Mr. Huo, didn't you say that you won't get married even if you kill yourself? You brat, get out of Huo's if you don't get married before the age of 26. Stop talking nonsense. I want the marriage partner you are looking for to arrive soon. Ms. Hong, wearing a floral skirt , I am here to get married , not to steal the marriage. Evacuate everyone, hurry up, hurry up, I'll leave too. Hey, Aunt Wang . Did he agree? He is willing to give 80,000 yuan as a gift. He asked to collect the witness directly. He is waiting for you at the Civil Affairs Bureau. You can just go directly. I'll be there soon. Who are you? Uh, but she needs surgery as soon as possible , otherwise her life will be jeopardized. The cost of the surgery is about 80,000. Grandma, I will definitely save you. Get out of the way. How long do you have to wait? I 'm sorry. How are you? How do you drive? You treat human life as a child's play, right? I'm sorry. I really didn't mean it. I'll pay you whatever you want . He is the marriage partner Zhang Ming found for me. No need to go in and get the certificate. Hey, wait a minute. I just bumped into you. It won't hurt. I'll give you my whole body. I'm the one who got the certificate with you . Let's go in quickly. You look good and have a good figure. Did you bring the money ? Isn't it 80,000 or 80,000 that was agreed upon for 3 million? Isn't it just a guy like you ? Three million is enough for me to marry 80 people. I'm a poor idiot and wasted my time. The 3 million in the card is the reward I promised you. Three million is not eight or eight million. It can't be 10 million. Go ahead. Don't be too greedy. Take the money and transfer it. I've got this card. Save your number. I'll contact you in one year for divorce. I'll see you at the Civil Affairs Bureau when the time comes . Hello, I'll come right over. I'll meet you at the Civil Affairs Bureau in half an hour. I'll get divorced. No problem. No problem. Why did you forget about this? Where is it? Grandma, have you seen my marriage certificate? Where is my marriage certificate? What are you looking for? Marriage certificate is a beggar . What is this? Isn't it a beggar? The marriage certificate is folded. Hey, it 's not a small red notebook . Marriage certificate. Hey hey . You told me earlier, what does he look like ? Grandma didn't know he was important, so I put him on the corner of the table. Is it broken? No, no, it's not broken. Grandma, don't worry. That's good, Mr. Huo. I have a meeting to attend later. I have to meet with my wife to make preparations. Mr. Huo is going on a date with Madam. Mr. Du has prepared all the gifts. Zhao Ming, now that we are getting divorced, we have to prepare these gifts for the woman. Or is our Huo Group planning to declare the divorce collectively? Isn't it the one-year anniversary? Then I'll ask them to get rid of all the gifts and bring them all over to give to them. Okay , I understand. Mr. Huo, Dr. George, just called to say that the old man suddenly stopped treatment. When you return home , remember to give the gift to Madam. Madam is a good person . The president has left beforehand. This is the gift he gave you. These are all mine. Yes, this cheap husband is quite generous. Hello, Ms. Song Shining. Congratulations on passing the design. We invite you to go to the Huo Group headquarters for an interview at 3 pm today. Do you have time? Do you? Put on makeup and attend the interview. Wait a moment. The elevator is overloaded. Please take another elevator. The old man is aware that it is overloaded. Click to go out. How can you push this old man? It 's you who came in. You are overweight. You want to go out. It's you who came out. You are worthy of letting me out. You know who I am . You know my relationship with Mr. Huo. I don't care who you are. Apologize to Grandpa quickly. This woman Are you blind? Even Sister Anna dares to criticize her. She is here for an interview. If you dare to offend Sister Anna, she will definitely fail. I'm too lazy to talk nonsense to people like you. Grandpa, are you okay? It's okay. Thank you. Little girl, it's okay. What's your name? Ah, Song Shining, you work at Huo's. Hi, I'm here for an interview . I'm optimistic about you. You will definitely pass. I'll let you know if I can lend you auspicious words. I don't know if I can meet Mr. Huo . How could Mr. Huo come to interview for a small role like ours ? If so, Just go into the secretarial department and maybe you'll have a chance to get in close contact with Mr. Huo. Song Shi, who are you? I came in to interview Mr. Huo. Our people didn't pick up the old man and Lao Zhai at the airport, and we didn't have the bad boy , grandpa, grandpa, you. Why haven't you recovered yet? How come you secretly returned to China? You still have the nerve to say that it's been a year and why haven't you brought your granddaughter-in-law to see me ? Are you not married at all? Didn't I show you this marriage certificate? I saw it before. Cover: You think you are a grandfather. I am confused. I don't care. I want to see my granddaughter- in-law. If I can't see her, I won't live. I 'm fine, fine. As long as you promise me to take good care of yourself, I'll take you to see my granddaughter- in-law right away . OK , I'll give you another month. By the way, there is a girl named Song Shining in your company today for an interview. You have to recruit her . Grandpa, our company recruits people based on their strength. Everyone comes to the company for interviews. This strength must be there. That girl named Song Shining is beautiful and has a kind heart . If you like her, I'll recruit him. Let's go. Grandpa , I'll send you back to rest. You don't need me to go back by myself. Song Shining, three interviewers. This is my resume. It's you. What a coincidence. You can get out. Why haven't you read my resume yet? I don't need to see your resume. A guy like you is not qualified to join the company and take your resume. Go away. Oh my God, Mr. Huo, are you a little bit ah? Didn't you deliberately target me because I offended you? I just targeted you. What's wrong? You just bullied the old man , you were wrong. If you do it again, I will do it again. The company has an interviewer like you. I can't die. Love never dies . What's so great about it? Why do you look so familiar ? Who is Song Shining ? I am a design major . Well, the design department is also Are you short of people? Mr. Huo, our design department already has no shortage of people. Join the secretarial department as an intern assistant. Zhao Min takes him through the onboarding process . Let's go . Well, this bitch seduces Mr. Huo as soon as he comes. Just wait for me. You are the new beauty in the company. What are you doing? How dare you fucking hit me? Are you harassing me? I , I, hit you lightly. Didn't you seduce Mr. Huo as soon as you came? What's wrong? I touched you twice. Why are you pretending to be a chaste and fierce woman here? Mr. Wang is not allowed to leave. What's wrong? Let me go. What's wrong? He's harassing me. Touch me , Mr. Huo, I didn't . It was him. He wanted to use me to get a higher position and deliberately seduce me. I don't know who recruited this kind of person with evil intentions. Mr. Huo, I suggest he be fired immediately. What did I recruit ? Mr. Huo, I'm sorry. I said I apologize , but you must believe me. It was really him who was seducing me just now. He was talking nonsense. Mr. Huo, I have been working hard in the company for so many years . You have to believe me. You can get out. If you don't hear me , get out quickly. It's not obvious that he is harassing me. Why should I fire me ? What I said is that he is not you . Hey, Mr. Huo, I know I was wrong. Mr. Huo, I have an 80-year-old mother and an unborn child. If you fire me, their whole family will have to drink northwest wind. Ah, Mr. Huo, I beg you , please give me another chance. Mr. Huo, Mr. Huo, thank you, Mr. Huo. Have I seen him somewhere? Zhang Ming , Mr. Huo, please bring my marriage certificate. Okay , yes, you found it for me a year ago. What's the name of the person you're getting married to? Zhou Xiaoyan , are you sure? It seems I misremembered Song Shining. I'll get you some information first. You can understand it . I, I, I. You can take these information back and understand them first. I'm sorry, Mr. Gu. Have you found it? Not yet. I remember I put it here before and suddenly it disappeared. Assistant Zhang, what are you looking for? Let me get you a piece of the marriage certificate . Oh, no need. Now go get a product ingredient list and ask Mr. Huo to sign the ingredient list . Stand up, Huo . I really know I was wrong this time. Please don't fire me. Hahahaha. I have a way to make you stay. Director An. Director An, you must help me this time. I don't want to be kicked out of Huo's. I can help you , but you have to Do something for me. Tell Song Shining to get out of the Huo family. Song Shining and I were fired by Mr. Huo all because of him. Don't worry, I will tell him to get out this time. Huo Yuxuan, I will drive away all the bad women who owe you. You can only be me, who let you in, Mr. Huo , I dropped an earring here. Do n't enter my office without my permission. Okay , what are you doing here ? And you are here to show off in front of Mr. Huo. I am here to deliver the ingredient list. What are you doing? If you dare to tamper with the ingredient list and add dogs to it, once it is put into production, the entire batch of products will not be produced. Are you trying to destroy me? I don't have it. I haven't touched this file. I just got it from the R&amp;D department. How dare you quibble? It's illegal to add this. Follow me to the human resources department. I won't go. I don't have it . Let me go. Let me go. What's going on? Mr. Huo and Song Shining tampered with the ingredient list privately to damage the company's reputation. I don't have it. I haven't touched the document. Stop lying before. Is the ingredient list sold to other companies by you ? Song Shining, do you have anything to explain? I swear I didn't touch it. I just followed Secretary Zhang's instructions to get a document. I haven't even read it. How could it be possible ? Come on, don't pretend to be here. Go to the human resources department and tell me. I told you, I don't have it. I won't go and let me go. I don't have enough. Did you go somewhere else on the way? The tea room. I went to the tea room. Maybe I was transferred there. You can go. Investigate the surveillance. Are you calling for a thief? Who doesn't know that the surveillance in the tea room has been broken a long time ago ? Director Huo's surveillance has been repaired long ago. It's actually him. Wasn't he fired ? Why is he still in the company? Go and bring He Zhen here . Let me go. Let me go. Why are you arresting me? You still argue that the surveillance has already done this. Why did you exchange documents to frame me ? You dare to lie in front of Mr. Huo. I advise you to think about it before talking to me . I just don't want to be reconciled . I want Song Shining to be expelled as well. Mr. Huo, I have no intention of harming the Huo family. You can keep it and talk to the police. Why don't you take him away quickly? Let me go. I will leave on my own. Song Shining, you were fired for not doing things well. Why are you doing this ? Didn't the investigation make it clear? I didn't do it. Did Mr. Huo find it? It was my negligence. I lost your marriage certificate. I don't know if the wife is still there. I checked a marriage certificate and you can get a divorce . I know. I have a marriage certificate and he is married. You go out, let's go , let me go. I'm sorry, mysterious husband. I have nothing to do with you. Please don't mistake me for your husband . It's not you who misunderstood me. I'm going out, Mr. Huo. Everything has been out. I've already investigated it clearly. No , sorry , I had something to do this morning and left early. Are you crying? No , did you call me to mention the divorce? I want to postpone the divorce for a month. I think you can ask me back as my wife. When I see you at home, don't worry, I will replenish you this month's money. No need. The money you gave me last time saved the life of my only relative in the world. You are now my benefactor. You can't take it back. Don't worry, I'm good at coaxing you. I will put the divorce matter on the agenda as soon as possible for the old man to be happy Oh, by the way, I accidentally lost my marriage certificate. Is yours still there? Yours was also lost. I also lost yours. I lost your marriage certificate. Just now, Secretary Zhang said that Mr. Huo's marriage certificate was also lost. How could it be such a coincidence that it was lost ? Your marriage certificate was also lost. If so , it would be troublesome. It 's okay. Today I have a colleague who also lost his marriage certificate. What am I thinking about? How could the mysterious husband be Mr. Huo? Are you ? Have you encountered any difficulties? Well, I just heard you crying. Although I don't want to get married, if you have any difficulties, just tell me. I will keep it for you. Mr. Huo and Mr. Zhao. They are already here. Mr. Zhao, I'm fine. Just call me. I just got fired from the company before the phone call . I lost my temper for a while. I don't need to go to work at your company. Don't worry. Boss Li fired you because he was indeed blind. Yes, he was indeed blind. As expected, he can't speak ill of people behind their backs. Cao Cao, Cao Cao, I'll have something to do later. Hang up first and contact me via text message for the next thing . Song Shining, you are Mr. Huo's assistant. Do you know who Mr. Huo's mysterious lady is? Hey, I originally thought Mr. Huo was a prime bachelor, but I didn't expect him to be married. It's not his turn if Mr. Huo is not married. Fuck you. Hey, I heard that Mr. Huo plans to divorce this mysterious lady. Is it true? It seems like this is happening . Then I still have a chance to be free, right? Pack your things and leave the company immediately. Don't you know what's going on? Hey, Zhang Li, do you know Mr. Huo's itinerary? Mr. Huo's itinerary is kept confidential. Only Sister Anna and Secretary Zhang know about it. Do you know who Mr. Huo is negotiating with today? It should be Mr. Zhao from Tianyu Group. Hey , where are you going ? Why did you give me the medicine ? How did you know my whereabouts? I investigated it. I found out that the person we are cooperating with this time is Mr. Zhao of Tianyu Group. He likes this restaurant the most. If we talk about cooperation, he will definitely choose you. What I need most now is hangover medicine . What's your purpose in approaching me? I just want to prove that I can be a good assistant . The one who did the wrong thing is obviously He Zheng. Why should I be fired ? I won't explain you to an idiot. Song Shining is sorry to me. I didn't mean to do it on purpose. I'll wipe the report for you . I'd better go out first. Zhang Ming, please come back and report. How long are you going to sit on my lap? My feet slipped and got out of the way. I really want to know the reason. OK, I'll tell you why. As a The assistant file has been transferred and I didn't even know that you are not only careless but also have no sense of responsibility at all. Do you dare to make a bet with me? Give me a month. If I can be a competent assistant, you will let me stay. How come the designer in the design department is your girl named Song Shining? She is beautiful and kind-hearted. I like her. Forget it . For grandpa's sake, give her another chance . I'll give you a month, but if you can't do it, I'll give you the money. Half a year's salary is fine. Give me a deposit. Why does this card look so familiar ? I'm kidding you. I don't even care about your little money in a month. If you do well, stay here. If you don't do well, get out. Then I'll go to work tomorrow. Idiot, I'll see Anna tomorrow. Good morning, sister. Good morning, sister Na. Good morning, sister Na. Good morning, sister Na. Good morning, sister Na. Song Shining, weren't you fired by Mr. Huo? Mr. Huo's discerning eyes kept me here again . How are you? Are you angry? Oh, Huo Yuxuan fired it for him again. Madam Privilege Mystery hasn't found out yet another bitch, Sister Anna. I have a piece of paper here, Mr. Huo. Mr. Huo, your coffee doesn't have milk, sugar or ice, right? Leave it there. If you have anything else, don't you want to taste it? Come on out. Oh, that's not bad . What do you want to do ? Song Shining, Mr. Huo's mysterious lady can't be you. Are you crazy? How could Mr. Huo's mysterious lady be me? It's better not to be you. Otherwise, I'm crazy. I'll be there soon. Song Shining, I already got the money for what you want. It's Huo Yuxuan's mysterious wife who asked you to check , not this bitch. Go check it out for me again. The stinky woman promised me to go back to the company and wants to hit me. Come on, hit me here. Song Shining, he is our common enemy. Only he left me. In order to get you back, Song Shining, what are you going to do next ? Hahahahaha, okay this time I will torture you well. What you think about Mr. Huo's divorce from the CEO's wife has nothing to do with me. You don't like Mr. Huo. If you like Mr. Huo, just do it. Go and chase me. Don't stare at me all day long. If you don't like Mr. Huo, why are you pestering Mr. Huo all the time? Because I want to join the design department and you don't agree. Let's talk about it. I 'm already married. When did you get married? It says on the resume , so can you please stop targeting me? Huo Yuxuan will never like a married woman. It's more important to find that mysterious lady first. Okay, by the way, you go to Hongteng International to pick up Mr. He, Mr. He, um, Mr. He. But you have to receive the important customers of the company well. I'm going to go now. People are already gone. Are you ready ? Song Shili, is he very good? I went without permission during work. I want to see what you are doing. Mr. He , are you awake? I 'm here to pick you up, Mr. He. Don't cry. Don't cry. Don't come here . Don't come over and open the door . Go to the front desk and get the room card . Mr. Huo and Song Shining. I know you are in there . Mr. Huo, why are you here? Su Shining , look at what you look like . What's wrong with you ? It seems, hahaha, it's all because you're not humming this, Suning, Suning , please calm down , lower the air conditioner to 16 degrees Mr. Hu, um , hey, hey, hey, he must have been drugged. I will send him to the hospital. Please check who is in this room. The vice president is awake. Why am I in the hospital ? If I don't send you to the hospital, can you? Eat me up. Song Shining didn't expect that you look so good and playful. What do you mean? You smell so good. What have I done ? Oh, boss . Yesterday, he made a bet with me that he would turn around and go out to book a room with someone during work. I didn't. I went to pick up Mr. He. Mr. He. Mr. He. How come I don't remember one of our company's clients named Mr. He? You're pretty good at making it up. I didn't make it up. Why is there a pervert in the room? I made a mistake in the room. Who asked you to go? See this Mr. He , Anna , Zhang Ming asked Anna to come to the hospital to see me, why are you a waste ? He doesn't blame me , Director An, Mr. Huo, for asking you to go to the hospital to see him. Mr. Huo is a little too dry. Pass that to me. Are you ready ? Your hands are too dirty. Come on , don't cry. You seem to like this very much . Because our company's products are easy to use. Don't think that if you praise me a few times, I will make you a regular person. Stingy Mr. Huo, Ren Dayu, Mr. Huo, you are the one who came to me. You asked Song Shining to go. Does Hongteng International 206 pick up customers? It seems that there is such a thing. Why haven't I heard that one of the company's customers is named Mr. He ? I remember that the one I asked him to pick up was Mr. He. No, I'm going to be arrested again. Is it true that he was fired ? Why isn't Mr. He in the room? What's in there is a pervert who asked you to check. Mr. Huo's registration information at the front desk shows He Zheng. This is impossible. I'll call Mr. He now. What? Nini already CEO is gone , I don't know. Mr. He has already left. The person I asked Secretary Song to pick up turned out to be that He Zheng bitch. You can leave. Ning Ning, grandma, why are you here? This is the grandma in the red book. Why are you here? Are you feeling uncomfortable? I'm fine. The medicine is gone. I'll come to the hospital. Please give me some medicine. Young man, you are Ningning's husband, Commander Song. You told your family that I am your wife , not my grandma. You misunderstood. I misunderstood . Isn't it just your red one ? In the book, that 's not my boss , not my old boss . That's because I remembered it wrong . Hey, grandma, she's older. I made a mistake . Su Shining, come here . Boss , let me declare to you first that I don't like you , I can't like you, and I won't accept the office. Love, I don't care how you brag to others. Please explain it clearly to others. Otherwise, you will only be embarrassed because you are crazy. Who will like you? For no reason, grandma went to change clothes and go home. Oh, why are these clothes exactly the same as those of my mysterious husband ? They are the same clothes. My husband next to me looks much more handsome than him. Newcomer , do you know why Mr. Huo sent He Zhen to Dragon City to pick up Mr. He? Hasn't He Zhen been fired? He was specially recruited by the company to go to Dragon City. After this, he But he is no longer the majestic manager He used to be. Now he is working exclusively with Mr. He in Longcheng. Isn't it difficult for him to deal with him? You just came here and you don't know that Mr. He likes extreme sports the most. In the past, the company picked the boldest ones from the secretarial department. Talk to him . He Zhen, a pervert who is usually the most timid, will have to pee his pants every day. Who deserves it ? Who made him touch his female colleagues all the time? Make a cup of coffee and deliver it to my office. Mr. Jing Huo's coffee is yours . Why don't you just keep a record of how much you like me? Why do n't you give up after I explained it to him yesterday? Free Meat , he just refused to say that he has someone he likes when he meets a bad girl. It's really not possible. He said that he likes men , Mr. Song, well, it turns out that I actually have someone I like among you . Mr. Huo will definitely think that I am very dedicated after reading this book. It seems useless to smile so brightly. You and me , can you restrain yourself ? It's so obvious, oh, oh , oh, oh, oh, oh , oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh , oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh , what 's wrong? Why is my heart beating so fast ? I like men. Why is he telling me this? Could it be that I have become his confidant? But Mr. Huo has my wife . Haha, this is their divorce. The reason is oh hahaha, Mr. Huo, don't worry , I will defend your secret to the death. Mr. Huo is not right. He obviously likes me. Why should I hide two people and come with me to have dinner with Mr. Zhou of Hengtong Group? Anna, you are with me and you are with me. Let's have Mr. Huo's coffee together . How long has it been since he came to discuss things with Mr. Huo? Who knows if he used some unsavory means to seduce Mr. Huo? Doesn't Mr. Huo have a wife? He is going to be a mistress, huh, Anna. Sister is still here. Song Shining, please wait for me, Mr. Zhou. Mr. Huo, long time no see. Can you Thank you. What did he just order? Replace the Longjing shrimp with braised peanuts and Moutai with beer. Okay. Mr. Zhou is allergic to peanuts. Song Shining. Let me see how you ended up ordering beer. I ordered white. I will deal with it right away. Mr. Huo, what do you mean ? You knew I was allergic to peanuts and you ordered so many peanuts. Song Shining. How did you order? Don't you know that Mr. Zhou is allergic to peanuts? It's not me. I don't think Huo's wants to cooperate with you. It doesn't matter if you don't sign this contract . Mr. Zhou is a new intern and is ignorant . I'll ask someone to give it to you right away. Can you please withdraw it ? Sorry, I'm sorry. The wrong dish was served. The wrong dish was served. What happened? I have to withdraw it. Li Jinsuo, the dishes are here. Everyone, please use Jinsuo. Let's stop here today. We'll talk about the contract later . My wife 's anniversary gift, I will go back early. Mr. Huo, did you prepare your wife's gift? She likes me very much. Can you bring her a little more ? Mr. Zhou, I know that you and your wife have a deep love for each other , so I gave her a set as a gift. You can also take it back. Since my wife believes in your company's products so much, I am willing to cooperate with them. If you like it, Good Mr. Zhou, I salute you. Mr. Zhou wishes us a happy cooperation . Mr. Guo, I'm leaving first. Happy cooperation. Happy cooperation. Be careful on the way. Mr. Zhou, Lan Da. What's going on with you today ? You exposed the company's shortcomings in front of the customers. It's not me , Mr. Huo. I 'm really just worried . You don't need to talk. Go back and write a 1,000-word review and give it to Zhao Ming. How did you do it ? Come here and I'll tell you. Idiot. Hey, hey. You 're crazy. Your skin is itchy. Are you stupid ? You have a free gift . You can't drink well and you still drink like this. Mr. Huo , why don't you go back to the villa? Why don't you go back first ? Su Zhining, wake up. Where do you live? Where is your home? Where is your home? I'm sorry . There is a wild cat in my account. Feed Ningning. Why haven't you come back yet? Old man, I am Song Shining. The boss is drunk. Please give me your address. I'll take him back . Oh, Ningning. What's wrong with Ningning? Oh , grandma, please show me the way. Go, walk, move forward . Oh, marriage certificate. Song Sining is married. Young man, come on. Thank you for your hard work . Grandma Song Shining got married . Yes , Ning Ning said it was a flash marriage. Hey, it's her husband. After getting married, he hasn't been back for a year . Look at this man. Why can't you see his face clearly? Hey, I Yeah, I used it to pad the table leg. Hey, I'm going back first. You 're already married. Why do you say you like me? You walk slowly. Mr. Huo walks with a warm face and a cold butt. Some people think they are infinitely charming and laugh to death. Song Shining Huo Mr. Huo , you have to misunderstand that Mr. Huo and I have nothing. I think Mr. Huo is very special to you. I swear that Mr. Huo and I are completely innocent. There is absolutely no way that we have anything. You are quite self-aware, Mo. This is Mr. Wang's information. In three days, you will be responsible for the docking and completion of this order. I will make you a regular employee and ensure that you complete the task. Don't laugh. You are already married. Why are you still smiling at me? Is there a relationship between the two? Yes, you know. Don't laugh. I'll make you some coffee. No need Anna. You're responsible for my coffee from now on. Mr. Huo is your coffee. Mr. Huo, Mr. Huo. I have a document for you to sign. Mr. Huo drank too much and was resting at the Champs Elysees Hotel . Song Shining It has passed. I will take Mr. Huo's mobile phone to send a message to Mr. Huo's wife in a while. As soon as she arrives, you will take her to catch the rapist. Remember, you must let Song Shining and Mrs. meet before Mr. Huo's medicine takes effect . Say the above. The divorce process between Mr. Huo and his wife will be accelerated , and he will not only be accused of being a mistress, but will also be scorned by Mr. Huo. Hahaha Song Shining, Song Shining, just wait to be caught and raped by your original wife. What is different about the Mid-Autumn Festival ? Open the door , haha . Su Shilin, what's wrong with you ? Why did you get a fever? Send him to the hospital. Why did you say that Mrs. Huo didn't go ? Then Huo Yuxuan and Song Shining, um, ah, ah , ah , I actually slept with Mr. Huo . Does that count as cheating? Mr. Huo was in such a state yesterday. It seems like I was drugged. Yes, a woman sent me a message last night, but 506 is obviously Mr. Huo. Could it be that Mr. Huo is my mysterious husband? Is it just a phone call to find out? Feed the woman's voice. Hello, this is my husband's mobile phone. Why is it at your place? Because your husband is in my bed. Mrs. Huo will definitely not be able to bear it now and will definitely speed up the process of divorcing Mr. Huo . Fortunately , it seems that Mr. Huo and Mysterious husband are not the same person. It scares me to death that Mysterious and I are My husband said so many bad things about Mr. Huo. As long as it's the same person, I'll die. Just sleep, sleep, sleep . You're disturbing me. Why is my phone here ? Mr. Huo, where did you go yesterday ? I can't get through . I was drugged. What happened? Find out who did it well. I'll go right away . Song Shining, why didn't you see me at the company? He said he wasn't feeling well , so he asked for leave. He wasn't feeling well, Mr. Huo, where are you going? After thinking about it, I still need to tell you that there was someone yesterday. A woman called me and said you were cheating. I won't tell you for now. Someone is coming to my house . You are the boss who sent Ning Ning back last time. Hahaha. I heard that he is not feeling well. I came over to see who it is, big boss. Why did you come to my house? Hey , kid, you told me to come in first. Come on , come and eat the fruit. Thank you, grandma. How old are you this year ? Are you married? I am 26 this year. I am already married. I am married. Look at your appearance. You are a perfect match for our Ning Ning. Oh, it's a pity that I'm married. To be honest, grandma said that I'm getting divorced. Divorce , hey, divorce is good. Look at Ning Ning's husband. He hasn't come back since they were married for a year. He's not a good person. Sooner or later, I'll ask Ning Ning to divorce him. Look, you and Ning Ning are together. Not bad . Hey, it turns out that Song Shining's husband is not good to her. Then I should be more responsible for her. Grandma, don't say it anymore. Don't say it. Hey, you guys talk, you talk, what's wrong with you? I heard that you are not feeling well. Was it Dazhu yesterday? What happened yesterday was just an accident. I know you were drugged to act like this. Let's just pretend that nothing happened, okay? I will be responsible for you. Are you responsible for cheating on me? I will get a divorce . No, I'm fine. You go. You 're not feeling well. I want to stay and take care of you. I'm going to call my husband in a while. Do you want to listen ? I'm not making a video call and you can't see anyone . It's okay. I can listen. We're going to have some very intimate words in a while. You have to listen . Isn't her husband treating her badly? Could it be that they are actually very affectionate ? OK, you have to listen. Let me listen to you . No, you need to have a good rest. You are so concerned about my private life . How can you fall in love with me? You said that someone used my mobile phone to send you cheating messages. But there is no record on my mobile phone. I should have deleted it. I will call you later. It was a woman who picked me up in the past. She said you were in her bed. He was quite arrogant. He ran to declare his sovereignty to my first wife. Do you mind if I am in love with someone else? Of course you don't mind. We are a fake marriage to begin with. Besides, you should have Do you mind about your own life and love ? Senior sister , I also had a relationship with someone else yesterday. As you said, we were in a fake marriage. I won't interfere in your life , let alone mind you being with someone else. That's fine . Let me gossip. Is that girl the one you like? Well, I'm not sure , but he likes me very much , so we need to divorce as soon as possible . Okay, then you can make an appointment and we will meet in 7 days to get divorced. Oh , I will be single in 7 days. So it was really Mr. Huo's sweetheart who was declaring sovereignty to me yesterday. She just sent her to the wrong room and collided with Mr. Huo. Hey, when are you going to pick up Mr. Song Shining's project ? Mr. Huo knows this . You said you know who the mistress who cheated on my husband is. I also know that they are going to have a private meeting tomorrow . I will send you tomorrow's address. If you go and take a look, you will know how dare you seduce my husband and steal him. The skin tore his mouth . Where are the others? You didn't ask him to receive Mr. Wang. Then I didn't let him go today. Is he hiding from me ? Give me the address. I'll go find him. Mr. Wang heard that you are very knowledgeable about coffee. I don't know about this company. What do you think? Well , it's not bad. I'm interested in the project. I also understand everything about the project . Let's go sign the contract. OK, Mr. Wang, do you think there are any other problems with this contract? You little bitch dares to seduce my husband. Dad, you misunderstood. We are talking about work. Shut up. Don't think you are so petty. I don't know you two. I saw both of you just now. Mrs. Wang, you misunderstood that I am an employee of Huo's and you dare to quibble. I have to teach you a lesson today. Don't come here. Ah, everyone, come here and see this fox seduces my husband to be a mistress. Don't you like being a mistress? Come on, let me perform for everyone. If I don't have you, don't hold me back . Who are you? Why do you mind your own business? Why do you want a hero to save a beauty? Shut up. Mr. Huo, why are you here? You don't have to do anything for this small project. Why don't you do it yourself ? Mr. Huo, I'm warning you. Don't stop me and hit the mistress. Shut up. You want to kill me? Mr. Huo, let's sign the contract now. It 's really no problem if you can sign it. If you let this shrew bully me, Huo's employees, you don't have to cooperate anymore. And starting from today, Huo's will impose a commercial blockade on your Wang family. Mr. Huo is just a small employee. We won't do it. Big deal. Let's pay him money and don't hurt us. Let's wait for bankruptcy in harmony. It's a joke. I, the Wang family, have a great business. Isn't it just a daydream of bankruptcy when you say bankruptcy? It's okay. Cooperation is important. You are more important than cooperation. Song Shining, you are my employee of Huo Weixuan. You don't need to compromise. I will do it. Why are we supporting you ? Why is our capital chain broken ? Mr. Huo, Mr. Huo , Mr. Huo , I was blind just now. Please forgive me. Hey, Mr. Huo, Mr. Huo, you said you , you provoke them well. Everything is your fault. Who told you? Don't move if you are stealing food outside. I'm sorry . I'm sorry . I ca n't be rehabilitated. Who said that? You passed the test and you asked me to be rehabilitated. Is it because you have to be responsible for me ? You idiot , you are overthinking. Just because you passed my test doesn't mean that. You can be promoted to the design department. If you want to go to the design department, you have to pass the test of the design department . But Anna doesn't like me. Can she let me pass? Well, I will set up a test tomorrow. As long as you can pass it, I will agree to your promotion. Well done to the design department. You guys have something to announce. The R&amp;D team has optimized and upgraded the Kafuzhe essential oil that our company mainly promotes. Currently, it still needs the design of the outer packaging. After the company has discussed and decided to hold a design competition within the company, will only people from the design department participate? This product appearance design competition has no department time limit of 3 days. The winner can make a request to me. Is it really such a big deal? How about winning ? Can you join the design department after you graduate? Of course, the premise is that you can win against Song Shining. You know what design is, so you dare to talk so shamelessly. You have the nerve to say it without looking at how much you weigh. You don't have to worry about it. I 'll see you in three days. By the way, Sister Anna , I asked about Song Sining, who won many awards in design competitions when he was in school. If he really wants to win , where should I put the face of the design department? I have my own way . I finally finished it. I will optimize it tomorrow and call it a day. Song Ten years and so on. After I win the game, I will drive you out of Firestone and send you home. Thank you, Mr. Huo, for not sleeping well. I think Mr. Huo, please go back first. I will revise the draft and come back so late. This is my design for the second generation product. The overall appearance of the picture is mainly pure white. Pure and minimalist , it means that we attach great importance to the formula and the product itself. Isn't this my first version of the design? Wow, what else can I compare? I think I can just declare Sister Anna the winner. Yes, this is mine. Design drawing Song Shining, please have some respect. This is the work I worked on for three days and nights. You want to rob my work just because you are the president's secretary? Song Shining, like you who stole the cancer of the design industry, should get out of Huo's and me. Agree to drive Song Shining out of the Huo family. Shut your mouth. Song Shiding, do you have any evidence that this design is yours ? This is my first version of the design. It is mainly white, pure and minimalist. The new martial arts master is just like our product itself . Hazardous substances , choose natural ingredients. You think you have something nice to say, this design is yours. I thought again that women's skin care is made of water , so they should start with hydration . Our second-generation product has better moisturizing effect, and the texture is clear and moist, so I put it It was changed to transparent and the design of water ripples was added. It seems that it is indeed better designed by Song Shining. Fart, it is obviously better designed by Sister Anna. The bitch actually secretly designed the second version behind my back. Who loses and who wins . I believe in everyone's hearts. You have your own conclusion . Song Shining, you have been promoted to a regular position. From tomorrow on, you will be the new designer of the design department. Thank you, Mr. Huo, everyone. Next , I will announce an appointment. Based on the respective performances of Anna and Song Shining, the company decided at the meeting that Song Shining will serve as the second team member of the design department. Long-term follow-up on new product development . Anna, the former director of the design department, was demoted to the leader of the third group of the design department. Everyone applauds and encourages me. I really want to give you 1 billion. What are you so proud of? Isn't it just by seducing men to get to the top? I had an affair with Mr. Wang before. Mr. Wang's wife caught him fooling around and beat him up . Song Shining, you have to climb on the bed and show off to be on an equal footing with me. What are you so proud of? Hey, I've recorded everything you just said. Mr. Huo hates people who gossip the most. If this person is beaten by him, Seeing that you all have to be expelled, you sister Anna, look at him giving you a chance to apologize to me. 32 I'm sorry , sorry , and what are you sorry for? I can't hear clearly. I'm sorry, so you're being good. I'm going to Licheng on a business trip tomorrow. Song Shining, please prepare to follow me. Let 's go together , Mr. Huo, didn't he always take Sister Anna with him on business trips before? Why bring Song Shining this time? Song Shining, stop, what have you done? Why did you choose you over me? Of course it's because I'm better than you. Huh, fart. It's clearly because of you and Mr. Huo. How do you know that you gave me Mr. Huo's position that day ? It was you who gave Mr. Huo the medicine. What nonsense are you talking about? I have an acquaintance there. What did he see with his own eyes? What acquaintance ? Is the waiter who locked me in the room? What waiter am I? I have no idea what you are talking about. Why don't you accuse me unjustly? Mr. Huo's resignation documents are all ready. The person who drugged you last time was found. But there should be another person behind him. Could it be Anna? She sent me the location of the hotel, and she seems to know what happened to us . Mr. Huo, your coffee is ready. I will check this matter. You go pack your things first. My little beauty brother, let me show you a baby. Damn this pervert . Ah, hahaha, beauty, stop him, don't let him run away. What do you want to do ? Hey, ah, hahaha, do n't move . Do you like it? If you like it, I'll give it to you as my wife. You can do whatever you want with it. Ah , ah, stop it. Don't kill him and leave. Just let them say that. Okay, let's make money together. I told you not to touch Huo Yuxuan . Next time, I'll kill you. Does it hurt? I'll blow it for you. I feel better for the last time. That 's okay. Thank you yesterday. You are my employee. I protect you. Should they only be employees? Mr. Huo, I heard from Song Shuning that you were attacked. Are you okay? If I can stand in front of you if something happens, I will provide you with bodyguards. Do you really want to live a two-person world with Song Shining ? What are you talking about? Don't you like Song Shining? You like me. What does it mean that I like you ? You liked me first. When did I like you? Then you told your grandma that I am your husband and recorded all my preferences in a notebook. This is not what I like. That's because my grandma admitted her mistake. And all the work information was recorded in my little notebook. Not only did I remember yours, I also remembered Mr. Wang, Mr. Zhang, and Mr. Li. Don't you like men? That's what I did for Do I need you to reject me if I reject what you want to say? Narcissism. How dare you say you don't like me ? Whatever you think, I obviously like me . I still don't admit Mr. Huo . Do you like her? Of course I don't. I like someone who is gentle and considerate, not her who chirps all day long. Huo always feels that the prerequisite for him to like you is that you have fallen in love with someone else first, so it is obvious that you like Song Shining. What you mean is that I have an unrequited love for Song Shili. Dare you tell me about it ? You're dead. I brought you two some food. Let's eat some first. Isn't this one of the gifts Mr. Huo asked me to prepare for my wife that day? Is there anything wrong with this? My husband gave it to me. It seems like your husband isn't that good either. The bracelet I gave you seems to be a lie. Mr. Huo, this bracelet is very expensive. When you asked me to choose a gift for my wife, this bracelet was among the gifts. Mr. Huo, you don't even know what you gave your wife. Sure enough, men are all big pigs. Hooves, what's wrong with Mr. Huo ? What are you talking about? You clearly know that I like Song Shining , but what did you tell him about Madam's gift? If it's not enough, it will lead to failure. But you and Madam are in a fake marriage. Besides, they're about to get divorced. But he doesn't know. Then what about me? Go and explain to him. You don't need to tell him that I will find time to tell him. The day after tomorrow is her birthday. Prepare a decent birthday gift. It must be better than the broken bracelet that her broken husband gave her. Wait, forget it. I can't see well when I wear those broken glasses. I choose this situation myself. What are you pretending to do? You still don't know that this is the birthday gift Mr. Huo bought for you. Is he showing off? Some people use dishonorable means to steal it. He took Sister Anna's position and resorted to tricks to get Mr. Huo to give such an expensive gift. I think it was probably him who had a hand in Mr. Huo's divorce . Huo Yuxuan deliberately harmed me, right? You are so good at gossiping, why don't you chew it in front of Mr. Huo ? Let me reiterate that these are gifts given by Mr. Huo to Madam and have nothing to do with me. Mr. Huo is about to divorce Madam. How could Mr. Huo still buy so many gifts for him ? Is he guilty of making excuses? Mr. Huo and Madam are doing this for her. After the divorce , she will not be Huo's future boss lady. I have a bold guess. Is it possible that Song Shining is Mr. Huo's mysterious wife ? Impossible. What are you thinking? Song Shining is worthy of her. This is my husband's phone number. Why is it in your hand ? Because Your husband 's voice on the phone on my bed is indeed very similar to Song Shining's voice. I arranged for Mrs. Huo to catch Song Shining, but Mrs. Huo didn't show up. If Song Shining is Mrs. Huo , then everything makes sense . Okay , then I'll try again. Let me see. Let's see if you are a blessing or not. Mr. Huo , the gifts on my table were placed by you. Isn't it much better than the broken bracelet your broken husband gave you? I'm telling you , I carefully selected these gifts. I don't want to take them. Why don't you go back ? It's because you don't like it. If you don't like it, I'll buy it for you again. What do you want to do? I said I like you. Don't you have any intention? You seem like ah, stop liking it. Maybe, but I can't be the one who destroys other people's families. Mr. Huo, you have a wife. I also have a husband. We are not just men and women. It is better to keep a distance. As for the gift , give it to your wife. If you give a gift and the person you like rejects it, he will be wronged. I will give the gift to you and him. He's obviously jealous. Did you tell him that we had a fake marriage? I don't know what to say . Oh, by the way, if you want those gifts, come to the store. But you gave me enough last time. Why do you have the nerve to accept them again ? Besides, this It's your intention for him . Wait, how could I be so lucky? What are you doing here sneaking around? What are you doing? I'm doing what you want. I'm talking to my wife and asking Nuan what's wrong with the stingy guy ? What 's going on ? I hung up the phone suddenly . I haven't been criticized by the stingy boss. It seems that every time I chat with you, you will mention him. If you really hate him, come to work in my company. In fact, it's not that annoying . Then you like him . Maybe a little bit. It seems. We all fall in love with someone we shouldn't like. I'm leaving. I'm still a bit hung up here. Mr. Huo, the leaves of the fortune tree you bought at a high price are about to be bald by Song Shining. Song Shining is looking forward to meeting you. I'll know Huo in a while. Madam General Mystery, is it Song Shi or not? Did we make an appointment to get divorced in 7 days? It's only been 3 days and you 're so anxious. You asked me to meet at a coffee shop. Let's meet and chat directly. Hello, hello. There was someone at the door . There was a lady on the phone at the door. If it's not you who made an appointment, then who is that little lover last time ? We will meet at No. 6 Qingyang Road in three days. You will accompany me to see grandpa first. After explaining the situation to grandpa , we will go to the Civil Affairs Bureau to apply for divorce. Then we will meet in three days . I'm very curious about what this little lover looks like. I'll go take a look . I'm still very curious about what this little lover looks like . Let me go and see if it's okay. I was beaten as a mistress last time. That's enough. Let him run away next time. Hey , there are three more. I'm going to be single again. Ning Ning, what's wrong? Grandma, I see the boss who sent you here last time is downstairs. Does he have something to do with you? The goods are stored downstairs. Grandma, please go back to the house first. I'll go down and take a look. Oh , what are you doing here? How do you know I'm here ? Nonsense. My grandma saw it downstairs. What's the matter with you coming to me ? Song Shining , I like you. I know you like me too. Why can't we be together? Because we are both married. I can't be a mistress who destroys other people's families. You didn't destroy my family. I got married in a fake way. I found a marriage partner to deal with my grandfather inheriting the family. We only met on the day we got the certificate. I don't even remember what he looked like. Why is the fake marriage so similar to my experience? Give me three days, okay? I must complete the wedding with him , not you. Wait a minute . This is a bit unbelievable now. I also had a fake marriage with my husband. I also had a fake marriage with my husband. Is your name Zhou Xiaoyan? Have you changed your name before? I haven't changed my name. I've always been called Song Shining . At least now I know that we are all in a fake marriage. Let's get together after we are both divorced. What happened to you when the sun hits the west ? Mr. Huo, the last time you asked me to check on Xia Yao, it was indeed Anna. Why call her to my office ? Mr. Huo, you asked me to drug me. It was you who did it, right? Not me. I didn't. Is that bitch Song Shining talking nonsense in front of you? I didn't call you here to listen to you. You are so quibbling, you have been fired , pack your things and leave immediately, Mr. Huo. I have been with you for so many years, and I have no credit but hard work. You want to drive me away now because of Song Shi. I will not hold you responsible. Already enough to give you face , or say you want me. I'll hold you accountable . I'll find a lawyer to help me draft a divorce agreement tomorrow . I'll be officially divorced in two days. Mr. Huo, do you plan to be with Song Shining after the divorce? He and I are in a fake marriage. We agreed that we will divorce each other. We are officially together. Mr. Huo and Mrs. Huo are in a fake marriage. No wonder they don't care about Mr. Huo. We must stop Mr. Huo and Song Shining from being together. What are you doing here? Secretary Zhang, please help me, please Mr. Huo. I am really just confused about this. Let me help. If I can't help you , you should pack your things and leave the company. Why are you so proud? I'll be the first one to drive you away when Mr. Huo and I get together. What are you looking for ? I can't pick up a pen. It won't be a marriage certificate, right? It 's Mr. Huo's marriage certificate. This is I don't believe my stuff . Why should I show it to you? It's my personal belongings. It seems that Mr. Huo and Song Shining don't know who they are marrying. If Mr. Huo knows that Song Shining is his wife, no, they must not let her. They knew but they didn't behave and said they were looking for a pen. But they found a marriage certificate and refused to let me see it. They insisted on seeing what you were doing and scared me. This is the marriage certificate that Anna just found. He said it was his own, but I think it might be. Don't you know that it makes sense after reading your book ? Ms. Song, what are you doing ? Why is it empty ? Song Shining , it's so disrespectful for you to touch my things so casually. I thought this was Mr. Huo's marriage certificate , but why is it empty? This is me. My friend's discarded marriage certificate is of course empty . Sorry, I misunderstood you. You are too young to fight with me. Song Shining and Huo Yuxin. That can only be because I can't let you be together. They will get divorced the day after tomorrow. They will definitely see each other and then the secret will be revealed. Ms. Han found out that Mr. Huo had found a fake marriage partner named Zhou Xiaoyan , but he didn't know what happened at the time. Mr. Huo did not get the certificate with Zhou Xiaoyan. This is Zhou Xiaoyan's photo. Ms. An, are you satisfied with this information? Very satisfied. Thank you, Ms. An. Next. This is the first time you have a job. Come to me. Zhou Xiaoyan is the one who comes to me. Let me declare in advance that I will not accept jobs that are less than 100,000 yuan. There is 1 million yuan in this card. Please help me do something. Ning Ning, you are dressed so beautifully. Go on a date. It's not a date, it's a divorce. Grandma is getting divorced. Oh , after divorce, bring your boss back . Hum, grandma, I like him very much. I will try my best not to wait for me to eat at night. Oh, be careful on the road. Yeah , fuck forever . Song Shining , Song Shining's husband, who are you? I am Zhou Xiaoyan . My wife, didn't we make an appointment to meet here today? She is Mr. Huo's wife. Why are you different from my impression? Maybe it's because of a little cosmetic surgery. You are the mistress waiting for me to divorce my husband so that I can get a better position. You are so shameless. Zhou Xiaoyan , please keep your mouth clean. We are in a fake marriage. Today is the second time we have met. I have no feelings for you. You misunderstood. Mr. Huo and I are just employees and bosses. We just happened to pass by today. So please stay away. I'm watching. I'm an eyesore and I have something else to do . Please talk to me first. Master, please don't go. His words and deeds are completely different from what we chatted on the phone. You are completely different from the person on the phone. Are you Zhou Xiaoyan? This is the person with my ID card. He is always fickle . What 's more, it's a woman who needs to make a quick decision. Sorry, why did you hang up ? We made an appointment at 10 o'clock. What's going to happen? What 's wrong? You broke my phone. The phone isn't broken. How could you identify the wrong person? It's just a phone. It's not like you can't afford it and leave. Let's go to dinner. I need to fix my phone first . How long will it take to fix it ? I 'll bring it to you after it's fixed. I 'll be cleaning it inside. Okay , I don't want this phone to be repaired. You know what I mean. I'm sorry. The number you dialed can't be answered at the moment. Please call me later. Sorry , slow good. This is the divorce agreement I proposed. Sign it. As of today, we have a one-year fake marriage. I don't, I don't, Zhou Xiaoyan. What on earth are you going to do? I don't want a divorce. Didn't we all agree ? Can you regret it? Didn't you say that you also have someone you like? I lied to you. I only like money. Didn't you divorce me just to be with Song Shining? I won't divorce you. I won't get a penny. I will give you extra. 10 million compensation is not enough . I want 100 million . It is impossible that your dignified Huo Group can't come up with 100 million. Before I met you, I thought you were a smart woman . I didn't expect you to have such an attitude. I tell you that you can get married even if you don't divorce. If you keep pestering me like this , don't even think about what's going on. Is this grandpa having a quarrel ? Grandpa, you are here. I am Zhou Xiaoyan. I am your granddaughter- in-law. She is so beautiful and generous. This brat has never let me see you . Grandpa, the first time I saw you, I thought you had such a temperament. I said, who does Yuxuan look like when he is so handsome? It turns out that he is Xiang. You, hahahaha, that boy has always been Xiaoyan, who I brought up since he was a child. Here, these 3 million are the red envelopes given to you by grandpa. Take them, haha. Thank you, grandpa . What are you doing, stinky boy? This is for your wife's grandpa, he is not you. My grandson- in-law, why do I want to divorce him ? You want a divorce ? I don't agree with a good divorce. What a good granddaughter- in-law? Grandpa, I don't have any relationship basis with her at all. I and him are just to deal with your family. Grandpa doesn't want a divorce. It's okay. Don't worry. Grandpa won't let you get divorced. Grandpa, she is a woman who is greedy for money. You don't know how much compensation she just asked me to pay 100 million. No , Grandpa. No, I just don't want a divorce . Lie, stop arguing about this. I It's up to you two not to get divorced. Grandpa , this is the tea I just made. It's delicious. Try it . Grandpa, I want to work in the nursing group. Firstly, I can develop a relationship with Yuxuan. Secondly, I can get familiar with the business of the nursing group like this. You can also help Yuxuan . Okay, I agree . Brat, if you have any objections, listen to me. You will go to work at Huo's tomorrow. Thank you, grandpa. Your phone has been repaired. What's wrong with your phone? It broke just now. Damn it. How can I put this together? Have you forgotten that he is not here? Could it be that he is a fake grandpa? Walk slowly. You are not the one I know at all. Who are you ? I am your wife. Didn't you read your ID card? If you are my marriage partner. Who sent me this message ? My phone was stolen on the way here. This is a scam message. Thank you . If you don't believe it, you can call me. Anyway, you have a lot of money and you are not afraid of being scammed. Please save my new number. No need . I don't want to get divorced except for divorce. If you have anything to do with it, I have already taken care of it. If you come here, he has completely believed that I am his wife and has deleted Song Shining's phone number. However, Song Shining still has his phone number, which is always a hidden danger. Leave it to me. I will get rid of his mobile phone. That's good. You care about people and I care about finances. Happy cooperation. Happy cooperation. Have you heard that Mrs. Huo has come to the company to work ? Is it true? Isn't it true that Mr. Huo is getting divorced? The information is wrong, Huo. The relationship between the general wife and the wife is good. It seems that some scheming women are spreading rumors. It is interesting for the first wife and the mistress to get together . Some people are just waiting to be slapped in the face by the first wife. Didn't he say he wants a divorce? Is he just lying to me, Mrs. Huo? It's true that Mrs. Huo has such good-looking skin and good temperament. She's just different from us ordinary people. Okay, don't praise me anymore. I'm embarrassed. Song Shining , thank you for helping me take care of my husband. I'll be there when I come back. I don't need to trouble you any more. You're right. Some people don't have the appearance to be human mistresses even if they're wearing human skin. It's really embarrassing for us women . Why would my beautiful owner fall in love with this kind of thing? I'm afraid I can't keep him like a dog. As soon as it comes, it goes away. Hahaha, I said enough. I'm not angry anymore. What if in the future, if you become Mr. Huo's wife, we won't have any good fruits to eat . If he can become Mr. Huo's wife, I will kneel down and call Grandpa to look at it. You're not very likable. It just so happens that I can't tolerate sand in my eyes. From today on, you go to the marketing department to do logistics. Don't be lazy. I tell you, let me go and work hard. I 'm not allowed to get off work until I finish. Su Shining goes to drive. Okay, Mr. Huo. Put me down, no, put me down. I'll take you to the hospital. I asked you to put me down. What's wrong with you? What's wrong with me? I asked you, are you divorced? Something happened. Give me some more time. I'll definitely talk to you as soon as possible. Are you kidding me? Now everyone in the company is saying that I am a mistress and I am ruining your family. Who said it? Tell me and I will let them know the consequences of spreading rumors. It is not important . Anyway, neither of us are divorced now. Keep our distance and stop contacting you. You are not divorced either . Is it because he doesn't want to let you go or because you don't? I don't need to explain this to you . Why go ? I'm an employee of the marketing department now. I want to go to work. Who asked you to go to the marketing department ? No one asked you to go to the marketing department. Is there anything else? It's okay. I'll see you off . Accompany you to the hospital for a physical check-up. You don't need me to go to Mr. Huo to find out who Song Shining's husband is. Warn him and ask him not to pester Song Shining. Will it be difficult for Mr. Huo to let you go? Just go. Okay , and transfer Song Shining. Go back to the design department and check who is spreading rumors in the company. They all told me . Okay , didn't you say you would help me teach him a lesson? Why is he still nice? I have already taught you a lesson . Song Shining can't stand Huo Yuxuan's desperate defense. He also fired several employees who bullied Song Shining. If it weren't for the old man's protection, I would have been kicked out long ago. What kind of good man does Song Shining have? Such as clothes. As long as you have money, you can have as much as you want . Why are you so confused? You understand. Why is he different from other men? I have arranged for Uncle Yun to make him good-looking this time. I told you that you don't need to follow me. I will go to the hospital by myself. Why are you so uncomfortable? My brothers will check you out. Don't you want it ? Money? As soon as I have money, I will give you whatever you want . Did I say I would let you go if I gave you money? Your little money is not enough for some of our brothers to stuff iPhones. Brother, don't you just want money? My house is right in front. I'll go get it for you . It doesn't have to be so troublesome. As long as you pay some compensation to our brothers, we will naturally let you go, right? Hahaha. If you don't eat a toast, you'll be fined. Right, I'll do it now. Let me go. What are you doing ? Let him go. Don't let him move. Get out first. Why did you come? I'm so scared. I 'm sorry . I'm late. I'll pick you up when you go to work . Why are you here today? Didn't you faint during the day? Come back. Don't look. Sorry, I was too excited today. It 's okay. I know it's because of Zhou Xiaoyan, right? I didn't divorce him today because he asked me for 100 million in compensation. For 100 million, he opened his mouth like a lion. It's my fault that I didn't sign an agreement with him when we got married. Now he's going to file a lawsuit. Then why didn't you get a divorce ? He's so reluctant to let go. I've been trying to contact him recently and I haven't been able to get through. Maybe he was delayed by something. Why don't you give him your phone? Let me try. My phone was just snatched by that group of people . It's okay. I'll buy you a new one. I'll buy 10 of them. Do you still remember his number? Remember 13. Forget it, I'll contact you myself. You go to sleep . Uh- huh. I should go home. It 's not too early. It's not too early. Wait a minute. Well, your hair is messed up. If you go back like this, grandma will be worried . How can I get a good night with my hands? What should I do? Hey Ning Ning Bao. Is this the sweetness of love? No, I have to. Divorce the mysterious husband as soon as possible. Husband, this is the chicken soup I cooked for you. Try it. Come out . What's wrong? You are not my wife at all. Why did he start to doubt me again? What nonsense are you talking about? I am not your wife. Who is your wife? Are you sure if you If it's my wife, then who is the person who sent me a message asking me for a divorce ? Didn't I tell you that my phone was stolen? This is a scam message. Please see clearly that the phone number used by this person is completely different from yours. Since you said you are My wife , what is the mobile phone number I used to contact you? If you read your number, it ends in 8128. No, that's the mobile phone I use for work , not the private number I use to contact you. You have so many private numbers, I can't remember them all. Well , then I'll call the police now. You go tell the police that I won't tell you. There are still people who cheat on me these days. After waiting for so long , why haven't I seen him ? Hey, that voice from before, Zhou Xiaoyan, is indeed a fake . I'm sorry. I admitted the wrong person before. I didn't mean to break the appointment. It's okay . Let's just make another appointment. How about tomorrow ? Well, let's each bring a purple rosemary as you said. When we get divorced tomorrow, we can settle the matter with that Jiang Xiaoyan. If you want to settle accounts with me, Rosemary, you are destined to be disappointed. You will be indispensable for your cooperation in a play with me tomorrow . Why are you purple Rosemary ? Why did you just meet me yesterday and forget me today? How come you are so obsessed with it? Isn't that what you said about rosemary ? When we meet today, each person will bring a purple rosemary. When the time comes, I will bring the purple rosemary to the Civil Affairs Bureau to see him. I will tell him this lie, but Song Shining must disappear. Leave Song Shining to me. I will make him disappear completely, how can it be you ? It has always been me, I have always been your wife , but you always don't believe me , so I just played a little game with you. How about fun? So the message yesterday was also That message you sent me was what I sent you. That's my new number. Remember to note my wife. Oh, dream , let me go. What are you going to do ? Since you're here, hurry up and get divorced. Okay, but Now you are preparing 100 million or 200 million. Mr. Hu, Grandma Song Shining, came to the company and said that she could not contact Song Shining. Okay, I understand. I am coming over now . Grandma, Grandma , Ningning , something happened. Grandma, please tell us the specific situation this morning. Ningning, her. I went to get a divorce and left for a while. I called her and told her to buy me two kilograms of pork head meat when I came back. But while I was typing, there was suddenly no sound. The phone was buzzing. Something happened to Ma Cheng . It must be his bad husband. What did he do to him? Who is the husband? I haven't called him yet. The employee number given by the company has been called. No one has called. I 'll call Ning Ning . I'll call you. I'm sorry. Your phone is down. Oh, grandma, please tell me your number and I'll call you . Oh , 156. It's 165. The last number is 1306. You 're so young. I'm deaf , oh, it's that 165, that tail number is 1306, oh, Song Shining, where are you? Tell me something , it's you, Mr. Huo, who are you, Song Shining is with you, what do you want? You can ask for anything. I want you, okay? Sound, okay, I'll let you listen carefully , Ningning, are you okay? If you want him to be okay, trade yourself. I'll wait in the waste warehouse in the west of the city. If you don't wait, okay, I promise to feed you . Oh, Ningning, how are you? Grandma, okay . Someone just made a prank, okay? You go home first and wait. I will bring Song Shiying back. Zhang Bing takes grandma back. Old man, please come with me first. Hey, I must bring Ning Ning back safely. Mr. Huo found out where he is . The signal is very weak at the Chengnan Warehouse. The police have sent people to Chengnan. Call me and ask me to go to the west of the city. Maybe they are confusing the situation. The person with the weak signal should not be on the ground but underground. Mr. Huo , how much energy can these three cigarettes leave on your face ? We can't be riddled with holes. I have no grievances with you. Why are you doing this to me ? No grievances. How can I have no grievances? You see clearly who I am. Anna took everything from me and took away the most important thing from me. Do you think you deserve to die ? Lingling, I will destroy you now. Don't make any excuses . It's okay . It really doesn't hurt . Why did you shed so much blood ? My dear, my dear, my dear , Yuxuan. You are such a waste. You can't even protect the people you love. How am I doing? Do I have a terminal illness? Doctor, how is she? The pregnant woman's belly was hit hard by an external force, causing an unexpected miscarriage . Do you mean she is pregnant? Didn't you know? It's been almost two months. You said you are the father? I didn't even know that giving snacks to pregnant women and having a miscarriage would cause great physical and psychological damage . I was not right. The doctor didn't know she was pregnant yet. Can she keep it secret for now ? It's killing me. I thought I was going to die. I 'm sorry that I didn't protect you, fool. You've done a good job. As the saying goes, if you survive a disaster, you will be blessed later. Isn't this a good life? By the way, Anna has been found. Anna is She tied you up and beat him with a stick. I'm so cruel. I have something to deal with. You have a good rest first. I'll be right back . How is Mr. Huo and Assistant Song? It's nothing serious . Did you catch the murderer? I was about to catch him, but suddenly A group of gangsters broke in and stopped the police. They told the police that the murderer was Anna. How could it be her? I will offer 30 million to assist the police in arresting Anna. Anyone who provides clues will receive a prize. It is Anna. If you hurt my wife and children, I will never let you go. I said get out of here. Why did you hear that you were sick and hospitalized ? I came here to take a look at your fruit. If you can't finish it, you can throw it away . I picked it up in the trash and I thought it was a perfect match for you. You are not welcome to take it with you here. You and your garbage go away. I really envy you that you can be so heartless even though you have no children. What kind of child is this? It's lotus root and pork ribs soup. Grandma taught me how to make it. I will definitely like it . After eating it, give grandma a call. Don't let her worry about you. It's not that you're hiding something from me. How could it be? What's wrong with our children? Did our children stop talking ? You talked , but I didn't protect him well. She blamed me for not protecting him well. It 's my fault that I didn't protect him well . There will be children again. Coach Zhou said it was you who didn't want the child . It was you who asked the doctor to abort the child. Coach Zhou, he is lying. I know the person who killed the child is Anna. She is Anna. She has been wanted. She will receive the punishment she deserves. Another open-mouthed young master , I found it. Uh, why don't I go out first? You'd better have something important to say. This matter is very important. It concerns Zhou Xiaoyan . Zhou Xiaoyan is not an important matter. I swear I don't like Zhou Xiaoyan at all. I and I She has no relationship , Mr. Huo, you really have no relationship with Zhou Xiaoyan. I checked that Zhou Xiaoyan's marriage relationship is unmarried. I don't know at what point the problem occurred. You and Zhou Xiaoyan did not receive a marriage certificate, so your wife is someone else ? It has to be Mr. Huo. He doesn't even know who his wife is and she was replaced by a civet cat for the prince. This should be considered relatively normal, right? You don't know who your husband is . I'm not you. Of course I know who my husband is. Grandma follows. I said you don't know why he told you everything. Then there's nothing you can do about it. Who made grandma like me ? The first priority for you two now is not to find a real wife and get a divorce. How about we make a bet? Let's make a bet on who gets divorced first. The loser will live in the other person's house. If you lose, you can marry into your husband. It's not easy for me, the dignified CEO of the Huo family, to find someone, right ? Well , I have my mysterious husband's phone number so I know who you called. What is the situation when the user is temporarily unable to connect? Assistant Song, your situation is generally blacklisted by the other party. Why did he block me? I'm sorry. I gave him a black card. I just need to go to the bank. He will be found soon . If you lose, don't cry. Help Mrs. Huo pack her luggage. Okay , Mr. Huo, how can he block me? Please give me a call. Please tell me the phone number: 1565836. Say it again: 1565836. Are you sure this is Your husband's phone number . This is not Mr. Huo's phone number. It's impossible. I know his phone number. It's not this. This is Mr. Huo's private number. Only a few people know it. Then help me look at this card. This card is also Mr. Huo's. So Huo Yuxuan is my husband and I am the mysterious lady. It seems like this at the moment. Oh my god, I will not be fired because I know too much. I will tell Mr. Huo now. Hey, wait a minute, I 'll answer the phone. Hey, let's get divorced tomorrow morning. Huh, Huo Yuxuan asked me to take Rosemary to the Civil Affairs Bureau at 10 a.m. tomorrow to apply for divorce. It should be Mr. Huo. Then I'll tell him now. He doesn't need me to give him a surprise . Okay. Mr. Huo, please wish yourself well and wait for others . Ningning, why don't you stay in the hospital and come here to feel better ? You are here for a divorce, right? You must get a divorce today. You are my wife, so what do you say? That stingy boss is me, you said, and that daredevil subordinate is me. Right, let's go and get divorced. Fortunately , it's you. Then you can't live without Mr. Huo. Mr. Huo, our company's money has been stolen by Zhou Xiaoyan. Where did he come from? Why did the old man forget to call the police on this matter given the authority ? Did he call the police? The police are already on their way to arrest him. I know Mr. Huo. The police have arrested Zhou Xiaoyan at the airport. Let us go there immediately. Okay, let's go there now. Hey, your secretary said you were sick. Which room are you in? Grandpa , I'm not sick. Who told you that I'm in the hospital? Your secretary, Anna. Grandpa Anna, he's a wanted criminal now. Don't feed him. Hey, hey, what's wrong? Grandpa is in Anna's hands. Zhang Min, take it with you. Ningning go to the police station first and I will send you the location later. I will go with you. Okay , let's go there together. Yuxuan , why aren't you here yet? I 've been waiting for you for a long time. If you don't come here, this old man will die. Damn, what did you do to my grandpa ? I didn't do anything. It was his own disease. Where are you ? You really don't understand people. Of course I love you so much. 520. I love you too. Come on, I I 'm waiting for you. You're such a lunatic . Believe it or not, I made this old man bleed on the spot. Anna, what hatred do you have? Come at me. Don't hurt Grandpa. How can I let go? I love you before it's too late. What do you want? I want you . I'll go swap with grandpa. It's okay . Huo Yuxuan, if you guess who I am, I will agree to the swap between you two. What's the point of guessing? You are Anna. Can you swap now? You guessed wrong. You don't remember me at all. But who made me love you so much ? I 'm sleepy . Now we can exchange. Of course, by the way, a friendly reminder that the old man will die if he doesn't get treatment. Wait for me. I will definitely come back to save you. Yes, everyone in Ace is gone now. Do you, the two of us left , know what I want to do? You want me to die with you? You guessed it right. You really understand me best. Since you can't be mine when you're alive, you should belong to me after death. I'll go to Huo Yuxin , wake up. Are you feeling uncomfortable? You have a headache . The doctor said you had a slight concussion and you should be fine. Fortunately, I notified Zhang Ming and the police in advance. But you, just jump like that. If you really have something wrong with me, I won't live and you won't be allowed to talk nonsense . You have to live well even if I die. You want to make me angry again. Well, well, I won't say anything anymore. Grandpa, grandpa is fine . He's in the next ward. By the way, Anna was sent to a mental hospital. The mental hospital. The police investigated and said that the real Anna is settling abroad. We know each other. That Anna's name is Aya. She is a mentally ill person because she was abused in a mental hospital , so she ran away. We assumed Anna's identity and entered Huo's. Oh , where is the beggar who dares to steal my food ? This little beggar is very good-looking. It looks good. Haha . Do you want to eat? If you want to eat, take off your clothes. Brother, I will buy it for you. Yeah, that's good. Hey brat, don't mind your own business. I advise you to get out of here or I'll call the police right away . You're a girl. Stay away from those drunkards. You know, I know you have something to eat. Wait for me here. Look, look. Well, hello , grandpa. I understand. I'll be right back. Walk over there about 500 meters. There is a police station. Go over there and ask the police for help. You know me. . What's his name? Guo Yuxuan Yuxuan uh oh my, I remembered it , it turned out to be him, it turned out to be like this , no wonder he kept asking you to call his name, grandma, why are you here? I'll bring you some food. It's all healthy and hygienic. I made it myself, grandma . The food is really delicious. It's better than what's cooked in a big hotel. Oh, look, this kid knows how to say nice things. Hahaha, really . I heard that you fell from that building to save grandpa. Oh, how can you? He is such a filial child. He is better than Ning Ning's husband who doesn't come home all year round. You said he must be out there keeping a mistress ? He is such a bad person. Grandma, why are you keeping a mistress? Who did you listen to ? Hey, that guy next door, you Guo Auntie 's son-in-law, he doesn't come home all year round , so he suddenly said he was having a mistress outside. Oh, his daughter cries at home every day. Grandma with a broken heart . I believe Ning Ning's husband is not such a person. What do you know ? Oh , he is incomparable to you . By the way, aren't you two going to be together after divorce? Hurry up, grandma, you are still waiting to hold your granddaughter. Grandma, actually. He is the dead husband who never comes home all year round . He is your husband of one year. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no , no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no , no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Oh, I'm really old. I, I didn't sleep, okay, I, I, I, I went home and I went to sleep again. Ah, I went back to sleep. I went back to sleep. Oh, my grandma probably hasn't recovered yet . Let me explain. Grandma, has Ning Ning gotten up? What's the matter, grandma ? I said, has Ning Ning gotten up? She's still asleep in bed. Grandma, I've made breakfast. You eat first and I'll wake him up . Hmm, go to sleep for a while. Get up quickly. Today is Guan Guan and Youyou's kindergarten sports meeting. We can't be late. Grandma will accompany me. I won't go. I still want to find you. Grandpa Huo, I'm going to do Tai Chi. Okay , I'm leaving now. Song Shining, if you don't get up, I'm going to use my secret weapon. Get up , Guo Yuxuan, I can't live another day. I'm going to divorce you. Song Shining, you're itchy, aren't you ? You, you, you are joking with you, I am angry, oh, I am angry, oh, I am not angry anymore, okay, don't be angry , then I will ask you two questions. Well, if you answer them, I will forgive you. You said the first one, what month did we first meet? No. May 21. When did you fall in love with me ? I can't answer you, right ? I'm really angry. I'm not angry anymore . I've liked you since the first time I saw you . Who made you so handsome? I'm attracted to you. Okay . No, handsome guy, handsome guy, I forgive you. Have breakfast and go for a walk. It's been 5 years. Ana really misses you. I know you don't like this face of mine , so this time I will become what you like. I'm here to see you. you