Physics is the business of figuring out brains. But sometimes physics comes to with concepts fundamental to our minds, How do we tell who's correct? Are time and space There's been quite a few surprises in the history at one of those special junctions again--many pull the rug out from under us by showing How do we prepare for such a massive frameshift? not always been the same. In a previous episode In the "Absolute" space and time view, championed regard to any objects or entities, and time also At the time, this was a hefty proposition. Leibnitz and Descarte considered as a network of distances between Ultimately, we saw that Newton's pure vision But if the dimensions don't ultimately "look our mental experience of space and time resemble Newton clearly thought that there must be a very thought that we build our experience of space are inherent to the connections between objects, for those objects. Another prodigious thinker initially took Newton's side on the reality a Copernican revolution in his thinking, he came real but are constructs of the mind--inborn Last time we turned to Einstein as the ultimate space", Einstein wrote that "concepts of space and tools of thought, which are to serve relation with each other." Uh. OK, so we don't But we sure don't dismiss something Albert So, are space and time, absolute and There might be new clues in the mechanisms by going to do something unusual. We're going to do dimensions are dealt with in the brain and what Ok. To be spatially capable organisms, we Where things are in relation to us, and 2) Where The latter, the allocentric map of space, is more To navigate the environment, brains seem the surrounding environment. This In 1971, neuroscientists John O'Keefe evidence for this map in the brain. They as they wandered around their environments. rat's hippocampus would fire rapidly every And when the rat moved a bit further, a different neuron would fire, and and some have argued that they represent specific place cells correspond to specific those locations until you go to a new environment. But, how do these cells know where the rat is? In 2005 Edvard and May-britt Moser discovered like the place cells. These are in an area They also fire when an experimental rat their physical environment. But that rat enters any number of other locations at that together form a hexagonal grid These are the grid cells, and they currently in into grids of multiple Although each new space is tiled represent a fixed scale--they are like metric information with different resolutions. You're walking across a large room and a given 3 meters. A different neuron fires more often is clocking your progress every 10 meters, a unique pattern of "firing grid cells" which cell. One view is that the brain is doing a combination of signals from multiple different Now there are a lot of unknowns here, and different interpretations about what all Regardless, the combination of grid cells and behind your sense of your surrounding space. And it includes a coordinate grid. In that sense, with coordinates fixed to the current environment and also independent of things in that rather than relational. Perhaps you remember of as a network of distance relationships between But this is only the tip of the machinery. We talked about our which appears absolute. But we also perform surrounding space in context of ourselves, We use depth perception to help construct our velocity and direction of motion These relational distance measures help is absolute and not centered Our hippocampus and entorhinal systems seem so perhaps it's understandable why this intuition of space as an absolute We haven't yet got to the big question of whether although we already have some useful clues. we need to spend a little time on ... time. So, Newton thought that time was as absolute rate even absent anything to experience it. Einstein showed that the rate of clocks depends on motion and gravity, but also hinted that he didn't that experience time. He said that "Time is what absolute thing in itself, but rather something We've talked about the origin of time in this change can be thought of as a clock. For a good like the swinging of a pendulum or measured by Now, we have no "time receptors," in our brains, as we do for other features of perception, like color, and pitch. But we know that our brains can tell we can guess when a certain amount of we can sync up our limbs for coordinated least some of us can. We must have an actually it's no longer generally believed different brain regions probably find their One top candidate is the rhythmic activity created brain waves repeat on a regular timescale, and some of them might be creating something organize themselves around. We also track time through the accumulation and ordering of our All of these inner clocks track experienced time, time. On very short timescales our timing is limbs and our senses, and we're good at guessing But our guesses get worse for longer time whatever's going on--time flies when you're In general, our time perception does not seem very malleable--we remember temporal ordering of But we don't have an inbuilt proxy This may be why we wear a watch but OK, so we've talked about how the brain interesting when we bring these together. space and time is not so cut and dry. For certain conditions hippocampal cells seem to They fire sequentially as time passes In fact it now seems that place cells can fire They may even have a much more general I already talked about brain rhythms as such brain wave in the hippocampus: the theta On every pulse of the theta cycle, a chain of the middle is the neuron representing a group of neurons representing the and then a sequence representing the upcoming live partially in your immediate past and future. reflect your executed and planned trajectory This trajectory may be in actual space, or or even a logical chain of reasoning. Evidence hippocampus is critical for laying down memories. us to recall them in sequence--almost as though It seems that the machinery that may initially space has been co-opted into a much bigger which seem to play a role in mapping 2-dimensional when we build mental models that involve the We seem to use grid cells and place cells to and navigation in real space and in mental OK, let's regroup. We started all of this minds corresponds to physically real entities. thought that perception of space and time are they were not saying that the external world out there that has an independent existence that our brains partition into space and that those regularities only take on our familiar So does the neuroscience we learned agree with try to say whether our brains are capable of such Many researchers believe that our mechanisms purpose algorithms for tracking sequences of continuous variables. And with navigation it seems likely that these systems evolved with and time. John O'keefe, discoverer of place world is an n-dimensional energy soup. Animals systems sensitive to various aspects of this One evolutionary development led to a set of discrete objects and provided a spatial In other words, arranging the world into what and where and when is our brain's most efficient and meaningful way of carving nature at its joints. may stem from the fact that we have no alternative scientists are accepting the demise of spacetime this series we'll get back to the implications of processes give rise to external regularities