(rotor swirling) (upbeat music playing) (Gun firing) - [Sam] This is the AH-64 Apache, the most powerful attack helicopter the US Army has ever flown. Today I'm here at Fort to this beast of a machine. We'll be meeting the pilot, the gunner and we'll even have the chance to watch a live fire demonstration one of the most lethal helicopters (rotor swirling) - [Drew Barcley] Hey Sam, - [Sam] Thank you. - [Drew Barcley] This is and today, we're actually at Hanchey Army Heliport, which is home of the first battalion where we train aviators - You know, of all the I feel like this is probably one of the most exciting to fly. I mean just looking at it, it - [Drew Barcley] It absolutely is. And actually this Apache is which is the newest variant of the Apache. So the Apache is the Army's provides attack missions, security missions in support and is able to engage any enemy Here at Fort Rucker, we actually and undergraduate flight students flying over 40,000 flight hours a year. But today we're just kind of show you the capabilities and give you a demonstration - [Sam] Now, when it comes to the Apache, there is a lot to talk about and that's because this aircraft is widely considered to be the best The Apache is known for being and so it only makes sense giving it that reputation. Yep, I'm talking about the weapon systems - [Drew Barcley] Under one of the most iconic This is the M230, E1 30 So this thing is capable of firing rounds up to 625 rounds per minute at targets in excess of 3000 meters. - You know, one thing I've the way this gun can move around. So to my understanding right, where the sights are pointed but also where the pilot's - [Drew Barcley] That's If we tie this thing to it can deflect up to 86 60 degrees down, 11 degrees up. Really advantageous, cuz it even if the nose of the - [Sam] Now the targeting is what's built into that sits on the nose of the aircraft. You can think of it as and it contains the FLIR, or forward-looking infrared to both the pilot and the gunner through their helmet mounted eye piece. With this system, a target is and engaged using the full load - [Drew Barcley] All right Sam, so this is kind of where Right here we have the 2.75 So in this actual rocket up to 19 rockets. However we can put up to four of 'em on the aircraft that'd give What we can do here is, is load a couple of different types of warheads Could be high explosive, depending on what we wanna do. Okay, so on this next pylon This is actually the Apache's This is used for tank busting. So we can take up to four per pylon which would give us a total Each missile we got a that we can use. So these missiles can be laser-guided or radar guided depending on the mission. So today during the live fire we're gonna concentrate primarily on the rockets in the 30 millimeter. But believe me, the lethality of this missile is pretty incredible. - [Sam] Now you guys know I'm epic videos possible, of time and resources, thank War Thunder for War Thunder is a free-to-play multi-player military game that's dedicated to aviation armored Starting with the early to today's most advanced combat vehicles. War Thunder allows you to take cross land, air, and sea. Now, when I sat down to there were a few things First, it's cross-platform, on both Xbox, PlayStation, PC, and Mac. And two, it fits right in with the topic of this video cuz you can actually engage in combat with your very own AH-64 Apache. And it's pretty realistic. It features both the and Hydra rockets that including an advanced does mimic the TADS on War Thunder's graphics They have excellent sound and a detailed vehicle damage model but most importantly there's in the game. For example, a bunch of aircraft including the Abrams, and even the F-14 Tomcat which of course Tom Cruise famously flew in the original Top Gun movie. In the latest Sky Guardians update they're actually introducing like the legendary little bird helicopter in the USS Nevada battleship. Now you can download War Thunder for free from the link in the description below where new players to some pretty awesome bonuses. And of course I just wanna give for helping make epic Now you may have noticed that the Apache has two and that's because the both a pilot and a gunner. While both seats contain flight controls in the ability to fire the gunner has the best which makes it easier to On the other hand, sitting The pilot station also but it's better optimized for flying. - [Ryan Coker] Sam, where is the co-pilot's gunner seat. As you notice before there's some similarities between the two but there's also some - Yeah, so talk to me a little difference, cuz I know the right? But you guys see the terrain well. So what are those challenges of oriented to make sure - [Ryan Coker] Absolutely. So with visibility, the backseat is more primarily designed So because he sits higher, of the terrain in the area As the gunner, the majority is past the human line of sight anyway. So the majority of things we're through our sights systems, right? Which we can display on any one of the three screens right here and see those targets through or a day TV type camera to - [Sam] So I know question is where is the, where's the trigger? How are you firing these - Absolutely. So if you put your hand on and you feel behind it, If you lift those flaps, - [Sam] There they are. - [Ryan Coker] On the that we can use to range and on the left side is the trigger that controls the weapon systems. We can either fire the missile, the gun or the rockets all Sam, if you wanna reach up behind you I have a helmet here that you can put on. - Okay. - And then attached to our helmet is our helmet display unit. I'll go ahead and put it on for you now. And as we roll this in it actually that is what to our helmet, so now the gun is going to follow your eyeball. Wherever the crosshair in the middle of that helmet display unit is the gun's gonna destroy that target. - [Sam] So seriously no matter where you move, and then you just squeeze it's that easy, huh? - Absolutely. And the cool between your legs is the control the helicopter. Generally when we're have the we're gonna pull the trigger on the sight. - [Sam] Now, one thing that some Apaches are like object that sits on It's known as the fire If installed it allows for the tracking of multiple targets at In fact, with the FCR behind the tree line targeting by only revealing the one Apache equipped that target data to any other which is why it's common with it attached and some without. - [Ryan Coker] OK, so we're up here at the Apache's rotor system. So this is a fully 49 feet diameter. We have our main rotor right here and in the back we have our tail rotor. And the tail rotor actually by the main rotor. - [Sam] So I'd always assumed you're actually spinning the rotor faster and like to go lower, But you were telling me earlier right? - [Ryan Coker] It's not, no. Once we get the rotor our rotor RPM, we actually of the blades to go up and down and then we cyclically change the pitch of the blades to go left, - So the blades are really or coming back up. So the speed's the same, it's just the the angle of these is what's - That's exactly right. - Well thank you so much I guess next up we've - That's right. We're actually gonna You're welcome to join but we should be running - Sounds good. (upbeat music) So I know you're not wearing everything that Apache pilots might into a combat situation, but about what you're wearing right now? - Sure. So this is our survival vest here. Couple pieces of equipment on it. I have my survival radio right here. I have my survival knife right here. Both of these are kind if for whatever reason we would have to evade, surviving the Inside of this thing, I got two pouches, one is a medical pouch, one Medical pouch with various bandages, tourniquets. Communication pouch with, fire starters, again, And then lastly, I have below me that will have checklists stuff that on pre-flight and run out. (upbeat music) (rotor swirling) (upbeat music) Once we landed at the ammo of the black Hawk over to the Apache where I was actually able to help This was pretty wild, just up close to the rockets that we would soon be After I did my part, I turned it back over to the professionals who what it really means to be efficient at loading the Apache. Once the loading was complete I made my way back to the Black Hawk. The pilots got the prop meaning it was finally time to head over to the range where the live would take place. (harmonious music) As we made it into the hovering began to search and verify You'll hear the interaction with the gunner typically and the pilot confirming - [Sam] Now the targets are and close range distances. What you'll hear is the and confirming how they want to engage. In this case, either the or the Hydra rockets - [Sam] At this point, (gun firing) - [Sam] Once the payload has been released the crew will then confirm if or if an additional payload is required. - [Sam] As the Apache of firing the black hawk took so that we could witness the live fire from a different vantage point. This time, looking down on the Apache. The pilot and Gunner went through their standard checklist once again. This time choosing to engage - [Sam] With both targets now suppressed. The crew decided it was time to head into the next portion of the live fire. This time engaging the As you'll hear on the using the Hydra rockets to After going through their and making sure the you'll see the crew push the Apache into a forward dive to - [Gunner] Affirm. - [Pilot] Looking good, I'll Yeah, those are tight. It's a tight shot. (Hydra rockets firing) (rockets firing) Low levels, You guys know by now that this is always my because in this case it's what the Apache is capable of. As we approach the low level terrain. The Apache broke off, descending down and flying just a few Now from my vantage this was pretty crazy to see. Once again just watching the ridiculous (upbeat music) So at this point we've seen the live fire we've witnessed the low and I honestly thought to base to wrap things up. But no, instead the Apache rejoined alongside us and the crew that they had one final surprise. Only issue was they left They said that there was an where I would be dropped off. I was then told to walk to put my hands out and wait patiently. Sounds a little weird, right? But when an Apache gunner and pilot tell you to So that's exactly what I did. (exciting music) Oh my god. So yeah, that was insane. I've been around a lot of aircraft but the intimidation you is pointed directly at you It's a feeling unlike anything else. Honestly, this entire and as we made our way to return to Fort Rucker all I could do was taking Well guys, that was absolutely incredible. I'll be honest, I was a little bummed at first not to be flying but honestly the view we were able to get from the Black Hawk was crazy. - Hey, we enjoyed having you. We hoped that the view from the ground as we were doing our - It literally felt like at some point, so great flying. To everyone watching, I hope Make sure to sign up in the description below, We'll catch you guys next time.