- You look so beautiful! - Oh my god you sounded so beautiful. How amazing was that? (audience cheering) - Well, I was nervous - Oh please. - But I was like, oh it might be cool, they requested it and yeah we - I've always loved your voice. - Oh my gosh ditto! - She can blow. I love it I've also covered a few like over the past 17 years or whatever and your songs, girl, they are rangey! (laughing) Like I love it. (audience cheering) It's rare, like not everybody has that kind of range and power. - Well thank you, thank you. - Yeah, I over-complicate (laughs) And then you get to the why couldn't I just not do the octave. - I change it up a little bit. - You're touring right now, right? - I am touring and, yeah, in like 10 years 'cause I was -- - Why didn't you tour - Yes I got really scared. I'm like how do people do this? 'Cause I'm very, like I and structure like bedtime, how are you supposed to do that whenever you're in different time zones like every night and - It's so hard. - It was (laughs). I cried when I first had River and then we had two older kids, I cried - Like almost every night. I was like this is so hard. - It's so hard. be an absentee mom. - And then you're off stage and it's like oh the bedtime stories, okay what almost there to the, you know. - And they're like sing me a song and I'm like I just did. (audience laughs) You're welcome. - See I have it more easy. to pay for it. - I have it more easy 'cause shh I'm trying to sleep. And I'm there like okay cool. - My daughter does that to me! She also, she'll be like let's - Yes she does the hand to me too! - I'm like people pay for this. - She gives me that hand, they don't know, they don't know. They don't care , it's kind of awesome. - Yeah it's great. our kids don't care at all. No I love you and I love that actually, I feel like we have about parenting and everything. Like I have like major abandonment issues so like that's one reason why I am like not a helicopter mom but I really wanna be there for everything. Yeah. - You had kind of a normal childhood but it was kind of hard, right? Y'all struggled a bit. - Yeah, it was a chaotic childhood and lots of moving. We've moved a lot of different places. My dad was in the army so it and people ask me like where are you from? I'm like I was born in Staten Island but I was raised everywhere, like Japan, like everything, so-- - Japan? - Yeah, Japan for three years. - Yeah, so I just-- - I love Japan. - It's, isn't it fun? - I love Japan. Tokyo, so many things. - So many things, yeah. Oh my gosh that's so exciting! to post pictures from it - Here's it, I know I like your life! - I'm not a poster everybody was wow. - I'm not either 'cause Don't you feel it? - Yeah I think so many egocentric! - Well 'cause social media was not around when I was-- I'm so thankful! - Now it's kinda frightening when our kids are like-- giving them phones. (audience laughs) I'm like send a pigeon. - But yes, I did feel it at first. I was like what is this selfie, like why do I want that in my face? Like ah! - Like you know what I mean? - Yeah I feel like it's but I know people get But one of the reasons why I loved, and I have covered a lot of your songs, honestly is because, for females, you have such an amazing catalog, like your empowerment level it's so cool! - Thank you. I've just heard you speak here and there just 'cause of a fan, and we both have a little bit as well as financial, and I think that's why it's so powerful, when you sing those anthems-- - Because you're so believable. - I appreciate that. - Authenticity is very It's probably why I take so long to, I can't just take a song and do it, that's like regurgitating, not your truth. And I made a decision when which was my follow up to my first-- - Which was real good. I saw In Dallas, in Dallas, I was like &quot;Yes!&quot; - With the chaps and the-- You say Eda James, and I was like yes! (audience laughs) Yes, it was so good. - And what were we even talking about? - I don't even know. (couple laughs) I was bragging about you, 'cause you know, you - And the truth, I've always and I felt like that was really after Stripped, I really told my truth, and, you know, sides to You know, we shouldn't for our sexual side, through being a fighter And I think those are all messages that were really important to me. - That we're all different. (audience laughs) That's what I love about the industry too, is like even though we're all different, there's room for everyone. There's room for everyone at the table. - Always, always. - And that's what I love about you too, you actually say, I know Demi's a big fan, and y'all did that song together. - Yes! It was really really cool. But I have a question. So, when I'm on tour, I know that, there's always like one so excited about. Like I'm, funny enough, it's actually, I had no idea, no one told this is true, I got my record my first record, and I'm like sitting here looking at the booklet, and I was like, why is and I was like what? And so you wrote, I didn't the beginning of 'Miss Independent', like that part of that, - Oh that's right. - I had no idea. (audience cheers) I literally, no one told me. - I had no idea where I was like, oh okay. No because honestly no one told me and I think this is the 'cause it's like why didn't you tell me, 'cause I love her. And I would have been so excited, and what they told me is they were like, well not all females love to And I was like, well - That's messed up. - That's one of the I think about this business is and pit you against each other, when you have like even no idea. - Why don't they do that with males? - So stupid. (audience laughs) - We're changing it, we're changing it. - We're changing it! (audience cheers) Is there a song that like on your, like when you go on tour, you're like oh my god I - Energetically what's super fun is when the beginning opening - I was hoping you would say 'Dirty'. I love that video. - And then, thank you, and then the vulnerability that 'Beautiful' has with it's such a relatable song you know, just expressing your well that's what I am, and accepting yourself for it. have insecurities, and we all have, it's funny, 'cause that's is that we all have far more commonalities than differences, and that's one thing that I feel like we should focus more on right now and I don't understand, but anyway I have a couple a songs, that if you want me to I'll mention, I hate singing them on tour, but what is one that you're like (groans) like every time you get &quot;Good I get to do it again.&quot; (audience laughs) Do you want me to go first - Sure. - Okay, I don't know if you're - Don't say 'Miss Independent.' (laughs) - No my band, my band is here, like that's been with me forever. Is 'Miss Independent' not my favorite? I'm not kidding, it's the version we do on tour, and it's my favorite. And it was my first single, so funny. But no the one, I think do not hate me, do not I won't slap you 'cause I but (laughs), but it's, 'A Moment Like This' and only because, don't you gasp! But only because it wasn't written for me, it was written for the winner. And so it could have been anybody's, and so I feel like it wasn't, like special for me. that's fair enough. - Can I just say I really - Oh thank you. I wish every talk show - I did make sure, because of my height, like we're both short, I wanted pillows behind - I know I love it! - Me too! - Yeah. - It's not fun being short. - I feel like we're just I don't even know if anybody's here. (laughs) What do I not like to sing... 'Hurt', 'Hurt' is a big one. - 'Cause that's a big vocal. - And it's all like all (Christina sings) Like it's all extended vocals. - So it's really-- head voice things, your head voice is like legit my fave. - You're so sweet. I'm just gonna brag on you some more.