&quot;From the minute we saw the game we couldn't no one knew just how big it was going to become.&quot; Debbie Bestwick - Arstechnica Interview The story of WORMS begins with a little-known distribution label of sorts that would put on the amiga to a small but dedicated and Before the days of the internet, this was developers would get their creations out to a couple of quid per release The story of WORMS also begins with a young gamer growing up playing all the usual hits her teens rolled around football manager games As her love for gaming grew, she ended up game shop, and by the time the mid to late manager. And this is where our stories meet. Ya see 17-bit software had grown a little, that several games that they put out were Essentially making them full-blown publishers Which turned out to be a pretty decent move. Because Michael Robinson one of the founders stores called MicroByte where of course they Eventually, the game shop that Debbie ran one final piece to the puzzle, and that was that had all worked with 17-Bit in the past you will and that dream team was known as Ahhhhh Team7, they made some... OK games, You got the Miami Vice-inspired Miami Chase Again, it was OK! Nothing too special but hey, it was the small So, we won't go too hard on it. After all the the important part of this story It was the collaboration of 17 Bit Software the legendary developer / Publisher Team17 one of the UK's earliest major success stories. An Amiga-focused development company that course really put them on t he map, Project-X, heap of sequels, and plenty more. Within the world of Amiga home computing, and logo that were still publishing some legendary Stardust, Apidya &amp; Assassin In short, if you had an amiga... It's almost certain that you had some team17 continued into the early '90s. However, as the amiga scene slowly started staying behind, and of course by 1995 that clued up with how to pirate anything they The 16-bit home console fight was coming to well, that was already out in Japan. It was of course time, time for Team17 to Sure they had dabbled with MS-DOS, CD32, and to get their software onto different systems they could do. A game that's not just as good as Alien Breed. Without a doubt still the most popular IP a game or preferably game series that was And luckily for them, they found what they to their stand at the 1994 European Computer booted it up aaaaand Total Wormage... later And the rest as they say is history... a history As we, go back to the beginning to find out in the 1st place. We're gonna look at it's creation, it's sequels, and of course the Complete History --- Our story starts in the UK back in the early student in a maths class in a random Bournemouth "I betcha can't make a game for that" to which fidgety lad number 1 accepted the Andy Davidson was that lad and after a short game called Artillery similar to the ones You know the ones, where you have 2 static you need to carefully aim ya weaponry, measure take the force of the wind into account... last one standing wins! In an interview with Andy when looking back, a game like this running on a calculator. but, does remember maths being simply THAT it done Eventually, he got himself an amiga to continue that system adding several elements that made and of course, changing the tank-like sprites Lemmings! Yep, before Worms, it was the little blue-jumpered, against one another. As much as Andy liked the gameplay of tanks 90's standard was simply... Boring! "I always thought it would be better to which you could move around" March 1995 And what better proper controllable things, like everyone for the time, Andy was amazed tiny little sprites and so, he swiped them and before you know it his little artillery fidgety class mate. But now... the entire school "It ended up getting banned from the school. People were skipping lessons just to come I sort of took over a whole corner of the and making strange noises. My form tutor said 'Andy you are completely see that game in school again'." Andy Davidson interview - Factor-tech.com Of course the game had spread considerably tried to stop it... they couldn't! It was obvious that the game was destined So after he finished school he too got himself the blitz basic programming language to further and replacing them with worms. Why worms... well, it's obvious, as stated, the lemmings Those tiny 8x8 pixel sprites for the most matter how far away you were or how many of tell what each one was doing at any given "Back then they were just about the only This was pre-Earthworm Jim of course. I wanted something more interesting than tanks size required as I was going to have up to The public also had a right to know about which had so far gone unreported by the media Andy Davidson Interview - Retro Gamer Magazine While at the shop he would constantly have once again, when he started getting dads who by their better halfs for playing what was knew he had something special In order to get the game in front of even into an Amiga Format competition. A popular amiga focused magazine for teh time. but sadly it didn't win. In fact from what I can tell it wasn't even Being someone that was unwilling to give up different studios looking for a publisher European Computer Trade Show were he went of playtime. According to Andy... "[they] said 'do you want it published?'. That was quite a good day" March 1995 I bet it was! The marriage between Team17 and Andy was perfect. A company that had held the amiga flag high and because of this. It's easy to see why so many other publishers Remember this was back when the world of 3D The day's of bedroom coders wasn't exactly But from this point for the longest time they Andy was one of the final major success stories back into the main stream once again. Team17 knew they had a hit on their hands at a pub they exchanged information went back Lost that contact information forcing them aaaaand finally the contract was signed and was underway... [Fade out] Released originally on the Amiga on November sake. Is a 2D artillery simulator that required and by using a large arsonal of weapons take fashion. That's the basics of it... heck the original It's just this, WORMS played in a typical or both combined But as you well know, it's the simplicity Like all good classic arcade games, WORMS It may not sound like it has much under the the ability to move about the playfield by underground. It all adds up and makes WORMS the perfect The game was remade from the ground up. It included elements that Andy simply couldn't and the music. But most importantly it was still very much But now with that ever-brilliant Team 17 flair During production... not long before release. Andy told Team 17 how he had entered the game This left the developer pretty damn scared all demos sent in would be owned by the magazine... Team 17 quickly called them up and asked for and just before it became a worldwide phenomenon.. Hahaha LESSON LEARNED In order to get the game in front of as many as many systems as possible. The Amiga and DOS games are by far the most along with the Playstation release whilst previous generations were ported elsewhere. Team 17 had finally got their winning franchise Quite literally everything and the further Which, by the way, Team17 really struggled was supposedly quite anti-non-3D games at Thankfully they had publisher Ocean involved Team 17 decided to only put themselves down because they found it to be the easiest way had previously not explored themselves. This allowed them to focus more on the games some. His focus was always just on making the games. Which is why he instantly started working An expansion that brought with it a whole challenge mode, a few extra terrains, and become the norm for the games moving forward and the all-important increase in retreat This was when I got into worms, I can literally my sisters picking up the Aladdin Activity with its utterly stunning box art I wasn't the biggest PC gamer at the time. I spent way more time playing on consoles... WORMS felt right at home for me on my Gateway around with the voices and gravestone customizations And it turns out Andy wasn't done as WORMS the 1st expansion in 1997 Now, I didn't know that this game existed it was exclusive to the Amiga. Yet again, the game uses the same engine and 1.5... your choice, either way, it's definitely &quot;I am testing some of the weapons out in this 2. but what I'm trying to do here is make the It will also be the best version of the original Andy Davidson - CU Amiga Magazine Interview The game uses Amiga's Advanced Graphics the original by quite a way, 14 new weapons backgrounds and terrains. It was simply the perfect send-off for Amiga releases getting fantastic reviews across Worm's the director's cut was simply awesome... as it was the game that introduced us to the A staple for the WORMS series these days as However, what you ay not know is that the This is the real concrete donkey, an ornament him as a lad was actually a real donkey covered gave Andy nightmares as a kid and obviously Anyway, that marks the end of the original 1st introduction to the pixelated awesomeness With it's iconic music, it's wacky intro into it, it's great to see how much this game 2 updated releases. Platforming by this point has become incredibly is easier than ever... but still, not as easy and that's what WORMS 2 wanted to rectify WORMS 2 wasnt a secret. Team17 were talking about it's development The plan was to originally make a game like opposed to the idea. A new game engine that could add online multiplayer to create Reinforcement and The Directors on the 1st true proper sequel Still usings game. On top of that, by this point Team17 believed the key reasons more gamers where not jumping to better enhance the characters and to obviously And really besides that animated style and their isnt much more to say! WORMS 2 which found it's way onto systems Was yet again, an extremely highly rated game. With it's new artstyle and new user interface to the series and i personally remember a any WORMS games inviting me to play a game... it had found a new audience, The aim was to more people and it succedded As well as being a game very much made for get a kick out of the customizations including For endless worms fun Here's Martyn Brown explaining some of the up getting scrapped At the start of the project we had a huge based around weapons, interactive objects, do, etc. As a lot of these were tried, we found out gel or felt out of place, so a lot of it was A good example are interactive objects, such around the landscape, they just didn't work Another newbie was 'dynamic water' where we (either in an object) or as a pool, whatever. When dislodged, this would ebb, flow and settle it, or draining into the ocean. At the moment the code is quite slow, as it Until we are confident that it works well we aren't including it. As a by-product, a whole set of animations all things like breathing/bubbles and splashes The idea all depends on the technical compromises real time like that takes a lot of processing The water is good because it also effects that a worm is in, extinguishes, but (e.g.) Martyn Brown - Team17 Interview It may look like yet another slight upgrade... But at the same time, you can see plenty of that became the standard moving forward in on Worm's Titles Bringing us to the 2nd game from the 2nd generation... the fan favorite WORMS: Armageddon. Wormageddon as it was known during production the name was too similar to Carmageddon was of Worms 2. But after Andy suggested they add even more title and this is that standalone title. Also, it was supposed to be the final ever Here's an interview with Andy Davidson on Worms Armageddon is the ultimate in Worms amazing saga. But is this really 'the end as we know it'? With Worms Armageddon, the game has basically There's no point producing a sequel to a game improve the game as a whole. You only end up alienating the fans of the Better to leave things on a high. Andy Davidson - Team17 interview [pause] I'm pretty sure the runtime for statement was Anyway, WORMS armageddon was the full package... in the series. So much so that it received official updates in a big way right at the tale end of the But, more on that as we get to it. But for now, even though I myself at the time ignoring this... one of the best entries for To the hardcore fan, the single-player mode training to boot. And the online matches... well, they were perfect! They were quick they were easy to get into this... the 4th game in 4 years (not including really did push the online concept of WORMS That's when this franchise is at its best! When played in Multiplayer... yes, it had new sceneries, new customizations multiplayer was never this good thanks to WORMNET A fitting ending for a franchise that had The company had released 12 games up to this half of those games were WORMS titles of some Not only was I filled up to the brim with Turns out that he was well underway with designing Telling people that... I'm now concentrating totally on the next This takes the philosophy behind Worms and Watch this space. Andy Davidson - Team 17 interview But unfortunately, whatever that game was... not to move forward with the new idea but WORMS WORLD PARTY Which was pretty much Armageddon 1.5... but Whatever! The whole reason that this game exists is to make a WORMS game for the Dreamcast which And, I gotta admit, this was when I jumped of course fantastic on the Dreamcast. At the time we lived in a pub/hotel and yes, order to play games like this... among other Errrrrm mum, apologies for all the bookings The reason I loved World Party so much was To the hardcore fans this was trying to add armageddon. It really does depend on who you ask quite Either way, the important thing to point out Worms World Party was the 1st mainline game Hed already said in official team 17 interviews yet here we are Worms World Party yet another as OnlineWorms a free downloadable korean came in a year after Worms Pinball the 1st 1 table and was a port of Team 17s Addiction I mean it's fine... it's pinball.... It's fine! It doesnt really have much of anything to you would expect, which is the same as WORMS and puts our wormy friends into a sort of Cos why not Actually, ya know what, I'm not just going imagine Bubble Bobble but with you shooting heavy weapons typical to the series. It actually makes total sense. The game has plenty of puzzles and what have it's multiplayer where this game really does It's surprisingly really good. It's always dirt cheap and if you ask me ...at leats they didn't make a kart racer Wellll Yeah, actually they almost did! Worms Battle Rally was going to be a kart your opponents. I mean, i guess a mario kart like battle mode Mario Kart.... Regardless, it was cancelled And so was Team 17! In the eyes of Andy at least. Thankfully for him a contract was signed that as he moved on to ventures new. It's a double edged sword i suppose. He wanted the company to move away and make this company put out multiple worms games I bet those royalty cheques were quite tasty "I wanted to take risks and ensure any sequel predecessors. One of the things I'd wanted to try was This was supposed to be part of Worms Armageddon a prototype to see how well it would have I'd seen so many games I'd the sake of sequels, that I didn't want here. However it seemed like this was going to be there. I'd been working on ideas for a completely to develop that further either. So it was at that point that I decided to Walking away from it all was one of the hardest achieving what I wanted there." Andy Davidson - Retro Gamer Interview So, Andy was gone, which leaves one final came in 2002 as Korea got another exclusive being renamed to Worms World Party Aqua. this, just like worms online, was an online Worm i suppose, and featured very little that Mgame the developer who made this, basically from the 2nd generation and that was the end Let's move into the 3rd generation shall Nope, not yet... because before all of that, we had 2003's generation Now the idea of putting worms into a 3D space Nowadays, most people scoff at the idea of But back then, i personally remember friends the game in 3D. It was a different time. A time that upon reflection really does show 2D games wernt mainstream! We were still in the fill it up with polygons It's funny how that's all flipped around Either way, it doesnt matter, because WORMS classic games but thankfully it's still just multiplayer. Team 17 had been working on this concept for Hogs of War which in turn took inspiration The problem was however, the landscape. Team 17 never wanted to create a 3D WORMS like the originals. Thankfully after a lot of trial and error day is quite remarkable and it helps make between old and new Upon release reviewers didnt exactly take The camera being the biggest issue as you character your controlling. Not easy when your trying to aim your weapons. Thankfully the game did offer several viewpoints But still, many gamers couldnt get past it! Andy included... "This was something I'd always argued Worms was built around being a 2D game and that. To just take the game and put it in 3D ends I just see it as a bit pointless. I'd rather start again from scratch and Worms, rather than try and recreate Worms Andy Davidson - Retro Gamer Interview Regardless of polarising opinions from the It did well enough for Team 17 to put that UNDER SIEGE. Now this... out of all the 3D games tends However, i'm here to tell you that it may of gamer you are Look, Worms in the 3D space just isn't for The amount of hurdles to overcoem available you take it to 3D... it's overl complicated And this is where Forts comes in... not a the 3D series, in this game you unsurprisingly You do this to protect your worms but also take down your opponents fort. Because of this it's only the forts themselves all your energy on destroying those. It changes up the gameplay more than any other on offer here... it is a decent choice for Is it better tho... well that really does As the majority of 3d worms fans actually Worms 4 Mayhem or to be more specific It's I mean... unsurprisingly, it's more of the A refined version of the 3D worms formula bet my bottom dollar that the majority of still playing Armageddon online... and fair There really isn't much that needs to be It's WORMS... it looks beautiful, the animations, with the more cartoony side of the franchise. The destructable landscape is just as important some cases. And although certain close range attacks may Other weapons are significantly more powerful but ya know...also the same! Look, at the end of the day im with 99% of But theres no denying that these are still Their biggest issue sadly is that after a play the 2D classics meaning your not likely to learn all the tactics exclusive to the Also, they were released at a time when the It had been 3 years since the 1st 3D worms plus Golf! In 2004 I mean... of course theres a bloody Golf game Programmed by Rockpool games for Java mobile ok ahaha Obviously, im comparing this to other Java I think it's fair to say that this is to be game. You simply aim and whack your grenade towards gotta do it in as few tries as possible. It's harmless, nothing to be too angry about developed by Team 17 themselves called Worms Now this one is pretty good... you aim, you few strikes as possible and you have hazards way to hinder or help you along the way Maybe it's because i wasn't expecting i had a lot of fun. Of course it's far from a full priced game, bundled into most other worms packs... and it's gets the slope approval stamp. If you end up getting this game as part of at just how addictive it is... especially series has always shinned. And with that we are now about to enter the that was demanding they had WORMS go back in 2D and with the rise of 2D games coming back such as the DS and PSP we got Open Warfare A game that should not be played on DS... Damn this is a good game. I remember travelining a lot back when this no matter how many top tier PSP games i purchased... I kept coming back to WORMS OPEN WARFARE. It had been 5 years since a proper 2D entry perfectly well on this hadheld In fact it was so well received by longtime arcade service and Playstation Network... again, the perfect platforms for a now budget The original Open Warfare and Now the annoyingly the original game from 1995 Yes it has a story but as always it's all released onto the exact right systems at the where getting into playing multiplayer online. Sure it was more of the same but it helped games to these services proving to the world In fact, this casual XBOX Live Aracde release of the top 10 XBLA downloads of all time! According to Team 17... look I couldn't confirm You know it's gonna be right up their Handheld gamers continued to be looked after again for PSP and DS getting above average this time. In fact, upon release it was one of the best of Armageddon. Everything you could want and expect is found It allowed for yet another way to play the Plus as the game is made for handhelds which it featured several features such as a Puzzle most bang for your buck from that market... ...in other words... yes it's the same game again with every single possibly provide... but it's still a damn good game. WORMS Space Oddity on the other hand wasn't How do you think it works over at Team 17 if they should... another version of WORMS Probably WORMS space oddity is the company's attempt And, surprisingly.... It works! Although the biggest issue with it was the of online gameplay with THQ the publisher &quot;We've chosen to focus on making the best fast-paced gameplay and entertaining party-games, from being able to see the reaction of their Yeah, whatever, I'm sure it has nothing to online... besides Mario kart of course Thankfully this was resolved with Battle Island play but also the option to not use the wii However if you ask me, considering you have game... playing this with the wii mote is PSP owners also got this version of the game title Back over on XBOX Live Arcade and Playstation to do well numbers wise prompting Team 17 which itself got a remake or as the company PC under the name WORMS RELOADED. Now this may sound crazy as we have already But this is in actual fact the the 1st 2D and I think that's how this series has managed everyone likes these games, they're fairly I assume. And they are easily portable to everything. So even though it may sound like we have too it, we kinda do. at the end of the day each new system normally case, a decent length of time between similar Either way by this point all they really seem even more bells and whistles attached because does show that this is as far as the series And... yeah, it kinda was. The majority of reviews for the later games high considering but for the most part, still "It's still just WORMS"... again And even though the game series was still of moolah for the company... the hardcore fans were still going back to The perfect middle ground for the series. New enough to not look pixelated but not so forced to add something like Rope Racing. It was time to cater to the hardcore. Worms Revolution took the series in an entirely Not only have we got a new art style, that series but most importantly you got physics... yes physics has always been a key part of the way up to 11 In Revolution, when you shoot open large bodies would just make a crater. Now you can use that water to wash away your Which, if you remember, is something they On top of that, you also have the ability extra damage or coverage. These small changes mix up the worm formula amount of weapons on top of everything else. In this title, your worms also have been given Now at first glance, the idea of this put But the more you play with it you come to the time. Soldiers are essentially your classic worms Scientists are used to give all your teammates as well as providing the odd weapon upgrade Scouts as you would expect are used to scout you can explore the full map already, well Plus He's half the size meaning that he average worm. Also, when he drills into the earth, due to use the same-sized hole to get to your base. And then of course you get the heavies, slower standard weapons like bazookas and grenades. This class system really does mix up the formula The only problem with this is that the majority collection of worm classes works best for course, only after they had worked all that WORMS fun Maybe it's just me... getting wormed out I can't suggest this entry enough, it has such a unique and more importantly down to your own personal preference. I probably still prefer the standard way of But I can't deny I enjoy picking this one in a series where 95% of the entries feel Speaking of DLC... THIS GAME HAD CRAP TONES OF IT Thankfully, all of that was packaged together release alongside Worms 2 armageddon and all Worms 3 might as well be DLC too... not to the names Worms 3 during production, this 3rd worms game for ios... see what I mean As this is a mobile game, expect it to play added. In fact the water physics that made Revolution is simply nothing more than worms again for Worms Clan Wars on the other hand, took what more. Most hardcore fans STILL preferred to play But Clan Wars, was team 17's attempt to merge engine. On top of that as the title suggests the development than ever before by adding Clans to the mix Add all of this with the companion app for designed for the hardcore WORMS fan. In other words... it's just Revolution 1.5 AGAIN... Making Worms Battlegrounds... 1.6 How many times can 1 company release the same both Revolution and clan wars here but beyond about besides some minor refinements that I struggle to think of any developer that the same game Thankfully we did get another spin-off in I had no idea that this game existed. And it's such a cool idea that sadly seems So the game starts off with you seeing the in worms games... as you know the sheep are they have had enough. In flockers the sheep are trying to escape bloody end... seriously this is by far the it's essentially lemmings but with the sheep So of course this plays nothing like this It's a new type of puzzle game and it works from a new idea, but the setting, the look it's own 2 feet. It's a shame that more people do not know and way more gruesome than you would expect. Either way, it's still on steam and I cannot Sigh... anyway... time for more worms with WORMS 4 not to be the 4th mobile entry. Weirdly this entry only gives you 3 worms this... would you believe me if i told you art style.... Cos it is Reviews for the game tend to be mixed up between The super good are from the longtime fans Ahhhhhh i remember this, it's still great average reviews say something like... yeah AGAIN! It's fair to say that Team 17 had squeezed engine as they could. Even though I am a big fan of the physics denying that it had possibly moved a tad too perfected by Armageddon and World Party. In fact, Armageddon was still being played Because of this Kevin Carthew, the creative for the next big entry, they had to take it Not only was a new art style needed in order But, the most important piece of the worm The perfect game with the perfect ninja rope that worked well with the classic formula. And that's exactly what he did. Worms WMD which is believed to stand for weapons ask me... is the best the series has ever Which is good because it's the most recent ...well ok it's the last PROPER game at Vehicles and gun turrets are available to by Metal Slug in case you were wondering... buildings which brings a whole new level of On top of that the random level gererator for the series was changed for the 1st time Instead of landscapes essentially being randomly inside. In order to get WORMS WMD to keep its hand amount of small props that would then be randomly This alongside the new worm art style itself before ending on a character that took inspiration Tough Puppy... ended up being the perfect And, the obvious reason for this was because In fact, the team went as far as to closely out why it was so damn popular, literally from scratch for this game. The end result, again, was a highly respected And even though many hardcore fans still keep For me, and many others this was finally the to finally get. Also, I just love that nobody actually knows And, that's where we are! WMD was released back in 2016 and as stated 2020 saw the series' latest spin-off called that is iconic about the series as they tried of battle royale. With average results. But I think it's fair to say that no matter original idea from Andy Davidson that's single.... great... entry! And as we get closer to the 30th anniversary matches being played every second of every I think it's fair to say that WORMS is a A franchise that came close to death when out as much as they possibly could... possibly too much But then again they did end up Selling over Most other franchises would have been killed Yes, it did get a tad too heavy but for the average for the mainline releases...and considering year since the original... I think it goes to show just how powerful Theirs something about WORMS that continues a true evergreen game franchise that's finally Even if