(upbeat music) - It is great to be here. It is my incredibly great the host for this incredibly charming, science Neil DeGrasse Tyson. (audience applauding) - Thank you. - Eugene Mirman. - Neil. (audience applauding) - So, just to be clear, were birthed in the Eugene There's a whole comedy and since StarTalk has comedian as my co-host, fit nicely into that format. And so, we're here as a - Yes. And let me bring out two comedians. The first one, a very funny man. He is the author of &quot;How to be Black,&quot; and he was a supervising with Trevor Noah, ladies and gentleman, Baratunde Thurston! (audience applauding) - Ahh! Yes! You got it. - That's gotta be the coolest that's gotta be the coolest name, like ever. I might take it. (audience laughing) - The next guest, a very funny woman. She is the host of NPR's &quot;Ask Me Another,&quot; ladies and gentlemen, Ophira Eisenburg. (audience applauding) - Mwah! Eugene. - I don't know if we of this evening is. The title this evening is, (audience applauding) So, we combed the land for insight into this, and one such person is Dr. Professor John Holdren, to President Obama. John (audience applauding) At the moment, he's Professor up at Harvard, and he So thanks John. - Thank you. (audience applauding) - Also, from the Obama Jo Handelsmen. Jo, come on out. (audience applauding) She was Associate Director for Science at the Office of Science under President Obama. And at the University of Cheeseheads, yes, yes. So this event will be in three parts. Initially, we'll talk about of what's going on and why. Talk about the science and Next, we will talk about health, and get inside the and what they're all about and why. And we'll end up with a The future of space, the and so we're gonna do it all. All the science that and we're doing it now. This is a live broadcast, here, Red Bank, New Jersey, StarTalk. Let's do this! (audience applauding) Oh right. Well, Earth Day is and it coincides with the (audience applauding) So John, Earth Day began in 1970. - Right. - Why? Why not 1960? Surely people cared about Earth in 1960. - No, people did. But what of the '60s is there were the whole series of environmental (Neil laughs) - So we need disaster to protect. So we don't know how to - Disasters help. - Yep. - What were like the three best disasters? (laughing) - The Cuyahoga River - That'll do it, yeah. - Lake Eerie becoming so that most of the fish were - I can see- - In that period. And of course, the air pollution in the Los Angeles Basin getting worse and worse, so see the mountains. In fact, I was at Cal - In Pasadena? - In Pasadena, I had before I knew there were (laughing) - Okay, so Jo, you in the Office of Science what is OSTP? I'd say most people So why? What did you not do? (laughter) - Well, we obviously didn't Our job was to mix policy and science. And that meant two things, for science, how to make as strong as it could be, But the other side was using on issues that weren't - Like what? - Like forensics, forensic based on science, but in fact there's not that much science behind it. And so, we brought the - And so John, you were appointed - Yes. - Did you have to be - Yes, but there are two Science Advisor to the to Senate confirmation, Office of Science and Technology Policy, is subject to- - And I had both titles, as the president's Science 2009, took two months to get And in those two months, I office, couldn't give any but I could talk to the President. - Wow. - Glad this bureaucracy's (laughter) - So, how was Obama among the presidents with regard to science, would you say? - Well, I think President Obama president since Thomas Jefferson. (audience applauding) Thomas Jefferson, of course, - Yeah, he was badass. - I hope Warren Harding (panel laughs) - But the president came how and why science and for public health, for the environment, for national security, he just got it. - So he was pre-loaded? - He was pre-loaded, he just got it. He understood it. - All right, so Earth don't really know what you're Like, what're you supposed to do? - I think you're supposed to - Yeah. - And then get it on a tote bag. - Yeah and walk around with it. - Walk on the Earth. - Appreciate it. - Walk on the Earth. - Yeah, touch the Earth. a good thing on Earth Day. - Yeah, very common. - Look at a baby for as (audience laughing) (scattered chatter) - Now, Earth Day has a - Absolutely. Some of us think it should because it's about the thing on the Earth is the soil. That's where all of our - Wait a minute, don't you study soil? - I do, I'm a little biased. - I was like, that's very specific. - How many wanna call it Soil Day? - Yeah. - Um, a few of us. - I feel like water is pretty important. - Yeah, that's true, yeah. But soil-- - See, I could go more (laughter) - Keep telling yourself that. - I can't go 10 days without water. - But the Earth is dead So, you can't use yourself But it's okay. - And Neil, you can't go Air is really important. - True. - Yeah, that's minutes without air. So when I think of Earth Day 1970, in that same year, the EPA, was founded, and so was NOAA, The National Oceanic and (audience cheering) - So these are-- - NOAA fan. - That was a benchmark So, I'm trying to understand. - Well, on a slightly more - More serious than - No, more serious than you're going for a week without soil. - Oh right, okay. (laughter) - On a more serious note, what is talking with folks all the ways we depend on air, and soil, and water, and sunlight. And the trouble is, most think that food materializes You know, they think that into the wall, the electricity behind the wall, (scattered chatter) and that there's a whole And they think that most pest control is done by pesticides, availability of water is they just don't get it. That we depend on the And that's what it's really about. - You guys worked in an office, that should be household How come? - Well I think partly 'cuz The president was the because he rolled out the - I remember, when was told people how to use I forgot the details, as, (laughter) No, I forgot! It's not about sex, it's not about sex. - I believe he told people to masturbate and then the president (laughter) - I'm not totally wrong. - No, no that was the next-- - That was Madeline Albright? - Joycelyn Elders. - Right, Joycelyn Elders. - I remember the - Why do I even know his name then? - So he was around, I So we all new his name. - Yeah, yeah. - And so, so why didn't we know your name? - 'Cuz you were out of it, Everybody I know knows - You work with the guy. - Well, but I know a few the White House, and they - So here's the thing-- (applause) So Earth Day, there is somehow in the air, no pun intended, a sense of That came out, I think it of when we were going to the moon, right? - Mhmm. - But I think we went to explore the moon, we looked back, and discovered And in that discovery, Earth and we want to preserve there in the void. - We basically took a planet-sized selfie. - Yeah, basically. That's right. From a quarter million miles away. So it looks like we exploited - Absolutely. That blue that Baratonde has just - And so, EPA gets formed. Apparently, not under any - Well, you know it was President Nixon actually thought it was important to do that. - And I think he was - It's true. It was one of his better moments. - Okay. - I think today he'd be (laughter) - So the mission of the EPA, are protected from risks to human health and to the environment, where they learn, and where they work. So, this sounds like an - A very important been built up since its on the whole, a pretty good job. - And what's the relationship - Well NOAA is basically and a science organization. They're responsible for in the oceans, what's The National Weather Service So our weather forecasts come from NOAA. And by the way, a member of &quot;I don't know why we have &quot;The Weather Channel.&quot; (laughter) - Idiot. - And that's what's called (laughter) - All right. So, both And can you comment on - Well it's mixed, obviously. strong support through both administrations over the years. - Right. - But now, they are faced most severe in EPA, if is accepted by Congress, and that's not a foregone conclusion. He's proposed a budget has to approve it. But that budget cuts EPA's and the research and in EPA is cut by 50% in NOAA's budget is also being to ocean monitoring and - Now, you don't have 'cuz you're not in Washington anymore. - That's right. - So why am I even (laughter) - Well a lot of people are to be the role of science and technology in the new administration-- - I'm not gonna ask you of a politician. Is there (laughter) - He looked like one. - He does look like one. - Oh! (cheering and applause) - Hello Red Bank! - Senator Cory Booker! New Jersey. (cheering and applause) - So you can't come up and not say hello, man. I got word that you were in Jersey. - You did get word. - You crossed from the - I crossed the moat. - Into the light. - I crossed the moat of the Hudson River. - Welcome to New Jersey, - Thank you, I'm delighted (applause) Senator Brooker, you're - Yes. - That can't have been easy. - It was the best - There you go. And so, you are sitting correct? - Thank you New Jersey. - Yes, okay. So we have people who previously served, and you were in Congress - First of all, their names but they are heroic people that made Obama probably one of the we've ever had, due to - The folks he put in place. - Yes. - And so, we're now talking 'Cuz a lot of this I to so many people, and So the president puts out a budget, and doesn't the Congress with most of what that is? The Article I branch of the Constitution, the first branch of government described is the Congress. They have extraordinary So the president suggests to Congress, but Congress - That is like a That was so politely delivered. (Cory laughs) Like Article I, son, suggests actually. - By the way, we could Article I, son. Almost had to like restyle it right now. - We'll round it backstage. - So you and your fellow yield real power on that budget. - It's extraordinary - I'm happy to hear that, honestly. (laughter) I'm happy, let's hear more. We have power. - I was aghast at the president's budget. I think it was one of that basically put forth in of what his values are. Which frankly, if you look at his budget, the so called Skinny apart critical programs of American's lives, even that voted for him, it of those people who supported of creating jobs and preached in his campaigning really debilitated this globally in a world that now Which means science, and so critical. So to take in that would really be our back as we're and the German and the significant investments. outstrip America when in R&amp;D. - So I wanna compare sort of under EPA and NOAA in Obama - Well, I just wanna everything we touch represents I mean, everything here, to the touch screen, of all this science and is now using to create thousands of jobs is public sector investments Hardly anybody knows that, Dollar investment, in are fiscal conservatives. I had to be when I was Every tax payer dollar was precious. The reality is, is the for a tax payer dollar, one in government investments The National Institute of Health, in such things investing in science. You get almost more than double the return in terms of long term economic And so to savage those - So they're people who don't recognize that the government is where some kinds of money gets spent. Rather than saying the no money at all. - Yeah, well let's just look at the EPA. I mean, I believe in the but Newark, for example, their to the free market run amuck. In other words, the river, the soil in Newark is full of lead, the oxygen, we have terrible asthma rates. And those were caused by properly regulated, pouring and destroying, not just the but also the fiscal in the long term. So by the EPA being savaged like it is, it's not just the research but just holding people that they're breaking out there actually costs all of us money. - So, this is a message that So you're a senator, and you don't have a so who's gonna listen-- - Whoa, whoa, whoa. I have a (laughter) - Got me there, okay. - That was horrible. - So there are advisors, there's the National Academy of Sciences, Office of Science Technology and Policy, so we would like to think the public listens and heeds. But somehow that's not happening, and I don't think any So what's up with that? (laughter) - Well, I think that now more than ever, and I learned this with this last election, that the only thing necessary is for good people to do nothing. - Or to do like some, but not enough. - Yes. - Right, we've learned not gonna cut it. (laughter) Some of those tweets are hot fire. - Yes, and so the age old the reality is, is we did not And a lot of folks, and about this concept of love, is love of country. Love it demands action and sacrifice. So if you love your engaged on these issues, you've gotta stay involved, and you've gotta let that, hey you're gonna in fact, the budget of this And the budget decisions on a continuing resolution. What're you gonna prioritize? If you're not speaking up and and engaging in the process, surrendering precious space like the one that we're just talking about. - So let me just, anchor this in data. So in order to make an informed decision, make informed protest even, you need data. And NOAA is responsible for many many satellites that orbit around the Earth monitoring And you would think, that so that people will then learn about the data, as citizen scientists, if you will. So, where is the disconnect here? - Well first of all, the climate change better than many (applause) - He's right. - Got a lot of snaps for that one, lot of snaps for that one. - Sorry Cory. - He's no longer working so he can say that. - No, but it's true. You know, polls show, and I said this to President Obama at one point, polls show that in the range of two-thirds of Americans believe that substantially caused by we need to do something By the way, only 50% And when I told the president that, and he was saying, &quot;You scientists have to &quot;do a better job educating the public.&quot; And I said, &quot;Well we've done &quot;and it's more than evolution.&quot; And he said, &quot;That's no consolation.&quot; (laughter) - So, it's not 100%. So people, they seem to be sort of in denial of data that they don't like. - Well, it's almost like they're afraid of what the data is going to say. I mean, we have laws in Congress that I found out, where studying things. Like we're blocking even the studying of gun the effects of it. And so-- - The supporters of blocking gun violence. - Yeah, yeah. And so the question is why? And I wanna be very blunt that we have to understand. There are large, moneyed interests, large corporate interest in this country, that are very invested into And on elections, they of dollars, supporting fossil fuel industries and So you can't expect, with into the system, that the as a result of that, despite the evidence. And try to do everything they Like the tobacco industry for so long. They would fund scientists funky science that was or at least confuse people as to what the data was showing about cigarette smoking. - So, Jo, you for a while Is that right? Or you that taught people about it? - Yeah, in OSTP we dealt like Ebola and Zika John and I were the key people in OSTP and we handled it. - So, that's a case where, people get sick and die. - Right. - So there's an immediate - Yep. - And climate change has a little bit more of a horizon, but if sea levels seems to me that's cause and effect. - Well, when heat waves, burning larger and larger areas. You know, in the Artic. - Can't this weigh more than the billions of dollars for advertising? - I think we might be lookin' First of all, funky I don't know why you're dissing it. (laughter) I wanna go to a funky science party. Second, John you started were born out of rivers on fire. Maybe they're trying of disaster and urgency to inspire us. - No, it's happening. - That's good. - The reason that so many that climate change is real and dangerous is they're experiencing it in their lives, they're seeing it on their TV sets, they're seeing it on their iPads. And it's stunning, if of the areas afflicted by If you look at the areas For the first time, in modern in the Arctic. The Tundra is burning, that never happened before. - That sounds terrible. - It never happened before in the period when we were looking. - I went to a doctor for a sinus cold, and she told me it was global warming, I swear to you. She said - She sounds like a kook. - I did report her. - You've seen every kook. - But New Jersians are of climate change right now. Most people don't fishing industry in New Jersey. What's happening with the the warming of the oceans, that they used to be able of New Jersey are now being found further up in Connecticut and Maine. - That's kind of nice for New England. - But New England is complaining because they're seeing moving further and further to Canada. - That is a problem. - And so, but more than that lives in flood areas. And now, the flood maps, what used to be hundred with more frequency, which a lot more money. - Okay, so I like what you were saying, who said it, that maybe pre-1970 state of circumstances where we've gotta drop low - They're tryna inspire us man. - Oh, the disasters are Oh, that's an interesting - It's the only way to stay sane. (laughter) - So do you think maybe light a few local rivers on fire? (laughter) - That's what I'm sayin'. - Like, do we need to would come across? Like on his walks? - Like Mar-a-Lago. Light - Fifth river at my (applause) - So Jo, is it too late? - No, I don't think it's - Because the river on fire, - Right. And when we talk we're talking about planet wide. - Yep. - So that requires planet wide cooperation and participation. So is it too late? - Well, there was one study that showed that people believe in more on the three previous days' - Wow. - People are idiots. - And so their belief goes up and down. - So, are we just like three from people being like, (laughter) - So, I'm sorry to return to this point. The cynicism is killing that the majority of us, believe that climate change is real. The disconnect is not realizing that there's a problem. The disconnect is, you know, more eloquently than I could ever say it, &quot;The problem today, what - But wait, who said this again? - Martin Luther King. - Martin Luther King. - &quot;What to repent for is &quot;and the violent actions &quot;it's the appalling silence and inaction &quot;of the good people.&quot; - And so, that's the problem. You poll Republicans, the believe climate change is real. Millennial Republicans are on these issues. - On everything, in everything. - All issues. - And by the way, the on the planet Earth, every other nation, their right party and in climate change. The official, elected is the only one on the officially believe in climate change. - That's called American exceptionalism. (laughter) - So should we put that - Yeah. - There ya go Neil. - All right, let me give you You know, I'm always a big is greater than the people in power. But folks don't exercise their powers. Alice Walker said the most power is not realizing they And so the cynicism is actually a toxic state of being, 'cuz it's surrendering 'cuz things can't be changed. This is something very simple. If just Millennials alone, in his speech to Howard students. Forget Republican or generation, the biggest population bubble coming up demographically right now, if they just voted at the 40, 50% in midterm elections, the entire Congress would change. - Thank God. - Obama said, this is not complicated. He looked at the young people and said &quot;You don't need to occupy And so this is not a problem and I fear-- - How do we get that - So I get this, I get that in the '60s, huge in every major city, campus unrest. It was a time where citizenry was trying to take back the And you're getting some of that now. But at the end of the day, That's what it comes down to, doesn't it? I mean, what policies all agree to to solve these problems? - But you can win fights. took heat, even back here I said okay, I need to with Republicans, and I worked on this, and saying hey, industry get all kinds of But renewable energy, to the Chinese and the and technology, the jobs of because the tax credits for They're not predictable tax And so we fought with an exchange. We allowed the export of in exchange for 7 years Well as soon as Congress did that, what do you think has industry in the United States? Boom. The investments are going up, the innovation is going up. - That's the art of compromise. - We won that battle in Congress. It's not something that made but we're in there every day fighting. And the thing that we 'cuz I've watched. This of the Trump Administration, the day Congress changed, one of the first things in the House was to remove the watchdogs, the ethics watchdogs. And it was the public, that they stopped them in their tracks and they reversed courts. of times since then, that exposing what's happening, And you and I both know history. When it comes to science, poets, the right inspiration and the urgency of people. Whether it's Kennedy talking which has fueled science like crazy, or just simple Americans, that have powerful platforms, bringing science-- - Help us Neil DeGrasse - Bringing science to the mainstream. I mean, you are a guy on science issues, and I think - I don't know, if woke and folks. (laughter) Well no, what I'm trying to do is through forums such as this and everything else, is just try to not tell about the universe, but empower people to understand why. And in that way, they can take ownership of that knowledge, without Right? If all it was is, &quot;This is then I failed as an educator. You say, &quot;This is true &quot;caused that, and that caused that,&quot; then you own that information. And that then gets shared, and I don't have to be at that point. And then everybody takes and of the country in which we live. (cheering) - What a concept. - It also helps a lot everyday screaming 'cuz we know that there's someone out - Okay, so one point. Carl Sagan was once asked-- (cheering) Sagan, yeah. - I think they were celebrating - Did you catch that the billions and billions, did you hear that? Yeah, yeah. He actually said that, I heard that. He was asked, with regard to superheros, what was his favorite superhero. And he's not a fan of as they're portrayed, it do anything about problems in the world, because you're just who has the power to eating popcorn watching movies. And so to the Senator's point, It's the power you don't that is the failure. - Yes. - I paraphrased. - Yes. That's one of the most common ways we give up our power is in the first place. - Not even knowing you to someone else who's using it. - Yes. - Possibly against you. - Most likely, if you that system is gonna work against you. - It's like when Time were all Person of the Year. (laughter) - It did say that, I remember that. - Remember the mirror? - And I was lame, that was like the lamest person of the year ever. - Or was it the best? - No, it's, what's the generation where there are no losers and - Yes. - I think they had the And yeah. - Yeah. - You think Carl Sagan secretly liked &quot;Green Lantern&quot; though? (laughter) - I'll check with his people on that. - Yeah, yeah, please do. - So, coming up in the next segment. We're gonna explore, the latest advances in medical research, genetics, and health. Live from the Count Basie (applause) - [Audience Member] You're the man, Neil! - The universe is the man. No, the universe is a gender (laughter) - Red Bank , New Jersey! Give it up for StarTalk! (applause) - Can I just point - Do your thing. - Eugene is one of the of one of the great traditions in America, he is an immigrant from, - I forget. No, Russia. - You're from Russia. - Yeah. Yes. - Yeah. I'm a U.S. citizen, - That's right, so he's a - He's a first generation immigrant. You were born in another - I can't be president, but that's fine. (laughter) - On that subject, I will add. I just did this homework, average of first generation since 1900 is about 10%. were born somewhere across the century. Now, let's ask another question. What percentage of American in the sciences was a A third of all American physics, and human So they're three times as this highest prize of science, than they are even in the population. - Well I'll give you an example of this. So people who come down I love when people don't hire lobbyists but they come down themselves. I see lots of New Jersians come down, and when I see college to my University of Stanford and they say, look, this is crazy. We bring these folks to study at our universities we use our resources, giving on the planet Earth, and as runs out, what is our Get out of our nation. - Right. - And that's ridiculous, that attracts its back out into the world. - I would like to point out, that President Obama a Green card to every graduate degree in science earned by a foreign citizen. Just staple the Green card to the degree. - And have them half illegal? Let me tell you what's worse. They have around Stanford, I that says, &quot;If you can't get &quot;come to Canada.&quot; And so other countries are to accelerate ahead of the And one of those things had policies that tried of the globe. And they're not gonna do that anymore? We wanna do that, 'cuz we wanna lead. - Just in all fairness, Newt to staple the Green I just wanna just be fair out there. - He said a lot of stuff. - One of his few sage observations. (laughter) - I am Canadian, and now treat me like I have a illness. (laughter) - Is the illness being American? - Yeah, they're like, &quot;How's it going? &quot;Are you okay?&quot; - So, two people on the - Yep. And actually I'm I'm not a citizen. - Yeah, hey. No I'm a new I'm cool. Anchor baby. (laughter) So let me ask you guys something. I've got science advisors clue us in how advice is obtained, received, and enacted or not. What is that dynamic here? 'Cuz I don't know. - Well, first of all, I with Democratic senators. - But not Republican senators? - A few Republican senators. part of the way it works is between the scientists in Scientists in government - In front of the subcommittees? - Or, in front of the - You're on a committee. You're - Yes, I'm on two the commerce committee, commerce, technology, science, And I'm on the environment committee. Environment and public works. So I'm on two of the main issues of science, - And they hear a lot of meet individually with from, not just the White Department of Energy, from the from NOAA, their staffs meet all the time. - So these are all the people who the Senate approved. - Yeah. - So they can just summon you at will. - Absolutely. - And just, bitch slap you (laughter) - Well, you know, when I used to testify-- - Is that a yes or a no? (laughter) - I will comment that on we used to call that pinata day. - Pinata day? (laughter) - They swing at you with to break you open and - Did they ever hope you with their science homework? (laughter) - 'Cuz I once testified in in the Senate. And you or you weren't a Senator yet. - I would be there, sir, - But since I'm a I didn't feel like a pinata, just kind of gathering information. And I was commenting on specifically space that has unlimited resources, of resources that on So I just thought I would - Yeah. - And so, I was intrigued like I was making much of a difference. And I was just kinda and then they were going through motions, and I didn't feel their energy. So does this work? When you give advice, are - Sometimes. Sometimes it - Cory, when they give - Sometimes. (laughter) Look, there's a serious problem but there is a massive area in which I find bipartisan And that's everything and I saw that the technology for drones, that we were losing all our regulations, were I told the head of the FAA, Orville and Wilbur Wright, off the ground. And they were literally like France, and were in utilizing drones for mine and so I found partners there. Nuclear energy, next - Thank you for pronouncing Thank you very much. (laughter) - Other nations are now nuclear scientists because that doesn't look to the next which is far safer, eats from the current aversion, losing out on our edge in that technology. - Here's something that I can't imagine-- - We need to loosen laws about nuclear... We need to make some loose nuclear energy? - No. - That's exactly what he wants. - No, what we need to be doing as a nation is we need to begin to have a government that moves at the speed of - That's the whole third - Right. - Okay. - What I wanna know is, points of agreement health? The National Institutes of Health. That's gotta be in there somewhere. - Well, look-- - Wow that took too long (laughter) - Senator, that's a quick yes, all right. - So we are screwing in our investment in biotech. And coming from a biotech and innovation in health space state, where-- - New Jersey. - New Jersey is, we in so many ways, the system. We're screwing up in not investing in it, other nations are beginning to pull ahead in their investments in this area. We're screwing up in is contorting and making way too high priced. I that this space frustrates But what bothered me most is just the fact that Alzeimer's, my just a few years ago, all these illnesses that are we could be investing more in We could lead humanity out like we look at other But we're just not making to put our resources, or spirits to solve the problem. - John, it sounds like you with an analysis, and and then you have an That everyone just agrees with, and you create the policy Why isn't that happening? - Everything you say makes complete sense. - Neil, some of it is happening. we started the Brain tremendous advances in which will help us ultimately or avoid Alzeimer's. - Or how to make better (laughter) - Does that still exist? or has that just been replaced with like a bucket of bubbles. - It still exists, maybe out about it yet. - Wait so Jo, can you think of biomedical advances that more people need to know about? - Well, one of the big in fact, it was my first was precision medicine. Which is the idea of using big data about big populations of treatment, and prevention So you can sort of parse groups, and based on, or their genome, or their you can then make predictions And this is really the future of medicine. But I had kind of an This was my first memo to the president. We, John and I, wrote this a few days later, very to meet with the president. - You got to write memos to the president? - Yeah. - Can we tell which and arrest them beforehand? (laughter) - I saw that movie, yeah. Okay. - So we had this great clearly had gotten precision medicine, so I walked out feeling pretty good. I said, &quot;John, he got it. And the next week I was sort of perusing some old legislation, and I written by Senator Obama (laughter) Crushed. I was simply crushed. But that I think, is an because when we rolled we had as many Republicans as Democrats at the event. And just in Cures Bill, which supports and the Brain Initiative, passed the Senate 95 to 5. Thank you very much. And that was certainly bipartisan. - He was in the five that didn't-- (laughter) - Yeah, let's hear a he voted against it. - Yeah, thank you very to me that health would be the most bipartisan thing going. - But then, I'm surprised the funding to the National so I don't understand that. - By almost 6 billion dollars. - Yeah, so Cory, what's up with that? - It is a-- (laughter) - What's up with that? (laughter) - I've literally been the scrum during these large budget deals, where exacerbatingly, you're how can we be funding x, programs that don't do something as obvious I work in a body, that It's kinda one of the more where a lot of these upon us. And so, I don't understand. Forget about if you don't and you're not as much of a but think about your family, Why aren't we making And even worse, again, I and over again, but we've heard all about this president promising but the reality is, our massive investments in terms investing in these things, They're gonna catch us and overtake us. And so, I just look at and what Germany is doing, in terms of what they're investing in-- - Even Russia? - But Cory, I'm tired of something. I'm angry. - Yes, okay. Bring it. (laughter) - Hold me back. So the day I realized, and this is a pretty, I'm but disturbing day for me. When I look back at America's okay, from 1957 onwards, until we landed on the moon. Essentially every decision and what to do there, was and the Soviet Union had already done or was already planning. They put in a first satellite, They put up a dog, we put up a chimp. They put up a human, And we are reacting, at And I wonder, can a Or do we have to wait around and only then do the pistons align for us to act the way we should. (applause) - We're live at the Count Basie Theater! (applause) We're talking about the And I've got a great panel up here, what we're tryna do is Trying to find out how policy to affect change, for the And Eugene, we're here for you. - Yes, thank you. - It's still part of the Can we set the stage here? - Yes, let's do it. With Baratunde, everybody. (applause) And Ophira Eisenburg. (applause) - And I've got John both who worked at Obama's Office of Science and Technology Policy. And very special guest, who onto stage, we have New (applause) - Hey Neil, I hate to say U.S Space Program, but the Russians never put up the Hubble, we put - Oh, snap! - Son, what? - Precedence from the Russians. - 20 years later. - No, but you're talking through the '60s. We've ahead of the Russians-- - Right, Hubble was peanuts compared with putting people in - But scientifically not peanuts, at all. - Of course, I got that. was always not science, so. - Yeah, we tried to fix that. (laughter) - Now, let me get back to - Do you think though, Parkinson's, we would then-- - Get on it. (laughter) - Like if they kind of shifted, we could get in a real race. - So Jo, what more advances What can we look for? - Well, I think one of the about is microbiology, to understand that not but all ecosystems on by their microbiomes, which of microorganisms. - The microorganisms that - Yeah. Exactly. - Like mostly, probably, - Right, that's where a lot of them are. But also, the skin, the ears, - And it turns out-- - This is nasty. - No, no. - I'm thinking, you know that everyone over 50, into something called a phone booth, and take the receiver and and this side to their have done it that day. So now you have shared - But that illustrates-- - There's no but to that! That's just nasty. (laughter) - All right, they're still alive though. - Maybe that's why the have all these allergies and disease. We're like steeped in germs. - Well, and that's right. And it points to exactly the are not germs, they're not harmful to us. There are only about 80 species of germs, and there are thousands, if not millions, of other species of microbes. And so, we don't think But in fact, they're keeping us healthy, controlling our behavior, to disease all the time. - But even, I've read a lot I mean, even things like that we've been thinking actually our gut microbiome of our wellbeing, how we're dealing-- - That's a whole frontier now. - Wait, that it has to do with depression? - Yes, talk, talk. - Tell me. I am very curious. - You tell me the microbes in my body are affecting the-- (Neil laughs) I gotta say this 'cuz it was so cool. She was saying that there's I know I'll get some of this wrong. She was saying that that actually like this fact to your eating desires. And you say, &quot;Gee, I want some chocolate.&quot; When in fact, it's your - That's right. - That's true! - We're driven by our - But I hate to tell you that I'm reading is, bad gut bacteria, and the bad off of empty carbohydrates But if you really wanna you need to eat more more plant-based diet. (applause) - Five people are - Clapping for carrots. - So tell me about this that I've heard. That's an acronym right? - Yep. - 'Cuz this sounds like it's - Well, I think it's very make very, very precise changes - This is a tool in the laboratory? - That's right. - That could never go wrong. (laughter) It's like a photoshop for genetics. What could you do wrong with that? - What could go wrong? - Can they grow hair? - So, is a biologist concerned Making new life, or altering - Yeah, well I think that was a big issue when John and I were in the White House, was trying to figure to what we're comfortable with? And one that was clear, in his policy, was that we're which means the embryos that are forming. So we're not gonna in people in the test tube. - Heritable would mean that from one generation to the next. - That's right. - Right. - And so we're thinking to be called gene therapy, not your sexual tissue, but or your lungs, would be modified. So it would only have an But that hasn't stopped exactly the experiments and affecting embryos, that will be passed on. - Do we have super soldiers? - I saw that movie. - Yeah, it sounds like it might be real. (laughter) - Or at least people that That'd be cool. - I mean, it seems to me if you can, you know we joke about this, and I'm not even a fan of if you're gonna live on modify you so that about Mars is okay for your And that way you don't have That's an extreme case, this to cure us of our - Right. And so the human body has evolved over many millennia to with a few mistakes, certainly. But we haven't evolved to be on Mars. So I don't think we're just - I just put that out there, 'cuz people occasionally talk about it. - Yeah. - But is this real, and is And does Congress know about this? And are they behind it? - Are you learning about it now, here? - Yeah, yeah he's taking notes. - And have you watched WestWorld? (laughter) - And can we delete the Republican gene? (laughter and applause) - Edit, Ophira, edit. - Sorry, sorry. I know that's - So, is there an awareness of the value of that power? The good value of that power. - Incredibly so. It's not to I would like us to get technology, innovation my frustration. Is the when I hear a scientist what is possible, I wish expand the moral about what we are capable the human race into a into a more prosperous And that's the challenge I get back to this idea a good role in, and we all in doing, is we can't unless we're willing to change. And be a part of that And so, we all should be excited about innovation, the the more that will ripple elected leaders are, to respond to our demands. - And so, what do you see are the barriers between that goal and sort In a way that we become wise, wise shepherds of our future. - Well, look, I wanna be very blunt. We are gonna have some ahead of us. We've got three plus who has made it clear that he is contrary. You made up global warming. with his budget he put forward. And so much of what I'm doing still looking for to get things done, but a president that I think wants in terms of science, innovation-- - Yeah, but I don't beat You know why? Because they're elected - Right. - So, you can beat 'em on the head, and even get rid of them, of the electorate that voted - Right. - So your gripe is not your gripe is with the 60 - No no, in fact, hold on. I don't think we get anywhere as a country when we are in the course I think what we need to do-- - I see this as a matter of education. - Well, yes. - If you're actually saying, these people and they don't know it, then somebody's gotta educate them. - Right. And I'll give One is, this is why the Because when you saw-- - 8 people are goin' to the Science March. (laughter) - I was down in Washington and people didn't march around saying, it wasn't people with signs In fact, I bumped into there that were against But a lot of this is just-- - Right, I saw no - No, not one. - And there were a lot - The March on Washington, Strom Thurmand, literally in the Senate, is a racist the Civil Rights legislation. But the March on Washington, John Lewis, Martin Luther against those folks, they were calling to the moral imagination of this country. And what my frustration is, We luxuriate in this incredible nation, we have the four most as a human being. In fact, of humanity can say, &quot;I am an American.&quot; And that comes because of and struggles of generations before. And this generation, we see We see what's happening of people not voting. I you know, 50, 60 million people 57 for Donald Trump, And 74 million other &quot;look what just happened.&quot; You know? (laughter) And so, I'll give a very and what's happening right now. This isn't because of Donald under a great president that We, in our nation right reauthorized and Mitch a simple solution to These are corporations that in all of America. There's unfortunately, New Jersey Now, that has-- - Lucky you! (laughter) - That has lapsed, that Because this Congress now, not like the old Mitch to reauthorize the cleanup for that. So there's all of these there's no corporation anymore But now, we have something called data. When I was mayor, I A lot of people coming and I said, &quot;Look, in God &quot;bring me data.&quot; You're not a deity. Show me the numbers. Well, data, from Princeton University, about what are the long around a Superfund site? have a child around a about a 20% more likely 20% more likely of So talk about a threat to our children. This isn't the Russians or ISIS coming, this is problems we have that the only things allowing I have two Superfund sites in Newark that are close to where I live. But the only thing stopping is decisions being made in Congress. But most of us don't even know that fact. - But we also, we have the gene editing. So we can just get that - I guess what I'm saying is that this is the greatest I don't care what Donald to make it great again, with reservoirs of love, But something is missing. in the 1960's too. It took geniuses. I remember Martin Luther of Taylor Branch. He comes after writing one of the greatest pieces of American literature, &quot;Letters but he was failing. Two young Dorothy Cotton and James &quot;Hey you're failing here. Let And the thing they did different was to organize other young to march against Bull Connor. of 10, 12, 14, 16 year olds marching. And what Bull Connor did, he The next time he released dogs on them. But suddenly, people sitting home in Iowa, in New Jersey, saw this Literally, the Soviet Union was making fun of our democracy on the front And it so awoke that reservoir within days, segregation Because this country, when nothing can stand in our way. And so the challenge is, now-- - It just sounds like you before you do something. - I think what we need to I mean, you jokingly but I'm sorry, I've done the political-- - You should do it. - Yes. I've done the about what influences people to act. And did you know the most persuasive thing to get your friends to vote is knowing if they're voting or to your circle of friends. More than one of my campaign if somebody says, &quot;Hey, &quot;he's a great guy, vote for him.&quot; That's far more persuasive on TV or anything I can And so this is my thing. to light rivers on fire-- - That was his idea. - I'm not crazy. - Whose idea was that? - It was the Russian that said that. - I don't think we need to do (laughter) - What we need to do is And I promise you, that light I just think we all need to &quot;this year, around issues Whether it's science, or pick something, and be a patriot with love in pursuit of that end. of a change than you could ever imagine. (applause) - Count Basie Theater, give it to me! (applause) We are live, at Count Basie (applause) StarTalk! Let's make America smart again! All right. So, what I wanna know now is beyond. Do we have the policy in Or again, are we only that have happened in the past. So John, let me begin of your office was to have - Well, a lot. And in fact, you have on your list space exploration. When we entered office, in space exploration had gone out of NASA, a lot had gone out of NASA, we We said we were putting the science back in rocket science, in fact. - Did it work? - And we had a bit of a struggle? - That's a no. (laughter) - It worked, I'm sorry, it worked. - Okay, thank you. - We did rebalance NASA, - Just to be clear, you were - 8 years. - That's like longer than in the history of the universe. - Well, of course the history doesn't go back quite as far It goes back to the last to last term of Franklin D. Roosevelt. But I was the longest in that period. - Okay. So you had perspective? - Well, sure. And of and like you, I had been watching. I was a space geek when I was making solid fuel used lipstick tubes when I was 9. (laughter) They went about 100 feet I've been watching it for a long time. And it was a pleasure working with President Obama and working with Charlie Bolton, to get things done. - You made rockets out of lipstick tubes. - When I was nine I did that. background check, when and they found out that you - Well, yeah. That was a bit of a problem. But they decided to let me through. - Got one of those waivers. - You made rockets out of lipstick tubes. - Little solid fuel rockets. ingredients that made the solid fuel. I made time fuse, burned an inch a minute, so I could get away before it went off. - Next time I see six I'll know what they're up to. (laughter) - 101 things to do with lipstick tubes. - That's amazing. - Okay, I'm sorry. I was very - No, I apologize, it was my fault. - Yeah, okay I think I'm - We did get a lot done in More investments in the to go to Mars. You know, a lot of people to Mars tomorrow? Let's put the money in, and you know Neil, as well have the technologies to of Mars and bring them back. Of course, there are some who are willing to take a one-way trip. And some others who would be my candidates for a one-way trip. - We have a one-way trip right here. (laughter and applause) - So, your citing NASA, about the future, is NASA the repository of our future hopes among - No, it's only one. It just happens to be a particularly evocative by the way, inspires that nothing else in science does. At the big science fairs the two exhibits that always are NASA and robots. Those that get kids going about - So, how do you draw the you do that helps invent the future, and the research that you shouldn't be doing, should be doing that as part of their R&amp;D. Where's that line? It's gotta be somewhere in there. - Well, there is the fairly obvious line. In fact, the corporate sector funds more than two-thirds of all but they fund less than The fundamental research from which all the future applied-- - The long horizon research. - And the reason the private is perfectly understandable. Time horizon is too long, the return is too uncertain, that if there's a breakthrough that they, the corporation will get the benefits. - But I always hear in Congress-- - The government needs needs to do that sort of basic research, needs to fund it, or it won't get done. - Yeah, when that happens, and says, &quot;Why is tax &quot;on this research that has no application &quot;to any known thing on Earth?&quot; - What are examples of some - Yeah, I'll give you some. The nature of basic where it's gonna go. Great example, Charles Townes for thinking up the and then the laser, had no that 50 years later, we do eye surgery, cut metal, major distances, none of that was obvious at the time the work was done. - We even measured distance - I think lasers are - There's another great example. There was a science project funded by the National Science was called The Sex Life of the Screw Worm. - Yeah. - Sex Life of the Screw Worm. - That's a real worm? - Real worm. - Guess what it does. (laughter) - And a lot of fun was made I think it got Senator's in fact-- - The award given to the greatest - And the fact is, the screw that did some hundred million every year to the livestock And this basic research, on led to a means of biological which basically eradicated With immense savings to the US economy. - Was that just a Like shouldn't it have been called like Save Our Agriculture Business research? You can't vote against that. - The people doing the that that would be the of basic research. - And then they put condoms - Safe sex for screw worms, (laughter) - The solution was actually - Really? - The solution was 'cuz it turns out that the the female only mated once. And if the female mated - She was done. - Then, no offspring. And so the idea-- - And she still had a good tush. - If you just release a ton-- (laughter) you just release a ton of sterile males, and the screw worm goes out of business. - That's brilliant. - I can't believe we talking about the screw worm. - They do the same thing (laughter) - I apologize. - No, that's fine. - You asked for an example. - But we know Cory, that both sides of the branches, - Absolutely. There's people that don't. - How do we get them to appreciate it? - Again, that's the political process. That's the sort of sausage making, or screw worm funding process. - It's not just education, it's - No it's not. - Why can't he stand up, I give three others, and Why doesn't that convince people? Is there missing part of where the receptors that might change their mind? - Again, this is a process of competing demands, and there are people that are dead set against And don't get the larger picture. - Is it 'cuz they dug in - With respect Neil-- - No, I don't ever want you to respect me, just bring it out. I'll - Then with extreme disrespect, you're coming at this as a scientist, and you're leaning on have ever always been enough. Any parent knows that you why do they keep misbehaving? I told them, if this happens, this'll be 'Cuz we have emotions, and we wanna feel a sense of belonging. So I think some of these are being obstinate, information to close a case. And so it's an important first step, but you gotta build some - Okay, in the day, it was (laughter) That's how you convince someone, if the data didn't otherwise work. I'm just curious about that. of the government other than NASA. I don't know if they but DARPA is something Defense Advance Research - Agency. - And there's DARPA-E. - Huh? - There's DARPA-E. Which is? which I'm very interested in. It's investments in alternative energy. - So E for energy. - Yes. - So these are funded by - Yes. - Okay. - DARPA-E is funded by - Okay, but neither of them - Oh they are. - OSTP has oversight of all - No matter who's doin' it. - No matter who's doin' it. - Oh, okay. - And we work together with in developing the president's budget for science and technology. You said robots get everybody's attention at the science fairs. - Oh absolutely. - And I know DARPA's - Absolutely. - What? - Yeah. (laughter) You made it sound naughty, but anyway. Would it help to just as a weapon? - Yes. But look, I mean one of the reasons why we can get a lot of through the Department of easier to get people to fund than it is to get them to fund - Because they're evoking - If the screw worm was a - Right. There is a about defense spending And this idea of should there and the like? But I just have a question, here and it's something when you talk about Isn't there a real threat a naturally occurring one that could really knock out - Yes, is the short answer. - You happy now? - I'm not happy, I'm one of these people that wants to see more infrastructure-- - Tell everyone about the e-impulse. - Wait, is &quot;The Matrix&quot; real? (laughter) - Right, matrix had an - Robot squids that eat people. - The squidy things, is - The Sentinels, you guys The Sentinels. - So there are two kinds One is if you explode a among many other things of electromagnetic energy that can fry the electronics in your in the controllers of the So that's one of the many good reasons not to explode nuclear - Is that it will ruin your phone. - It will ruin your phone. (laughter) - And it would be ruined, like - Didn't the Nokia 7 have - Yeah. - No, Samsung 7. - Samsung 7. - But the natural version is when a solar storm-- - A solar flare. - A solar flare, throws charge particles in the direction of the with the Earth's magnetic a pulse of electromagnetic And that too, can fry your and everything else. - This has happened? - It has happened. - On a massive scale. - It happened in Canada. - Thank goodness. - It's happening in modern times, it happened in a part of Canada. But it also happened, late 19th century-- - Yeah. That was so severe, over a very large area. But there wasn't much electrical equipment in those days. - Right. - And so it didn't do that much damage. - But we know that if an occurred today, it would be devastating. - It could cripple our country. - So we're at war with the sun. - As a result of that possibility, we have invested now substantial effort in trying to build a multi-prong strategy to protect us from those kinds of events. That strategy includes sensors to give us early warning. the ability to disconnect on warning very quickly. that we should be doing, and that we do, that we're not yet doing. - Right. - And that's something that I'm very glad you're interested in. - No, this is my point, there's too much that - Okay, that's not all you (laughter) - Well, we should be worrying - Yeah, when's this happening? (laughter) - We don't know. - Does it detect Mardi Gras? - Not predictable. - So there's not only about AI running amuck. And does the United States in this, the future of this technology? - So we've basically gone from &quot;The Matrix&quot; to - Yeah. (laughter) - Both happy movies. - In my regular life, about Like a one out of ten? Like a six? - So AI, let me ask you this, all right. We had Ray Kurzweil as And I was delighted by that conversation, because I had only known of him from what other people wrote. You know, I finally got the horse's mouth, and I love the guy to no end. Just, he's a deep thinker, he's brilliant, and so what I ask, there's a lot of talk about connecting human in some way, so that your processing the world. And, as a real thing coming down the line? - I think so, I don't think it's-- - Yes? - Yes, I don't think it's imminent. I think that's a way, ways off. - But we're steps there that you can put inside a monitor, distribute could literally sit at a close to that, and be able to based upon the information they're getting over distances about what's - That's precision medicine, we were talking about it before. - But AI, now is making decisions Right? So the big fear is that I said, &quot;We better behave. &quot;consciousness, we wanna &quot;as possible to exterminate us.&quot; Okay? - People are clapping - No, I think they agree. Right? - Like don't worry, autos will save us. (laughter) - So, is there an agency - That's John's area. - Yeah, I mean we had many, about AI, many of them who's very interested in - Did he write a paper on it? - It has an upside, in terms of increasing the capacity to get a lot And has a downside, like many technologies if it's misused, if it it could be problematic. how do you manage the in a way that gets the benefits while minimizing the dangers. But, my own view, is that the dangers, as we currently understand The proposition that in some general sense, sometime soon, is not believed in the field. There's some There are many that think it won't happen. That doesn't mean we shouldn't be vigilant in trying to figure out doesn't evolve in a way - But can I tell you where and is real? Is that our enemies, sorry Eugene, like Russia-- - I'm from America. Just to be clear. (laughter) - Sorry to put you-- - I mean I'll blend in if they win, but... (laughter) - So we have a real problem in this country with cyber attacks. And one of the areas is now being used, look beat us tank for tank, we spend more money on than the next 6, 7 countries combined. But where they can now offer with a massive cyber attack, that are being made in hacking And AI is being used, by the Chinese and the Russians, as a way of having a far more intelligent way, where the computer can about what the defenses are of a system, and better break into them. And so, what you see are, our competitors, and remember it's not who's doing extraordinary jobs stealing business using these very all these new, next generation sort of technologies and innovations, against us, and beating us to the punch. It's a massive that we should be very - So that would come under But the Department of and the DARPA-E, is it seems to me, to attract to solve that problem. - Well, I don't think that's quite right. The Department of Defense includes The National Security Agency, employs more PhD mathematicians than any other organization in the world. - They got it. - They are thinking about AI extensively. As is DARPA, which has a I'm not saying there's no problem, I agree with the Senator, It's a big area of competition. Our adversaries are very busy, we're very busy too, by the way. And AI can be used to just as it can be used by our so this is an ongoing-- - So we could put our AI against their AI, and then just let them or something. - That would be good, yeah. - All right, let me just get Each of you left academic posts to serve in the White House. And you became sort of a of needs. Each of you, - Well for me, there were two factors. One was John Holdren, the - Okay, well-- - They were totally impressive intellects committed to science and when we first talked about the position, that working for this beyond all else for a It was an honor to work so much about science. (applause) - So 9 years ago, what were you thinking? - Well, first of all, I to meet President Eisenhower's second term science advisor George Kistiakowsky And he became one of my a lot from him about his Then I met Jerry Wiesner, who and he became a mentor. every science advisor from Eisenhower on-- - So if you didn't get that job-- - So I had a secret ambition as a result of all those interactions that I might someday be a president's science advisor, and I just happened to president in modern times, (applause) - If there were a president but asked you to be his what would you say? - Well, it would depend on the president. - Why? If you're asked to advise them, why should it depend on the president. It depends on you. - No, you have to believe that You have to believe-- - Wait, wait, a minute, if if you're not even in the room, they're clearly not listening to you because you're not in the room. - No, that's true. - So then, there's a chance if you're in the room. - You have to figure out whether you're gonna be more effective advising or more effective pursuing - From outside. - You have to make that decision. - It can't always work to (laughter) - Can I just say something that's extraordinary and The whole idea of our country in The Declaration of Independence, which, this genius document it referred to Native Americans as savages and all the flaws of the genius that they had flaws. But they at the end, where they the idea of this nation, like other countries 'cuz we or are descended in the same way. The idea of this country of ideas and principles. it was a tenuous way of forming a nation. And so what these two to me, is what our founders If this country's gonna make we have to have an unusual that goes beyond just or kind of admiring each we have to commit to each other. And this is the final words of The Declaration of Independence, &quot;We must mutually pledge &quot;our fortunes, and our sacred honor.&quot; And it's something we Are we living our lives this way? These folks, and they were they could've probably a lot more resources-- - You don't get rich - You do not get rich. But you know what, my love of my commitment of my fortune, will be to this nation's goodness. And it's been those folks, who throughout history, who into the history books, had this commitment. the greatest infrastructure most of whose names aren't Those people who, I can't name the people, who whether they stormed or sat in laboratories innovations that I use every And so I just wanna thank them publicly, because they don't often before a huge audience. - Hardly ever. - Hardly ever, to get and celebration they deserve. Thank you very much. - Let's bring up the house we'll do this for like 20 minutes. We got a few minutes. I don't know, do we have microphones? There's a microphone on the aisle there. And we have another Okay, so who's the first person up? Right there, okay. Go ahead. Wait, wait, you turn that on. Hang on. (indistinct chatter) Yeah, we got it now. Go ahead. - [Audience Member] We - Just wait wait, how old are you? - [Audience Member] Uh, 6. - Wait, how old are you? - [Audience Member] 6. - You're 6? - [Audience Member] Yes. - Well, welcome to StarTalk. too much grown up language here. Yeah, sometimes we do. I apologize. But I bet we didn't use any language that you'd never heard So I bet. So what is your question? Hold the microphone right - [Audience Member] We to supernovas, how do super - Oh, yeah. (applause and laughter) - It's a little off topic, kid. (laughter) - Senator, can you answer that for me? (laughter) So, high mass stars, when they die, they leave behind a You wanna avoid that. But there'll be many of but there are black holes than that, one per galaxy And those we call super And we don't really have a (laughter) - So, I can't help you. But, if you are asking that question now, here's the challenge. When we are born, the parents teaching us to walk and talk, and then they spend the rest of our lives telling us to shut up and sit down. Clearly, in your case, your curiosity is burning within you. If you carry that you may be the first person to discover how super massive black holes occur. (applause) - Right over here, yes. - [Audience Member] Hello everyone there on the panel. Well firstly let me say, you don't believe in hope, that we've probably all heard since before Christmas, are built on hope. So also, I you had mentioned about that we have throughout New Jersey, and I wanted to also discuss with you, since this is the Garden State and we like to do a lot more of our own gardening and you had mentioned to a plant-based diet. Many of the things that we use in our own yards are not good for the environment, they're that we're eating, and they're that we use in our own gardens. And what are you doing, as a senator, to help us bring more ecologically sound and more environmentally sound things to our own gardens, that pushed as they should be. - That's a great question. what kind of things can we that will matter globally? Is that a fair extension of that question? - Sure. So I just want everybody to know that there's a Farm Bill - Yeah! - It was days when I came into the Senate that I voted against it, One, it made a massive cut to food stamps, but also because they to these massive corporations who engage in farming practices that polluting our rivers, our tax dollars, tell Americans not to eat. tells you not to eat this stuff, and then we're subsidizing so that when kids in, to Newark tonight, when kids and see a Twinkie product it's because we're subsidizing that stuff. And the reality is, then Type II Diabetes as children, and we have to subsidize that health care. So what I'm saying is, needs a lot of repair. So what I believe and exciting me that you're asking this question, I started when I was of locally grown, locally sourced things. And we should be encouraging in our communities. The some stuff in there I think that was good about locally grown, organic stuff, but I think more of it should be. So the end of the answer, I would say is find out what's happening Farm reauthorization You're one of my constituents, I have a group of people on my staff about this Farm to support the kind of local - And New Jersey is one of and urban farming. Yeah, in local farming, And urban farming, in fact we created Newark as the largest-- - Wait that's a thing, urban farming? - Oh, absolutely. - Acres and acres, it's a good and exciting stuff is Roof gardens, there's a AeroFarms, which uses very All these innovations, less water, it's really exciting stuff. - Let's see if we can answer because we have a thousand Yes, right here. - [Audience Member] This but especially Jo, as a female scientist. I have three daughters And they start off really and they wanna know about black holes and my daughter, my oldest, And she has won in her elementary And she thought it was the coolest thing, and was still into science, you can see that tapering off. And the disinterest, but for her in science. that we keep that and especially for women? Because I work in a job of women either, but that's construction. How do we keep the women when they're not encouraged to do so? - Well, I think that's a great question. And we can all play a role girls to do it, and One of the reasons that girls turn away from science in middle to come to grips with being women, and they think well I have because they often don't see examples of normal, healthy, exciting or have kids or do whatever And so, one of the things we and that I continue the image of science and And I think they can play an enormous role in inspiring our girls and just by showing the whole and the jobs that they do. On a small scale, we and show them examples. (applause) - Yes, over here. - [Audience Member] I've spoken to you once before, you probably don't remember me. (laughter) But I know this is slightly off topic, I was wondering if I (laughter) - No, she's talking to you. - Oh, my autograph. Oh. (cheering) If you leave something with an usher, I'd be happy to do it after the show. - All right. - I'd be happy to do it. And Or does that say something else on it? - It's a rogue NASA shirt, - Cool. Yeah it's in the spirit So give something for and I'd be happy to do so. - All right. - Okay. - Am I allowed to ask a question? - Did you also have a question? - Um yes, really quick if I could ask. - Try to keep the questions quick so we can get through the line, go. - If I could ask Senator Booker-- - Yes. - I was just thinking, about this before. For like what could we possibly do Like I've been to a is there anything else can do since we're the future of politics and science. - Can I? - Go ahead. - No, can I add to that? Why is it that the most effective protests are only the ones that turn violent, 'cuz then they make more - I disagree completely - I do too. - The most effective protests are the ones that forge connections and ones that change the narrative of how the media covers an issue. encourage people to follow by voting, by running by joining a local group that is embedded in their community. So the it's often a distraction forged by people who don't wanna see change happen. That is not an effective and it's disruption by For young people who wanna yo just be curious like Neil said. Run for something. Represent Whether it's, like, your school board within your school itself, to represent others, that's And you're living what And that's the best way to kinda change the world around you. Stop and do what the Senator at the level that you can (applause) - I got you man, I got you. (laughter) - The protege. Okay quick, - [Audience Member] So I've for 8 years. - Whoa, public school teacher, give it up. (applause) - [Audience Member] Are this is kind of abstract, but are they evolving quicker than our brains And how can I catch up with my lessons to get them engaged with this? You know, once they take So can you help me out Anybody? - This is a biological thing here. (laughter) Jo, you got a biological reply to that? - Well, you have the wisdom - [Audience Member] Thank you. - There's no hope. - You were right. (laughter) - All right, quicker. - [Audience Member] Here! - Oh, we got some people - Wow. - Oh, we have a microphone up there, I didn't see that I'm sorry. Okay, let's do it right there, let's go. - [Audience Member] Hi, ooh. (laughter) - I hear you. - [Audience Member] I'm glad you do. I work at the Motion Center and I'm wondering what policy and science can do for the welfare of - Wow. - Ooh. (applause) - This is a broader health issue. Correct? - Yeah there's exciting things for-- - I think there are really exciting things coming forward using for what people can't do, either because of age or disability. And I think that technology developing fast in the next few years, because the demand for as our citizenry ages. So I for those kinds of questions. look at how people actually studies that use virtual reality to study how people actually live in their homes, or wherever they live, and around that. And I think than trying to imagine how people live. Which is unfortunately, has been done in the past. - Plus, there'll be a difference between supporting someone and then repairing the - Right. - Which in principle, - Yes. we live active lives, until we die. Rather than active lives until we get infirmed, and then stay - Right. - I might add that it we're 3D printing new organs, that now exists for transplanted organs will become a thing of the past, because we can 3D print new organs. The second thing of note, for nerds-- - What? (laughter) - Yep. - Okay, that's cool. - That's what's happening. - Your printer at home, is - Oh, it's different? - But it's happening. - I was gonna say, mine - It takes more toner than usual. (laughter) - And for the nerds out in this particular question, of advisors on science and in the past year on technology Which doesn't address all of the question the questioner had in mind, And that report is online - Okay, cool. (applause) Let's take another one from up top, yes. - [Audience Member] So I actually go to an and I was just wondering, what do you think your opinion out of college after graduation to make those changes in the (laughter) - Do you wanna enter? Do you wanna become a - I'm actually an at Stevenson. - That's good, so you're there. - I also have a tattoo of me for, that's okay too. (laughter) - Pluto had it comin', so (laughter) So, are you asking, what To be in service as my two esteemed colleagues here have been? - Yeah because, you know, you're applying for endless internships, there's just what do you guys think that-- - How do you get in? How do you get in? - Well, it's interesting. First of all, depending on for some of the very in science and public policy the American Chemical Society fellowships, but the other thing you present yourself at an office. We hired some folks at OSTP and said we'd like to help. and said we're so interested in helping, we'll help for nothing. We (laughter) And some of them did such wonderful work we decided to pay them. So you basically need to step up. And have confidence that and talk about what you wanna you may well get a post, - One policy request that 'cuz it's something I'm STEM subject person, frankly college folks in New Jersey really face go into public service you should not have college debt. And it's something we stepping up and removing these barriers. Because again, our competitors, Germany, and I could go through the lowering the cost of So thank you for your desire to serve, and this nation should be liberating you from the tens of thousands that our average college graduates carry. - And I wanna pick up There aren't for so many jobs that you see that have high luminosity, that guarantees you will Often, it is the tenacity of the person who ultimately occupies that So, you can't be an actor &quot;a famous actor just like this person, &quot;what do I need to do? I'll 'Cuz what they did might to that point. You the unique path for you. And, is it interning that actually has people in Washington who are talking to members of Congress? So it's not a pre-scripted, it's not a pre-scripted route. And it takes the tenacity at each point, at each pivot point of your career, to ask yourself, what do I need to do? Whether or not someone - Well, a great example everybody who had his job before him. (laughter) So stalking, like - You get the list of people to stalk. (indistinct chatter) - Neil, I have one more question. - Hmm? - Can I possibly get a picture with you in that awesome vest? - Oh. (laughter) - Here it is. (laughter) - Selfie from a distance. - Afterwards? I'm wearing a - Almost every shirt that exists out there with my face on it, is Reign that in. So if you come down, I'll be here and you can take a picture, okay? All right, we only have more questions before we call it quits. Let's go, right here, yeah. - Speed round. - [Audience Member] about making America smart again, but every time I go online, that's rampant, and a You know, conspiracy we didn't go to the moon, How can we as a society combat that really irrational stupidity? (applause) - Let me offer a reflection, to my panelists here. So, the Internet, is the there ever was. But you that no matter your thought, you will find everyone else in the world who has as crazy a thought validating what you think is real. Because of how many other And so, the search engines, do you realize? (laughter) Do you really wanna search this? (laughter) Will you take this breathalyzer I mean, you know what's missing? Internet savvy 101 in school. All right, somewhere in that some information is more likely to be true than others, At some point we need to learn that. And it's not in the K last I checked. So that's a problem. this is a free country. fake what you want. You wanna go right ahead. But try if you think that way, okay? Plenty of jobs for you if you wanna think the Earth is flat. Plenty So, yeah. If this keeps what the future of the country is if this kinds of anti-scientific becomes sort of infectious, that we just go over the waterfall. - We gotta be the antibiotics then. Match the lies with truth. It's just like technologies it's a neutral platform are getting on, it's a contest of ideas, and we've gotta match And be purveyors of it. (applause) - Next up, yes. - [Audience Member] what your thoughts were on and the possible recent for the first time. will it look the way we think it looks? Do you think they'll be - So Cory, can you take this? - Sure. - No, I actually know very About photographing black are not very photogenic. Because they're black. - That's racist. - Oh that's racist? - I don't like this one (laughter) - But black holes can render by indirect means. For example, in the flaying are spiraling down within style sucking action radiates copiously in ultraviolet and x-rays. telescope and an x-ray all across the galaxy. So, it's just a testament of science that demonstrate that we are biologically endowed with are wholly inadequate to decode the actual operations of nature. And so, that's what telescopes do for us. But otherwise, I'm not up on I'm embarrassed, I should know. But I like to be candid in my ignorance. So, there it is. - Thanks for not trying to pass laws based on that ignorance, I appreciate that. - Oh, yeah. If you're ignorant, yeah, you should just be self aware of that. And not try to create (laughter) Let's go up top, one more time. - [Audience Member] Hi. Oh wow. I'm a high school senior and next year I'm going to school to study physics, in a large part due to you and the things that you put out there, so thank you. - My question's for Someone once told me, out of something they didn't How do you fight that, whether it's evolution or - Yeah, I think that And so, I think it implies that winning an argument involves reason. But winning an argument Right? If someone doesn't you just invite them to buy And then you step back. (laughter) They convert very quickly, to lay down a single argument. So I think there are that don't involve logical arguments. And we need to be more might be best invoked given the And I, as an educator, of energy, mental energy, thinking about what are the thought pathways that occupy the person who And I then align what I'm trying to say with those thought pathways, send information into you on a level where you can take ownership of it. And you can say, &quot;Wow, I &quot;Oh my gosh, I figured it That takes a key, and key for every single person. And that's hard. That's a from an educator than a chalkboard hoping and pick it up and - A piece of advice, real quick from me, and I learned this the I finally had this aha moment. So this is simply the piece of advice. You do not have to attend every argument that you are invited to. (laughter and applause) - We've got another, a person here. By the way, you have one of the very few official shirts Yes, go on, a question. - [Audience Member] I, as and many other middle are being told to sit down Why is that? And what could we do about it? - Stand up and shout. (laughter) - Yeah, so you're in middle school now? - Yes, I am. In eighth going into high school soon. - Yeah, yeah. So your teachers are saying, the good students are the - [Audience Member] Yeah, to a point. Some allow questions, - Yeah. So one of the challenges to the middle school hormonially crazy at this point. (laughter) (Neil stutters) Hormonally out of control. (laughter) - True that. - You know, I can't go in there But if you know that your for life and exploration is a good thing, then sure, behave in class. But when you get out of class, misbehave. You have my permission to do that. Do you realize in a few years Don't ask me about it until it comes out. I'm gonna publish a book, that will contain my And it will contain school teachers, who complained constantly that my energy was disrupting the class. I was a bad student, for that reason. And I was not the teacher's pet. The teacher's pet was got high grades, and the teacher said. And I had this energy, and I would crack jokes, and and I would bring the urban (laughter) - Basically a rat? - So none of those teachers None of them. - Did you bring street rats to class? (laughter) Were you trying not to say that? - I was trying to figure out that too. - That's not cool. - So, like I said, you outside of school than in of school. So use the time outside all you want. And there's something greater than every single command that (applause) - Forgive me, but we have time only for one more question, I'm - I just wanna say to that young lady, can I just say real quick, You don't have to go But look, there are a lot of times, even as a United States shut up and be silent. And there are times when I don't want to be, and you said it in the larger context. But allow someone authority, you have to to go through life, they but never let them silence your spirit, that has got to continue, (applause) - Ladies and gentlemen, the I'm sorry for everyone else online. Yes, go. - [Audience Member] Hello. - Hello. - I wanted to ask, like, a Like something that you-- - Yes. - There we go. - So I'm in an honors lab so we have a current every 15th of the month, so I found one that had to do with bacteria in your mouth could have something And it mentioned microbiology in there and I wanted to know how could it affect cellular division and something like that. - Well, I don't think we in that specific case, but there are a lot of proposals for how things like cell division And partly it's the things they produce. They produce chemicals, can then induce cells And in other cases, some other organism into the human system that then induces something else. So there are a lot of different not so direct. But we, I think, a little bit more about those. One that came out really that bacteria, they get out of the gut, sometimes because of sometimes will incite an immune response that ends up killing a tumor. that nobody ever anticipated for suppressing cancer. - Also, recently, didn't you successfully, not you necessarily, successfully fecal transplant? - Yes, I was hoping you'd talk Yo, hit 'em with it. (laughter) - You take poop out of in another person and - Yep. - That is nasty. - I've done it. (laughter) Not literally. - So these microbiomes are doing way more than we ever imagined. - Absolutely. And keeping us healthy is the biggest thing next time someone calls them germs. - We'll call them microbes. - Microbes. Good microbes. - Wasn't there a book - Yes. (laughter) But I think it was retitled (laughter) - &quot;Microbes and Human Beings.&quot; - There you go. (applause) - So let me just go down the line here, before we close this out. And just, one by one if you could, what would be your recipe for Just... Eugene. (laughter) (audience member yells) - I don't know what he said. (laughter) Yeah, I guess voting. - Voting. - Voting for science. like the Science March. (cheering) - The people that are to the Science March. - I'm optimistic. In the end, I think that you can forward good things. And over time, it will work. So I think Science March is-- - These immigrants are so hopeful. - I am very hopeful. I'm also sitting on a stage with you guys joking around. - Immigrants, they get the job done. - I believe in the - Ophira. - You know, I think we talk a lot about like right now, everyone's stressed out by what's going on, they're &quot;deal with the climate? Self care. I'll go &quot;to do some meditation and yoga.&quot; I think we have to stop I think we have to focus on other people and our community and think outside of ourselves more often, and think about how we are together, down and going, &quot;Ten minutes of head space &quot;is gonna make it all better.&quot; - Okay. (applause) - John. - I'm gonna build on what Ophira has said, and suggest, as I've done elsewhere, that everybody who is in or who cares about science and technology should tithe 10% of their time, Tithe 10% of their time to to engaging on how and why to our society, to our What science is, how it of credibility in science to preserve and protect science. We need all of us to about this, to be activists, to be engaged in the policy process. (applause) - Baratunde. - Thank you for having me here. No I'm serious, it's to be on stage with these civil servants. Whether it's the comedic and I'm humbled to be a part of this. I wanna echo what Eugene at a meeting of the organizers And one of them cited a Neils Bohr quote, quantum physics pioneer, but he essentially described science as the steady reduction of prejudice. And if you think about you constantly challenge and replace it to what - Wow. - And if you're not that's not science. So we've been challenged up here, I encourage folks out there to do it. And I think what's coming whether it's you know, is a testament to something much larger than the politics of the moment. It's about the larger pursuit of science, which is the reduction (applause) - Cory. - I guess I just would encourage people to, as Eugene said, to be people of hope. What I mean by that, is I has been some of the most as a senator. And it's looks great, but I spent 8 years living in these high rise projects in Newark, and the tenant present murdered in the lobby of the she was one of the most And basically what she taught me was, that hope doesn't exist in the abstract. It's always a response to despair. It's saying that despair And that hope also is not a being word. You don't just sit in a Hope is an active, it's a working to create that belief And so my hope is that of my country, whether or how the healthcare was beat back. Not by Republican and Democrat, who just said there is no way that And so right now, my prayer those ten two letter words. That this country will succeed or fail based on those ten two letter words, and those ten two letter words are if it is to be it is be an agent of hope. And (applause) - Jo. - One of the things I was when we talked about about science. It was or inspiration. And I to explain science and teach not fear mongering, but or people's imaginations and inspiration. And it can't be just and discovering new cures. that to all of science. And But I would challenge all How do we inspire people for knowledge, which is (applause) - All right if I could offer I mean, you guys said almost So, you really left me with nothing. I got nothing now. But let me share with you. Personally, I try not to have hope. Because hope is the confession that you have no control of the outcome. And I don't ever wanna I wanna say to myself, &quot;some access to, some control over.&quot; And lemme reiterate again, I don't beat back politicians. There's something else deeper than that. In our K through 12 system, what do we do? I think we view students as these vessels. Where you unzip their brain, their head, and pour information in for 12 years. And then you zip it back and send them off. And so we think that being When somewhere in there, how to question knowledge, and evidence. These are We don't even have to call it science. Let's just call it curiosity, but a kid who had never really grew up. All right. It's a kid, who in adulthood, retained child-like curiosity. And when you retain child-like curiosity, anything that happens before And you say, well why are Can't it happen this way? Well let me research that. And if you, in addition to being trained how to think about information, if somehow we can retain your curiosity, from childhood through adulthood, retain that curiosity, then Lifelong inquisitors. many more years outside How many people do we know, the last day of school you take your books and throw them into the air As though that's the where you no longer have to learn. That's a failure of You should come outta school &quot;curious, can I go back &quot;I can keep learning?&quot; And I think that if we of people that are curious into adulthood, then you will never elect someone who just states things that are not true. That would never happen. (applause) You would build into the system curiosity. And where does the politic turn? The politics layers on top of that. So you don't say, &quot;There We know there is. So now that we know there is, let's have the political conversation. Are there carbon credits? Do you subsidize? Or do you put up tariffs? That's where the politics needs to happen. Not at any level below that. So my sense of this is, you wanna make America great, you and to make it smart, we have to retain the curiosity that we all had as children. And that way, we can into an innovation nation. - Amen. (applause) - Red Bank, New Jersey, And I've been your host, and my guests. Baratunde, the senator, Jo, John, Ophira, Eugene. Thank you all New Jersey! (applause) As always, keep looking up. (upbeat music)