I'm that Mr. Beat guy. I mean it's true. the presidential election of the 2020, and 2012. One thing that probably stands out tends to support the Republican candidate. You keep going back, and in election (2008) majority of folks in the South are Well hold up, that's a little different there. The 1996. Oh and even better in 1992. Well but he in the South. Let's go back further. See, now and...uh... pretty much all of the country is for the Reagan. Ok, keep going back. Ok what the heck now Carter. I'm getting confused here. Keep going Oh interesting, that's right, George Wallace, Democratic Party, is now dominating the South "segregation now, segregation And the Deep South is all for the Republican is for the Democrat Lyndon Johnson in 1964? votes going to the Democrat Harry Byrd, And in the 1950s the majority of folks in the So what is going on here? (There's it's the most famous political party switch of You see, from the 1950s all the way up to Southerners stayed the same, the political did not. In the 1950s, most Southerners were conservatives. In the 1990s, most Southerners were conservatives. But in the 1950s, most of and by the late 1990s, most of these But let's go back even further. After the Republican Party was first established in Northern states. By the 1880s, Republicans, had mostly abandoned their efforts and that's why you got results like this and this But flash forward to the Populist Movement and reforms were so much in style that both so much that by the time the Republican John Davis for President in 1924, many people so they fled to a third more RADICAL And then a few years later, the Great Party. In the 1930 midterm elections alone, the and 52 seats in the House of Representatives. how the Democrat Franklin Roosevelt easily in the presidential election of 1932, but did seats in the Senate and 97 seats in the House of And African Americans, who had traditionally that was the party that had historically Democrats. In fact, in the election of 1936, this may seem a bit puzzling, as a big chunk of Jim Crow laws and literally supported the Ku Klux a party that not only allowed racist policies Well, to put it simply, they liked FDR and bringing up civil rights issues to not and despite FDR's New Deal programs barely loved him anyway mostly because he seemed to be so service to issues African Americans cared about. for example. His New Deal programs sounded a president Africans Americans mostly supported, name of Theodore Roosevelt. Plus, by the 1930s Party as the party committed to organized labor, Flash forward to 1948, and the Democratic than it used to be. They added civil rights "The Democratic Party is responsible for the in eliminating unfair and illegal discrimination but Democrat president Harry Truman the military. All of this made a lot of Southern started a new political party, called the of this party became known as Dixiecrats. of racial segregation in the South and allow And then, in 1954, a pretty, (pointing). You know about this one, Yeah Brown v. The Board of Education remaining Southern Democrats. Watch my Wait, some of you haven't watched it yet? But yeah, it said racial segregation was we know of today as the Civil Rights Movement and while most Republicans supported the And now it's time to talk about something is not even real. And that, my The Southern Strategy was a real Republican Party among white voters in the South by appealing Americans. Most historians point to its origin a document written in 1956 in response to for an opposition to racial integration of public saying the federal government should stop trying Representatives, all from the South, almost didn't sign it was Texas U.S. Representative perhaps he could see which way the tide was 1956 as a pro segregationist, which got him took notice of his victory. Over the next Republicans to attempt to block civil rights the Civil Rights Act of 1960, and the So now, the next time you're at a party, you can acts passed just a few years before the 1964 one. Anyway, the most famous example of Southern Republican is them teaming up to support Barry in the presidential election of 1964. Now, but not because he was racist. In fact, he in desegregation efforts. He even supported the Amendment, which eliminated the poll tax. He just Act of 1964 was unconstitutional and gave the Wait a second, are you? Are you not watching Put those dishes down and watch this video. So even though the Democrat Lyndon Johnson, or presidential election, he was worried that his him more and more supporters in the South, and he to run for President again in 1968, he hoped to Well he didn't get many because remember? segregation forever" dude, George Wallace snatched The term "Southern Strategy" is Kevin Phillips, who didn't come up with, In 1970, The New York Times published "From now on, the Republicans are never going vote and they don't need any more than that... but enforcement of the Voting Rights Act. The more the sooner the Negrophobe whites will That's where the votes are. Without that prodding their old comfortable arrangement with the local to get Southern Democrats to switch to Republican. But it would be a slow process. The Republican Party really started to convert elections by making "states' rights" part targeting pro-integration and pro-civil rights no not that one, his dad, Albert Gore Sr., as a integration and civil rights. It worked, and Gore Still though, overall the Republican South. It's almost like people Even so, Nixon was amazingly able to win ALL Democrat George McGovern in the election of the South. That is, until the Watergate Scandal, in the country, not just the South. Plus, in Jimmy Carter, so he did pretty well in the and civil rights. Besides, he called for an end and he purposely limited his campaign But there's another piece of the puzzle that I the first presidential election after another In Roe v. Wade, the Supreme Court ruled woman's liberty to have an abortion. Watch Wait some of you haven't watched it yet? more effective than the Democratic Party Christians mostly on the issue of abortion. And historically had a lot of socially conservative most Republicans were actually pro-choice many Republican candidates declared themselves who got elected in 1976 across the country Like Jimmy Carter. And Al Gore, yes that got elected to Congress that year in a Southern but speaking out against federal funding for Flash forward to the 1980s, and now more and more Democrats are pro-choice. And of course, issue. Basically, it should be a state's right to And perhaps this is overblown a bit, but I have who admitted the Southern Strategy had kept most historians say much of it Oh I'm not saying dog whistles the term "dog whistle" refers to to increase support for something The idea is that you say stuff that seems once you dig deeper. In the case of the the party shifted their rhetoric to use dog Don't believe me? In 1981, Lee Atwater said the too? This is going to be age restricted. Ok quote by him. Y'all don't quote me on this. You start out in 1954 by By 1968 you can't say &quot;n-----r&quot;--that hurts you. states' rights and all that stuff. You're getting cutting taxes, and all these things you're and a byproduct of them is [that] Oof, that was something. Now, historians say Ronald Reagan even often Presidency. Heck, many Democrats also did. conservative Southern Democrats from And the younger Southerners no longer had Overall, the Southern voter didn't change even if it was a slow process. From the 1940s all the way up to the 1990s, ever since, they have been reliably racist Southerners really scared of integration So does that mean the Republican Party, especially racist today? I don't think it is. it became more Republican." Yeah so let's briefly look at the That's Dinesh D'Souza, a popular of his career saying that the party switch He has been extremely influential many other Republican Party pundits Most of them just attack a straw man like this or oversimplify history to back up their claims. But there's one thing these claims seem to have An agenda to make the modern Republican often Democrats bring up the Party Switch today Well wait a second, so Ben Shapiro But I will gladly point out when BOTH Party suck. In fact, they both suck And even Dinesh D'Souza admits the Party Switch the racist dog whistles. But as we've seen racist dog whistles...uh...at least played a role. Republicans today do acknowledge that the Party In fact, in 2005, the Republican National apologized to the NAACP for taking advantage of But that one guy is right. if you're a Southern Republican watching I mean, I don't know you, but I assume you're had a lot to do with the history of why the I'm losing my hair. No really. I try to cover But it's not just me. 2 out of 3 guys will by the time they're 35. The best way to prevent still have hair left. Well this video is a licensed doctor will review your information for you. Keeps offers generic versions so therefore it's AFFORDABLE. Their and Keeps has more 5-star reviews than to take action and prevent hair loss, go to the description to receive 50% off your first So this was supposed to be a ten minute video but the history of the Party Switch and the Southern deeper because it's often oversimplified. And supporters who donate at least $15 or more each month supporters, I've got alicia solberg andrew dr paul j lilly empty machine elijah nat and zach neor14 nick everett osboursgaming at the 15 a month or more level i've got aesthetic degen brian layton gail gerard jacob birnbaum joel serrano lozada kit walker robert reichel samuel strizz steve bryan thomas to all my patreon supporters because you know