Hey everyone! Today I'm going to be teaching learn in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, especially if you're really good players there. And on Snow Land, the actually just going to wait here at the start to but I turned the custom items to mushrooms only. aim for this snowman here, and then mushroom and saved [laughs] that saves over three seconds, and not going to win on Snow Land. In fact, back when get three mushrooms from the first set, and hold won on this track which was crazy. So, what you if you aim too far to the right, what's going to make it, but then you just get picked up cuz you this one, it's not that hard but it's also easy to jump, and I remember when this track first came not the gap jump was going to be possible, because Nintendo must have been listening cuz they made few super bounces you can do by drifting and mushroom. This is not necessary for the Gap jump mini turbo hop with the mushroom and we got it! the mushrooms without super bounces, it's just not you will skip the final mushroom, drift aim for of a rough one [laughs]. On DK Summit you don't the gap jump that skips over that entire S-bend. Uh the difficult way obviously is faster, so what off the last one, and then drift here, and are going to land right next to the boost panel S-bend. Back when I played on the 10,000 level for the shortcut and most people wouldn't, and me every single time and here is the easier way we go to the left side with a blue mini turbo, and then full left hop off the edge here, and you is a much easier way to take that shortcut. So joke, because, only lap three matters because of least triple mushrooms uh single mushroom won't and oh. So here what you want to do, um is you just use another one, and then use another one, you save so much time doing that shortcut. Now so if you only have one mushroom then what you just go for this glider, and then go over here and and go for this ramp, because with one mushroom is Hyrule circuit, which is going to be our first we're just going to be hopping over grass instead us take a shortcut right at the end. So I'll show to do is trick on the right side here, and then right there, and keep hopping until you're out of without losing any speed, it is crazy! it's super here's how to do the fastest version of this whole here, and then just land in a drift and go over it's harder and you need to practice it a lot if this shortcut is a bit different, you want So here what we're going to do, is just do a me see it tried it tried but it couldn't get me, on Hyrule circuit. Big Blue lap 2 has some crazy this is pretty much the original crazy shortcut here what we're going to do is drift off this edge right here [laughs] this one's not that This one? You have to do this one. It skips an multiple seconds doing that. And then on lap 3, big as well you want to go for a path switch. and then once you hit the first booster, you want here after the second booster you go off the edge in midair and there you go! That's the fastest way after the cannon you can do a path switch, this on the right path at first, and then here, drift charge an orange mini turbo when you land and this at how much distance I have saved on the map. this one's actually really easy. You just want to just hop off with an orange mini turbo. Super every single race. DK Mountain has a shortcut that this track. It is part of the normal lines on but first off we do have this shortcut if you do a mini turbo trick into a trick here, skip a I love that shortcut but then the the next one is some of these turns, and uh break drift a bit side, go down and then just fly off the edge and to the part where you go up the wall. Now that drifting off the edge instead of just driving but right at the end you start a drift, dodge this turbo because you're charging that drift as you a really easy one on Squeaky Clean Sprint on lap which is the slower path, but then on lap 2 and 3, another trick right here and then this is like way on the mini map how much of a shortcut this is. 3. There's this really interesting shortcut mark cloud on the final glider, and if you hit it let's aim right here, there we go! Okay, and see but some people didn't and they're still on the look at that! So this is a really important one, you don't want to go for the cloud, cuz someone want to go for the cloud at all. So if you're spot with a mushroom, and you think someone else cloud's in a really weird spot just don't go for do this! And that's pretty much as good as hitting everyone because no one else could take the tough, but if you can get this one consistently, want to do is get a purple mini turbo right here, super huge gap jump completely shroomless. There with that purple mini turbo, then two left hops, blue and gold panel, you have to have a mini most important parts and as long as you follow Next up we have an off-road skip on Mute City. Dragon Driftway one, but here I'm going to show that! And then you can here hold down, and you can so cool! But it's a really tough one. Even though here than even what I said in Dragon Driftway. So otherwise your mini turbo will last all the way to mini turbo on the ramp will cancel your speed. So and you have to hop at a very specific spot. So should be hopping because it's probably not where and the way to find it if you get close is see longer than the other lines around it? You want there's an uphill right here, where if you mini you're going to crash into the wall if you try to you are going to clear it and you have to hop make it, so we're going to try it right here. See but I didn't, because that is the correct spot of my favorites in this game and that's because These are like water floaty shortcuts. So uh the and uh float. So here I hold down to float but mini turbo, and look I got a purple mini turbo, that is like typically you don't come out with but then here we're going to have another of the we're going to drift off the end here, and float [laughs] and your your purple mini turbo fun and it's it's pretty easy too uh at least but the the third one coming up is the hardest I did not think I would because it's a water been holding back on water physics. They they just like way late into the DLC. All right anyway so And like that! Yep yep go between oh I love this with water physics earlier on into this game, I tracks, but it's just that they never made a good the most important one is at the end of the track. and then after this you hold one long drift and then hop over the tires! Perfect! There's because that's shroomless, you can do it every lap but you have to know when to hop. The secret is you hop earlier than that, you won't go over the you can do here, get a blue mini turbo here, in the grass, hop on the green part, trick off to the wall. This is my favorite shortcut in the it's just so much fun it saves a lot of time too is my favorite track in this game and part of can do for the driving, but also this one shortcut so what we do here is you drift off of this purple mini turbo, then you can hop into this it's awesome! On the halfpipe here, every time lets you stay closer to the top. That's called And yeah that's uh the most important stuff to I do the shortcut is after charging the purple of off-road but then close to the middle, I do a away. This makes it really easy to come out of the Kart Stadium has a whole bunch of shortcuts except for the one at the very end. So first we mini turbo in the off-road and then hop out come really not important at all, but uh I'm going to super duper important and this can win you races purple mini turbo here, and then trick in the the game doesn't pause but this menu does come Y and then unpause. Now hold down, mushroom, hold back left, and you just clear that entire shortcut the glider, which is just crazy! That is such create such hype moments and you know if everyone comebacks quite like that, but at least you won't you're using a GameCube controller, and just have faster version of it which is like this you go off and this lets you take advantage more of the shortcut, if you don't know it you will get bopped two golden mushroom strategies on Cheese Land. to go for the Bullet Bill, and do the bullet you get other items you know you can't always be then you want to make sure you know how to do all you with a golden mushroom, but of course you can The first one is at the end of the track, this this at the end. So you take this glider shortcut, and this saves a ridiculous amount of time, you do it with two mushrooms and then here, here you start spamming your golden. Now this can be done shortcuts right here, and then drift off of here, enough to take you all the way through the end. mushrooms, the whole track is a shortcut, shortcuts because good driving can only go so far you're maximizing these shortcuts. And finally whole track is a shortcut so bagging is a really but if you get any sort of mushrooms or stars, the item sets. And here, if you go for this items right afterwards you can take a MASSIVE two mushrooms. Uh if you want to skip the item really important to know where they are, and but, the most important shortcut comes right after and trick off that, and then you can do a one the right and keep going if you have a golden That is just ridiculous this track is crazy! And mushroom and then two mushroom and come out with a on this track. Check out the videos here for more have short videos for how to do each of these