- Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg, For years, we've all been told that these tech titans Visionary thinkers who earned their power through sheer intellect. But after what we've seen I think we finally need that these people are fucking idiots, and they have been the entire time. I mean, just look at what's happening. Self-proclaimed real just went billions into debt to buy his favorite bird and announced his new toy Boy emperor Mark Zuckerberg At the same time he's wasting $36 billion on a metaverse no one wants to use. And 30-year-old crypto Sam Bankman-Fried, but a massive fraud when FTX, evaporated into thin air, along with billions in Now, I hesitate to call anyone stupid. As an esteemed public intellectual, name calling is beneath me, but these people are the on the planet. And that's bad because they of our economy. And when we buy into their bullshit we enable them to fuck us And it has to stop now. Okay, before we get really into it I wanna thank all my supporters on Patreon for making this video possible. If you'd like to join them head Okay, off to the races! Let's start with the in the world, Elon Musk. (bright classical music) For decades, journalists, biographers, and fan boys have described who's propelling us into the next century. But his purchase of Twitter proves beyond a shadow of a doubt Dude bought himself a $44 billion toy and broke it on the first day. Why? Because he doesn't understand See, in order to buy Twitter, Elon took out more loans than The company is now on the in interest payments alone. And since Twitter was already that means that Elon right the fuck now. So he decides, &quot;Hey, people Let's make them pay for them.&quot; And this is simply staggeringly stupid. I mean, okay, he's right. Speaking as a member of the digital elite, we love our blue checks. I got mine in 2013 when I of VH1s &quot;Best Week Ever&quot; and I've treasured it ever since. Oh, look at that guy! He hasn't even ruined anything yet. By putting the blue check up for sale Musk destroyed its entire purpose and lost himself billions in revenue. See, the point of the blue check mark is that it allows everyone which accounts are run or organization they The day the new verified badge launched Twitter was deluged with verified tweets from George Bush bragging Super Mario giving the finger, and drug company Eli Lilly announcing that insulin was now free. Now, all three of those But the last one actually to plummet by 10%, losing Which again is hilarious Insulin should be free. But as a result, they canceled millions in advertising dollars they were going to spend on Twitter as did Twitter has spent the last building credibility and trust with brands so that they felt comfortable enough to, you know, advertise on a service known to most of us as a cesspool And Elon just burned it all down with one of his dumbass flame throwers for eight measly bucks. But hey, maybe he can make it up with all of that sweet Well, let's see, according about 140,000 accounts in the days after launch. So at $8 per account, that means the verification system brought in a little over a million Use that to pay down the 1.5 and that leaves, oh $1.5 billion. Elon would need 187 for Twitter Blue just and he's currently 0.07% of the way there. Good luck, bud. Hope that was worth destroying your company's sole source of revenue. On top of being terrible at at the one thing he's running a company. When Elon bought Twitter its employees, then realized you know, run the website. So he begged them to come back like a desperate ex-boyfriend who Elon treated people so in charge of trust and safety, privacy, information security, and Wuh-oh, that might be is currently under an FTC consent decree that requires them to strictly when they do things publish a new paid verification service. You know, I'm not a legal guy, but let me just check what the penalty is for violating that consent decree. Oh, says here, it's and potential jail time. Good luck with the feds, champ! So why is Elon Musk Simple, his carefully crafted public image as a genius innovator has been Elon didn't found Tesla. He used the money he got you know, the payment service that sucks, to buy a stake in Tesla. Then he kicked out the Martin Eberhard, and stole Martin's title. Not to mention his car. SpaceX does some some cool shit. But they're a government space contractor that makes their money And face it, Elon didn't He just brags about it on Twitter. And finally, there's Hyperloop Remember how Elon claimed of transportation that was Well, that turned into a where a Tesla drives Yeah, it's pretty slow. But you know, it could be to stumble from the Bellagio Elon is good, no, great trolling, causing chaos, and And he does all those things on Twitter, which seems to be the But you know what? If you're addicted to gambling, you probably shouldn't And now that Elon runs Twitter, he's running it straight into the ground. The site's become dangerously unstable and it's already ceased functioning in countries around the world. And I do need to point out, that as much as we all it is important as a It's a vital link to the outside world for people living under It's a professional to find work and it's how we was actually an earthquake or not. When Twitter collapses, it's Oh, Musk is gonna be fine. He'll still be a billionaire, around the world could soon just because this dumbass Speaking of dumbasses, Mark Zuckerberg. (bright classical music) For most of my adult as a brilliant prodigy. Mark created a social network of billions of people and built it into an impregnable super But in recent years, Facebook Mark's spent hauled before lawmakers to explain why he's stole customer data and undermined democracies Apple has blown a giant by allowing users to opt out And most importantly, TikTok has been kicking Mark's pasty ass. As a result, Facebook has lost 60% of its value in the past year. So in a desperate move to Mark made up some stupid sci-fi bullshit. He renamed the company Meta and has so far spent 36 billion building a new digital world he where you can do something. It's not really clear. Play cards with a robot I guess? Mark's pitch though, is that in the future we're all going to work, live, and play in the Metaverse, So therefore, you need in Facebook right now. Now, first of all, that sounds that we should stop at all costs. But don't worry, it's all bullshit. That video was faked on a green screen. The metaverse Mark's I mean, this looks like It is so rudimentary that the about is get ready for it, adding legs. Wow, that ought boosts the share price! And once he adds taints and buttholes there's no stopping him! Oh, wait, nevermind. Turns out the legs video was fake too. Mark ain't got no legs. Just as an aside, why the the face of this shit? I mean, they have so much money. They could have hired Samuel or a hologram of Betty White. Whose fantasy of the future is to hang out with Mark Zuckerberg? The dude is a robot frat boy programed to simulate humanity. - Smoking meats. Smoking these meats. Smoking these meats. I am, I'm making meats now. - I'm sure you are, buddy. And soon you'll learn how to eat them too. - The ribs and the - Unsurprisingly, Mark's than his childhood birthday parties. So few people are using Horizon Worlds that Mark had to literally to use it more. Okay, so how is it possible on a product that you are and have it be so bad even the people who built Well, turns out it's pretty easy if you're a fraud who's in your goddam life. Let's be clear, despite his Zuckerberg has actually bought or stolen every piece of his empire. When Instagram and WhatsApp to threaten Facebook's When Snapchat refused to sell, he stole its best feature, the Story. Oh, and let's not forget that on our stolen data. Zuckerberg's not a genius. He's a guy who got lucky one time then used his money to rob But you know what? Suddenly stealing isn't working anymore. His latest attempt Instagram Everyone knows it, everyone hates it. So for the first time in his life Mark is trying to invent his way out and he fucking sucks at it. This month, Facebook announced that they were laying 11,000 real people with real But Mark, the guy who caused the disaster by wasting 36 bil on a chatroom that looks worse than Wii When Facebook was founded Mark gave himself special that ensure he can even for gross stupidity. The dude is not some programming genius from a Sorkin movie, okay? He's just another businessman bozo who figured out how to no matter how much he fucks up. Oh, and speaking of massive fuck ups, let's talk about Sam Bankman-Fried. (upbeat classical music) SBF was the founder and And until recently, he was The trustworthy visionary into a utopian future of crypto finance. Literally just a few months ago &quot;Fortune&quot; magazine was calling and he got positive headlines sleeping on a beanbag planning to give all his money to charity. Now, if you saw my last video you're already smelling the bullshit. But in this case Sam's See, FTX was basically a crypto bank. Real people deposited into FDX to buy cryptocurrencies. But then when a bunch of them all at once, FTX didn't Why not? What happened to all that money? Well, it turns out that of his other companies, Alameda Research, to gamble on risky crypto bets. And in the meantime, he had with a bullshit cryptocurrency Like, imagine if your with Monopoly money and took and you're starting to get the picture. It was the sloppiest scam imaginable. Yet, just a few months ago, investors were hanging According to a glowing profile of Sam, published just a few weeks ago. On one occasion, he wowed the money guys by claiming he was going to turn FTX into a super app where you with your next dollar. You can buy Bitcoin, you can send money to a friend anywhere in the Now, I'm pretty sure I but the investors ate this shit up. They start going, &quot;I love this founder,&quot; &quot;10 out of 10,&quot; &quot;yes,&quot; they all each other and jerking each other off. I don't know what these fucks do, okay? But then they find out that he was playing League of Legends during the entire meeting. And instead of kicking him out on his ass, you know what they did next? They said that was incredibly impressive and gave the mother fucker $200 million. Why, that's not impressive! That's dumb as shit! Especially because it turns out SBF sucked at League of Legends. The dude never even But they were like, and get ganked at the same time? Give him all our money!&quot; Okay, let's see, a 30-year-old who sleeps on a beanbag chair, is way into crypto, and sucks at his favorite video game. That's not a genius. That's just everyone's burnout cousin. And just like your cousin, Bankman-Fried is broke as shit now. Of course, that doesn't hurt him much. His billions were fake to begin with, but the people he convinced to invest, the folks at home who saw the FTX patches on the and the Superbowl commercial &quot;Don't miss out on crypto.&quot; They invested their real actual money and all of that money is now gone. This mother fucker And you know what? It's easy to look at and say, &quot;Well, they kind Because they were stupid too.&quot; They got fooled by this And I get that because a lot to see the truth about the entire time. You don't need to be a genius to realize that crypto is a scam or that or that the Tesla Tunnel Just put a train down there, Elon. It's called a subway, god dammit! You just needed to be a little smarter than those three idiots, A lot of you watching this video were, and you were screaming to the heavens about it the entire time. But the problem is, our is run by dudes like this. Privileged, incompetent men who claim to be changing the world, is hoarding power they don't deserve. And so they designed the world and elevate them and So our media, our they all bought these guys bullshit. And then they served of Zucks smoked meats. - &quot;Eat up,&quot; they said, Their shit tastes like candy.&quot; And so can you really of us believed it? I mean, sure, Elon must be a genius. They said it on the news. And that belief, our cultural conviction in their brilliance gave them Not just money, not just political power, but psychological power over all of us. Like, seriously, I have friends that their kids will of Mark Zuckerberg's metaverse, because Zuck convinced them Cities canceled their transit projects because Elon Musk said the Real people gave Sam because they believed he was And now, now that they're we are the ones who are paying the price. It's our money that's getting lost. Our cities and online spaces Our jobs that are being eliminated while they skip off happily The only way that chaos will and admiring idiots like this. And that is the silver lining to the bursting of this bubble. Sam, Zuck, and Elon haven't been hurt by their apocalyptic Everyone from the media to the government can And that's a good thing that these guys are actually Twitter users have figured dumb enough to waste $44 it's really easy to troll The game VR Chat is way more but the team that created of what Mark did because you And Sam Bankman-Fried, well, was such massive news that in the entire crypto of people to distrust other which is a good thing because When we think critically their power evaporates. And it's so important because here's the kicker, The mediocre man with rich parents, a bachelor's from an ivy, and a bullshit vision for the future. I see 10 guys like that every day. Elon, Zuck, and Sam, they're And as soon as they fall, They're just like zombies. They're hungry, they're numerous, and they want to eat your brain But you know what the best Once you know how to outsmart them, they're really fun to take down. So the next time some vacant and tells you to do as he says 'cause he's gonna change the world, remember, you're smarter than him. And don't let anyone tell you otherwise. Hey everybody, thank you If you enjoyed the video, I'm just getting started with these and I can't wait to Also, check out my podcast, Factually. And subscribe to my Patreon Thank you so much for your support.