We think we are going to call this an episode The very mention of a ghost in some places A poll taken a few years back cited by The and 52 percent of British were still ghost China, Japan, Thailand and Cambodia and you'll they are living among the undead each and Whether folkloric tales of years gone by, preying on couples making out in the woods, to get the hairs on your neck standing on Here's a few of the scariest internet ghost are they real, or just tall tales? Let us know in the comments section! The Cabin in the Woods heard a cabin in the woods story, but we found The story is of a young man and woman living family cabin in a place called Pikes Peak They planned on hiking and just taking some It was Day four of their visit when they decided He writes that he believes he isn't going winter, although they have food sources, wood "We feel isolated. I will try to respond to comments but the he writes, saying that a massive snow storm Corolla is basically now a block of ice. Then the weird stuff happens. After going for a hike the couple returned cabin in a tree. Made from twigs it was about three feet across. They didn't touch it, having watched enough cursed. That night they both heard a noise outside, They weren't too worried, knowing how much Nonetheless, he took a tactical flashlight Nothing was there. He sounds lighthearted in the next paragraph. "We stayed in all day on Friday, and just games we brought and some of the Super Nintendo 2, I have considered stealing, because it's Then later that night they heard more noises. He didn't go outside this time, but at around The man listened carefully and thought he he wasn't sure as it could have just been The couple snuggled up and were soon asleep Then at 4.45 those noises were much louder, It was a man for sure, but he seemed to be as if he was calling for help. Now knowing what they were hearing they called The ranger said he'd come as soon as he No ranger turned up that night...or the next That night the girlfriend woke up shaking, It was a dream, a dream where she was trapped "I've never seen her so afraid," wrote Then she slept again, only to wake up crying. That man outside is my granddad said his girlfriend. He'd died four years ago. As crazy as it felt, he went outside to look There was no one there. That night he heard a voice which awakened This time it was a woman's voice. "I am a reasonable, skeptical, sometimes voice sounded exactly like my mother's," His mum was alive and well in California, He went outside wrapped in a blanket and found around the cabin. "I shouted, 'Mom?' or &quot;Who's there?' receded further into the woods. I'm pretty certain it was trying to coax me the cabin," he wrote. Days later and his girlfriend fell sick. She was convinced they were surrounded by making her ill. He heard more noises. He wrote, "Some movement spotted just behind etc. Couldn't see very much. Keeping all the curtains closed, windows locked, door." That's the last post he made. One comment by a man that said he is Navajo by a chindi (an evil spirit). The Dreamcatcher had been put there by someone The Broadcast the house is sleeping. You live in a small town; it's quiet outside of each channel as you mindlessly surf. You then stop, taken aback, as one channel a creepy man you never liked because he always in a way that was too close for a stranger. He starts reading from what could be a teleprompter. "Hiya Fella," he says in that same way. "I'm just here to inform you that the Then the channel just goes back to someone knives. You keep surfing, thinking you must have just it. It is the early hours of the morning and you Then the same channel gets interrupted again. This time it's a black and white cartoon sat around a dining table. You then notice the two kids look like you 8-years old. The woman, your mother for sure, is crying. She is sobbing really hard and even though loud. The man, your father, says to her in a reassuring You whisper to yourself, "No, you mean to going to be ok. "And then it seems like the entire family They all look at you through the TV, which They don't say anything, just stare. That was the story of a man about something The morning when he awoke he learned the distressing brain aneurysm that night in her bed. Maybe he had been warned by the spirits, perhaps Bloody Mary a bad case of strep throat but his mum allows a few of his buddies are having a sleep over. Like lots of kids that age they decide to of Ouija boards or satanic props they decide call it a game. It's simple enough. All the group should stand in front of a mirror three times. And that's just what happened with this No ghost appeared, no household objects moved They went to bed and went to school the next was kept at home as he was feeling worse. Then some days later, still at home in bed, over him. It was almost ticklish, like fine fingers He called his mother and she just said it But then later that day it happened again, to his shock he thought he saw the white indents Some time later his mum heard an almighty She found her son curled into a ball in the "That wasn't me in the mirror," he said. For days he experienced terrifying hallucinations touched, talked to while he was half asleep. His parents consulted a doctor who told them disorder, which can be brought on by strep It's said the boy recovered, but not quite. He partly believes to this day he was visited It's said he has never been the same. The Dream You know that because you've just been woken He is standing at the side of your bed just At your side is your wife, sleeping. She hasn't been disturbed by this ghostly-looking "What's wrong," you ask. "I had a bad dream," replies your son. "Ah," you say. This has happened before. "Do you want get in here with Daddy, you "No daddy." You are now more fully awake and can see the face. "It's ok, just snuggle up here," you "No daddy," is the reply again. "Why not buddie?" "In my dream daddy, when I came in here mommy's skin sat up." You are paralyzed, your son seems entranced, The Phone life, having to hold down a job and bring She occasionally found help though with friends, at least one night out in a month. Now and again those nights were a date with Her ex had left her pretty just after the time to go without any love interest. The problem was, if she did have a date it would be naughty and difficult all night with often called the boy creepy. Just about everyone knew this except the mother, courage to tell her that the young boy had He'd not only be naughty, but he'd sneak Somehow when they turned around he'd be Sometimes he just broke things. Once he even put cat droppings in one person's She didn't drink it, and scolded the boy "Why would you do that," she asked. "He did it," the boy replied. Could he be any freakier, she thought. Not surprisingly, getting someone to look and harder. Her friends, kinda feeling sorry for their than telling her the truth. The culmination of this led to a resentment She loved him, but she was tied down too much. She had no idea why her friends were always have an inkling that it might be something He seemed rather smug that she could not go with him. That her life was him in a way. "I love you," he would tell her, but often behind her when she was doing the dishes and It looked more like obsession - "I love She wasn't quite sure how something so nice It had always been a mystery to her why her He'd always been responsible and had been Things suddenly changed, though. He'd been quiet for a week or two after Later he barely spoke and made excuses to she returned home to find her son in his cot. Her boyfriend was nowhere to be seen. She was incredibly angry of course at this kid in the house. Days passed and he never returned, never called, His social media pages weren't updated, was alive and well in a town in Arizona, which How could he be so selfish! But time passed, and she tried to forget him. One night she was determined to go out. She'd met a guy whom she really liked and She had managed to get someone from her work someone who hadn't ever baby sat for her She knew her son was a bit different, but He was enraged though about his mother going "You should not leave," warned her son. "Why?" she asked. "Because he doesn't want you to leave," She thought this must be some kind of problem some ways for a father he never even really Who was 'he' though? At that point she just gave in to him and That evening as the two watched TV her son She said ok, but just for games. Don't call numbers and don't send messages, The son agreed. Later she fell asleep, waking up shocked to She quickly went upstairs and was relieved beside him. He'd only gone and taken photos all around She kept scrolling. It was as if he'd been taking pictures of Until she came to one photograph, a picture Her heart skipped a beat, though, as in that his arms wrapped around her shoulders. She could just about make out some kind of She never left her son at home alone again, of him. Got any good ghost stories of your own? Let us know in the comments! And if you found this video interesting, check Government Tried To Keep A Secret - The Ourang See you next time!