this video has subtitles in many different languages please turn them on Eid Mubarak, Eid Mubarak, Eid Mubarak, Eid Mubarak Alif Ba Ta Ta, Yim Fa Taa We are terrorists, and I explain to them that Islam is not a terrorist (praying) Good morning from beautiful San Cristobal. This is such a cool cool hotel. Today is going to be a really long day. I hope it's a really good day. I hope today is the most interesting video I have made. You guys are already going to see in the title so let me just say it now. We're going to go try to meet the indigenous Muslim people of San Cristobal. These are the indigenous Mayans and we're going to go see the mosque. We're gonna go see if we can talk to them and to go see how life is. It's a Friday and there doesn't appear to be a lot of traffic this morning. It's already 9.40 or so. We got 19 minutes to get there. I really hope there's someone or there's people that's willing to talk to us. I found Mexican people to be very comfortable with the camera. So we will see. It's difficult to imagine that within this very, very Catholic, very, very indigenous city, that there's a group of Muslims. A lot of times when you think of Muslims being in a country, you mostly just think of them being immigrants or expats or something like that. Where they originally came from a different country. Even if they're born here or they've been here for a few generations, like in Mexico there is a lot of other Muslims, but most of them are going to be those of Lebanese descent, Syrian descent, that came a long time ago, maybe even a hundred years ago or so. So we are two minutes away from the mosque. Honestly, before coming to Mexico, I did not know there was a population, especially an indigenous Mexican population. Yes, this is the mosque right here. Now, am I at the wrong side? This is the mosque. Okay. Mosquita. Okay, why is all of this police here? (car engine roaring) Sir, is it closed? Closed? It's open. This one is closed? It's open? Yes. And are there people coming in? I don't know them. But today is their festival. There's a festival up there. Where? Up there. No, here for Muslims, it's like a happy Christmas for them. It's today. I don't know them. How are you sir? Are there Muslims inside? Yes, but there are no people inside, it's closed. It's closed now? Yes, it's closed. Today, the Muslims of this community have a festival, right? Yes. And what part of San Cristobal? I don't know. Ok, thank you. So like I said in the last video I have yet to have one problem in Mexico with the police and I think as you guys have seen that's even like talking to the military asking them questions they don't they haven't bothered me one bit they haven't stopped me one bit so it's this very interesting here's another group of military here and we'll see if they actually stop me yep they stopped me let's see what they want Now I'm in the mosque here, but they say it's closed. The temple... Up there? No, no, here, here. The Muslims of San Cristobal, the indigenous. They say it's closed, but now I'm going to the mosque here. It's another temple for them, because today is Christmas for them. But it's Mexican, they are Mexican. I want vegetables and things for the body, to give life, because they are not Catholic, but yes. I'm going to them. Okay, thank you sir. Thank you. So that has been the extent of my experience in Mexico with the police and the military, police, any government establishment. That has been the extent. Where are you going? Nothing more than that. Where are you going? And that's basically the end. And those other guys didn't stop me, I stopped them. So they just have their questions and you just quickly tell them, &quot;Hey, this is where I'm going.&quot; And they're like, &quot;Oh, okay, okay, okay.&quot; So in Mexico, I haven't seen anybody trying to, any police officers at least with me, trying to push for anything extra. Try to make me admit anything, trying to find guilt when there's no guilt. So, and that's the military right there. And they have, I guess, slightly a different training than the regular traffic police. So, if I'm not mistaken, I believe there's a few different types of Muslim communities here in San Cristobal. One of them being the Ahmadiyya community and then the other being the Salafi community. So just so you know, the Ahmadiyya, they don't believe Prophet Muhammad was the last prophet. So some Muslims are not going to consider them to be Muslims. We have made it to the mosque. This is it. I don't know if they're exactly praying at this moment. So I'm going to go in and go see if I can go talk to them. So right here this is, I don't know if they're using this for storage, but this is part of the masjid. So this right here is the masjid here. Masjid Al-Koser. Al-Hikma, Al-Koser. And this is what it looks like here. So let's go in. Let's see. So this is where wudu is made here. Then the other thing they got going is this is the bathroom. And of course this is where people pray and it was in 2001 that this was built and they added this part here in 2010. So yep this is where the prayer takes place and they did it themselves the community came together and they built this. What is this? A kitchen? This is a kitchen. A kitchen for cooking. So this is where they make food. This is where they made food yesterday for Eid. This is part of the place and this is all community built community sponsored From what I can see there's not any other big groups or anything like that that's funding them I guess at this particular moment. It's an agenda that they have And this is a picture in Saudi Arabia [SPEAKING ARABIC] [Arabic] Allah is the greatest. We will see you, O beloved ones. Allah is the greatest. Allah is the greatest. Allah is the greatest. Allahu Akbar Allahu Akbar Assalamu alaikum wa rahmatullah Assalamu alaikum wa rahmatullah Wassalamu alaikum wa rahmatullah I have a boyfriend, right? Do you have a wife? No Nothing? Nothing And your husband, when was he born? Yes Did he cut? circumcision , he did Yes No In Mexico? No No And after? - About 7 years? - Yes, since birth. Muslim people, they do have a strict dietary requirement called halal. And they really do keep things halal here. So let me introduce you guys to their cows. And yes, today they did slaughter a cow. I guess I wasn't there. They do slaughter their things, so they make sure that it's halal. Yep, they got three cows. So yeah, they got one right there. They have some chickens around. Somewhere here they have some chickens. This cow is mad. He's gonna be sacrificed in two months. Not this Eid, but the next upcoming Eid. It's gonna be sacrificed. Look at how pissed off it is. This is our Ramadan food that we're gonna consume. Now this is beef, right? Ground beef. This is ground beef. This is halal. This is the first time I had halal, guaranteed, certified halal beef. Hand slaughtered. Hand slaughtered in Mexico. And the tamale this morning. Wait, the chicken was also hand-slaughtered. And the tamale is in the backyard. And the chicken that they have here. Did you guys see them slaughter it? That would have been cool. So, they basically got all the food here. And this is our Ramadan Eid food. This cake is in honor of the passing of Yahya's father. He passed away at the beginning of Ramadan. This is the cake in his honor. So as you guys can see, there are like these women that are dressed this way. These are indigenous women. They have their headscarf on. And I don't want to really interview them or anything. I did speak to the men. You guys are gonna see the complete video. But yes. Oh look at that. Video? Like, share, and hit the like button. Oh, put it there. Look how organized they are. They're really, they're really, they're very well behaved. Guys on one side, girls on the other. Ah, yeah. Love it. Eid Mubarak, Eid Mubarak. Eid Mubarak. Eid Mubarak. Eid Mubarak. Eid Mubarak. Idmabarak, Idmabarak, Idmabarak, Idmabarak. So yes, these people are doing Idmabarak gifts. This is what Muslim people do. They usually hand out money or gifts or things like that. So the children and the Muslim women and whatever for the children, they're getting these gifts. So this is so, so cool. And just like that, in a minute and a half, everything is done with. Hopefully all the kids got fed And yeah, this is the cake. This is the family celebration. And with this celebration, what it really means is they're all coming together, the Muslim side, the Christian side of the families, they're coming together and to celebrate. It's a very beautiful thing. They're all mixed. And I think when Christmas happens, they do the same kind of thing. So I don't know. I think this is amazing. [Heartbeat] [Heartbeat] [Heartbeat] [Heartbeat] Isn't that nice? And you didn't know any of them. So yes, what were you saying? So you didn't know anyone when you came here today. No. You came to the Masjid, Allah's house. Yes. Allah invited you to his house on Eid day. And you met an American we can have a conversation with. Yes, right. Who's also from the Seattle area? Yes, then you got invited to lunch Breakfast was tamale. Lunch was tacos. Yep. Now you're eating cake. Yeah all because Of no other reason not because we like you you're good-looking. Nope. You're smart. Nope all because you're Muslim Yes, that's the beauty of our faith. I mean don't forget that So what do you say about them about inviting their? Mexican family, the Christian Mexican family, and just being like very hospital to them and... Blood is thicker than water. If you were not blood, you would never be invited to this. Right? But because you're Muslim, you're invited. That's the beauty of this religion. How's the cake? It's diet cake. Diet cake. So why? They usually have it a little disappointed. Usually it's like 10 times sweeter. Okay. And where's the best cake? Where are we going to get the best cake in Mexico? In my opinion, usually has the best cake. Yeah. But that's that's pre-chiapas. Pre-chiapas. Yeah, maybe not in chiapas. They don't go that sweet here. Okay, they try to save on the sugar. Maybe they're just more nutritious here. They're nutritious. Yeah. Or they're lacking on the sugar. They wanted to conserve the sugar. It's not bad. Okay. Usually Mexican cakes are usually sweet. Your name is Yahya? Yes And your father is the first person here to start Islam? Yes, Islam He is the first person in this... I accepted Islam first Oh, you are the first And then my father Abdul Haq Ah, ok, ok, ok This is my father He looks young Yes, he looks young This is you? Yes, this is my father Abdul Haq And this person is... A Sheikh of Saudi Arabia And he is also from... This is Iman Sheikh, also from Mexico Oh, from Mexico, Mexico City Mexico City, ok So, your father? My father and me You look very young Yes Your son says you visited the Hajj? Yes, Alhamdulillah How long have you been in Mecca? Three weeks And what is your experience at this moment? Alhamdulillah, everything is good. It's very nice to be here. At this moment, are the groups from Saudi Arabia or other countries helping with things? Or is everything here from the community? No, everything is from the community. I don't have a sponsor. Nothing? Nothing. And you are from Sunni? Sunni. And no Sunni group in any country is helping with anything? There are some who send a little bit of help, food, everything. Ok, ok, ok. And also madrasa? Do you help with madrasa? No, nothing. Nothing? Nothing. Wow. Ok, you are Muslim for how many years? I am Muslim for 28 years. 28 years? Yes, 28. And who is the first person to start Islam here? A group of Muslims arrived who were Spanish, the Moravitun, or Sufis. Sufis? Yes. So you are Sufis? No, not now. Now? Before, yes. Before, yes. And when did you change to Sufi? I was with the Sufis for two years. And from another mosque? Mosque, yes? In Spanish, it's a mosque? Yes, mosque. Mali... Maliki, yes. Yes. But you are different? It's different. OK, there is Ahmadiyya? Ahmadiyya, Sunni, Sufism Ok, there are three And in all of this city, how many people? 2000, 3000, 5000? No, less, around 400 400? Ok, in the Sunnis, how many? Around 60, how many are there? Ok, the majority is here? Yes Ok, and Ahmadiyya? Ahmadiyya, around 50 50? Yes And the Sufis? From Maliki? I don't know how many But they are bigger? They are a bit bigger And why are they... But who is first? The Sufis are first, right? Yes, the Sufis And then... And then Ahmadiyya Yes, and then Ahmadiyya So, there are only in this city There are three groups And there is another one That is a Syrian That is called Mudar Another one too What is it? A Mudar A brother I am from Syria In another group? Yes, another group Do you have a mosque? Yes, we have a mosque In all of them are there indigenous people or are there other Mexicans? Most of them are indigenous Like you? Yes But one group of indigenous people has different... -Islam -Islam, yes Wow Wow And how about the governments of Mexico, the community here? Because you are different Yes Mexico is a Catholic country What is your experience with this? Alhamdulillah, here there is respect, there is no... Let's say the government prohibits you. But there are people who look very strange, they think it's the new religion. The people who don't respect or don't understand, what do they say? They think we are terrorists. And I explain to them that Islam is not a terrorist. What do most people do? They work as drivers, construction workers, all that. Any job? Yes, any job. What is your full name? My name is Juan Gomez. Juan Gomez. And your father? He's Abulhaq. And your mother changed religion? Yes, she's Muslim. And I also changed. Yes, she changed. And before, what did you do? Christianity. What kind? Like Presbyterian. Before your husband, you are also Muslim? Yes Married in church? Yes And in school what did you learn? Arabic? Arabic, Quran Learn Arabic or read Arabic? Recite Quran And also read? Read So you knew the alphabet? Alphabet, yes Everything! And you also know how to read? I can read a little bit And your dad is an imam? Yes, imam And 5 times a day people pray in the mosque? Yes How old are you? I am 23 years old And you were born in Islam? Yes, I was born in Islam And what is your future? What is your dream? To learn more about Islam and teach it Oh you want to be a teacher? Yes And again, your name? Mohammed Abdullah Gomez Jimenez And today is Eid? Yes, we are in LA And here in this town, how do you celebrate? Here we celebrate, we all gather in the mosque We are in the mosque, we have prepared the food and we eat together What is your experience here or in everything that you are Muslim? Well, I have friends that are not Muslim and respect my religion Every time they invite me to eat, they know that I don't eat pork Your dad is a pure indigena? Indigena San Juan Chamula In your language, hello, how are you? I am from Coabelan And what is the name of your language? Cosa Vi And do you speak very well or have you been learning? No, since I was a baby So your language at home is what? At home is Tocil Spanish? No, Spanish, only Tocil Carlos And you say that up to 2 years He changed to 2 years And your father told him to help Yes But in what way? How did he help? Because I had a lot of doubts About the Bible Christianity and everything And I asked him And he explained it to me in the best way He explained to me about the prophet Muhammad And from there It convinced me in my heart that I felt it was the truth. So little by little I started to change. They brought me to the mosque and I saw that they were praying. It seemed very interesting to me. Very different from the Christian churches. So I liked it. It touched my heart. In your conversion, what was the most difficult thing? Difficult... I think that I stopped eating pork. Because I was used to eating pork. So, stop eating... There are some tacos here tacos of the pastor, which are pork and they are very tasty, right? So, when I changed to Islam I didn't eat I didn't eat pork anymore Yes, it was difficult for me Because my father, since I was a child since I was born I got used to eating pork And for me, it was a little difficult it's difficult to leave the pig and until now you miss the pig? no, no when they cook the pig I feel pain at the beginning it's difficult because they debate why you have become like this or what happened to you I started reading the Bible and little by little they guide me so they come in conflict but they understand now as Mohammed says, they respect you and they do it and since most of the time they are Atlantis people they don't eat pork either so it's not that difficult yes, well at the beginning it was a bit difficult Atlantis people don't eat pork? no, they don't eat pork either they follow the law of the Torah of Moses they more or less go to that so they don't eat pork either and you, most people change their name do you change or never change? name? Your name is Carlos, but in the future, will you change? Maybe, maybe yes. What name do you like? I don't know, I haven't thought about it. Maybe I'll think about it, Yusuf, Suleiman, maybe? Yes, yes, yes. This city is getting better every year, it's getting worse every year. What does the change of this city give? Every year it's a little worse, because of the insecurity. Yes, there are more and more... Yes, so sometimes it gets a little unsafe around here. So right here, this is going to be where they teach the children Quran. It's right behind the masjid. And this is where they're building it. They're still making the construction here. And I don't know when they're going to finish. But this is where they'll be giving Arabic lessons to teach the children how to read. And it is very interesting. So they have rebar here. They have concrete. And who knows, they might have a bathroom in the back. Is there a bathroom? A bathroom or no? Yes. And here is what? Kitchen. The kitchen is big. What else? Here is the kitchen. Yes Here is the bathroom Ok, the bathroom is here Ok Here is for making fire Fire? Ok, ok, for fire Here is? Stairs, two floors Ok, two floors And what year or what time To complete? complete everything in one year. And who helps with this work? The brothers of this community. Of this community. One of my questions is, for example, if someone wants to help in the future, or something, do you have a number, do you have an internet page? What do you have? What do you have? We have the mosque on Facebook Alcazar Alcazar What else? Numbers or pages? If you want to support we have phone numbers If you want to support we have phone numbers If you want to support we have phone numbers It's 967-121-9482 It's 967-121-9482 It's 967-121-9482 For the construction of the mosque For the construction of the mosque For the construction of the mosque We are going to use two floors. Two floors. And the first floor is for what? It's going to be for learning. Everything. And the second floor? It's going to be for men. And the other mosque is for women. women. It is raining. It is raining on Eid day. It is raining. The rain is becoming crazy. It is like hail. It is hailing on Eid day. I'm being rained on but take a look here. Take a look. This is what they gave me. The guy was like &quot;Hey, you're gonna get rained on, you didn't bring a jacket, take this with you.&quot; This is the hospitality... This is the hospitality of these people. So... Wow, it's been an incredible day to see all of this. I wish them the best. It's, to me, it's different. It's interesting to see these different communities. In this channel, you'll see many different types of people. It's not just one thing. I don't have one exact agenda. So it'll be interesting to see how the different communities in South America exist. But one thing that I love, love, love so far is to see them, the Christian side of their family, the Muslim side of their family, come together and enjoy, have a meal together. And also tomorrow they'll be coming together. So I see that they respect each other's opinions, each other's sides. That's something that I think we can all learn from in this world. And mind you, it's not easy being in a country like Mexico to change your religion, especially to something Muslim, especially to something that people don't understand. I think it's a very incredible thing. I'm being poured on, rained, rained, rained on, but it is more than worth it to see them and to see them perform well. And there's a lot of things I have to say. For example, the children, they have very good manners. The children have very good manners. They stay in line. They don't mess with the cake. Wow. It's just super, super good. And yes, here's the military here. And they did stop me earlier today. Let's see if they stop me today. So let's just see what happens. So the reason why there's military here is because yesterday someone nearby this area got killed and to keep tourism up they have to have a police presence. So anytime something happens in Mexico they make sure they have the police come out, the military come out and control this place. So I don't even know if you guys are going to hear me, but do me a favor, please click on the like button, click on the subscribe button, and peace. (wind blowing)