January 2, 2010. It's a warm night in Hugo Hernandez is taking an evening walk. his name will be in newspapers all over the world As he walks, he barely registers until it pulls up next to him, and the side pile out and make a run for Hernandez. and pull a black sack over his head. In a matter the back of the van, which speeds away He's just been kidnapped by Sicarios from feared and powerful drug cartels in all of a long shot. He's about to find out exactly When Hugo Hernandez wakes up, he's in Sinaloa while one among their number readies a chainsaw. room where Hernandez is being held and in for sure whether Hernandez was alive when they he was alive when they cut off every one of torso. We can only hope, for Hugo's sake, What we do know is what happened afterward. with Hugo, his torso and all of the limbs two large plastic containers on the meticulously stitched onto a soccer City Hall with a note that reads, "Happy Because when it comes to the the drug cartels of Mexico are You've heard the stories - Shootings, stabbings, it's generally underselling just how brutal drug cartels can be. This is a multi-billion in the world. It's why some of Mexico's and the Zetas, need to go so above and beyond in And leading the charge is Joaquin Guzman, the now that you might know better by his nickname, El of Joe Pesci has taught us anything, it's that the scariest gangsters of all. Let's take a look brutality even as drug cartels go, with some of starting with how he saw fit to punish rival According to unsealed court documents, dragged him into a garden outhouse the torture began: While Cartel agents filmed the and he was electrocuted in the ear. He was beaten him, but Seventually, the pain got too much At this point, the Sinoloa torturers called in could continue torturing him. they murdered Rincon and disposed of his body in torture to the internet. And what happened El Chapo is a hands-on torture enthusiast. While of his countless underlings, he's also more than himself. According to one eyewitness, he beat quote, "like rag dolls" from so many broken Another incident had him non-fatally shoot a rival alive to suffocate slowly. A witness at El Chapo's torture as follows: "He had burns made with his skin. He had burns made with a car lighter all after days of being left for dead in an old wooden One of the drug lord's most trusted had a special room in his mansion built of their rivals in the drug trade. The to let the blood drain away more easily, as technology to stop anyone from the outside El Chapo's apples didn't fall far from the tree, and Joaquin and Ovidio Guzman Lopez - formed Chapitos," or "Little Chapos," along with close El aka El Nini. As you've probably predicted of horrific torture, and keep a ranch in People close to the matter have reported that victims before yanking them out and rubbing hot either dead or alive, depending on how lucky sons keep as pets. They're also known for in many cases killing them and their But Mexico's cartel community isn't going to let are plenty of horrific instances of violence and we're going to take you on a traumatic ones. Seriously, we're begging you, put down Probably one of the most infamous cases of DEA Agent Enrique "Kiki" Camarena in 1985 when members of the ruthless Guadalajara cartel. Kiki's fit to torture him to death over the course On February 7th, 1985, he was ambushed by a group Consulate. He went without a struggle, knowing secondary location where the torture commenced. recorded the interrogation, beating him cheekbones, and windpipe were crushed. We can captors produced a power drill, which they used How do we know he was still alive? The toxicology report showed the presence of despite the fact that he never used the drugs that Kiki was given the drugs so that he would In more recent years, members of the Jalisco member of a rival cartel, the aforementioned Los murder. By the time the video started, the and his arms were tied behind his back on chainsaw while another questioned him, Eventually, when the torturers they sawed off the man's legs Then there are the horrific crimes of Los Zetas, Sinaloa Cartel. The Zetas don't have the Sinaloa's for it with their truly extraordinary acts of is forced onto her knees by a Los Zetas agent, who gentleman, this is what happens to all those The woman does not resist, seemingly to her throat and slices off her head as her perforated throat wheezes air. garnered massive controversy Much like Los Chapitos, the Zetas even have ranch: La Gallera ranch in northern Veracruz. used it as a hub of mass cremation, incinerating ever coming to light. These cremations were in a scene described by witnesses as something far Some victims were dissolved in bathtubs full crocodiles. In more pedestrian but no less tortured, and murdered were buried in mass upsetting part is that the locals knew this but the corrupt local police were in the Whenever Los Zetas and the kitchen happen - and this fact is true all the way one of the alleged leaders of the cartel group, he enjoyed that's referred to as "El Guiso" 55-gallon metal drums alive, and a fire would then The incident that truly put Los Zetas on the where the Zetas kidnapped and murdered 193 number of buses, the victims were dragged to the and the men were given weapons and forced to willing to kill to save their own lives were Los Zetas in what is perhaps the most horrific The most horrifying part is that Multiple cartels have used forcing people torment. A video that leaked online in 2023 students lured onto a cartel compound, who when they refused an offer to join the decapitating another with a machete, as another The cocky and in-your-face style of Los hanged two members of the Gulf Cartel, and the headless bodies of 49 migrant workers as particularly insulting by members of the served as their security force, before In 2012, the Gulf Cartel struck back with some a video of several captured members of the they're interrogated about their leaders. When the they descend on the Zetas with machetes, brutally a flicker of remorse. Cartel members live Filming their crimes, as you may have In one particularly vile video filmed you can see them goofing off with a severed human puts the face on like a Halloween mask, while You may be feeling a little queasy hearing it kind of makes us wonder why you clicked Brutal Torture Methods" - but, at the The Cartel isn't running unopposed. Mexico's want to put cartels like the Sinaloas and the a law enforcement official once voted "Mexico's Wait, he was working for the cartel, too? AND That's right, while we personally think that be revoked, he's in the runnings for one of its abusing suspects under his care, facilitating errand boy for El Chapo. His former boss, Genaro and drug trafficking, so he's been doing a Palomino has a shady past, having been before proving himself to be a reliable asset for of Mexican law enforcement. Because of crooked and special forces have been accused of a bevy of straight-up massacres on the cartel's behalf. One of the favorite methods of people like which involves using a cattle prod a prisoner in order to induce confessions tormenting is innocent. They've also been with plastic bags, employ Guantanamo-style within an inch of their life, sometimes Dr. Robert Bunker, a research director at said of the torturous cartel cops, include the use of bladed instruments, and electrical-based approaches But we can't lay the responsibility of it's far more systemic in nature than that. the Daily Beast, "Torture is committed on because our institutions lack the resources is done through torture." This same anonymous employed psychological tortures as well as victims and threatening to kill or torture Former DEA chief of international operations Mike have been a part of the Mexican law enforcement said, "All of Mexico's security forces have and it has become normal for them. They look at it that it is a violation of human rights or Of course, Mexican drug cartels don't have violence. After all, one of the most feared Pablo Escobar, was Colombian. However, one of the Cartel liked to torture people is actually an Now, we don't mean that it was a total myth like people for a number of years. The torture involves tongue out of the wound, so it rests against while it's commonly misattributed to Pablo a brutal period of the Colombian Civil War decade between 1948 and 1958 - predating the For all our torture and mutilation fans atrocities - From the Colombian Necktie to the cut off and stuffed into their body, to a torture genitals were cut off and shoved into their cases where pregnant women had the fetuses cut The cruel irony of all the coverage of video - is exactly what the cartel wants. The but sophisticated PR move, advancing their who rule their respective territories. Very groups like Al Qaeda and ISIS with their But the acts of torture and how could they not provoke some kind of reaction? But if this video has taught you If you find yourself taking a vacation to run into someone involved in a drug cartel one of these videos, we'd hate for any of Now check out "El Chapo Versus Pablo Escobar -