Airpower ended the Pacific War in a way beyond the imagination of any of the visionary pre-war strategists. None of the Japanese or American planning had been conducted with any idea of the two weapons which would bring the war so completely and so suddenly to an end. the Boeing Superfortress and the atomic bomb. Conventional air power had gone a long way toward defeating the Japanese, but they were determined to resist an invasion with every weapon at their disposal. The Japanese were a homogeneous nation, 100 million strong. They were willing to die for their country and for their Emperor. The Boeing B-29 was the most expensive single project of World War II. It cost more than $3 billion for design, development, production, and deployment. The Manhattan Project, which resulted in the atomic bomb, cost $2 billion. The B-29 was clearly the most outstanding bomber in the war by any standards of performance. It was far ahead of the American B-17 and the British Lancaster. The Superfortress was the joint project of a few visionary American Corps planners. They were aided by General Hap Arnold, who pushed the program through the spite of many The other important factor was the engineering strength and heavy bomber experience of the Boeing Aircraft Corporation. By 1940, it seemed possible that England would be invaded and occupied. That meant that Nazi Germany would have to be bombed by US bases. The Air Corps called for a speed of 400 miles an hour, a range of 5,333 miles, and a 2,000-pound bomb load. It was an audacious gamble of the part of the Air Corps and of the Boeing Company. Boeing was perhaps taking the greater chance. The Air Corps could hedge its bets with other manufacturers for less ambitious airplanes. But Boeing had to rely not only on its own capability, it also had to trust its vendors. Many of them were being asked to create components fully as advanced as the aircraft itself. Shortcuts had to be taken. Each one added to an already ambitious program. Dollars were freely available, but they were not always a solution. The handsome streamlined airframe was a radical departure from all previous Boeing practice and involved new metals and new fabrication techniques. Boeing's entire production capacity was occupied with building the B-17. For the B-29 it was necessary to build entire new plants and there was a greater challenge, the creation of a new, highly skilled workforce. Vast schools were established on the factory sites, with 90 days of training or less. Farmers, housewives, and young people just out of high school were taught how to do everything necessary to build the most complex aircraft in history. By 1943, Boeing had 58,000 employees building the B-29. Boeing knew from the start that its greatest question mark was the unproven engine. The R-3350 needed several years more development than was available. It would go into the field unready. It would be a constant nightmare to mechanics and a worry to pilots taking off with two heavy loads from two short runways. Even with the R-3350's power, the speed and range requirements were too difficult to attain. They could only be achieved by combining a highly streamlined design with a wing using a new Boeing high-lift airfoil and sophisticated flap system. The USAAF thought Boeing's approach was too radical. They thought the wing loading was too high and that its pilots wouldn't be able to handle the airplane. They cited the experience of the Denturius Martin B-26 as an example. Boeing analyzed the B-26 and found that it had a low aspect ratio wing mounted on the fuselage in a way that induced drag. They explained that the B-26's problem stemmed out from bad design. They said that the B-29's excellent design would avoid difficulties. To achieve the necessary performance, the B-29 had to operate at high altitudes. For this, pressurization of the fuselage was mandatory. Boeing had experimented with pressurization in the Model 307's straddle liner passenger plane. But no production bomber had ever been pressurized. The B-29 adopted a new three-bubble system. The pilot, co-pilot, engineer, radio operator, and navigator were up in the front pod. The gunners were positioned in the mid-fuselage pressurized area and connected to the cockpit by a tunnel spanning the twin bomb bays. The tail gunner was crammed into a third pressurized compartment in the rear, isolated and very much alone. Because of the pressurization system, standard gun turrets could not be used. The armament had to be remotely operated. A general electric fire control system had to be created. It used an early computer that compensated for speed, range, altitude, wind temperature, and trajectory. The results were remarkably good. Any gunner apart from the tail gunner could control more than one station. The computers permitted firing at targets beyond the range of conventional hand-operated guns. The demand for the Boeing B-29 increased. Rival firms Bell Aircraft and Glen O'Martin were tasked to build it. Boeing felt it was being asked to train competition for the post-war marketplace. By the time the XB-29 made its first flight on September 21, 1942, the USAAF had placed a mammoth order for 1,664 of the aircraft. But the first two prototypes caught fire in the air, the second one crashed into a meat packing plant. The entire crew was killed. In spite of all the difficulties, the first B-29 of the 58th Bombardment Wing landed Operation Matterhorn was designed to knock out the Japanese steel industry. The idea of B-29 bombing Japan from Chinese bases was attractive in political terms. President Roosevelt had promised Shanghai Shek to begin bombing operations against Japan by November 1944. But in practice it was flawed for a wide variety of economic, logistic, and command reasons. Shanghai Shek's subordinates refused to get serious about building airbases until enough money had been paid to permit embezzlement on a massive scale. Army General Vinegar Joe Stilwell estimated that at least half of the 100 million in gold gold required by the Chinese was siphoned off to corrupt officials. The airbases themselves were a monument to the patience and industry of the Chinese people. They literally built them by hand, without power equipment of any sort. They used the most primitive tools to move earth or chip stones. The operation was based on the assumption that the B-29s would support their own operations by flying gasoline over the hump, the high mountain passes and the Himalayas separating India and China. But the B-29 was a brand new weapon that had not yet received sufficient testing. It would be bad practice to subject it to continuous flights over the mountains. Then there was the primitive maintenance and the continuing shortage of parts and labor, but the task had to be done. There was no alternative. The complexity of the logistics was a function of the sheer size of the B-29 units. The Superfortress had a crew of seven. Seven aircraft were assigned per squadron, and there were 28 per group and a grand total of 112 for the wing. Each B-29 was assigned two crews. A fully manned wing had a total personnel of 11,112. When all its elements arrived overseas, 20th Bomber Command had more than 20,000 officers and men plucked down in brand new bases in India and China, eager to go to war. Lt. Gen. George Strademeier was made responsible for the 20th Bomber Command's administration and logistics. General Claire Chennault was responsible for the fighter defense and complete ground support of the B-29 bases in China. The B-29's very first combat raid was mounted on June 5, 1944. General Wolf led 98 aircraft against the railroad marshalling yards in Bangkok, Thailand. crash en route, 42 had to make emergency landings. Later reconnaissance revealed that fewer than 20 bombs had landed in the target area. It was not a good start for the $3 billion program. The commanders were veterans on the European theater. They were not yet aware of how different the B-29 was from the B-17. Nor were they aware of how difficult the Japanese targets, geography, and weather were compared to Germany's. Hap Arnold demanded better results. He wanted an attack on the Japanese homeland. On June 15th, Wolf launched 92 B-29s from India. Of these, only 79 reached their Chinese staging bases. 78 were dispatched on a night raid against the steel mills of Yawata and Kyushu, Japan. Each plane carried two tons of bombs. The results were once again disappointing. Only 47 aircraft made it to Yawata. Only one bomb hit Yawata. It damaged a power station more than half a mile from the steel mill coke ovens. The Americans took comfort in the damage they must have caused to Japanese morale, but Arnold was not after Japanese morale. He was after their industry. The story of the next six months was much the same, and at home in the US there was a myriad of B-29 production problems. Wolf was sent back to sort them out. In September, the 20th Bomber Command was taken over by a firebrand from Europe. His name was Curtis LeMay. The dramatic acceleration of the Pacific War permitted a two-pronged strategy of attack. From bases in Chengsu, China, the 1,600-mile operating radius of the B-29 permitted it to hit targets from Manchuria through Japan all the way down to the tip of French Indochina. Superfortresses operating from Saipan and the Marianas could cover all the important targets in the heartland of Japan. Curtis LeMay's 20th Bomber Command was the first of two proms. To provide the second, the 21st Bomber Command was established in November 1944. It was to operate out of new airfields in the Marianas Islands. One of the United States Army Air Force's great planners, Possum Hansel, was made commanding officer of the 21st. Hansel landed his B-29 Jolt in Josie, the Pacific pioneer on Saipan on October 12, 1944. He was eager to validate in battle the many plans he participated in creating. Hansel felt the weight of his responsibility. He knew that even Curtis LeMay, in spite of his success in Europe, was having trouble turning things around against the Japanese and China. LeMay's problems with the 20th Command included difficulty of supply and the unreliability of the B-29's R-3350 engines. Occasionally, good bombing results were obtained. In April 1945, the assets of the 20th Bomber Command would be transferred to Tinian and Guam. By then, it had failed in its essential task of sustained bombing of Japan. So much had been expected of the B-29 that the American commanders were driven to prove that it was in fact an excellent weapon. At the very highest levels of command where people were aware of the Manhattan Project, the urgency was even greater. Only the B-29 could carry the atomic bomb. If the superfortress failed, the Manhattan Project became a complete waste. The pressure was felt and transmitted. But in the months after his arrival on Saipan with the 21st, Han Sol was able to do no better than had previously been done in the 20th from China. The Committee of Operational Analysis had reconsidered the priorities in Japan. They now suggested that the aviation industry was the most important target. This had been the Air Force's choice all along. The Joint Chiefs of Staff directed that the principal aircraft engine manufacturers around Tokyo became the primary targets. The long series of attacks on Tokyo would be helped by the incredible bravery and skill of the crew of an F-13. The F-13 was the unarmed reconnaissance version of the Superfortress. Early in the morning of November 1, 1944, Captain Ralph D. Stakeley's F-13 became the first U.S. plane to fly over Tokyo since the Doolittle Raid. These photos became the basis for all US attacks on the city. Hansel's first strike on Tokyo was to be called San Antonio 1. After much training and many postponements, San Antonio 1 began at 615 a.m. on November 24th. The first plane to roll down Isley Fields runway was Dauntless Dottie, flown by Brigadier General Rosie O'Donnell. His co-pilot, Major Robert K Morgan had been a pilot on the famous B-17 Memphis Belle. Dauntless Dottie was followed by 110 more B-29s, carrying 278 tons of bombs. But the promising start to the mission unraveled. 17 aircraft aborted. Six more found themselves unable to bomb for mechanical reasons. The rest were caught up in a 120 knot wind. It was the infamous jet stream then only just being recognized. They were swept over the target at a blistering 445 miles an hour. It was too fast for accurate bombing. But on the positive side, Japanese fighters resistance was light, flak was ineffective. Once again reconnaissance photos showed the bombing results to be totally inadequate. Only 16 bombs had been observed to hit the target area. By now, the B-29 was performing fairly well. Extensive modifications had improved the reliability of its engines, but bombs were still not hitting the targets. The early Japanese analysis was that the costs of the B-29 were so great and its results so negligible that not even a wealthy nation like the United States could afford to persist the attacks. But unknown to all of the Japanese and most of the Americans, a change was in the wind. On December 18, 1944, 84 B-29s of Curtis LeMay's 20th Bomber Command dropped 500 incendiary bombs in a daylight raid on Hangkou, China. The attack destroyed the city as a major Japanese base. As a result of the success of LeMay's incendiary raid, Hansel's 21st Bomber Command was ordered to take a test raid on the city of Nagoya in Japan. It would be made by at least 100 B-29s, all dropping incendiary bombs. Hansel objected, saying that he wanted to continue precision bombing of the Japanese aircraft industry. In doing so, he put his career on the skids. You can buck the brass in the military, but only if you succeed. A test raid was run on Nagoya on January 3, 1945. 97 B-29s carried mostly incendiary bombs. It was not a good mission. Only 57 aircraft bombed the designated target. Damage on the ground was slight. The Japanese drew the conclusion that their fire prevention system was highly efficient. It was an erroneous and eventually disastrous assumption. Hansel reverted to his previous precision bombing tactics. He was unable to generate better results apart from the one successful attack on the Kawasaki aircraft plant near Kobe. The one success didn't help Hansel. If you work for Hab Arnold, you delivered or you were relieved. Hansel was relieved by Major General Curtis LeMay. Hansel's forte was planning. The time for planning was past. Now was the time for direct action, which was Curtis LeMay's strength. As a new commander, LeMay received more latitude than Hansel. He made two attacks using Hansel's method. Then he put 69 aircraft over Kobe to drop incendiary bombs. There was heavy fighter opposition. 2 B-29s were lost and 35 badly damaged. But the city of Kobe was hurt. More than 1,000 buildings were destroyed. In the latter part of the war, America's overwhelming advantage in numbers and quality usually allowed American forces to brush Japanese opposition aside. As the precision bombing efforts continued, further tests were made with incendiary bombs. In a heavy attack on Tokyo on February 25th, almost 30,000 buildings were destroyed, but the precision strikes against Japan continued to be ineffective. Enemy fighter opposition stiffened. In the series of attacks in February, 29 B-29s were lost to fighters, 10 were lost on the long over water trip between Saipan and Japan. Another 21 crashed because of operational problems like engine fires, runaway propellers or fuel exhaustion. And so far, the results were insignificant. The B-29, the multi-billion dollar bomber, had failed in its intended role. But Curtis LeMay already had the remedy in mind. LeMay was aware that he was as vulnerable to have Arnold's impatience as any other man. He decided to try tactics he'd long considered and which had been carefully tested in the United States. It was the common opinion that Japanese cities were much more vulnerable to firebombing than those of Germany. And although Japanese industry was spread out into residential areas, it was still far more concentrated than its German counterpart. The B-29 had been designed from the start as a high-altitude bomber. In the European theater, it would have had to remain so. But conditions were different in Japan. Anti-aircraft guns and searchlights were not radar controlled. It was reported that there were only two night fighter units in the homeland. Japanese airborne radar was primitive and not widely used. Without notifying General Arnold, LeMay decided to launch a series of maximum effort, low-level incendiary night attacks against Japan. He was putting his career on the line. Night bombing offered many advantages. The winds were not so strong. The B-29's navigation system operated more efficiently, flying at lower altitude, easing the strain on the engines, lowering the fuel consumption, and leaving behind armament and ammunition permitted as a much bigger bomb load, about 12,000 pounds per plane. The concept of unarmed low-level night bombing alarmed many of LeMay's staff. The word murder was quietly mentioned, but never to LeMay. The first raid was set for the night of March 9th. 334 B-29s carried almost 2,000 tons of bombs. The aircraft and lead squadrons were to act as simple pathfinders. Their napalm bombs were intended to start major appliance fires which would require the mobilization of all the Japanese firefighting equipment. The rest of the B-29s each carried 24 cluster units of M69 incendiary bombs. The M69 was designed by a high-level group of American scientists and engineers, some of whom were also involved in the Manhattan Project. Each M69 was only 20 inches long and 3 inches in diameter. It weighed just over 6 pounds. On crashing through the roof of its target, it was designed to detonate and spew out flaming gel as far as 30 yards. The gel stuck to whatever it hit and it burned with hellish intensity. The technology of the M69 and the great logistics and support effort needed to deliver its target was an expression of the disparity between the American and Japanese war machines in 1945. The Japanese simply had no counter and no equivalent. On the evening of March 9th, it took almost three hours for LeMay's entire forces of B-29s to get airborne. The bombers would approach Tokyo individually at altitudes from 4,900 Over Tokyo, the visibility was 10 miles or better. The napalm bombs of the Pathfinder aircraft started fires that were fanned by a brisk and rising wind. The initial attack at a 12-mile square of the most densely populated part of the city. The fire spread rapidly and the results were devastating. The fire services were overwhelmed within 30 minutes of the attack. A firestorm swept the city. More than one-fourth of a million buildings were destroyed. More than one-fourth of the city's houses were gone. More than a million people were homeless. Eighty-three thousand dead. One hundred and sixty thousand injured. The Japanese were horror-stricken. There was no way to comprehend the disaster of this magnitude. It completely overrode the ideas of national superiority and the samurai spirit and of the nation's place in the sun. On March 11th, the city of Nagoya became a target for incendiary attack. There was no firestorm, but two square miles of the city was destroyed. Osaka was attacked on March 13. The city was blanketed by cloud cover and the B-29s were forced to use radar bombing. Unexpectedly, that gave more uniform results than visual bombing. Within three hours, more than eight square miles of the city were totally destroyed. Morale in the B-29 units kept climbing. LeMay had found the magic formula. He made maximum use of the B-29 in tactics that took advantage of the enemy's weakness. These tactics converted the B-29 from a blunder to a war winner. LeMay was on a rampage. He drove his crews hard. They were already flying sixty hours a month. That was higher than the average of the 8th Air Force in Europe. But there was a shortage of replacements and that shortage forced LeMay to increase monthly combat time to 80 hours. He had the scent of victory in his nostrils. Victory over Japan and victory over the concept of airpower. LeMay knew that he had arrived at a point that General Coral Spots and Bomber Harris had only dreamed of. He had the ultimate weapon at his disposal and he knew that there was more to come. He believed that the maximum effort with his command could destroy Japan's ability to wage war. The strength of the 21st Bomber Command grew every day. By April, LeMay had more than 500 aircraft at his disposal. On May 11th, he launched a further attack on the three Japanese cities. His goal was to create such havoc that the terrible cost America had borne invading Okinawa would not be repeated in Japan. By June 15th, he had destroyed 112 square miles of Tokyo, Nagoya, Kobe, Osaka, Yokohama, and Kawasaki. His B-29s had now the benefit of long-range escort fighters, P-51s from Iwo Jima. LeMay had destroyed the six principal industry cities of Japan at a cost of 136 aircraft. The American loss rate 1.9% was acceptable, but the reality of it was still horrific. Japan was not able to stop this destruction. It lacked anti-aircraft guns, radar, and fighters to repel the invaders. It lacked fire engines, bomb shelters, and hospitals to help its citizens. Yet Japan was held captive by a martial spirit. That spirit had served the country ill on almost every battlefield in this war, but the government voted to fight on. LeMay and the 21st Bomber Command had brought Japan to its knees, but it would not surrender. The B-29's success in area bombing was a great relief to all those who had staked so much on its development. At the time, few people were aware of the Manhattan Project and the essential role of the B-29 would have been in the successful delivery of an atomic weapon. By July 1941, a decision had been made to create an atomic bomb before the Germans did. The Manhattan Project eventually employed 120,000 people, including the country's top engineers and scientists. On July 16th, 1945, an experimental bomb was detonated with results that were incredible even to those who had created it. Word of the successful test was immediately sent to the new president, Harry S. Truman. Truman, who was a novice, was plunged into the Potsam conference with Winston Churchill and Joseph Stalin. Truman mentioned to Stalin that a powerful new weapon had been tested. Stalin responded that he hoped it would be tested to good effect against the Japanese. Truman was pleased that Stalin did not press for more information. He was unaware that Stalin already knew what he needed to know from the Soviet spies at the center of the Manhattan Project. The Potsdam Declaration of July 26 indirectly warned the Japanese of the power of a new weapon. It stated that the only alternative to surrender was prompt and utter destruction. Japan was badly wounded by the B-29 raids. It was also cut off from food and industrial imports. Japanese leaders were fully aware that the war was lost, but as yet had not found a way to acknowledge it. A cultural phenomenon emerged unfamiliar to the West. It was Mokusazu, a time-honored technique by which a Japanese officer would take refuge in a lofty silence when he did not agree with or did not understand an order. When the new Japanese Prime Minister Suzuki announced his response to the Post M declaration, he used the term Makatsu. He meant to say in essence no comment, but his remarks were translated as meaning that Japan was contemptuously ignoring the declaration. It was a fatal error. In early 1944, plans for modifying 15 B-29s were formulated. The modifications were not extensive. The atomic bombs were being designed at the same time. The designs were adapted as much as possible to fit the B-29's bomb bay. The following summer, Arnold authorized a top-secret team of experts to create the first combat unit to use the new weapon. Colonel Paul W. Tibbets Jr. was elected as commander of the new 509th Composite Group. The remainder of the mission. The special facilities required for handling and loading the bomb were prepared in Tinian in the spring of 1945. By July, the 509th and its specially modified B-29s were in place. Further training began immediately with six specialized missions. Some of them involved harassment bombing of isolated garrisons on the islands of Truk and Marcus. After July 20th, the 509th crews executed 38 sorties, gaining experience in the precise tactics to be used when the atomic bomb was dropped. These sorties also made the site of small formations of B-29s seemed customary to the Japanese. A list of target cities was drawn up. They were the largest cities with the least damage remaining in Japan. Kyoto was removed because of its cultural significance and because of the negative reaction in Europe to the bombing of Dresden. Truman and Secretary Stimson felt the destruction of Kyoto might drive Japan into the Russian camp after the war. Hiroshima was now at the head of the line. Later Nagasaki was added to the list. On Tinian, all necessary elements of the strike were prepared. Field Order Number 13 was signed on August 2, 1945 by Lieutenant General Nathan Twining. It directed the 509th Group to make a visual attack on Hiroshima. At one time, Hiroshima had been a busy naval port. But the port had been mined and the population was now reduced to under a quarter of a million people. There were many military installations. The entire economy was geared to the Japanese war effort. There were no Allied prisoner of war camps in the area. Seven aircraft were assigned to the mission. Leading the principal force was Tibbets and Enola Gay, named after his mother. Enola Gay was accompanied by two escort planes, crammed with cameras and observers to record the event. Three aircraft were assigned duty as weather planes, one was designated as spare. On August 4th, the crews were told that the exact nature of the mission and one of the bombs predicted 20,000 tons of TNT power, but even then they were not told it was an atomic bomb. At 2.45 in the morning of August 6, the Enola Gay took off. Five and a half hours later, Tibbets received word that the weather and visibility were good. Le Gaye was flying at 328 miles an hour at 31,600 feet. Bombardier Major Thomas Farrabee dropped the bomb. Tibbets then executed what later became known as the breakaway maneuver, a steeply banked 150 degree turn to avoid the expected blast by the time the bomb exploded 50 seconds later. The Enola Gay was 19 miles away. At detonation, there occurred the fireball, followed by the swiftly rising mass of smoke that turned into the notorious Mushroom Cloud, the cloud that still casts its symbolic shadow. President Truman immediately announced the event to the world. The news amazed every many members of the 509th Composite Group. The Japanese reaction was confused. Officially, they'd diminished the results of the attack. They said that it was only a new bomb which should not be made light of. Certainly not. 4.7 square miles of Hiroshima Center had been obliterated. More than 40,000 buildings were destroyed. Almost 80,000 people were killed. 171,000 were made homeless. LeMay's B-29s and the US Navy's carrier forces maintained pressure against Japan while the sole remaining atomic weapon in the world was prepared for use. The second and last atomic mission of the war began at 3.49 on August 9. Major Sweeney and his crew flew boxcar. They traded their aircraft, the Great Artees, to Captain Frederick C. Bach. Sweeney's mission was as troublesome as Tibbets' mission had been trouble-free. The primary target was Kokura, but it was weathered in. Sweeney made three bomb runs. The bombardier couldn't see the target visually. Some Japanese fighters were in the area. Sweeney diverted to the secondary target Nagasaki, which was also cloud-covered. Boxcar used radio for its run-in at the last minute. the target at 1058, he hit the bomb release. Most people were either at work or at home when the bomb to a relatively small Nagasaki's bowl-shaped terrain confined the effects of the bomb to a relatively small 1.45 square mile area. Approximately 35,000 people were killed. Incredibly, Emperor Hirohito's advisors on the Supreme Council for the direction of the war still debated whether or not to surrender. As Adolf Hitler had done, the military factions still wanted to resist in hope of obtaining better terms. On August 19th, the Japanese announced not their surrender but their willingness to accept the Potsdam Declaration. In the days preceding the Japanese statement, routine B-29 missions had continued. On On August 11th, they were suspended to give the negotiations a chance to mature. The United States responded to the August 10th Japanese statement by advising that from the moment of surrender, the authority of the Emperor and the Japanese government, LeMay's B-29s were authorized to resume attacks. General Arnold had long waited his own Tokyo Millennium, 1,000 aircraft over Tokyo, while General Spatz would have preferred to use such third atomic bomb if one had been available. LeMay was able to meet Arnold's wish. He put up a total of 828 bombers and 186 fighters, over 1,000 aircraft in, all over Tokyo on August 14. Before the last aircraft had landed, Japan had surrendered. The American forces continue to make a display of their air power over Japan. This reached the highlight September 2nd. 462 B-29s cruised over Tokyo Bay. All the surrender was signed aboard the USS Missouri. In the meantime, 900 B-29s had dropped almost 5,000 tons of supplies to more than 63,000 prisoners of war. Not only that, but camps in Japan, China, and Korea. Not only that, but camps in Japan, China, and Korea. They came home shot full of holes too numerous to count, with chunks of engine missing and hydraulic fluid bleeding through the gaping tears in the aluminum skin. Love them or hate them, nobody's ever questioned the Republic P-47 Thunderbolt's ability to bring a pilot back safely. It absorbed, as I said, a tremendous amount of damage and would still fly. The inline engine wouldn't absorb anything. The radial engine, you know, we've had cases of people losing several cylinders and still coming back. They would really take, like I said, really take a beating from being shot up or anything more than any other aircraft. They were really a tough bird. There was one case when I was waiting for takeoff and the plane came in and landed and it had been hit in the engine and one piston was flipping up and down in the air and the other piston was gone and the plane flew in and landed and the guy pulled off the runway, he didn't tax it and he got out. 47 was a great airplane for that. It absorbed tremendous damage and still fly. The group commander took it through a tree. Literally the aircraft went through, the tree was the loser. The wings didn't come off, but he just forgot what he was flying and what altitude he was at and went through a pretty large tree. Lots of damage, structural damage on the wings, but the aircraft came home. I don't think that a, I know a 51 wouldn't have done it, I don't think a 40 or I don't think a 38 would have done it. So it was that kind of an aircraft. I had dropped my bomb, done my job, I headed home. I get back and I land and people are running alongside the aircraft pointing at it as I taxied and I lean out and look and the whole side is covered with oil and when I got out I got a hole a foot big in the engine and two cylinders missing, but it ran fine. For two critical years, the P-47 Thunderbolt served as a backbone the U.S. Army Air Force's fighter force battling on every front in every conceivable climate and terrain. The P-47 played a major role in the defeat of the Luftwaffe in the skies over Europe. Yet since the end of World War II, the P-47 has been overshadowed by the fame and glamour of the Lockheed P-38 and North American P-51 Mustang. I think you could describe it as the bare knuckles brawler. It wasn't the sleek thoroughbred as the Spitfire. It wasn't the graceful, you know, pre-war design of the P-38 that was like the Buck Rogers fighter plane in World War II. I mean, the P-38 was what everybody dreamed of. bolt, I think what endeared itself most well to the pilots was the fact that it had tremendous firepower. It could carry a huge load for ground support, which is exactly what it was best at, I think. And it could take incredible amounts of battle damage. I mean, you've seen pictures of airplanes that have hit trees, they've got cylinders knocked off the engines, the cowling's gone, the wings are canted back, just the leading edge of the wings are just beat off, the gun barrels are torn from the airplane, and it flies all the way home and brings the pilot back. I think that is the greatest quality of the airplane. By war's end, over 15,600 P-47s had been produced, more than any other American aircraft save the consolidated B-24 Liberator. Even today, the P-47 Thunderbolt inspires intense emotions amongst the pilots assigned to fly it. After sharing the air with the 47, a pilot either came back a devoted converse or appalled that the Republic ever designed such a monstrous fighter. When I took my training, I took it at Bradley Field in Connecticut and there were P-40 pilots that were there. And they didn't really, they didn't fly with you. And all they did was check you out. And they weren't, they weren't really too enthused with the P-47. So when I went overseas, I did not want to fly the P-47. I wanted to get out of the 38s or 51s. When I got to this base, a P-47 came over there, and he went across that base. He pulled up and did one roll, and we just were in awe, you know. My God, that thing will fly. And I went from one inch tall to ten foot tall. It was a great experience looking back on it, flying the 47. It was a very forgiving aircraft, and the work that we used it for was great. But it's like anything, a driver of a car, airplane drivers are the same way. You fall in love with something and you don't want to trade, you don't want to get rid of the things. And we weren't smart enough to know that, well, it's probably going to save your life many more times than the 38 might because it's not as vulnerable as an in-line engine aircraft. There's a 40, 51, or 38, but it still was not my first love. The models that I flew were very sluggish and climbing. In fact, I didn't consider it very good until you got to higher altitude, you know, where your supercharged engine was a big advantage. I think a pilot, a fighter pilot probably lived longer in a P-47 than any other fighter. It's more rugged by far than any other fighter. And we only had them for a short time. They gave us our P-40s, or we were flying P-40s at the time, all the time that we were transitioning into the P-47s, and they just decided to take the P-47s away and let us continue with the P-40s. And I think we were all happy about that. Love or hate the P-47, everyone agreed on one thing. It was the toughest fighter ever built. Practically everyone who flew the Thunderbolt has a story to tell about its legendary durability. ability. They speak of holes hacked out of the wing by light flak that were so big ground crewmen posed with their heads poking through them. Others remember cannon shells severing controls tearing great gouges out of the cowling. They remember the thumping of the bullets as they slammed into the armor plating behind their seat. And they remember thanking God and Republic for building the P-47 like a brick outhouse. Tough enough to handle the dirtiest of dirty work and built to survive a Kansas tornado. The P-47 owes its genesis to a Russian emigre turned aircraft designer named Alexander Dzyaburski. He had come to the United States between the wars and had started his own aircraft company in the 1930s. He was a Russian immigrant who flew during World War I and was a great proponent of pursuit aviation. The P-35 was his original fighter, low wing, all metal, retractable landing gear. The second aircraft was the P-43 Lancer, which was a further refinement of the P-35 design. The ultimate was the P-47, which was the final derivative. Just before World War II, Sibersky Aviation became Republic Aviation, and the same design team that worked on the P-35 went with Republic and began working on their first major project, which was the P-43 Lancer. And you could see a real clear lineage in the development of the P-47 based on these three designs. The P-35, the P-43, the P-47 all share common characteristics and resemble each other. Well, the P-43 went into production shortly after World War II began, and it served as an export fighter. It wasn't something that the US Army Air Force could use. So Republic sent it overseas to the Chinese where it did not have a very distinguished service career by any means. Designed to be a high-altitude fighter, the P-43 has a top speed of 350 miles an hour and could carry a pair of 50 caliber machine guns in the nose and 430 calibers in the wings. Initially delivered in September 1940, the P-43 impressed some with its high service ceiling of 38,000 feet. Nonetheless, the Lancer proved inferior to most fighters of the day, and the Army Air Corps used them only for tactical reconnaissance training in the United States. The P-43 was a failed design. There was no way the Republic could look at this as anything but a failure. And here they were in the middle of wartime America, they needed to be able to come up with a design that would be effective, not just from a cost standpoint and a contract standpoint, but also they were interested in building a war-winning aircraft. And they chose to go the evolutionary route. So they studied their design, they studied the failure, they examined the reasons why, they got back reports from operational units and decided to progress in a slightly different course, but they did extract some of the better attributes of the P-43 and they applied them to what became the P-47 program. In 1939, the Army Air Force issued a request for a high-altitude fighter that could use the new turbo-supercharger that Boeing had developed for the B-17 heavy bomber. Such an installation on the fighter would require the plane to be huge indeed, but that didn't deter Republic. After studying the Army Air Force's requirements, the company's chief designer quipped it'll be a dinosaur but a dinosaur with good proportions. Because of the Army's specifications on this new fighter, Republic chose to design the P-47 around two main features. The first was a brand new engine called the Pratt &amp; Whitney R-2800, which was an 18-cylinder radial engine. It was just monstrous, and it provided 2,000 horsepower, which was far more than most any other engine of its day. So it was a very revolutionary engine. The other thing that they needed to design around was the fact that the turbo-supercharger took up a lot of space. So the reason why the fuselage for the P-47 is so deep is because of the fact that the engine was so enormous to begin with and the ductwork and all the accoutrements for the turbo-supercharger required a massive amount of space. Dubbed the XP-47B, the new fighter possessed enormous gait. As it sat on its wide long landing gear, it remained some of a giant milk jug on wheels. As a result, throughout the war starts, the U.S. Army Air Corps places an order for 773 P-47s with Republic. And this $56 million contract is really a rich plum for Republic to get, but it represents quite a risk on the part of the Air Corps with the slender resources that are available at the time. Not only was it risky, but it was a leap of faith that Republic could actually deliver. At the same time, the fact that they did this a year before the prototype flew was also symptomatic of a larger problem, which was there were so few combat capable aircraft, especially fighter designs, being conceived of and built in the United States at the time, that the Air Force had to take the risk. There really wasn't very many other options. Republic's early test flights of the prototype revealed tremendous potential and more than justified the Army's leap of faith. Though it weighed over 5 tons, the XP-47 could reach speeds over 400 miles an hour. In fact, at altitude, it was the fastest fighter ever built for the Army Air Force up to that time. Tests also show that the P-47 was an excellent formation aircraft. The P-47, when you pulled the power on it, that huge nose out there was like running into a haystack, suddenly you quit. It was easy to fly formation, because at 38, you come in and overrun everybody. It was the first thing we all learned when we left inline engine. You want to slow down early and sneak up on your flight leader. But on the 47, it was a beautiful airplane for flying. So, you know, close, very close. We tracked or trapped our flight leader one time, two of us coming up the Iroati River ran into the overlapping wings. And he would go like this, you know, but you wouldn't dare do that in an aircraft that wouldn't stop or start as quickly as a 47. In close formation, you're leading, you're leading on, three guys are flying on another guy and they're not taking their eyes off of it. They're flying on him all the time. They're looking at him all the time, especially if you get into clouds. If you fly in the clouds, you've got to be in tight formation, otherwise you can run into one another. And you have a mission. We had a mission one time. I think it was a five-hour mission. We were probably four hours in the clouds. And two flights finished the mission. The guy was leading the group on my flight. The rest of them went home, got in trouble, went home. The first production Thunderbolts rolled off Republic's assembly lines in early 1942. That spring, the Army Air Force decided that the 56th Fighter Group would be the inaugural P-47 outfit in the service. It was a historic decision that laid the foundation for one of the greatest legacies in Air Force history. With its P-47 Thunderbolts, the 56th Fighter Group by War's End, become one of the highest scoring outfits in history. With dozens of aces in its ranks, the 56th became better known as the Wolf Pack. In the spring of 1942, the recently formed 56th Fighter Group that had been training with a Motley collection of P-40s, P-39s and AT-6s, was given the first production batch of Thunderbolts. Known as Zemke's Wolfpack, after the commander's hub Zemke, the 56th Fighter Group would fly P-47s for three years straight, while building up a combat history that has become legendary since the war. Hub Zemke was one of those rare pilots who possessed a very interesting blend of talents. One of the things that he is remembered for is his uncanny marksmanship. He was a great shot. He was also a great aviator. He was a tremendous pilot, had phenomenal talent there. But what really makes him stand out and gives him kind of a uniqueness not found in other aces is the fact that he was a great leader of men as well. He could inspire and lead like few men of World War II. And because of that, and plus his other talents in the air, those combined really made him one of the great combat air leaders of World War II. 56 had most of the Aces most of the time. And they, 56 wound up with the highest air-to-air victories of any group in the, over in the 8th Air Force and I think any group in the war and they had they were second for total uh aircraft destroyed but they were first in air air-to-air combat. I was assigned to the 63rd squadron which was Comstock squadron in fact as those four of us got there it was uh it's four or five and we all finished our tours. And none of us were shot down. I bailed out once and other kids may have gotten wounded, but we all finished our tours. And that was really pretty good. In 1942, while still training in the States, the Wolf Pack received the first P-47s. The unit's pilots soon discovered the new plane could be a handful. With some dangerous characteristics, the Thunderbolt could kill unsuspecting or inexperienced pilots with frightening frequency. You got going real fast, and you approached the speed of sound, the plane started tucking. What do you do when it tucks straight down? Of course, the minute you start feeling that, you pull the power off. And usually, by the time you've changed the air a little bit, it'll start coming out and you're all right. I don't know of anyone, no, I, I, there were a couple cases where people did not get the power off fast enough and they went right straight into the ground. The 56th Fighter Group suffered many accidents in the course of working up with the P-47 in 1942. The reason for these accidents are pretty varied, but basically the bottom line was this. The pilots who were flying this new airplane were used to T-6s and BT-13s, fairly benign aircraft, and the P-47 represented a new level of power and performance that they really were frankly ill-equipped to deal with. So it was a tricky plane to fly. By the time they went to Europe, they had lost over a dozen pilots in training, which represents about 10% of the group dying before they even got into combat. The pilots had to learn that size didn't matter. The P-47 was simply huge, weighing in at over 13,500 pounds when loaded. With a wingspan of 40 feet and a length of 36 feet and sitting 15 feet off the ground, the P-47 was probably, well, it was the heaviest fighter that they built. It weighed 14,000 pounds loaded when you're going to take off in combat. Despite its size at high altitude, the men of the 56th discovered their new fighter could outperform every other American aircraft, army, air force or navy of its day. Its broad wing gave it tremendous agility at heights. Other aircraft could hardly maneuver effectively. Some converts were made right there, fast and brutish looking, the P-47 was the type of plane that could look like it got into a toe-to-toe fight, take a beating, but always come out on top. And it could dish out far deadlier punishment than any other World War II fighter with 8.50 caliber machine guns. The Thunderbolt's firepower was truly awesome. I strafed trains one day and tipped a boxcar over on its side, not exploded, just tipped it over from the impact. So tremendous firepower on those 850. Preyton Gross, a 354th Fighter Group Mustang Ace, recalls being the receiving end of a P-47s coming in had thought they had two 109 and so they were picking me off. They shot my canopy off, it was gone. My plane did a snap roll involuntary and so I, well I was still alive so I did a recovery and pulled out and here came the P-47s again and I rocked my wing frantically and this guy pulls up alongside of me and goes, oh, and takes off and leaves me there. I didn't know how badly my plane had been hit. The radio worked, the controls work, I came back and the plane had almost a hundred holes in it. Some entry, some leaving, but it was like a sill. With terrific firepower, excellent high-altitude performance, and an airframe built to withstand massive amounts of damage. The men of the 56th Fighter Group gradually grew to love their P-47 Thunderbolts. By the time the group deployed to New England to join the 8th Air Force in early 1943, its pilots were dismayed to learn that they weren't going to be the first P-47 unit into combat after all. As it turned out, the 4th Fighter Group beat them to the punch. Formed from the famous Eagle Squadron the previous year, the 4th Fighter Group converted the fourth fighter group converted to Thunderbolts just a few days before the 56 arrived in England. And here, the love-hate relationship that characterized a pilot's relationship with the P-47 began. The man of Don Blakeslee's fourth fighter group had been used to light the nimble Spitfires. None of them wanted to part with their spits, especially not for something as huge as ungainly as the Thunderbolt. As much as the 56th Fighter Group loved their P-47s, the 4th despised theirs. The first combat missions flown by the P-47s took place in the spring of 1943. Air Force had several Thunderbolt groups by then, and the units began flying sweeps over France to get acquainted with air combat. These early P-47 operations in the fighter sweeps over France were plagued by several difficulties. First of all, this was a new aircraft. It had its fair share of mechanical problems that had to be worked out. Secondly, the American pilots were simply green and inexperienced at this point in the war. And lastly, and probably most significantly, they were up against some of the best German fighter pilots at the time, and therefore some of the best in the world. And they were flying FW-190As and Messerschmitt-109Gs, some of the best fighter aircraft in the world at the time.&quot; Then on April 15, tax day, Uncle Sam finally received payback for all the money invested in the P-47. A squadron from the 4th Fighter Group while on patrol over France caught two Fw 190s in the air and shot them both down. Those would be the only victories the Thunderbolt would have for quite some time. In the first two months of combat operations, the three P-47 groups flew 2,279 sorties, resulting in 10 German planes claimed as destroyed. In return, 18 P-47s had been lost. Both the enemy fire and catastrophic engine failure, and the 56th Fighter Group shot down its first plane, an Fw 190. That seemed to break the pilots' bad luck. From then on, the 13th pilots from the 56th surprised the formation of Fw 190s and blasted three of them from the sky without a loss. From then on, the 56 went on a rampage, more than earning the nickname, the Wolfpack. I had a 109, got a 109 I think in December. We'd chased him from altitude on down, and we were really moving going down. And so I just stayed with him, and then I, he went into the clouds, so I pulled back up, because I knew I'd overrun him. And sure, up there he'd come out of the clouds, and I went back down on him again, and got on him and hit him right in the right wing, and he started smoking and went on into the - crashed into the trees. So I don't know whether I killed the pilot. I didn't see his chute. The 190 I got, the guy bailed out. And the Hinkle 111, I don't know whether - I don't think anybody bailed out of that. I didn't see anybody. I think we'd been escorting, and if we had a little bit of gas, we might go down and see if we could find up a target of opportunity. And we ran across these guys, about 20 of them. We tangled with them, and we got 15. And one guy chased one guy, but he couldn't catch you. And we were on the deck, working on the deck, and I think we could outfly him on the deck. He couldn't get away from me. I could turn and keep right with him. So I had him going and going and he finally decided it was better to get out than to get shot down. Towards the end of the summer of 1943, the P-47C was gradually replaced by the D-mod. Initially, little distinguished the two versions. Prior to the fall of 1943, the P-47, including the D version, had really not proven itself to be effective as an escort fighter for the 8th Air Force. And the major problem was that they had this fuel guzzling engine and it limited their range so that they were unable to provide cover for the bombers and the main targets inside Germany. And this problem really isn't resolved until the P-47 D-15 model arrives in England. This model has the ability to put wing tanks underneath each of the wings. Each of those wing tanks is 108 gallons. And that gives the P-47D-15 the extra range it needs to begin to be effective as an escort fighter for the heavy bomber force. The Thunderbolt now had almost twice the amount of fuel of earlier versions. He-47 soon appeared over Germany within 150 miles of Berlin, wreaking havoc wherever they went. By the spring of 1944, the Thunderbolt had come into its own as a high-altitude escort fighter. As more P-51 Mustangs flooded in England, the Thunderbolts rapidly disappeared from the 8th Air Force inventory until just the 56th Fighter Group continued to fly them. The 56th refused to change over. They loved their 47th, especially after the new wide-bladed propellers arrived that greatly enhanced the plane's climb rate and acceleration. Also by this point, Republic started to produce a lightweight, more powerful version of the P-47 that only the 56th Fighter Group used in combat. Designated the P-47M, it was the ultimate Thunderbolt. About a hundred and fifty of them made and they all came to the 56th Fighter Group except maybe a couple of a couple generals got. Actually it was the best propeller plane that was actually in the war and I think it was it was clocked at the fast I think about 470 or 480 I think the 351 is about 460. It was supposed to be the and we were the fastest actually was the fastest plane that that they had. The P-47M also came with a dramatically increased range, thanks to the advent of larger capacity external fuel tanks. This was the ultimate version of the Thunderbolt in Europe and was finally able to stay with the bombers all the way through Berlin and back. You just cruise back and forth. If you're top cover, you just kind of weave back and forth, or if you were maybe over at the target, you'd go over the target and you'd just kind of weave back and forth over the target until all the bombers left and then you'd go back. Usually you'd either have a duty of taking them in, you'd pick them up a certain point, you'd take them to a certain point, then another group would relieve you. And then, because we couldn't stay up there that long, see the bombers fly what, eight, nine, ten mile a mission, and depending how far it is and then you'd go home and they would take him so far and then somebody else would pick him up and bring him home. Even in the war's waning months, the P-47 proved to be a formidable air-to-air adversary and continued to rack up an impressive toll against the Luftwaffe's best and latest fighters. My squadron flew one mission where I think they shot down 11 Long Nose F-190s. Eight P-47s shot down 11 Long Nose F-190s and didn't lose anybody. But I was on the Riviera, on R&amp;R on that mission. By war's end, the 56th Fighter Group had become the top-scoring 8th Air Force unit in air-to-air victories. While the group lost 128 P-47s in combat, its pilots shot down 674 German planes and destroyed another 300 on the ground. With almost a thousand planes to its credit, the Wolf Pack had more than proven that when the P-47 could be a terror to all its foes. Throughout 1944, as its long-range escort role diminished, the 9th Air Force adopted the P-47 for a new role. Ground attack. Never designed for low-altitude work, pilots weren't sure how the Thunderbolt would function down on the treetops, shooting up German targets on the ground. Though it didn't perform as well on the deck as it did at 25,000 feet, the P-47 soon more than proved its worth in the new role. In fact, by war's end, it had compiled a record so remarkable that it easily became the best American fighter bomber of the war. Among its many contributions was as a premier American ground support machine. This was the close air support fighter par excellence, a Normandy campaign. In fact, Saving Private Ryan I thought was an excellent movie, but at the end where the tank busters arrive and save the day, they're P-51 Mustangs. It would have been, I think, more accurate and more representative of what actually happened to have those P-47 Thunderbolts doing the ground support mission. Because the P-47 was a true ground support star, whereas the P-51, yes, it did those missions but that wasn't its major contribution. On the deck, the 47's ruggedness was its greatest asset. Many of the Thunderbolt pilots survived the Holocaust of flak and machine gun fire thanks to the sheer toughness of his plane's hide. I was the number four pilot being the youngest or the newest I should say and tooling along and suddenly the field out in front just lit up like a Christmas tree. I took something in the right wing that blew off every shell I had out there. I had not fired a round of that time. But it had to have been of incendiary nature because there wasn't any ammunition left when it was all over. It blew the gun tray lid on the four guns out on the right wing up about that high. And of course, holes all over the thing. thing, headed for home, decided that the damn thing was flying and I would stay with it. Let down then, oh probably about 20, 30 miles from home, put the wheels down, way out, everything worked fine, except that the stall speed was all screwed up. Landed, burned the brakes out or not, I really didn't care, the class 26, the airplane anyway, they didn't have repairs for them and it was that wing the way it was. I guess I was forever thankful that the darn gear went down. But, you know, 1800 rounds and they, you could see visible flame in there from whatever hit it, set it off, or set the ammunition off. That was, you know, be real proud even though he didn't like the 47, having come from 38, but it absorbed tremendous damage. As far as I was concerned, it was a testimony to the manufacturing talent of the Republic. The Thunderbolt's powerful engine could drag aloft a dizzying array of bombs and rockets, making it amazingly versatile in the fighter-bomber role. We had two 500-pound bombs and then normally we carried a fragmentation bomb on the belly, 260-pound frag bomb, which was an anti-personnel bomb. We carried a wide variety of bombs and what have you. We carried two 500-pound bombs. We carried napalm. We carried 1,000-pound straight GPs. We carried a thousand pound, they were in a shell similar to a 50-gallon drum, just pure dynamite. They were concussion instruments because some of the areas that we were dive bombing in and against troops were steep enough that the concussion, the blast would kill people. It just depended on what the particular ground support mission requested. As the P-47's role as an escort fighter was eclipsed by the P-51, so grew its role as a ground attack weapon. 9th Air Force P-47s played a tremendously important role from D-Day through to the end of the war, supporting the ground troops as they pushed forward and to the right. We were almost entirely there to support troops on the ground. In my case, we were in what we call 29th TAC. The 9th Air Force was organized into three tactical air forces, 9th, 19th and 29th. The 9th was on the south end, 19th was in the middle and 29th was on the north end of the U.S. forces as we were going across France and Germany. So we supported the troops that were in 9th Army. We would go out and they'd say, armed reconnaissance. And what that meant essentially was if you see anything moving, go shoot, go hit it. Because by that time in the war, the Germans, there were no civilian vehicles moving in Germany. They were all related to the military in some way. Even the horse-drawn and all that were usually carrying ammunition or food or something for the troops. And anything from a single staff car to a convoy of trucks would be a target if it was moving and we were there. I can recall a mission where we were strafing about four or five large trucks. They weren't semis, they were big vans on a truck chassis and just going down a road in convoy and we were strafing those. and they were coming to an intersection, a 90-degree intersection in the road, and in one corner of that was a woods. And as my flight commander was pulling off the target, he just had me look down the woods and he said, Hey, that woods is full of airplanes. So next time around, he made a pass on the woods, strafing. And the wind had a shot fired at us to the left, and then the whole sky lit up. He got 104 or 105 holes in the squadron commander's airplane in the process, lost a cylinder off his engine, and lost his radio. I was flying his wing, and he hollered at us, don't come in, and none of the rest of us did. So he's the only one that got hit. But he got it home with 104 holes in the airplane and one cylinder missing off the engine. And so on, and the next day they went back out and bombed the airfield itself and knocked it out. Tanks were flying targets for the rolling bands of Thunderbolt pilots. During the Battle of the Bulge, the P-47 squadrons helped blunt the German attacks on those few days when the weather cleared enough to get the planes aloft. Our target ended up being, it was five, might have been six, Tiger tanks that were parked in an open field, snow on the ground, so they were probably very visible, parked in an open field. And I think probably because of the fuel situation, they were out of, the Germans had no fuel, they were out of fuel, and they had parked them there and lined them up and were using them as artillery. story. But those were our targets. It's a kind of a story in my group, or my squadron. I just saw the guy yesterday. Dropped a 500-pound bomb right down the open hatch of a Tiger tank. It just happened to go right in my hands. During the crossing of the line, the 9th Air Force's P-47s once more played a key role in the overall operation. Yet the Germans with all their proficiency were able to strike back with desperate intensity. We went up there with bombs and guns and waited to be hollered at for a target. We watched the paratroopers go in. The Germans actually, when the paratroopers went across, I don't know how high they were, but I would guess 5,000 or 6,000 feet, the Germans actually lowered the 88s, the anti-aircraft 88s, and fired so that the shells broke in the--amongst the parachutes after the guys were out of the airplane and their chutes were open. And it was pretty bad. You could just see that. And the gliders came in. They were getting hit, too. But--and while we were doing that, waiting for a target to be called, we had a squadron of British Lancasters come overhead and opened a bomb bay door and started dropping bombs just almost through our formation. There was a lot going on. It wasn't all coordinated as well as it could have been. Nobody got hit or hurt, so we were okay. By war's end, Thunderbolt units had destroyed more targets than any other British or American fighter bomber, tens of thousands of trucks, hundreds of tanks, thousands of aircraft, and tons of supply went in flames as a result of marauding P-47 attacks. No other aircraft pack is devastating a punch and nothing in the air could take the amount of ground fire and get its pilot home as could the beloved P-47. When the world celebrated V-E day, the Jug pilots in the 8th, 12th, 15th and 9th Air Forces could look back the fight on their accomplishments, knowing they played a significant role in defeating the Nazi war machine. While the P-47 played an integral role in the war in Europe, Thunderbolts had less success in the Pacific Theater until very late in the war. The major thing that stymied the 47s operational use against the Japanese was its massive fuel consumption. What really shook us up when we were getting the 47s in New Guinea was the way that thing consumed gasoline because fuel consumption was enormous, you know, compared to a P-40. The P-47 represented a lot of challenges to the guys in the 5th Air Force, one of which was the fact that it consumed fuel at such a rapid rate. But when the 348th Fighter Group arrived in the Southwest Pacific, its commanding officer, Neil Kirby, became one of the advocates for the Thunderbolt. And he went all over to different fighter units in the Fifth Air Force to try to convince, he was almost evangelical about it, to try to convince the other fighter leaders that this was a terrific aircraft type. He was met by stiff resistance, but eventually there were several Thunderbolt groups that were deployed to the southwest Pacific, and they gradually figured out ways to work around the fuel consumption issues. Half a world away, Claire Chennault's 14th Air Force in China was offered the P-47. Chennault, with his crippling fuel shortage, was not impressed. They took the 47, they carried them across to China. And when Chennault found out the kind of fuel consumption the P-47 had, he kicked him out of there in one big hurry. Just couldn't afford that kind of a drain on his limited fuel supplies. Though the P-47 never saw wide-span use in China, it turned out to be an excellent fighter bomber for Burma. Here, as in many other theaters, the 47's ruggedness saved many lives. Meanwhile, as the front moved closer to Japan and the Central Pacific, the P-47 squadrons of the 7th Air Force were in the vanguard of the advance. When the Marines and Army landed in the Marianas Island in June of 1944, the P-47s of the 318th Fighter Group were operating from the island within just a few days after the invasion of Saipan. Getting to Saipan, however, proved to be a great challenge, unable to ferry them in from any forward Central Pacific air bases. The 7th Air Force resorted to putting the 318th's P-47 on escort carriers. The baby flattops sailed to the Marianas laden with the ungainly Thunderbolts. Once off of Saipan, the men of the 318th climbed into their P-47s and catapulted off the narrow carrier decks. Miraculously, not a single P-47 was lost during the operation, and the 318th was soon operating in support of the ground troops from Isley Field on Saipan. It was the only time in history where Thunderbolts were launched from aircraft carriers and had been a rousing success. At war's end, the 7th, 13th, and 5th Air Forces P-47 groups were marshaled around Ishima and Okinawa. Preparation for the invasion of Japan flying ground attack, combat air patrol, and long-range escort engines right up to the Japanese surrender, the Pacific Thunderbolts were given a solid, if unspectacular account of themselves. In one of the last and great Thunderbolt fights, the 318th Fighter Group managed to shoot down 34 Kamikazes of Okinawa in the running four-hour battle. The last major production variant of the P-47 was the N-MOM, and about 1,800 were built, and Republic Aviation had designed them specifically to overcome the vast distances involved in the Pacific War. The P-47N had a much greater internal fuel capacity, and they were capable of escorting B-29s all the way to Japan and back from bases on Iwo Jima and Okinawa. When Japan finally surrendered in August of 1945, the Thunderbolt had become the most heavily produced American fighter of its generation, with over 15,000 being produced. As an escort aircraft and ground attack weapon, the P-47 formed the backbone of the Army Air Force's fighter commands through the tough middle years of World War II. In the post-war years, the P-47 quickly disappeared. By the early 1950s, the once omnipresent P-47 had become as scarce as the dodo bird. As the war faded into memory, the P-47 has lived in the P-51's shadow. In reality, no other fighter contributed more to victory than the Thunderbolt. It did the dirty work, the trying ground attack and close air support missions that held no glory, but saved the lives of The P-47 helped crush the Luftwaffe in the air and on the ground, setting the stage for total Allied air superiority by leading. Workhorse. Loved by some, despised by others. force. Loved by some, despised by others, the P-47 ranks as one of the greatest aerial weapons to have ever existed during World War II. In the early days of flight, most planes were flying boats. Lakes, rivers, bays and oceans provided ready-made runways. But by the time World War II started, these runways were not always located where runways were needed. So, a shift to make runways and planes with landing gear became the usual configuration for aircraft. However, there was one seaplane that continued throughout the war and excelled in areas that other aircraft simply took no part in. Even though the plane was dated before the war started, it overcame its age to go on to be one of the most famous C.Y. Catalina. Like most illustrious planes of the bygone eras of the great wars, the Catalina's creation can be found in the aspirations of one of aviation's great pioneers. This is 1918 in the United States, and it's the day the airmail service begins, and it's such was the importance of the event that President Wilson attended to witness the posting of the aircraft was Major Reuben Fleet. Fleet went on to form the company that produced the Catalina and many other outstanding aircraft. The corporation was Consolidated Aircraft Company, which are based in Buffalo. In 1936, he'd moved the company to this site in San Diego, California, to build the Navy's new flying boat. During the Depression, contracts were scarce and competition was tough, and this move was a huge risk for the fledgling company. In the contemporaries of aviation development, Thleet took to the challenge. His chief designer, Isaac M. Lattin, was convinced that Consolidated could build a superior flying boat than what was already in service. His focus was on the airframe and improved engine technology. It's interesting to note that at this point all other seaplanes were biplanes. The Catalina was the first monowing to take to the water and the air. The original model was flown in 1933. Although there was a number of versions produced, it's the model 5 that's most recognized as it was produced in larger numbers and was the most used during the Second World War. Boeing, Vickers and the Naval Air Factory also built them under license. The United States Navy employed over 3,000 of the Catalina. Other Commonwealth nations including Britain and the Dutch, also utilized the outstanding services that the Catalina would provide. The distinguishing feature of the Model 5 and its predecessors is the bubble-type blister on the fuselage. This was used as a gun turret and offered superb visibility for spotting and tracking the enemy. The blister was also very useful in another role. That of sea rescues. The visibility from the blister was greatly appreciated by Catalina crews that were engaged in rescuing downed pilots and shipwreck victims during the war. One of the early examples of seaplanes being used as mercy craft or rescue planes is probably found in the Coast Guard's history. During the late 1920s and early 1930s, the Coast Guard regularly used a flying boat to assist in marine rescues and evacuations, as well as for weather observation. It was a natural transition for the Catalina's wartime duties. Seaplanes excelled in numerous roles during the war years, but one of their most outstanding successes was that of submarine spotting and bombing. In the early years of the war, the highly efficient U-boat captains dispatched a considerable amount of Allied shipping to the sea floor. At the time, there was little the Allies could do, however, it was realized that if the flying Given a suitable range, they would be the perfect spotting platforms. The Germans had gained control over the crucial shipping lanes across the Atlantic in a bid to strangle Britain of the desperately needed wartime supplies. The PBY Catalina took over from the earlier bi-winged flying boats and two models were formed. A true seaplane and an amphibious craft that had retractable undercarriage which allowed it to land on both the sea and terra firma. It was designated as the 5A model. There were obvious advantages with the 5A model, however they were slower, heavier and subsequently had a reduced range. As soon as Britain received the Catalina, they were immediately pressed into service as submarine hunters. The Catalina had a range that exceeded 4,000 miles, and this permitted it to escort convoys much further than was previously possible. The Catalina was the first real weapon that assisted in keeping the sea lanes open. The effectiveness of the Catalina was vastly improved when the first British radar system was installed in the North Atlantic squadrons. Once detected, the Catalinas would assault the submarines with bombs or depth charges. Consolidated's Californian factory continued to build the PBY-5 nearly right throughout the war. The PBY-5 was so successful that even as later models became available, the 5 and 5A model still maintained healthy orders. The PBY's construction was a mixture of boat building and aircraft manufacture. The wing, which was perhaps the most important part regarding the PBY's success, was built from steel and hand-stitched canvas. The wing was made of steel and a skin constructed from a special unbleached cotton cloth that was hand-stitched to the steel framework. Combination of cloth and metal gave the wing strength and the linen contributed to the lightness of the construction. The wing was then coated with a special aviation dope that stretched the cotton tight and bonded the two materials together. The assembly of this consumed hundreds of hours of demanding craftsmanship. Another feature of the PBY's wing was its retractable wingtip floats that could be raised during flight to reduce drag and improve the aircraft's handling characteristics. The large wing of the PBY was the secret to the plane's success. It provided great lift and held the plane's entire fuel load that would give the PBY its legendary long-range capability. Another interesting fact is that the dry climate of California permitted the construction of some aspects of the PBY, such as the fitting of the wings, to be completed outdoors. This saved the company from having to build thousands of square feet of roofed factory space. Tens of thousands of rivets were required and Consolidated's rivet machine produced about a million rivets a week. Due to the stress of landing on water, the hull needed more attention to detail than other planes of this vintage, and the plating had to be watertight. The rivets needed special attention to ensure the tightest fit. They were frozen until required. When pressed in cold, they would warm and expand, and that ensured a tighter than standard fit. The craftsmen at the consolidated manufacturing facility were as much boat builders as they were aircraft builders. The fuselage had to pass a watertight test. Since it wasn't feasible to build a water tank for testing the integrity of the fuselage, rather the fuselage was filled with water and checked by inspecting the outside surface and steer. The centre spar was a unique design for its time as it housed the flight engineer. Normally he would sit behind the pilot, but in this plane he sat above the pilot and was indeed very close to the engines he monitored. The PBY-5 was lauded in December 1939 and had an improved heartland of two Pratt &amp; Whitney double wasp engines rated at 1200 horsepower, compared to the PBY-4's 1050 horsepower. Just four bolts held the engines to the wings. Nearing the final stage of construction, the aircraft was painted. Aircraft designations such as BL, which stands for Light Bomber, reflected the aircraft's use. In the case of the Catalina, its letter designation does not reflect that the craft is a plane. The letters PB stood for patrol boat and the Y was the consolidated description. The PBY's greatest asset was its range and the ability to fly comfortably on just one engine, which further decreased its fuel consumption. In addition to this, it was rugged and had a great ability to survive hard water landings, which was greatly appreciated by the crews that flew her and the downed pilots that were saved by this aircraft. The PBY was in essence an early 1930s design, and although it was used in many theatres of the war, it was showing its age when it was compared to newly designed aircraft. However, it was so good at the roles it was given that even its outdated performance still couldn't hold back the Catalina from going on to become a legend. The Catalina fell short in many areas. For example, its top speed was less than many of the cars of that day, and as a bomber, the wing design couldn't even cope with half the pressures of a newer dive bomber. Interestingly, the legend of the PBY Catalina can be found in another great aircraft. The B-24 Liberator sits in the shadow of the most influential bomber and was manufactured in great numbers. A total of 19,256 planes in several versions were produced by Consolidated Nolte, Ford Company, Douglas Aircraft and North American Aircraft between the years of 1939 and 1945. The success and strength of the B-24 Liberator is due to a wing design sold to Consolidated in 1937 by David R. Davis, who was a near destitute inventor. Reuben H. Fleet, the president of Consolidated, was convinced through wind tunnel tests that this slender wing with sharp camber would provide greater lift. Not only was the B-24 Liberator produced in greater quantities than any other American bomber, it also flew in more theaters of war by the air forces of more countries than any other four-engine bomber. A fully armed and combat-ready B-24 carried a crew of 10 men. Its gross weight when loaded was greater than 60,000 pounds. In its most common form, it had four movable turrets, each with two.50 caliber machine guns and two individual.50s in the waist, making a total of 10. It was powered by four 1,200 horsepower engines and carried 2,750 gallons of fuel. Many B-24 missions were round trips of 1,500 miles and some extended ranges were closer to 2,000 miles. The planes were not pressurized or heated. Crewmen wore oxygen masks on high-altitude missions and were exposed to temperatures that reached minus 30 degrees Fahrenheit and below. The PBY-5 Catalina was not consolidated only seaplane in production during the war. In 1936, the company started production on the much heavier patrol bomber, the PB-2Y. This was a larger plane with four engines and a double-decker fuselage. Unlike the Catalina, this plane was only produced as a flying boat, no amphibious version was available. The PV-2Y never achieved the fame of the Catalina, only small numbers of the PV-2Y were built. It was consolidated model number 29 and production ceased in 1941. This plane never reached the acclaim of the Catalina. Perhaps the Catalina was just the right plane for the right job, even though in most aspects the plane was outdated. This is evident in the laborious task of preparing a Catalina for a mission. More modern craft had better and quicker methods of flight preparation. The Catalina was a hands-on job. Sub-Catalinas operated in many secret operations throughout the war. They flew night missions and were painted black. They became known as Black Cats. Their roles included mine laying, bombing enemy shipping and sea rescues. They most often worked alone. The only cover they had was the black paint that helped camouflage them in the night sky. The black cat crews left at dusk and their flights extended well into the night. At that time there wasn't any such thing as global positioning and night flying gave them little opportunity to navigate by visual means. Their main means of navigation was the stars. The crews mostly flew blind. A crew may be grateful for a moonless night for safety reasons, yet the same night resulted in a much reduced chance to find and destroy an enemy. Although nearly invisible to the eye, the engine noise often alerted the enemy to the presence of the black cats. If they were lucky, the cats would be able to strike first and withdraw in success before the enemy could get into full swing. The Japanese became aware of the black cat's tactics and put together the Japanese night fighters to counterattack. The old cat Alina was very susceptible as its age was a very real barrier to any performance fly. However, with black paint and the ability to land on water, the cats often dived and skimmed the ocean in a cat and mouse game of detection. The antiques of the black cats has only recently come to light as the veil of secrecy is lifting. They were named Black Cats, but in their black paint they could just as easily have been called Panthers. The Catalina was a success in both battle actions and commercial applications. In fact, after the war, many went on to continue in service for many years. It was not in any way an outstanding performance craft, but it was outstanding in simplicity, ruggedness, reliability, ease of service and long range. ABY was just a perfect plane for the roles it was given. Seem the plane was designed around these roles. However the irony is, the plane was designed well before its wartime missions were called for. The P-51 Mustang, the most dominant escort fighter of World War II. It helped blaze a trail from England all the way to Berlin for America's bomber force. Of course the Mustang was a revelation, it was a war winner. Its creation was sparked by a mixture of genius and chance. The Mustang and its two-stage, two-speed supercharged Merlin engine were the end result of years of technological development. From World War I to World War II, each generation of aircraft went ever higher and faster. But the Mustang's marriage with the Merlin might never have happened. National pride delayed the coupling of these two great innovations. But a new deadly German adversary changed everything. The Focke-Wulf 190, this was really a top-notch fighter aircraft. With the FW 190 terrorizing the skies of Europe, the British and American forces swallowed their pride and joined together to create the ultimate fighting machine. December 17, 1903. The Wright Brothers aircraft, the Wright 1, successfully takes off, initiating the dawn of aviation. Man had already taken to the skies with gliders and balloons, but this was the first time that an engine had propelled him into the air. The Wright 1's engine was a crude design by today's standards and put out 12 horsepower only. It was an inline engine, meaning that its cylinders, four in total, were mounted in a straight line, a layout that would inspire some of the most advanced piston-engined aircraft ever created. Though a simple design, the Wright engine was innovative. It was the first engine to make use of a lightweight cast aluminum crankcase. Every pound counted. With a heavier engine, the Wrights may not have made history that winter's day in North Carolina. Aircraft weight and power would continue to be important to the evolution of flight. World War I was approaching, and the newly formed air forces of the world needed reliable engines with enough power to sustain flight during operations. From France would come a new type of power plant to take the fight into the air, the rotary engine. Rotary engines operated differently than the inline ones used by the Wright brothers. The cylinders were arranged in a radial pattern rather than a line. When the engine was fired up, the crank shaft remained stationary while the crank case and cylinders rotated around it. A rotary engine had one giant advantage over the inlines of the era. It was much lighter and thus gave a pilot better performance during combat or while trying to evade an enemy. However, the rotary engine was not without its shortcomings. It had poor fuel economy as it was often run on full throttle. It also provided an unpleasant ride. Castor oil was mixed with the fuel mixture for lubrication, with the side effect of heavy fumes, smoke, and an oil shower for pilots. Turns with a rotary-powered aircraft proved treacherous. As the whole engine rotated, it produced a gyroscopic effect. A turn to the right, at full power and low level, could end with the death of a pilot. Rotary-powered aircraft remained part of Air Force inventories till war's end, but they were gradually supplanted by the inline engine. Inlines based on the same principles as the one found in the original Wright plane kept improving in terms of power and performance. Between the wars and across the Atlantic, a new type of aircraft engine would emerge to dominate American aviation. The U.S. Navy was looking for aircraft to populate its fledgling aircraft carriers. Space on board was extremely limited, but aircraft with inline engines often had lengthy noses. Their engines, built with rows of cylinders, took up too much space on cramped carriers. Rotary engines, though more compact, had too many other weaknesses to be serious contenders for the role. There was, however, a third type of engine. Before the war, there had been limited experimentation with radial engines. At first glance, these appeared to be just like rotary engines. It's only when they are fired up that the difference becomes clear. In a rotary engine, the crankcase and cylinders rotate around the crankshaft. But with a radial engine, the crankshaft rotates while the engine block is static. Radials often weren't as powerful as inline engines, but they were less complicated. They were cooled by air rushing over the engine rather than through a liquid cooling system. This made radios less vulnerable to battle damage, which might rupture the coolant lines. Navy pilots who might have to travel long distances over the ocean to get to a target, needed an engine that would be sure to get them home under any circumstance. Most importantly for the Navy, radials were smaller than inline engines, so a greater number of aircraft equipped with them could be stored on board their carriers. The Wright Aeronautical Corporation, a successor to the original Wright Brothers Company, used their aviation expertise to create the first reliable radial engine for the Navy, the J-5 Whirlwind. The J-5 was put on display for the entire world to see when Charles Lindbergh crossed the Atlantic in his Spirit of St. Louis in 1927. His flight solidified the reputation of the J-5 radial as a power plant. The budding airlines of the world were looking for engines to power their airliners and to bring their passengers across continents and eventually across the globe safely. Reliable radial engines seemed to be the ideal choice. Radials would power many of the principal airliners in the history of civil aviation Trimotor, to the Boeing 247, to the Lockheed Model 10 Electra. Both the U.S. Navy and U.S. Army Air Corps would rely heavily on radial engines as they built up their inventories of fighters and other aircraft. In the 1930s, the U.S. had just one inline engine in development, the Allison V-1710, An engine that would one day power some of America's great fighters. At the time, relying on radios seemed a prudent decision. But in the years to come, and in the battles ahead, it will leave the U.S. playing catch-up with their allies and enemies in Europe. In Europe in the 1930s, air forces and aircraft manufacturers were looking for speed above all else as they designed the next generation of fighters. Using streamlined designs and powerful V-12 inline engines, they pushed their aircraft to speeds over 350 miles per hour. Their inline engines were not only more powerful, they also helped to create more aerodynamic airframes. Their elongated shapes allowed for more streamlined designs as compared with radials. Inline engines may have been more vulnerable to attack due to their complex liquid cooling systems, but no matter how durable a radial engine is, speed kills in a dogfight. Inline engines were built to provide just that. It was from this European obsession with speed that some of the legendary fighters of World War II revolved, including the Supermarine Spitfire, the Hawker Hurricane, and the Messerschmitt Bf 109. Beneath their elegant frames, heard ever more powerful inline engines from Rolls-Royce and Daimler-Benz respectively. In the middle of 1940, the pilots of the RAF tested their mettle and the endurance of their fighting machines in some of the most spectacular air battles of World War II. Vice-Fuhrer Goring had promised to destroy the RAF and thus facilitate the invasion of Britain. Goring had at his disposal an armada of medium bombers, protected by a deadly fighter force. The result of the Battle of Britain during those few vital months of 1940 is well known. There was a heavy toll on fighters and pilots on both sides. British and German engineers tried to squeeze every ounce of power from their engines. Any tiny advantage could be the difference between life and death. With Britain and her industry under direct attack, she looked to her old colony more than ever to provide her with desperately needed aircraft. Even before the Battle of Britain, the British Purchasing Commission had already been shopping for additional aircraft. The US's initial offer of fighters was not well suited for the high altitude dogfights taking place over Europe. This was partially due to the American engines available. The US had concentrated on radial engine production instead of inline engines like the ones so popular in European fighters. They did have the Allison engine, the V-1710. Like the British Rolls-Royce Merlin, it was a 12-cylinder inline engine, but it had a complex turbocharger, often difficult to fit into an aircraft. To boost power in the thin air at high altitudes, the Allison engine used the heat of its exhaust to power a turbine and thereby increase the airflow and power. One American aircraft, the Lockheed P-38, had the extra space needed to house the turbocharger. It was a big twin-engined aircraft to begin with, and had space in its tail booms for the extra equipment. But given the size of the P-39 Era Cobra and the Curtis P-40 Warhawk. In both cases, their manufacturers failed to include Allison's turbocharger. The P-39 had an innovative layout, with its engine situated mid-fuselage, behind the pilot. It was designed to house both the Allison engine and the turbocharger. However, a scoop built into the left side of the fuselage to cool the turbocharger was deemed too aerodynamically expensive. Both the scoop and the turbocharger were eliminated from the production design. This change crippled the AeroCover's ability to fight at high altitudes. In the case of the P-40 Warhawk, a rugged, single-engine airplane, the turbocharger was excluded from the design from the get-go. This limited its optimal altitude to just 15,000 feet and thus relegated the aircraft to ground attack work. The British Purchasing Commission was still interested in the Warhawk, even with its limitations. They saw it as more of an army support aircraft. However, the Curtis factory was running at capacity and could not fulfill the order. With no suitable aircraft readily available for purchase, the Brits would turn to North American aircraft. The British Purchasing Commission proposed that North American build the Warhawk under license from Curtis. But NAA President Dutch Kindelberger had a bolder plan. He guaranteed that he could create an even better airplane using the same Allison engine in less time than it would take for him to retool for Warhawk production. The Brits said yes, and the end result was an airplane that may well have changed the outcome of the Second World War in Europe, Germany was looking for an aircraft to augment the Bf 109. In the Battle of Britain, the Bf 109 and Spitfire were closely matched. But the Bf 109 lacked the range to be highly effective in its escort role over Britain in the summer of 1940. The Luftwaffe had a twin-engined escort, the Bf 110. It had the range to be an excellent escort, but it lacked the maneuverability to defend itself or its charge in a dogfight. It also used two Daimler-Benz 605 engines, making it an expensive sitting duck for British interceptors. Looking for a quick solution to their escort dilemma, the Luftwaffe even considered having the 110's tow 109s into battle to conserve fuel. But in the long run, using two aircraft to perform the role of a single fighter was an even more wasteful solution. What the Luftwaffe needed was a dedicated single-engine aircraft to fill in for the Bf 109 on longer range missions. And ideally something to give them a decided advantage over the British fighters of the time. However, the Luftwaffe wanted to have its cake and eat it too. They wanted a new fighter but they didn't want to sacrifice any of the precious 605 engines meant for the Bf 109. To the consternation of the Luftwaffe, most of the new submissions for fighter designs from German industry were to be built around this very same engine. To solve Germany's escort woes, one man, Kurt Tank, Focke-Wulf's legendary designer and test pilot, did what was almost unthinkable at the time. Since the start of the war, British and German designers had relied upon powerful 12-cylinder inline engines to power their fighters. Tank dared to build Germany's next fighter around a bomber's radio engine. The air-cooled BMW 801 radio engine had plenty of power and had proven reliable in the Ju 88 and Do 217. But radials in a fighter were a rare sight in Europe. It was difficult to build this aerodynamic fuselage to house them in as when constructing one for a slender inline engine. Though an unconventional design track, Hank saw two reasons for encouragement. Firstly, the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics in the U.S. had already done research on improving airflow around radial engines. Over time, they had developed the NACA cowl, which at least helped to reduce drag. This was a simple ring which fitted snugly around the cylinders of a radial engine. It not only made the engine more aerodynamic, it also improved cooling. Secondly, Tank observed that the U.S. and Japanese navies were employing several modern carrier aircraft, all with radial engines. aircraft like the F4F Hellcat and the Japanese A6M Zero. The lightweight Zero had been almost unstoppable in the early part of the Pacific War. Tonk had continued to explore ways of improving his new radial-engined aircraft and reducing the drag effect, although some say his greatest task was selling the radial idea to the Ministry. If that was the case, the bureaucrats must have been quickly won over by Kurt Tonk's first prototypes. Given the designation the Focke-Wulf 190, and unofficially known as the Butcher Bird, the Luftwaffe's latest fighter was rushed into production. Fortunately for the Allies, the Fw 190 arrived after the close of the battle of Rivi. In the summer of 1941, five Mark V Spitfires flying over the south coast spotted several radial engine fighters in German markets. At first glance, they were mistaken for US-built Republic Lancers. It was a deadly case of mistaken identity. The aircraft were, in reality, early model Fw 190s. The Spitfire pilots who survived the ensuing battle lived to tell just how quickly their comrades had been lost. But Britain's greatest loss that day was not pilots or planes. The battle marked the day Britain lost air superiority to the Luftwaffe. The RAF had to do something, and fast. All eyes looked to Rolls-Royce, manufacturer of the Merlin engine, the power plant of the Spitfire, Hurricane, and so many of Britain's great planes. Although the company had the next generation engine, the 12-cylinder Griffin in development, it was well over a year away, more than enough time for Britain to lose the war. Earlier, there had been some thought given to modifying a few Merlin engines for experimental high-altitude work to be executed by a Wellington bomber. It was little more than an idea at the time, but in Britain's hour of desperate need, Rolls-Royce engineers worked night and day to test the concept. Merlin engines were already supercharged. An air compressor mechanically attached to the rotating camshaft increased the airflow to the engine, allowing it to burn more fuel and to boost performance. Rolls-Royce engineers had theorized that adding a second supercharger could give the engine even more punch during high-altitude work. Might a two-stage supercharger help the RAF air supremacy. The end result of the Rolls-Royce experiments was breathtaking. It was almost as if the two-stage, two-speed Merlin was an entirely different engine, when in fact it was just a modification. When the double supercharged aircraft, dubbed the Spitfire Mark 9, finally arrived in June of 1942, the RAF had a rare opportunity to test it directly against a captured FW 190. The test results were far different than the day a group of unlucky RAF pilots ran into a flock of butcher birds. The two aircraft were virtually equal in terms of performance. Captain Eric Brown, who had flown a captured FW 190, had a chance to test the new Spitfire 9 against the German aircraft in live combat. I'd flown the 190 quite a bit, so I wasn't too frightened. I reckon I knew what that aircraft could do, and I knew what my Spit could do, so I thought, well, I can handle this guy. Hoping he was somebody just out of training school, but no, I picked somebody who really knew what he was up to. And we had, I would say, a toing and froing over France, but neither could get a draw-beater in the other. We finally realized, both of us, we were out of fuel, we waggled our wings at each other and departed. And I realized this was really a top-notch fighter aircraft. The RAF had leveled the playing field with the Luftwaffe, at least for the time being. But what the RAF really needed was an aircraft to give them the upper hand. The new Merlin's greatest contribution to the war was still to come, when it was mated with an extraordinary aircraft of American design. Back in the U.S., North American Aircraft had continued to work on a Warhawk substitute, which met the specifications laid out by the British Purchasing Commission. They had specified that the airplane would be powered by an Allison engine, that it cost less than $40,000, and that it be armed with four.303-inch machine guns. North American answered with the P-51 Mustang. It featured an advanced laminar flow wing for good aerodynamic efficiency and a wide gate undercarriage for safer landing. Pleasing to the eye and to fly, although mainly at lower altitudes, the new Arrival quickly gained respect from pilots and ground crews alike. There were some concerns about how the Mustang would fare should it be forced to ditch while crossing the channel. During a water landing, its air scoop, located beneath the fuselage, might flood the aircraft or cause it to overturn. Water tank tests at Saunders Row were initiated to perfect the techniques for ditching the aircraft. Around the same time that the RAF was hitting the Spitfire Mark IX ready for combat, and the FW190 was dominating the skies. Rolls Royce test pilot Ronald Hawker was tasked with the mission of evaluating all aircraft powered by non-Rolls Royce engines. He was thoroughly impressed with the P-51A, save for its poor performance at high altitude. Like the P-40 Warhawk, it had an Allison engine and no turbocharger. Hawker pondered how the aircraft might perform with the new Merlin engine. The results on paper were phenomenal. According to Rolls-Royce's calculations, with a Merlin power plant, the Mustang would not only outclass any American aircraft, but even new Spitfires using the same engine. Oddly, Hawker had to push for the mating of the Merlin 61 and the Mustang, even though the double supercharged P-51 would have outclassed the FW190 as well. Hocker finally arranged for the marriage of the two great inventions, and test trials confirmed his hunch. The Mustang was a war winner. The main challenge was to produce enough aircraft and engines to reclaim the skies of Europe. North American would tweak the Mustang design to accommodate the Merlin 61 engine. It was a much more powerful engine so the original P-51A airframe had to be reinforced. As well, the three-bladed prop was exchanged for one with four blades. The addition of plumbing for drop tanks might have seemed a small change, but it would have a great impact on the air battles to come. Packard took up manufacture of the Merlin 61 engines in the U.S. They were designated the V 1650s. Packard had arranged a licensing agreement with Rolls-Royce earlier in the war. Ford was originally slated to build American-made Merlins and seemed a perfect choice due to the company's industrial might, but Henry Ford was adamant that his company build defensive weapons only. North American's double supercharged aircraft, the P-51B and P-51C, first took flight in the spring and summer of 1943. Air Vice Marshal Paddy Harbison recalls when the Mustangs first arrived at his Spitfire squadron. Of course the Mustang was a revelation. It was a much more comfortable airplane than the Spitfire was. And I have heard people talk about the relative merits of both. They were both war winners. The Spitfire was an interceptor. It could out-turn a Mustang and it could out-climb it, but it didn't have the legs a Mustang had. And of course, if you can't get to where the fight is, you're not too effective. As P-51 started to arrive in Europe, the war was changing, and the Mustang was the perfect aircraft for the time. The U.S. was taking the war to Germany. They were bombing the German war industry out of business. The only problem was their bombers were being shredded by speedy German interceptors. The U.S. had hinged their hopes on the ability of their bombers to defend themselves by maintaining a tight box formation. When this strategy failed, they were in dire need of an escort fighter. The P-38 Lightning was simply not agile enough to take on the role. Then there was the P-47 Thunderbolt. It was an awesome radial engine fighter, more than capable of taking care of itself in battle. But it had two major flaws. It was expensive and it lacked the range to take the bombers all the way to Berlin and back. The P-51Bs and Cs arrived just in time. They had been designed to carry drop tanks and with the addition of a fuel tank behind the pilots, they had more than a match for Germany's Fw. 190 and Me 109. Slowly, American bombers closed in around Berlin. Suddenly, the Germans found themselves playing catch-up. Kurt Ponck's Fw. 190 with a radial engine found it difficult at higher altitudes where the bombers roamed. Ponck swapped its radial engine for an inline. The long-nosed aircraft was nicknamed the Dora. The Focke-Wulf Dora, the later Dora, was a magnificent fighter with an engine change. Not really any structural changes other than those to accommodate the engine. But what it meant was here was an airplane that could keep up with the hunt as the years of the war progressed. So from 1942 right up to the end of the war, the Focke-Wulf 190 was in the top grade of fighter or fighter-buff. The P-51 Mustang also continued to evolve as mechanics and engineers incorporated changes based on the feedback of pilots who had tested the plane in battle. Its canopy went through several permutations. The British swapped the original one for a sliding Malcom hood, similar to a Spitfire's for improved visibility. The P-51D, the definitive version of the Mustang, had a bubble canopy, which offered 360 degrees of clear view. North American also upgraded the D's firepower. It had six.50 caliber machine guns compared to four in earlier models, and it had solved the problem of gun jamming during hard turns. The fuel tank situated behind the pilot may have increased range, but it created other issues. The plane had poor directional stability when the tank was full. To counter this problem, engineers added a small dorsal fin in the D model. These and other improvements would help the Mustang blaze a path to Berlin for America's bombers. Reichsmarshal Hermann Gorf, commander of the Luftwaffe, was quoted as saying, When I saw Mustangs over Berlin, I knew the jig was up. When the European war had come to a close, the battle still raged in the Pacific. The Mustang was the best escort available, but even with its incredible range, it could not accompany an aircraft like the B-29 Superfortress on extended bombing missions over Japan. The expanses of ocean were too large. The engineers at North American struggled with the problem of stretching the Mustang's range. Their solution was a Zwilling or twin Mustang. By fusing two Mustangs together, they hoped to dramatically increase the range of the Mustang while retaining its excellent dogfighting abilities. The new Mustang, the F-82, had an incredible range, 2,000 miles. Though the prototypes were powered by Packard-built Merlin engines, the U.S. Army Air Corps was adamant that the production version be totally American-made. Unfortunately for the F-82, without Merlin engines, it was not the same aircraft. When fitted with the Allison V-17-10-100, its speed dropped and high-altitude performance suffered. It was one of the few cases of a prototype outperforming the production model of an aircraft. By the time the F-82 was ready, Japan had surrendered and the war was over. After the war, the P-51 continued to serve, while other piston engine fighters of the jet age, there was still a place for the Mustang in a variety of roles. Colonel Ray O. Roberts flew the Mustang during its second life. At that time I was flying what they called the F-6, which is a P-51 with cameras. Also had guns and you could have the bombing and gunnery capability. And we participated in a Coastal Settlement Mapping Program. facilities mapping program. We mapped, revised all the Japanese maps, photographed, did aerial photography in Japan and Korea. When the Korean War arrived, Mustangs, which had been mothballed for long-term storage, were suddenly being shipped across the Pacific on carriers. Unable to compete with the next generation of jet fighters for the dogfighter role, Mustangs returned to where they started. In Korea, Mustangs made excellent ground attack aircraft. They didn't have the speed of jets, but they had the endurance to make it from Japan to Korea on bombing runs. In Korea, the F-82 also had an opportunity to taste strike, escort and night fighter missions. The marriage of the P-51 Mustang and the Merlin 61 engine produced incredible results. It provided the Allies with an effective escort to pound the last nails into Germany's coffin. Perhaps the most amazing thing about the P-51's stellar career is that it may never have happened. If the Merlin and Mustang had never been mated at the suggestion of Hawker at Rolls-Royce, the P-51 might have had a humdrum career as a reliable ground attack aircraft, rather than an elite dogfighter. It arrived at the right time, and the right place in history, just when the Allies needed The P-51 was the end result of years of aircraft and engine development. Though jet-powered aircraft would supplant it, the art of aeronautics, began with the dreamers, inventors and daredevils who dared to defy gravity. The journey of aviation was nurtured by pioneers like the Wright brothers, whose first flight marked a historic milestone. The role of aircrafts in world wars was groundbreaking, dramatically changing warfare strategies. This initiated a technological evolution in aviation, transforming the simplistic wings of a biplane into the thunderous roar of jet engines. Let's journey through the ages of aviation. Behind every great aircraft there were great minds. These visionaries, like Sir Frank Whittle, the innovator of the turbojet engine, redefined air travel. Then there's Skunk Works' Kelly Johnson, the genius behind the SR-71 Blackbird. His designs combined speed, stealth and power, crafting machines that dominated the heavens. The contributions of these pioneers have left an indelible mark on the canvas of aviation, shaping the course of history and inspiring generations of engineers and aviators. Each epoch in aviation history gave birth to extraordinary aircrafts, each with their own unique features and roles. The Lockheed SR-71 Blackbird was a marvel of speed and stealth. The F-105 Thunderchief, a supersonic fighter bomber, was vital in the Vietnam War. The P-51 Mustang, a long-range fighter, was critical in World War II. The P-47 Thunderbolt, a heavyweight fighter, was used extensively in the same war. The A-10 Thunderbolt II, the Warthog, is a close air support icon. The Messerschmitt Me 262 marked a leap forward in aviation technology. Each of these game-changers were instrumental in their eras, and their legacies still resonate today. Beyond the game-changers, there are those that have transcended their practical roles to become icons. The Concorde was not just an aircraft, it was a supersonic symbol of luxury and speed. The B-52 Stratofortress, a strategic bomber, is an icon of power and resilience. These magnificent machines and others like them have become much more than just aircrafts. They are enduring icons that encapsulate the audacious spirit, the relentless innovation and the boundless ambition that define the world of aviation. For more amazing aerial footage and to join us in this incredible journey, check out the Dronescapes YouTube channel. If you enjoyed this video, please remember to like and subscribe. And as always, thank you for watching. So, So, you