The Philistines stand out among the neighbors and from other Canaanites, though the differences presence in many familiar stories -- especially The Philistines are often portrayed as Philistine characters like king Abimelech, king significant roles in the biblical narrative. are a fascinating topic in their own right. has seen recent breakthroughs thanks to years were one of the enigmatic Sea Peoples of the on one of history's darkest periods. of the Bible, we arrive at some fascinating and Israel and biblical literature. It's even several Israelite tribes originated as Sea Peoples stay tuned for an in-depth look at the The world ended in the mid-12th century BCE--or, people living around the Eastern Mediterranean. droughts, rebellions, migrations, and a series turmoil and upheaval. Great cities were destroyed for reasons we still can't identify. new nations were born. In the classical Greek civilization developed. In the Lydian and Phrygian kingdoms were established, formerly ruled by the Mitanni empire. by Egypt fell apart, and Egypt withdrew including Hazor, Megiddo, Lachish, Ekron, and over the following decades, some cities were such as Tel Qasile. Archaeology shows that Many of these early Iron Age cities, especially material culture, including distinct pottery and were migrants from a distant land. Who were arrival affect the indigenous Canaanites? In the year 1207, a few decades before the Egyptians under Pharaoh Merneptah mercenaries from across the sea. The Great and names some of these mercenaries: and the Shekelesh. As a side note, Merneptah known mention of a tribe called "Israel" Forty years later, around the year 1177, territory. Some came by sea, while others came Ramses III in Canaan. A famous inscription on records that these marauders had already sacked "No land could stand before their arms," wrote Tjekker, Shekelesh, Danuna, and Weshesh, lands as far as the circuit of the earth, The Peleset were none other than the Philistines, mercenaries or pirates -- the so-called Sea around this time. Their name might have originated meaning 'sailors' or 'mariners'. connected with some of the other Sea Peoples, so I From what we can tell, most of these and western Anatolia. The Lukka were Lycians from The Shekelesh and Sherdana might be related to or as places they colonized. The Danuna might the groups that besieged Troy. The Tjekker might The Peleset, Danuna (Denyen), and Tjekker other. In Egyptian art, they are shown Other depictions of warriors with similar the same time in the Aegean and in Cyprus, The victory of Ramses III over the Sea Peoples Egypt had retreated from Canaan, leaving allies soon filled. Archaeologist Israel this migration took place in phases throughout It appears that several of the Philistines' Canaan. An Egyptian document called the Philistines, Tjekker, and Sherdana and Gaza. Another text called The Report of says that the coastal city of Dor was ruled by the fictional, it is thought to accurately represent The late archaeologist Ephraim Stern, who identified a large portion of northern and Sherdana during the early Iron Another fascinating find is an eleventh- further north depicting a king named Taita whose Philistia. This is the only kingdom actually it became a Syro-Hittite state called earlier 'Palistin'. Dan'el Kahn of the paper that the land battle between Ramses III on the northern frontier of what was Some of our best physical evidence for a to Canaan comes from the sudden appearance of a Helladic IIIC at several sites in southern with the Philistines. This pottery was fine-ware and it featured distinctive dish types, for the most part, identical to the Mycenaean during this time. It was produced locally, Aegean-style cooking hearths, loom weights, and While an earlier generation of scholars assumed violence, the evidence uncovered over the years chose existing unfortified cities with farmland in defend against hostile locals. Archaeologist came as friends rather than foes, allying against the political and economic insecurity Archaeologists generally believe that the the dominant political force in Iron I Canaan. by the campaign of Pharaoh Sheshonq I around the was filled by new polities, such as Aram-Damascus In the 730s and 720s, the Assyrian empire Megiddo, and Samaria as Assyrian provinces. The states and were referred to as Philistia in most important Philistine city-state under a new the people of Ekron switched their allegiance to was imprisoned by king Hezekiah. However, Assyrian to the throne. The Philistine economy flourished Assyria lost its hold over the region in 640, of Egypt, and then of Babylon. When they rebelled invaded their lands, destroying their cities and 604, the original Philistines were no more. During Phoenicians who applied the name Palashtin to the name of the Roman province of Judaea to We have very little evidence regarding the In Aegean cultures, writing was an exclusive and there was little need for it following The few early inscriptions we do find Linear A that remains undeciphered. the Philistines had adopted a Canaanite As for religion, the cultic activity of the different from the Canaanites. Aegean-style several early sites, and a temple inscription - giml - yod - he, a name that scholars believe Based on iconography and other that the Ashdoda figurines are also Figurines aside, bovine shoulder blades or Tjekker cultic sites, though their purpose is shape of a lioness head at several Philistine and with bovine shapes have been found at some particularly Megiddo. Their function the Sea Peoples in general remain a mystery. Phoenician and Judahite influence on Philistine represent Astarte and Judahite pillar figurines becomes common in Philistine personal names Four-horned incense altars of the type used in seventh-century Ekron, though they are found As I mentioned in my video on the Canaanites, to the Bronze Age Collapse or the Egyptian evident in how the Bible views the Philistines, land during the exodus and conquest narratives, requires these events to have taken place This problem is evident in the earlier patriarchal Gerar and encounters Philistine king Abimelech. himself from the locals by pretending his which is a near-exact repeat of an incident is ostensibly set in the Middle Bronze Age, and has long been regarded as anachronistic, something more interesting is going on, for Abimelech -- Ahimilki, to be more precise of Genesis is based on this person. However, was the king of Ashdod. Furthermore, the was only an insignificant village during the early eighth and seventh centuries BCE. Thus, the that reflects the actual situation in a much The story of David during the time of king Saul gives his allegiance to Philistine king Achish Achish grants the city of Ziklag to David and his records that there was, in fact, a famous king He was the son of king Padi, whom we of king Ahimilki. Historians often call him the name Achish apparently comes from the "the Achaean." Even in the seventh century, the The purpose of both stories, scholars the occupation of Ziklag and Gerar by The constant antagonism and warfare between Judah also most likely points to the political enjoyed under the Assyrian system. I hope to Philistines and the houses of David and Saul, as An earlier memory of the Sea Peoples might be of Deborah, which most scholars think is the battle between Israel and the so-called "kings is a non-Semitic name, and the story is set "in 600 Philistines. Some scholars, such as Lukasz believe this story is really What's fascinating is that the tribes listed in tradition. We glimpse an earlier time when there was the southernmost tribe. In the tale, Deborah at Megiddo. The tribes of Ephraim, Benjamin, her call. Dan and Asher, described as seafaring The Egyptian Onomasticon of Amenemope I mentioned Philistines, Tjekker, and Sherdana in Canaan: Semiticist Giovanni Garbini, these names refer think that Issachar is derived from 'Tjekker'. though confusing, suggests that Dor belonged to to Manasseh. Although these connections are possible that at least some Israelites originated The tribe of Dan is an enigma. The strip of actually Philistine territory, and Joshua never unlike the other tribes. The only significant who lives among and interacts with the Philistines the Danites migrating northward to the city Philistine bichrome pottery was produced at Tel the tribe of Dan might have been the Danuna, one The case for Dan as the Danuna was originally in the 1960s, and it was further popularized defense of this view was published by similarities between the Danite migration of as well as the well-known parallels between Korpman turns to the archaeology of Tel and cultic structures as evidence that the city David Ilan, one of the lead excavators of the city contained a mixed Egyptian-Canaanite protection. The result was a hybrid society Tel Dan was probably not incorporated into conquered it from the Arameans around 800 Despite the Bible generally treating the some passages show awareness of their distant Philistines originated from Caphtor, which to Finkelstein, this is inaccurate. Crete did as early Philistia. However, there may be a Pelethites who are depicted as mercenaries in with the Philistines in Ezekiel and Zephaniah, and who were first active in the seventh century BCE. warriors armed with a type of shield called a Here too, then, we see the cultural reality earlier times. As Finkelstein summarizes, "the service of David cannot be accepted nor even as a genuine memory from early from Crete is due to the activity of Greek To summarize, the Philistines and their Sea People collapse of the 12th century. They enjoyed two Iron I before the campaign of Pharaoh Sheshonq, Palestine as vassals of Assyria. It is this later biblical passages that concern the Philistines and with the main exception of the Song of Deborah in depicted as the enemies of Israel, several of of Israel in the Bible might have originated