- I think I just went to the bathroom in my pants, a little bit. Holy cow, look at the size of that snake! Wow, the most dangerous right here folks. Wow, that is a very, very strong snake. Whoa! (animals growling) (dramatic music) - When it comes to creatures that humans are afraid of I always say sharks, spiders and snakes. You're very unlikely to be attacked or bitten by these animals. Yet unfortunate, accidental and in a worse case could put your life on the line. Today we are visiting the located in Deland, Florida. Owned and operated by Carl Barden, this serpentarium is home to dozens of the world's most dangerous snakes. Many of which, are on display This location is also a and it's the dangerous work that is saving human lives. Ohh, venomous reptiles. Good morning, Carl. - Coyote, how you doing? Welcome, thanks for coming. - Mara. - Good morning Coyote, welcome. - Thank you guys so much for having me, this looks like the ultimate This process is incredibly important. You guys are milking these snakes for the creation of antivenom. So, tell us a little and I would classify this as, agruably, the most dangerous job in the - But we never see it that way, we always think it's We do it so frequently, we Typically four or five days a week and probably, most importantly, are produced for the antivenoms, and around the world. - So, let me just repeat that real quick. You said between 50 and 100 snakes a day, have you ever been bitten in - 'Cause accidents do happen. We have about 500,000 and every once in a and the whole thing goes bad. So, I've had 11 snake only nine of those and actual hospital stays, we had two of those bites were dry. But you'll see the work here but it's really rehearsed and it's done very So, we like to think it - So the first snake we're gonna get out, you see there's these now let me ask you this how many snakes, total, do you guys have? - [Carl] We've got about about 500 on the venom line. - Okay, the first snake is the southern copperhead and oh, wow, oh my gosh, beautiful. - Wow! of a southern copperhead. This is about as big as these guys get and she's really a perfect example. That's a big copper. - I was gonna say, I've seen this is without question the Wow! I'm gonna pivot out, Mara, and we are going to begin the Now, where would you rank the venom, as compared to, a cottonmouth or a diamondback, right? This is not, necessarily, a - Typically no, typically are not seen as especially toxic. Copperhead venom is extremely and destroys blood cells And that's a lot of copperhead venom, something like 50 milligrams a little bit more for her and probably takes well of copperhead venom to So it's just not, typically a lethal dose that you get in a bite. She's beautiful if you want to touch her, it's just a spectacular And we always think that color, that pattern is just unmatched. - Amazing, I mean, that you can just hear the power - the plastic cones there. A very decisive bite, a rapid bite and so it's an easy snake, you more people in the eastern - Yep, wow. - All right, we'll bring - Oh, that was fantastic and - [Carl] Ready? - All right, this is it, I'm of a water moccasin, as soon the snake is coming out and that we get a good soft body press so that Carl's not bitten in All right, Carl you set? - I'm set. - [Coyote] Okay, here we go. Bring out the viper. - All right, again, kind Perfect condition and of our local cottonmouth. This guy's a Volusia County snake, she was caught right here as a baby. These guys are really prolific, are common in some of the All right, let's go I'm gonna do the same kind of sweep here, come on in with your press. Good, beautiful, you got her, You can pick her up, you're safe, good. Put your press down, get ahold of that body, excellent Coyote. - [Mara] Make sure you're - Gonna get musked on? Okay. - Really good, really good. Let's see if she'll give us a shot here. There she goes. - [Coyote] Oh yeah, look at that. You can feel the power in the whole body when they bite down like that. - There she goes again. - That's good, perfect. All right, we're gonna you got her, excellent Coyote. - Oh, my hands are shaking. - [Mara] You did it. - I was hands on with when we milked those species have that pressure of having But anytime you're that close I mean, even a slight margin of error can go catastrophically wrong and from the venom yield that you see, that came out of that It's just one bite from - Yeah, it was excellent. - I feel, I feel all that that's one snake and I wasn't even holding the snake by the head. So, I can only imagine you at a time, snake after snake after snake. And if you thought the water now we're gonna bring out Which, arguably is the in the United States, I have a feeling that this Wow, that is a big eastern diamondback. I think I just went to the bathroom in my pants a little bit. Holy cow, look at the size of that snake! Wow! That might be the biggest I have ever seen, wow! Okay so, now one of the key elements. - Don't get any closer - Okay, yeah, I know, I see she's, I'm just gonna go like this and talk over to the side She's in that classic S strike pose, now what makes these snakes so dynamic is that heat sensing pit on So right now, she's looking at that's definitely too big to a prey item, which means I am likely a predator. I'm a threat at this I don't want to get any they strike incredibly fast. And that strike happened so quick, if you're bitten by a snake of this size it has the potential to kill you. - No question about it. The eastern diamondback, eastern diamondback fatal snake bite, there's no question. - Now when it comes to eastern diamondback versus western diamondback, which one do you think You can see she's getting agitated. - I think both of those, on the table, a little bit. I think both of those snakes are probably, equally, dangerous. Eastern diamondback venom is more toxic, but just a little bit. And quantity-wise and are very serious rattlesnakes. So, I think you're probably Everybody good? I'm gonna go ahead and catch him. - Yeah, it's time, here we go - [Mara] You okay, Carl? - [Carl] I gotta shift him, I got him, up. - Take just a step back here. - No pressure yet. - The most dangerous job right here folks. - [Mara] There's a little - [Carl] I'm gonna shift him a little. - [Mara] And coming off. - [Coyote] Carl you're unbelievable, the focus that it takes - Don't change anything, - All right, all right, got the backside. Wow, that is a very, very strong snake. Unbelievable muscular Okay, you guys good? Whoa, that was a serious My goodness! - And that's really what so potentially dangerous. It's that capability when they need to. - Look at those fangs it's got a double set of fangs, which means its getting ready to shed out one of those fangs right? - That's exactly right, - [Mara] You want me to get that fang? - Yep. - Wow, look at that, all right guys. Zoom in as best you can to You can see the hooked nature. If you're bitten by one of these snakes it's going to be a very, very bad day. A bite from this viper if you do not receive antivenom treatment. Okay, it's okay to let go of the tail? - Yep good, I'm gonna go by. - Okay, going back in. - That, that was intense! - Just needing to control on a table like that it is a challenge. Wow, Carl that was impressive It's important to note into the creation of will save lives so the work that Carl and Mara are doing is saving anybody who one of these snakes and is bitten. Carl, I'm gonna give you to say thank you for at the lab here today, to milk snakes. This was unbelievable. I'm sure one venom searing is, what exactly happens into the human body and Stay tuned guys because that I'm Coyote Peterson, be brave, stay wild, we'll see you on the next adventure. All right Carl, I'm gonna so that I don't drop it, that was crazy. Amazing job, oh my gosh, I'm so stoked. Being bitten by an animal is most people can imagine. Yet, no matter how careful you are, accidents can and do happen every year. In the United States, it is and Mara are literally putting to ensure that anyone who is has a fighting chance for survival. If you would like to visit or learn more about their make sure to visit the website. Schedule your chance to Hey Coyote Pack, if you can't wait for the thrilling conclusion, matches up against pit viper right now and see the Make sure to subscribe and so you can follow along with me and the crew on our next wild adventure. (animals growling)