The whole thing started in autumn of the year 2017. That's when Klaus meant Grabner Michael And if I could imagine joining in. I said &quot;yes&quot;, that surely sounds interesting for me. In May 2018 we drove to Kals had a look at the mill, took some and got a picture what it all is about. The beginning of the mill project was simple as that: Because with every World Wood Day there ... sign for the World Wood Day... ... so I said back then: &quot;hm, it would be nice Hence we got the approval for the project. And then we got via Michael Grabner the contact to Kals. There was a deadline which we met for the most part. The goal was... until the World Wood Day (March 2019) We didn't make it entirely... the grinding mechanism wasn't finished, the shaft was there, the water lead was finished. As far everything worked, only actually milling of flour The Open Air Museum Stubing was founded with the main mission to depict rural culture from Lake Neusiedl to Lake Constance One looked to represent types of houses From southeastern Austria's stretched farmsteads in Burgenland to northern Tyrols single roof farms... from four-sided farms alpine hut from because the adjoining farm buildings are exhibited as well. Construction was started with back then we had already all the measurements, Actually there was only one place suitable for the mill which is really ideal and that's And then we checked where the mill race to get the right heights. Then came the pillars made of larch with a diameter of 15-20 centimetres Because of the charring they have a better durability. In Stubing kick off for me personally was in autumn when we got the timber. Before that we calculated the amount of timber. About September, October we checked ... where we'd get it. And then... we got going.... In 2019... in.... January. Yes. End of January we had all the logs here. So we started preparing and hewing. We shifted for ourselves a bit in the sense that we had the logs pre-sawn in a saw mill. The primary steps of hewing are very, very and.. the effect is the same at the end. Whether you pre-cut the logs with a saw or start hewing on the round log. The last step has to be done Then you'll get the same quality. In that sense the logs were cut with a band saw therefore the beams could be sawn in a Which wood species should we take for the We were about four people all the time mostly of the museum workforce. Three people from the Stubing museum and me... Two of those craftsmen are carpenters, Their task is generally to maintain and renovate Admittedly that way of working don't necessarily as a today's carpenter or joiner is not That beam is arranged precisely, The first layer of logs is made of larch. Later spruce was used. Would have been about... ...30 cubic metres... ... about a full truck load of timber was necessary. Then logs are added crosswise, those will It's important to that the used timber was cut We took care to harvest the logs during and towards autumn, it's always better for construction We got that timber directly from the sawmill, it was stored just So we processed it in a fresh condition. Now turn it over and then we'll cut it to length. The founder and first director of the Austrian He led the museum until 2004. In his plans there was always a horizontal Because a &quot;Stockmuhle&quot; is the older form of mills So getting this type of mill was always But because in Austria there are only a few there never was an opportunity to acquire That's why this mill has an exceptional value for us. And... it's important and marvelous that we now have it here. In the museum we have over 100 'roofs'! Those are ranging from small piety columns with with a roof area of 800 square metres. So we have all kinds of sizes and types here. Here the markings are visible where the At first they are cut roughly... whereas it's only recognizable how rifty the log ... that's affecting how easily the wood can be worked on. Here the center of the notch is chopped a bit deeper so that the That's done with a branch axe. You'll need a good aim with the axe, So we'll just chop out a bit more in the middle that's a rule in the construction of log walls... you'll always have to chop a bit deeper in the middle So... that the logs will connect at the Just a little cleanup with the chisel... getting it smooth. The very special thing about the Austrian we have buildings from nine federal states here. Thus we are depicting the whole territory With all the different roof types, alone our roof surface area And furthermore 5,6 kilometres of fencing - in 11 different styles. The thatched roofs consist of three the wooden shingle roofs of five. We maintain and build those by ourselves. That's one of our specialties. Our craftspeople are able to master ...building waterwheels, stonewalls, All those crafts are present in Stubing and we are able to maintain the majority We do that not only because it's &quot;old&quot;. Rather because it's good and That's how we see it. Stubing is a huge reservoir containing traditional knowledge which is not dusty but really, really For me it's very important because 'Those times are long gone, we won't necessarily use those techniques But essentially it's acquired know-how which humans have gathered over decades or even thousands of years. From primitive housebuilding up to the And all that knowledge we once had should not... be buried... in oblivion. Maybe it could be useful again sometime. And... for me personally it is really interesting what is possible solely with one's handcraft. Actually with one's hands, without machines. Like the word says... &quot;hand - craft&quot; that word says it all. Nowadays we practice way more &quot;machinecraft&quot; than handcraft. In our digital era there is a growing number Even if it's 'just' gardening at home... ...holding a watering can and that way Humans are 'shaping beings' who Over thousands of years that shaping And... that's fascinating and important to safeguard as it also defines humankind. To create something by one's own hand. Now comes the rear log which has been prepared already marked, cut and processed... now it's being fixed in place. The mortise is already there... in that the floor boards will be placed later. A few taps... and that's it. And the next one. That's now a spruce log. So first positioning... then marking. Those pegs are placed... in about... an 1 metre or 1,20m distance to each other. The first one is a bit closer to the corner joint, So just a bit outside the joint and The pegs are made of larch wood, One could... also use spruce branches which work well. Or beech wood. There are several options, than the logs. Larch is harder than spruce, In this case there is no seal between the logs. That's because we are building a mill, we'd put moss between the logs. But in that sense it is not a living space just a functional building so its enough when the logs are just put together. Now mortises are chiselled for and left and right of the door frame there At this corner two pillars are joined. On the inner side the door frame, Those vertical pillars build the corner. That's one of the pillars with a groove being That's the outside pillar. Now it's being secured with a cramp. That's the door frame pillar. There the mortise for the door is visible. Those two are... connected. The position for a peg is marked now. Those pillars are pegged together... two times. After marking, we'll lay them down again so we can drill them and afterward Our task is of great importance because we do a lot of educational work. In Austria, although, we are a country which wood as a material has a rather... bad reputation. When someone hears 'wood' a common thought at 'wood isn't really durable, it's a material which is vulnerable'. 'A building material which But that's not true! Our oldest house has been built in 1452. It's completely made of wood. You don't have to paint wood to make you have to process it correctly. So it's really important for us to do in order to enhance the image of wood - as a valuable, not inferior, Log for log is simply added, up to the jetty or platform which will carry the floor for the millstones. That's the first log which overhangs. On the outer side the millstones will be positioned That's gonna be the platform. This reconstructed mill is originally from Kals at the Grossglockner, from the district Grossdorf. The original is surrounded... if I now remember right... by 5 similar mills. Interestingly all placed in a row. One could wonder why there But as... the mill owner told us: In fall all farmers were milling in October. Because when winter arrived with ice That's why everyone had an own mill to prepare themselves with Circle for circle is timbered up. That's once again larch timber that will be the first log on the outside of the platform. That log will carry the flooring with the millstones - the 'bedstone' and the 'runner'. In that height we'll have 3 logs lengthwise. On this one the inner edge of the The logs are placed in position and marked Then measured how deep we'll cut them, that's always half of the log which remains, Because all logs have varying heights. So we mark them and half of Same as in the beginning... joints are chopped a bit concave in the middle. Cleaning up any burrs. The sides are cleaned up a bit so To get a snug fit . That's best done with a slick. 'You have to check if the pegs fit' - 'Yes, they fit' 'Really?' 'Yes!' Those are the pegs as we use them. They will be just tapered a bit. Sharpened a little bit. 8-10 centimetres depth... approximately. They'll keep the log in place between the joints. To always have a nice wall on the outside. There the tenon, which is hewn sloped, When they fit nicely they are hammered together. Pegs inserted. Then it will last forever. I've had the opportunity of having to take the measurements for a roof framework, to draw the elevation design by myself. During my apprenticeship a carpenter had to be able to do that. To plan a roof structure. Only... in that field, things have developed Nowadays as a carpenter you have to be quick, you still need physical strength, but, you get all the needed components So, you are not necessarily in need of the same imaginative visual thinking which was essential in earlier days. In former times you had to be able to already imagine the final construction to know: &quot;ok, this has to look like this and that&quot;. Today that's maybe not the case. Nowadays everything is screwed together and nailed up. I still work with traditional woodworking I've learned those techniques which somehow was also my benefit because here in Stubing those skills Regarding those old techniques, compared to the time of my apprenticeship, today we've even lost knowledge and have made no progress. However, that was always one of our to safeguard that old knowledge of former times. To work with the same tools which they That's how you'll also be able to reproduce things Measuring again. How many centrimetres do we have downwards? Half of the measurement from below Here we have 12 centimetres. That means we'll have to cut 6 centimetres. It's always a different measurement. Because the height of the logs varies. Might be... 18 centimetres, 15, or even just 6 to 7 centimetres. Depending on how big the tree was, as it was always used in a way to get a nice yield. In that sense it might be... 25 on the one end and only As seen here we'll leave some logs a bit longer to use them as scaffolding. We'll cut them later on. 'Very good!' Now it's fixed in the vertical post on that side it's also the doorframe. It's threaded in and then hammered together again. As here it's nicely visible how tenaciously they fit together. That's good. Then we've done everything right. If the fit is too tight the joints will split. That's not good. The small gaps that are still visible here will close together with time and with the load from the roof. I a few years they'll snuggle together so you won't see through the walls. It will be completely tight. 'You know what?' 'I'll need someone helping me with measurement!' Now we are measuring the water lead. Which has to be considered here. So we are checking where the stones Where the waterwheel has to be installed. And where... the water lead has to come down. '46...' '40...' 'That's where I'll come down with the waterwheel.' The steepness of the waterwheel was measured we are constructing it here. We measured the angle to have it the same way here. 'That's the lower part.' 'Wait, nonsense!' 'Here's the beam' 'Up here! I'll end up this high with the blades!' 'I'll be here with the blades!' 'I'll have to end up with the water... over here!' Actually we didn't have to improvise anything - We don't have... the original stones as milling stones. Another mill had been swept away in Kals we got its stones. So we used those, which have But apart from that nothing has been altered. Apart from that it's one-to-one copied from Kals and build up here. Here two beams are visible, lying between the walls, they'll carry the mill stones and 'We're quite even here.' 'They've had a good think about it!' 'Otherwise only one would carry the whole load Yes... We've been to Kals in May 2018. That's when we had the first look two more times. And have had the luck, already at the first visit, with the owner of a neighboring mill to get the mill stones from him. They were laying there, unused. Those are the most difficult components. Everything else is in our own hands. Especially in the right size for such a mill. And now, when the bed stone is lying there we know exactly where the shaft will be. And where the waterwheel will be located. Thereafter we can determine... like now... we determine where we'll come The approximate middle is alig... aligned. 'From this side to the wall, That's on the underneath There we check if everything works out with the positioned stone. And afterwards we also know 'Okay, now we can put that stone back over here.' Now we are ready for the next stone. That's the bed stone, which is already there. And the one, which will be put upon it, rolled over with sticks, that's the 'runner' stone. We've brought them in already as that's easier than afterwards That one is also quite heavy, to spare some muscle power. We are putting some small boards We'll have to lift them several times and adjust them. That way it's easier to grab them. *jokingly* 'Ah, my fingers!' 'A bit towards me.' 'Okay! Fits well anyways!' 'Okay!' 'That fits for now!' 'Now, let's check from underneath - if it suits my imagination.' There we're already together with They'll participate in the project and on it goes! There it's clearly visible in the back the logs are almost tightly closed together with no gap. And at the pillars there is still that means the 'settling right' has been factored in. When the logs have dried up, So here we are tinkering about... ... tinkering about the steepness of How exactly that has to be done. So that we can adjust the pillars and There it's checked if we've still 'It passes here quite closely.' 'There it meets on the other side.' 'About here it will meet.' Here we're adjusting the heights. There we have it already. At the end it's marked already, Then we'll have our slope and And afterwards we can fix the We have about 4 centimetres elevation per distance of two pillar pairs between each other. That distance is 4 metres, 'A bit more... yeah... exactly.' 'A bit more to that side.' 'Now up!' 'Up!' 'Up!' 'Wait! Not that much!' -'57!' 'We can put iron clamps there, and 'To get the pillars a bit tighter together.' *joking around* - 'at least you have good ideas!' - 'why did they let him retire?' The water lead is also made of larch. Those are stakes which have been stored for some years so that we have cured wood, for durability. They are fixed with clamps, The 5 centimetre thick stakes are planed. There's a tongue-in-groove joint, combined with a hemp cord which is not waxed and provides leakproofness. And there it's nailed. These leads, if they are used regularly, yes... for 25 years they should last for sure. These leads are tapered. We'll see that later. Here we are marking the last That's a larch log. So, we've just marked it and that one will be cut in with a chainsaw. So a first rough cut is made to a certain depth and then it's hewn out manually. The trunk has to be hollowed out now. With the chain saw it is... simply... easier. we were a bit under time pressure. so we couldn't work historically accurate. We would have had to hew notches first and split those pieces out. There the chainsaw is simply easier and faster that's why we used it. Regarding quality there's no difference at all because the last step however has Then its worked with a hand plane. So we'll get the same end result. It doesn't matter with what tool There we see the adze in action, first it's And afterwards comes the hand plane... planing the final surface. A bit more planing... to get a smooth surface with The outside edges are planed And somehow it has to appeal not solely to the intended purpose. When you touch the surface you have to feel that it's done. On the outside the bark is cut off. That's also important for durability. The draw knife is ideal for that. And the whole bark is gone. There we've done the rough cut with the chain saw. Those are gonna be the holes which will be put on the tenons Those are the mortises for the pillars. Now we'll cut the tenons on the pillars. Before we've measured the exact heights. The edges are deburred to get a nice fit. And now they are put in place. Larch is way more durable than spruce the first layer of logs on the walls beneath that there is a stone wall and and that's were dampness is most probable, Afterwards, up the wall it's just spruce, which can also however, it has to be able dry out again. With larch it's not such a problem So that's why we use larch on the bottom parts. On the upper parts drying up works better. So for the lead for the pillars, the horizontal logs, the water channel itself, we'll use larch as those parts are Sometimes it's dry, Because the mill isn't permanently and when it's not in operation 'Perfect! Exact slope!' And now the chute is mounted. Also here we have some machines as help. Such a lead weighs a few hundred kilograms so it's simply easier when you have Yes... The collaboration, with the and also the international team, all the people. Yes, at first I thought it would As I master only one language... and that's.. Styrian dialect. But... we came to an understanding also with hand gestures. When something had to be done, 'How many centimetres?' We just pointed there, 'this and that'. And thereby we explained to each other After half an hour we knew we got along Everybody had their task, the joiners with the staircase - Some pictures. It was really interesting. it would be more difficult. But it was just superb teamwork. That has to be fitted in now the lead is connected with the chute. They have to fit properly 'Now lift it just a little bit.' There's also some 'Werch' put in between that is hemp cord. And when that gets wet it That was the final jolt Nailing them together is done with a larch peg That way the chute Then it's cleaned up. Now the lead segments are One lead segment after an other, One segment fits into the other, They are fitted together. That's how they are sealed, they are wedged into each other Wedges are put into the gaps as the supports are cut out a bit wider. That's done on purpose to fit the wedges. Then we can push them really together, force them tight with the wedges to assure they are sealed well. As finishing touch the wedges are to clean them up. So that it appeals to the eye and the lead is done. Now we are really hewing the next beams out of round logs. First we are hewing slits with a branch axe. Here we have... fou... fifteen centimetres. We've hewn them to 15 centimetres first and finally to 14 centimetres with Roughly pre-hewn to 15 Here the rough pre-hewing is done. He is working with his own tools. That's a slightly different method than we use. But the outcome is the same. The cutting edge is important. That's something everyone has to take care of. A sharp edge is the essential thing. We generally use for pre-hewing Afterwards we'll use a band axe for between the the slits, so rough pre-hewing with a band axe. And then with a broad axe accurately hewn the final surface. The next logs are already being delivered. All those have to be hewn. The beam topping off the doorframe The pillars here have a very long shrinkage altogether. On the pillars there has to be that big gap, in height have to be left as gap because the timber is still fresh cut. When it dries up the gap will close and then it fits. That's the 'settling right'. That's not because the carpenters didn't that's meant to be like that. In autumn only half the gap was left. In 2 to 2,5 years that's... closed. As seen the new aides are And already joined carpentering. They have party different tools. But... in the end the outcome is exactly the same. It helps to stand on the beam you'll have some weight on it and it will bounce less, If you stand up there and hammer 3 to 4 times the effect of the hammer. However, you'll still have to aim carefully, Here our international craftsmen, they are joiners, have first built the flooring inside... planed it... and set it up. And he is building the pillars for If you have a close look you'll reckon But he was... working really precisely. On the surface it's also visible that Now we are reaching the roof construction. There the second flooring is visible, That's simply pushed in from the outside. Carpentered in between the logs. The flooring is simply lying between... between the log walls. Therefore the upper logs are only Now we are that far up that we have already the ridge purlin there There the first rafter is already visible. One rafter after the other is mounted. A wooden nail is fixing them. There the nails are being prepared. That's done on location. Those are also made of larch They are a bit longer. It's important with those nails that the hole is drilled with a pointed drill because then the nail bites really into the wood. Because the tip is jammed in You won't be able to pull it out. And now the roof battens are mounted. There's also a wooden nail below To get a suitable surface There's already the second one. Again the supporting surface is hewn then it's mounted turned around. And we're done. And the next one. The roof battens themselves are not fixed, They won't be able to turn anymore as the shingles are going to hold Because the shingles are being nailed. That's common here: when the a topping-out tree is needed. The topping-out ceremony is when the rafters are all mounted, or the roof battens are in place. But... most often a date is found which is ideal. When you are working at a farmers' the time has to be convenient, Because usually afterwards there's You'd also have to see whether or if it's also bearing... 'Saw and axe are standing still, the mill will stay, as god wills.' 'This mill could only arise as craftspeople from all the world 'Therefore I wish, as best I can, stout as a carpenter, with proud sight upwards: Best of luck to the new mill!' 'Cheers!' - 'Cheers!' 'And now, oh glass, you'll have to die - may you bring luck and shards!' ... it always depends on how well you worked - that's how the tree turns out. If it's just blossoming there's only the ribbons on it. If it's bearing there's some cigarettes, some candy for the kids, maybe a cigar, such things... then it's bearing. That's a 'laying shingle' roof. The shingles are manually split. They are split out of a big trunk. Larch wood is used for these, have to be searched. They should have no spiral growth. Because otherwise they You'd need suitable timber for these which needs a bit experience to select the right timber. Then they are split sometimes also mechanically, we did it manually. These shingles are about 2 centimetres thick and 80 centimetres in length. They are mounted in three layers. We've recreated the way it was done in Kals. But otherwise in earlier times these shingles were just laid down, that's why it's called 'laying shingle' roof, they were not nailed down at all. You'd just lay down a rod on top of them, weighted with stones. Every metre you'd have a shingle which would have been mounted On the lower side there was also which would carry the rod with the stones on it. But we are nailing them as that's the situation we found in Kals. Now the turners are challenged. As the mill is called 'Stockmuhle' for a reason: The vertical shaft on which on the lower part and on the upper part the milling stones is called 'Stock'. And now it's gonna be turned. You could bring it also into a that's way more labourious. But... we have here specialists from we said: 'we'll lathe that!' Those two... working on it And... they'll turn it into The log is over 2 metres in length and has a diameter of 35 centimetres. It's also made of larch. It needs special skills now to make that work on the lathe. Without a lathe you'd clamp it and then you'd cut it round with trial and error. Of course that'd be way more work. But it's makeable to get it round. If it'd be a few millimetres off, it wouldn't be that tragic because it won't be turning like It does turn quickly, but not with Therefore minor deviations won't matter. Now we are marking the position There's a certain slant that's necessary. 'The slant like this.' 'And then I'll just have to use 'And the slant is fixed.' 'And to get deeper, we'll use a drill, That has to be circled to We made a Gage so we can use a router a... hand router to pre-cut it a bit that makes it easier. We helped ourselves a bit However, the angle has to be right. It has to be chiselled 8 centimetres deep because those blades need a tight fit. A bit of carving and facing the edges. Those aren't fixed at all. They are tapped in. By getting wet from the water they'll They aren't fixed at all. The fit simply has to be tight Now a hole is drilled on the bottom, The pin is an iron bolt which will be inserted to notch a 'bowl' below. That's the metal pin. 'I'll need a bushing, And on the upper side there's a shaft extension a metal shaft up above where the bedstone and 'runner' stone are mounted. To avoid the wetness causing swelling... on the shaft rings are mounted. They are mounted hot. That ring has to get a certain And not too cold. It should not yield, but to tighten up well. The ring has the right color Then it's good. Because when it turns cherry-red it means the material is When it's between cherry-red Then it's tapped on to the spot it should sit. Then it has to be extinguished with wet rags. And then it will tighten up firmly. 'Now extinguishing!' 'And tapping!' 'Just put it on, also on the lower side.' 'And on the upper side!' 'So that it tightens up nicely, Now wedges are put in if there were any gaps left. Those are called 'fish'. There's an iron used to make a hole. And then fishes are hammered in. 'And now hammer forcefully and don't miss them!' 'Wait, should we turn it? Now it's vital to have and to be quick, as when it That way there's even more pressure The ends are cut off 'Did you hear how the sound changed?' 'That's when you reach the end.' *joking around* 'We'll use split wedges here.' 'Sawn wedges would break off way easier.' 4-5 of those are hammered in. Depending on the growth rate of the shaft. What's necessary... That's the iron where the It has a specific shape so it won't wear out. It's bowl-shaped with a pivot inside. That's where the shaft will be inserted. 'Can we lift it?' - 'Yeah, go ahead!' The shaft is placed on that lever. On that bottom lever there's the bearing for a smooth motion and that lever is lifted Thereby the two stones are adjusted. So you can lift or lower the That lever has a leverage to the inside with a wooden thread for Now a bushing is fitted in through which the iron shaft runs. On that a plate is mounted, 'Hold it a little bit.' 'That's leather.' 'A bit upwards, upwards.' 'Right?' - 'Yeah!' 'Now, try turning!' A pin is mounted there. And now the plate. That's fixed there, secured with a nut. And now the stone is placed that's the 'running' stone. It's mounted movable on there because it has to be able to That distance between both stones Visible inbetween the stones Beneath the iron plate, there's another piece of leather. That leather is a cover. It's avoiding the grain coming down and instead flings it under the stones. That leather is turning with the stones and slings the grain under the stones. Those are specific irons, That way you can lift them easily. If there's a malfunction you'll have Or if there's anything else to repair... Periodically the stone has to be lifted and turned around, then there's which is used for chopping Due to the use during milling that stone will get smoothened. Then one has to sharpen it. That's a hammer with a pointed tip and with that new notches are hewn to generate a certain roughness and enable milling. Now everything has to be set up the stone is not adjusted yet. It has to be simply placed in a way that it is fitting to the lower stone. Small adjustments are made with wedges. It turns already smoothly. When those stones are adjusted, they should have no contact. But also a too big gap isn't good as then the grain won't be ground. If they touch each other To avoid flour getting lost the 'running' stone, the upper one, has to be cased. For the upper stone, which will be bent. It is cut in every few centimetres. The desired diameter determines That's how it's done. Then it's bent. The board is cut until in a distance of about We are using a band saw. In former times they would've done it manually. 'Okay!' 'Let's go outside to the water!' Now the board is hosed on the outside. As wet wood is not as brittle So we'll just wet it, *off-topic explanation* And then it can be bent. We prepared a template around which it's bent. With a rope or a strap the bending is supported. Here a rebate is visible that has to be fitted nicely. Without any buckling and a So one has to tinker a bit. There the rebate will be connected. We are checking the diameter that ring will get a cover. That cover will add to the stability avoiding that ring to open up and preserving its form. The rebate will be fixed with As well as the cover which will ... also fixed with... wooden nails. And now we're already at the flour casing. The inner workings are being installed already. The flour casing itself has been constructed in That's made of arolla pine. That's a typical joiners work, It has a certain shape which was And now we are fitting in the parts, the flour sack. Checking if it fits. That one is... detachable. The mechanism is replaceable 'This one reaches out through 'Yes! That works out!' 'With that you'll regulate the port.' 'A cord will be wound up here.' 'But that... we'll see next time!' Here the pillar is seen on which the hopper will be mounted. The hopper has to be pivoted That's why all those parts And... now they have to be fitted. It's important that the grain will be Although we have the original measurements those aren't that exact you can't tell the detailed 'On the lower or upper edge?' - 'Upper edge, upper edge, here!' The hopper needs a support also So, we just marked that. Another slot is mortised there. That'll support the whole thing. The ring... and cover. That cover fixes the ring in place. Now the... outlet of the hopper is mounted. That outlet can be regulated to, to.. adjust the amount of grain 'Here it goes down like this.' 'Besides, about here, the stick is mounted.' 'Is the middle you calculated correct?' - 'Here, you've to end up here, 'Good!' Now the flour casing is installed. It has to be constructed in such That's the slide for the flour. It's really important that the angle is right here, that it's steep enough, otherwise A recess is needed there, an outlet for the flour. The flour will be between the stones, when it's fine enough and until it reaches that outlet. There's also a small recess in the stone The slide will be connected there. It has to be fitted precisely and fixed to the casing. Then the flour can run through it. There's a small monitoring opening. Then the flour runs through 'There's that prong which is connected here to adjust the height.' That slipcase regulates how quickly the flour And how tense the sack 'Would you hand me one of the side boards?' 'That's the matching nail for it.' 'Push it out first.' Now the small slide is mounted where the coarse grain will be and will be milled one more time. Assembly is mainly done with wooden nails 'You can push it in there. Now the riddling system is being assembled. That's made of ash wood. The flour casing itself For the mechanism to sieve all the flour ash is used. That's because ash is flexible, very good properties for Here it's visible that the riddling function 'Very good!' 'Does it fit?' 'Yes!' The second rod is leading outside To generate a motion at all, So there a hole has to be cut through the log wall. That mechanism has a longitudinal To get a riddling system at all on the shaft outside blocks have to be mounted. To generate inside... on the flour casing, all the vibration, to get the riddling mechanism working we have to translate the actuation Where we mount these a boarding has been mounted to protect the log walls, as we have Those are larch boards Also here we need a spring, as well made of ash. Similar to the other mechanism, main species for these is ash. For a spring in any case. As a spring has to be... very resilient. Elastic. Ash has the ideal properties for such things. 'That fits!' Here the outside sieve That's where the coarse grain is 'Very nice!' What's visible here, but actually it isn't really one. With that the spring is tensioned to get a certain riddling motion. That's being connected and a string and that gearwheel is being locked. That's how it's tensioned and That way the strength of the riddling Now the sack is hooked in. 'It's threaded through this ring then mounted here.' 'Yes, hook it in to the fork!' 'In the front there are two nails.' 'Little nails and a loop... and here simply...' 'Turning it around once.' 'And now the sack is secured.' 'Now you can tension it as you wish a little bit up, or a little bit down.' The fine flour falls through the sack and the where it is sieved one more time. The slope of the sack is adjusted with its height. Which also regulates how fast the flour is ... and how well it should be sieved. So inside, the fork,... ... to generate a shaking effect. 'See?' 'That's the counterpressure.' Now the bottom of the hopper is being installed. In the back there are leather hinges The tensed bottom can be lifted and lowered precisely to regulate the outflow of the grain... Now the bottom is being tensioned. It has to be checked that the grain outlet Otherwise the edge has to be trimmed. To ensure a constant grain flow to the stones That's why that stick is necessary... That stick reaches in between the moving... ... which is equipped with an oval iron ring So the stick needs some back pull as well What's visible here is an additional hatch when during milling... the water-flow isn't needed momentarily then there this closing mechanism for the water supply. 'Good, we'll cut it like this.' - 'Got it!! That's all we need! That cross board is necessary to and to assure there is no water left in the lead so that the waterwheel comes to a standstill. The whole mechanism is adjustable from the inside and spring-loaded with a wooden tongue to guarantee a tight obstruction of the water flow. When you pull from the inside you have to jam the wooden rod When the clamping in the inside is removed the hatch will close automatically and the water flow is stopped. 'Should I turn the shaft?' 'It looks like this now: ... Every mill needs name!' 'wait a second' 'Every mill needs a name and I had a thought about that.' 'You can't name a mill after its builder, 'And although... you aren't the owner, you made it possible that something like this was brought to Stubing.' 'So, I came up with an idea... the mill needs a name... and there's nothing more suitable than this!' 'And, additionally, this is the key so you can get into your mill!' 'Now, your task is to nail up the board and unlock the mill!' - 'Thank you!' 'I'm saying thank you that I was allowed to do this job, 'Who builds nowadays a mill?' 'That opportunity was on account of you.' - 'Thank you, that you did it!' 'That's why the credit belongs to you and the mill has gotten a name.' - 'Thank you!' 'So we'll just have to mount this.' 'Back there is a hammer.' 'I think it looks good like this.' 'Very good' 'And now... we'll need to unlock it to put the mill in motion!' 'You'll have to push on the upper side.' 'See!' 'It works!' 'Rene, could you start the water? Please!' 'Now we'll start it!' The waterwheel in this case is not the usual type This one works in a completely We have a upright, vertical axle A vertical shaft on which the blades are mounted. One of the challenges was to get the mill race, the channel which is straight and very steep and has to carry enough water, aligned with the blades of the waterwheel with the right angle so that we have a good power and momentum. That's the advantage over the vertical A cogwheel isn't necessary - not at all. The millstone is directly mounted There is the bed stone and the runner - as the name implies: the runner, the upper, turning stone There is no other joint in between. The gap between both stones is threaded rod. The whole mechanism is resting on a beam which can be lifted (with the rod). So there we had to tinker a little to get it right. But... after a few days we had a test run. And it worked nicely. Maybe it's not directly connected solely to this building... but what's beautiful is the experience when people work together on one project,... work together with manual labour and actually without,... without... So: there is a difference if 3 are side by side cutting down trees with Or if people work together with actual hand work and have to communicate. And... have to figure out how to with sticking together as there maybe is no crane, A self-seeker won't help in that case... 'I won't lift that' isn't an option, And that's something which is getting in many professions. In many jobs there is also a machine running, But... in this project the teamwork was really fascinating! Although we had the challenge having a massive language barrier. But nonetheless it worked out flawlessly. People got a long immediately. And understood what it all is about. I must say, that's something I personally I'm a carpenter by profession. And... I've always greatly valued of timber joints,... generally hand work with tools ...or broadaxes - I've always been And that's also how I ended up working The mill for now... Yes... not too &quot;dramatic&quot;, but still a challenge... as it is with every project. I was able to implement my skills Which was... ... yes... just great!