If you know these 15 words, your English is A binomial pair is 2 words that are connected Now a binomial pair is used as a fixed So let's see if you know these 15 binomial pairs. Welcome back to JForrest English. Of course, I'm Jennifer. Now let's get started. You are going to learn these You'll see a sentence on the screen with a blank. You need to complete the Are you ready? Question one. Thankfully, this speech wasn't long. It was short and it was short and sweet. Did you get this one? Short and sweet? Notice that pronunciation. We take that and but we just pronounce Short and sweet. So you pronounce it like one word. This means concise, so Note that this binomial pair is used The meeting was short and sweet, or someone might say before a Let's keep this short and sweet. Don't worry about taking notes because I You can find the link in the description. Now let's listen to some real world examples. So that's that's it. Short and sweet for me. Keep it. Short and sweet. OK, I'm going to make this short congratulations on the 20th anniversary of Question Two. She put her and soul into writing her first book. The binomial pair is heart and soul. Again, notice that pronunciation. Heart and heart and soul. This is wonderful dedication, passion or energy. I hope my students, you see that I You could say I put my heart Do you put your heart and soul into it? If you do, put, that's right, put that's Now let's listen to some real world examples. I think it's partly because of and he put his heart and soul into it Lussier had poured his heart. And soul into that collection question three call Safe and sound. This means unharmed and in good condition. You might say despite the accident, You can also use this to mean to be cautious, Just to be cautious, just to be safe and sound. Let's double check the figures Now let's listen to some real world examples. If you don't want them in the story, then just. Keep them at home. Safe and sound. And then move on. To something worthy of telling. Now all my dad is safe and sound. We keep them safe and sound. Question 4. She enjoys the and bustle The hustle and bustle. Notice that T is silent. Hustle and bustle, Hustle and bustle. This means busy, noisy, or chaotic You could say there was so much hustle and I'm sure you can imagine that. Now let's listen to some real world examples. Devoid of the hustle and bustle of the tranquil beach area where you can soak in So there's all this hustle and bustle When you're lifted above the your sense of self fades away and you Question 5. After all that hustle and bustle, I rented For some peace and quiet. Peace and quiet. This represents calm, the After a busy work of traveling, Or you could say I love visiting my family, Now let's listen to some real world examples. Visitors can wander the winding paths or If you go looking for peace and quiet, A lot of people come here over and over Here how are you doing so far? Question 6. The two athletes were necking in the race. They were neck and neck, neck and neck and neck. This means they were in a close We commonly use this with elections. The election was neck and neck We use this with companies competing. Our companies were neck and neck Let's listen to some real world examples. Originally, results showed Morales in a neck It is neck and neck between the seven Through a really complex assault course Question 7 You have to help your cousin. He's your and blood. He's your flesh and blood. This means related by blood or a family member. Of course, you'll always have a place Or someone could say a family member You're my flesh and blood. Let's listen to some real world examples. They're made of flesh and blood the way we are. This kid, you know, my flesh and blood. I wanted to imprint her with all of my It's because we're flesh and blood. We're biological creatures. Question 8. Sorry I missed your call. I was out and all afternoon I was This means that you were active and going You might say, after being sick for weeks, In this case, it's an adjective. You can also use this if you want to be So if someone asks you where were you, you can reply back and be vague In this case, it's unknown. Now let's listen to some real world examples. I love seeing all the Snow. When I'm out and about, it's in my purse. Anything that you've noticed out and about that Question 9. He promised to take me to the High and dry. This means to be left in a The company's closure left Or my car broke down and left me high Let's listen to some real world examples. But after the Soviet Union fell in 1991, So what do you do then, if Shellfish and seaweeds. Which were normally near the. Water were now high and dry. You're doing such a great job. Question 10 Learning English has its and downs. It has its ups and downs. This is of course periods of positive and periods of negative the This is commonly used as comfort to someone. So perhaps your friend could let you in their relationship and you can say all You'll get through this. So you're using this to offer comfort. Or you could say I'm so sorry you lost your job. Remember the company left you high and dry. I'm so sorry you lost your job. Life has its ups and downs. Let's listen to some real world examples. But you talk so much about the What made you want to be make yourself so Ups and downs in your career No matter what I always can go back and I end Question 11 First, and we need to establish trust. First and foremost, this means most Commonly used when you're giving starting a conversation, a meeting. First and foremost, we need to review the budget. First and foremost, make sure you subscribe Let's listen to some real world examples. First and foremost, stop signs are They are first and foremost a hunting dog. I'm first and foremost committed to my responsibilities as the Senate Question 12 I'm the client so it's my way or the. Or the highway our first pair This is an ultimatum, meaning you It's my way or the highway So if you're not willing to do Or you can quit. You can leave or you could say to your but if you're living in my house, Follow my rules or move out, leave. Let's listen to some real world examples. I mean, if the basic proposition then we're probably not going to get something Very simply, what I did was I said it's my. Way or the highway I'm going to. Write the IEP you're going. To do everything my way. We must put aside our My Way or the Highway pride. Question 13 It's my wedding and I want to keep it. No, no must. No fuss, no muss. No fuss, no muss. This means simple and without To understand this, you need A fuss is a show of emotion that is unnecessary For example, she made a big fuss about But remember, this binomial Let's hope the meeting goes Let's listen to some real world examples. No fuss, no muss, no dealing with It's just done. One pan, no fuss, no muss. And everyone. 'S going to love it. Monthly fees for music or movie streaming services are touted as a no fuss, no Question 14. The prize is yours. You won the game fair and fair and square. This means honestly, without cheating or trickery. For example, they suspected she cheated, but it She didn't cheat or she's the boss's but she earned the promotion fair and square. She deserved it. Now let's listen to some real world examples. And success doesn't. Count unless you earn it fair and square. He won this debate fair and square. There's things we want. Fair and square Question 15 You won't but you will see improvements This means gradually in small The team worked through the problem step by step. In this case, it's an adverb. You can also say she provided Notice this comes before a noun Now let's listen to some real world examples. Here are some step by step instructions. It would give them a For how to. Better their chances at a green card. Brick by brick, inch by inch, step by step, So how many pairs did you know? Share your score in the Think of everything you learned. So do you want me to make If you do, put yes, yes, yes, yes, And of course, make sure you like this lesson, share it with your friends and subscribe to And you can get this free speaking to speak English fluently and confidently. You can click here to download it or And do you know these 15 words? Watch it and find out right now.