This video is about evolution. Not the biological evolution you're familiar environment. No, this is about virtual evolution. About discovering the extent to which video natural order and let us experiment with the ...And the extent to which they can make us The ambitious dream of using computers to be amazed at just how far the technology has So, for this entry into the archive, we'll and see how far we can push this concept before Our story begins in 1970, when British mathematician 'Life.' The rules are simple: within a blank void, will reproduce if there are enough cells next or end up alone. Simple, right? Well, you activate the simulation, and then... Using these rules and basic starting patterns, complex chain reactions that legitimately well, alive. Pretty quickly, people discovered that depending would emerge with their own unique behavior. Microbe-like colonies of pixels that appeared So called "Puffer Trains" traveled along "Rakes" left behind trails of fully functional This pattern called the Rabbits starts small, time before stabilizing. It's a lot like watching cells under a microscope. Of course, the pixels in the game of life but they're an incredible starting point can be at creating complex emergent behaviors. It's proven to be a game with almost limitless But we can take things further. Life Engine is a more recent game by the amazing just emergent behavior, but natural selection. Like Conway's game, Life Engine is all about have different functions. Orange pixels act as a mouth, allowing lifeforms Green pixels produce energy like plants. Blue pixels can move about like animals. Pink pixels do damage to other lifeforms, Finally, grey pixels act as eyes, allowing other. When you begin a game in Life Engine, it always slowly expanding out from the center via reproduction. Yet each time a pixel reproduces, it has a a genetic mutation. As with real world natural selection, some and give that specific lifeform more opportunities In almost every game, fast moving lifeforms creatures, and then settle into an equilibrium From here, this simulated petri dish becomes weapons, armor, and evasive maneuvers to out A similar youtuber-created game is The Bibites, compete for food. This game also works on a system of random Bibites getting more and more complicated There's more both games than this, and there's discussed in this video, in the description. There are a lot of incredible games in this Like the highly underrated Cute Mold by Erytau, slime molds. Or the remarkable Clusters by algorithmic of particle systems that begin to display some hidden AI, but purely as the result of Many of these games are inspired by Conway's own unique spin. There's one final computational model that Developed by scholar Bert Chan in 2015, Lenia Game of Life that uses continuous generalization Using high resolution patterns, Lenia produces with over four hundred individual species Lenia patterns have displayed an impressive with biological life, including bilaterally and even intercommunication between colonies. Chan has even organized these patterns into are so advanced some have called them 'Mathematical And sure, by most definitions these patterns the result of rules interacting in unique But in a way, our universe and all the incredible of rules interacting in unique ways. And these simulations are only getting more Following the path of life on Earth, it's simulators, and take our first, very awkward Evolution is a game by programmer Keiwan that joints with bones, and bones with AI controlled The game's neural network will then try forwards over multiple generations, with each next to the current model. At first, most simulations are an absolute the neural network will eventually get better expect. And that's because this AI doesn't know at first, it's quite bad at it. Every movement it learns is through trial own version of natural selection. And with enough practice, these simulated are reasonably close to the real thing. And it's not just walking that this network Depending on the design of your creature, a kangaroo, or even take to the skies. And there are more challenging tasks available You can try to make the poor creature climb obstacles. While at times hilarious, there is a strange struggle against gravity. Something about this game really captures where advancement often involves countless Though cleverly simplified, this is, in many A similar game to Evolution is Evol Pedal where a lifeform made up of randomly mutating The game also has an amazing '3D version' walk by any means necessary, which can have With over 100 moving parts, it's difficult You can also adjust the settings to allow backwards, which often leads to even more The game even lets you fully adjust the gravity, things breaking down a bit. Such is the price of glorious, glorious evolution... But maybe we're taking too many steps too After all, life on our planet didn't first forgiving environment of water. In 2016, a group of scientists used artificial soft-bodied creatures. These simulated lifeforms were made of squares actively moving tissue, and blue resenting The AI found that using a combination of both producing a range of body types convergent And to study the relationship between swimming moved onto land, where they found clever ways navigate a terrestrial setting. These experiments essentially created virtual into the evolution of early land animals. That same year, another group of scientists where a network evolved a body from a single Each evolutionary run produced something different, life. It's worth remembering that this AI didn't a way to keep balanced that is convergent On the subject of muscle-based locomotion, from 2013, with a 3D simulation of various These models learned to walk through trial No motion capture or keyframe animation was product of AI learning. The examiners then pitted this AI against creatures adjusting their gait accordingly. They even put them through obstacle courses, random slopes to their environments. While sometimes they'd succeed in catching strikingly consistent. A more recent experiment presented at the teach different models to walk. Many of these results resemble a three-dimensional as both are attempting to simulate similar But these scientific simulations are not games may one day be used to make virtual entertainment As amazing as all these simulations and video faint dream of the one unified game, that terrestrial locomotion to create the ultimate For a lot of people that dream once had a Released in the late 2000s, the buildup to As early as 2005 demos of this hyper-detailed were being shown, and it looked incredible. There was a sense among some before its release with infinite customization, would change And then the game came out. While Spore did impress with its creativity was significantly shallower and less, uh, To be clear, I'm still quite a fan of this at it gives me a huge hit of nostalgia. And it does explore a number of the principles manner, which I've made two separate videos But it certainly takes a more cartoonish approach like an underwater multicellular stage weren't For many, it wasn't the comprehensive evolution Yet the dream of Spore hasn't vanished just Recently, there has been a surge of new games Spore and push them further. One game on this exciting new frontier is Currently a work in progress, Adapt is a game like Spore's creature stage, although it and finding your niche through careful evolutionary And unlike Spore, Adapt lets you build a creature which is a neat addition. The game is currently free to play on Steam, subgenre. One evolution simulator that really impresses Created by Wessel Stoop, this polygon-art in an ecosystem, and then simulate their interactions And I do mean every organism -- unlike most animals, but plants too, and even things like And the depth of these systems are absolutely When placing a plant, you need to consider and the length of its roots, and the amount softness, and the temperature, and the wind Different plant colors realistically grow your planet orbits. There's a full system of flowers you can of pollen that affects reproductivity. You can also use bioluminescence in plants in animals to mislead prey. In terms of creatures, there are flying lifeforms, life, different eyes that can see different You can even adjust the instincts of each to change how they react to different creatures, It's absolutely off the chain. Especially when you consider that like Adapt, Compared to Spore which was made by a goliath course don't have the same resources behind there are still passionate people who believe could simulate life like never before. And if we're going to talk about dreamers, Beginning development over a decade ago, Thrive frustration with the final product of Spore. A communal project open to all who wish to and scientific approach to Spore's gameplay In the game, you start as a single, realistic As you advance, your cell splits into a complex, that can be fully shaped by the player, with Over the next few stages, this creature grows to communicate using a multifaceted language Until eventually the technology compounds level of power and can control the entire It's all so cool. It also doesn't exist. Since Thrive a crowd-sourced game, anyone Thrive, but actually implementing those ideas Most of the images people share of the game's Sciocont. Right now, over a decade after the game's first one: The Microbe Stage. And to be clear, this initial stage is very It's an exceedingly complex and realistic plants, you're balancing your Glucose, Ammonia, it a game about virtual chemistry. While this attention to scientific detail truly admirable product. Another cool thing about Thrive is that while in the environment randomly mutate and adapt, microbe lineages, all with their own randomly Most people seem to be aware that the other But it is pretty inspiring to see so many the dream of the ultimate evolution simulator Before this journey through virtual evolution to show you. A simulation that does something incredible Really small. OpenWorm is an international open science every cell of a type of worm that grows just That includes every neuron in its body, the cells, organs, and even its genetic code. The current model is so complete that when can move like a worm. As incredible as this recreation is however, the electrical signals within the brain a But it may only be a matter of time... As our ability to simulate life gets more about our responsibilities. Over the course of making this video I caused the purpose of education and entertainment. And sure, these 'creatures' were pixels, But looking at how our ability to simulate that things are advancing rapidly. If one day we are able to truly render a universe from biological life, I wonder if we'll about what we do with that power? We know how people play The Sims, after all... Perhaps one day, we'll think of those first comparable to the first cells dividing in of a Pandora's Box that marks a new chapter And what that chapter looks like will be up Existential musings aside, the future of this There are plenty of other games that feature a chance to talk about. If you found this subject interesting, once scientific papers discussed in this video incredible people who are paving the way in As always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your the notification icon to stay up to date on See you in the next video.