Hey, everyone. Welcome Today's video is going to be a complete print-on-demand tutorial. This is going to go over that I personally do, and I've been in this so hopefully this video can to go from idea of wanting to getting your first sale. Everything in between is going and here on the computer. I can put you on screen recording so you can follow along step-by-step, and get everything you Now, this video is going it probably could be a course as you guys know, I put so really take advantage of this video. It's got all the special tools that I've learned to use, and I'm sharing it all So all I ask is if you enjoy this video, just give it a thumbs up and let me know down in the comments. Alright, without further ado, let's go ahead and get because there's going to to cover here. So before we get into this, for those of you who don't essentially what is you create T-shirt designs, you upload them to a and they get sold on these websites. People can purchase those and the company or the website that you uploaded that design to, they do all of the shipping out to the customer, and they handle the So essentially, we create we upload them to the right websites, and if everything is done correctly, all we do is collect our paycheck. Now, I know this sounds that's too good to be true, but I've been doing this and I'm just giving back and sharing all of this information freely so that you guys can start for yourself as well. Now, to give you an idea let's go into my computer real quickly. So print-on-demand, I'm gonna because they are one of the You search for a type of T-shirt. Right now, I'm searching And you scroll down and you can see Amazon Merch on Demand. This is a little label that's That's using this Now, some sellers on Amazon, they could physically print the products and ship them to you, this business model of print-on-demand, are just uploading the designs. It gets labeled as Amazon Merch on Demand. And then, basically, you can come in here, you can click on this shirt. If you like this shirt, to whatever type of shirt you're buying, whatever color you want this shirt in. You select your size. And then you can place your order. You can buy it now or add it to the cart, and purchase it just like you but then Amazon will do where they print the shirt And again, all of the just like it would Now, I wanted to show you that because Amazon's very easy to relate to, so that you can understand But Amazon's not the only There are several other websites that I'll talk about in this video. Some of them are better than others. I'll talk about that But you can upload these same design to multiple different websites, and they all get their own traffic and you can basically repeat on all of these different websites. Now, one more small thing to getting into this step-by-step tutorial, is that there's two different I'll cover this quickly, but it's an important thing to note. There is passive print-on-demand, which I basically just showed you. And then there is active print-on-demand, which is you create your own website, you try to drive your own traffic, and you basically build And then you can still use to actually print those But you have to collect the order, you have to send it to that provider, and then they do all of the shipping. You still are responsible So with that being said, of building your own website and these other websites, I personally prefer the passive side because everything is done for you. You just create the and you can really sit back, you don't even need internet access, and all of these sales can and you don't have to lift a finger. So needless to say, this whole tutorial that I'm going to walk you through, is for this passive-style business model, because ultimately, I think a lot better in the long run. So now that we should of what print-on-demand is and what's going to be now let's get into the I have a lot of good tools to show you and some good processes. So let's just go ahead and jump in the computer and show you. So when you decide you you can create T-shirt designs in any topic or any niche that you want, as long as you're not doing Typically, this is or song lyrics or logos of businesses. You don't wanna use any of those things because they are owned by other people. We wanna be looking for things like this camping shirt here that says, &quot;Camping is my happy place.&quot; That is most likely not that's not going to be owned by someone. It's not a logo. That's the sweet spot of Now, my first piece of advice for you would be to think about or niches you'd like to create designs in. If it's something that or you know about, that is to start for you. And when you're just getting it can be hard to get of getting those designs created, getting them uploaded to the websites, and then waiting a little bit until you see those sales started. Then you will have that So in the beginning, rather than hunting for or the perfect niche to just think of what's relevant to you. For me personally, I like the outdoors and camping and traveling. That's why I'm using this as an example. So that's what I'm gonna walk But for you, that might You might really like culinary things, you could use that as your niche. Or you might really like or rock climbing, whatever that is to you, let's use that as your way So once you have that topic or idea of what kinda shirts you and this can change any time, you just need a good one to start with to get you through this tutorial, then let's go over to a different website and figure out what kind to put on these shirts. So my initial place that to get ideas for creating these designs, is to go over to etsy.com. Now, we're not actually for print-on-demand, however, they are a great place to get inspiration because they have a ton of So what I'm going to do is I'm going to type in camping T-shirt. Now once you search this, you are going to get a ton of hits here and you can see a ton Some of them are pretty funny, I hate people. That's why people go into to go camp. There are a lot of different designs that you can get ideas from here. And the important thing is Just look at these slogans. That's all we need to Now, going to Etsy has been for T-shirt designs for basically ever. It's just such a good resource, However, in this tutorial, I have another way that you This is something that's brand new, so I'm really excited to share So there's a new website that's created by a company called OpenAI, basically standing for and they create products that have artificial intelligence in them. And they recently created So let me open that up over here. And the way to get to and you'll basically just have to create a free account to use this. And this is going to be I don't know how long this is going to be available for free. I think currently as a customer-facing AI, but I have a feeling that is going to purchase this where you have to pay to use it, or not have it customer facing or free. So long story short, if this is going to make things a lot easier. It's not required. It's just a good way that you can find really So once you get in here, you can basically ask ChatGPT anything, and you're basically asking artificial intelligence something, and it's giving you an answer back. Now, I do not agree with this 100%, because I think it's And the biggest problem here is that the information on most answers is not factual. It's not 100% credible. But for our instance of asking ChatGPT what are good T-shirt you're going to be blown So allow me to show you this, and then bear with me that you have to understand throughout it, but this is likely like it has mine. So here we go. I'm just going to jump So over here on ChatGPT, what are 10 copyright-free Now, you can swap this out to 10 copyright-free, T-shirt slogans. So once you hit Enter, it's going to take a and give you an answer. You can see it's loading down here. And you can switch this to 10, you can switch it to 20, no matter how big you want this list, but 10 is a good place to start. So as you can see, it's and it's basically just giving me slogans for T-shirt designs. This is really crazy. I've never seen any tool in the past. So this is something Again, I don't know how long so if you can get access So here we go. Life is Camping is my happy place. The mountains are calling and I must go. These are absolutely awesome. But there's something that's and it's that, like I not all of these are factual or true. So I explicitly asked it for copyright-free Well, what I have found are always copyright free. Some of these may be or by another seller, If you accidentally go ahead and just use this in your that listing will be removed and you're going to get In some cases, they will ban your account for copyright infringement if So once you get this list, it's basically a way to just get the text, and then you figure out how which I'll walk you But before we go from to actually creating the design, the huge important step here is to make sure that these So you could manually into the government website to see if they're protected on apparel, or you can just use a tool for this that basically does it for you. This is what I've been doing for years, and it makes it much easier. So what I'm going to do is and use Command + C and copy them. And then I'm going to go to our next tool that we're going to use here, which is called Merch Informer. This is one that if you've I talk about because I've for this instance right here. So on Merch Informer, or something like that. This is our first paid tool here, but it's going to help you avoid all of the legal issues a copyright-protected slogan. So I'm just going to log into my account, but for you, you may wanna go to pricing and check this out. I actually have a discount code from them that I'll put down in the description. That gives you 20% off, so that I'll bring it down Well worth it. You don't have to use this. There are other ways that you can search the government website. This is just going to make So let me sign in and Okay, so once you're basically come over to the left side and hit Trademarks. It'll drop down and then Now, in here, we're just I'm just going to paste that we got from that website. And then the only tedious thing is I just have to delete so that the search is done properly. All right, so once you with no quotations on them, just hit Save. Now, all of these are into the results down here. Now it says, &quot;Safe to So all you have to do is then Check Trademarks, wait for and then just refresh your page and it'll give you the new answers on if they're copyright protected or not. So as it turns out, all of these 10 here are safe to use on apparel, so they get the green check mark. If you got the red X, that means that it's copyright protected. Do not use that on a because you're going to So in this instance of on the ChatGPT, all of these Now, this does not happen every time, just in this example. However, I really do wanna emphasize that not all of the time these are going to be copyright free. So don't just create this because you're going to be if you accidentally upload things that are copyright protected. So now if we go back to Merch Informer, and we know that all of we basically have our text and we have our slogan So now we are all the way at the point of creating the designs, which is basically our last step here. Once we create the designs, then we upload it to the websites. And I'll talk about which so that you're not wasting You're just uploading to the ones that truly get traffic Now, when it comes to designing, this is where you really and make sure you're doing it right. All of the steps up to here So we have good ways to find designs, we have good ways to check if but now you have to create Now, in the beginning, when I started out, seven-some odd years ago, I did not have graphic design experience. Still, I would consider myself not able to create designs by hand that are going to be really good designs. That stuff is really challenging. It truly is, and I've So what I have done is I that offer print-on-demand This is by far the best way to do this if you're trying to start Essentially, what we need to be able to do is create great designs where it doesn't take us too long, so that we really can creating great designs, We're not going to spending an entire day creating one design because to cover enough ground, you're not going to create enough designs. In my peak of doing print-on-demand, I was uploading somewhere That was creating the to the different websites. Now, that is a lot of work but the tool that I'm about to show you will allow you to do that. So if it is just you in you don't have other people helping you, you can create a lot of designs yourself. You're not going to be on a single design. So the next tool that we're is strictly for designing. So this is called Placeit.net. This is the tool that I I've used all of the and a lot of them run into or the templates or the So even if the slogan or is copyright free, some you're using a font that's protected or owned by someone else, and they don't even tell you that until you start reading the fine print. Everything that you find on Everything from the graphics, to the text, to the layouts, everything. This is why I use Placeit. Placeit is also going to be one of those that is a paid tool to use. So what I recommend if you it's only a couple dollars a month. I think right now, they're if you do the entire year. If you just do it month to month, I believe it's about $15 per month. But they also gave me a coupon because I've used them for years now. That gives you 15% off, so it brings you down And then you get full, unlimited access. Since this is another paid tool, I just wanted to spend a minute here to try to justify why I use it and why I'm recommending it to you guys, because I know that's You're trying to start a business, you're not trying to pay Hopefully, that justifies Let's go ahead and just So first, let me log in here and then I'll show you how to All right, now that I'm logged in here, let's go over to the homepage here. And let's hover over Designs and then go over to T-shirt Designs. Now, once you're in T-shirt Designs, this is going to be all of If you hover over it, it'll show you the different that you could create with that design. And if you scroll down to the bottom, you can see that they have tons of pages. There's literally 600 different pages of T-shirt designs, and there's gotta be 20-plus on each page. So what I recommend to you, to get the best outcome for your search, really to be the most efficient here, is to type in the niche or the topic that you are creating So I'm going to type in camping, and I'm just going to search for that. This is going to give Then I'm going to come and sort it by just T-shirt Designs. So there are 47 camping T-shirt designs, I can see the number right here, that are specifically And when you hover over these, you can see slightly different colors, different graphics, and we can choose any of these. All of these are going to So as you scroll through here, you can see there are And some of these are Something like this would be in Photoshop and you can edit the text, change the graphics, change the color if you want to, and just save it to your computer, and you just saved all of that time. So I'm going to use one of these. Like, look how intricate these are. This is just every time I come in here, it continues to blow my mind. This would be so difficult to create and you can just use it here. So I like this one over here. These circular designs, I think I just tend to see it a lot of the times when I'm out there. People have shirts on like this, so that's what I'm going to use. It's more of a minimal design. I'm going to click on that. It'll bring us right into And now what I'm going to do, and look at our list of 10 phrases. So now we have all of these, and basically we can use So since we have 47 and I have have 10 right here, I can put every single one of these So I'm going to use this one, Life is better in the woods. I just think that's a cool phrase. And if you look at our design, it's clearly in the woods. So this is going to match up good here. So this first box right here, and again, you can move any of this, it's not going to fit in a circle anymore, but if you do need to move a graphic or make it bigger, you can and you can just hit back button if you wanna undo something, or you can do reset if you to how it was in the beginning. So our text here is going to be, Life is better in the woods. So I'm just going to switch this out here. Life is better in the woods. And as you can see, it kind and basically we're done. You really don't have to do anything else but change the text, if you don't want to. But if you do wanna change all of these are copyright free. But all you do is come in here and you can select a different font, and it'll just change that in real time. So that's actually a really nice font. Let's just go ahead and There we go, recently used. Perfect. So before we can download there's one more step So let's go over to Background right here, click on that dropdown This is basically going to turn So the background will not be printed in any color on the T-shirt, you'll just have the graphic right here that gets printed on that T-shirt. So I know you can't really but that's why we change And then once we do that, we're just going to click download. It's just going to say that it's almost ready. And then all you do is and it downloads it So just like that, we have So when you zoom in on this, you can see that the quality is great. So it'll print. I have And it has a transparent So this is our first design So basically, we would We'd go back to our list over and we would just start doing all of these in different templates. That's how easy it is So I'm just going to use it for this tutorial, and we'll proceed through the next steps. For you, once you get you'd wanna stay here and And then you have your 10 designs ready, then you can go to the next step and efficiently upload all of them to the different websites. All right, so first off, congratulations if you've made it this far. You basically have done all You've found different slogans, you figured out which or which ones are protected And then you came over and with really professional templates. So most of the hard work is already done. Now it's really just logistics stuff. This is technical things of and uploading your designs and a description to them, Once you've uploaded these we're about to talk about, those on those websites essentially forever. And they will do the marketing. They bring in their own traffic. So essentially, we're nearly at the end of this process here already. Now, I'm going to start off This one's called TeePublic. Now, the reason I'm using TeePublic is because they have a that's simple to understand. So for you guys who are new starting out, this should help you catch you up to speed and kind of give you the idea when we're uploading these, what kind of descriptions And then this is just one of the websites. So if you look up a list of different print-on-demand websites, there Now, I've used a lot of the for years, so I've seen from how many items are uploaded, and I've uploaded these same designs on multiple different websites to see which ones sell the best. So you can upload them because all of these So you can have the same on multiple different websites. However, my recommendation to of different websites. There's a reason that I is because you don't wanna waste your time uploading to 15 different websites, when maybe only five of the vast majority of your sales. So save your time from and I would recommend just So the ones that I would would be TeePublic, just that's going to be a good one. They get well over a million every single month, totally organically, browsing three different shirts to buy. And then you have Redbubble, the Amazon website we And then you have Zazzle These are going to be Now, I'll put all of those and I would recommend just so you have it on your computer. So later when you're going through this, you can know which websites to Now, the only thing is that all of these websites, you can just create an account and start uploading right away. The only one that's going is Amazon's. So that Amazon Merch on they literally get billions of people to their website every So they are a little bit more selective. So on Merch on Demand for Amazon, you're going to have to actually So once you finish this tutorial, you can go over to merch.amazon.com and you can basically just This means you made it to the right place. And you just click sign up. It'll have you fill out I'll link up a video that you can watch that gives you tips on that application to try But it may take about two weeks until you hear back from them If you don't get accepted, I highly recommend reapplying until you do get accepted, because there's a lot of that's going to come from being a print-on-demand seller on Amazon. So coming back to TeePublic, let's go through this upload process here. So when you start on TeePublic, just come over to the right side, go to Create an Account. And then just fill in your information and create an account. What I would recommend to you, is first and last name, create an email address That way you can log into that inbox and have all of your all in one place. So once you've gotten this far down, you're going to see this &quot;Yes, I'd like to advertise my product in off-site marketing.&quot; This is something that a lot And basically, it's free marketing. So they will automatically kind of pull the information and put it into that go throughout all different So as you know, on the internet, just a crash course in this real quick, ad providers can kind of in front of people that are So if the person is searching or camping jackets or on Google, well then once or once they're on a different website on YouTube or something, the camping-related advertisements will be put in front of them. So it's relevant targeting. Well, some of these websites So they will take your listing or whatever your topic is, and they will put that in front of people who are Now, this is something that if you were to try you would have to pay plus you'd have to learn I've done all of that. Having this done for you is So why not take advantage of it? So just make sure you it should be that way by default, and then later if you hey, I don't wanna do that anymore. I don't know why you'd do that, but you still have the later in your account. So just leave it on in the beginning, just so you don't forget about it. And then just click Create My Account. It's going to send you so just go verify that in and then you're basically all set. So now we go back to Log In and we log in with our credentials once our account is verified. So now we have a account on That's how easy this is. So now you can go to My Account, it'll show you your earnings and then you can go to Upload A Design. So the first thing it's is create a storefront. So this name is totally up to you. It doesn't have to be because on this website it's going to be all of your different listings under one storefront. Now, the cool part about this they market your listings individually. So basically, if someone wants to see all of your different designs at once, they'll see your storefront. But in the vast majority of cases, they're just going to see that they are purchasing and they won't ever see So call this anything that you would like. You can be as creative as you want here. Just don't put anything It's not going to help Now, once you've put a name in here and it says that it is You can just say, Take Me To The Uploader. So now you're basically So all we have to do is, Well how we download it from Placeit, is already in a PNG with ready for us so we don't have So basically, just click to that you created from Placeit. Give this just a second to load here. And then this is our design. As you can see, it's got so you really can't see it, but we know from creating it And then we can scroll and we can give it a title, a little bit more information, and then we can pick the colors. So let me start at the top here, because this is going to be the same on all of the different So you have to give this Two important things here. So what I typically do is that's going to have keywords in it of what that shirt is about. So this is a camping shirt, and the text that we put on that shirt is, Life is Better in the Woods. So that is what we wanna put in our title, that it's a camping shirt Life is better in the woods. That way if someone's looking for just generally a camping we will still show up. But if they have found Life is better in the woods and they're looking through Google specifically for a shirt like That's all I'm going to type in, because at the end of this, it's going to say T-shirt for us. So let's just copy that. I'm going to paste it This is going to be the description. You can write out a basically a sentence or two just saying, this shirt is a camping shirt and it says Life is better in the woods. Get this for yourself or give it as a gift for someone who loves camping. Now, I don't personally do that because I don't see much benefit to that. I think people are buying not so much being talked So I just put the same keywords in there. That'll help us a little bit Also, by doing this, it so you're not spamming anyone, but you're just copy pasting and you can get through these Now, coming over to the tags over here, this is a camping shirt. So generally, I'm going of what that is. If it's a tennis shirt, And I don't like to go because I don't wanna get excluded from the overall topic that So I'm just going to type camping. That's your one main tag. And then the rest of these It'll auto pull these up for and you can basically just select them. This is something I love about TeePublic, just makes it easy. So you can do hiking, you can do nature, all of the ones that are So as you start clicking these, all of these are very relevant. So I'm probably going to use all of these. And that's probably good right there. And then the last thing is just, Does this contain any mature content? And you'll just answer no here. I wouldn't recommend creating You're just going to exclude yourself or potentially get into trouble. So I wouldn't include that, especially not for This part up top is going to be the same for the different websites. So keep that in mind. And basically, the only from the different websites, is what kind of products that Now, this is another important part for all of the different websites. This design that we and it's generally light, so you don't wanna print a white because you won't be able to see it. So if you were to select white here, you can see it's just So rather if we were to select you can see how good So what you can do is just come down here, and if you have a light I want it printed on dark shirts only, and it'll uncheck all of the which would be hard to read it on. That's just a nice feature on TeePublic. But on the other sites, So coming back up here, you're going to choose a default color. That's another one of our settings that we have to fill out here. So for this, I'm going to choose I typically go with the if it is a white color shirt like this. And then we're going to do Now, if you picked a color like something like a black, all of them will be filled out for you. All of the ones that are that's in different colors. So you wanna make sure that 'cause you can't see it. These are just the defaults, so basically what's going when someone's looking for But then once they they'll be able to choose that we selected. So over on the right here, we that this is going to be available on. This is what's great is all we do is upload the on all of these different products. If someone likes it on a they can purchase it and ship it out to them on in the color and size that they choose. So all of these are good. The only things that and I'll show you that here, is if you come down here. And you have it on like things like that, it gets a little bit challenging here. So by and large, you're going typically just T-shirts. That's going to sell by far the most. These are all extra products. And as you go to different websites, especially something like Redbubble, once you get over there, they have a ton of different products. The problem that I run into is that the products don't always fit. So if you're going to it gets a little bit big in some cases and you have to go in and reformat it. This one probably would work. But in other cases, your graphic is kind of So what I end up doing is I All I want is the just because that's going And then we don't run or we don't run into on different miscellaneous products that might only be sold of a T-shirt. So I just make it easy for myself. I would recommend the same for you. So just like this, we everything out. I'm just gonna do a once over here. We have our design with We have our title, our and saying that it has And then when we come down, we have all of the different products, and we have what kind that's going to be in. We have all the different available colors that this will be in. And then when we come down, everything else is turned off. We're just having T-shirts and apparel. So now you can say, I agree, As you can see, just like this, you've just created a listing. So all of this is ready to go. So it says Life Is Better In it added the T-shirt to the end. It's made by Pro TeeShop, just This is the only place people that storefront we were talking about. But it says it's a camping T-shirt. Our description shows up right below it. And it looks nice and clean. All of the different You can choose the different kind of shirt that someone wants to purchase it in. Size, different style, and they can even switch it and then they can just click Add To Cart. The sales are going to run for you. The marketing will be with those off-site ads, and you don't have to do anything else. That was the whole process. If you wanted to stop right What I would recommend to you if you really wanna build is take that same design the Life is better in the woods that you have saved on your desktop, and go do this same process on the other websites we talked about. That will give you four other listings that are identical to this from all of those different websites. So another really important is that you can be a anywhere in the world. So you could create the and you could live somewhere in the world and then someone could order that shirt on the other side of the world. And some of these different websites even have fulfillment So whichever one is closest to where that customer ordered from, they will print a shirt and to keep shipping times really fast. But for some of you, you because if you live in a that has a really good let's say, and then you that profit from that shirt will get converted to your currency, which may be at a really So you may end up making on each one of these sales. Now generally speaking, between all of these different websites, you'll make anywhere from 2 to $10, sometimes 15 or $20 if it's a hoodie or a more expensive item So you can expect to get And again, you don't have shipping, nothing like that. You just get your split of the profit because you were the So guys, that's it for this video. I'll put all of the links the discount codes and that would be helpful All of those will be I hope this video has really helped you. Again, this is totally just give it a thumbs up and let me know down in the comments. And I'm going to be here So hopefully, this can on a really good business for yourself and get you some passive income flowing. If you have any questions, just let me know down in the comments. Otherwise, I will see you