A stray dog was found next to a garbage pile The dog kept guarding his teddy bear, cuddling together with it I called out to the dog twice, and he walked over to look at me, his eyes filled with helplessness Since it was raining, both of them were dirty. The dog went over to lick the dirt off his teddy bear The dog wasn't afraid of my approach at all, he just kept looking at me. I wondered what he had been through Later, I followed the dog and found him picking up garbage to eat by the river I don't know how long the little one had been hungry, he was even chewing grass from the ground. It broke my heart to watch It took a long time to coax the dog to come with me. I told him I'd take him to get good food, but noticed he kept looking back As we walked, the dog suddenly stopped, whimpering, and it was getting dark The dog looked anxious but unwilling to move, kept climbing on me, and growling softly The dog wasn't afraid of me at all, but for some reason he seemed reluctant to go home with me After walking a while we stopped again, the dog still stayed in place looking back At first I thought he was scared, but later realized he might have something unfinished Because he climbed onto me again, growling urgently, looking anxious - this wouldn't be normal behavior So I started following him, he led me back, occasionally turning to check if I was keeping up The dog led me to a place, and when I saw the teddy bear I broke down - he had gone back to find his teddy He wanted me to take his teddy bear home too, not wanting to leave it alone there hungry and cold Tears instantly fell from my eyes. The dog kept watching me, wanting me to take his teddy bear Let's take the teddy bear home together then. I picked up the teddy, and he stayed close behind me as we walked The dog wouldn't leave his teddy bear in the cold rainy night; they would never part Meanwhile, I felt an indescribable pain in my heart - even a dog would never abandon a toy that couldn't speak or move Yet he had to wander outside, so fearful and helpless. I couldn't imagine his life out there Come home with me, puppy. I'll take good care of him and his teddy bear, never letting them wander again The next day, I gave the dog's teddy bear a bath so they wouldn't be dirty anymore Though the dog was a stray, his teddy bear wasn't a stray bear. With the teddy's company, he wasn't a lonely dog anymore While I was washing the teddy bear, the dog kept looking up from below, perhaps worried about his teddy Baby, just wait patiently a little longer. His teddy will soon transform into a clean teddy - the most beautiful teddy bear in the world After washing and drying, I brought it back to the dog. He was so eager to take it But he seemed to notice the teddy smelled different after washing, and kept circling around sniffing the teddy's scent The little one doesn't look like a stray dog, perhaps he accidentally ran away from his owner I've posted videos of the little one in local dog groups. If the dog's owner sees it, they should contact me Such a well-behaved and obedient dog being lost, his owner must be very worried Don't worry, before the owner comes to find the dog, I'll take good care of both the dog and his teddy bear Seeing his teddy bear clean and sitting in front of him, the dog wagged his tail happily Day 3, the little one has already made the bean bag his den, he and teddy fit perfectly sleeping in it The dog can actually understand what I say - he sits down immediately when I tell him to Yesterday I took the dog to the hospital for a check-up. He has a fungal skin infection; the wounds have been treated Got anti-inflammatory medicine and topical medication, plus he needs shots for coronavirus, though his symptoms are mild The doctor said to give him shots for two days and observe, then just apply medicine at home The dog is really well-behaved - in three days at home he's never made noise He's also very strong - today when I took him for shots, even though it hurt he only whimpered softly He's so understanding it hurts my heart. I hope he doesn't have to be so understanding here with me Day 4, today I arranged a companion for the dog's teddy bear This way his teddy will never be lonely, and the dog seems to really like this new friend Day 5, the dog's condition has improved a lot. He's not having diarrhea anymore and eats very eagerly He eats everything carefully, never picky, though sometimes I worry he eats too quickly Today was the last shot. Comforting the poor little one who whimpered in pain from the injection Rewarded him with a dog treat - a sausage bought from the pet store. Consulted the doctor who said it's okay to eat You can see how much the little one loves eating this sausage. The smell is so good, I even want to try it Look how energetically he's eating, chomping away. After finishing the last bite, I told him there was no more He still came up to tear at the bag, looking like he hadn't had enough. But the doctor said though it's okay to eat, he can't have too much, so only one stick Even after I threw the bag in the trash, the little one wouldn't leave, looking at me as if asking &quot;Really no more?&quot; Day 6, today the dog suddenly won't eat, just keeps guarding his teddy bear He looks very sad, don't know if he's homesick. It really breaks my heart to see I don't know how to comfort him either. He just sits there quietly, not making any noise Hope the teddy bear can give him some comfort. I tell him not to be sad, he has teddy with him. I start using the teddy to cheer him up He still quietly guards the teddy, sometimes staring blankly out the window. Don't know what's going through his little mind He's probably waiting for his owner to come take him home. When very sad, he leans against the teddy bear But I don't know how to tell him. Perhaps he understands everything; his love is so pure I pet him, hoping to make him feel a little better. Sometimes he just leans on teddy's shoulder He probably spent his previous days and nights like this too. Maybe this gives him some sense of security Seeing him so sad, I feel helpless. I just don't want him to be sad anymore, but there's so little I can do Can only slowly comfort him like this, hope he falls asleep soon. When asleep there are no worries. Also hope he can find his mom soon Day 7, I took the dog and the original resident out for a walk, taking him to see more scenery outside In the evening I specially set off fireworks for the little one, hoping the beautiful fireworks can help him forget past pain If the owner won't come find him, then let me be his mom. We'll start anew, I'll do my best to give him the best Day 10, the dog is doing much better now, his illness has healed. I named him Harley Day 12, Harley now dares to tear up the house and chew on cabinets When I took the little one to the hospital before, the doctor said he has Husky genes - he might be a child of a Husky and village dog Didn't expect the Husky genes to awaken so quickly. The original resident also wanted to chew but Harley wouldn't let him Later when I said &quot;don't chew,&quot; the little one immediately stopped and sat down obediently Day 20, today I took both dogs out to play. The door wasn't closed properly and the original resident Orange came in from the yard Came back to chaos - even Harley's teddy bear was torn apart. The nose and eyes were picked up from the yard When Harley came back and saw teddy in pieces, he kept barking anxiously. Orange lay on the ground like nothing happened The original resident Pirate was still chewing teddy's leg, so Harley guarded teddy and growled at him At this moment Harley must have felt so helpless and sad. After coming back he just kept guarding teddy, even though teddy was injured Seeing this scene made me very sad too. I gently held Harley in my arms to comfort him I told Harley I would get teddy repaired, and in a few days he would see teddy back to normal Since Orange tore up Harley's teddy, Harley hasn't acknowledged Orange at all. I'm also angry at Orange now Orange keeps sticking close to me. I ask Orange if he knows what he did wrong, and he just looks at me with a guilty expression Harley still won't acknowledge Orange. Orange is like a child who's done wrong, reflecting in the corner Pirate comes over looking at me, as if asking, &quot;Mom, why haven't they made up yet?&quot; Pirate is caught in the middle feeling troubled. Harley hasn't been eating well for days either, not even interested in his favorite milk powder I tell Harley if he doesn't drink it, Pirate and Orange will finish the milk, but Harley still has no appetite and just walks away Every meal I have to coax him to eat, but he still only eats a little before stopping. And though he had adapted to the environment, he called out many times at night Found that when I put another teddy bear beside him at bedtime, he pulled that teddy down when I turned on the light Because he always used to cuddle with his original teddy to sleep, but these days teddy is being repaired, he might be having trouble adjusting He finally fell asleep after my constant comforting, though he was still growling softly before sleep Day 26, today Harley's teddy bear has been repaired, and I bought him a new toy But Harley seemed to spot his teddy bear behind my back and showed no interest in the new toy Harley was so happy when he saw me take out the teddy bear, immediately coming closer to smell it. You can tell how important teddy is to Harley After teddy came back, Harley's whole demeanor became much brighter, jumping around happily. This is how Harley should be every day Next time mom will protect his teddy bear well and not let his brothers bully it Day 30, Harley has been home for a month now. Today I plan to take a group photo of all my dogs I told the little ones to raise their paws if they agree, and since no one spoke up I took that as consent But they were all playing their own games, completely ignoring what I just said. Called Orange several times I just wanted to take a group photo of them, why is it so difficult? Look how happily Pirate is playing down there Called them several times but no one paid attention. At this moment I felt utterly helpless... They were playing so happily in pairs. After much negotiation they finally stood properly, so let's start shooting That's better, though Pirate is squeezed in the middle. But it's okay, we can see him All three were once stray dogs, but now it's better - we've formed a big family together Day 45, today I took Harley and Pirate to the zoo The two little ones kept curiously watching the horses outside. You could see two cute dog heads in the window A camel came to greet them, but Harley seemed a bit scared. We saw an ostrich and gave it some food All along the way we were feeding animals. Later this fellow was a bit short, so we lowered the window Unexpectedly, when his height wasn't enough he just jumped up to get the food. Harley kept fussing wanting to eat carrots too If I didn't give the little one some food he might get angry. Harley thought whatever the other animals were eating must be good Day 48, while I was reading, the little ones lay quietly beside me resting Harley kept lying on top of me, and after a while Orange changed positions and lay down too Later Pirate also climbed on top of me. Waking up to find his buddies still sleeping, he thought about it and went back to sleep Our Harley slept so peacefully, never waking up during this time Day 51, when I got up to use the bathroom today, I found Harley wasn't sleeping and had tears in his eyes Don't know if the little one dreamed of something bad, or if he was remembering the pain of his past wandering days It really hurts to see him like this. I went over to comfort him, telling him not to be afraid, that mom will always be with him If Harley is remembering painful memories from before, I hope he can forget those memories soon After comforting him for a long time, Harley finally fell asleep. Hope he has sweet dreams. Goodnight Harley Two months now, today I bought Harley and Pirate a rotating sofa and a swing The two little ones lie comfortably resting on them, looking so cozy Day 62, now when Harley sees me make a fist he knows I have something tasty in my hand So he came over, but when I opened my hand to show him there was nothing, the little one turned his head away angrily Day 69, today I took Harley and Orange swimming This should be Harley's first time riding in a sightseeing elevator. The little one found it so fascinating Met a Golden Retriever on the way who looked about four or five times Harley's size Finally arrived at our destination - the pool. Harley was a bit scared at first. I gently put him in, and he swam back up by himself Orange seemed to be taking a bath in there. When Orange came out of the water, instead of being graceful like a water lily, he became a skinny dog This buddy kept spinning in place, like a little seal This is a playground specially designed for dogs, with lots of things for dogs to play with Harley couldn't win against Orange in ball catching, and didn't seem as strong at swimming as Orange either I feel it might be because Orange's legs are a bit longer than Harley's. Orange probably could touch the bottom of the pool When Harley grows up, he should be able to outrun Orange. We saw a Border Collie catching frisbees But Harley only seemed interested in playing with a duck. Then I found the duck's head was missing Seems like he bit off the duck's head. When I went to ask him about it, the little one even growled at me - quite the temper this little one has Gradually Harley went from being afraid to get in at first, to now swimming very steadily. This must be real dog-paddle swimming Guess the two little ones are really worn out today - they fell into deep sleep as soon as we got home Slept until dark with no sign of waking up, guess we'll skip dinner tonight Day 72, lately I've noticed Harley becoming more and more Husky-like, fighting with Orange every day Looking at his actions below makes me even more certain he's a Husky - he grabbed my slipper and shook it around wildly He even picked up tissues from the trash can, tearing them up and making a mess everywhere Day 75, since taking the two little ones to the pool last time, now they want to get in whenever they see water Harley even has a warm-up routine before getting in the water, and wants to keep swimming after swimming, never getting enough The two little ones were competing for things in the water. Harley didn't see it and turned back to look for his lotus flower Little did he know big brother had already gotten the lotus flower and successfully made it to shore. Indeed, opportunities are for dogs with good eyesight After playing in the water enough, they dried themselves off on the lawn. After getting out of the water they started doing parkour The two little ones were having so much fun. Harley wanted his brother to watch his performance but ended up slipping Orange just watched Harley running back and forth beside him. Orange didn't want to pay attention to Harley, and after running Harley went to the riverside again 200 days now. The Harley who used to sleep hugging his teddy bear has grown up In the blink of an eye Harley is almost one year old. Now Harley has really grown up and knows how to take care of his younger siblings When Harley was little, he was often bullied by big brother Orange, even had his teddy friend torn apart, couldn't fight back, and couldn't sleep from sadness Now Harley is almost as big as his big brother, and dares to go head-to-head with him. Sometimes he even tries to steal big brother's food Harley is now the biggest eater in the house with the largest appetite. Every time I open the dog food, Harley is definitely the first one there As Harley gets bigger, his Husky genes become more and more obvious - very stubborn, often doing silly things that make you laugh and cry Though sometimes silly and clumsy, as long as Harley is happy and joyful that's what matters I feel like the stray dog mom I recently adopted gave birth to a little Lena bear No wonder Harley loves playing with this little one so much - this dog really looks like a teddy bear Looking at Harley playing with the dog, it's just like Harley is a mom playing with his own child Seeing Harley getting along so well with the other dogs at home makes me feel relieved Day 223, now Harley is like this dog's mommy, playing with him every day Harley is so playful now. He wanted the dog to play on the bed, but the dog couldn't get up. When he called him to jump down, he hit the bed When the dog couldn't get up he still insisted on making him get up, so the two little ones just started playing down below They really play well together. Later I lifted the dog up to play with Harley, and the two little ones started play-fighting Clearly Harley is intentionally going easy on his little brother and willing to play along The little brother pressed down Harley's head, so Harley tried to kick him with his back legs, but his legs weren't long enough War over, probably because Harley got tired and didn't want to play anymore. The little brother followed Harley as he walked away Now both little ones are resting. Harley is lying on the bed watching me, and little brother is sleeping below Harley Day 280, today we're planning to take the little ones to see the ocean A family should be complete together. Mom won't forget them when traveling. By evening Harley was still full of energy After another half hour, Harley seemed about to give in, and soon fell asleep lying down After a night of long journey, we finally reached the seaside. The little ones ran, each faster than the other This is my first time taking Harley to see the ocean, Orange's first time too. Don't know if they'll like the sea Harley tasted the seawater, seemed a bit salty and shook his head. Orange also came over to taste Later the two little ones started running happily along the beach. Harley would even dig in the sand. We also witnessed a newlywed couple When I saw the two little ones running far, I would call them back. Look at their matching little steps It's been a year since adopting Harley. He's grown up now but still stays with his teddy bear every day Since I don't know his birthday, I decided to make it the day I adopted him Today I prepared a small cake for Harley, along with his favorite snacks. Harley was so happy, wanting to try each one While Harley ate, Orange watched from the side, turning his head to ease the awkwardness Because it's Harley's birthday, I also invited several of Harley's good friends to join. Now the house is lively with many dogs who used to play with Harley Let's all wish Harley happy birthday and happiness every day. Then we started sharing Harley's little cake Day 400, when I have time I still often take Harley and the others out to play The two little ones ignore people once they're out playing. I called them for ages but they didn't respond The sun came out, took them for a walk in the park, and in the afternoon I took them to a swimming party Harley was having so much fun in the pool, only willing to come out after playing for a long time. Whenever I came to the side to look, Orange would swim over We even had a water fight with Orange. The little one seemed a bit scared. I threw the ball out for Harley to fetch But Harley wouldn't go, and Orange immediately rushed out when he saw it. There were many dogs here too. In the afternoon we changed to another place for gathering Here Harley and Orange could meet many new friends. Every time Orange saw me throw something he would be the first to fetch it In the evening we saw some stray dogs, so I stopped to feed them some food We've played all day today, but the two little ones still want to wrestle when they get home - such abundant energy Seeing the two little ones happy together makes me smile unconsciously Thank you for watching, please don't forget to like, favorite and subscribe. Your support will be our greatest motivation to keep going