(slow orchestra music) (man speaking German - [Voiceover] As a Amersfoort Infirmary, documents as I I once had as a Journalist for the Resistance The Netherlands of turned upside down by Friends became turned into spies. And the cost of patriotism exceeded our worst nightmares. (gunshot in the distance) (suspenseful music) - [Voiceover] Four years earlier I had been a Physics student at Delft University. What started one peaceful as an innocent sprinkling of decent, burst into against the ever of Nazi Socialism. - Hans, Miece, this is - Kara, good to meet you, we've heard so much about you. - Careful Hank, you'll hurt him. - Hans, I want to I know a lot of people. - No, better you and Your mother's for skipping school you know your teacher- - The Resistance can't - Shh. - Never, never say that word. - Psst. - What is Pete doing here? - I don't know. - [Nazi soldier] - Why is everything with the Germans? - What's going on? - Jewish professors be allowed to teach here. - Why? - Because, Jews Jews are not as evolved - If I remember failed you last term. (snickering) - Today, enemies have been removed from at this university. Already a few among a rally of protest. Let me warn you, put on trains to work camps. This university stands and that's exactly Frans Van Hassalt, a word - Come. - I need you to unify You're one of them, for the sake of future careers, I in a symbolic gesture. - A symbolic gesture. - [Nazi] An oft of one thing. Oh, this'll bring out the They create unity, - This isn't out of I don't think that I can- - Oh, I am sure you can, Frans. Your younger sister Resistance literature In fact, when I searched few hours ago, we found matching the font of this - Please, she's only 12. - No problem, Frans. My men love 12 year old girls. Distribution of Resistance Treason, automatic To show my goodwill, power right now to Simply persuade the and your sister is free. For, as the will of so goes the will of the nation. We, German and Dutch have come to an understanding, which is for the good of all. Listen to your own Frans Van Hassent, who - It was once wisely of the students will of the nation. Stand with me today, no This oath offers and his kingdom on Earth. My allegiance is to (shouting in German) - Move, get out of the way! - Get him into the truck, - You're crazy, this - Not anymore, Hans hurry! (suspenseful music) (truck starting) (crowd commotion) (gunshots) - Don't worry, you'll be Attie? - Face forward and 45 West Estrada, four o'clock. Break off, now. (speaking in German) (gun shots) (thud) - Hans, what are you doing here? - They're building a student resistance. Top secret. - Then why in the world - [Mama] You can't the street's under surveillance. Talk to him Adrian. - It's OK. You'll be protected by where ever you go. (whistle) - Martain? - Hey Hans! - [Pete] Grab it, you're now part We've gotta get you into hiding until we get false papers. Do you have a place to stay? - I can stay with my parents' - Great, I'll send that you're safe. - I know the ten Booms, - Good. Here, signing up bonus. - No way, I couldn't! - I know, rarer Don't worry, we took stole it from our allies. - Save it for when - I love her very it will last that long. - Well then, it's settled, But Hans, no turning (bicycle bell) - [Pete] Did you find - Yes but, now you must help us. We need your to help us with our Jews. - Our Jews? - We're overwhelmed, Pete. More and more of into fewer and - Attie, I'm fighting out of the Netherlands, I can't focus on the Jews right now. Besides, what about in the Netherlands? - First Jews, then - Yes, and the mentally all the sermons too. - Well then you should come for the Christians no one left to protest. - OK, I'll talk to your hopes up, OK? - Oh thank you, thank you! - Ah, ladies and gathering here today, to witness Pete Harter join in holy matrimony. - You should be so lucky! - [Hans] Pete and Attie when I joined the Resistance. I had no idea they would become my family overnight. I was the first at the home of Corrie ten Boom, a Dutch watchmaker who the home above her shop Jews and members of the - Carl, I just finished - Thank you Corrie. I can't pay. - Nonsense. - Bless you, and thank you. - [Hans] Confined to my first duties were motivational leaflets underground army, ever increasing our occupiers. My longing to join the ten Boom home My only solace was Miece whom I couldn't When the day of my first I had no idea my would be what it was. - Useless, these carbons How am I supposed to do this job if I don't have - Spine hulls, don't invade a country, you full of Resistance materials. What's this? - My journal. - What's it about, by Hans Poley, sounds riveting. - Hans is a Resistance What you type can - Tell you what, typewriter and send Start, Dear Adolf. - Comedian. Oh, this is humiliating. - Stand still or the - Which would draw ugly legs of yours. - Those ugly legs until he gets his new ID papers. - Stand still, Hans. - Yes, do stand still, dear. - You keep it up with the handbag! This thing's pretty heavy. - Papa needs you, Betsy. Your delivery to Dr. necessary, you'll recognize him. He's the professor at Delft. Say nothing, just - Going stir crazy here - And now you are let's have a look at you! (laughs) - Six months cooped I just want to see some action. - I'm sorry, I know to be wearing a dress. - Thanks. - Without a matching handbag. (laughs) (church bells) - [Hans] Doctor Abrams? (distant music) Doctor Abrams, are you here? Doctor A- (birds taking off) (man speaking German) - [male] Shh, Nazis (men speaking German) - Package. Take the scenic road blocks on this Nice dress! Your papers, and As of now you're Hans pastor of the Dutch that gives you freedom so no more dress disguises, huh? One little problem, it So grow some hair on that - Thank you, thank you. - One other thing, if - I know. - Find somewhere safe - What about Doctor Abrams? - He was arrested this morning. - Friends, I am our newest guest, he Synagogue- - Just don't try Would be a waste of your time. The food is Kosher? - I'm afraid, everything in this - These are bad times, times, and in times feeds his people For Madam, I will eat your food, with pleasure and (cat screams) What the devil was that! - Actually, that - Is she Kosher to we have a food shortage? (gasp) - Jewish humor. (laughs) Well she definitely (laughs) - With respect a strange place We don't have time for tolerate us hemorrhaging Jews. - On the contrary, gentlemen. A game is exactly This way, gentlemen. (rats scattering) - Let me guess, there's packaged in the crates, - How much do you Well, in today's game, for the Jews and their Imagine this space is Its buildings, the crates. At first glance, the but there are certain that are predictable Notice how easy they their next hiding their comrades are, hiding. By our watching them phone calls, they always The more they run, the more The more rats, the the more they begin to More Jews, less space, more- - Panic. - Excellent, gentlemen, (rats scattering) (thud) Game over. - [Attie] You're Yes, that's perfect, here, Nice job! - What are you making there? - OK, here, now make your straw so it's hidden. - I said, what are You trying to trap (laughter) - [Hattie] Ruta, help him finish making the animal trap, (laughter) He is my miracle child. I was at the train They were loading at the end of the train, chaos he runs towards around my legs, and I nod to the soldier. They load the others, and I have a son, - What happened to his mother? - Work camp. - Meffey, that's an - It's short for Mephibosheth. - Oh, big name for - Oh, speaking of names, these are all the to find homes for. - [Peter] It's a long list. - I know. - Now, why does that (laughs) - I love tulips! - Uh huh. Ah, sweet tulip. - You're so generous! - So we can remember, - Oh, my hero! (laughs) - Actually, there will needing a home after this war. - Please, Ucey, the dishes away. - Oh Corrie, would you - Today is Sunday, washing dishes and Sabbath yesterday. (laughs) - Yes indeed. But, does it not say in - The men who will not - No, that wasn't exactly - I'm sorry, Just for tonight, - This is Amsterdam The Nazis must be we're having on watches! Forgive me, but I your Jews with comes into shop! - I believe as long as in the violence, the And our Jews will be - Work camps, you still They are death camps, In here He promises ever Jew, so pull your before they get chopped off! (crying and footsteps) - [Corrie] I'll take - Couldn't sleep? Hey, you're not upset the chores, are you? - I think your excuses Wish I had them living with my parents. (laughs) - Hans, you're a smart boy. They told me you're So what's a smart with a bunch of people who - Like put themselves people they don't even know? Total strangers? And exactly what did generous gift of sacrifice? - You are a smart boy. You're so smart, that sit out this war, you that you have a real future. You could have it still. So what persuaded you - First it was easy Not care beyond Then I met the suffering. One can't look into the hear their pain and When I saw the innocent I felt compelled to - In spite of that you could lose your own life. - I want to follow total strangers, even He stood in the gap upon himself. - Your religion really does mean so much to you, doesn't it? - Actually, the Christian It's a Revolution, against the kingdom of darkness. (laughs) - Well, my revolutionary what a joy it is to you are so foolish as to - Better to be called a than applauded for Besides, the Nazis what side we would choose. - And why's that? - My master was (laughs) - Good night. - Good night. - You know Corrie, they're going to say men and armies. But I will testify girls and boys who and became exalted. What is this? - A dish towel. Since you seem to be I thought the two of you See you in the kitchen. - And those that exalted - [Hans] During the Resistence, and Seminarian Hans church to church, in our cause. It was on one such ran into an old restoration by the church. - Hey Chris, what - Personal, been I don't think they - Then come in with me, and then you can say your piece. (door opens) - [man] Hans Poley? - Yes. - Sirs, train loads of Jews pass your church every for help from their cattle cars. - We're a church board Poley, not the railroad commission. - [middle board member] we can do about what - You are responsible to stop the slaughter! - Do you know anything - Please, I was a teenager was in confidence. She is now my wife. - Can we please not distract - These young men moral issue that should - A moral issue, expelled from the church - Please stick to the to talk about the - How dare you - I dare? You are meant to be - Paul, in his clearly stated- - It is a sin to disobey I think you'll find it that slaughtering - You gave up the - Your Christianity makes - Chris, I know you're hurting, but that wasn't a true faith. Don't bunch us all together. Most Dutch churches are I'll see you later. - Trust me, you will. - [Corrie] Glad I wasn't - [male] Did the Gestapo come? - They were just soldiers. - Did they ask you - Thankfully, no. - I'm so torn as to what to say! God says to never truthful if asked! - Wait a minute, thankfully no? You're not saying that if you were sheltering betrayed your Jews? You would have betrayed your mouth from being - Please Eusi, sit - Talk about it, human lives here, and - Shh, people in the - She was only saying that - Surely, as a Jew, you know the ninth commandment, bear false witness. - Children, please. The ultimate law is to Not that of man. - Exactly! - Have you ever really afraid, No, of course you haven't. You weren't in that the people chose rather than relive the horror of returning to lie, I would steal, to save those lives! - Well, that is where - Really, did not the your messiah, the spies in Jericho? The mother of Moses, the lie to save the Hebrew babies? And what does the Bible by God, beware of you it is a dangerous pursuit. - Eusi, they are only I understand you're show the ten Booms some respect. They are, after all, - Corrie and Bitsy, you lie to the Germans every day. You have stolen ration boards, you have a You have forged the place, how do you Look, all I'm asking just apply those simple save the lives of us Yids. I must have your answer now. - Today we vow to be Whatever befouls you, may - You wear that in public? (crying) (crying) - [Hans] You must give him Saving lives is It's time we turned this Corrie's room has been chosen to build a false wall, that she called The Angel's Den. We have also established and routines for for the underground our precious human cargo. The importance of become more apparent increased their Dutch homes. (whistle blows) - Shh, stay together. (speaking German) - God's mistakes. - There are no mistakes. - Shut up, save the - [Boris] Hattie, what do - Every good deed - She teaches these Aunt Corrie every understand a word of it. - These creatures our society from greatness. But, that can be remedied. - No, their lives- - Drain our resources. - [Hattie] Sir. - Oh, now I'm Sir, huh? - [Hattie] Please, he's deaf. - And so soft, nothing Look, map of Germany? - Please, I beg you. - From its northern My, my, our little bunny What's his name, or I'll kill him - Mephibosheth. (laughs) - Just keeps getting Mephibosheth, that's whom nobody loved. - Whom nobody loved. (laughs) And what is this Jew doing mixed with Aryan children? - It isn't his fault, children together for a day trip. - I want papers on every one of these children, now. - But... No, Boris, please. - Boris please, Unlike when I was attempts to get your - What, that was- - Looks like I have it now. - No, I noticed you, Boris. - You would've gone out with me? - Goodness Boris, who wouldn't want to go out with you! - No, you didn't want to go out- - Heavens yes, I knew didn't I? I don't know how to - Oh you will, don't worry. - And Mephibosheth? - He'll be fine. - OK, let's go, this - Tell me I'm not dreaming. - How I have missed you. Hans, what's that? - I promise, I just And brought caravans and - Hans, please don't joke. - Please don't tell Aunt Corrie. - Plenty of time for Remember Hans, angels They are in it, even when I am not, watching. Everything, you understand? Eusi didn't do don't you help me downstairs. - I'm sorry Aunt Corrie, but I'm meeting someone, I'm I promise to do - Something tells the last time I do - [Hans] After what and the children my involvement with the Peter put me in charge of local Nazi officials. Including their Colonel Van Lamen. Corrie's army, made up of mostly inexperienced began to provide a to Hitler's occupying escape routes, and sending word - Every day at 1:15, - Twenty minutes from now? - In five minutes we have - Are you sure this is correct? - Can I give you a light? - I'll take that light now. Mein Kampf, we'll have our own book burning after the war. Move your Jews, we have been discovered and They're planning a citywide raid on Saturday, Sabbath. (speaking German) (suspenseful music) - [brown-haired doing here? - I'm returning documents. - You need a pass to - Yes of course, go - He's in the hag until Monday. - Well, lucky for you. What's your name? - Let me see your pass. - That's a funny name. - Stop, guard! - [Hans] By the fall the Resistance were and arrested on a daily basis. Trusting one another, we could no longer afford. (gun shot) Aunt Corrie's watch shop in our race to keep our precious human cargo alive. I have noticed that on a mission, Aunt as if we were her own children. One of our guests, at the thought of being Then, she told me a her father's suicide, of her mother being buried alive by the Germans. - When they buried I saw her mouth move as the dirt was covering her face. - I didn't realize claustrophobia until daily drill became a - [Corrie] 54 fall behind! - Oh I can't. - Well, you must, Maddie. (buzzing) (Maddie panicking) - No, no, no, no, no, (mumbling) - One is caught we all die! (crying) (footsteps) (muffled crying) - Shh! - [Hans] We had survived with Hitler's henchmen, daily threat of discovery But, as the holidays our celebrations took form of entertainment - As the darkness, (laughter) - [Peter] Sorry, may we which is our only hope! - Tonight we do (camera flashes) - Hey Hans, Hattie - Congratulations. - Some bad news, there's The Admiral wants him uncovered, it's top priority. Assemble the whole team. - Hans, what are you doing here? - I have a job, but news from Britain radio was out. - I'll tell your Adrie, Hans is here. - [Father] What, he It's too dangerous for it. (static) (knock at the door) (door opens) (speaking German) - Where is your son Hans? - I don't know. - Do not insult my - He hasn't been here. A man name Clowder was he left three weeks ago. Here look, it is in I can show you, I watched him. And I would have turned the slightest amount of I am a loyal member of - I know you are, Adrian. I've seen you at our son returns- - I will hold him for our (speaks in German) (speaking in German) - Hans- - Hans, by the angels. - (speaks in German) (door opens and shuts) - Pete, I need you safe house tonight, They took everyone right before I - How's Catarina, her in church lately. - Something's wrong. - Just hold the the trigger's set - Hank, you set it. Leo, watch out for the trucks. When they hit the mark So you came right here. - Yes! - So how did you know that they took them to legisthan? - Everyone knows. - This won't pull - Well why not? - These blasts are far too small in this alignment to It'll make a lot of noise, but the bridge will be unaffected. - It'll blow! - The stability those be stable, or most introcellular - Hans, shall I call the Germans and ask them to wait? - OK, sorry, these They're designed to ignite the dynamite. It'll make a loud of explosives, it - God's sake, Pete, you'll school kid over me? I was part of the - Yeah, but your both failed last month. - You did bad explosives. - When I was a kid I - Give me some - Where do you think (gun cocks) - With this curfew, at home right now, favorite chair, Lars, if your dear little old friend, I will through that thick Do you understand? Matayus, go check if - Wait! (crying) - You would have in our hiding places! - They've taken my what they'll do to her! - What do you think to our friends and our family? Did you not think about that? What have they promised you? - They're taking her and they'd like me to of a Resistance for them to watch. - The Ravenhill - Did you tell them - No, I swear! - OK, shut up! Five minutes, your from the Ravenhill transport. - How? - Go back to the the name and address - Rolf is one of us! - Rolf is a double agent, he was uncovered weeks ago. Just give them their know that you're aware And remember, we have your - Forgive me. - You should've told me. Can you fix it? - Detonated and torn time to fix it. - So what are we gonna do? - The fuse, it control the timing, to the very last second. - So? - It's dangerous. I cannot predict exactly - Whatever happened blow up the bridge - That's what you tell How did you know we - The windmill, one and the lamp's on, that tells us that we've been compromised. - Well how did you - There's only two about this mission, him or you. So I took a guess. - Good guess. - OK, ready? - Yep. - Now, now! OK, now! (suspenseful music) - Hurry up Hans! Get down! (gun shot) (explosion) (gun fire) - [Pete] Get the I've got the cargo. (gun fire and screams) - Don't do it, drop it! (speaking in German) - [Pete] Shoot him! He's seen your face, shoot him! Hans, hurry! Everyone out, let's go! (gun fire) (running) - Thank you, thank you! - We must move him by sunrise, or he's not gonna make it. - We start moving 'em by twos. Come on, I need - The Germans, what to come and- - Invade our country, We were too civilized to - I don't know how I can't wait for things - Normal, this the rest of our lives. - No, this is no way to live. Don't you want to - No, I'm done with that idea. Now, I'm at peace knowing important job that exists. I'm saving lives. Go on, gather everyone to the ten Boom's house. - I better go over Corrie's gonna the extra people - Oh, and Hans, Your faith is strong I saw what you did It's OK, just stronger man than I am. Just don't doubt yourself Rebellion to tyrants - God go with you. - Give my love to - [Hans] After we began amongst our own spiral out of control for (speaking in German) - For goodness sakes and going all night. - The dog's still there. - The dog's always there. We'd be arrested by now (phone rings) - No, no! - Hello? - Hendrick. - I must warm my brother. - Do you have a code? - [Corrie] Yes. - [Hans] Do it. (phone ringing) (someone speaking in German) - They've got Willem. - There's been a massacre in the village of Vooshbogen. They executed 150 (door opens) - Pickwick! - We must get a message Our very existence Willem has been exposed A Dutch policeman just being picked up in the morning. He has the identity of he cannot be captured. You must get there first. (suspenseful music) (knocks on the door) - You must leave now. This minute, they're - He can't leave, we're ah! - Why the rush so What could be so important? - I'm a pastor and I've - Hmm. - Take the boy, he's He's Resistance, take the boy! Ah, no! - You've just traveled of the shadow of I see you're a pastor so doubtless you and his Five Tulip Free Will... - Tulip is credited students, not Tyndale. - Very good. All men need a Messiah, Poley. Do you know what Adolf Lenin, and Joseph communism and fascism, hearts of humanity, - They've all tried - Quite the contrary, studying to be priests. Hitler, Stalin, of Christian seminaries. - Chris? - I am not your the same quest, That is the task called to. - When Adolf rises I'll consider joining up. - Quite the speech for just the messenger boy. - Let me be a If Germany loses this hanged from the same victors, the communists. Thanks to Patriots like you who refuse to see the big picture. - One dropped a and I delivered it. That's all I did. - Who got you involved, Hans? Make it easy on yourself! We'll find out anyways! There are dozens of spill their guts - The groot's wife will - If I tell you, - His name, Hans! - Evan Von Leinhorst. - You do know we are going don't you Mr. Poley? - It's all about choices, Hans. We shall see who chose best. - Hans Poley, I'm so How did you get out? - I gave them Von Leinhorst. - You gave them Von Leinhorst? - It's OK, he was They'll hit a dead end. Besides, the idiots at have already gone They won't be able to verify anything until Monday. - Well, wish me luck, - We could eat it. - Too much, even We'll eat what I can't flush. Guards, guards! Toilet. (knock on door) - [guard] Are you done? - Almost, I'm almost. (door opens) - The pages wouldn't So he said, fish them tap behind the toiled and then flushed pages at a time. It's a miracle, I - Oh, believe. - Why are you laughing? Didn't you hear - I know not, Nedrick. - You know not? - I know not what but I know who holds my future. (door opens) - I'm sure you're The Collector. You studied Physics, Poley. - Theology. - Darwin shows us only but your religious beliefs For a collector, Now, I get to collect soon be an extinct (laughs) Well good bye Poley. I can't be late to - You can't wipe - I have no intention their memory. In fact, I plan on Forever. - Frank, you pick it. - Do you need me to do it. - No really, I've got it. - Hurry up! - Just a few more seconds. - Hurry Frank! - What's taking so long? - I've got it. - Remind me to do a woman's job. We've got five minutes, Cash, coupons, of Resistance, just make a We've gotta be quick. - [female] Check these files. - Operation Rabbit. Rabbit, Attie. - What is it, Pete? - Operation Rabbit Hunt? - Look at all these coupons. I can finally afford to - You'd have to bathe - You didn't seem squeezed behind the wall - That wasn't my choice, - OK guys, you can date - There's a wall - How did you get that? - The war has a few trade secrets. - Safe cracking? - Picking locks, a woman's work is never done. - Shh. He's gonna be back soon. - He might not. - Uh, I don't think he in this weather without Quick, clear get out of here. - The money, Pete! - No time. - Just 30 more seconds! (door opens) - Quick, out the window, go! Leave it! (footsteps) (door opens) (door shuts) - Let's clean him out. Lists, ration cards, everything. (train moving) - [Hans] Dearest you have heard about The God who grips me in I am safe and alive. Continue to pray we will again be together. And above all things, hope. Your love, Hans. - There's been no little help from the tashe. Friends and family are turning on each other daily, Why do we bother? - Didn't you hear, they're Perhaps even give us medals. - If we live long - Frank, come here. - Senior Grade Scout Wow, thanks Queen Wilhelmina. - Didn't you hear, has some budget cuts this year. - Yeah. - We're here. Pickwick needs these documents, so let's hurry, yeah? - (truck engines running) - We've been compromised, (suspenseful music) - Frank, run! Run Frank! (thud) (crying) - Oh no, no! - I don't have much time. We've heard about the - A hundred and fifty civilians. - Half were woman and children. - Should we pull back? We're not the ones for our operation. - Tell that to Frank! - A hundred and died 'cause of a botched - On a Nazi General! - We are somewhat guilty at every execution woman and children! We with our bombs, bloody leaflet. This little bullet, and women, Hans's a hundred women and children! - Stop! I am proud of all of served with all of you. But you're free to your conscious demands. But know this, my then who? We don't pull back. We redouble our snake's head off Yes? - [All] Yes. - It's there, give us a report. - We've lost our contacts Both were executed - Then we'll break in. - What about the - Yes! - Cleaned out, Von - Last weekend? What would he want - It's in the documents we found at the Gestapo headquarters. - It's scheduled at the orphanage. - Special directive - They're going to shoot kids! - It's a Jewish rabbit hunt. - Well, sunrise is take two just to get there! - And we have no them, just bikes! - We'll steal cars if old truck down there - Rusty, hasn't run in years. - Attie's uncle runs a - Well then he's hired, Nobody's gonna touch Come on everybody, (train whistle) - [Hans] There are what it felt like being Amersfoort Concentration Camp. My mind was awash of Resistance reports I impending, unmentionable fate. (thud) - [Attie] Hello? - Attie, listen carefully. You need to round and get them to the back road. - [Attie] Boris is here. - Boris is there? - So, what is it honey? - My mother. Where are we supposed we have no where to go. And what are we supposed - They're coming - No, no. - [Peter] Just stay Just get the children - [Attie] OK. - And Attie, I love you. - [Attie] I love you too. - Boris, I'm very tired. - So, I thought we All those other I chose you, remember? - And I'm so glad neglect the children. - You will be the officer when this is all over. - Pete, long time no see! Where'd you get that Nazi bike? - Jerry, Boris has Attie! - Please, right now I've - Just one kiss, just one. I'll come with you, some dark corners. - Fine, but some of the children have been vomiting lately, and you don't see it Quite a mess. - Fine, I'll wait, (vehicle pulling up outside) - [Hattie] Go to this side. - [Boris] Pete, Pete Hartog? I said Pete Hartog! - You must be Boris! - [Pete] Looking for me? (thud) How's it looking? - Pray for a miracle. - Ruta's missing, she was - I'll go find that everyone gets on the truck. - I love you, hurry back! - I love you too. - Come here baby. - Ruta! Ruta? - OK, go to the back. - [Pete] Ruta. (speaking in German) (yelling in German) - Where's Pete? - He stayed behind to find Ruta. - My God. (suspenseful music) (fighting) - Brave man, coming here (gun shot and thud) - That was for Frank. - Hey Pickwick, ah! (orders in German) - Alas, name. - Pete Hartog. - Thank you. - The soup is swell, - You have to dig deepest places there's - So, what do you bottom of your soup? - My faith. If I die, I die. I'll close my eyes to an eternity without prisons. Without cruelty. And without spool for soup. Hand me that toilet paper. Think I'll write a letter. (gun shots) - [doctor] Hans, come. You have viral Tuberculosis. You're a danger Show this to the stop you, they into the population, rejecting Nazi rule. - Why me? - You probably don't came to my house Big white house, on - And a lake. - You warned us. My wife is a Jew. Thanks to you, alive dear children in Switzerland. Now, I have other - But, what will they do to you? - Thank you, Hans Poley. (typing on typewriter) - [guard] Halt! Go. - Never did thank you Isn't it great to love any man who would lay down - If only there was - But He has already saved us. - This is not the end. It's just the beginning. (laughing) - Oh, Pete's coming moving out, they're Scared the allies Look at this, it fits perfectly. It's my mother's wedding dress. (door opens) Pickwick, come in! - [Pete] My dear, man disposes, that is and I am glad. For now, I have nothing can separate I have asked the Lord We have to put our it is all peace. It is a treasure to be with Him. I cannot offer him But the Lord has Though our sins were He will make them I thank you for everything. For what you have given Be strong. (gun fire) - No, he's coming ready for the wedding. We're going to dance. - Attie. (slow-paced music) [ Hans] Upon my the hiding place, had spent with so It was there that I discovered, for the first time, timetables I had kept had been instrumental in so many Resistance operations. (gun shot) Many of the operations had been carefully orchestrated I thought had been - [Adrian] Your journal When you joined the confident that I how bright my little boy was. Double checking every detail. Toys always in the proper Pencils in a neat Details. If I was to trust it was going to be you, Hans. - Dad, I didn't know. - It was to protect you! - [Hans] Surviving lives had been lost, didn't leave me for All that remained was an empty shell of our lives. By a miracle, the The enemy in the Resisted, not by a but a brave few, in the face of evil, Fueled by faith and hope. (slow-paced orchestra music)