Say Jack, come take a look. What's the matter ? It would be better You realize ? It must be funny to see that. Maybe we could take it, Why don't you try then? I would be surprised if it was very easy. And then the idea of finding myself hanging from the In my opinion it should not be It would be enough to surprise them Go back inside. Fast ! Well what happened? We had to do We couldn't cross the river, - All right, unload the gold. Get me out! Hurry up ! Open! Help ! You don't have to stay there! Hold the keys, come quickly and open the door! The low ! Come help us! - What is happening ? Call the Sheriff! Fast ! Woody, over here! Woody! don't let me die Fast ! Benson, Detch, come with me. You two too! Go quickly ! If we take them out, We're not going to let them roast alive. I can not do anything about it. We have order Come over here, you idiot! Come lend a hand Take off! You'll see, I'll open it! Come on, go, Woody! Have you seen the sheriff? No, I haven't seen it, but I guess it So what are you waiting for? Take care of the gold! Wait, if we go that way, Let's go there! Hurry up ! Come, quickly! Chuck Moll! Come! You know me ? Speak, I beg you! Come on, talk! Chuck Moll... Chuck Moll... Chuck Moll don't stay here, Don't worry, you'll end well Over there ! There are six who have We must catch them at all costs. I am - You mustn't let them loose! Calm. Listen to me ! But I must gather I need volunteers. Volunteers ? No, that's not our role, Sheriff! It is $100 to whoever brings back an escapee. Alive or dead? Alive ! Don't forget that even them Those crooks... They would do anything... For money ! Santiago, why don't we No, we are waiting for Hondo! There's $100,000 here. And half, it is he who keeps them. It's not fair. He is the one who organized the coup. That does not prevent us from having What does it mean ? than half, I don't like guys You are a dirty traitor! Nice job, Santiago. I was convinced that you would succeed. I must say that your plan - Did you lose any men? Come on, share. Here is your part. With this one more, Better get out of here. Come on, see you soon Tom. And if you still need Santiago, Why did you do that ? Why ? Because I didn't need you anymore. Collect the gold! Just like the castaway who I desire Lord I will rebuild your temple. Almighty God. That's enough Woody, you'll rebuild it Leave him alone, Why are you staring at the flames Looks like there's an answer Yes, that sounds like an answer. Only I am unable But you're sure you remember You must know where you were from when I know where he came from. When he arrived, I was already in jail. So what ? Where was he coming from ? No, I won't tell you. Why ? Because I know Hondo, if he came with us, I know this reason. What is it about ? Golden ! of the one who was And you, Hondo, you thought thanks to him, Because whoever recognized you, Chuck Moll, I don't care about this gold and since you know it, Dodge City. He told me that you were coming I want half of it. Half of what, fool? Guys I don't have any You won't be going back, don't worry. Get out of there! I don't wanna go back If you want to listen to me, we'll get out of this. Get out of there right away. Fear nothing, Alright, let's go. Put away the guns. Let's go! Let's go to the other side! Let them run a little longer. It will be easier to take them Where's Chuck? Catch this! There's already one less. The knife ! Give it to me. Woody! - Wait for us, don't move from there. No, don't touch it! This gold is mine. No, tell them to give it to me. What gold are you talking about? You answer yes! Bank gold. 100000. Well, where is he? Speak ! Where is this gold? In Dodge City. That way at least we know which side Yes, but I have not at all Look ! There's a relay post over there. We will be able to eat. roast meat, That's all he It's up to you to speak. Are you accepting another player? Yes, provided he has money. And no betting limit, okay? Menu ? A. - And you ? Three. And two. $5. Your $5 with 20 more. Here, I add 20. A fifth. A full to the king. Here is. There was a guy in Valdor I believe, Yes, I have heard of it. I pass. - And you ? $5 to continue. Two cards. - A. I am served. $5. Your $5 plus 50. It's good for me. Your 50 plus $100. Color. You're a damn cheater! Do you have proof? You don't get angry. There's only one game we can that of the highest card. The highest card, okay. For all the money on the table. Yes. Valet ! You're out of luck! Woody, did you see that? - Who will give way? But there he is dealing with John Caldwell. Imbecile! You will be silent. You will see that one day The lion has just measured itself against the tiger. And the tiger retreated One day or another, Damn Caldwell. I'll make him pay for all this To my feet ! It won't be that easy. You should beware There is no need to say, it's still the best And yet he is over 50 years old. Whereas you, you never We can succeed in killing Caldwell, but there is only one surprise him and shoot him from behind. Trust me, it's the only way. I guess your hatred for Caldwell does Come on, smile Sheila. Every time I look at you Too bad we're brothers and sisters. Yes, not bad at all. You should put new targets. And now shoot without holding Remember that it is also important It seems impossible, a normal shooter to hit than the coin we throw away Let's be patient. You know, they are rare those Chuck Moll failed - Yes, he was good at doing it. It was impossible to beat him. Say I made it You were talking to me Alan? Yes, I was talking to you, but it doesn't matter. It was pointless. You will never achieve Please listen to Alan! No, you have to listen! It's time to think about living The situation with the Hondos becomes all What are you doing ? You stay there my dear big brother. So you haven't realized yet? Please change the subject. It's touching to see how much you It's ridiculous. Tell yourself that he is dead and that he But I'm still very much alive, I beg your pardon Alan. Don't come any closer, it's better. Chuck, this must have a funny effect on you I just feel like And you, how come It was better to rot there than You better have been hanged. Imbecile! What are we doing ? Let's go have a drink. No, I'll take a look. Ladies and gentlemen, here the fight against man Here is this athlete Do you want to fight? I am pleased to inform you that if one with one step, he will receive Just give So make up your mind, gentlemen, for $2, Go ahead ! What are you waiting for? Alright, I want to go. If there are amateurs. Make up your mind Sir makes up his mind. Cheer ! I'm sure you will be an adversary to - Be careful! Get ready. Ready ? Go for it ! Go Woody! You will have it ! Go ahead ! Go ahead ! Go Woody! Shoot again! You got it ! Not bad this place. I knew a guy from here. If I remember correctly, If you want to know, As for the Chuck Moll in question, Don't let yourself down. The Lord will give you strength. First aid equipment. For me, there is no problem. In the Yes you see, It's not the first time You're not very original say! You're not bad though And I have the idea I'm sure I know you. No, but you know, it doesn't change anything. Say you, let's see where you put Leave your revolver. Some are looking for a fight. They will be served. It was just a little joke. Yes. I assure you. You don't have to blame him. My friend likes to joke. Sam, what got into you? Strange all that. Yes indeed, it is strange. Sylver, arrange for How come you don't remember anything Is your name Chuck Moll? There are Why is this guy scared of me? I tell you it's Chuck Moll. don't talk nonsense, Chuck Moll is dead and buried, Must believe that he was not so Because I saw him more alive Are you really sure it was him? Yes, I recognized it, But him, You think he's dead, right? It's probably a trap He was alone ? There were 3 other types, What do they look like? There is one, it's a kind of Hercules, And the other two, surely And you are sure I already told you. there is something strange A dead man who comes back to life after three years What can he do And what do I know about it? Its good. Hey, that's the one! Lord ! We have come to ask you to do What do you want from me ? - Where do you come from ? Tell me who your friends are and what I don't know. Who are you ? Your name ? Woody. And who is Chuck Moll? I don't know. What are you talking about idiot head? I can tell you that at the insane asylum, In the insane asylum? And that he sent Chuck Moll I tell you that even from that, It doesn't seem true. And so our very dear Chuck Moll In this case, it could Good idea ! Interesting prospect. However, I hope he can What made you believe Say, you're going to wait for me for a while. Nothing found. I looked everywhere, Our man has disappeared. And Woody is also missing. If I had known that I would transform Chuck Moll! You are my son. You recognize me ? God be praised! To say that I thought you had been dead for three years. What's up with you, Chuck Moll? Don't tell me that your brother, Because I am your brother. Tom! And you would be my father? Why this question ? Why this hesitation? I only remember... The last three years. Don't think about it anymore. Let's go home now, you'll see Sheila? - Hondo. It is my family. Here is my Chuck, was with you. you are cordially invited to my table My friend and I, See you tonight. Chuck Moll is alive. He came back. I understand it's a shock. And he lost his memory. Listen to me carefully, Chuck Moll must believe now It is in our common interest. If you betray us And you know, we found him lying You see, he doesn't remember you anymore. She doesn't remember anything. For him, you never existed. Now finish preparing. You'll be down in exactly ten minutes Welcome your brother. Did you understand Sheila? And it absolutely can't No. No thanks. It seems to me that is enough There is something It's not like a family actually. - That's what I said! Let's beware. If you weren't here tonight, I assure you to be invented. I had disappeared. And we thought you were killed Dad, you forget that Chuck Excuse me, it's true, The Caldwells became by force They have huge herds and every day, Only we succeed But I don't know if we can After you disappeared three years ago, they got arrogant About a year ago our brother Jimmy was And it was John Caldwell who killed him. But that, one day he will pay for it! Because we must not forget it. Jimmy was our youngest brother, He had a real adoration for you. He did everything to look like you. When you disappeared, he was sure He went to challenge him in the cemetery, He killed her. Because Jimmy was a teenager. He was killed wanting revenge. I don't remember him at all. It's horrible ! Caldwell is such a good shooter It would take a sharper shooter than him. To be sure, But we are not assassins. I hope you don't want Sheila, come quickly give Chuck a kiss. Sheila, here is a way Welcome Chuck Moll. I'm very happy. Let's go to the table! Sit down my friends. Where are you going ? Try to find Woody! And yes Chuck, that's it. I don't know if you realize how much And you will see my little one, you are going very fast You are lucky to have returned. Woody! Woody! Woody! Shut up ! And your girlfriends Chuck, all the way When you were here, there were several You probably remember It is indeed a reflection of a girl. She thinks of nothing but love. In the mouths of men like you, What happened to you ? Come on, calm down Sheila Listen to me Chuck Moll, we have to It's not an easy matter to settle, I believe you are capable And I wish this time Did you hear? No, but something is happening. Say Dad, can you come for a moment? Excuse me. John had to fuss again! What's the matter ? Did you hear? No, but something is happening! Chuck, honey. Sheila. When we were going to put ourselves they rushed at us. We were all surprised. I'm the only one of the 12 You are all fools! You can't even I told you that you had to look We beat everyone around here, Tom. But this Caldwell is a real demon. Listen to me well John, because I won't tell you again Chuck Moll, honey. Sheila. What's the matter with you ? What's the matter ? But you don't remember My thoughts are confused. I remember you. But it's very vague. I'll help you remember the past. You know, I've always loved you Chuck. I wouldn't want to bore you Chuck, father asks you One more misstep and I'll warn you, They were about twenty. They were commanded by John Caldwell. They fired mercilessly. I saw them leave Decidedly, they believe themselves Cursed coyotes. What do you want to do ? I will kill this man. It was you who told me he was going I'll go, I'll kill him. Do you want me to come with you? No. He doesn't know I'm back. I will take advantage of the element of surprise. Be careful, Otherwise it will quickly take over. What a good prank! We will talk about it for a long time Imbecile! You got played. Be careful, if you make noise, Tell me the truth. You're a thief Both of them. If you're interested in saving Chuck's life, - What about gold? Then you'll have all the gold you want. Caldwell! Caldwell say your prayers, Throw me that gun. It's not so easy to get me otherwise you think Turn around. Without a move! chuck! - No ! Don't kill him! He's your father! It is you who is lying! Chuck, you're a Caldwell. What are you saying ? Yes, it's true. Your mother also has it falls aside Glad you're back again I can not believe it. Those cursed scoundrels! But they will pay dearly No, it's mine now I'll make them pay for that. chuck, you don't remember what We all have to stay united if we want No. I'll take care of it myself. They'll pay for everything, don't worry. You haven't changed Chuck. Come on, don't get carried away. You need to sleep. And you too dad. I feel like he hates me. You are wrong to believe that. Do you see Chuck, You were born before Alan. And I believe that deep down, - Is that the only reason? You don't remember that he He thought you were dead and he left you And then he ran here to call us. But while we were looking for you, And you had disappeared. For me, this story means nothing. Nothing at all. I can't even recognize you. However, there is one thing Tom Hondo! - So the amnesiac! Come repeat it here! Woody! But what an idiot! I swear ! Woody. Tom Hondo! You can't do anything anymore, get out! chuck! Dont shoot. We will leave. You're the strongest, we surrender. Dont shoot. You do not have the right. Chuck Mol, watch out! No ! Hold on, Chuck Moll! I'll tell you everything. It was Tom who engineered it all, I was happy to do No, don't kill him, Chuck. You don't have to kill him, please. Allan! From what I see, you have the skin And you, throw away that gun! You hear And don't be silly! You are crazy Alan! - What do you want ? I thought I did it three years ago, but this time I will not be mistaken. It's time to know who you are. So I'll tell you the truth. He didn't tell you everything. You are wrong to believe But you are my brother. No I regret. I told you, Isn't that true, Alan? You have before you the only The only. You hear ? Tell yourself that I won't tolerate The ranch will be mine And me ? Who am I ? Answer me ! You're just a b****, Chuck. One day, shortly after the war, and abused our mother. And the result is that then you have no rights Everything is mine. You hear ? So do you understand now? No ! - Allan? Stop it, Alan! Caught ! Allan! Allan! Why did you do that ? Why ? You shoot as fast as before. It's you who won. Still, I trained. Allan! Is it true what he said? That I'm not your son. Allan! chuck! You're welcome ! chuck! You're welcome ! Do not go !