(bright retro game music) - [Falcon] The history There's a lot of high points, but, ooh, there are a lot of low points. And while celebrating it's also important to talk about the bad. Without knowledge, history is it not? Hi, folks, it's Falcon. And today on &quot;Gameranx,&quot; 10 of gaming's biggest tragedies. Starting off at number 10, I think we're gonna touch on something that's gonna hit home I mean, the gradual In the mid-2000s, Xbox The Xbox 360 was easily They had a whole slate They basically kickstarted with their summer of arcade promotions, and the third party games were usually the best ones on the console. Even with major issues which, by the way, cost they were riding high. Part of it was that even they did the right thing and fixed everybody's consoles for free. Unlike what Intel is doing with those 13th and 14th They kept players really invested with a solid slate of games and they successfully sold the Now, keep in mind, I'm who loves brands per se. But in this case, what I'm it made sense to trust the Xbox. And then they announced Xbox One. The E3 2013 Xbox Showcase of an absolute disaster. But while it's easy to point to it and say that's where the the rot actually had I mean, they were making leading up to the next console. Remember Kinect? That thing was bar none of that generation. Yeah, the PlayStation but it worked. And, like, you were winning, guys. Did you need to be the Nintendo Wii? It's not, like, they with a specific purpose, and it did that purpose really well and you weren't going to I'm sorry. So, what the Kinect thing did was basically hurt the particularly with hardcore fans. And the loss of that small audience, yeah, it wasn't really what but it was evidence that there was poor The confusing console names, the lack of a killer app, the dearth of marketing. The decline of Xbox didn't It was more like a death Even now with Game Pass as a Xbox has not been able to get And I'm very serious about I love game. I use Game Pass on PC and on Xbox. It doesn't matter. There just isn't something that makes it more than everything else. &quot;Halo&quot; and &quot;Gears&quot; have lost their luster. &quot;Halo&quot; for a lot of reasons, quality being one of them. And while &quot;Gears&quot; is always good, it's a reliably great game. You get a new &quot;Gears,&quot; it's probably gonna be It's just... I mean, at its core, it's the same game. And that's great, but it's not exciting. Now, it's obvious what Game Pass does to benefit the customer. But for Microsoft, it's a little nebulous. They're not meeting They're closing studios for games that they were praising It's all been a pretty big mess. Gotten to the point where it's so bad that people are actually speculating that Microsoft might exit the console business entirely on the Game Pass model exclusively. Maybe they'll keep making Xboxes, but they'll be just branded Maybe none of this will happen. Maybe they'll keep I don't know. It's all just speculation at this point. The thing is, Microsoft isn't going away. They're the ultimate example But the Xbox Division if not the chopping block, then in line for some As Microsoft moves to be chasing trends with the rest of the it's doing it at the expense So it's not absurd to speculate that their new management if it's not profitable enough. We're already seeing signs you don't need an Xbox initiative. It's almost like they're to de-emphasize the Xbox brand for their eventual end Or maybe not. I don't know. Xbox's future as a brand isn't really looking great currently, but that could change. They've changed in the past and they could change in the future, so it's still anyone's game. I'd hate to see Microsoft Competition tends to make and losing one of the major I don't think a monopoly And I do expect Xbox to be They've always got Game but something's gotta change for them to ever get back to And number nine, great to the &quot;Call of Duty&quot; mines. Recently, Activision revealed that literally all of its core studios were working on one And you know what it is. I don't need to say it but I'm gonna say it anyway 'cause it's a list and I kind of have to. It's &quot;Call of Duty.&quot; As of October, 2023, the series has sold over 425 million copies and has generated over $30 billion. It's Activision's cash cow and they're never going to stop milking it as long as people are buying it. So, I mean, is it that big of a surprise? I don't know. But at first, the monster was relatively small. It was made up of a single and they're basically from EA's &quot;Medal of Honor&quot; franchise. Then there was Treyarch, that was swallowed up They were known for &quot;Tony Hawk,&quot; but now they are known for &quot;Black Ops.&quot; But they were responsible for quite a few pretty great games. &quot;Spider-Man 2&quot; for instance, At least they're considered one of the central along with the third studio made specifically for I wanna be your sledgehammer. Ooh, sledgehammer. But many support studios to help with the increasingly absurd yearly releases of these All time Great studios who have been relegated to and becoming all but forgotten. Toys for Bob, the devs including &quot;Skylanders&quot; they worked as a support studio briefly, but managed a spinoff from So, I mean, at least of making games. Other studios, not so lucky, like Beenox, the guys that made some pretty solid &quot;Spider-Man&quot; games. Or High Moon Studios who made the great The biggest tragedy I Raven Software ruled. They were literally FPS game royalty. They made &quot;Heretic,&quot; &quot;Hexen,&quot; &quot;Star Wars Jedi Knight II,&quot; the list goes on. They're really a great developer. And now they're stuck grinding away and making microtransactions or whatever for &quot;Call of Duty Warzone.&quot; It's a travesty that these guys have not made a proper game since 2010. Someone, anyone, like, from the COD mines. It's a fate worse than death. Well, maybe not really. They get salaries and stuff so, and I'm sure they But as a consumer, I like, talented developers and make stuff that they come at the same old same old year after year. You know, kicking around in your hometown, waiting to show you the way, that type of thing. I've seen enough of it. And number eight, the slow The death of physical media has And I'm not gonna tell you like, &quot;Physical media is automatically better.&quot; But I am gonna tell you that has not exactly been great. So, it's kind of only a matter of time before GameStop and Best Buy and all these other avenues just sort of go away. A lot of them have gone away already. It's also just easier and more And with internet speeds it's becoming harder to justify owning games physically anymore. And I do wanna say this. That's a real advantage. It's just you have no control. Like, I can imagine a except for you can store a game and put it in a drawer. And when you put that hard it doesn't like lock you out Well, we can't check in on the servers so we can't play the game. Ah. Still, there are hardcore fans still keeping the format alive. Small online presses are still releasing and most major games are still but it's getting harder and harder to get games that are complete And that's ignoring the many games that just don't get Recently, Capcom put out &quot;Kinitsu-Gami&quot; as a digital-only game. &quot;Allen Wake 2&quot; had no box They recently did a special Interestingly, physical game boxes are becoming luxury items for collectors rather than just regular things consumers have the option Even if you do get physical games, there's a lot of landmines I mentioned this a moment ago, but a lot of even physical games have online-only requirements that render the disc Some games have day one updates that are required for the game to play. A lot of games are only You have to download the Some boxes do not even have discs. They're just a code that you It's stupid. Trying to navigate all these traps makes dealing with physical and it is easier to go digital, which is a shame because, again, there are distinct advantages that, in my opinion, are because how digital has been handled rather than the inherent But still, currently, you cannot unless it is physical, That can be an issue, but At number seven, a live The thing about live service that it seems like every other week, we're hearing about or shutting down permanently, it's still a very when applied correctly. Games like &quot;Final Fantasy &quot;Genshin Impact,&quot; &quot;GTA these are all massive successes. They're live service games. If the audience is there and you're doing something It's very lucrative, which means it's rare But if it does, they're set for life. So many companies saw the massive success of these games enjoyed, and unsurprisingly, wanted The problem is, and this is that there is only so much time in a day. Eventually, the market And that's what happened. Everyone and their mother tried BioWare made &quot;Anthem.&quot; Crystal Dynamics made &quot;The Avengers.&quot; Rocksteady did the &quot;Suicide Squad.&quot; And they all kind of They just thought they could apply a lot of what they already knew to this business model a pretty different They thought, &quot;Ah, we'll We'll stretch it out over seasons, and everybody's gonna love us and they're gonna like have parades for us and we're all gonna marry supermodels, and, yeah, it's gonna be great.&quot; Didn't go that way. The entire lives service push is in hindsight a really Just absolutely tons of effort and money. Tons of effort and money chasing trends that they Instead of innovating with new ideas or publishing risky new publishers took the safest path imaginable into an open coffin. They were trying to make games but they didn't resonate with people. And frankly, the live felt tack tact on and unnecessary. Now live service games are failing so fast that they're getting canceled before they're even coming out. Like Creative Assemblies' Sony's entire live service They lucked into success but everything else has been like &quot;Last of Us Factions 2.&quot; Or it has no chance of which is doing pretty abysmal The live service model isn't dead, but it's increasingly obvious and really like be something that A, meshes with the business model in a way that another game can't. And B, just above and beyond delivers on whatever it's promising. Because just like a fun People don't play games forever. It's gotta be something they Like, &quot;Helldivers&quot; is kind of a rare game where it understands what it needs to be. It has a constantly evolving story, it does something new And most of these games, It's just somebody like, &quot;Ah, let's make a video game. But instead of giving you everything, we'll just spread it out and make people pay for It's stupid. And number six is the rise This might be a little divisive, but I do understand very much the hatred for the old online model There's a lot that doesn't do right. But looking back, it is a little hard not given some of the stuff that we see now. Like, back when games like and &quot;Team Fortress 2&quot; and when they were the biggest the primary way people was through server browsers. Generally, how it worked their own servers and Many games still have this as an option, but most people join automatic Being able to just start a game and immediately jump into but the entire community it's kinda lost. It used to be most were just for screwing around. You didn't have kill-death or win-loss records. There were no dailies to grind Most people were playing Servers were off in their there were custom maps players form friendships, kept out cheaters and bad actors. Even though everyone had a username, it was somehow less So you couldn't get In a lot of games now, other players might as well be bots. You never hear 'em or That's not necessarily bad. When you're just thrown in communicating isn't great. Again, part of the reason that was good was because of what I just described in the community aspect of the server. But really, the best is somebody mumbling to themselves 'cause they forgot to turn the mic off or getting a crying baby or something. But actual human interaction I mean, it's basically not there. When people do talk, you're stuck with obnoxious into the voice until they get banned, which is, you know, not long anymore. There are overly serious tryhards just, you know, barking orders like they're actually in a firefight. Don't get me wrong, there There's plenty of assholes back then. But a lot of the time, it was better. Or at least if there were jerks, it was a whole server of them so you'd learn which servers Now it's just a free-for-all. There's not really any community. It sucks. Like, I'm not saying it wasn't like a boys club back in the day. Not everyone would feel comfortable in participating in that community aspect. But if the alternative is just, like, everyone's an anonymous number and there is no community I think that's definitely a downgrade. At number five, and this one cut me deep. Rockstar abandoning It's probably one of gaming's Rockstar releases this game, it's basically their masterpiece. It's sold insane, and to be frank, it's still doing respectable A lot of people would love All that happened, and Rockstar decides It is 2024 at time of writing, in case you come back to There is still no next leaving the PC version to play the game now with modern visuals. &quot;Red Dead Online&quot; has officially been dead for about two years at this point. They stopped major updates in 2022, but the writing was on the It took less than a year for Rockstar to mostly give up on online. Why would they stop supporting well-reviewed and beloved game? Simple, GTA online is way more profitable and they wanted to move all development over to &quot;Grand Theft Auto VI.&quot; You'd think a studio this massive could have people working on &quot;Red Dead 2&quot; and &quot;GTA VI&quot; at the same time, but apparently not. The reality is, &quot;GTA Online&quot; is basically, like, a hose spigot for money, and &quot;Red Dead Online,&quot; it wasn't. It was a success. Like, with any other developer, it would be a generational hit that they would milk for decades, But it was being compared to &quot;GTA Online.&quot; And in comparison to what's literally one of the most successful it came up short. So no DLC, no &quot;Undead no next gen updates. Hell, they didn't even really bother finishing the online story mode up. Just sort of stops halfway It feels so unlike Rockstar to leave something half finished, but that's what they did Did they really think when it was so obvious the People left because Rockstar's and all the bare bones nature It could have survived but that's just not good The games either have to or they're canceled. Hell, even &quot;GTA V&quot; itself fell victim to the all consuming &quot;GTA Online.&quot; The plan story DLCs were so devs could focus on, GTAO. Let's call it GTAO now. It's a real shame because the more I look back on it, the more I view &quot;Red Dead 2&quot; as a once in a generation kind of game. So to see it just be casually by its own developers, At number four is the death These days, sports games are a genre kind of treated with revulsion and disinterest by the but that was not always the case. It used to be, sports games were thought of just as highly as any other genre. They were an essential and they could be innovative and exciting. Like, they added physics and it got me all like, &quot;Wow, But in all seriousness, come from like really old games, like &quot;MVP Baseball 2005,&quot; Or you can go back even Or hell, like the 16-bit FIFA games. So what happened? Well, two little words, It used to be that the rights were sold on a game by game basis. So a lot of different developers players jerseys, stuff There was still competition in that arena, and that pushes companies At least like think about it this way, &quot;NBA Jam&quot; and NBA, whatever the serious NBA were two completely different things. And obviously, one of them won 'cause I do not even remember But nowadays, the primary aren't even traditional gamers. They don't play a lot of other games, so they're kind of unaware of how consumer unfriendly A lot of players are simply accustomed to mobile games market, so they just accept how absurdly especially in things where microtransactions The regular gaming public has basically given up on these games. When I talk about them in these lists, they either have to do something new and I get like vaguely excited, like what I said about Or I kind of note that Yay! It's sad to see the state Yeah, there are still some good ones that pop up from time to but it feels like the actual good games are getting fewer and fewer, while the bad are getting worse. And number three is Sega's Some old wounds never heal. In the late '80s and a chunk of the '90s, Segas was Nintendo's It was the original console war. And growing up, you were either a Sega kid or a Nintendo kid. If you had rich parents, But in the console war, there really weren't fence sitters. It was us versus them, I was, of course, as you that I'm talking about Their downfall was, by If you were following you probably saw it coming, but it still felt like a seismic shift in the industry as a whole. Sega was the console competitor. But after the Dreamcast which, by the way, frigging awful thing because it was just full of great games. But after that didn't work, and the console was over. Nintendo won, and many of But nowadays, I'm a Even though most of Sega's wounds were self-inflicted, might I add, it's hard to not feel bad The Dreamcast was, and still is, an absolutely legendary console Well, I shouldn't say A lot of great games, more And it also was like the first console with an attachable modem for online play, at least on the level that it was at. But after the flops of in America at least, the Dreamcast just didn't stand a chance. People had been burned too many times. They threw too many consoles out. It was crazy. Basically, the same mistake that ended in, oh, just a massive crash that destroyed the industry. And with the PlayStation for most consumers, the Dreamcast was just People wanted to play it, well, Sega failed to capitalize on the Dreamcast initial sales. To be frank, they were pretty strong, but they took too long to restock and the price of the The PlayStation 2 was cheaper, and it was a proven brand that wasn't waffling all over the place, so everybody kind of went with that. A real shame 'cause I could that were just absolute &quot;Jet Set Radio,&quot; both &quot;Sonic At least they went out on a high note. Moving on to number two, the failed promise of mobile gaming. You know what's weird? When I say portable system, what do you think of? The Game Boy, the Switch, maybe even the Steam Deck? But the thing most people is the phone. A huge portion of the human population has a portable gaming but so few of us think of it that way. At first, it seemed like There was real potential and it could have been the Like, do you remember &quot;Angry Birds&quot; was? There is two &quot;Angry Birds&quot; Good, maybe not, successful though. Unfortunately, it became free to play garbage, nonstop deceptive practice is the worst. That's what it is. It became that super quick. It's nasty. It's an unregulated back ready to flee ship for everything you got. And that's not to say that there are no good games on mobile. There are. But compared to everything else, the amount of actual games on the platform is astoundingly small. It didn't have to be that way either. It could have been a significant market with tons of real games. The problem is, the mobile that premium experiences When &quot;Resident Evil 4&quot; came out on mobile, people scoffed at the $30 price tag, even though it's the It's also a surprisingly good port. It just didn't sell well will not pay those kinds regardless of how good Sure, it's a slightly I'm not gonna pretend it isn't. But that used to be common People would buy simplified that better on consoles, but the convenience of the portable system would give them value. That's not good enough anymore. Not even for games that Once free to play and cheap took over the market. There's just no room for real games. It's essentially two completely There's mobile, and then there's gaming. One is a bunch of glorified slot machines with a 0% chance of payout, and the other games are, you know, fun. It didn't have to be that way. And it's a tragedy that it is. Everyone already has the But if we actually want to we have to go elsewhere. And finally at number one, the 2023 games industry bloodbath. The amount of jobs lost in 2022 and three is mind blowing. Over 9,000 (indistinct) in 2022 and around 11,000 in 2024. The year isn't even over yet. I mean, we are really on a downturn. There's an absurd amount of and it's not one specific Of course, Embracer is These idiots caused the shutdown because they were Their entire business model was based on getting a big investment So when they didn't get that which by the way sounds hilarious, we're gonna buy a bunch of game studios, and then the Saudis That is the dumbest idea I've ever heard. But it wasn't just them. Activision cut jobs. EA cut jobs. Microsoft has made some devastating cuts, including Arkane Austin The list goes on, and it really all sucks. So what happened? Why did so many people lose their jobs even though the industry Well, a lot of the problems are very similar to the where we saw even more cuts. Tech has cumulatively seen in the past few years, which sounds nuts. In comparison, the gaming industry actually kind of got off light. Generally, and I'm talking 'cause I'm not a financial but gaming saw a noticeable COVID spending was up across the board and all these companies decided that spending more on live service games and gaming in general was a great idea, and they started rapidly hiring people. So when you scale like crazy, but you overestimate growth, they had to face reality when That's the general perception, but it's not quite as A lot of these companies were the same companies Of course, the issue was that growth wasn't as high as they'd predicted, and that could affect The reality is these companies chose to chase short-term profits So they fired a lot of There's a reason why didn't see the massive is because their corporate laws make it so the companies can't fire people without an actually good reason. If the US and Europe had it's unlikely they'd be able to justify the vast majority of the during the 2023-2024 period. It sucks so much that so but the real tragedy here is are just walking away from Imagine all that potential, all those cool games some of and we'll never see it. I do have some bonus tragedies for you, which is hilarious to say. Firstly, &quot;Titanfall 2&quot; being Awesome, amazing multiplayer, Should have done way better than it did. Unfortunately, the geniuses at EA and their infinite wisdom between two of the &quot;Battlefield 1&quot; and &quot;Call It didn't come out the These games both came But it was sandwiched between October 28th when &quot;Battlefield 1&quot; came out October 21st and &quot;Call of Duty&quot; came out November 4th. Being sandwiched between these two titans did &quot;Titanfall&quot; no favors. In fact, one could make a pun I don't know what EA was thinking, putting the game out a week and a few days before the next hotly anticipated &quot;Call of Duty&quot; game. It's one of their most baffling business decisions of all time and has screwed &quot;Titanfall And finally, the &quot;Shenmue&quot; Depending on who you are, this entry is either a funny The worst of them all. For the few people who played, &quot;Shenmue 1&quot; was a It eventually got a sequel but there was still so much left to go. According to Yu Suzuki, the series was gonna have 11 chapters, or 16, I don't remember. I think he changed the But in total, &quot;Shenmue&quot; 1 and 2 only covered four out of Years passed and the A lot of fans assumed it would always be. But in a shocking twist, Yu Suzuki launched a back in 2015. Yeah, it might have to be but they could finally conclude the story. They're never gonna get another so now's the opportunity to finally, finally wrap everything up. And it didn't happen. &quot;Shenmue 3&quot; barely moved the plot forward and ended just as inconclusively as ever. So little happened in it And honestly, if they made a fourth game, which is never gonna happen, it could be summarized in &quot;Nothing happens in this game.&quot; Fans waited 18 years to see what happened after the cliffhanger Turns out, mostly a guy talking to people about If this was a stop gap then it would be fine. It's slice of life stuff, and that's what makes But this is the end, and they didn't even try to end things. Like, technically, there but there probably won't be. They even made an anime, they'd at least see the end of but that didn't happen. The show got canceled after a It's like these various &quot;Shenmue&quot; revivals or some big cosmic joke teasing fans with the and cruelly yanking it away. And that's all for today. Leave us a comment. Let us know what you think. If you like this video, click like. If you're not subscribed, We upload brand new videos Best way to see them first So click subscribe, don't forget to enable notifications. And as always, we thank you very much I'm Falcon. You can follow me on We'll see you next time