- Ready? (Mario vocalizing) - Jurassic World Super - You know it's big Fire, a fire on - What's going on Coyote Pack? Welcome to a very special Now you see three giant And I have to send a big for sending us these But before we get into let's talk about dinosaurs. Mario, I told you decked out in dinosaur gear and you did a pretty - Yeah, I'm wearing my I got my dino cap, - I am actually wearing Now we usually review This is actually a for me by a Coyote Pack member and given to me on Today is the first to feature it on camera. - That's awesome. - Yeah. - Absolutely love this shirt and I'm sure at this point that inside these who is now producing for the Jurassic franchise, They have sent us three boxes of Jurassic World For real, it's happening. This is what we're doing. Now people have asked on the Brave Wilderness - Yeah, they're but we cannot unbox an - Really, unless we put inside of a box and unbox it? - Nah, too complicated. - Way too complicated, probably way too dangerous. But Mattel knows how and specifically the And today I'm gonna give you-- - For me? This is a box for me, we've got a third We have no idea what's but we are going to open them up and review these amazing Now what I have here Just a moment of safety guys, if you get a package in the mail and you're going to use the knife safely, make sure that your that you're doing to open Gotta put a safety So if you guys are I'm like a kid on Christmas. - Let's dive into the All right, I'm gonna oh gotta be careful Let me get this. - All right. - Now don't, careful, You don't wanna damage Some of these dinos don't Remember that from the They had Dino Damage? - I remember the Dino Damage. of these new toys that was one of - So what figures did you - Certainly had the T-Rex, Velociraptor was I had the Jeep, I How about you? I had the whole command center. - Oh the command center. - I forgot about that. The command center Yeah, I had pretty much every I feel like a kid again today, getting ready to Okay, you ready? - We're getting this, I Oh, look at this! Oh my gosh, Spinosaurus, yes! Holy cow! Oh my gosh, oh my gosh, look how many are This is crazy. - Okay, let's look at that. So how do we do this? I've never done an unboxing. - I never have either. I don't know how these But oh my gosh, Mattel, for sending us these My hands are shaking right I was afraid this and there were gonna be a Oh my gosh, this is crazy. Okay, I'm just gonna - Okay, go for it. - Spinosaurus, look at that. - Oh, wow, cool. Now this is the Jurassic Maybe you guys didn't know to do is also release in connection with because we want where Jurassic originated from. And in the first three movies, was the main sort of villain And the Legacy Series throws of the Jurassic which as we know, Dude, Spinosaurus, hold it. - That's the real deal, right there. What does he do? - Oh, look at that. Holy cow, let's see, bite up. Oh, bitten by a Spinosaur. Man, that is cool, holy cow. Okay set that guy over there. We gotta kind of plow through and then we'll take a look All right, digging, what do you got in here? Oh, another Legacy figure. so people could see it. - [Coyote And Mario] - Wow! That's cool, it's got a In the movie they portrayed And they kind of - Which as we know you that we did one time. - Yeah, I'm wrestling. So pretty cool, Dilophosaurus. - What do we got Look at that! - [Mario] That's Blue. - Blue and Doctor Owen. Wow, actually kinda That's pretty good, Look at this figure. Wow, look at the movements. Completely articulatable How cool is that? Okay, okay, sorry. We've got to dive back You got so much stuff in there. - [Mario] Oh I got - Hold on, hold on. - This is one that I saw online, The Thrash 'N Throw T-Rex. Look at that prehistoric beauty. (toy roaring) (Mario laughing) Do that again. What? That is amazing! - Look at all of the movements and look at the This looks exactly - That's pretty good sculpting. - That is a really good toy. - Oh, look at that. So you you can kind of with its tail. - Wow, okay so he grab something, thrash Jurassic World T-Rex, that's incredible. - Oh I got some good ones. some good ones in here? - Okay, just start We gotta get some of this, (Mario vocalizing) Legacy series, yep. - Oh man. - Doctor Sattler. - And of course our game warden, Robert Muldoon, clever girl. Nice, wow these are awesome. All right set these Let's see what else you, oh man. Get it out. - Go for it. - Gotta have a Stegosaurus. That's a Legacy Series? No, this is just Jurassic World. Yeah, you've got Stegosaurus Wow, look at all the That's the thing that This is cool, very-- Very rubber pliable plates wow, what an awesome toy. - Nice, I like the color - Stegosaurus! - All right, what Oh this is cool, we've got-- The little figures. This is a new thing They came out with these and actually they sent I love these. Now we have seen of different stores. And I gotta admit guys, every time we see When we are On our supply shopping-- At a store and we see What's cool about them is people love what are - Let's open on up. - You don't know Yeah, we'll, let's So it looks like a dinosaur And you open this up, and Oh, nice, Paracephalosaurus. - Look at that. - It's Blue. - Nice! - Although the size doesn't but wow this is super cool. - Yeah look at all the ones that you get. a little collection sheet. Let's see, oh that's cool. So you can open this up and you can check off that you can find. - Ooh, Indominus Rex I bet that one is pretty rare. - Look at all the ones we got. - We've got a bunch of them. Let's save that towards All right put those And this is cool because you can also buy the and I believe there are a So if you don't like just you can buy them. - Yeah, these are fun though, - They're my favorite. Great stocking stuffers, right? For this holiday season, that's enough taking-- Oh, what's that? That's another figure. Oh that's baby Blue. - Oh and Doctor Owen, Cool, well that's pretty neat because this was actually where they had the and Owen was facing the Carnotausaurus, right? - Carnotausaurus, yep. Let's see what he can do. That's pretty cool. its mouth opens all the way up. - Nice. - Oh, yeah, look at that. Whoa! - This was definitely that they featured Here's a little tidbit they did have one of Yeah, and it was really ominous. - It's always sort of been in the background in but didn't make its appearance which is super Look at the detail in baby What a great little tiny They absolutely Man, good job Mattel. - All right, what what else you got there? - I got something I wasn't gonna All right I'm gonna move, I'm gonna just put this box Check it out, that is the Wow, what an epic toy! This is great, it's This may be a candidate Whoa wait, let's keep moving. - Let's just get these guys out. - Yep, give me a couple. Right there, it's got a Look, look, here's - Oh nice they did Oh they call it that was Dino Damage Sweet, Triceratops, here's Gallimimus, it's a Galli. - [Both] Galli, Gallimimus. - I'm done with this one. Get that box out of the way. The moment we have all I have a feeling I but I don't know I'm really hoping, I'm really because if they did send it, somebody out there in the Okay there's more in here than Hold on a second. Whoa, whoa, whoa. What's this T-Rex? - Whoa! I didn't even know Look at this, Jurassic World - [Mario] Rexy, right? That's what they call her? Oh, oh, oh, hold on. Oh I know what Just go ahead, grab it, grab it. I'm trying to get these - So it's clear that of the second movie, right? The Indoraptor, look at - Oh my gosh. of my favorite - And some of the homages to the original in the way that some of in the movements Oh my gosh. a great job with just the - I think this is for possibly opening as well. - Okay, Indoraptor, Yes, thank you guys for saying When we opened up it was like, oh, no Indoraptor? We have to feature But look at this. - One of the new vehicles, Does this actually I think it does. Oh man, we're not gonna We're gonna be playing for the rest of the day. - Rest of the week. There are more boxes bubble wrap, hold on a second. - What is that? - Jurassic World Chomp 'N Roar. Oh my gosh, Mario, would - [Mario] No. - [Coyote] You have the - [Mario] Yeah. - [Coyote] Wait till Look grab those hands, - What the? (Mario chuckles) Check this out. - Yes! Look! I saw this in the store. Yes, look at that. - Oh, man. - Are you serious? So now you've got the We know Mario has this that he's had since And finally we in that little promo video - Whoa, that's crazy. - Okay, well I know for Halloween this Whoa, check this out. - What's that? I'm just gonna have - Oh, and check it, out I have a feeling to be a part of what's coming Look at this, you and these things so you can have Doctor Do you want to take, you're gonna keep for the rest of the day? - You should try, keep them on. All right, I'm putting Oh guys, it's like the holidays, it's like your birthday Jurassic World Story Pack, I don't know what that is. this off for now. - You know what Is that this was a box - Yeah, that's pretty, a super unboxing, right? - Because there's like one, - Uh, yes please, Velociraptor, Doctor with a Gyrosphere. - Gyrosphere and Claire. I'm glad to see that now has her own toy too. - It's important, And that's what I loved that Mattel definitely this time around as well is that you have male characters you've got something Oh, yes, oh, another Gallimimus. - Ooh, all right. Can't have too many of those. That one's different, Ooh, ooh, ooh. - Attack Pack. - Dimorphodon, one - Oh, yes, look at that. in your office. And ooh, another Blue - We've got a like, we have - We have a raptor pack now. We have made it down inside of this box. - [Mario] It's - It is, this it it, this is it. Now when the new Jurassic I went online months ago, and I wanted to see and they announced the in the franchise. - I did get a I was doing my research. Ready? (both vocalizing) - Jurassic World Super - You know it's big - This is the biggest T-Rex All right, watch yourself Mario, I've got a knife coming towards you there. Let us reveal to the Thank you Mattel This was the one thing that Hold that, here we go. - Coming out. Oh my goodness! - Colossal. Wow! That is a heavy toy. - Is it? - That is huge. Now what is cool about this, look at the size of its head, you can fit your What is so cool about is you put it together, the legs are kind of this can actually eat - Really? And Mattel thought, you with their toy dinosaurs? Eat things. That's what they do. You can actually put down through this and then it comes out - It poops it out? If we're gonna be yeah the T-Rex is then gonna Oh, my gosh, all right What we're gonna do we're gonna clean up display the toys and then we're that we're going to have unboxed and display you guys and I mean this would if we reviewed everything that some of these in an upcoming series on the Brave Wilderness Channel. It is an adventure 65 that's all I will but stay tuned guys the Brave Wilderness All right, let's cut and take a look at these toys. - [Mario] All right. (Coyote squeals) All right, guys and we are back. Now you see the ones that We were gonna film all that and in there, weren't they? - They sure were, yeah. - Mario, tell us - I unboxed the Indoraptor is I really like this it was kind of the villain. And this figure is look it's got all - It can bite? What was cool is in the movie, it would sometimes stand and then it crouched So, I don't know, I just really liked the And you picked? - I had to go with the This may be-- - The best Jurassic toy in my Feel it, it is Feels like the back and look how big it is. Now we saw that it was and at first I was concerned, oh how is that gonna snap It's amazing, those and they fully move, - Whoa, that's huge. - Gotcha! That is the head, that's of the alligator that - From the top, that looks Look at all those - So cool, now what's is I think you could probably even take this in - Why not, yeah. to the beach with you because it has enough you can then dump the water out, you don't want water to But this is an epic ah, smells like a Look at the underside, in the belly of this creature. - [Mario] That's impressive. - I mean, I used to around with me all the time, I think this is gonna wherever I go. that dinosaur around. - I do, I've actually to some very important - Nice, that's a good one. If we could, we would have of these toys but it and if you are still Everybody, give a huge to Mattel for sending us From the bottom this has been one of I've ever had the chance to do. But because we love the this is the moment where we say, if you write in the tell us how the Jurassic or touched your why you love these movies how you think you would to create a scene in your bedroom, your we are giving away to one lucky member What's really cool about the is that when I was a kid and I used to set up scenes in and actually practice some of that then of course on the Brave Wilderness channel. - Absolutely, yeah, that's cool. It's a great way for kids and just play around with - I think that kind of brings us to the end of the - What about the giveaway? - Well yeah, the write in the comment for your chance to win and a couple of and again a big for sending us these to review and feature here on - I feel like a - Me too. I think we're pretty of the day playing with - Yeah. Hopefully episode's I'm Coyote Peterson. - I'm Mario Aldecoa. - Be brave. - Stay wild. - We'll see you on the (both roaring) Ah, it got my eye. Wow, this Indoraptor (toy mask squealing) Oh, hey, Blue. What's going on girl? Hi have a seat, have a seat. Whoa, whoa, whoa, click-click, you know me. Yeah, good raptor, there we go. (screams) God, no! Hey, Coyote Pack, if want to go on a prehistoric make sure to check out the into the back country of And don't forget, subscribe, so you can join me and the (wolf howling)