Hey everyone, and welcome to TopThink. Today, introverts incredibly attractive. Many people don't realize how attractive misunderstand what being an introvert means. lonely, or antisocial, or maybe that they You might assume their aloof personalities or connect with potential partners, but The first question is: what does it really mean to shy or antisocial, what are these interesting highly independent and self-assured, making them always enjoy busy, highly social environments -- excel at connecting with people in more private relationships without compromising their sense of make introverted people who they are. or less social than others, there's something and self-reliant individuals. Studies show that to introverted personalities. But it's not just personality types, including the most outgoing In the dating world, this is a relatively new considered less attractive or less desirable depicted introverts as individuals lacking social people. People associated the word "introvert" but our understanding of introverted personalities Now that people have discovered what the world can see how incredibly attractive you're in the company of some of the most You may not think there's anything special practice every day. You may even feel some But the truth is if you're an introvert, your 1. Mysterious Minds anyone but themselves. They're perfectly happy in to make their lives feel complete. Because many people into their interior worlds, but that's Their mysterious personalities spark the curiosity is going on inside their heads. They want a Introverts can be enigmatic and difficult to read, 2. The Allure of Power drawn to individuals with status and authority, control. It's no surprise that the most powerful You might be surprised to learn that introverts operate with the effortless confidence of someone brag or boast. They listen more than they talk and saying much of anything, introverts display a 3. Cryptic Signals have. For example, they may be drawn to someone They want to be acknowledged by them. They want to Introverts aren't actually unavailable. that introverts are incredibly open and a different impression, often seeming cryptic Because introverts are more reserved, they play the usual social games and give While these qualities make some introverts hard more attractive than you think. Introverts are a lot like vampires. Just like avoid social spotlights. They don't want to when others look at or expect things from them. that spotlight elsewhere... but that's one reason Think about it this way. By avoiding their friends and partners to be the center of on other people, making them feel special, especially extroverts, love how this 5. Core Confidence associated with extroverted personalities, We think of confident people as outgoing and down to one thing: a strong sense of who you are. They understand themselves inside and out, putting and passions. This strong sense of self gives personal pride, making them some of the most 6. The Magic of Listening skills are often taken for granted. People spend a but rarely consider how they make others feel. for anyone hoping to build romantic connections. and they are going to feel good about you, too. When they're interested in someone, they pay close if someone tells a story, an introvert will show how much they care. These may not sound listeners are often irresistible. There's a common principle in sales that most value to things that are less available. it becomes special. We want it more This same principle explains one of the most don't often express themselves. They tend to the heart. When they finally express themselves, rare item, it's not easy to find. Introverts don't act like everyone else. they live according to their own values and into someone who stands out from the crowd In other words, introverts are undeniably unique. introverts would much rather deviate from the one-of-a-kind people, and that's 9. Mind Over Body but attraction requires more than just good looks. often connecting with people, not with By nature, introverts seek more profound, others, and the world around them. They ask hard questions, and explore complex problems. putting on full display their capacities Participating in one of these conversations can may not only learn something about yourself, deeply personal, emotional, and intellectual doesn't mean you'll fall in love. But where 10. Sexual Selectivity their romantic partners than other personality length, only developing feelings for someone introverts are more selective, they're often they're masters of playing hard to get, so they It's a strange phenomenon, but it's often how time of day, they become even more attractive 11. Fearless Authenticity qualities like confidence and humor, but there's People are almost universally drawn to we like people who express their genuine This is a difficult thing to do, but it's introverts are authentic to a fault. In every their values, and their priorities. They're resilient to the judgments and expectations of and that makes them more attractive than most. Introverts are effortlessly creative. They These exciting personalities are brimming with to explore. They use creative mediums to express heads. Spending time with an introvert, you Of course, not all introverts are talented personality types almost always have something and people are attracted to how their minds work. sure to subscribe because more