Special thanks to sponsor Ironside Computers. Use the code &quot;Gamechampmakesluigifanfiction&quot; ... don't take any unnecessary risks, try to scream out in celebration as his health With Dr. Wily thoroughly phoned home, the And holy mother of cheese on a holy cracker, Wow, never again! Good morning, everybody, and welcome back TV show in a neverending cycle of unfinished You know exactly why we're here, and you're to get this video up. I'll answer that question, as long as you Can You Beat Rockman 3 Without Getting Hit? The rules are the same as always: don't get This is a single-segment full game playthrough If, at any point, you take damage even a single You don't just go back to a checkpoint. You reset the game and start back from the Additionally, for obvious reasons, only gameplay allowed. That means no autofire, no save states, and And finally, second controller inputs, which are banned entirely. With the rules set, let's get this run three Being a Rockman game, we can choose any of Naturally, we want to get the hardest bosses time wasted beating the easy levels before Needleman is the hardest of the eight bosses, need his weakness, Gemini Laser. Unfortunately, Geminiman is likewise extremely Snakeman is next in the chain and easily beatable first. The snake heads in the first room fire some locations and fire two shots to instantaneously The second room ambushes you with three snake of time after reaching the top of the ladder, then continue. For both giant snake heads, fire three shots after, then repeat for ten total shots. In the next room, immediately kill the topmost slide past the copter to take out the next When the pole vaulters show up, completely then jump over as they run back. The Snake Joes are almost always at a different and shoot at them just before they open their You shouldn't ever have to put yourself in Once you reach the sky platforms, make sure than standing still; otherwise they're capable When the Bullet Bills spawn in, a single shot This makes them continue at their current Snakeman is easy to fight buster-only, with reliably dodge when he first walks towards To counter this, switch to Rush Coil before Though not normally intended for battle, Rush first dodge. You can now easily pepper him with buster our first damageless stage. Next on our list: Geminiman. The enemies in the first area should be self-explanatory: Buster shots when they appear. Whenever you encounter dragonflies, spawn position behind you, and jump over. Against the Ice Makers, fire the buster at Penpens from reaching you, occasionally jumping The Ice Maker will die after ten hits. In the water room you'll have to deal with below. Carefully time your jumps such that the dragonflies thus flying above you when you land, while before the missiles hit you. Before leaving the room, it is absolutely Upon climbing the ladder two frogs will jump A quick volley of bullets should be able to Thankfully, now that we have Search Snake, in the game; keep to the right half of the firing a snake. With the third snake, don't just fire once; hit on the other Gemini. Quickly get in to spam him with more Snakes, attack. With Gemini Laser equipped, we can finally The hedgehogs at the beginning can each be a single gemini laser. The cannons can be killed with a single Search close. Fire a spread out volley, then enter their possible moment. The Mets similarly can only be damaged when you'll need some very careful timing to hit The last section of the level is mostly free; until Needleman himself. Immediately rush towards him and fire a midair He'll always respond with either a short hop React with a specifically timed second shot, You should now be able to get in two final Once Needleman is down, you'll unlock the game-breakingly useful Rush Jet. Of the remaining 5 bosses, Shadowman is the You might think we'd want to grab his weakness will know that is absolutely not an option. Shadowman is weak to Top Spin, an attack that Touching things that hurt you when you touch Without his weakness as an option, our current heading for Shadowman first. When dropping from the first screen, hug the always fall straight past to the next screen The miniboss fight against Blues is super far from you, and doing jump shots while close Just keep sliding between the edges of the In the room with grenades and walking eyes, intervals. The snakes will hug every surface and take Rather than bothering to do any platforming mode with our first use of Rush Jet. Notice I'm constantly jumping; Rush Jet's on him. Any time spent jumping is free, so by constantly massively. This will be incredibly important now that Shadowman has total control of ground level, hop on Rush Jet ASAP and take to the sky to At the beginning of the fight he jumps twice jump three times before attacking. Keep close in front of him and keep firing high jump, then move behind him when he attacks. This usually keeps you safe regardless of Note, however, that this isn't safe at the If his back is too close to the wall, preemptively you'll have plenty of time to react to whatever Once his health bar reaches zero, the two finished. The next hardest of the remainder just happens Sparkman. Take note of the enemies that spawn from the reach a certain distance, and with proper The electric turrets seen throughout this the good news is you don't have to! They'll only spawn if you cross a very specific Align yourself just right, and most of them Otherwise, the rest of the stage is simple Sparkman himself is the last difficult boss He randomly hops between 1 and 4 times before You'll need to be properly positioned to dodge To make this possible, go into the battle Every one of his five attack positions have Keep heading toward those and look for chances out. With Sparkman dead, there aren't any more and relax with 3 freebie levels. Of the freebies, head for Magnetman first. There's one new enemy type in this stage to The semi-homing nature of the missiles and keep as far away as possible, spam shots to missile at the last second. On this screen, equip Gemini Laser, jump up jump height. This isn't the fastest way to kill this guy, convoluted, and is thus required. The last room has a missile turret at a higher The same strategy as before applies, though Magnetman himself is simple. As he approaches shoot him with Spark Shock, As long as you're running away from him you're If he jumps up, calmly walk to the opposite you. Repeat until death. Next on the list: Hardman. These beehives spawn a bunch of bees once have to deal with them: as long as the beehive spawn, leaving the path completely clear. With all the weapons we've gotten so far, stage with totally risk-free enemy clears. Shadow Blade's diagonal shots and Gemini Laser's This Met is dangerous if not taken out immediately, you should be okay. A crocodile will pop out of these green platforms ain't walking. A beehive will spawn as soon as you move the Scroll the screen as far right as you can, have just enough time to get it off-screen Be very careful about how you climb down the Down here we have another fight with Blues, the fight astronomically harder. Rather than being good at video games, we But don't start cheating just yet: there's Rush until after Blues starts moving, leaving Instead, we're going to give ourselves a head-start. Summon Rush mid-fall, just before you touch He'll come out during the cutscene, with ample Follow directly behind Blues and mash a couple easy victory. Shortly after is the boss door. Hardman can normally be difficult to fight you, but there's a trick to remove that aspect hugging the absolute edge of the arena, the despawn. Jump over both while hugging the wall, dodge times inbetween. After successfully avoiding a single immature bosses: Topman. Most of this stage doesn't introduce anything there are a couple new enemies. The top launchers are usually at the top of Equip Shadow Blade and mash blades towards they reach you. For the cat minibosses, stay back and spam as the yarn balls approach. There are two cats to take out and only barely an eye out and refill if given the opportunity. Search Snake also allows for a safe kill on For the final top launcher, equip Shadow Blade, and vertical throws as necessary. Miss the entire point of Topman's carefully Knuckle, and enter the boss door. Topman has the simplest pattern out of all Hit him once, slide away as the tops home After 4 hits, you'll be done with the initial your attempt. Everything you saw before now was the tutorial! Welcome to the Doc Rowboat stages! Before even being allowed to enter the endgame, two battles each against Doc Rowboat, who, one of the 8 prior bosses from Rockman 2. Considering how we obliterated them last time, revenge, and the ludicrously stupid ones have Logic dictates we should go after the hardest want to beat this entire thing you'll need I opted to instead head for one of the three around to ensure we're never underpracticed The second-hardest Doc Rowboat stage to clear The first room should feel familiar, but now to when the flame droppers spawn. Specifically, you should memorize the exact with the buster. Those specific ones you should shoot with Once a little ways along, you should have and take out the rest of the enemies. You won't need any more magnets for the rest At the stage's halfway point, we reach our Equip Rush Jet before entrance, jump on as Doc Flash is the entire reason this stage ludicrously dangerous movement. Make sure you're always jumping just next This keeps you in a blindspot where no shots Rush Jet from draining. Keep ahead of him when he passes the center pass. Unfortunately, Rush Jet will likely be draining have to finish the fight on foot. When Rush Jet is almost out, look for good passes the middle immediately after freezing. Jump down behind him, equip Needle Cannon, If you did everything right, he'll explode is the number of hits you'll be able to deal Rush Jet is now near empty, and we'll want Rush on a neverending trip to hell, and grab Once Rush Jet is about halfway filled you The next screen is the first and only use right and mash the fire button and you'll In the crawling bug rooms, keep every single certain to kill each bug before walking below In the second room, with properly paced shots clear the entire screen in one go. We're now entering the battle with Doc Bubbleman, deal quite as much damage as Metal Blade once bit longer and use a much different strategy. Head in with Rush Jet. When the battle starts, jump as high as you the start button as fast as possible. What, did you think there wouldn't be more Every time you enter and exit the weapon menu, you to wait for Doc Bubble's randomly timed first bullet guaranteed. Slide under the bubbles, deploy Rush Jet, bluescreen. The devs programmed him to wait for Rockman can continue, and wouldn't you know it, Rush Once you power cycle Doc Bubble, you can head in the Needleman revisit. The second screen will take some extremely and retracting toy lightsabers. When jumping up here, there's just enough hit. Aim for the same spot when making the jump The third spike of the next set will be timed screen. Try to time it so it's a little delayed compared wait underneath. Breeze through the next few rooms then get who's now even harder than he was in Rockman As you can probably guess, we'll be using Jump on as soon as the battle starts, and Airman will shoot out three volleys of air, Some of these patterns provide an opportunity a safe escape, but others are too dangerous When Doc Airman jumps to the left side it instead, hug the top-right corner and weave Jet as much as possible. You shouldn't run out until after he jumps Once he's low on health or you run out of Doc Air as fast as you can to hopefully end The next screen requires Rush Jet to traverse, infinitely respawning enemies to farm for Take your time and try to relax; you definitely When climbing up this ladder, drop the controller hit you and runs back to tell Wily he tried Equip Shadow Blade for the next screen, a Once it's dead, put the controller down and Seriously, this is a very important strategy! There's a weird glitch that sometimes occurs ghost of its hitbox will linger for a short Attempting to pass before that ghost despawns 0 damage. I repeat, Rockman will take exactly 0 damage. I'll let you decide if taking imaginary damage that one with a 0 foot pole. In the next screen, equip Magnet Missiles. These take out the propeller mets in one hit, clear. On the final screen, run forward and Shadow ball, switch to Needle Cannon, and enter the Crashman has been upgraded since Rockman 2 When you fire your gun, he'll jump a random fire a bomb midjump. Try to control him by forcing him to jump room. Be warned, he's entirely capable of jumping in mind and be ready to adapt. With Doc Crash dead, we've only got four more The fourth-hardest Doc Rowboat level is the The spikes may look intimidating, but if you moving forward you'll always fall safely. Equip Magnet Missiles before the third fall, For the next screen, equip Spark Shock. Wait for just the right time, jump and fire so you can safely walk below. The return of the grenade room can be skipped very much energy as long as you keep jumping. Head into the halfway boss door for the Woodman Woodman is even easier to beat now than he Use Rush Jet to hide in the top-left corner, to spam needles when Doc Wood is unshielded. Once Doc Wood reaches the left edge, head rise up, then move back to safety and counterattack. Woodman is not only the easiest Doc Rowboat in the entire game, so you shouldn't have The Snake Joe in the next room is a little timed slide will dodge his attack safely. After the Joes use Rush Jet in the lava room This time, frogs will periodically spawn in. Keep their locations in mind and aim where Before the final screen, swap to Magnet Missiles, fire button in midair. Four magnets will kill the launcher, then close. The Heatman rematch starts out very similarly of fire directly at you the moment the battle This time, you'll want to hold down and right, the flames. That dodge is the only hard part; you can from afar. And if you need a bathroom break, now is the Just lure him directly into one of the edges He apparently understands and will wait impatiently. Once Doc Heat is dead, we can finally stop for: the absolute hardest damageless stage stage yet seen in the entire series, the Sparkman The level's difficulty comes almost entirely all being extremely simple. One note for this room, you can bypass a very sliding forward below it. It won't fire its missile if you're that close, below. Next is Doc Metalman, where we'll be using Slide to the halfway point, fire a missile, Blades hit you. This will allow you to dodge all Metal Blades He's not as pathetic as he used to be and it's rare for this to throw a major wrench as easy as Doc Wood. Sldie and jump through the next few totally you've ever made in your entire life, because nightmare himself: the physical manifestation More than any other boss, Quickman is most lives. Remember how we beat him in the previous episode? We spammed him with weapons he was completely him into a fancy invulnerability pose. Though intended to show off his strength, allowing for quick weapon swapping to drain to fight. In this incarnation, however, he's learned whatsoever! He takes at least 1 damage from every single stopping him from obliterating you with pure, In every single other boss fight in Rockman will at least theoretically make victory possible RNG can make a boss harder but never impossible. To juxtapose this, Doc Quick will sometimes the fight begins. Meaning, for the damageless run to be possible, to win. And, of course, in addition to that requirement, his ludicrously hectic movements and attacks. But don't give up hope: being good at video While Doc Quick's usual preferred weakness makes this fight just a little more bearable: will start to run slower, and Doc Robot's filling the screen near the limit. Since time is moving slower but your brain better chance of figuring out exactly what's Quickman's movement while preparing for his This doesn't really help us with Gemini Laser at a time, and thus the game is only ever target. But Doc Quick has a secondary weakness. Search Snake may not seem like the best offensive up to 3 shots on-screen at a time. Intentionally miss with two snakes and save Okay, yes, yes! Practice finally paid off! With enough brute force, Doc Quick's random you to pass without a scratch. After all these years, we've passed the most It's victory lap time! Welcome to the Wily Stages! Most of Wily Stage 1 can be cleared with strats Just note the water room with the flying penguins. Memorize their spawn positions, swap to Magnet across the spikes. I'm probably going to be responsible for a boss room you should equip Top Spin. Yes, seriously. While Top Spin normally results in the player most people don't realize: no damage is taken Wily Stage 1's boss consists of multiple separate one Top Spin. The whirlwinds spat out by the walls and floor a bit, but otherwise the turtles are sitting Stage 2 features some more beehives in combination The first of these will require some hectic The second and third can be safely despawned deliver you all the way to the boss door. The boss fight is against Yellow Devil Mk. difficult to incredibly pathetic. You have more than enough time to react to no memorization required, and now have the Once he switches sides, jump and fire one over again. When he moves to the left side specifically, hits, climb aboard and fly over, thus skipping hitboxes. Punch him in the eyeball a few more times Once again, no new strategies are necessary. There are a couple enemies to take out from Snake, and a hopper requiring a very stressfully After a short moving platform segment we'll Holorock, who's going to require us to play Only one of these Holorocks can take damage, bullets at us shortly after the battle starts. Once that happens, your death is nearly guaranteed, in about two seconds. Luckily, while the true Holorock's location when the battle begins: the real one is always Additionally, Holorock has no invulnerability shovel it into his face. We could use his weakness, Search Snake, to movement, but this is way too risky. Instead, we'll be using the most powerful boy! Most weapons don't allow the player to enter on-screen. Each Rush weapon is an exception, letting After swapping weapons, the preexisting pellets weapon you swapped to. For example, if you swap to Search Snake, as if you'd hit the opponent with an actual This is cool on its own, but usually isn't at a time and all this weapon swapping is people in the face. Thankfully, there's yet one more tidbit of weapon in the game, does not immediately despawn This normally doesn't matter much given the attribute to a buster shot, and the enemy the pellet will deal damage every single frame. With this trick, you can take out Holorock Welcome to Wily Stage 4, the final stage in The garbage bots here are simple, but be warned, are still capable of throwing it even if they're On this screen, do NOT drop down the ladder, If you drop down, you'll automatically take hold onto the ladder that no longer exists. In the boss rush, almost all bosses are fought our strategies for both Shadowman and Sparkman Rush is more critical for Shadowman, so go conserve Rush Jet as much as possible. Additionally, there's a new strategy possible impossible to lose. This is the &quot;sip a latte until the heat death As funny as that may seem, trust me, you do actual run. (Archived Audio) Oh NOOOO! OH MY GOOOOOOOOOD! Everything when exactly as planned. With the boss rush down, it's now time for and Spark Shock on the way there, equipping Wily Machine Number 3 will fire a very difficult-to-dodge after the turret appears on-screen. To prevent it from causing any problems, wait the left for the third time, and jump. If done correctly, the orb will be fired into Stall for time just a little bit longer; if glitch a bullet past the right side of the If you stall long enough, he'll only be able Hop on Rush Jet and you can easily whittle But don't get too excited: just like last We've got just one more to tackle. (Archived Audio) All right. We go in with Shadow Blade, we position ourself We rhythmically jump up and shoot up, make doing that. While we're waiting for Phase 2, we hold down connects we slide to the left. Uh, we wanna do it very quickly, and then Immediately after we've dodged that bullet, two shots, we switch to Top. Hahaaaa... AAAAAAH HAAAAAA! UUUUUUUUUUH, AAAAHH! OH MY GOOOOD! OOH. OH MY GAH- OH MY GOD. OH MY GOD! With Dr. Wily glitched into horrifically permanent Run is Mission Complete! Do not ask me about the fourth game! We are going to sit here and we are going Okay?! By the way, two final notes. First, if you'd like to see the run in its archived on the Let's Strem channel. Second, random fun fact time: I like money! I want to eat money. I want to eat YOUR money. Starting today, there's a new tier on the the usual vocal shoutout, you'll get access In these commentaries, I give random thoughts Did you ever want to know why I say &quot;Mission You could find out this incredibly inconsequential my face. One commentated episode is live right now, I'll be uploading one per week. Additionally, since these won't be live on analytics and can make minor updates whenever Let me know any questions you have about prior I might update the commentary. Speaking of giving me money- Special thanks to all Patreon backers including: Anon42 Zahlen 0 Chris Nate Anyuu Vincent Hall LivelyLeader Jace Nilges Rory Kelly LittyKitty CrustaceanCreep PlumSweater EpicEvan921 Ye Olde Foren Miss Functional Nathaniel Coleda exactly Gamechamp got meaningful gun control Zo Aaron Bailey Game Champ says Trans rights are Human rights! Xander Kozak BoomBoxxy KirbsD50 Damien R. World's slowest game of chess, white playing that's dangerous, you know. A queen might die SaltySweet dwro_25 britfaic kid wispy-syrup rcombs Greg Campbell Slowest Game of Chess Black. Sure, Mr. White. How are you doing today, have you been enjoying Officer Slard Have you ever considered not being bad at Nova Sulfuric Boss ZythAgol Eric Barron Mars Becker Fira Silktoid DrawnByAJ 2 - The Return of the Haha Funny Amphyzen Literal cat Sylvi 'wingedcatgirl' is gay and Reblog if you too are gay and or don't go Eve Weaver Cable I think it's time we blow this scene, get Okay, 3, 2, 1, let's jam! Flip-Chicken Ryan Garvey GrandeNero an offline Internet TV show rocks, then shouldn't Magunettoman be called Fireblade974 NowIOnlyWantATriumph AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA, aaaAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA The Jelly Bean Warlock Triceratops' frill, beak and horns are covered are made from, which is keratin Sorio99 Dakota Riggs InfamousPeace TrisChandler Makii Bee Lily_you forgot the underscore_Sap darknitte ChampDoesntLikeToSayFunsieRunsie Gamechamp says EA Games is the greatest game Carlo Calcaterra DrFeed madrox07 Friendly reminder that it's NOT normal to F Amadon TBrenelly200 Pug Master LemonPlanter NitsuaGamer (Nitsa-Gamer) got to a ringless did! Fluff System Rekindled in the Dying Flames of Capitalism Frillylilly Alex S. Warrior Goddwordit. Nobody saw that. Gamechamp please delete your previous two Supporting Gamechamp until ratatouille 2 is CutieMonica can seem to consistently pronounce, Nemeia Whether we wanted it or not, we've stepped So lets get to taking out their command, one No one bill Has anyone seen where it went My cat mmnmnmnmnnmmnnmmnmmnmmnmn BJMashPotato is making Gamechamp read more Out of the night that covers me black as the may be for my unconquerable soul Dantastic We're not sure how but Gamechamp3000 used gun control legislation passed 11Natrium Matthew Williams Viohazard Howl's one-handed egg cracking technique Patreon Per Video and All I Got Was This Lousy So tell me GameChamp Does making my name really people could hear the name Hamm Mann Metroid for the Nintendo Entertainment System TheBeardPhantom Everyones favorite Trans Dragon girl Aurelia Let me know how much this video sucks and I told you not to in the comments below. Don't worry, it probly won't take three friggin' Oh, I also forgot until very late into editing He's pathetic, murder him. Also, oh my god, it never ends. Also, while I was editing, I ended up finding If you leave Hardman's room as he's freezing thing, then for like the rest of that level, from the ground. It looks a little silly. That's it.