Carthage was a mighty empire whose domains mediterranean. Famed as great merchants and armies of hired mercenaries and auxiliaries, overshadowed by units like the War Elephants, Today however we will focus on the best of the Sacred Band, jewels of the great city. If you are fascinated by the famous units of World of Tanks whose free-to-play PC game puts vehicles of the mid 20th century. With over 600 are countless strategies and tactics for you to waged across over 40 unique maps. The game is which you can check out today for free. By using will unlock the Tier 5 Matilda Black Prince, 7 crew in addition to the Tiger 131 and Sherman VC We will begin with an overview of the The city had initially been founded in 814 BC political ties to its mother city of Tyre. As with have been the ones to take up arms in the defense would have closely resembled Phoenician troops However given Carthage's position at the they would certainly have had access to the into a proper city, its citizen-soldiers would in quality. For instance some artistic depictions form very similar to that of a greek hoplite. their own equipment, and thus their armor richer citizens also began taking the field as been deployed in many of Carthage's early wars However, as the city grew its primarily mercenaries, and conscripts. This trend was which extracted monetary and manpower tribute replacement of its native forces not but also served to insulate the relatively small Why waste good men who were busy earning you when you could easily use a fraction of those Thus this process only accelerated as Carthage to raise outsourced armies. By the fourth were almost entirely composed of of the army that set out to conquer Sicily Yet the Carthaginian citizen-soldier was filled the upper ranks of the army and we can find both on foot and on horseback alongside their citizens were conscripted in times of great peril, or the Mercenary War of 240 BC. But how many Let's explore a crude model that can allow us to force. In terms of the total city population of 750,000 at its height. To this number we that only about 20-25% of people are actually fit of around 170,000. Being generous we can of this number are citizens which gets However many of these would have Generously dividing our number again in half 40,000 soldiers. This estimate lines up quite of Agathocles we are told that the Carthaginian an impressive tally it indicates a far smaller by the Romans and the Greeks who could better However the 45,000 number is only one data the citizen force varied greatly as the situation have been quite dangerous for Carthage to have to Raising an army is not like flipping a switch. down completely risks losing invaluable This is where the idea of a core, professional backbone of your army. The Achaemenid Persian 10,000 Immortals in this capacity. For Carthage, The name may seem familiar as it is actually draw parallels between this elite Punic force we need to remember that any description of the influenced by this association. That being Well they are first referenced in 341 BC during have fought valiantly. Beyond this we only get Nevertheless, what we have on the Sacred Carthaginian army. Unlike the rest of Carthage's which as we have seen were a rarity. And, hand pick either for their wealth, reputation, or Carthaginians in the unit at any given time. Let's As we have stated, the Sacred Band were generally mercantile Empire. As such, much of their attire the dress of the troops before they even put have followed the eastern tradition and been made being displayed most prominently. On top of this into the material with fancy golden threads leaves, and palmettes. It is very likely that they and earrings, From archaeological tomb findings themselves with body paint and tattoos. One can the Sacred Band showing off intricate patterning As for actual practical gear, they would have kit entailed comes to us from descriptions of the and Plutarch. While not overly specific it does which was brilliant to behold and of superior of the gaps in this description by turning to indicate that Punic infantry bore much of the same The chest therefore could have been protected ringmail armour more commonly encountered in the but strong linothorax armour often favored by the chest armour would have been the bronze or iron detailed artwork. Accompanying these would which featured layered fabric strips for would have been protected by bronze greaves on at Meanwhile the head was protected by a forms of either bronze or iron material. and we have some records of these being modified to Ba'al Hammon [BAH-ALL HA-MON]. Other times style helmets. Again these all would have featured It seems officers even wore animal Last but most important for defense was type was the large, hoplon type shield we They were primarily made of wood with a bronze For the Sacred Band, this piece of armour their wealth. The interior could have while the exterior was exquisitely decorated with silver, and perhaps even ivory which gave them that these patterns bore symbols of religious, One can therefore expect to see signs of other religious iconography like river springs Depictions of wild animals, hunting scenes, We are told that ultra high-end shields even had intricate stories of Carthage's For offense, their primary weapon weapon would It would have been around 2-3m long with and a butt spike on the other. We have evidence which meant the Sacred Band a backup short-sword and dagger. Again these Thus what we have here are walking and military might which must have been a was possible due to the massive arms sector Let's now turn to a discussion The Sacred Band of Carthage were professional conscription but volunteering. They were almost by their service record. As heavy infantry, they and thus needed to be able to withstand Physically, they had to be tough, and mentally, of these areas they excelled though we have little As for tactics, it seems that they functioned Greek phalanx this meant organizing and deploying A similar practice may have been used by the In any case, once deployed on the battlefield of the Carthaginian formation, the This was due to the fact that shields right side of the body unprotected, thus Ancient generals would therefore place their best We have evidence of this at the Battle of was consistently deployed in this fashion, As mentioned earlier, the history of While there are no recorded instances of the unit this as there would always have been an elite Perhaps as the native troops were slowly replaced coalesced and evolved into the elite regiment founded at some point in an attempt to reform The first official record of the Sacred Band the 6th Punic-Sicilian War against In response to Timoleon's Carthage had marched its army East to confront the the Battle of Crimissus around 339 BC. Though the stood to the last man they could not salvage Their rich jewelry and armor was all pilfered, said to be so shocking to Carthage that they However, this last point was clearly as they appear again in the 7th Punic-Sicilian the Carthaginian army against Syracuse, and this is unclear. However, the sources do say that the tyrant, invaded Africa in 310 BC. At the battle and were given the right wing, the place of It is said that they were the last fighting on to allow the rest of their allies to to serve throughout the war as well, though After the Sicilian Wars, the Sacred Band is of them fighting the Romans in any of the Punic frequency during the darker days of the conflict, these citizen soldiers. For instance, in Punic-citizens were conscripted to fight by the then they may even have fought at famous battles climactic siege of Carthage. Alas we simply do not us, we hope you've appreciated our attempts in Once again, we'd like to thank World of Tanks for the description below to hop into history's finest A huge thanks is owed to our supporters on Patreon and artists who made this video possible. Please let us know what units of history you want