- [Jared] The year 2019 of the Apollo 11 moon landing. Let's celebrate by using 3D animation to show the inside of Let's check it out. (electricity buzzes) (explosion pops) All right, so we're What should our landing vehicle look like? Early artwork got their Then, we started building prototypes. This one had five legs. Our astronauts will want to see outside, so let's make a cockpit with some windows. (soft music) The final design has only four legs, and the windows are much It was about 23-feet tall. For comparison, here's The LM was designed and by the Grumman Corporation. It took hundreds of engineers and most of the 1960s to complete. It was originally called the Lunar Excursion Module, or just LEM. Eventually, the word excursion but everyone still It was a long process to get this machine all the way to the surface of the moon. It was launched aboard the Saturn V rocket and then went to the moon along with the Service Module These three parts together are what we call the Apollo Spacecraft. The LM was the only part that goes down to the surface of the moon. It was the first spacecraft designed to only operate in the vacuum of space. So for example, the Command Module needed to be really aerodynamic for the launch through the earth's atmosphere. The LM wasn't exposed until Since there's no air up here, the outline really doesn't matter. This is part of why you get a spacecraft that looks unlike anything Starting with the famous Apollo 11, there were a total of six moon landings covering a span of about three years. Apollo 13 had an accident in space and was forced to come home early without landing on the moon. Earlier missions tested the and then once in lunar orbit without actually landing on the moon. More Apollo missions were planned but were canceled due to budget cuts. The LM was split up into two parts: the ascent stage and the descent stage. For the landing, both parts When it's time to leave, only the ascent stage leaves the surface, which means that each of left behind a descent stage. Let's zoom in for a closer look. There were four legs attached to the side. These were originally in so that the limb would fit Then, once they are getting ready to land, the legs are extended. Three of the legs contained which told the astronauts to the surface to shut This leg has the ladder which On the left side of the ladder, there's a container which The shape of the descent stage Here's what the structure Inside there were five The center one contained the decent engine which was used for landing on the moon. In order to light this engine up, we'll need two oxidizer They both feed right into the engine. This gives us the propulsion we'll need to safely land on the moon. These outer areas are where They called them quadrants. So this was quadrant one, Quadrant one was for general storage. For the last three Apollo missions, there was the Lunar Roving Once on the surface, it was This allowed them to explore much further from the lunar module. Quadrant two contained a water tank, and then below here was the Apollo Lunar Surface which basically contained for them to perform. Quadrant three had another and on a few missions it which is a special kind of mirror. They were left behind on and they allow scientists even today to balance laser light from Quadrant four contained the Modularized Equipment And if you've ever those first few steps on the moon, there's a camera here that The landing legs were attached The covering on the outside which looks like gold tinfoil. They used it because it was lightweight and it made sure that the too hot or too cold. This the platform that and these are the plume deflectors. They protected the spacecraft from the thrusters on the ascent stage. If we remove the cover, you can see some of the Let's start with the main structure. This is the crew compartment, the midsection, and the aft equipment bay. Both the crew compartment were normally pressurized, which means that they can safely The crew compartment Controls were mostly in the front, and then there's two windows to look outside at the The commander was on the left, and the LM pilot was on the right. Remember, that the third astronaut was still orbiting the moon in the CSM. After landing, this hatch to leave the cabin and start In the midsection, you'll and this cover which And of course, the tunnel to once back in lunar orbit. The aft equipment bay has as well as other electronics for the LM. There's a fuel tank here and This is the reason that we have these bulges on the side here. Both of these tanks feed which was used to blast off On the outside is the Reaction It's an arrangement of 16 It was powered by fuel and During the flight, these to maneuver the LM. The plume deflectors helped redirect the exhaust to protect the descent stage. On the outside were several antennas to let them communicate with So much effort went into What's sad here is that they Most of the descent stages on the moon, and most of into the moon after they were A few lunar modules never got They are now located in museums along the east coast of the United States. My name's Jared, and I about how things work. Click here to learn more and click here to subscribe to my channel. Thanks for watching, and