This may look like an Olympics, but that's not here. For the ISS, you want a ability to rotate around consistent working right here in front of you. handrails. So low torque in Good dexterity in the Eric Valis is a senior He's been testing out a spacesuit, which NASA hopes Space Station by 2026. The spacesuits that are International Space Station really designed in the that were originally Shuttle program. Due to the working on them, kept maintaining them for all But really, these are suits useful life. NASA's tried to updated its A 2021 report by NASA's found that NASA has spent estimated $420 million to replacement for its aging produce any operational Estimates show that by the actually in use, NASA will billion dollars on the There were two different One was the lack of get funds, you know, from projects to to fund their And the second problem was destination. The projects through different political years. And something that and technological and a timeline. NASA is now going another commercial companies to suits. So without further ado, I'm the awardees will be Axiom Industry Team. CNBC got a rare look inside 120,000-square-foot facility located at the where the company showed us NASA's current spacesuits, mobility units, or EMUs in complex. The current spacesuit has that make it up, and the is roughly equivalent to refrigerator, about 5.5 There have been a number of years due to the aging A final investigation is in in space of that Italian outside the International His equipment failed him. In fact, they say it was probably saved his life water. In 2022, NASA temporarily following another incident filled with water. We're starting to see some some components that need So on Space Station, we're closely the performance of still on orbit. In the meantime, these new failure of water in the designed such that that occur. Inventory issues are also a In 2019, NASA was forced to the first all-female International Space Station have the proper spacesuit female astronauts. In the beginning of human spacesuits were custom With the beginning of the was this idea of abandoning going to small, medium and That worked for a while. But as our astronaut corps diverse, the sizes don't NASA's Office of Inspector the original 18 primary only 11 remain in NASA's program, with only four of ISS at any given time for spacewalks. These are suits that were be serviced in space, but because they were dependent So now it kind of changed have to keep them up there. And the astronauts are the maintain them. So the minimal. The portable life support bulky backpack and is one of the spacesuit or EMU. The PLSS houses a variety functions needed to keep an including providing oxygen, temperature, and removing the spacesuit. The second pressure garment system, or garment that surrounds is to maintain appropriate bodies to keep them alive well as protect them from Underneath the PGS, cooling and ventilation water flows to help temperature. The new suit suit structure, but are There's just normal, what we certain parts we just can't And so we are building a start using new components, new technologies that are just simply weren't ago. Under the Exploration Services Contract or xEVAs, and Axiom, along with a partners, with up to $3.5 Axiom won the first $228.5 the suits that will be used missions. And Collins won contract to design and suits for the International In addition to making the Axiom will be tasked with parts to keep the suits in as conducting training and NASA's staff. The beauty of this contract requirements for these two So at any given time we contractors to actually what we call, platforms. And we also have, what we the contract, which means into play and they have the can actually bring them on them to compete on task Kearney says the continued incentivize the contractors schedule and ultimately the government down. In support, NASA also provided data from the development efforts through What we basically did was it available to industry work and taxpayer money And so as industry came in suits, they were able to available from the xEMU Axiom Space would not give spacesuit designs prior to To design this new is working with longtime as Oceaneering. Collins, and defense giant, Raytheon for the life support in charge of devising the Oceaneering will handle interface capabilities. The companies have a long NASA. We were actually selected to provide those spacesuits along with our partner, ILC We were actually also develop the Space Shuttle mobility unit. ILC Dover and Collins also astronauts currently use on One striking difference, The current EMU weighs significantly heavier than There are also other This helmet is different the EMU now. It offers a It has protective visors to radiation and glare. The upper torso is members better and can be orbit or during a mission injuries and to make their them. The upper arm is also It provides a better range motion than the current Ferl says that while the to 95th percentile of designed to fit the first astronauts using fewer As a result, 30% less launched into space, and decreased crew training Another big improvement in is their increased mobility Things like standing up, you angles to rotate your body, something that we couldn't Extended range of motion important for planetary Though Collins' contract spacesuits for the the company and its suit with future planetary and the moon, in mind. For something like the Moon restriction you have in the Being able to catch fall is a big plus, concerns. So good mobility. Stabilization is important. One of the biggest going back to the moon is which are like the powder. They sieve through has to be coated or solid dust particles. A lot of the lessons learned applied and incorporated, mass, greater connectivity They need a better ability our suits, communicate with continue to go further and going to have to have all self-contained. Crew operate somewhat Something else that suit the length of time that on missions. When we think about some of missions, some of the other incorporated is really just The ability to do and enable that work to be So we've incorporated architecture. So as new they can be incorporated Under the contract Axiom to deliver the suits by August 2025. While Collins' ISS delivery by 2026. Prior to being worn by suits have to undergo We require crew member garment to make sure requirements. And then we call relevant environments. So that could be a thermal be in the NBL, that could on Space Station. Since NASA's purchasing its as a service, the vendors suits for non-NASA Though Collins would not its other customers, the with about 8 to 10 in their spacesuit The new customers that we're current batch of commercial There are countries that in space that were not in participate. And as space more affordable, those opportunity to step in. Romero also predicts that spacesuits will continue to cases of its broader Today, we use it for little for experiential going out and doing space That's really not a part of will become a part of EVA Future programs will have robotics, so our suit needs able to communicate with able to safely operate And it could be big market is poised to reach NASA is also looking beyond ideations of future de Leon and his team at the the University of North grant to develop a new prototype for Mars and De Leon has worked on a projects in the past, but different. Some of the advantages will manufacturing. The second the body and then build a specifically designed astronaut. And the third spaceflights go further go, say to Mars for year away from our planet. And if we need a any other part of a one year away to get that So what about if you can put together your suits and Mars? De Leon adds that exploring Mars will likely mean that spacesuits much more Going back to the moon will explorations almost every The same for Mars. Spacesuits, I think they people just because there's them. It's exciting to work critical, that keeps crew I know it's a big every day when we make Yeah, it's really it's