Hello everyone, this is Erica. We usually use a stand mixer for mixing a bread dough. However, not everybody has a stand mixer or bread machine So today let's see how to knead the bread dough by hand The dough has to pass the windowpane test when making a bread If the dough is not mixed enough The texture of the bread will be crumbly like a steamed bun. First let's talk about where the pane(gluten) is from. There are two types of protein in wheat flour. Glutenin and Gliadin. The gluten does not exist until the flour is mixed with water. Once mixed with water The two proteins bind and form gluten. As you continue mixing the dough more gluten is developed The chain of protein become longer. It is acting like a net traps the air bubbles produced by the yeast and let the dough rise it gives the bread a spongy texture. There are several factors that influence gluten development. The first one is protein content. Since gluten comes from the protein. Flour with higher protein content develops gluten faster Bread flour is a better choice for hand kneading. It will save you a lot of time and energy than using all purpose flour. The second factor is water. Higher hydration ratio benefits gluten development When kneading by hand the dough will loose its moisture during the mixing process. and you will find the dough becomes dryer and dryer as you work on it. Therefore, when mixing by hand you may add a little bit more liquid to the dough than using a mixer But don't add too much Otherwise it is more like a batter The third factor is salt Salt strengthens the gluten structure. We will later talk about autolyse process in which you ad the salt in the end. The fourth factor is fat. Fat will coat the protein and prevent the gluten chain from binding each other. This is why we always add the fat in the end of the mixing process. The fifth factor is time. The more time flour and water spent together The more gluten is developed. This is how autolyse process works Autolyse is a process that you let the dough rest for a long time and let the gluten develop through the resting time. Beside all the factors we talked about we don't want the dough to start to rise when we are still working on it especially when you are in a warm environment or working slowly the fermentation process goes faster Therefore, use icy or cold liquid in the dough instead. There are two types of method that we make the dough, a direct dough which uses yeast or an indirect dough which uses pre-ferments. Since I usually use a pre-ferment(biga) when making bread today I am going to demonstrate with an indirect dough. The process are basically the same for the two types of doughs. I am going to demonstrate a detailed bread recipe with a hand kneaded dough. Today we only focus on the kneading part. This is the pre-ferment(biga) we prepared beforehand. Take it out of the fridge and you don't need to let it come back to room temperature. Add all the ingredients in the dough except for the butter. Tear the biga into small pieces and add to the bowl. It is easier to mix with other ingredients if you tear it to smaller pieces. Roughly mix everything in to a large chunk. The dough is very sticky at this point. Don't add any flour. Let's transfer it to a kneading mat and work there. I highly recommend to get a kneading mat if you knead by hand a lot. It is simply a large piece of silicone mat. It is large and affordable, and more importantly, non-stick. You may also do it on a flat and smooth countertop. A wooden cutting board is not the best choice because it absorbs moisture from the dough and stick. Transfer your dough to the kneading mat. Then push the dough forward with one hand like this. The dough is extremely sticky at first. It feels like mud. All you need to do at this point is repeating the pushing action and don't add any flour. Use a scrapper to gather the dough together. When you mix for 5 minutes, The dough will come together. Stretch the dough and check. You can get a thick layer of pane at this point. Continue kneading. More gluten is developed through the stretch and push process. When you get to the 8th minutes, you will get a thick but more tenacious pane. Now we can add softened unsalted butter Fold the butter in the middle Repeating the kneading process. The dough will fall apart at the beginning. After 3 minutes, the butter will be completely absorbed. Another 3 minutes, you can get a thinner layer of pane. But it is easy to break. The edge of the hole is not smooth. It is good enough if you are making bread buns. However, if you want to make a bread loaf. You knead to keep working on it until it passes the windowpane test. Other than the pushing action I use, You may also throw the dough forward like this. I don't really like this method. Because I feel the dough will loose its moisture as it flies in the air. which makes the dough dryer. I also sometimes hurt my fingers when doing this and it is so noisy. Or you can knock the dough with a rolling pin. But it is also too loud and noisy. That's why I always prefer the pushing method. You may try different techniques and find the one you like. I spent another 7 minutes kneading. Now let's take another look. You can get a large see-through pane like this without much efforts. Poke a hole in the pane, the edge of the hole is smooth. The dough is now soft and pliable. You can see tiny bubbles on the surface. The bubbles come from the kneading process not the fermentation process. Now our dough is ready to use. I spent 20 minutes in total Transforming the dough from a mess of mud to a ready-to-use dough. However, I actually used all purpose flour with a higher protein content for the demonstration because I had no bread flour available at home. It will take less time if I had use bread flour instead. You may spend less or more time doing this depending on how strong you are or how quick you do this. Among all the tips I found that a higher hydration ratio helps the most to save the kneading time. Besides using more liquid in the beginning, If you found the dough is too dry put some water on your hands and keep the dough moist. Lastly, let's talk about the autolyse method. If using autolyse method, mixing everything to a dough except for the salt, yeast and butter. Let the dough rest in the fridge overnight and let the gluten develop. Then mix in the salt, yeast and butter separately. It will reduce the kneading time. The reason we add the salt last is to prevent the salt from slowing down the enzyme activity which helps to improve the flavor of the dough. Autolyse works better when the dough has higher hydration ratio. I tried it with the same bread dough. I found it didn't save me too much time because I had to spend extra time mixing in the salt and yeast. Also because you add the yeast later. It takes more time for the primary fermentation process to finish than a dough made with pre-ferments. Overall, it didn't save me too much time. If making a bread with higher hydration ratio, like sourdough bread, I would use this method. There are many different methods to use when kneading a bread dough by hand It doesn't matter which one you use as long as it works for you. You can mix a bread dough without a mixer. Thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel. Don't forget to turn on the notification bell so you will be notified whenever I upload a new video. This is Erica and I will see you in my next video!