Hi everyone, I hope you're all right. I'm thrilled to see you again for this video because I've wanted to do it for a while. And I really felt the need last June when I was in Syria filming my last documentary, named Black Stadium, which has just been released on the Brut x platform. Here is the teaser so you can see what it's all about. We have just arrived at the Raqqa stadium. It's a place that was turned into a prison during the reign of ISIS. We used to really love this stadium. Now it has become a very scary place. There are still traces of ISIS. All the showers and toilets under the stadium were turned into cells. They all had, how can I put it... experience in torture. If I'd found this knife during my time here, I would have killed myself before that happened to me. This documentary is probably the last one I'll make on the Islamic State, and in this video I'll try to explain why. To fully understand the story I'm about to tell you, I must talk about the start of the war in Syria and the danger of being a reporter in the region at that time,long before I went over there. It's not an easy subject but I think you'll find it interesting, so hang in there. In two thousand eleven, at the start of the Syrian revolution, I was twenty-one, and I was finishing my studies in journalism. I already knew I wanted to work in conflict zones, so I closely followed what was happening there. And it quickly became one of the most violent wars in modern history, first for civilians but also for Syrian and foreign journalists. And in January two thousand twelve, a major French reporter was killed in Homs, his name was Gilles Jacquier. A month later, in the very same city, the photographer Remi Ochlik is killed by a missile strike along with another very famous American journalist, named Marie Colvin. They were all experienced reporters. I was following their work, so it really struck me. Today, most of the serious investigations into their deaths say that it was Bashar al-Assad's regime that ordered the attacks. However, for a long time, the regime claimed it was the other side, the Free Syrian Army, its main opponent at the start of the revolution, that launched these missiles. If I'm telling you this, it's to set the scene and show you that journalists can be strategic targets in conflict zones And this for many different reasons, the first being obviously to prevent reporting on war crimes, but also because the death of a reporter can be used to weaken an opponent. And that is something I always keep in mind when I'm on the field. Every time, I ask myself how I or my death could be used by the various sides for propaganda purposes. We're also prime targets for abductions, because we can be used as bargaining chips to free prisoners in certain cases, or to claim a significant amount of money. And this is what brings me to ISIS. From late two thousand twelve to mid two thousand thirteen, several French and foreign journalists are captured by terrorists in Syria. The French are freed after almost a year in captivity, a year in hell, but many others are not so lucky and are killed. I am obviously thinking of James Foley and Steven Sotloff, American reporters. A bit later, there will also be Kenji Goto, a Japanese journalist. Videos of their beheadings have been broadcast around the world, serving the Islamic State's propaganda of terror. And it worked, because for a long time, there were hardly any French media willing to send reporters to the field, because they considered it far too dangerous. The vast majority of journalists were absolutely terrified at the thought of trying to go back there. I remember conversations I had with colleagues back then. We really all thought it was more likely for us to be kidnapped or killed than to be able to bring back our footage. It's also extremely important to clarify that the majority of the journalists who were killed by the Islamic State over there were Syrians and Iraqis. Among the French reporters who were taken hostage at the time, there was one I met completely by chance, just a few months after his release, at a training course with the army. His name is Edward Elias, Basically, for a week, we were with commandos learning basic survival skills, how to handle certain weapons and better understand how they worked, but also to get feedback from soldiers who had already been deployed in conflict zones. Some of them had worked in the field with journalists, and that hadn't necessarily gone down too well. So the idea was also to talk to each other to see how we could work together in a way that didn't endanger anyone's lives. And during this course, there were about fifteen reporters and we were all more or less preparing either to go to a conflict zone, or to work on humanitarian crises in difficult places. And among them was this twenty-three-year-old photographer, Edward Elias, who was the youngest of the group with me. So he told us about the hell he'd been through while he was being held hostage, the physical and psychological torture. And I remember it really affected me, because we were the same age and I wondered how I would have handled a situation like that, Although it's impossible to put yourself in a hostage's shoes. It was also during this period that the attacks happened in France against Charlie Hebdo, in Montrouge, and at the Hypercacher. And that was my first direct encounter with terrorism. It was in Paris, in front of the Hypercacher, because I was there to film the Raid and BRI assault. I got there very quickly before the police locked down the neighborhood and climbed into a building. I should point out that I wasn't filming the scene live at all. The documentary I shot was broadcast afterwards, to avoid endangering both the hostages and the police operation. And given what was happening in my country and in the Middle East, in Iraq and Syria, I clearly felt it was far too dangerous to go there at the time. So, I continued to investigate remotely and prepare the ground to go there one day. And it was only in June of two thousand seventeen, about two and a half years later, that I finally decided to go there because the coalition was gaining ground and reclaiming territories from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. I went there to make two documentaries. The first was about the mass graves of the terrorist group. A mass grave is a large pit where bodies are piled up without a proper burial. The documentary is still online, you can watch it on Arte's YouTube channel. I'll put the link in the description. And the second on war hospitals during the battle of Mosul, which is still available on my YouTube channel. The day I landed in Iraq, on the nineteenth of June, two thousand seventeen, two French reporters, Stephane Villeneuve and Veronique Robert, as well as their Iraqi fixer, Bakhtiar Haddad stepped on a mine on the front line of the Mosul battle and died. Another journalist was with them then. His name is Samuel Faurey. He was hurt but survived. And Samuel was a reporter who had been on the army training course with me three years earlier. It might be just a small detail, but if I tell you this it is to show you just how, back then, doing this kind of field work in those places was extremely violent. Clearly, I knew very well that going there meant there was a chance I might not come back. So, I mentally prepared myself to make sure I wouldn't make any mistakes. In my head, I had no right to find myself in a situation where my fixers and I could be taken hostage. And if that happened, I would have rather died than end up in an Islamic State video. So I'm sure some of you are thinking, why go there at all then? Because I sincerely and deeply believe that informing the public is absolutely crucial. Because we want the world to know what's happening there, so that victims can find justice and are not forgotten. And I also believe to a certain extent that it is also because we want or hope to make a difference. Anyway, that's how I see my job. I don't know if we all share this vision, but I think many of us who do it for this reason. That's what Paul Conroy, a photographer who was with Marie-Colvin when she was killed in Homs, explains. And I think he puts it well enough to understand why it's so important for reporters to keep going out into the field. She really believed that, and if we got more stories out, then we got the pictures out that we could actually stave off that we were witnessing. She thought she would change the world? Yeah, that's why she did all that. Ultimately, that is why she was there. We thought that if we got the story out the world would go: "HAng on, this army is going to destroy We have governments, we've got the UNited Nations. We have a moral responsibility to stop the slaughter of civilians. But all we can do is get the story out and go: "Here it is world, and we geniunely believe I think most journalists believe that they don't write or shoot or do whatever they're doing... They wanted to make a difference, they wanted to affect an outcome, And that's what we thought we were doing. June twenty seventeen Mosul, the Iraqi city that is the capital of ISIS, is about to fall. Black clouds of smoke rise from the fighting between Iraqi army soldiers and the last ISIS jihadists entrenched in the Old City district. So, I arrive at an extremely violent moment in the Battle of Mosul and head straight to the city's hospitals to film the civilian and military victims of this war. What happened exactly, It happened for the air. From the air? A bombing from the air? Adid, five years and her sister Ayasha, six years old, were injured in a bombing in West Mosul. The little boy must have a second operation today. he lost his eye. He had a severe wound to the eyeball. We had to perform an evisceration of the eye. There are many extremely difficult images in this documentary, but there are also many I couldn't show because they were too harsh, too violent, or too sad. I have memories of very violent scenes with fathers arriving with their children torn to pieces in their arms after we had heard a bombing, the violence of some gunshot wounds. It was a really difficult shoot, even though I'd already seen war wounds in Palestine and Africa. But there, with the context of the Islamic State that I've just given you, I think it was even more traumatizing to experience. And yet, that was just the beginning of a journey to hell, because a few weeks later, I was off to film the mass graves of the Islamic State. They killed the martyrs right here. Here, they lined them up in rows, These are masks for the eyes. and we can see the bullet holes and blood stains After executing them, they threw them in this hole. For this documentary, I traveled to various regions of Iraq and had the opportunity to film at the Spiker mass grave site. which is probably the largest massacre by the Islamic State in Iraq. We call it Spiker because it was the name of an old American military base in Tikrit city and the massacre happened right here. In June two thousand seventeen, in just two days, the terrorist organization killed over one thousand seven hundred young Iraqi soldiers on the banks of the Tigris. Seventeen hundred, it seems so unreal. It's really hard to get an idea of what that number represents. And I won't not show you the footage of this massacre, as they recorded everything. But it truly was a human slaughterhouse. And I was there when they began to dig up the bodies. You see, they are still decomposing. It's very hard to find children's bodies in mass graves Or pregnant women still carrying their babies. or stumble upon decapitated heads, thrown aside. We must be very strong and resilient. Sometimes you have to force yourself not to break down. This documentary had deeply moved me back then because I truly felt I had reached the end of inhumanity and I couldn't see anything tougher after that. And when I came back to France, I needed to see a therapist to talk about what I had seen. And I still go when I see things that are too difficult. But that hasn't stopped me from continuing to document crimes all over the world, because I think it's important to report them. And that's why a few months later, I went to the Philippines to report on new territories where the Islamic State was trying to establish itself. Bring along your team. We're going to the church. The rest of you, cover the rear. This is where the killing happened The hostages were kneeling down and the executioners dressed them in orange. They cuffed them They shot them down one by one, right here. In March two thousand nineteen, ISIS lost the battle of Baghouz. This marked the end of ISIS territory in Syria. And a few months later, I was able to enter one of the prisons where most of the jihadists from the terrorist group were being locked up. I must always let the guard go first. And I can't go any further. Actually, they told us that the further we go into the room, if there's the slightest problem, the harder it is to get back to the front door. The video had gone viral on social media back then. And I felt like I'd come full circle by finally meeting members of this organization that had terrorized the world. Islamic State made it very clear: they fight eye for an eye, What do you think about Bullshit question! Do you feel sorry for the French, You think you're gonna kill so many people, and the Islamic State will juste And finally, I come to this documentary, Black Stadium, that I made last June for Brut x. The Black Stadium was actually the haraka prison of ISIS jihadists. where they tortured and killed their prisoners. And during the filming I had the feeling that it might be the very last time I worked on the terrorist organization, because it is extremely difficult on a human level and because I'm not sure I want to go through that again. More filmings of such violent, inhumane and brutal crimes When I got out of prison, I slept on my mom's lap for a month. At first, I slept alone and woke up terrified. In my dreams, I'd see them coming to pick me up and take me away from the mosque or home. I'm still glad I filmed this documentary, But I hope the next time I return to this part of the world, it will be to tell a different story. I hope you enjoyed this video. It is somewhat longer than usual, but I thought it might interest you. Feel free to subscribe to Brut X to watch Stade Noir and my other documentaries. I'll put a link in the description so you can easily find the platform. Also, don't hesitate to subscribe to my YouTube channel and turn on the little bell so you won't miss my upcoming videos. I can't wait to show you what's next. Thank you for your support, see you soon.