- Imagine there's a hotel They're numbered one, two, This is the Hilbert Hotel Now it might seem like you could accommodate but there is a limit, a way to exceed even the infinity of rooms To start let's say only one and all the rooms are full. There are an infinite number of people, in an infinite number of rooms. Then someone new shows but all the rooms are occupied. So what should you do? Well, a lesser manager but you know about infinity. So you get on the PA and you tell all the So the person in room The one in room two moves to room three, and so on down the line. And now you can put the If a bus shows up with a hundred people, you know exactly what to do just move everyone down a hundred rooms and put the new guests But now let's say a bus shows and it's carrying infinitely many people. You knew what to do with but what do you do with infinite people? You think about it for a minute and then come up with a plan. You tell each of your existing guests to move to the room with So the person in room room two moves to room four, room three to room six and so on. And now all of the odd And you know, there are an So you can give each a unique, odd numbered room. This hotel is really starting to feel like it can fit everybody. And that's the beauty of infinity, it goes on forever. And then all of a sudden not just one or two, but an infinite number of infinite buses. So, what can you do? Well, you pull out an infinite You make a row for each bus, bus 1 bus 2 bus 3 and so on. And a row at the top for all the people who The columns are for the So you've got hotel room hotel room three, et cetera. And then bus one seat bus one seat three and so on. So each person gets a unique identifier which is a combination of their vehicle and their position in it. So how do you assign the rooms? Well start in the top left corner and draw a line that across the spreadsheet, going over each unique ID exactly once. Then imagine you pull on the straightening it out. So we've gone from an to a single infinite line. It's then pretty simple just to line up each person on that line with a unique room in the hotel. So everyone fits, no problem. But now a big bus pulls up. An infinite party bus with no seats. Instead, everyone on board is identified by their unique name, So their names all consist But each name is infinitely long. So someone is named A, B, B, and so on forever. Someone else is named AB, On this bus, there's a person with every possible infinite Now, ABB, A, A, A, A, I'll He comes into the hotel but you tell him, &quot;Sorry, there's no way we can And he's like, &quot;What do you mean? &quot;There's an infinite number of us &quot;and you have an infinite number of rooms. &quot;Why won't this work?&quot; So you show him. you pull out your infinite start assigning rooms So you have room one, assign it to ABBA, and then room two to And you keep going, of As and Bs beside each room number. &quot;Now here's the problem,&quot; you tell ABBA, &quot;let's say we have a &quot;I can still write down &quot;who doesn't yet have a room.&quot; The way you do it is you of the first name and Then take the second and flip it from a B to an A. And you keep doing this And the name you write down nowhere on that list. Because it won't match the or the second letter of the second name, or the third letter of the third name. It will be different from by at least one character. The letter on the diagonal. The number of rooms in the but it is countably infinite. Meaning there are as many rooms as there are positive By contrast, the number uncountably infinite. If you try to match up you will still have people leftover. Some infinities are bigger than others. So there's a limit to the in the Hilbert Hotel. This is mind blowing enough, but what's even crazier is that the discovery of different sparked a line of inquiry to the invention of the device you're watching this on right now. But that's a story for another time. (upbeat music)