- Hello, my friends. It's Dani. And today, I am showing in the most delicious way. This is a sauteed broccoli recipe that cooks with garlic and olive oil. It is so tasty, so easy to make. And dare I say, it's borderline addictive. Mm mm mm. Now, because this recipe I like to have my ingredients prepped and ready to go before I get to the stove, which doesn't take long at all since we only need a few ingredients. So I have one head of and I'm gonna separate the For this recipe, we're but you don't have to toss them. You can save them and use like my broccoli stem soup or you can give them a quick saute with a little garlic and olive oil and then scramble them into or just put them on top to get in some more greens As for the florets, you just in size so that they all I like to cut the really working from the stem up. And then once I get to the actual crown, I just pull it apart. This way, none of the little florets break or you don't get any It's a really easy, clean, And one head of broccoli should get you about four cups of florets. Now, the next ingredient I anywhere between four to six cloves depending on how big or depending on how much you like garlic. We really like garlic here. So I usually go towards the higher end. Now, the easiest way of the skins is just to lay put your knife right over the top, and give a gentle, firm tap, and it splits the skins and So once I've got 'em all peeled, I'm just gonna give them a rough chop and the garlic is ready to go. Other than my garlic and my broccoli, all I need for this recipe is some salt, pepper, extra virgin olive oil, and then a little bit of water as well. And if you like heat, some red pepper flakes but since I like to make I usually skip it. Now to cook the broccoli, I've got a nice big up over a medium heat. You don't want the heat to get too high because you run the risk So you just want something towards medium, medium-low, depending on your stove. Now, once the pan has heated up, I'm gonna add my olive oil to the pan. I'm using two tablespoons of olive oil. It doesn't look like a lot but it's really all you need. You just need enough to and just get the broccoli coated. If you wanted a little more you could even add a and that would get the job done. So once the oil is hot, I'm gonna add my garlic to the pan. I like to give the garlic mix it around, and let it You're just looking for the garlic to do a little dance in the pan. You're gonna see, it's gonna Again, we don't want it to brown. So once this is happening, So in goes my broccoli, along with a little bit more Now, from here, I just like to gently toss the broccoli with the oil and the garlic. You just want everything to and I'm just gonna let this And in that short period of time, you will notice that the broccoli goes from a dull green to a Once you have arrived, you So I've got a quarter cup and then I'm just gonna pop the lid on. Now, the broccoli is gonna I'm gonna set my timer anywhere between three and five minutes. If you like your broccoli go closer to five minutes. If you tend to like it with a little bite to it, you wanna come down to Now, if you enjoy really simple recipes like this one I'm sharing today, let me know by liking the video. And if you haven't already, because your feedback really on what type of content So I do appreciate that. Now, you'll see when I remove the lid, the broccoli is this beautiful, and it is fork tender just like this. That's how you know it's I just like to let it go at this point to let any leftover water that's in the pan evaporate out. From here, you are ready to And if you're cooking doing meal prep, which then once it cools, just transfer and it will last in your fridge I cannot wait for you to I will see you all back here next time with some more Clean &amp; Deliciousness. Cheers!