Moulay. He is an expert. Will he go down alone We might stay down for two days. I am an architect! They gained their experience in Sudan. These are the masters of the sand. ...in these Arabic sands It is the Islamic Republic of Mauritania. An entire underground city of gold. It contains branching tunnels They started in 2016 when a man You have to sacrifice. ...and it's regulated by the state now. Today we will mine with them until the last moment, This is the land of Chinguetti, the land of the million poets. This is an Arab country Mauritania. One of the kindest people in the world. Welcome to Mauritania. Mauritania is the most beautiful country It's a beautiful country. Welcome to Mauritania! Fish wealth is one as it exports ...to almost all parts of the world. We are in the largest port in Mauritania Look at the number of boats! Iron is the most important source Iron ores are transported which is the longest as it crosses from the city of Zouerat to the largest port in Mauritania ...as they export them copper, phosphate, and gold! Yes, we are going to the gold miners. To go see the gold, we left the city of Nouakchott where there is an entire town The air was very dusty. The Sahara Desert extends across Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, Sudan, and is the largest hot desert It is the largest after Antarctica, as it is also considered a desert, We arrived at the city of Chami, where prospectors buy their equipment. We are now in the city of Chami, where the prospector stops before heading to the mining areas This iron pulley comes with a rope. They use this tool use for digging. From here in the city of Chami Does gold contribute Gold has contributed and its large revenues have contributed The state also gave it great importance by establishing a special institution -You mean it's official now? -laws! -Gold laws! We then drove an hour where the City of Gold is located. It is a strange place and many people in one place. These are the gold miners. Imagine how many holes there are here. They are full of gold. They extract the rocks to extract the gold. Some people died because of mining, Skill and strength. Come here. This is not safe. Look at this! It's scary. It's too dangerous, huh? They say it's dangerous. I think it's hard to walk here at night. They introduced us to Moulay, How many times have you gone down -About 600 or 700 times. Yes. -What is the furthest depth you descended? 48 meters in this narrow hole? Yes. -Did you get gold? -Is everything okay?? Take care, brother. You can do it. I hope you return safely. The most important thing is to take care. -Forget about the camera and take care. -Is the camera working? May God protect you. He'll go down into the tunnel network and extract some gold for us. -Moulay, how are you? He descends through the ropes. -Is he breathing normally now? There's little oxygen down there, right? We sleep and take a nap down there. -We sleep in there. -We sleep down there. We stay down there for 24 hours, eating and drinking down there. -We drink tea down there. Yes. And we sleep down there. Do you get me? We may stay down for two days -You collect gold only. We sleep and wake up down there. We stay down for 24 hours. They stay down for 24 hours We take down the food This is... This is the tunnel. We walk from here. There is a tunnel here, another one, and another one. These are rocks that contain gold. There is a toilet in the tunnel. There is a city below. -A city of miners. We get in from here and out from there. You enter from here where Moulay entered. There are a lot of tunnels. This rock contains gold. -So it's like an underground town? There are roads and people walking It's a city, a world! There is a tunnel here. This tunnel here is not safe. -Your life is at risk at any moment. This is the equipment. This is my current workplace. This is a rock that contains gold. They gained experience in Sudan. They have experience in Sudan. How was it? -Difficult. Thank god you are back safely. This place is called the Angel of Death -Deadly? Whoever goes in is considered dead. Why these names? Yes, there are a lot of stories. Look these rocks contain gold. These rocks they bring from below Look at this. Look. This is where they get their gas. This pipe goes down the holes They descend to 50 meters. Hello. How are you? These are the real gold miners Now they will send the rocks We will film the refining at the end. We'll show you the gold! This is a bath for showering. This is Mamoto, he's the mine supervisor. -Mamoto, nice to meet you. These holes you see empty at the top They told me this guy had been down How do you feel? Tired? How many hours did you stay down? 10 hours? He's been down for 10 hours. This job is one of the most difficult -This supplies them with oxygen. The miner is mining -22 meters? -There are five people. There are five people inside this hole. Okay, this is it. This is gold ore. The equipment is primitive, but look at this guy who owns 16 mines and hires workers. He stays at home and coordinates business online. -What's that? Is it a mosque? When it is time for prayer, I am the muezzin of the mosque. Mosque muezzin, here among the gold mines! They do not go to the mines They do not go to the mines They have not forgotten their prayers I left all my equipment in the car. &quot;you're in Mauritania.&quot; Fear not, there are no thieves here. Don't worry at all. They are here for one goal. We are here for one purpose. -Gold and nothing else, neither copper nor silver. -He loves working in gold mining. It's gold, everyone loves gold. They extract gold from here every day. The Mauritanians didn't know -They suddenly discovered it. then went to the capital and then people started coming here God bless. This is the country of gold. It's amazing how you do such hard work Oh, my God! Now we are going to see and see the gold Before we continue, guys, this is Wego, a globally trusted app for travel. I use it to book my trips. You will find the best offers for tickets Try it out because the next video They also have multiple payment methods and 24/7 customer service. Download the application now! We went to refine gold and it turned out that there was Alchami. These rocks are full of gold, so they come here to refine them. I will tell you more about it, wait. They come to these workshops It's an amazing process, where they turn rocks into liquid. Yes, it turns into a liquid. Then they put this liquid into the pond Mercury reacts quickly with gold. No, all these riches are in Mauritania. Look at these ponds. This is mercury. It's this silvery metal. Look at this entire city, here in Mauritania -How many grams is this? Don't scare him. There are many houses, and in every house, -This is a world by itself. -It's like a mining school. The state forces them to sell it to it, but they prefer the black market. Look how rich Mauritania is in gold Look at these, they extracted them we were at a little while ago. The miners here get paid, right? Or do they take a share? No, they sell it directly. -The miner sells it to... The same miners who go down sell the gold here which is the state, Mauritania! Come to Mauritania. He closed the door. This is worth $800. Do you see it? Only this piece. Welcome to Mauritania. Thank you, Mauritania. Wait for part two. Mauritania is called