Many historians of science share the theory that science always has its origin in a practical necessity. Geometry, a mathematical branch that abstracts the forms of space and is applied in numerous disciplines, began with the resolution of conflicts in the distribution of land ownership. Already in ancient Egypt there was the figure of the surveyor, a person who was in charge of dividing the surface of the land, due to the fact that the annual overflows of the Nile erased the boundaries of the properties, making it necessary for them to appear graphically on plans in order to be able to do so. thus, rebuild them. In the Zaragoza town of Mallen, Pedro Cerdan has carried out this activity as a complement to his job as a farmer for almost fifty years. I learned with my father since I was little, and then I continued on that path alone. Pedro is going to offer us today a demonstration of how he carried out his job. In this practical case, the surveyor must commission the segregation of a part of the land surface. The first thing you do when you arrive is to walk around the field to look at the contour and see how it can be broken down into geometric figures to measure it. We are going to place the first flag in a segregation that we are going to make of this field. We are going to take about three four anegas, which is what they have told us we have to segregate from the field. Then we are going to place the first flag and we are going to see what geometric figure we get. Now we go to the other corner. The first thing I do is stick a pull in one corner, another pull in the other corner, let's say, and with both look at the rest of the geometric figures that can be made. Pedro and Agustin, his assistant, trace with the markers or flags the vertices that establish the figures of a rectangle and a triangle that delimit and compose the parts of the land. A little to the right Agustin, straight, straight until those bushes that you see in front of you. I'll tell you. Okay, take a flag and put it up. A little bit to the right, upside down, there. Nail. The precision in the drawing of the angles that the milestones establish with each other was one of the indicators of the good work of the surveyor. As you can see that the base is much wider, we will make a triangle. Since we don't have a squad, putting one in the direction that this bank goes, with this other one and the flag that we have there, well, I'll make a squad, because if we have to put it more here, then more here. You will say hey Pedro. More, more, about ten meters more. Put the one that is straightest. A little bit to the right, a little bit more. A little more, four fingers, like that. Nail. Now that the flags are in place and we know what geometric figures they are, we are going to make the sketch where we are going to capture the corresponding measurements. We have an irregular rectangle and then we have a triangle. Which is more or less the segregation that we are going to do in this field. More or less what we have been told we have to do. To measure it we do it with a metric chain, the way it works is that in the countryside you always measure fields with bushes, with some bushes, it is a bit windy, so the measuring tape often breaks. It breaks or wobbles in the wind, with the metric chain that is millimeter you can measure it perfectly the same and you don't have those problems that you have with the tape. 19'50, A moment to point Every ten meters, the total length of the chain, Agustin nails a handlebar that serves to establish a reference and continue with the measurements. It's already measured. It is essential that the metric chain is always horizontal with respect to the ground and thus overcome unevenness in the terrain, which depends directly on the experienced eye of the surveyor. 18, 20, 40, 60. Ok Augustine. Now wait for me to point. Let's see, tighten it a little. We have 19, 20, 40, 60. 19.60 After measuring the field and establishing the two surfaces, Pedro calculates their measurements. 5 + 3 = 8 Most people like to know the surface of what we measure when we're done. You can't do that with a tachymeter because you have to look at the reduction of the false squares that They take the latitude from the GPS, they have to do everything, however with this very simple method and although it costs you much more, you are lucky that when you finish the surface, you know the total surface area of the field, and that people wanted to know in how much you finished If it took you two, three or four hours, how long is it? Well, so much. Which is impossible with new devices. Well now we have finished adding the two surfaces, and it gives us a total area of 876.05 square meters. It would only be marking it, either by staking it, or with other types of elements and that the owner is satisfied. Precisely, one of the golden rules of the surveyor was that he should never begin measuring without the agreement of the parties involved. The surveyors thus resolved the conflicts and problems that arose in the purchase and sale, exchanges or distribution of land, with the application of their geometric knowledge. This meant that in the rural world, the figure of the surveyor obtained the reputation of an upright person who imparted knowledge and justice. We were recognized people, let's call them fair or let's call them that we simply did things well. I am Eugenio Monesma, director and producer of the documentary you just watched. If you liked it, I encourage you to subscribe to the channel by activating notifications from the bell and so you can enjoy the hundreds of documentaries that I already have on the channel and which I will be uploading weekly.