(funky jazz music) - [Announcer] Today on Erin makes Bridget roast Lisa shares her favorite mops and Dan makes Julia oatmeal dinner rolls. It's all coming up right here (funky jazz music) - Roasting a whole turkey for Thanksgiving is certainly iconic, but what if you're just feeding or maybe they only like to eat white meat? Well, a turkey breast might be She's gonna show us a great I have to say, the only thing - You will not be disappointed. - Okay. So we're gonna roast It's easier and more and it's also easier to carve. So we're gonna start I have a seven-pound turkey breast here. It's whole bone in, and Sometimes they don't come with a backbone. So if that's the case, Number one, either you which we are making, or one pound of chicken wings. - Okay. - There will be gravy. - There will be gravy, I promise. Anytime you work with to just pat it dry so It's safer and a cleaner as well. - Okay. the backbone. So do you see that white line right there? - Yes. white line all the way up to the back, and I'm gonna take kitchen So again, I'm gonna just follow, I'm gonna trim along this white line. So now I'm gonna grab this and I'm gonna pop up the shoulder joints. There's two- - Now I'm just gonna cut through the joint and just separate this out. All right, so now I'm just So as it roasts, you really want that skin to cover the meat. I don't wanna over trim, so it's not hanging over. - We are all trimmed up. The next step is I'm gonna and I wanna keep the skin intact so I don't wanna pop through it. So I'm gonna use my hand and my fingers and kind of get under any connective tissue. And sometimes you might need the knife just to kind of separate it out. - So better to do this right in the middle with your hand. - Exactly. - [Erin] All right, so that's one side. And again, just kinda work it back and expose the whole side of the breast. Now I'm gonna do the other side. So we've exposed all of the meat. The skin is still attached. So now I'm gonna take a and I'm gonna rub it on one And then I'm just gonna kind And I'm gonna repeat on the other side. - All right. of kosher salt. - So this is really important to get the salt directly on the meat. - We are salting the meat, exactly. The salt is going to And over time, the meat And so, that's gonna help the And it's also gonna kind of and it's gonna allow it to hold onto more moisture as it roasts. - Got it. a juicier turkey. - All right. now I'm just going to salt the underside with another teaspoon of kosher salt, 'cause there is a little And just wanna make sure Now I'm just kind of is over the meat and that everything's looking good. Put it on a plate and this is for 24 hours without a cover on it. The air circulation is gonna and that's gonna give us a crisper skin. And that time is also gonna - Okay. I have our 24-hour salted air-dried turkey breast. - Right. And as you can tell, skin is It shows that it has dried out. That's gonna give us a much crispier skin. And we're in a 12-inch skillet. I'm gonna brush this with two This is gonna help the Now I'm gonna season it of kosher salt. As you know, the meat has been seasoned, and now we're just making sure that the skin has a - Got it. the first stage of cooking. We have the oven preheated to 325 degrees, and we're gonna roast this for between an hour to an hour and a And we're only gonna cook it until it's 130 degrees - All right, I still don't see gravy. - Yes, well, I have a sauce pan heating with two teaspoons of extra So when that starts to shimmer, I'm going to add our turkey bags. Just pat the turkey bags dry. A lot of people throw these away. Don't throw it away, there's a ton of skin that's gonna render and give us some fat. And there's also some meat around the ribs that is gonna give us a (olive oil sizzles) So I'm gonna let this cook for and what I'm looking that I put face down. I want that skin to starting to throw off some of its fat. - All right. - Building flavor. I'm gonna go wash my hands. Okay, and in about six minutes or so, I'm gonna show you what I So that skin has really rendered, now as it renders, it browns. Again, it's adding flavor, So now the next step is we're gonna add one small chopped onion and one carrot, and also one stalk of - Okay. So we're gonna let this I'm gonna stir it occasionally. And what we're looking and to start to get brown. So as you can see, the and you can see that on them as well. I'm gonna add five cups of water. I want the flavors of the to really kind of infuse into the water to create the base for our gravy. - All right. I'm gonna add two sprigs of I'm gonna bring this up to a boil, and once it comes up to a boil, I'm gonna reduce the and just gonna let it for all those flavors to - Fantastic. Ooh. - Yeah, it's been about an hour, Bridget, and now we're just gonna But in the meantime, can you please turn the oven temperature You got it. This is always a good safety tool, just so I don't burn myself. It's a reminder. So let's just check the temperature. We're looking for 130 - 130. And as you can see, the but this is just the Let's go over to our broth. So this has been simmering Now I'm just gonna strain this And we should have about four cups. (mixture splashes) Hm, It's holding that turkey go plop and splash me. We're looking for about four cups, and we're right there, Bridget. - All right. And this is stage two of cooking. So now we're gonna finish of 500 degrees, higher temperature. And what that's gonna do and make it beautifully golden brown. And it's gonna finish to 160 degrees. - Okay. Oh, beautiful. - [Erin] Perfection, - That is stunning. Look at how beautiful the skin is. Yes, it's that 500-degree Really crisped up the skin. You can just tell it is I'm gonna temp it, take the temperature. And this should be 160 We nailed it. We're gonna let him rest - Okay. Look at all that turkey fat. - [Erin] Turkey fat is flavor. We wanna capture that. So we want about a quarter of a cup, but I'm just gonna pour all of that off, if we didn't have a quarter cup, but you can just top it off with a little bit of vegetable oil. So I'm gonna add this back to the pan. We're gonna start making our - [Bridget] Yes. - So I'm gonna turn this to medium heat. I'm gonna add a quarter cup of flour, and I'm just gonna stir So what I'm doing is I'm Gonna cook it for about one minute until it's nice and brown. And that's gonna also give our roux and ultimately our gravy more flavor. So I'm gonna add a (mixture fizzes) - Starting to deglaze. - Yes, now I'm gonna whisk this in, scraping up more of those brown bits. And we're just cooking it just Now I'm gonna take our turkey and I'm just gonna add this - Otherwise you get big lumps. a lumpy gravy. And I'm a little bit afraid of you. This gravy, it better be good, right? - I actually have a low just as long as it's free. - And a lot of it. - Oh, today's your lucky day, Bridget. - [Bridget] I like to serve - As you can see, I'm still of brown bits that I can find. So now we're gonna and I'm gonna cut the for about 20 minutes, and it's gonna reduce And I'm gonna be stirring it occasionally just to make sure that it doesn't stick. - All right. nice and thick. - I'm on gravy watch. This is simmered for about 20 minutes. As you can see, it's gotten So now I just wanna taste it, make sure that it's seasoned nicely. (Bridget laughs) Beautiful, I almost turned - Did the wing. I'm gonna say it's perfectly seasoned. So now I'm just gonna pour and then we're gonna Here's our gorgeous turkey, and it's rested for about 30 minutes. And again, this is a little bit easier than carving a whole turkey, right? So we're just removing And can you hear that skin? - That's a great sign. That's exactly what we want. The breast bone is so I'm just kind of cutting putting my knife through I just kind of use the And one of the biggest meat off of the ribcage. So again, I'm using my boning knife using the top tip of it. And I'm just making a kind of against that ribcage. - That little keel bone there. - Really, following the bone structure. - Really following the bone. Yep, and I'm holding It's cool enough to hold. - [Erin] Okay, so we're ready to carve. So now I'm just slicing Look at those juices. There's some on the board, but I know that there's juice that is in the turkey, - It's gorgeous. - Gorgeous. Okay, the time has come - I'm so ready. Oh my gosh, you can tell it's just juicy as I lift it up and it just drapes. That just tells to me how much moisture is And now the moment you - Yes. - Gravy. I'm not going to pour it over the breast. I'm gonna pour it around it, okay? - Save that crisp skin. - Hm. The true test. And I even separated it from the skin. That is tasty. - That is really, really good. - Nicely seasoned throughout. - That's turkey breast, right? - That's turkey breast, yes. - It's not some sort of trick? Hmm, so often people use the gravy to save the dry turkey breast, but in this case, the and the gravy is just shining. - This is top 10 turkey recipes. - Awesome, Bridget. I'm so glad you like it. - Well, you're gonna wanna give yourself a leg up this Thanksgiving by just making a roast turkey breast. And to do that, remove the salt the meat, and then Roast the turkey in a skillet and use a quick broth to and a lot of gravy from roast whole turkey breast - And more gravy. At &quot;America's Test is serious business. - Head over to AmericasTestKitchen.com and unlock 14,000 expert-developed recipes and 8,000 unbiased product reviews all rigorously tested by our team. - Access every episode of every season of your favorite cooking shows. That's 38 seasons of inspiration. - And with the ATK members app, you'll have 30 years of anywhere, anytime. Join us and become a smarter cook. - Start your free at AmericasTestKitchen.com today. (funky jazz music) - Whether you wanna mop up a big spill, scrub a sticky stain, or just give your floors you need a wet mop that's easy to operate, absorbent and durable. We tested several different including some that came with buckets. After making and cleaning up we had a winner, the O-Cedar easy-wring, This thing had no problem coffee, and stuck-on food spills. It was incredibly absorbent, but also really lightweight and nimble. It comes with a bucket that's easy-to-use and wrings out water remarkably well. We also chose a favorite standalone mop. The rubber-made microfiber twist mop. This mop was particularly excellent at scrubbing up tough stains, but its wringer took a Both mops have machine-washable nice and clean again and - Hey there, fellow fans of cooking. Wanna stay in the know? - [Julia] Visit AmericasTestKitchen.com and sign up for our free Notes from the Test - Get exclusive tips, seasonal and more delivered straight to your inbox. - Sign up for free at (funky jazz music) Dan tells me that adding oatmeal to a dinner roll is magical. Now why is that, Dan? - So, we're obviously by adding oats to a roll, but we're actually gonna get incredible texture out of it as well. Normally you think about adding oats or heavy ingredients, and - Yeah, mushy. - The opposite is gonna happen. And I'll show you Is it is magic. In my book, it's magic. - Okay. I'm in. - So we're gonna start of old-fashioned rolled oats And then we're going to add two thirds of a cup of boiling water. Obviously, we wanna be accurate And the best way to measure boiling water is to bring it to a boil not the other way, 'cause you end up with a lot less usually. - [Julia] Yep. - All right, that looks great. We have two thirds of a cup. So add this to our oats, of unsalted butter that have Give us a quick stir. So I'm gonna let this and you'll see that a lot of and the butter will completely melt. - Okay. you can see that that water It looks like- - Oatmeal, right? And that's exactly what we want. So oats are really they're packed with this special compound called pentosans. And pentosans can absorb way and about 10 times their weight in liquid. - Oh wow. - And that means that we can in this dough. So when we trap that water, it makes the dough So you don't really feel that when you're working with it, But then in the heat of and it really lightens the rolls. - [Julia] Nice. - So we're gonna build the rest And I have one and a This is gonna give us lots of structure, which 'cause we're also adding three quarters of a cup of wholewheat flour. - And I'm also gonna add a then a quarter of a cup of molasses. Again, this helps boost that oat flavor, gives them a beautiful color as well. So the molasses is gonna be You wanna avoid using black It's just a little too it'll take over everything. Also, have one and a or rapid rise yeast and And that is it. - Pretty straightforward. So now we just transfer it We're gonna use our dough hook. And what I'm gonna do until it just comes together. It might look a little bit dry, but all the ingredients will be mixed. That takes about a minute. (food mixer whirs) All right, so I'm just gonna scrape down and make sure everything So now we're gonna increase to medium low and we're gonna knead until It's still gonna stick to And so, that's gonna (food mixer whirs) Okay, perfect. - Magic. So you can see that it's actually a relatively wet dough here. We're sticking to the bottom a little bit, which is totally fine, but This is perfect. Now we're gonna get it You'll actually see that at this point. So if you want, you can if you need to, if it's sticking too much. But really we're just trying to make a really basic round here. Beautiful, okay. So I'm gonna place this seam side down in my grease bowl here and So we're gonna let this rise which will take anywhere from an hour to an hour and 15 minutes. Our beautiful dough has doubled in volume. So I'm gonna save this plastic wrap. We'll put it back to use and So I'm just gonna pat it with my hands to an eight-inch square. Now use my bench scraper, we're gonna cut this into 12 pieces. So to do that, I'm gonna so I really know what I'm doing. I'm gonna go three across. You can also weigh these out if you want, if you prefer to do that. There are two and a quarter and I'll go four in this direction. Okay, great, we have 12 pieces here and now I've got a section and that's really helpful for shaping. So what we're gonna do is I'm gonna cup our hand around it and really, I have my and my three other fingers are up. And I'm just gonna work Now, the bottom of the roll, and then you're just dragging and it helps tighten it up. And you're tucking more and And so, you end beautiful like that. - Nice. - So I'm gonna place it seam side down in our nine-inch greased - Cake pan. So this is actually a for baking especially rolls like this, it provides a ton of structure so all the rolls are gonna touch and that helps them rise up, 'cause they can't go out. So get even taller rolls that way. - That makes sense. - [Dan] I'm gonna go and then three in the middle. - [Julia] Okay. - So I saved my plastic wrap And we're gonna let these double in size and we're really looking And it's really hard to over proof these. So keep going until there's and then you'll get And that's gonna take anywhere - Okay. - At Cook Illustrated, we're food nerds. That's why every recipe we cooking science, and rigorous testing by our team of expert test cooks. Before being tested by of 40,000 home cooks, only the highest-rated in our award-winning magazine. Every issue features our latest recipes and discoveries, cooking tips and equipment and ingredient reviews. Our step-by-step photos and hand-drawn illustrations how to succeed, where you won't see even a We've worked for home cooks So are you ready to become Subscribe to Cook's Illustrated magazine at CooksIllustrated.com today. - So these rolls will and will stay tender and moist for days. And that's because we used oatmeal. Now in the past, we've and a similar processes that work here. Our recipe uses about 14 to about 11 ounces of water. Now that's a lot of liquid for those dry ingredients So if it's all mixed together at once, it would come out more like Instead of mixing we boil some of the water letting the mixture steep for 10 minutes. During this time, the and pentosans in the oats creating an oatmeal porridge. Then we add flour plus a little And because the starch and pentosans continue to hold onto that water that's already been absorbed, the resulting mixture that's not sticky at all. And that's why oatmeal in these dinner rolls. - So the rolls have pretty This took about an hour, is you can't see any spaces between them. - Yeah. they're gonna have lots of support as they spring and rise in the oven. So the final step is we want them to be beautifully burnished, and that means an egg wash. So I've got a whole egg here. I'm gonna add a pinch of And what both of these the egg mixture a little bit. The salt impacts the proteins so that they stretch a little And then the water obviously to the mix, and that's gonna make to get an even thin coat of Okay, great, that's nice and thin. I like to use a pastry brush for this. - [Julia] Yeah, just a - Okay, beautiful. Everything has a gossamer Now we have four more teaspoons of old-fashioned rolled oats. This is for garnish. - So I'm just gonna Let everyone know what's inside. Okay, our rolls are ready to bake. So they're gonna go I'm gonna cook them until and they're gonna be Takes 25 to 30 minutes. - Okay. - They're beautiful. So we're looking for 195 and we got 198, that's perfect. - [Julia] Good enough? - Mm-mm, stunners. - Right, so we're gonna let just to cool down a little bit and then we'll flip 'em out of the pan. - [Julia] Okay. - They've cooled for three minutes, so then we're gonna flip 'em - Presto-changeo. - Yeah, here's the magic. It's happening throughout the recipe. Great, and then we'll just flip them back. - [Julia] They came out of - [Dan] Just lovely clumped They look so awesome. So we'll let these cool and then we can rip them apart, tear in. Maybe we'll get some butter involved. - [Julia] Sounds good. - [Dan] Okay, it is time to - [Julia] Aha, well, the proof - [Dan] And in the oatmeal. - [Julia] Oh-ho-ho, look at that. - [Dan] So you can already just based on that kind - Mm, I'm a sucker for soft dinner rolls. They have a hearty flavor. You can taste the oatmeal. I can taste the wholewheat, But this light, feathery texture. - [Dan] It almost seems impossible, right? - Yeah. all that, the wholewheat and have it be, rich but then have it actually - Dan, these are fabulous, thank you. - You're welcome. magical recipe for oatmeal dinner rolls. Start by soaking old-fashioned rolled oats with boiling water to make a porridge. Use a combination of bread and use a cake pan to help the From &quot;America's Test Kitchen&quot; oatmeal dinner rolls. You can get this recipe and all along with select episodes and our product reviews at our website, AmericasTestKitchen.com/tv. These are fantastic. - Are they gonna be on - They're not even gonna (Julia and Dan laugh) We hope you enjoyed this video as much as we enjoyed making it. - Don't forget to hit that Like button and subscribe to our channel. - And if you're ready to take your cooking to the next level, head over to AmericasTestKitchen.com and get a free all-access - While you're there, you can sign up for our free email newsletters - With unlimited access to over 14,000 of our Test Kitchen recipes you'll have everything you - So I ask, what are you waiting for? - Let's make something great together.