Hey guys! It's Wendy. Welcome back to my channel! and if you're new around here, this may come as a surprise, but I hope you love it... Hair hug!! You guys loved my last hair hack video so much that I teamed up with Sugar Bear Hair again to bring you guys another one. This time, it's a little bit lazier Some of these hairstyles are so easy to do but look so amazing. Thanks to my partnership with Sugar Bear Hair, I am being sent to LA to do a meet and greet and I'm so excited to meet my LA fam! If you guys are in the area and wanna hang out, I want to give you guys hugs. Check out the description box for the details. Hold up! If you guys aren't part of the fam yet here already, It doesn't matter where you are in the world, it's so easy to join. Just click the subscribe button! We hit 3 million fam members and I wanted to do a huge thank you to you guys. So I'm giving away 3 Macbook Airs to show my appreciation because you guys are the bomb. You are always watching my videos, supporting me, appreciating me, leaving me the sweetest comments in the world and to enter it is so simple! You only need to be part of the family because it is a thank you gift. and second thing you need to do is to be part of my vlog squad which means subscribe to my vlog channel use the link down below, and there are so many great things in the description box including a bonus giveaway entry. Good luck! And, oh my gosh guys, if we can get this video to a 150,000 likes... I know you guys can do it because you guys are the most amazing fam. We did it so quickly last week, like, wow! If we can do again this week that would be so cool! Without further ado, let's get straight to the video because there are so many exciting things to show you guys today. Let's go! What are you eating? (smug) Chocolate sundae (hum of amusement) What are you eating now? Doritos? You can't have any (another hum of amusement) What are you eating this time?! Filet o fish? No wonder why you are always complaining that your hair is dry; you're like, not eating any vitamins (Eat fruit or something) But it taste so goooooood People.. just never learn I'll eat it-- I'll eat it tomorrow.. If you want your hair strong and shiny, sometimes the most important thing is actually your diet so make sure you're getting the nutrients and vitamins you need in your food and some vitamins that are super great for your hair are Vitamins A, C, D, E, B6, B9, B12, Biotin, lodine and Zinc before when you're travelling or have a really crazy schedule having a supplement can actually help fill any missing gaps. I prefer having mine in a gummy form because it's just so tasty and Sugar Bear Hair is simply formulated to ensure your hair health and growth. It's so tasty, cute, and also vegetarian friendly. You can get these off their website or Amazon and I've linked it down below. I love these amazing hairstyles I see on Pinterest but I always feel like they are so difficult and time consuming, that I never thought I could do one. But here's a super easy, pull out braid for you guys that you can do in five minutes. And it looks so amazing you'd never guess how easy it was. And plus, you don't even need to know how to braid. All you need are just some small, clear elastic bands and a clip. Now just take a small section of hair from the top of your head and tie it into a pony tail. Clip it up and take the remaining top section from around your temples. Pull it back And tie it just under your first pony tail. Unclip the first pony tail. Split it in half and then flip your second one up and clip it. Next, add some more hair into the first pony tail And then tie it again just under your second pony tail. Do the same thing and unclip your previous sections. Split it in half and then pull your new section up through the middle and clip. I like to call this process the 'Split-N- Clip'. Now, take the remaining hair and tie it into the pony tail and you should have no loose hair left at this point. Now, repeat the split and clip process all the way until you reach the end of your hair. Also, at this point, you wanna note that the two sections that you've created should have a similar amount of hair in them. So, if you have one much thicker than the other, then your braids may look a little bit uneven. But you may like that. It's completely up to you. Once you finished the split and clip, just tie the ends together with an elastic band. And we're gonna start pulling apart this braid to make it look fuller, thicker, and super amazing Simply start at the top section of the braid and pull it apart with your fingers. You wanna keep the middle intact to try and hide your elastic bands, but feel free to pull out the edges of the braid as much as you want. Then work your way all the way down until you are happy with it! You can make it messy, you can make it neat. It's really up to you, and you can make it look however you like. You can leave the front of your hair as it is, but I like to pull out some bits to really soften up the look. And now you're done! I found this so straightforward to do And oh, my gosh, how pretty does this look? Sulfates are industrial-strength cleaning ingredients that you should avoid in your shampoo, especially if your hair is color treated. You'll literally be washing your two-hundred-dollar dye job down the drain. Instead, try using SLS-free shampoo. It'll usually say on the bottle if it's sulfate-free, or otherwise, you can look in the ingredients to see if it does contain sulfates. These shampoos not only damage your hair less, but you'll help you keep your color in for longer. This is crazy! I'm actually ready on time for once! Just got to pin this flyaway and then, I'm ready to g... What?! Where did it..? I was just holding it... Okay. Let's try this again. What's going on? Who's taking them?! (voiceover) If you're like me, you'll feel like you lose your bobby pins all the time. Even if I'm literally holding one, 1 second later, it'll be gone and I'll have no idea where it went. A great way to keep track of them is to use a tic-tac container, which is super cute and gives you an excuse to buy more tic tacs. Another thing you can do is to stick a magnetic strip on the side of an accessories holder or your dressing table or anywhere really like on the wall, on your mirror and the magnet will just hold them in place neatly until you're ready to use it and plus when you take them out at night, you have somewhere to put them as well instead of just throwing it on the table or on the bed, which is what I usually do. and my bobby pins have never looked so neat before in my whole entire life! Man... she's so pretty, but I'm here looking like a potato. That's the hair I want! I want that -- that one. I want that. *Sigh* I'll never get curls like her, I don't even have a hair curler. If you want some curls, but, you don't have a curling wand, you can actually use a metallic utensil to create the same effect. Just heat it up with your hair dryer and when it's hot, twist your hair around it. But be careful not to burn yourself because the metal does actually get quite hot. Just keep in mind; thinner handles will create crimps and the bigger, the rounder utensil, the bigger the curl. I can't wait to meet all my friends we are going to have a picnic. its so sunny:) I am going to do small braid actually. I think that looks super cute! Gonna tie it with a band and... Where? umm... wait? Talking: So if you don't have any small, clear, elastics for your braids, this next hack will be a lifesaver. Just braid your hair -- as per usual -- and at the end, stick a bobby pin vertically up through the middle of the braid, using the rounded end to wrap around the end of the braid to stop it from coming undone and to secure it in place. You can hide the rest of the bobby pin in the braid as well so you don't see it. To hide the end of the bobby pin, all you need to do is get a bit of excess hair, twist it around the bits that you can see and then, kind of just wedge it through the bobby pin at the back then you're done! From a distance, your braids look magically tied together like nothing is holding it in place and it looks so super &quot;tumblr-y!&quot; Regrowth is my #1 worst enemy and literally the bane of my unicorn hair existence. A simple thing to do, is to part it in a zigzag. By doing this, your regrowth line won't be as obvious and it'll look like an ombre effect. Lastly, you can try and hide your roots with a cute headband! Just put your headband over your roots, and you're done. oh my gosh, I am so late. Why does this always happen to me?! Ok, I just dried my hair, do my makeup... Oh my god, what to do? I only got like, 10 minutes... Think... You look like you could use some help there, huh???? Wengie: Can you, can you hold my hair dryer for me while I do my makeup? Imaginary friend: Uhh, what do you think I am? I am literally just your imaginary friend. Wengie: Oh. :( Imaginary friend: But I have an idea! *snaps Fingers* Honestly, guys, I thought this was a little bit silly when I saw it, but this is actually awesome and it totally works. Just pop your hair dryer into a drawer to hold it up or you can stick one of those hair drying... holder rings on a wall somewhere, it might take a bit of time to find a good angle for the hair dryer, but this is something I can definitely see myself doing because I am always late. Or if you're not late and you're just lazy like me, you can use this hack to dry your hair while going on your phone. So, yeah, totally sign me up for this one! Don't you hate it when you're studying and you just want an easy way to clip your hair out from your face, but your clip just keeps slipping off? Sometimes, clips are just made of super slippery plastic material, just, that just won't grip to your hair. But don't throw them away yet. You can easily improve the grip by getting a hot glue gun and gluing the inside of each tooth with a strip of hot glue. When it dries, it'll work like those clips you can buy from the store with the non-slip ends that are probably twice the price. So I just saved you home bodies some money and a trip to the drugstore. So this is by far the easiest way to hack a messy bun, and it works for me every time. Just get a sock that you don't use anymore and cut off the toe section. And then roll it up until it looks like a band or a... a sock donut, maybe? I'm going to braid a piece of hair to one side because I want to show you guys how different a messy bun can look by just adding this one extra element, but you can totally skip this if you'd like. Next, tie your hair up in a ponytail and you can do it high or low depending on where you want your bun to sit. Grab your sock donut and pull the ends of your hair through, split it around the sides, and then start rolling your hair around it all the way up the ponytail. Keep flipping it up and your hair will literally cover up your sock donut, and it'll end up looking like a perfect messy bun and you won't be able to know that there's actually a sock underneath. The amazing thing is that the elasticity of the sock actually does a really great job in holding the bun together without any hair ties, but you can use some bobby pins to tidy up any parts that are sticking out or secure it. You want to neaten it up as well. But yeah, that's pretty much it. How cute is this? Look guys, I love how the braid just makes it look so elegant and by adding some flowers in this, you could totally even wear this to a wedding or a special occasion! And all in under five minutes! Oh my gosh you guys! How cool are some of these hair styles? I thought they were so complicated, but they ended up being so simple and if you guys wanted to do some of these, don't forget to share it with me on #wengiecorns 'Cuz I love talking with you guys during the week it just makes me super happy when it helps you guys. But yeah let's totally hang out during the week on my social media, so don't forget to follow me on Snapchat, Twitter, Instagram and my vlog channel. But until then, I am gonna miss you guys so much and I'll see you guys next week, bye! Love you!