Hey everyone, if you haven't heard yet, Terrence and this time he was joined by Eric Weinstein, What resulted was four hours of comedy gold, so Now Eric and his brother Bret are famous for being deserve an episode unto themselves. But that will to highlight some idiotic things that Terry says, explain precisely how idiotic they are in a way to make it clear that most of what Terry says is charitable because he places a higher premium on than offering a firm voice of reason. That Joe another in a long string of disappointments, so point, but it really is sad that he couldn't ask student instead of continuing to platform these What out of the podcast I did with Terrence really Well what I thought is, I have to be honest, certain things that happened in the podcast. and I was much more infuriated by the response I thought that a lot of people just used in some of these areas to be jerks, and to couldn't understand things that you were saying. That Eric is more offended by educated people spews than the actual insane gibberish you need to know about who Eric is and his But they got upset that I'm talking about with mathematics that's held us back. these ideas though, what they should do is talk are attached to the ideas, people that want to up. Cuz like either you're correct or you're And of course all of these clowns pretend that just shouting insults and nothing else, instead are objectively wrong using language a child could only card they have. The well-deserved insults I wanna offer to you, I wanna be I tried to show Neil DeGrasse Tyson, that But no he did take a look at it, right? Yeah but his response was disingenuous. was the most genuine, flattering, and diplomatic you threw at him. Again, denial. The only card he I don't think Neil actually understood No, and what he forgot is when I say 1x1=2, Oh! It was just a metaphor, you guys! After having for not understanding 2nd grade arithmetic, he's speaking metaphorically. But really though? It Despite the fact that the square root of two multiply it by two, which creates a contradiction, a problem with the prime numbers, the fact when it's clearly a composite number. wasn't a metaphor at all, he just can't do basic it's a number that is only divisible by one and are its factors? One and itself? Yeah, that's the Two does belong as a prime. But it I have the opportunity to straw man you, if I What Terry said was objectively crazy, and Eric is no straw man. Terry is pretending that 2 Eric at the very least confirms that 2 is a it other than that it is a very small positive other than one and itself. Same with 3. Only large enough to have a factor other than one You know, if you say 1x1=2, everybody knows that and the fact that you don't use certain terms, that communicate to me something very positive, this stuff from reading about it, because certain words the way you pronounce them. saying that Terry can't even pronounce the words admitting the bottom line here, that Terry is Marie von Franz, who argued about the problems you've got Kurt Godel who talked about it, you got incommensurable. Just because they gave that has been the stumbling block for mathematicians they keep trying to make that work, am I wrong? In other words I can take... He's... Terrence, Terrence has several influences. This is why Eric does not belong here. I will give Terry says is correct. He genuinely wants to know. about, and just spews word salad that doesn't or any other mathematician, or what any position is supposed to say no. Nothing he do that. He feigns charitability to gain fans. Well then 1x1 is what? if you can show me one place in the universe... No no no, show me one place in the phenomenon where 1 times 1 equals 1, where an So you just went into... there's a concept This is about as good as it gets here, Eric asserting that Terry is playing word games. he is wrong, and it needs to happen in a way that one means one group of one. Three bowls times times two coins per bowl equals four coins. Two One bowl times one coin per bowl equals one coin. therefore one. Terry already pretended but now he's going back to defending his inability and he should be publicly humiliated for Eric gives a lengthy monologue about how one such but he doesn't assert that this is how we to even make a coherent comment. and the entire warehouse goes... that's what you're And that's what, that's the problems with the work on for years. For years. Norman J. Wildberger cancel conservation of energy, and you have This is a pattern. Terry knows he has no clue what name. Norman J. Wildberger? Who is that? What does It's just a name drop to pretend he's part of a deflects to concepts in physics like conservation the pure math he's trying to discuss. This is Dollar times a dollar, that was a problem. It's not the Dewey decimal system. decimal system, why a dollar times a dollar currencies. That was the point of that, I was Terrence makes a correct point that we say is not a sensible thing unless a dollar The Dewey decimal system, everybody. The method trying to discuss decimal points in arithmetic, What more evidence do you need that Terry just clue what it means? Why is nobody mocking him right over that, and correctly explains that a which is meaningless, so when Terry tries to But we never get the payoff, which should be basic math. Now on to the flower of life. but what if you said as below so a three-dimensional structure floating to this and distorts down to this. So that's it's the thing that projected to this. And that's This is one reasonable steel man that Eric doesn't mean anything, but what Eric said does be something sort of like a two-dimensional shadow Let's see if Terry is smart enough to accept Cuz the flower, when I was researching this is the oldest version that I got, from Well there are no Platonic solids because built which is the thing above in black. dragging us all back to his Platonic solids, which image, since those are three-dimensional objects. was draw straight lines where the circles with regard to all energy being expressed in all waves being curved, and that there There's several errors in what you just said. to spew his well-rehearsed script. It's right and waves. Eric doesn't like it though. Yeah but you should correct Ok, it is not true that all What energy is not expressed in motion? If I have a weight on a spring, which is sort but most of physics comes out of the Potential energy. The energy of position, not Whatever he could mean by that, he's wrong. For an object by virtue of its position electromagnetic field. No motion, yet energy. Terry desperately tries to come off like he Because all of the energy is It's in the stress of the crystallization And then you will say something like... there's still energy there, and it's still moving He just says the word crystallization for no of kinetic energy that don't have anything to do a spring, it has potential energy and it is not said that, repeatedly if necessary. By talking terminology, it's too easy for the viewer to get within the jargon to pretend he knows what he's potential energy. The end. Terry is wrong. And there is no resolution. Someone changes and we are off to something else. and it looks like the yin and People always wanna talk about by taking an entangled pair and saying I know what happens outside of my light and then you have to say well it doesn't allow the speed of light, and you have to be very start getting jiggy, and you start thinking... So the aether... up something totally random, Eric kind of explains listening will understand, Terry just says Eric doesn't make fun of Terry for pretending he's Then if you call that the aether, that's we do this weird thing where we say well they didn't, ha ha ha. And that's not really... a vacuum, and they realized it's not a vacuum. vacuum? It's all going on. I understand. So this is the thing, which everybody laughs and says ha ha ha he doesn't he doesn't understand why there's no aether. Yes, we should say ha ha ha Terry doesn't He doesn't understand that the aether has been the vacuum of space, presumably refencing the which has nothing to do with the obsolete and again pretends that it somehow pertains from 150 years ago. It's an immense disservice. we coincidence imaging of the superposition of an perform quantum state tomography. What the fuck? and Schrodinger, all of that, but if you to predict an electron cloud, and find a little so all of these uncertainties and probabilities two-dimensional basis. That's what I believe because they talk about, they show the pieces of through all these unnecessary steps to reach it. like this. I'm so happy that we can talk any understanding of what's going on at There is only one way to contextualize things. People also hate learning things. want to understand the frontier of theoretical whatsoever. So they listen to Joe Rogan read a pretend to not only understand it but to have and then everybody pats themselves on the back for shaman who conjures up an undeserved sense and frauds like Terry take advantage of it to gain bunch of words and use them randomly. From his "Schrodinger", when he's clearly pretending to states, and who formulated it. He has no idea what any of these principles say. He's just in love him. And someone like Eric has no business acting exactly what's going on here. If he can't point of going through all of this esoterica? a weird way, is one of the rivals of universities as you've recently seen, we don't kick out at the National Institute of Health. And so it's things that is trusted by many people. And it's have a chance to see people in conversation but the conversation is recorded and we all go on Yes, it is absolutely insane that people put more of the mathematicians and scientists all over It is complete epistemological breakdown. People wrong than admit that they blindly follow into this cycle to amass his own following. 8 years ago and tried to present them there to Because you keep coming at it... but like I said that was a metaphor to say wrong with the math. It's not adding up. lot. Renormalization theory is a way of saying we on the other hand we have a way of working with Again Terry uses this ridiculous metaphor excuse wrong with the math. He just doesn't want with the idea that math could be wrong that wrong. Instead of showing Terry how wrong he is, and Joe buys into it hook line and sinker. through whatever means, develop a superior problem with the number two, that doesn't have Well that's what I think I've done with my problems. I can't wait to talk about it. how maddening this is. Joe just reasserts this with the number two just because Terry needs which he continues to double down on even after are so many millions of people all over the world but the only guy there is Eric, who needs to pretend that wave conjugations means something. wave conjugations. And he has different ways says something very cryptic. Where he says if you circularly symmetrical lake, the wave the shore, and then it will radiate back. And conjugations, and wave conjugation didn't call They would call it a phase conjugation. the conjugate wave coming back, you know if you to the wall it will hit the wall and come back or the idea, and you could do this, where we could in water, and then you know using super slow-mo, placed places run into each other. Because And they're gonna create a particular cymatics The important part is where Eric basically says Terry says phase conjugation because he recently related term that he wants to pretend is what has nothing to do with Terry's pretty shapes, and piles some more crazy on top. cavity that looks like this. That's I actually generated this by putting eight pieces together and I put them together, they basically seen as a neutron, and the interesting thing about things in pairs, and they're always balanced. This pressure condition, a higher pressure condition. neutron? How is that a neutron? Does he even him what the hell he means when he says that's of what? He has no idea what pressure and nobody is doing anything about it. desire to go immediately to what this means. people don't even know what it is. Right? requires some modicum of pushback, and that's has no interest in teaching Terry anything. leech off of his cult-generating momentum. come from? So what it is is, spheres of radius through each other but closing off an octahedral That's what I needed you for. This moment encapsulates what these three validated by someone who knows what they're on a meme to bolster his profile. And I think it's a foolish thing almost always You should always consider it. It might not be Well there's a difference between, you contributing to the world of engineering I mean the odds that he's doing something new in Even though I have patents on I don't wanna go there. The patents do not Joe says it's foolish to think there's nothing says. That's just a line people use when to be objectively wrong. People will continue to learning what we already know, something which people like Terry and Joe will never, ever do. and Terry brings up his patents. Surprisingly, For the thousands of people on my first let's make it clear that he's totally full of patents for children's toys and three patent third is the AR/VR patent he was bragging about in application. The official reason is "abandoned - 2013, and the year prior he received a non-final language, and too much similarity to an existing IP that are related by concept and keyword. he's never invented or innovated anything. He's he has patents on math, a thing you can't do. does is that up until very recently, there were things at the door like our religious beliefs, we were decent to each other, and that Yes, it's collapsing because the general public things is a corrupt government shill, while geniuses. It will be what destroys the human race. He's all over the map in terms of the quality of stuff is really really good, some of his stuff No no no, I don't take that offensively, I take to what I was saying about having, if my pieces... should be taken seriously, while in the he says is so idiotic that it's offensive. past the insult by nervously steering the But what it's showing you is where electricity these magnetic waves coming out, it's showing create a natural dodecahedron whereas these come not something that just happens by accident. going on Terrence for me... together in one big ball of fury? they all fit together. It ain't supersymmetry but it's frickin cool. When Terry pretends that his shape has that's where a physicist is supposed to say: what Terry. Magnetic field. How is this a magnetic magnetic field? What causes them to exist? Do to himself, knowing that Terry uses the word So he then starts to make noises about which are that those faces he associates with the he calls vortices, and sometimes, I'm not quite I don't have a clue why he says the next thing, the number of electric things are balanced, force. And to me, it's just like super cool Well look at that. Maybe Eric has it in him after vortices, it's all horseshit. Any thoughts, Terry? tetryons on the end, they share, they both four magnetic poles according to how I see it. the vortices because it's no longer able I don't know what the hell you're talking about. A normal person in Terry's shoes would admit that normal person. This time Joe doesn't want to let but it doesn't go anywhere. Terry just spews tripe that isn't even worth listening to, for it. Eric sometimes point blank tells Terry esoteric instead of helping the viewer It's actually the case that electromagnetism, are a different form of curvature, curvature or fiber bundle curvature, which is This object encodes the curvature, it encodes to your point about nothing is a straight line. about this is in Cartesian space, and in Cartesian curvature that is allowed in Cartesian space. Really? and by the way this is a super subtle thing, No, it's not a super subtle thing that we've in Cartesian space? What about all the The conic sections? Parabolas, hyperbolas, other three-dimensional shapes. I didn't play the it's long and irrelevant, but Terry had no idea the word Cartesian to sound intelligent, The correct response is: why the hell are you and why would you say something so insanely distinction subtle, because he's leaving room for about something esoteric to sound intelligent when for Terry, for Joe, for the listeners. Because ability to understand the complicated things he's On a simple level, how would Well I wouldn't know how to do it simply. is really about rock paper scissors. that he can't comment on anything you're saying a simple answer. Instead of using some abstract just answer the question. Electricity is a That's it. Electrons are negatively charged to your outlets to provide electrical energy. several minutes about optical illusions. When Terry feels emboldened to do this hide so that people can't see how dumb he is. it will continue on, they overlap on each other that somebody could hope for, occurs. This that defines the entire wave field. This is one field. That's not even, that's just one... The problem that you're in right now... He doesn't know what supersymmetry means. not doing anything. He's not demonstrating actually demonstrate literally anything? made of spheres and Platonic solids and and I've seen people do it, staring into this and that you're seeing Jesus. I promise you. but he's not actually holding Terry accountable he talks down to him, but they're too few and But do, if these, if light passing that we look at when we're looking at natural doesn't that become it's own secondary You say geometry is a proof, and one of the have an equals sign. No no no, you're at your weakest when you have an equals sign. You say the coolest stuff about geometries. It's funny that they both criticize Neil's the same thing as Neil. Telling Terry he's at his that he made up some pretty shapes. That's which is what Eric is more or less saying here Hit two, square root, it'll be over one hit x to the third, no no, go back, hit now divide by two, hit equal, cube it again, cube it again, hit x to the third, that's an inside of the matrix. It does not allow for math There is no loop. There is no tuck in the matrix. math. Why is it so hard to accept that there could yields the same result? What would someone do if exists? Well we could do some basic algebra. Let's gives you the same result as doubling it, 2x. Well and solve for x! X cubed is x times x times x. Now That leaves us with x times x, or x squared, and we get root two. X equals root two. Root two the same result, two root two. You can even prove y = x cubed gives this curve here, and y = 2x intersect? Root two, negative root two, and zero, are three values for which cubing and doubling just performing basic arithmetic operations over double two to get four and then subtract two to end of the universe. That's just you wasting your person watching this video understood what I just or by about tenth grade at the latest. This is Eric choose to address this baloney? what you're saying is wrong. No no, what you're saying is fine, I agree you can put those two steps together which is be dead still until the end of time. That's and you say that is not logical and it's He doesn't mean anything. He just can't do basic the reason you're there, isn't it? Is your point is that there's something I'm saying that the square root of two is a principle. If the identity principle have a problem with 1x1 equaling two, or... Just because action and reaction, the universe, math was supposed to define physical things, we can't make sense, the rest of the Terry is so transparently grasping at straws robot trying to stay on script. Action and he can't accept that he doesn't understand exasperated he gets when his script, that has been falls flat in front of educated people. the universe that is at rest because everything and vibration requires oscillation, This is his magnificent proof that 1x1=2. Things but he just cannot accept a Science took a wrong turn when it walked down and now they've walked down this road, and now but instead of turning around and saying ok all of these equations were built off of, and here in and said ok, I have the wave conjugations that He's completely manic. Einstein was a moron and can't do 2nd grade math, but he's smarter than what it's like in Terry's head. He has no idea him any page from a relativity textbook and he than it. He simply has to be, or what is reality? chosen one? How can he be the Kwisatz Haderach, if he isn't smarter than Einstein? I'll give in this section, but it's just not enough to Is this something, so this is my community Alright? Do you have a way of relating what has wrong, does this mean anything to you? you take gravity out because gravity has that strong electrical force. without... this is not a gotcha. Do you know how to read this? um, i is imaginary, d to the 4 I So that's the volume element saying that gonna take an integral. why to a negative gravity? spacetime metric, which which you might have an you're saying that if the rulers look according to Einstein, you have to put more weight what that R is? That's the foreplay. And then Explain it. has no idea what any of this means. He can't do little kid for several minutes while Eric takes a to pretend like he is following along. is telling us the kinetics and the interaction force that's in the line above. And then the last three terms are Because what he found out in the late 50s... But does the audience get what they need what a toddler Terry really is? I don't think just like Joe. And it goes on for a very Terry desperately tries to steer it back his way. you know, this has been, they've been working on have any physical models that represent any of the electric force and the magnetic force and is place or the effects that we see, then it should Terrence you didn't do that. Alright show him. Ok here we go. any physical models because he's never looked back to pretending his dumb shapes do anything everyone can see how pointless these shapes are. the, I would call that, that would be that would be the beginning of everything. this. You say one, it's dark matter, because it's it's interstitial. Two you say two it's hydrogen. Three you say well look it's got We don't even have to beyond this. Terry Now he's saying it's hydrogen. Eric says he has to any of this? He is combining random If we start with this as electricity. Then we first thing that happens to it is it decays. The is literally just putting on two magnetic fields. hydrogen. It decays? How? And into what? What fields? None of this means anything. Eric should and refusing to move forward until Terry Any time you're urinating, a man is urinating, contracting. Expanding contracting. That braiding that. But then let's add, let's go to the next four sides, now what these are responsible for... Alright Joe. from a weiner, so it's revolutionary physics. It makes me wonder about the kinds of fetishes of the disheveled scientist while Joe and Eric but Eric finally steers it in a better direction. you get a positive reaction from us. If you say I can I get an evaluation because I think able to get something from a guy like me. I know. But I'm trying to say something. But then you your teaching is not good. You tell us stuff and then we say ok I can throw out What did I say that wasn't Well 1x1 is not equal to 2. Let's start there. have pushed back on that. Joe was in awe. Finally a little criticism thrown Joe's way and not pushing back on it whatsoever. Yes, Terry time. Let's see if we can keep up this momentum. but in me saying 1x1 equals 2, like I said that's the math because math should not be done... I'm saying that the math we are doing even though we are in a multi-dimensional space. or not? If it's a metaphor, then stop pretending Or just admit that you don't know what a metaphor of esoteric concepts. Eric brings it back 20 And that process is the radiative process. That's apart, that rarifies what was concentrically force is an equal force to electricity. That's what I feel. Imagine I challenge Joe to a fight. What do Well Joe knows some shit that you don't know. in terms of weight, I have an advantage in terms knows how to fight and he's got a spinning back ass kicked. You do not know when you're gonna get gonna keep courting because I watch you, you keep and you insist on teaching into it. And because I'm inspired by what you're trying to do. with a guy with an Italian last name and a shiny You've just, you've gotta stop. That got a little dark, but even Eric, is starting to get a little tired of listening talking about. But remember, while some of a lot of it is lifted from elsewhere. you feel that the theory of gravity is incorrect, of the effects that we call gravity. And what do you think that is? that gravity is the draft left behind. Thunderbolts videos and got high on so he tries to present those lies as his own. gravity is the opposite of those thermals in same way the thermals push up. I don't even wanna touch it. Because I'm gonna I know, I'm just saying, and I could be wrong. so wrong that the word wrong does not You are, as they say, fractally wrong. You are You use words incorrectly. You combine those the combinations themselves result in incorrect wrong. And yet you confidently present your problem in physics, because you're a narcissist. matter, there's nothing but a dancing Ok, now, if you take what he just said, this professor, lecturing me for 40 fucking years, up. That everything is just a string, and just all of the particles come from the excitation the lynchpin. Now string theory is not a terrible the string theorists suggest that nothing else kill off every single person who has pointed out listen to their colleagues. And so in part me with the lynchpin, which is a terrible thing So the same basic pattern which is one thing I'm bout to get you, I got... I'm bout to get you... being shown that you're stupid right to your totally ridiculous for pretending to have solved point out that string theory hasn't really turned he is way too charitable in pretending that of string theory, a real theory which is totally and is in general real science that just Terry just vomits hot garbage. But Eric so he tries to make Terry and theoretical Another thing that I see you taking a lot of like your periodic table. But you are also the public consciousness the understanding... totally insane, so this doesn't The ionization energies of the elements and we are going to produce tones representing each one of these elements in the table is with these push buttons. The settings in this energies will be converted into tones that to look at a few of the controls for now. See corresponding to these ionization energies are As you said. down in this case 42 octaves, -42. So let's start I get that tone. Or I can go 44 octaves down. not sounds. Just like light is not sound. You can them into frequencies of sound, and it is the annual GDP of every country. For the distance For the number of banana cream pies sold at a anything. Elements are not sounds. thing and I asked, I called. I called UCLA asking for the elements and they wouldn't give them to me. him the "prime resonant frequency" of the elements is not explaining anything whatsoever about how is being interpreted? The ionization energy does that become the little ding you hear? And any kind of frequency of anything? Ionization and then it's an ion. The end. Frequencies number of cycles per unit time. This is one different versions of absolutely nothing. wait wait wait... hydrogen was 40.5 I was saying that the key of E But you said it in a very authoritative way, associated not with hydrogen but with mercury. doubling that you'll get to... only do these frequencies not correlate with he doesn't even understand the difference between defines a single note, and a single note does not the key of E minor. One note is not a key. Terry the most important thing is that these numbers failing miserably here. And then you imagine carbon as an octave above What is that thing below hydrogen, and you said But there is ultra low frequencies, even though That's where your analogy broke down, Terrence. position as carbon does when you're looking at it. It doesn't come off at the same Terrence, you're talking about Tone! Coloration! Octaves! It's pure insanity. Eric calls bullshit, but he doesn't explain One. You can't have fewer than one proton in atom. That's the point. That's the answer. That's 10th grader should understand. And he doesn't Pull up the Neil stuff that I prepared how disingenuous this is. He calls you Dunning Kruger is both an effect and a study, and Yes, Eric doesn't like how Neil politely idea what he's talking about. But Eric has conversation. So what gives? just so you don't feel bad about yourself, that question in an ask me anything. Will you theory of geometric unity. This is from 2013. We normal talking head documentary. In fact it's that live for an entire generation, beyond the shelf that came afterwards. So the answer is no. that Neil mocked his ideas just like he did to turd too, just with much better turd polish. are garbage, hence the anti-academia rants which the science illiterate general public, and his More or less from what I can piece who started Pergamon Press destroyed... Correct. He figured out how to destroy science of journals, and forcing every university to out how to publish, because to not subscribe to you had an incomplete library. So he diluted the And we have reached the Jeffrey Epstein of you who watched my video debunking Formscapes, and it's idiotic. He was one guy at the top unlimited power in shaping the publishing world. remains the only respectable way to share on this pathetic anti-establishment script that So what you're saying though, can I just that Neil DeGrasse's understanding of peer available to someone like Terrence. Of course it's not available to Terry, he's a a coherent sentence. His rants are so stupid project, so how could they get published in a hard-working people who do science for a living? Terry can't get published. He has to project this like the uppity black man who is making waves with his own grift. This is the precise reason that Now you look at what Neil said about your stuff, You're wrong about that. That was your opener? you heard what I said about the lynchpin. It was any economic or authoritative interest in taking name. I am simply here to help you and when we can tell you that that's a great idea. It I don't know, but I assume it comes from you. to get someone else to build his drone for him, So I was trying to reach out to Elon Musk I was main goal was I was building these to clean up up there and ultimately to mine the asteroid belt. air is going to go fly around in the vacuum of Terry. But it doesn't matter. Eric In my field that I care about, for 40 years we've theory people are doing real work and everybody no way we can get out from under these people. In I was just with Jay Bhattacharya in Italy. Oh for sure. I'd bring garlic. Some crosses on the wall. Brian Greene. Let's have a discussion about neoclassical economics. Shall we discuss random is that reasonable? Or do some of these but random mutation isn't powerful enough to build String theory bad! Fauci bad! Neo-darwinism bad! anti-vaxxer creationist-sympathetic fanboys just institution is wrong, and every contrarian is because it's the only thing these frauds ever say. shitty and as variable in quality as they are... for reasons I won't belabor for a third time. that I have the models behind what I'm talking electric field or the plasmic field, I've got and I'm waiting for it to be reviewed. Yes, it pisses people off when you say do not have a model. You do not have anything and you don't even know what any of those words But Terrence you know what he's saying about not the outside and that's it's... Yeah it's insulting. It's a bad way to that have been studying these concepts for so long you know. And that's offensive to people that are could be portrayed in a way that does not do that. It's just you're so much smarter than No, Terry is not smarter than almost anyone he is. That's the problem. Joe has it in him to admit and Terry just says that he needs to learn that he doesn't even understand the words move on pretending that Terry isn't stupid. that I really see and appreciate. It comes from the academy anymore. We used to have lots of these what we've got is a specialization epidemic. have to specialize in order to contribute to the much. There will never be another Da Vinci. That for science communicators like me who want to because we have to point out many different holes knowledge. Generalism will no longer allow you to everybody is miles deep into the abyss already. endpoint. Is that they see heterdox to place them. So they just say if I can Terry isn't a heterodox thinker. People error. Everything he says is an error. He is an to blame academia for unjustly rejecting Terry have in common when they preach. With the 1x1 but that's why I keep It's not a metaphor to us. It's life and security. It's like it's just a glock 19. gain the attention. Listen you didn't know and now you know. Terry will officially admit that 1x1=1 give Terry one more slap on the wrist. South Carolina University, I was working with I developed a way in which to grow diamonds over to South Carolina University and I talked to their university. They were going to give me an me an hononary degree in chemical engineering honorary degree in humanities that they gave me. got an honorary degree from the... but that ended in chemical engineering, which I don't have Assume you did. An honorary degree... It's like, if your child needed brain No. This is just pathetic. Terry was given an honorary an actual doctorate in chemical engineering. He total fabrication about diamonds to act confused, classes and doing real research at an institution. in doing so, we expose the hypocrisy in figures against academia, while simultaneously presenting In Terry's case, it's a lie. He never even come. In Eric's case, it's true. He does have this story breaks down. If academia is truly so they distribute. If the degrees mean something, these institutions as corrupt and limiting Q Anon can't be total bullshit because it's got If you think about dianetics and scientology. The That's not a terrible theory. And then before you going on is, is that people are not aware of how demanding sports of a certain kind. Now it happens ever dealt with anybody, like the wrestling sport in the world. What you have to understand at my essay from 2011, is about what happens what you did on the last time that you were I can talk to you about the fraud and the the contributions and the genius and the insight. getting sucked into mass delusions that you're a core of truth and reality that the mainstream bullshit payload that gets leavened in because in and then all of the rest of us produce these other haven't had a really deep conversation about GU, are is that you're in a world in which the number ethical enough to have the conversation This is the summation of Eric's entire identity. which he is, while simultaneously manufacturing isn't there, in order to pretend that he is to bolster his own narrative of being overlooked a pile of crap just like Terry's insane ramblings, way because he understands math and Terry doesn't. his show has become self-aggrandizing intellectual understand complex topics but don't. perhaps the world is slightly better for him Terry has no idea what he's talking about. And Terry fans seem to feel vindicated by this can walk away from this conversation without opportunity. One thing we know for sure is that So there you have it, my assessment of Joe Rogan. No matter what the configuration of any kind of logical resolution, but maybe