- The first recorded use was in a WGBH TV special from 1988. (80's music) This was a few years and also the year I was born. - This is all very familiar to Boston, massive construction projects but not since the back bay was filled in, or the city subway system built, has there been anything - As I watch this special now, knowing what's about to happen, knowing how things will go, I'm really struck by the narrative around the Big Dig at and how different it is from the narrative as I remember it in the 90s and 2000s. (light upbeat music) The old narrative is pretty much summed up in the title of the special. - The question is, will (upbeat music) - You know, the story of was supposed to be, &quot;The city of Boston's gonna - Rick Dimino was for the city of Boston in those years leading up to the Big Dig. - &quot;You won't be able to move. Business, as we know, (upbeat 80's music) - This project is impacting 19 different neighborhood - I mean, building a is no small thing. People were reasonably worried about noise, and power outages, about the traffic during the what all this would mean for small businesses. - Millions of rats living underground will have to be contained. - There is a theory that all the digging would force millions of rats - Something the community's What are you gonna do - That's what the story - Traffic, parking, noise, rats. (upbeat 80's music) And you know what you in those days? - Are you concerned about - Was the cost. - I think the costs are being by the federal and state sharing. I'm more concerned about - The cost at that point in 1988 was an academic concern, but not for long. (upbeat music) From GBH News, this is The Big Dig, a Study I mean, costs. When I talk to people if they know just one thing about it, they know it was really expensive. Almost $15 billion, not counting interest. in the public consciousness, that one piece of the The obvious question to ask, of course, is why did it cost so much? And there are many answers, but the more interesting why did the cost matter so much? How did that become the story? Because it was not inevitable. This is part six, the Up Down Charts. (intriguing upbeat music) The Big Dig's cost crisis had a long fuse that but it was lit in 1993. That was the year Jim Kerasiotes, the notoriously aggressive finally settled that thorniest of the whole project. The Charles River Crossing. Remember Scheme Z, the vindictive parking lot owner? That controversy. After three years of debate, it was over. - The decision on the Charles because at that point I knew that we were totally in the game. - At last, Kerasiotes could define the full scope of the project. He could wrap his hands around it, and say, &quot;This, this is - And I also knew that it to meaningfully adjust the project budget. And Bechtel came in with staff, and I said, &quot;So what's this gonna cost?&quot; - Bechtel, remember, was the private company And apparently they were &quot;Just add a few hundred that should cover the new bridge design and we'll be good to go. - I said, &quot;You guys have - Kerasiotes, who is already experiencing the messy reality of actual construction, could see that those - I mean, instinctively I knew that they were off, that it was going to be more. And I will be, I'll be really honest with you. I made up a number. I just said, &quot;I'll tell you what, I'll give you an extra billion dollars.&quot; I said, &quot;And don't come back. (upbeat music) - The final number Kerasiotes was $7.7 billion. - Everybody salutes. &quot;Oh, &quot;Everything's, this is wonderful.&quot; &quot;This is good news.&quot; Federal Highway falls right in line. I made the fucking number up. And, to this day, I scratch my head. And I say to myself, &quot;This is how we run the government?&quot; - But very quickly, there were doubts about whether even that - Leave it to Bechtel. It took - This time it was Bechtel saying the project would cost more, billions more. But now, Kerasiotes wouldn't budge. He saw the whole cost issue through a kind of psychological lens. As long as people believed, the price could keep going up, it would keep going up. Give a hundred, it'll go up a thousand. Give a thousand, it'll go up a million. - So if you don't put limits on something, it will spiral and continue - He had to take a stand somewhere, allowed public stand, and this was it. 7.7 billion. - Will you look the and promise them that after this election - When Governor Weld went he carried that 7.7 - Yeah, I absolutely will look the people in the eye right now and say, we will manage to the $7.7 That's the word I'm getting who's the Secretary of - But that promise was always backed by the word and reputation - Department and Jim Kerasiotes. - We have about 30 seconds left if you would like to respond. - Kerasiotes must have known that there were a thousand a thousand ways the cost could go up, but he staked himself to He owned it. - And that was my job, and I don't apologize for it ever. - With the Charles River work could finally begin on putting the Central Artery underground. So everything we talked like the four point channel, that was all for the Harbor Tunnel, over to the airport, the other half of the project. Interesting stuff. But for me, the Central Artery is the main event. This was the idea that set and now promise to We're talking about a mile eight to 10 lanes wide, with on-ramps, off-ramps, interchanges, and all the trimmings, now being stuffed into the soil of one of the oldest cities in America, under hundreds of years worth sneaking between skyscrapers, and all while the business of that city went on, nonstop. Burying the Central Artery that the construction work was broken down into six major contracts, each done by different companies so that all six sections The first contract was awarded in 1995, for the southern most piece, running underneath Atlantic Ave. - Atlantic Ave. We were - Bill Womack was VP of Operations for the company leading the contract. - And don't hold me to these numbers, but it's like $370 million. - 378, actually, just for one section out of six. - Check, check, check. - Yep. - At least that's what - Could you sort of show me around? - Yeah. Well, lemme see if I can get you a hard hat or something, 'cause that's... - Frank Martinez was a meaning he was down in the hole, supervising work for over nine years, a decade of his life on this one job. Martinez is still a foreman, and when we met, he was for a transit station. - Yep. - Is this about how deep it was when you were working on the Big Dig or? - Ah, no, the Big Dig was a lot deeper. - He calls this job the Mini Dig, because it's just around the - The mini dig right here. (chuckles) - Martinez told me, just being down in this soil again brings back memories. - Absolutely, (chuckles) you know. Man, it brings nightmares, (upbeat music) - First of all, before any real artery all the utilities along the pathway have to be relocated. - Step one was utilities. - Gas, thermal, electric, and sewer lines will be rerouted. - 29 Miles of pipes and cables crisscrossing through the ground where the tunnel was supposed to go. All had to be reorganized. - In a recent survey of consumer concerns, loss of telephone service particularly... - This was potentially, one of the most disruptive because these utilities serve the whole downtown. Pierce, a water main, you get a flood. Cut an electrical line, you get a blackout. Tear up the wrong fiber optic cable, you shut down all transactions at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. - So everybody had an orange vest that had a pocket in the back. - Maureen McCaffrey was a - So you had your field book, and your radio, and your tape measure, and your can of spray paint, and your utility plans. - Now, in theory, those showed where all the But remember, it's a 400 year old city. - Nobody knew what the hell - So very carefully, like archeologists almost, the contractors started exploring the soil under Atlantic Ave. - We ran into cobblestones, granite piers. - Wooden waterlines, archaic utilities. - There was a sewer pipe eight feet wide. - To get down into the blue clay was a nightmare. - And every time they found something that was not in the plans, work would stop, so an engineer like McCaffrey could come check it out. - That is an event that happened almost every single day. - There was constantly - To some extent, the contractors had accounted for unforeseen challenges in their bid. They knew there would that they'd have to be flexible. But this went beyond that. - Well outside of what we - Bill Womack believes that were essentially rushed into construction before they were ready, due to political pressure, which meant Atlantic Ave as became the guinea pig. - We're a hundred feet The total depth in this area is 120. - As the crews on Atlantic and worked their way they found new challenges. Frank Martinez, who remembers working through the winter, and never being able to see the sun. It was dark and cold. The pit itself was and decked over with a temporary road to keep traffic moving. So all day he would hear high up over his head. And then there was the water. Why? Why was it so hard to - 'Cause you're so deep. The water always finds a - The water table in Boston is only about 15 feet below the ground. The tunnel went down up to 120 feet. So moisture was constantly seeping in, turning the work site into a mud pit. - You lose your boots, I mean, it was just very, very - In 1996, the situation got so bad that the Atlantic Ave contractors spent most of the year pumping water out of the work site, enough that they actually in the whole area by 45 feet, enough that the skyscrapers started settling ever so slightly, on their foundations. (eerie music) Despite a few scary sounding headlines about sinking skyscrapers, the worst fears about the were never realized. There was no biblical plague of rats, no massive blackouts, no exodus of businesses. The traffic was bad, sure, but it never stopped. The entire elevated artery was propped up on temporary supports as the tunnel was being dug beneath it just to keep the road open. Residents near the work site got free air conditioners so they could keep their windows shut, and block out the noise. All those problems had solutions. The problem no one could solve, was the cost. Every surprise, every bump, every deviation from the plans turned into what's called a change order, essentially a request by the contractor for more money to cover But with the big dig, the cost of all those because there was incredible pressure to keep the various contracts If one section of the tunnel that threw off the whole plan, you'd have a tunnel with So every time there's a say, from water pumping, that delay had to be made up for. - We worked as many as 90 hours a week. - That meant overtime, 15 hour days, 90 hour weeks, whatever it took, really, to make up that time and get the contracts back on schedule. (gentle music) - When I leave the house, By the time I get home, they were already sleeping because they had to go to So yeah. - Some days, Frank's over to Atlantic Ave in the middle of the day, so they could all at That's basically how he over Burger King, and Chinese food, in the South Station food court. (gentle music) All that overtime, all those extra shifts, they became part of the cost of these change orders. - So as you continue the the change orders continue to mount up. - Those change orders made who would then present and the state. The dynamic here is The contractors ask for more money, Bechtel, and the state pushed back. Bechtel even had buttons made with the word Change on them, and a line through it. - As it turned out, we had hundreds of hundreds of millions of - Just for the Atlantic Ave. contract. Everyone had to acknowledge that some of these changes were justified, that the job was more in that original bid. - And at the end of the day, it ended up at $580 So it almost doubled in just looking for changes. - Now imagine this same process playing out across a dozen and dozens of smaller ones. Every day, something unexpected, every day, a change, every day, a delay. And yet, there was something (gentle music) The cost of an individual but the official cost of the whole project didn't budge. For six years, from 1993, all the way through 1999, the official cost estimate to account for inflation. - What I'm happy to report is that this project is on time. - Here's Kerasiotes, in 1998, reiterating his promise - And said in 1993 that this project would cost $7.7 billion plus inflation. It still does. - And it went well beyond - I think Joe Malone's (audience laughs) - When a candidate for questioned the project finances, Kerasiotes called into a live radio show and berated him on air until Malone hung up. When a sitting congressman dared to comment on project finances, Kerasiotes responded with &quot;Jim, stop whining.&quot; It was never a &quot;You're wrong. We are on budget.&quot; - I mean, he could say that, but everybody kind of knew - By the late 90s, two reporters on the Big Dig beat, Tom Palmer of the Globe, and Laura Brown of the Herald, were both getting - I had sources who were telling me, the cost was way above - The real number was gonna come out, but I didn't have it on the record. - And we were all chasing that story. (calm music) - I would say that the basic are now in place, mystery, and conflict. An obvious tension in The cost of the project a good story. And at the center of it all was a tragic hero, perhaps an anti-hero who had backed himself into a corner. - Jim Kerasiotes used to tell people that not only was he - Andy Paven, worked as a - And what the mothers told the children, the warriors, was to come home with - So with your shield, or on it means like you're - Right. You either die in battle or you come home victorious. And if you are not victorious, you don't come home. And that's how he approached public life. So, you know, it kind of appropriate that the lead figure has one character flaw, the hamartia, that leads to his downfall. I guess it was hubris. It was the belief that is he would hold the line on what this project was going to cost. I think that's what did him in. (suspenseful music) - A new character enters He was an old friend and but nevertheless, he would bring about a reckoning, a crisis almost a decade in the making that sealed the narrative of the Big Dig. His name is Pat Moynihan. So I wanna fast forward a bit to when Jim asked you - Mm hm. - for the Central Artery Do you remember how that played out? - I was reluctant to say the least. My wife said I was crazy to take the job, but I felt as though, you so I was gonna do it. - Moynihan was taking who you may recall from the last episode. Zuck had really shepherded the Big Dig from an idea on the page to the largest construction But now he was moving on. (gentle music) - And so when he left the project, I asked, &quot;Peter, anything I (Pat chuckles) And his response to me was, &quot;Nothing you can't handle, Pat.&quot; I said, &quot;Okay.&quot; (slow music continues) - When Moynihan became project director, the official cost of the Big I know that sounds like which it is. But believe it or not, that is mostly just from inflation. The Big Dig actually caught because as the project was underway, Federal Highway rewrote the rules on them and decided that all cost estimates now had to account for future inflation. That's part of the reason the is that they straddle different In any case, that 10.8 figure now included inflation all the way through But if you peek under the hood, the underlying assumptions about the work being done, and the money it would take, had not really changed. When Moynihan came in the door, he had no concrete reason But then in his first project staff sat him down and introduced him to the Up Down Charts. (upbeat music) The Up Down Charts were the that had allowed the to hold steady for so long. The upside of the chart showed the change orders, and delays, things that were pushing the cost up, but then all those increases were matched dollar for with things like using less selling off air rights for shifting expenses to other state agencies. In theory, everything balanced out, and the total cost remained 10.8 billion. - It was a bit of a that there was these variances, which, of course, I really - Moynihan was worried that the downside wouldn't that there was a gap. But he couldn't take that news straight to Jim Kerasiotes, not just yet. Moynihan had to be sure. - I just kept my head down, worked it. - He went instead to Bechtel Parsons, the joint venture managing - He said to them, &quot;Look, you know, when was the last time that and did the bottoms up review? Right? When was the last time you did that?&quot; - Their response, 1993, 6 years ago at this point. Moynihan told them to get to work. - Every contract, every element you need to go through this project with a fine tooth comb - They spent months and Moynihan became increasingly dismayed with what he was learning. There were huge costs not even And some of these costs went back years. In a moment of frustration, Moynihan fired off a letter to the one who had told him, Now Moynihan responded, &quot;Peter, I can't tell you As far as Moynihan could tell, none of these additional costs had even been reported to Jim Kerasiotes. No one, it seems, wanted As late as the summer of 1999, as the bottom up review was underway, Kerasiotes was out by the Globe, and the that the cost was going - I think unfortunately, Jim Kerasiotes made for measuring success. - Andy Paven, the Big Dig spokesperson, was always wary of this strategy of putting so much - You're setting yourself on a scale that you can't achieve. You can't succeed at that. - And more than that, it just wasn't the way - Nobody has context for $7.8 or the difference between I mean, a billion is a lot. But I, that was my sense was that, that we were always overly afraid of the number, of the price, and that wasn't the way to present it. - Paven recalls urging Kerasiotes to hold public events down in the tunnels, do more to showcase the engineering, in the future benefits, the good stuff. - And yet, because we were on what is this going to cost, that was what we fell into, and ignored the idea that we were getting what could be a once in to rebuild an aging city. - So is that the lesson that you have to find on the purpose and not on the cost, - Yeah. - Yes. Yeah, the only way you is to focus on the reason you're doing it. - We'll never know if would've made any difference. Paven stepped down from his job in 1999. He was all done settling Pat Moynihan, on the other hand, who had known Kerasiotes for decades and counted him as a friend, very much understood the - You know, we had to maintain the amount of pressure necessary to have people working - Right. It almost seems to me like that number, that cost estimate, it's like a necessary fiction. Like you said, you need a because if there is no cap, then it'll just go up - That's right. - But at the same time, there is a kind of unspoken understanding that, &quot;We don't really know.&quot; I mean, how could you know? - Right. I mean that was the whole and keeping people focused on that. And, you know, could I have gone in, in the first month of the job and said, &quot;Hey, you know, they're telling He would've just, &quot;Get outta here.&quot; You know? (chuckles) &quot;Quit telling us... that's not what I sent you down there for. You know, you can't, you And it took me a while, - Mm. - to buy into the number. Because once you have the number, that's the number, it You have to get it to the point where there's just no other options. And that's basically where we were in December of 1999. You know, that number was the number. - Now, Moynihan had to bring his boss, the new number, a big number. (somber music) - Pat Moynihan called me up one day. He said, &quot;I need your help.&quot; - James Aloisi had worked with the Big Dig as a general counsel, so he understood the legal landscape as well as the politics of the project. - He says, &quot;Well, we need an intervention with Jim, and I just need people like you to sit with him during the intervention so that he gets the - Moynihan rented a suite someplace private, away Just a handful of people were in the room. - &quot;Look, Jim, you know me. I've done everything I can do here.&quot; - Then he broke the news. - Pat said, we have some - That the project was - I was shocked. I was shocked. I was dismayed. I didn't know whether to believe them. - And you're totally blindsided by this. - Yeah, yeah. I can remember leaving the hotel, and basically saying, &quot;I think (James chuckles) Which I did. - But Kerasiotes did not because someone else was about the Big Dig budget, the state's new treasurer. - The fact is, tonight we've (crowd cheers and applauds) - Shannon O'Brien became the first woman in Massachusetts history to be elected to statewide - We've not only made history. - And yes, state treasurer is not one of but O'Brien would get more - When I first got in there, it was a little bit of trial by fire. (upbeat music) - In December of 1999, the same month of that the state issued a new round - And I'm gonna have to - As treasurer, it's her - And the banker who is withdrew from the competition to do that. I mean, literally, it's a - One of the things was the Big Dig. And it seemed like the she didn't know about the financial health of the project, if they suddenly didn't wanna buy bonds that were funding it. - Turning back a billion that was unusual, really unusual. And it sent my, you know, spidey senses going off like we have to do something here. - Meanwhile, inside the project, Moynihan and Kerasiotes were Reveal the shortfall as soon as possible, try to move past it, or keep it under wraps until we have some good Wait for a ribbon cutting, basically, Moynihan though, felt like - They said, &quot;Look, this The project like this, it wasn't like we were being reckless, people will understand.&quot; - &quot;People will understand.&quot; - Pretty naive, huh? - Kerasiotes was not so naive. He understood the promises he had made, and the enemies he had made. All those people he had for daring to contradict him. Now, there would be a price. - I always enjoyed the Christmas holiday. (somber music) And so I always had a 10 in my office. We had high ceilings. And sort of the day before we were gonna part ways for the season, I would have small And that night when the and I was sitting on the couch, my arm was around Pat Moynihan, and I said to him, &quot;Take 'cause we're not gonna be here next year.&quot; And so I knew. (somber music) - Everyone went home for the year. And I have to imagine, that for a few days at least, the Big Dig felt small and fleeting, when you consider that our civilization was about to enter a new millennium. What's another billion dollars weighed against the last Who would even remember all this a thousand years from now? Kind of puts things in perspective. (crowd cheering) On December 31st, we all wondered together if the computers would come crashing down and the world would go dark. We gathered in crowds, counting down the final seconds. - [Crowd] Three, two, one. (crowd cheers) - Then, (crowd noise stops) we woke up the next day, and it was just another day. The computer still worked, and the Big Dig still had a (upbeat music) - So basically we wanted and announce it. But we had gremlins in our midst. - One of those gremlins, per Kerasiotes at least, was Shannon O'Brien. - She saw attacking the project and perhaps blowing the thing up as an opportunity for And she did. - You know, the first time was when I had to say, &quot;I've been hearing that there's that aren't being disclosed.&quot; We ended up having, I think, a breakfast at the Langham Hotel. - In January of 2000, O'Brien asked Kerasiotes at one of the old classy the Langham. O'Brien and Kerasiotes got a corner table. She ordered a Diet Coke. According to O'Brien, everything was very cordial. - But I do remember the exact feeling where I said, &quot;I just have - She told him about the rumors, about the bankers suddenly And then she gave an ultimatum, &quot;Give us the real numbers.&quot; - And I said to him, &quot;I And if it doesn't happen by next week, I'm gonna create a little crisis. I'm not gonna sign off on the general obligation bonds that are due to be issued next week. That's gonna be a problem But I am willing to do that because I don't believe if I sign off on those bonds.&quot; - So when you leave that meeting, - With her? - Yeah, where do things stand? - Nowhere. I basically told her that we were certainly She had no interest. - They called my first deputy, and basically said I and could they get me to back off? And he said, I wasn't backing off. - Kerasiotes was running The governor had to be notified. Bond rating agencies had to be notified. And already his political enemies were getting wind of what was coming. - The cat was out of the bag. And so Jim knew he had to meet the press. - On February 1st, reporter Tom Palmer was summoned to the along with Laura Brown from the Herald. Usually the two reporters would compete for a big scoop like this, but Kerasiotes wanted to give them both the same running start. As Palmer recalls, Pat Moynihan initially described to them a cost increase in the Then he stepped out into the hallway with the other project staff. - And we all, you know, were scribbling and getting and write this. And Pat Moynihan turned &quot;Oh hell, make it 1.5.&quot; I mean, it was like, &quot;We're gonna have to admit so let's do it now.&quot; - The final number was actually 1.4, but you get the idea. - What's a couple of in a project this big? - The next morning on top was Tom Palmer's headline, &quot;Big Dig Costs Take a It was the single greatest cost increase in the project's history. (upbeat music) That day, a six year The Big Dig would not cost $10.8 billion. The number Kerasiotes had It would be more. - If you think you are the mess, and the cost overruns, you've got company. - This was a scandal unlike - This project has suffered - There was a congressional hearing. - The Artery Project - Clinton's Secretary of Transportation was forced to go over to John McCain even made it a talking point in his presidential campaign. - Looking for some good don't look at Washington, it was all bad. With a... - Soon, a federal audit was underway, and an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. - Federal officials have with both feet. - Every day. There was something else. - Pat Moynihan told me, he only spent 13 months but it felt like 13 years. - And it was whether it made front page, or front page Metro. (chuckles) - Okay, I gotta wrap this segment. I keep saying this is It's not gonna go away. - That was the kind of month - This is the Big Dig, as a never ending source of outrage. - In a Boston Globe poll 48% said that Big Dig officials had intentionally misled the public about the project's cost. - And in that moment, the outrage found a clear focal point. - Jim Kerasiotes has dug - Jim Kerasiotes, the man who had spent a decade both dominating and lashing out at anyone who Now, virtually no one came to defend him. - And joining me now by is Senator John Kerry. - And all those enemies they were ready, their knives sharpened. - I mean the fact is that the state misled the federal government, - I think it's an outrage. And I think Mr. Kerasiotes in particular, bears a deep, deep burden on this. (intriguing upbeat music) - This much outrage required a sacrifice. And so in April of 2000, the governor demanded After almost 10 years he was done. I wonder as, as someone has fired a good number of people, and on occasion made example of the person you were - Yeah. - Did you understand what he was doing? - Oh yeah, absolutely. And I don't blame him. I wasn't happy about it. But the story is, you're You're hiding the baloney. You're not being honest. You're not being straightforward. And when the reality was, is that all we were trying to do was control the cost of the project at every step of the game. The right thing to do was to leave. And I left. (somber music) - In the months after his departure, Kerasiotes was proven Once you open the door for cost increases more would come. His initial announcement in February brought the total By April, it was 13.5, by October, 14.1, and closing in on the final He insists to this day that he could have held the cost lower if only he'd been given the chance. But his own actions made that impossible. Charlie Baker, our last &quot;If we didn't have a Jim we'd have to invent one, because somebody had to be out front during those most treacherous years, when the problems would be found, when the costs would rise, and when we'd have very Kerasiotes, for whatever was willing to do that. And he was willing to force If he said it was on budget, we'd all have to behave He described the game to me as holding a beach ball underwater. The ball is always looking for a way to pop up to the surface. And his job was to deny it away. To show the contractors and that this was the cost. Maybe his flaw was that Kerasiotes sold the he made people believe it. Maybe he even came to believe it himself. And when the beach ball did surface, when the fiction was how else could we feel, but betrayed?&quot; - I'll be honest with you, for the longest time, I just wanted to get the - Frank Martinez, the foreman felt the outrage and resentment as he worked those 15 hour - I mean, we got to the point that we don't even wanna because people was always pointing at us. &quot;Oh, so these the guys, You know what I mean? And that's basically one of the things that was bothering me a lot 'cause we just, they are People don't see what we go (gentle music) You start thinking about how quick nine I say, that time I had two little kids, by the time I finished, those kids, they were so big that I says, &quot;When the hell this happened?&quot; You know what I mean? You pretty much give until it gets done, so. Yeah. - Well I think you - Well good. - Is there anything that that feels important that you wanna say? - I think we covered just besides I have to go to work. (chuckles) - Yeah, I don't wanna, sorry, sorry. I hope I haven't kept you too long. (speaks faintly) - Oh, okay. (gentle music) The question I keep thinking about is whether the backlash and this narrative around it, were inevitable. If those cost increases had just been announced earlier, or more gradually, if the promises around the budget were somehow less forceful, would we the public have Maybe. But I'm kind of left thinking that if people had known all along just how expensive this it probably never would've happened. There's never really a good time to be transparent and which I think is why so many go through the same manic cycle, from promise to backlash, optimism to outrage. Because at the end of the day, you do need a number to aim for. Not so big, that it's scary, not so small, that it's laughable, something everyone can live with, and pretend is real. Then you just hope like hell, you're not too far off when the bill comes. (upbeat music) - Now the question is, after changing horses in mid dig, can the project be... - But the story is not over, and the politics of Big Dig funding, were about to get way weirder. - And, oh yes, who's putting the bill for - That's next time. All alone I sat there on the road Reading useless words and papers All day, I stayed awake From the noise all the engines make All day, I watched the plane go down Silent like a foreign movie All day, I stayed awake Reading words that you might have said (cheerful music) - The show is produced by Isabel Hibbard and myself, Ian Coss. It's edited by Lacey Roberts. The editorial supervisor with support, this episode, Mei Lei is the project manager, and the executive producer To see archival video and head to wgbhnews.org. And if you want to go deeper into the question of how we estimate the cost of big projects and why we so often get it wrong, I recommend a recent book by called &quot;How Big Things Get Done.&quot; He's compiled incredible and I found his insights The artwork is by Matt Welch. Our closing song is The Big Dig is a production of GBH News, and distributed by PRX. (cheerful upbeat music ends) - GBH. (cheerful music)