Wow. - Are these all your geese? - Yes, ours. Is this some special breed? These are geese of the Lindov breed. Delicious, probably. Very good taste. The Tatars say that you eat little, but goose. Do they walk, graze, or are they mostly in place? In the evening we graze, then I close it there, and here during the day. And here I've already plowed. - What did you have here, potatoes? - Yes. I see one lying there. Not everything has been collected, there are some good potatoes lying around. What do I want to say? The taste of any livestock, bird, even fish depends on what you feed them. What do you feed these geese of yours? Usually boiled barley and potatoes. -Where do you cook? - Here's a cauldron. For them there is a special cauldron and a special hearth. 90 l cauldron. How long does it take for them to eat 90 liters? This is one cauldron for the night, I close them here, and one cauldron for the day. That is, they eat 2 cauldrons a day? - Yes. How many days does it take for one goose to grow up? In 5 months. 150 days, 2 cauldrons. I would be delicious too if I ate like that. - Salam alaikum. - Isanmesez. Isanmesez. If I'm not mistaken, your name is Farida Khanum. Very nice. Your husband met me and showed me your farm and geese. And they told me that you know how to cook the most delicious zur balish in this area. Yes, I do, I can cook. -Have you already started making the dough? - No While you are out of the way, I will quickly feed you. These are potato shangs. Is this a Tatar dish? I heard that shanezhki, shangi is a Russian dish. Don't know. I myself come from the Agryz region. That's what they do there and that's what we call &quot;shangs&quot;. What did you put in the dough? So we will remove the shanks. Butter. - How many grams? - A pack. Strongly. I make the dough quickly. 1 egg, yeast, milk, a little sugar, a little salt. Approximately how shortbread dough turns out. But with yeast. It's clear. - And you are now breaking this butter into pieces? - Yes. I have to take a picture of this. My butter is a little hard. This is cold oil. Do you know why I take photographs at all? And why did I come to you? No. In fact, I am collecting material, photographs and videos for a new book about Tatar cuisine. Great. The leadership of your Laishevsky district advised us to contact you. They said that you are a great expert in this matter. So please bake this zur balish today. Okay, let's do it. No, shangi first. Yes, shangi first. So that I take a picture of your dishes in my hands and put your portrait in a book. There will also be soup with homemade noodles. - What is some kind of holiday today? - Yes, it's a holiday. - What holiday? - The film crew was waiting. Okay, thanks. Did you raise the yeast? With warm water and a little sugar. 120 ml milk according to recipe. And I can see it by eye. Farida, while we are kneading the dough, please tell me, you said that you have two children, you are married, and who is in your family from the older generation? Now my parents are very old. This year we brought them here. Now they will live with us. And my husband's mother also lives here in the village, but she lives separately. He also comes to visit us sometimes. Will you call me today? We'll invite you, of course, and we'll eat balish together. When my old people were alive, I liked to invite the old people to a good table. I myself also love guests very much. Well done, thank you. And this dough should probably stand. No, it shouldn't last very long, just a little. How many? By the time you prepare this puree, everything will be ready. This is a quick dough. It's clear. And delicious. - About 15 minutes, probably? - Yes, literally so. What does your husband do? A fire station was opened in our village. He now works there as the head of a post, and previously worked as a deputy chairman on a collective farm. He is a very economical guy. We used to have a quarry. At first, he also worked there as a boss. Boss. - Do you like to give orders? - He loves it very much. Now we will do this and leave it to rise a little. And what next? Will you make one big like this? No, these are small circles. - How are the pancakes? - Yes. -Where are the potatoes? - Potatoes on top. Why am I asking? You will show everything. Yes. It will be ready now. Farida Khanum, you have so many geese, but you don't have a goose feather? Was. In fact, of course, this has almost no effect on the taste, but some people like it when everything is the same as before, the way it was done before. That's what grandmothers do. Usually older people like it this way. Listen, isn't it hard like this, so many geese, such a farm, a vegetable garden? My husband says they collected 200 buckets of large potatoes alone. And how small it is for geese, they didn't even consider it. Not difficult? You get used to everything, it's difficult. The husband does all the basics. Please tell us about the puree. The potatoes are their own, that's understandable. We buy our own potatoes, almost our own milk, and buy it from our neighbors. We used to have our own, but now we no longer keep it. Add milk, butter and make it with eggs. - Aren't you going to close it from the top like this? - No. - Will it be open? - Yes. I myself come from the Agryz region. It's called shangi. And here, in my opinion, they say "b@r@n'ge p@r@m@che". How is b@r@n'ge translated from Tatar? Barnge is a potato. Marvelous. This means that in the Tatar language there is a separate word for potatoes. Because Uzbeks say "potato", Azerbaijanis say "potato". Everything has something to do with potatoes. And we have b@r@n'ge. This means that the Tatars loved this tuber so much that they even gave it their own name. And how now, will you fry in a frying pan? Yes, I will fry it in the oven. It will be baked in the oven. Don't you need to turn it over? And it will even bake beautifully. I usually flip this when I make it with eggs. It turns out more beautiful this way. Now we'll see everything, now we'll see everything. Tell us better about yourself. Well, it's clear that you are an excellent housewife, you have a very good family, you are a beautiful woman, but I'm interested in knowing your fate. Tell us your story. I myself come from the Agryz region of Tatarstan. But she got married in the Laishevsky district. I came to study in Kazan. I came to this village with my friends. There I met and got married. -Have you met Rauf? - Yes. We have two children: a daughter and a son. At first we had a farm. The grandchildren haven't gone yet? The grandchildren haven't gone yet. We're waiting, but not yet. They will, wherever they go. We are already waiting, but we are not planning to go with our grandchildren yet. This is what you are cooking now, b@rn'ge, again. We make puree, b@r@n'ge, add butter and boiled milk. This is such a very homemade meal, so that everyone is full. Both fast and easy. My son especially loves potato dishes. Can I tell the truth? I also love. I haven't tried it yet, but I can say that I love it. - My son doesn't like meat. - How can it not be tasty? What a wonderful dough you made, the mashed potatoes are so excellent. They'll bake it now. - Will you smear it with egg? - Yes. Where are the eggs? Let's have some eggs. And let's not mess around. Where did they hide the eggs? The eggs were taken away somewhere. I will bring it now. It's okay, don't worry. Now with eggs. Beat the egg a little so that the white and yolk are mixed. And spread it very thickly. Yes. The crust will be golden brown and the crust will be beautiful. Yes, it turns out very beautifully. So tell me, do you have any profession? I went to study at the Institute of Culture, but unfortunately I got married and didn't finish. What faculty was at the Institute of Culture? What do you like, what do you love? We had a new group there at that time, a manager-economist in the socio-cultural sphere. This is the profession I had to learn. That is, in fact, a producer, a manager. This has been a dream for a long time, more than 30 years ago. Then I got married, worked a little in a club, and worked in a store. And after my second birth, I began working as a social worker. Is the oven hot? That's it, I'll put it in. Approximately how many minutes will this bake? Tell me please. 20-30 minutes, probably, whatever happens. They will become beautiful, get them. It smells delicious, take it out. Well done. Oh, how beautiful. - Well, are you ready? - Is everything ready. We'll get it now. Wow, so ruddy, wonderful and beautiful. These are ready-made rosy ones. Generally surprising, 5 minutes, and a table full of food. Please tell me, now tell me how to eat them. It tastes great with cold milk. Can I try? Of course you can. Try it and rate it. Oh, it's hot. Should they be eaten this hot, or should they be allowed to cool a little? Who likes it how? Farida Khanum, can I give the film crew a treat too? Of course, that's all for you. Then wish them bon appetit. Ashlarygyz tamle bulsyn.