Preparation begins at 5:00 am! Noodles are vital! The clear broth is very popular! I feel like I can drink this much all the time 33 years old handsome owner struggles Two free chicken tempura! Delicious! Torotama bukkake A big fat 00 that makes you laugh! If you are a gutsy guy udon, this is the one for you! Rice + Tempura + Udon! The set meal of rice, tempura, and udon! #Shibataru mentaiko soy sauce is very good! Udon noodle shop with a long line To the main story 3 min. walk to the north from Okayama Station West Exit Set up store near Bongpancho 3-chome shopping street. Established 2024 5:00 Open at 7:00 a.m! The store where you can eat udon in the morning! 5:04 Making soup stock with kelp Udon noodle preparation Making salt water Making Udon Dough salt water Kneading Dough Fabric completed Reforging the fabric (Re-train the fabric) If I were a human being, I'd say... One bag is 9 kg. About 7 (bags) over the weekend About 60 kg of udon noodles are sold on weekends Putting pressure on dough Dough completed! Put in bags and let sit in the aging room Good morning 5:47 (Staff) Are you always this fast? Always early! (Staff) What does your sister recommend? I like chicken tempura bukkake too! Popularity NO.1 Chicken tempura bukkake 890yen The sun is coming up. Taking out kelp Kelp, bonito, iriko White dashi is completed. From white dashi Dashi for Bukkake Udon The first part was hard. I was told that the soup stock was not tasty. Talk to a dashi shop. So, we are now in the soup stock. Dashi is completed! Finishing udon Cutting Udon completed! boil 150 bowls of udon sold per day I recommend I like Mentaiko Udon noodles with egg and soy sauce. Noodles are boiled First one, take the heat. The second one removes the dirt. Udon completed Noodle check It's so delicious. Smooth and chewy The Batachie Mentama guy is making a specialty of it. This is Shibazuke tartar with I call it a &quot;Shibataru&quot;. I'm pretty picky when it comes to serving sizes. Rice is cooked 13 minutes before opening Pitcher ready 7:00 Start of business Pumpkin nara 1190yen Free large serving of all udon noodles We use homemade noodles Total 16 seats Counter 6 seats Add a friend on line and get a coupon! Meat sucking set 590 yen Noodle-You Set 1290yen Kake Udon 540 yen Raw egg 130 yen Tenzaru 1090 yen Bukkake 590 yen Hot egg buttered udon noodles with bacon tempura 1090yen Meat and rice 390yen Customers arrive as soon as the restaurant opens. October line coupon for 2 free chicken tempura! Tightening with ice water Tare Mentaiko, Shibataru Shibataru mentaiko soy sauce is ready. chicken tempura is fried Carefully arranged Bite into the sticky noodle I wanted to eat udon in the morning. Udon is delicious! Two of these chicken tempura were free! A bite of freshly fried chicken tempura Tender and tasty Thank you very much. Udon in the morning recharges energy! A man wearing a border comes to the store Order Kake Udon I'd like to order a large bowl of noodles for free. Large serving Make a breakfast set dried bonito shavings Finished in a flash Thank you very much. Thank you. A man in a suit comes to the restaurant Chicken tempura coupon use! Eat with gusto at The breakfast set meal is too luxurious. egg on rice Plenty of dried bonito flakes, egg and soy sauce Eggs are from Kyushu, Japan The yolk is mixed with dried bonito flakes and has a rich taste. A morning staple! I'm glad it comes with rice with egg. Uber Eats Uber Eats. Uber available for morning udon as well! 7:54 Heading straight to work One man orders tenbukkake tempura Tenbukkake completion A voluminous tempura! Order chicken tempura with coupon Gutsy brother eating tempura in the morning 7 minutes to finish the bomb! A woman comes to the restaurant. The noodle weather set includes 7 kinds of tempura Noodle weather set completed! Thank you for your patience. Big Meal Set Lunch Man in yellow comes to the store Making breakfast chicken tempura (specialty of Oita Prefecture) Breakfast set 590 yen Ika-udon noodle with a semi-transparent texture. The sweet soup stock soaks into the body in the morning. Mochi Mochi Noodles I'm happy to have a fish paste in it. apply a season Tabletop condiments Morning udon noodles are exceptionally good after a morning run! Finishing up the takeaway 9:08 Slow-cooked beef Japanese beef is used Cutting green onion Green onion cutting completed! Cutting bacon This is like a raw chicken carbo or something. It's in the pumpkinara. Morning only! Order &quot;Meat Sucking Set Meat sucking set 590yen Hot Meat Soup The thick soup stock makes the rice go faster. It is delicious with tofu! The dark yolk is delicious! Egg rice with egg over rice Free refill of rice! 11:05 Two men and two women came to the store Chicken tempura zaru chicken tempura (specialty of Oita Prefecture) Chicken tempura zaru completed Meat bukkake is completed. The elastic and chewy noodle is delicious. Man in suit comes to the store Order Torotama Bukkake grated yam Torotama bukkake is completed. It is excellent to eat it with yam and yolk! Chicken tempura given by on line coupon Crispy, juicy and satisfying! Glad to have a main dish coupon. Thank you very much. Customer is replaced by a new one This woman ordered Zaru Udon Arrival of colander! The best for a smooth and smooth feeling! Family of 4 visits Meat all over the place order is placed. First, let's start with a beer. Making Meat Bukkake Meat bukkake is completed! Making Noodle Clothes Set Noodle weather set completed The appetite is whetted by udon noodles filled with meat. (Staff) How about udon noodles? Good! I feel like I can go with just juice and beer. It tastes like dried bonito flakes or dried small sardines. I feel like I could drink this all the time. Delicious! The meat has a very strong soy sauce flavor. Meat that goes well with rice Two men in suits come to the store Making thick sesame bukkake Thick sesame bukkake is completed. Chicken tempura bukkake completed. Third time customer The seasoning of the chicken tempura is very elegant. Tasty chicken tempura bukkake. Meat Bukkake A big bowl of meat and a big meal! Chiku-tama-bukkake Order tenkake udon and ten sesame bukkake udon noodles in broth (no trimmings) Tenkake Udon is completed. Ten sesame bukkake is completed. 11:56 The finest udon noodle which is sure to be a repeat customer! Full stomach and ready to go home Thank you very much. bye-bye (Staff) Are you full? Yup! Udon noodles are so good that even children are satisfied! Conducting while running the store 12:02 Five new customers arrive at the store. Make hot egg buttered udon noodles with bacon tempura on top. Frying a big-ass bacon soft-boiled egg Bacon tempura udon noodles with hot egg and butter is completed. Big enough to make you chuckle. Mix well with hot egg Sip at once A bite of crispy bacon I was surprised it was bigger than I expected. Delicious! From standard menu to unusual menu Zaru Udon Fashionable~! Looks delicious! Photo time! Make Toriten Bukkake and Shibataru Mentaiko Soy Sauce Delight in the beauty of the arrangement Shibataru mentaiko soy sauce is ready. A quick snapshot Looks good! I'll take that, thank you. The texture of Shibazuke is addictive and delicious. Hmm! Shibataru mentaiko soy sauce udon noodles. It's got body, doesn't it? Delicious! I was traveling and Good atmosphere. It's so stylish, isn't it? Making Meat Udon Noodles meat Large bowl of hot udon noodles with meat 940 yen Excellent meat udon noodles made with Japanese beef! The flavor of beef blended into the broth is excellent. Medium-thick noodles with elasticity! If you are a gutsy guy udon, this is definitely the way to go! There are many kinds of meat udon to choose from! Finished the meal in 6 minutes! Batati Mentama Thank you for waiting! Mild, rich and delicious! The food is so delicious that I can't stop eating. This one is finished in 3 minutes. A man comes to the store on a whim. Order a noodle weather set The belly-bread set meal is completed! Tempura with salt Salt that brings out the best in tempura egg and soy sauce Noodle weather set rush! Two women come to the store Exit rush! Chicken tempura rush! large leaves Chicken tempura with three pieces of chicken tempura! The most popular chicken tempura bukkake is completed! Chicken tempura bukkake (hot), large portion, 890 yen With big chicken tempura! Signature menu of Menjyo... I'm glad it comes with lemon and shiso leaves. Udon noodles with lemon to refresh the taste! Freshly fried chicken tempura is crispy and soft. Mix well The udon noodles are too good. We make our noodles differently from other udon restaurants. I'd say they're aging well, and The water content is different Smooth and chewy I wanted to make udon noodles It's like we're finally getting it done. I want you to taste it and eat it. Ends today Since we opened And then we're going to take it and we're going to improve it. That brings us to now. Eventually, I'd like to First of all, we need to make sure that we have a lot of customers here. I want to make it a restaurant From this point on I'm partial to the dashi. Drink the delicious soup stock and warm yourself (STAFF) Good day. It's good to see you too.