upbeat jazz PETER: Good morning, guys. but today's video is not about the Strip It's about the periphery. Radius of 80 miles outside of the city. There is so much here in the Mojave Desert. We have everything from a ski resort to potential ghost town. We'll see how ghostly it is. Dusty towns that I have So we're gonna get out there today All right, let's do this. mellow jazz [woman laughing] WOMAN: This used to be the best, It's not anymore. MAN: It's the best thing WOMAN: Like I used to work valet from 6:00 PM to 2:00 in the morning. I could ride all day, go home, PETER: Whoa, whoa, -Not anymore, now I'm a bartender I used to be a f*cking valet, yeah, yeah. PETER: It's like living in two universes? -Honestly. You got this gambling, you got the 24 hour life, Literally got every aspect but on top of that 45 minutes in any direction, Do you like to rock climb? Do you like to snowboard? -Wake surf. PETER: Surf? ..you go from Las Vegas... -..45 minutes away, less than that, [ambient music and chattering] modern bluegrass PETER: Are many people clearing this? -Most are dumping in? Nobody? PETER: How was it? [Peter laughing] WOMAN: I wasn't even gonna go for this one I was like, &quot;Sh*t, I gotta. I gotta.&quot; PETER: You gonna do round two? -Hell yeah. PETER: He's going for it. ANNOUNCER: He's got the lean. ANNOUNCER: And out, successfully out. MAN: Stan the man, same costume every time. Still running it. Massive traffic control. Pond skimming is great, End of the season, massive pond, sometimes you'd go over all the way, slash at the end, splash the crowed. WOMAN: Three, two, one... Woo! Yeah! I love it. PETER: Are you an OG up here, &lt;MAN: She's an OG. -Since 1973. PETER: Whoa. MAN: You can go to other mountains like, better mountains and it's just, like it's... is kind of a little unmatched -It is. MAN: Route 91. -I was there. I just can't remember if it was 91 or... -That shooting was literally So that really helped them out a lot. -And Golden Knights is the second best -Excuse you. Excuse you. -Florida Panthers, -[with authority] We're the number one We may not have won because of politics. [all laughing] -I'm with you guys until the cup, The night of that concert and my husband and I, my husband and I 'Cause we were on Las Vegas Boulevard. Did that really... I woke up the next morning, -I was right on Las Vegas Boulevard. Like facing... where the shots were coming from. Like, I was the middle bar. -Yeah, but the moment that thankfully but it's just wild. PETER: Did that really -Oh, for a while. It really... to this town that -Interesting. -So it was like a September 11th -Huge September 11th vibe. Yes, yes, yes. Maybe not to that extent obviously but... -How many people died. No one thought Of all the things, And then the worst part for me, earlier that day, like when it was slow, it was mellow. There was, like, two dozen of us Like, working, waiting for it to get busy. -I literally remember &quot;There's a lot more kids today It was such a family vibe that day. -That's the part that I think is that I remember saying that. &quot;There's way more kids today.&quot; somber country PETER: Coming up on a small town up here. From my experience and get the hell out vibe or super open. But these little towns in the middle People choose to live out here. The older I get, I actually see the draw Don't think I could do it but I respect it. [music continues] It looks like we have a bar. This guy's got all the school busses. [truck door closes] PETER: &quot;No minors.&quot; &quot;Short Branch Saloon.&quot; Looks like they're redoing it or no, looks like a fire. Fire took down [door opens] &quot;Come Monday&quot; by Jimmy Buffett Some Jimmy Buffett going. &quot;Be kind to the staff [door opens] Nobody's here. [door closes] There's a trailer back there, check it out. KATHY: I've been here for 26 years. -And we're known -Bordello Run? -Bordello Run, 15 years. You know what a bordello is? -I don't, sorry. -[Peter surprised] Oh. Sounds better. -So you have a brothel run? You go on the motorcycles -We don't even care, anything. You can have an airplane, train. It's gonna start -Okay. -Which is in Vegas. Going to do the Area 51 brothel, -There's a brothel in Area 51? -Right there on 95. -Wow, so this is Nye County -Correct. It's part of the economy? -Make Nye... like ambulance, helicopter, which people don't know. Really, the money goes that far here? -A lot of money. -So the brothels have to be taxed -Correct. -So no one can just start a brothel, -Nope. -And you have to be squeaky clean, -Okay. I don't want to interrupt the game. -I don't want to interrupt... She may not have... &lt;WOMAN: ...Fire -Of what burned down... -No. &lt;I'm, sorry. Don't sorry, I came in here, that's fine. I won't put it on. -Yeah. -But we should go look at the bar. PETER: How did the fire start? -It was a methane gas fire Somebody threw a cigarette When you're on septic -Okay, wow. I'm sorry. That's brutal. Went from the men's room and because the attic started there ..and so all I need is trusses. You're gonna build this back? It's not a rebuild, it's a remodel. We have a good top plate on the front. -And we have a good top plate. All you need is one good top plate -Do you have a bordello here or no? No. My mother thinks we do. We're rebuilding this off of -Oh, I'm sorry. -And so I got... but it is not a brothel. She thought it was. -This is not a brothel, it's just a bar? It's a bar. -Okay, why don't you want to do a bordello? -I can't. -Um, why can't I? Because in Amargosa Valley What do you call it? -Their laws? ..one brothel in Amargosa Valley -So if you could, would you? -No. -You don't want it? -Why, is it too hard to manage? -I could work with the men -It gets pretty gnarly out there? A man and a woman A man can. But it's gotta be run by a woman. -Why is that? -Because a girl that works for you can say -Oh. -Otherwise, they could do Say you tried to have sex with me So there goes all your money. So the prostitutes have a lot of power -They would be... So you're gonna have to -Okay, yeah. -So their rooms have to be nice. Anything that they want you're -So what do people Because from the outside they might say, Um, what are your thoughts? What are the local's thoughts? -Locals are fine with it -Okay. -It's the people that are moving in and they're getting into Nevada government, But they don't do their homework. -Well it seems... but it seems like it's better than, you know, -If you can control it -Yeah. -Every hotel has -Oh, really? -So even... I'm not gonna get into trouble. It's all done through, um, the door men, that park your car. -So it's technically illegal -It's just here, it's legal -They're checked for what, -Uh-huh, anything. -I know we're not supposed to ask -Uh-huh. I was 75 in January. -You're feeling great? &lt;WOMAN: Kicks my a**. -Is it the bubbly water your friend has -No, I don't drink water. -I don't drink water. -My thing is wine and beer. I could get rid of and just have wine and beer. -You're killing They always say you gotta no alcohol if you wanna be... I drink coffee and there's water in coffee. -Oh, what's up with the Anheuser-Busch, -I can't even give it away. You serious? -No one's gonna drink it? -Bud Light was -Uh-huh. -Whatever cases I ordered for Bud Light, I ordered the same amount It's sad. -It's sad that business -Yeah. -Usually people know that I talk politics, -Okay, I didn't start it. [Kathy laughing] -Because what is Anheuser-Busch? -I did, okay I'll give it to you. -You shoulda known One word and you would -You see online that people -They aren't drinking it at all. -Out here, zero? I have Mexicans... -All the Mexicans here, the number one beer there's a dairy... -..And all the Mexicans If you drive down Farm Road to go Mecca, I think it is. To go to the dairy, on both sides of the road Now they went back to Modelo. -So the Mexicans -They are. Like I said, I can't even give it away. [Peter exhales] -Do you think that will last -If it doesn't... it didn't prove a point. -Hmm. PETER: Do you have -No, it burned up in the fire. -All right, can't give me an inside, Do you guys have a hot springs out here? -Yeah, but you can't swim in them. Hot springs, no. -It's a $500 fine. -Mercury? -Oh, pupfish. -&quot;Miss Kathy's Short Branch Saloon.&quot; So this... This has got stories. This has stories out here? -I had a battle of the bands. When I was younger and then all these bands would show up. -And they would play &quot;Wipeout&quot;. Last June I think I had a run, and I went around and I said this is what you get. We're gonna have a battle of the bands... And they played &quot;Wipeout&quot;, -Do you see a lot of stuff -You're talking about aliens? -All of the above. I don't believe in aliens. -My daughter works out there. -Okay, but do you see a lot of -Lot of military training at night 'Cause they come down and people think -Oh, they're parachuting at night? -Because out there and that's why they do all that training. -So there are a lot of -Just Creech. Where they do the predators and the drones. The number one flyer out of Creech Because they have -[Peter surprised] No way. -And they fly them out of Creech -So the women fly the predators 'cause... -Young, like how old? -Um, gosh, like 21, and a little bit... I don't even think they're 30. -Because their fingers work quicker? -Huh, that's interesting. ..was Shirley Muldowney and the drag strip. And they made sure Her husband, because she was so fast, Even her husband so that they... But women are fast, reflexes are fast. -The women are doing -Most of 'em. Most of 'em. -And a whole bunch of 'em Isn't that beautiful though? -I love the Mojave. KATHY: It's prettier today PETER: Well you just... -Uh-huh, and all these... -Yep. -Those are all flowers -Okay. So you'll see a bunch of yellow -You are a tourist information. Listen to you. &lt;WOMAN: And there's wild horses. there was two little babies and three adult horses -Butch Cassidy is buried at Johnnie. Which you're going into. -The town of Johnnie. -At the Johnnie Mine. and he got killed by a great big He actually is buried some place, But it's an unmarked grave. -Do I need to get out to Johnnie? -No, that's private. -It's private, okay. What else should I see in this town? -No, I don't think so. -Cruise some of the streets? I saw a guy with -That's my backdoor neighbor. Okay, if you need a school bus [woman laughing] No? -Yeah, he's definitely collecting. -Yeah, if you... Look, those are... ..cleaning up some wood and I was like, &quot;Look at that schoolie, -People... Those are becoming popular -He might be sitting on a gold mine. -I think he has one or two over there PETER: He's a schoolie connoisseur. But he used to own the gun shop -Okay, town like this, so you sort of -No. [woman laughing] -You have friends and enemies? Good job. -They just tore my sign down -Why? -You don't put up with any BS obviously. -No, and I know everybody and I know everybody that does the drugs. -Is there a lot of that out here? -If I drive around they say and I says, &quot;I'm not snoopy, If I see somebody on somebody's property I yell, and scream, and holler at him. I gave even Nye County even calls Which is 54 miles away, and they said, &quot;There's two girls fighting and I says, &quot;Yeah, I know who they are.&quot; So I'll go on the street I'll go on their property &quot;Well, Nye County just called me, &quot;If you quit I'll go back and tell &quot;But if you keep on doing this 'cause &quot;..well then I'm going back and saying...&quot; &quot;'I can't control 'em and I'll tell 'em the two places So you have a choice. You either go to jail, or you go -Okay. Or you deal with Kathy, -Yeah, one guy got made at me, Yeah, he got my beers... He got... gun. -10 gauge? -Shot through your house? ..and he's a felon. That's our judicial system now. I just laugh at it. He lives right over there. That's it? [Kathy laughs] -He lives right there. -In Nevada? I thought Nevada -Nope. It's the same, whatever you hear it's the same all over. -Did the bullet come close to you guys? -Um, I live over... It was my house. &lt;Peter. Appreciate it. You have the sweetest smile too but I totally understand. [all laughing] -It's the house over there. it's the octagon house. -And so he shot through, -You live in the octagon house? -Who lives in this Airstream? -Oh, that's mine. -That's another story too. -I could do a whole -You could. PETER: Harry from Canada's living there? ..until the snow goes away. -But are you gonna rent those rooms out? -Well I only do 'em for Airbnb. You go through Airbnb to stay there. -People Airbnb out here? -And then I have three... I have three camping spots -Okay. -So there's three of those if they bring -So people come out here because they want -Not necessarily. When they get out here and, um, I'm not here 24 hours They really criticize me. -Uh, some of them do. It's a high maintenance crowd... [sprinkler clacking] It's a high maintenance crowd I'm not that expensive. -If I was more money They don't read. And I call 'em Short Branch Bunkhouses. How big do you think a bunkhouse is? -I'd say a bunk house is 10 by 10. -Okay, these are 13 by 13. -But I got my... It's full of stuff I could look out my front window -That was your goal as a kid? -No, as an adult -Oh, yeah. -So the bar had windows facing that way. You could never see my neighbors smoke. -You don't like smoking? -No, I just don't like... I like the 750 acres in front of me. [chuckles] -Yeah, that's your front lawn. [sprinkler clacking] So when we gonna get this going again? -I need trusses. -I just don't have anybody -Nobody? -Last one I talked to he wants $950 and then we can go from there -Okay. -And Gwen and I can do sheet rock. -But we always look for help. [all laughing] Okay, so anyone out there that wants to -Yeah. -What will... No Bud Light, but... -No, I have Bud Light, that's free. [all laughing] -Okay. Yeah, we barbecue. -You barbecue, you can cook 'em dinner? You'll do the full... The full treatment? -You're saying you want to look someone -I wanna see. I wanna see 'em. -I don't like GoFundMe. They got me a GoFundMe -You didn't like that? ..in three days, I didn't have the slightest idea You kind of want to say -Okay. -You know, &quot;Thanks a lot, -We gotta get people out here. you want a great adventure, Around the Spring Mountains. -Come into Crystal and you'll be here. -My phone... My cell number's -Cell number's on the window, okay. -If they want me to come in, I'll come in &lt;It's mostly open Friday. -Okay. -Friday, Saturday, -Come to help support the cause with you ladies. That was great, seriously that was fun. I wish I could stay. I need to get out -You need to go out? [wind blowing] PETER: So ladies, you totally changed -What's wrong with that? ..or the ghost town I was thinking of. You can stop at Area 51 &lt;The only brothel in... -Okay, stop at the brothel? -'Cause you said -Well I wanted to I can't go inside with the camera, right? &lt;You have to go talk to them and ask them. -Okay. &lt;It's a little tourist trap. ..underneath your arm When 'cause when I seen it under your arm and then just talk. -You thought it was a gun -I have no problem. so you thought it was okay. -I have no problem with guns. Like, you're more worried about -You make eye contact. If your pupils were as big then we probably wouldn't be so friendly. You make eye contact Or tweaking? -Tweaking, usually when a person is on the verge of going off or whatever their pupils get real, real, real big. PETER: Last question, cops, or you have your own. -Okay. -'Cause we are our own sheriff. You don't like an out-of-towner coming in? -On the pay phone? -Yeah, yeah, even when they they didn't come out here for two hours 'cause they said, I didn't call. Are you packing? If you pack, everybody packs. -Where is it? -Okay. -We're not afraid of you. If I was afraid of you... -I would've... -I wouldn't have talked to you this long. -You won't believe how I talk to you or we have a problem. You know. You know that I don't like you. [Peter and Gwen giggling] Gwen even tried to split up a fight I just don't like her at all That's the worst thing you could do to me and she woulda went flying. -All right. Ladies, we've said goodbye -I know but don't drive fast, Highway patrol on the 95. Just enjoy your day. And if I get pulled over by the sheriff That might not get you any place. [all laughing] GWEN: Could be a double. -Double fines. All right Gwen, you have to turn around the front of the building and I don't wanna shoot you. KATHY: She'll have her picture taken. -Okay, from far back we can do it? -She will, we're buddies. -You ladies are awesome, that was fun. -Yes, it was. Drive careful. Drive safe. mellow jazz PETER: So guys, but I'm curious. We'll see if we can film any of this. Highly doubt it. [Peter and woman laughing] PETER: That's very cool of you to speak. So there's a lot of judgment obviously DEE DEE: YEAH. -But the ladies were saying -Mm-hmm. -You know, they really... because it's good for the tax revenue As in it's regulated How does it work here? They have to have a negative result -Okay. -Um, and then they also... they have to get a work card -Interesting. -And that... runs a full background check on them. We also do random checks on the guys To make sure that there's no visible signs So from top to... -Not background checks. No, we do, um... I mean it's kind of -Yeah, yeah. -Um, but, you know, the ladies are trained issues with the men's health as well. -Um, or ladies. Um, you know, sometimes couples come in. -Couples, that's interesting. -I wouldn't have thought that. -No names obviously that decided to have a wedding and then this was their... -Wow. They were super cute, -Wow, that's interesting, -Yes, uh, well there's multiple stories [laughs] -I bet. You're the general manager? The ladies are only This is their business. Um, actually through Nye county Uh, they're not even allowed Um, so you would have to come to the house Um, but from there is no door fee and there's no obligation Um, everything has to be 100% consensual I have a very stable house, extremely professional ladies. -Okay. -You know, I really don't have any drama. Uh, we don't allow drugs -Okay. -We focus on having and having the ladies work together. Um, which actually... Which actually makes for PETER: Cursa Capella, okay, talk to those compared to doing your services or house culture. -Well, you know, because it's a really safe -Okay. we have our licenses from the sheriff. Um, and there's people around. So you don't have to worry about that might be associated with, -Right. ..about the girls who do that for people who want -How long have you been here -I've been working here but I've been working -Do you plan to do this for a long time -I would like to do this for a long time. -I'm, you know, pursuing things that So I'm not letting it, um, sort of -Sure. -But I would like to -What are your other interests? -I like to repair vintage audio gear. I like painting, gardening, Oh, interesting. So do you live out here -I live here while I'm working. -Okay. -But right now when I'm home -So you come out here for like or how does it work? -Well all the girls kind of have I usually come out here and then I'll go home -Okay, so you're living, -Not really. -I mean all the people in my personal life, My family is very supportive. Um, but I just kind of split my time -Okay so does... Is that... Was that hard telling your family, or everyone accepts it you said? -Uh, you know, my mother She was like, &quot;Really, you're doing that?&quot; but then I sort of explained I want to pursue this and my friends and family and I'm really lucky. -Okay. What do people not understand? [inhales] -I think people don't quite understand... That's a good question, there's a lot. Um, there's a lot of, sort of ideas and how we do things. Um, I would say one thing is, like, people but we have to be because, you know, So we're taking care of the financials, Getting our supplies So there is a lot of work Um, there are a lot of things that people doing this independently There's a community within the house. There's people that you can talk to, and you know, all of the safety -Okay, so that's a big thing -Absolutely, absolutely. -Versus being on the streets That's gotta be very dangerous, right? -Have you talked to any of those women -I haven't necessarily talked with but I do know a good amount of people Like independent escorts and there are a lot of similarities, but there are a lot of safety things Like screening, you know, keeping everything kind of you know, in that gray area. Whereas here you don't have to worry -You choose the house you want to be at? -Absolutely, mm-hmm. -And why'd you choose this one? -I... That's a good question. I, uh, actually had a friend and I asked, you know, and she said, &quot;It's great, you should So I came over and I figured out, -You love it? -Really? No, it's a lot of fun We have a lot of freedoms. -We can go run errands whenever we need to. Um, there's no one, with clients that It is really rewarding. Whether you're on the provider side -Is it rewarding because the attention, -Sometimes. Um, what I really enjoy is being able to and to sort of help them complete something that might be Because a lot of people come looking for and there are people now, um, who are lonely and isolated because of and so people really need and that personal connection, and that's what [birds chirping] PETER: So guys, the point of this channel and let people speak. I let them do the speaking. I'm not doing the, uh... ..the narrative that you gotta Take that all for what it is. I have my own opinions Yeah, obviously that is a third rail topic very strongly one way or the other. My job and the point expose you to things and I'm sure some of you have seen and I'm not here to judge at all. And I will say that the safety element is a good one because right now they pretty much... uh... ..just let it fly from what I understand. From what I saw So what's better, that, with pimps, or this, and taxes, and testing? Oldest profession in the world. You decide. All right, now on to... [chuckles] Now on to a ghost town. Outside of Vegas is... Wow, from skiing, to cathouses. It's quite mixed up. mellow jazz I'd like to take a moment in this video at Avis Budget Rent a Cars I had a small SUV Which is awesome And also before we get out I have a new merch line. Finally have a new merch line. This logo here represents the channel. Bunch of different tees, some sweats. If you wanna support the channel click the link down below. All right, let's get out there, guys. Towards Death Valley mellow jazz PETER: &quot;Cook bank Building.&quot; Began in the spring of 1907, That's quite grand for being out here. It was open for less than two years a financial crisis caused banks by 1910 the Cook Bank was closed. Such a peaceful silence up here. About 110 years ago or so this place was thriving, horses, carriages, big banks, businesses. Adventurers would come from Mostly from the East though 1849 was that big gold rush We're almost in California. And all these explorers and adventurers came to the West to find their riches. To start a new life. To live in a very free place. I think with very little rules. So imagine coming across the country That is before air conditioning. Now we're up at, like, 3,000 feet here. So it's not too bad. I'm sure in the summer it's super hot. We're getting there through. &quot;Porter Brother's Store.&quot; &quot;Construction of their new building &quot;..used local stone and took four months &quot;Go to destination for Christmas shopping.&quot; &quot;Even the popular store &quot;..that would &quot;It closed in 1910.&quot; It's the story of America, right? When the opportunities leave, quite often you have to leave. I think it was more extreme back then. Like the minerals run out versus now, but we still have that trend now, right? If you're in some steel town or coal town 40 years ago, well, I don't know. I don't know, I'm actually going to in Appalachia. A lot of people stay obviously about that story. Which is crazy to think thriving, active, a lot of money being made out here, and then not long after... This. [wind blowing] Do you mind if I have the camera on? MAN: Yeah, that's fine. So you guys live around here. -Peter. -Nice to meet you. -YouTube. Derrick? -Javin. PETER: What was this, do you know? -Train station, -Yeah, so here and, like, Tonopah -No way. So they were getting That's why it's called Rhyolite? -They got gold from here? If you look right here, -Yeah. The bullfrog mine. -This one? ..you'll see some catch benches and that an old gold mine. My dad helped reclaim it out there actually when a company called Lepcorp So they're not mining gold anymore -Are you guys mining anything out here now? -No, just drilling. There's a small little mine but everything right now is just drilling. So it's lithium in the next three years but that's what's been going on A bunch of drilling for gold and whatnot -Is that what most people -Out here, yeah. You're either drilling or you're working -Do you guys love it out here? Yeah, it's nice growing up in a small town. -When you can come out, we and take pictures and everything. -You guys got nice trucks. -Thank you, that's that gold money -Is it? So he's my cousin, I mean I'm busy 24/7. My boss is always having me at a little rock pit So you name it, we're all over the place. -They pay you well? -Buying nice trucks with your money. I mean you guys are young. -How old? -Nice! -Just turned 16 in March. PETER: And you guys are all -[all] yeah. So you're hoping in three to four years and then the town's -Oh yeah, that's out... -I have, long time ago. -So Elko was like a boom town, there was That's where the money's at is in Elko We're hoping that Beatty Just a bunch of people, bunch of gold, 'Cause they got all kind... They got something called Where they're trying to open up on these back mountains called -Okay. -The big dog company So if you want to learn about gold Anglo is the number one, They bought everybody else out all kinds of drilling, they got some of drilling for them -You're not moving out, you're staying? -No, I'm staying here. I like it here. -That's cool. -What about the dating scene? -Oh, you bring that up, that's funny. to find a girlfriend because there's no... Like for me there's just -A lot of the, like, Northern PETER: So you like to pull down 'Cause we're in Southern Nevada. I love Northern Nevada girls. That's my thing, man. -Why is that? -Cause they're all cowgirls They're all like me. They're not, like, all city and whatnot. They don't like doing all kinds of I feel like that's kind of what separates I mean there's plenty of great kids in these communities -A lot of 'em see, like, the trucks, and think we're just d*uchebags too. PETER: Okay, but you're saying You don't smoke weed you're saying? -No, I've never smoked weed in my life, Drugs or chicks, if that come down to it I'm good. I'm just trying to keep Like I said, I'm 19 so I'm just trying and keep right. -A lot of people come out here, PETER: This is haunted? PETER: This is walkable here, right? -I think you can walk around it, PETER: A serious train depot. -[all] Yeah. -Supposedly this town There's a bunch of history here. I didn't pay attention in school really was booming back in the day -I hope Beatty just blows up Like, you go up North, it's cold, a lot of people where it's not too bad around, you know? All around year, I mean out here but I'd rather be hot than cold up in... Up in the northern areas, where you get a little bit nicer weather. The winters aren't as harsh out here, so... That's the whole hope, man. If you're staying in Beatty, National trucks, They're all the same trucks, big old -So I thought it was totally... because I came through town, that look a little beat up and I'm like... -But I just came through one way. -Everybody in the town, &quot;Oh, we're hoping for the gold mines.&quot; It's everything. Everything right now It's been like that -And you're optimistic it's gonna happen? PETER: All right guys, here we are, Full circle, hero's journey. What an adventure today. So many different types of people, Quite fascinating. Went off-course a bit which is when you get good info. And that was just one way out of Vegas. You go this way, you got Lake Mead, Haven't done it but maybe in the future. All right, guys, this is Check out my other videos on the city. Thanks for coming along. Until the next one. upbeat jazz