Hello, thank you for watching and supporting Parisa's channel. Connect with Parisa via WhatsApp 09921316954. Please like the video. Hello Mr. Operator . Welcome. Thank you very much. Your jacket is also dirty. It's cold now. I'll wash it. It won't dry. Rocky, my dear, I put food in the pantry for you. Go eat, my dear, Mr. Operator. I'm here tonight. At 12 o'clock at night, it is raining heavily. I put this barrel under the gutter at midnight and now it is full and even overflowed. Mr. Ali also called me and said that I am coming. It is also rainy and the road is dangerous . Come here in the pit, maybe you will get stuck, I should call Ali and they will tell you to be careful, it is very dangerous, he should take care of himself, Mr. Ali also came, thank God. Hello, Mr. Ali, say hello to Parisa Khanum## Ms. Parisa, give me some sweets## Thank you very much, Mr. Ali Mr. Ali, welcome, it's rainy inside, Mr. Ali's game with the swallow, well done, dear lady, come near the heater to warm yourself, the road was very dangerous, I even came with a chain, Parisa ## Thank you very much, Mr. Ali, I called you and said the road is dangerous, be careful, Ali # #Khanem Parisa, it rained a lot tonight in the city, even there was a flood## Mr. Ali, it rained a lot here too, even I put the barrel under the gutter, it didn't take a few hours for it to fill up, Ali?? Mrs. Parisa, what's up, how are you? ## Thank you, Mr. Ali, be safe. Mr. Ali came here yesterday. He had taken a taxi and the taxi couldn't come. How did you come here with a van? ## Mrs. Parisa, this van is long and it comes easily, even this van. It was difficult to get a ride that can't come at all, Parisa?? Yesterday when it was beautiful, the rain was less than today and the taxi couldn't come either, but thank God you came with a van. Well done, my dear, swallow, come in my arms , the lady is wearing a hat. Well done, good and kind girl, Mr. Ali, thank God, it's warm inside the house## Yes It only has wood inside, there is no need to go outside in the rain, Parisa?? Yes, I have wood inside the house and I have stored some in the warehouse, Ali?? Yes, put it inside the heater so that the house will be warm and you won't catch a cold. Take care of yourself, my daughter. Come, let me put on your hat so that you can warm up. The road is very bad down here. I didn't believe that the car could come, Mr. Ali. Be careful Parisa?? Again, thank God that you came back safe, Ali, Mr. Aga Ali. In your opinion, it is better to get a gas heater than this wood heater, because it runs out of wood in the middle of the night and the house gets cold. Should I go into the city and choose a gas heater for you, Parisa?? Thank you very much Mr. Ali Ali?? Yes, the gas heater is much better, it works with capsules and the house is always warm. I put a big log in the heater at night, and now the pipe has moved, I have to adjust it later, Ali?? If you want to buy a new heater, the price is high, I have to go find a second-hand one for you## Yes, please, if you can, find a second-hand one with a reasonable price, Parisa?? If you don't have time, I will go shopping in the city by myself## No, it's not a problem, Parisa, either I will go alone or we will go together. If I get a gas heater, I will use a wood heater during the day, and at night, I am also very grateful for Mr. Ali's gas heater for the sweets## Do you have permission, Parisa, Mrs. Ali, my beautiful sister came here yesterday## How are you, Parisa?? Thank God Ziba is also working and the client is doing sewing work. Ziba came by taxi to the road, then it rained a little, the taxi couldn't come, from there he walked all the way here, Ali?? Ziba is also very nice, God willing, we will visit her one day. Don't bother my daughter Mr. Ali, Parisa?? Mr. Ali, thank God, he did not give me another house. Thank you very much, Parisa?? It's only damp behind the wall ## Well, the back of the wall should be insulated too, Parisa, because it's a block right now, God willing, one day it will be hot, we should also insulated the back, so that he wants to brew, I'll make milk powder for the swallow, my dear lady, be careful not to touch Is the heater very dangerous ? Mr. Ali, the damned Sajjad came back here these two days and lied that he wants to see you, Parisa?? And now I understand that Sajjad has a problem, he came back here and said that the swallow cannot live in this desert, come back, let's live together, Parisa?? I will never go back to him and I don't trust him and I forgot about him, Parisa?? Ziba was also there and he said to Ziba, come marry me too, but Sajjad is crazy, I think he is taking something, and Ziba made fun of him and laughed at him, Ali?? The truth is, Parisa, Mrs. Sajjad, her condition is very bad, she has a problem, my daughter, come in my arms, don't bother Mr. Ali ## No, I love Prasto Mr. Operator, can you also please, Ali?? Mrs. Parisa, I saw Jad, I am sure that they use drugs and people who use drugs have ugly behaviors and are happy and say bad words and show ugly behaviors, they are crazy and they are inside the space and they do not have their own consciousness and control themselves. They have lost this Sajjad, he has become the same, he is not in his control, or he says he has a car, he says he has a house, he says he has clothes, he does not have his own control, his consciousness is in his own hands. Doesn't the substance also have an effect on these things and has destroyed him, Priya?? Yes, Mr. Ali consumes 100 drugs because he has no choice, shows ugly behavior, says bad words, probably Sajjad is a drug user, and his second wife is involved with him, and his consciousness has decreased, Ali is depressed?? He probably got into a fight with the second lady and is coming here to annoy you too, Ali?? Mashala, you are a smart lady, you are educated and you have suffered a lot. You must understand how much Sajjad bothered you, how much he tortured you. You must choose the right path and we Bakhtiaris have a saying that if someone once He cheated, it's his fault, but if he cheated on you the second time, it's your own fault for trusting him again . Does Ali cheat ?? Yes, Parisa, miss, because he cheated on you the first time, and the second time the same way, and he is totally depressed , Parisa?? Mr. Ali, I don't trust Sajjad's words anymore and I won't go back to him anymore and I don't even like him to come here and see Parisa. Mr. Ali, I was also a child at that time and I had no control over myself and we had a very difficult life, Parisa?? And we said that we should get married to have a good life, but on the contrary, Parisa's life became worse ?? Because of this, we decided to get married early, and we didn't even get to know about our marriage for a week. They came on Wednesday to propose, and on Saturday they got married and took me to Parisa?? In total, our acquaintance was about three days because of this decision, my life was soon ruined and now I have fallen on this day, Parisa?? The life situation was good for a year, but then I got a call, it bothered me and it got worse, Parisa?? I will never forgive Sajjad and I will never go back to him to live with him and I have forgotten him and I will also get my divorce from him Parisa?? And the court should decide that one day Sajjad will come to see Prasto, that he will come with a soldier so that he will not harm me, Parisa?? But I forgot about Sajjad and I don't care about Ali anymore?? Yes, Parisa, every decision you make, you should think that quick and hasty decisions will ruin a person's life, Ali?? You should use the experience and all the hardships you suffered so that you can bring a good life and happiness, Ali?? Now you are living with this little girl in this hard life in the desert with thousands of problems. It is really very difficult for you at this age. Now you should have been in the city. You would have had the best facilities, Ali?? And again, thank God that you made your house and you are living in it, only Sajjad's problem is that, God willing, he will be finished too, Ali?? Sajjad, who has no sense, has no intelligence and has ruined your life, I am only sad for you, Parisa, Mrs. Ali?? Sajjad's only goal is to come here and annoy you, Ali?? And don't worry at all Miss Parisa, everything will be fine, God willing, you will have the best and good life in the future. Rocky, my dear, come inside the warehouse, eat today , the meat has run out. The capital of Agha Ali's love and affection towards this family. Agha Ali talking to Swallow, Agha Ali yesterday, how much enthusiasm the Swallow had the moment he saw Abolfazl and Aileen## Yes, well, Parisa, Mrs. Swallow, is always herself. She is alone, she always has to have fun. Yesterday, I was sad for Ziba. She walked a long way to the road. The weather was also rainy. Her children are cold. Thank God, Ziba is also working and sewing and providing for her living expenses. Rocky, I'm sorry, today was rough. And I couldn't go and bring you meat, thank God, I insulated the roof quickly, otherwise the roof of the house would have been destroyed. If the cement of the warehouse was dry, I would have insulated it too, so that the warehouse does not get water up here. It is also very dangerous, it is the way of the flood . When the weather is sunny, we have to stop the water so that the water does not penetrate into Parisa's house . He does not have a good life and I am very sad for him and I will help him whenever I can. I hope that his life will get better day by day. God himself always takes care of his servants. Again, thank God, he will go home soon. I made the isogam, now Ms. Parisa, I am relieved that the roof of the house is not giving, I should fix the roof of the warehouse as soon as possible, but it must be dry. Please, Ms. Parisa, let me break the wood myself ## No, Mr. Ali, thank you, I will break them myself. Mr. Ali, I have wood ready, I just wanted to store these, they should be dry so that they can be broken easily, I have to store them in big coals, I think the swallow is going to sleep We are in winter and the rains are intensifying. You have to take care of yourself and your swallow. The turnip is cooked but the lip is not cooked. We should fix the back of the house when the weather is sunny so that water does not penetrate, thank God. Mrs. Parisa, the roof was damaged. If it wasn't for Izgan, the roof would have been destroyed. It has been raining for two days now, thank God it has rained, and now the owner of my land will come in a few days and plow the land. Ms. Parisa, always have extra wood in the house if you need it. If not, go inside and keep the house warm so that the swallow is comfortable, Ali?? Anytime you need something, please just tell me to come because I don't want you to be bothered## Thank you very much sir Ali thanks Ali?? I also ate my turnips and I have to go## Mr. Ali, please sit down while I fry the pumpkin and let's eat## No, thank you, Miss Parisa, the rain has intensified and I have to go soon, it's cold until I go to take Rocky to his house, my dear Rocky, come on, you must go inside. I should provide a gas heater for them because they are bothered like this and they will have problems with wood in a few days. Well, Parisa, I have to go too. Goodbye ## Ali sir, please sit down to eat, now it is ready. It's ## Thank you Miss Parisa, I have to go, take care of yourself Mr. Ali, I would like you to sit down to eat ## Thank you Ms. Parisa, stay healthy, I have to go soon, the rain has intensified, Ms. Parisa, please have this umbrella## No, thank you, Mr. Ali## Ms. Parisa, do you need more umbrellas? Please tell me## Thank you very much Mr. Ali, go well Mr. Ali, God help him in the rain. The road is very dangerous. God bless him. He also gave me this umbrella. I will call Mr. Ali later and see if it has arrived. My daughter, Swallow, my dear, the oil has also run out. I must go to the market and buy. My daughter, Agha Ali, you were also asleep. Well done, my daughter, sleep until you grow up. My daughter, let's eat pumpkin. Let's eat it until it cools down. Thank you for watching us until the end. Please like the video