I hate references. Remember when Wario was on SNL? Or that time Rick and Morty showed up in Space Jam 2? That was so pathetic. I will never forget this scene until the day I die. These faceless corporations and billionaires beloved fictional characters just to make us like references can actually be pretty cool. A lot but it's usually to show appreciation for the corpse can be found in Ori and the Blind Forest, Turning our attention to Hollow Knight, it Very few things stand out as blatant Easter believable. But the game isn't completely So in this video, we're going to Knight to see if we can find some subtle Metroid is a good place to start since that's an of people make is the jellyfish of the Fog Canyon artificial lifeforms that suck the lifeforce of Hollow Knight are maybe artificial lifeforms similar mechanically, it makes sense to consider pretty weird thing to put in your bug game for no The more blatant Metroid reference, I think, Shade Cloak ability. The way this creature is is very reminiscent of the Chozo statues from who have apparently been to every single planet statues holding power ups that Samus can Next up is Castlevania. Most Castlevania one phase as his normal design, and a second phase Final Fantasy boss or a 1993 Toyota Camry. Grimm in general, but the Grimm fight definitely has fights of Castlevania. The pillar spikes are Castlevania 3. And the cape attack with the Another Hollow Knight boss, Galien, also appears Death. Both fights involve scythes flying so it might not be intentional. Also, so it could be that the backer was the one In fact, backer content is where the Waldie in the Spirit's Glade is an obvious nod to manga series, Berserk. And then, there's where backers were able to leave simple H. P. Lovecraft quote, except they replaced Another message says "Good Luck Skeleton", people can leave in Dark Souls games. And A lot of people claim that Dark Souls had it's undeniable that Hollow Knight especially in terms of the respawn mechanic. But there really aren't any blatant references to Dark story between the two games. The main comparison warriors who are tasked with fighting off a age of stagnation. So there's sort of a missed the opportunity to put the T-Posing guy A similar fantasy themed game that Team Cherry is Faxanadu. This old NES game is about a traveler Tree. The protagonist finds that an Evil One are now attacking the Elves, and they now have Team Cherry has stated explicitly that Hollow beginning. There's a wanderer arriving back to a kind of affliction. So you could consider the Hallownest as a sort of homage to the opening of a place is such a standard plot point, it's hard Another stretch I've seen people make regards people have pointed out that the Dashmaster hit Earthbound-inspired indie RPG Undertale, that with black eyes and blue on the sides, a design Do I think this charm is an intentional No. But would it be so bad to just pretend Yes. One aspect of Hollow Knight I really love is how something about this tune sounds oddly familiar. The main comparison I have seen a lot of people make is to the Luigi's Mansion theme. Now to avoid the song for a few moments, but it should be [Unknown music, probably nobody owns it, don't check ] Pretty similar, right? However, the by a theme from Super Ghouls and [Spooky music] [Cornifer humming some mad bars] It's not an exact match, but it sounds like a However, Team Cherry has denied who knows, it might just be a coincidence. I've seen a few people claim that Midwife's from the classic Studio Ghibli film I mean, I do see it, and both William Pellen university. They even have statues of various and that annoying ass cat from Digimon in their Away, as it's one of the most critically Their designs are pretty similar, but their and a mask for face, so it's not the most unique. Probably the most defining feature of Midwife mask doesn't do. But it's not impossible We do see him knitting at some point, so maybe Speaking of... anime, I think I should mention mentioned this movie before as an influence. on this channel, but I think it deserves more did I just watch?" kinda movies. It was directed and animated by him and Yoshitaka if you could even call it that, is about an carrying around this egg waiting for it to hatch. her that the egg is empty, and that she needs The film is an inversion of the Noah's Ark story, so there is rain throughout a good portion of city at one point that eventually becomes of several long dead creatures have now turned show up in Hollow Knight, even including a We can even see these influences from the earliest forging its own identity. This image evokes the the original art for the Hollow Knight soundtrack that I think it's probably intentional. Speaking of weird media that Team let's talk about Dune. Dune is a series of science vying for control of a desert planet rich with a melange. The original novel was and is considered by many to be one of Team Cherry read through the Dune books while reading through them myself to find any sort fourth book, God Emperor of Dune, and while there of similarities between certain elements of Dune For example, the spice in the Dune novels the power to see possible futures depending King also has a type of presence, although Emperor of Dune a giant wormman takes control of all of civilization into a sort of stasis where This is a little bit similar to what Knight was sealed away, although the details are a little different. I would explain it to you, But there could be one explicit Hollow Knight Wyrm form, which is similar in design to Dune's planet of Arrakis. In particular, the ingame Wyrm the sandworms. H. R. Giger is the man behind that he did some concept art on an unreleased film no means the most popular design for the sandworms didn't actually reference it when designing their There's one final Easter egg I wanted a character who spends his time wallowing in shit. As you can see, Hollow Knight is since half the stuff I mentioned in but we can still find a few hints here and there. that I might have missed, so let me know in But all of this discussion does Are there any references to Hollow Knight in other someone to make a video about. It would even be