Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, not to say that the transformation of my brother together to pretend to be poor What do you two want to wear so well At least our family is the richest man in the city. We can't do that. My brother's 100000 yuan a month is used as game currency, and he 200000 rewards the anchorwoman. If you don't reform the child, it will be useless. Line deformation meter began to change Where's the nanny's meal? Your young master is hungry. Please cook quickly. Don't move when you break into a private house, eh It's not one of you. Who are you? I who blind you dog eyes I don't know this young master. Be careful. I asked my sister to drive you all away. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Well, sister I'm sorry, why are you dressed like this? Elder sister, how can you talk to the master? Master I'll kill your son, mother and son. Our Jiang family is bankrupt. The house was sold. What bankruptcy Alas It's okay, we still have a car. We have a Rolls Royce We haven't sold our car yet, have we? Come on. What Rolls-Royce Now this is our family After three rounds of breaking, dad picked up bottles to feed our family. It's hard work Dad, no, wow. My life is over before it begins All right, all right You hurry up Help my dad pick up some junk and earn some tuition for you. Dad. Didn't Uncle invite us to dinner tonight? We can borrow money from him I remember my dad lent me my second uncle 5 million Let's ask juwan to pay us back 50000 dollars first. That's enough for my tuition. We don't have to collect waste products either. Right. Just do it 17, what to do? Smelly boy, usually bad at math At the moment the brain is turning so fast, what are you waiting? Get in the car. Hey. Get in the car, get in the car, get on the manager. I invited my richest brother to dinner today. The most expensive wine in your hotel. All the best dishes are arranged for me. You can rest assured That's right. We have to show the state No matter what method is used, we will borrow tens of millions of investment funds from our eldest brother. Ha ha ha ha, no problem I heard Shi Qi likes Han Shu's red waist best. I made a special meal for Tai today. Mom and Dad Here we are, er er er er Where's the smelly begging This is the most upscale hotel Fuck off, second uncle, huh Second Uncle Big nephew 17, yo Isn't this my richest brother and sister-in-law? It's not you. What are you doing here? What is our family bankrupt? Bankruptcy Look, this little face is still very tight and tender. It seems that this function is useless Bankruptcy, huh? You're kidding. Uncle and aunt, let's eat first. Eat well first. Eat first, big brother please first Wow. So many good dishes Take a plastic bag later, let's pack it back Or is my sister the smartest Silly brother, your family is really poor The waiter returned all the dishes to me Auntie, what are you doing? Ask you poor relatives to eat whatever you want. It's hard to eat from extravagance to frugality. You 'd better adapt to the life of the poor. Second Uncle You all know about our family. My dad lent you that 5 million, oh We don't want more Just give us a 50000 today What are you talking about Who did you lend it to 5 million, why didn't I know about it? Besides, do you have an IOU Hmph, Second Uncle We are all a family, still play what IOUs ah Not even an IOU You are poor crazy, want to correct our money is not how ah Your family wants to default, right? To whom to speak Are you asking for money? Elder sister Why don't you give auntie a toast? If you have no backbone, forget it. You still let your sister humble, mud can't help the wall Second Uncle and Second Aunt I toast you to a broke pauper. We can't drink this bad wine. Our family used to help you, didn't they? A pack of ungrateful white-eyed wolves hum Bankruptcy is still so tough I 'd like to photograph all the tricks of your poor family. I asked all my relatives and friends to see Come on, you can shoot it. Don't bully my sister, parents, sister They don't give the money, and we don't want it either. I will try to give you a good life My son is sensible, huh Hard work, this poor life can not be changed by hard work. Unlike our family, we will soon cooperate with four major groups. You can't catch up with our little finger all your life. Are you sure you have cooperation with all four major groups? That, of course. Without your home, we can still drink spicy food. You will regret it Isn't that the bosses of the four major groups? Zhang Zong, Wang Zong, Liu Zong, Li Zong Are the bosses of your four major groups here together? We came to see you Wow, wow This is to talk about how much business ah Our family is going to be developed, no What is it that our cooperation between Zhang and you has all been canceled? The royal cooperation has also been canceled. Li and Liu also canceled Is there any misunderstanding between this and this Before, I saw that you were relatives of the Jiang family before I cooperated with you. Now I'm cut off from the Jiang family. What is this thing Isn't the Jiang family bankrupt? Why are the four major groups still Jiang's family I Jiang Shaohu I'm the lead attorney for Justice. The 5 million you borrowed from Jiang's family is limited to one week. Otherwise, the court will see that their family is bankrupt. How can you still have such an expensive lead lawyer? Of course, because Our family is not bankrupt It's over. It's over. Aha. We, Jiang's Group, just went bankrupt. Sister How will we live in the future? You just study hard Even pick up waste My parents and your sister will provide for you to graduate. I will try my best. I'll go ride the tricycle Uh-huh. Mr. Jiang, the new plaque has been changed Meat Wing Group 17 In order to educate your brother and let you bother to change the name of the company. This is earned by Dad's A shares. 50 million reward you Thanks, Dad. Uh-huh. This is the Patek Philippe that my mother took 30 million to photograph My daughter worked hard. Thanks, mom. Mom and Dad Our company changed its name. In order to make my brother believe that our family is really bankrupt This can not be found oh Get in the car Accompany me to school, uh-huh Hey, miss yo Hi, Mom. Are you all right? Which one is blind Almost rubbed on our car door I think you're the one poking your eyes under your eyebrows Don't look behind when driving. In order to avoid you, our family almost fell down It serves you right. Your family stinks of selling waste products. If you see a luxury car, you should stay away. If it is really broken, it will be sold. Your whole family can't afford to pay Unlucky Hey, sister Forget it. Our family is bankrupt not to be provoked Mr. Jiang, how did your mountain forest manager come in person? Uh-huh, school principal I'm not a school manager anymore Our family is bankrupt. It's all sad things Don't mention it again Hey. Son, let's go first Alas Headmaster, to train my brother to be a good man. Our family is pretending to be poor. Cooperate, Jiang Zong You really took great pains to educate your brother. Hi. It's hard work. Go ahead. Study hard Let's go. What kind of garbage-collecting children deserve to go to school with my son? It's an insult to my son. You collect garbage one by one Why is your mouth so smelly I think you got up in the middle of the night to go through the garbage can and steal old pickled cabbage. I'm the wife of the president of the Wang Group. Don't you dare talk to me like that I asked the principal to fire your brother Hmph. Don't brag You're not a school manager. What qualifications do you have to fire someone? You still don't know School directors are the province's new richest man President of the Justice Group, that's not me Tomorrow, my husband. To sign a big contract with the Justice Group. When the time comes, I will mention it to the president by the way. You can fire your brother. Oh ho, mom I'm so scared You know, scared. Uh-huh, it's too late Wait for your brother's withdrawal notice, ah ah Something happened. Listen to the security guard at the school gate I'm about to be expelled from school How many times have I told you Don't be surprised when things happen. Don't start messing around at the first sound of the wind. Elder sister, why are you so good No matter how big things happen, you can calm down and skin care. Hey. But this last bottle of Han Shu red waist how so durable Go back to class Smelly boy, I pretend to be poor every day for you, and my face is broken. Look, my sister will amaze the audience tomorrow. Let Wang too regret, don't come The signing ceremony will begin soon. Why hasn't the president of this justice group come yet? Hey, the president is here. You guys are really bold. Any occasion to dare to make trouble There is no rubbish for you to collect. Go out and be presumptuous Isn't this Jiang 17, president of Jiang's group? next to him is chairman jiang wenbin, oh So you are the bankrupt Jiang family No wonder your family is so tough. Alas It's a pity Jiang Cheng is now in charge of the Justice Group, oh After today's signing ceremony My husband will become a partner of the Justice Group, right Husband Well, is it? Can cooperate, not necessarily oh What are you? You can still influence the decision of the president of Justice Group. Today, I'll leave the words here. I object to your cooperation Ha ha ha ha ha, this is ridiculous Our Wang Group is the largest company in Jiangcheng by market value. No. You ask the boss in the place See who dares to oppose our cooperation Ah. I... I object I, against me, against me and against me. What are you doing? We're the one Who's with you? We're all here today for Jiang's sake. What do you mean? This you still don't understand, justice group is Jiang's group changed the name. President of Justice Group or Jiangdong President, we were wrong Can't because of my wife affect our cooperation It's hard not to be affected No, no, president. From now on, he is not my wife Husband Oh, how should I live I... Oh, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, don't be afraid I can introduce you to a job Really? Thank you, President. I can be a cow or a horse, okay Come on. In the future, you will contract all the garbage in my family. Madam, your coffee Well, it smells good This is Ospinaglan coffee flown in from Europe. You drink this cup of 3000 yuan so expensive All departments pay attention to concealment, received Hey, mom, my dad is setting up a stall there pretending to be poor to educate my brother. I don't have the heart to let us enjoy it here. Go home and let Michelin chef do an Australian dragon hand and foot to make up for them. Dota2 Shine the shoes of this young master How can my chairman be like this? Or you go somewhere else I don't earn any money for you. Do you look down on this young master I tell you, my father is Li Wei Ben is the general manager of the largest group, Justice Group. Now can you shine my shoes Justice Group Then we can't afford to offend Dad, you rest with me You want my son to do his homework. I'll do it. Ah, what are you doing This pair of shoes of mine is rubbed with imported cowhide, ah How much are your shoes? I'll pay you, you a smelly shoeshine money to me You look down on me, ah My shoes will cost you 30000 dollars. I hit, ah You have to be reasonable I'll give you the money now. Put away your broken money. In this our young master is reasonable Don't move. Pan Zi, hey Don't fight, don't fight, don't do it. Still dare to resist I let you despise my son Dad, you poor people are being bullied. After seeing this young master, get away from me and be comfortable. The old sisters who met me recently all said that I was several years younger. Of course, also elder sister Woo elder sister ah, what's the matter Get the medicine quickly. What's going on with the medicine? Lightly bullying my son and husband I'm tired of living, brother. Take good care of your parents at home. Let's go Meteor, come on, come on Cheers to me all out Don't get out of here You are your young master, not one of you. Lao Zi's surname also dare to sweep my father is the justice group You smashed my husband's stall today. Remember? Who's your husband? What stall You also hit my brother, remember You just shine my shoes The poor family still dare to beat me in my father's territory. When did the Justice Group factory become your father's territory? Why are you waiting for someone to come? Who dares to move? Dare to touch one of our hair I let you regret to kneel Don't scold me for playing ah ah ah ah Who dares to come I'll unload him. Don't come here. Don't come here. Your father's name is Li Wei, right You don't deserve to know my father's name. Let Li Wei arrive in 3 minutes. Go and call Mr. Li You give me waiting When my dad gets here, your whole family will be screwed. It's still called here, ah Who is it? Who can touch my son? It was the two of them who beat me. Ah ah Boss, how dare you disrespect the president Li Wei Your son hit my dad. How about this? Children don't understand, I will punish him 3 million 3 million enough? Do you think our family is short of your money? If you can't discipline your son I don't mind discipline both of you at the same time I don't care which foot you kicked Jiang's father's right foot Break that right foot. Carry the hospital Aha. Eat, eat, eat, eat, cut, cut, cut, ah, ah, ah Zhang Zong This is the super king crab you auctioned off Value 300000 Mom and DadTaste it. 17 in order to reform your brother Our family has been pretending to be poor for three months. Finally eat something good But we won't be found by your brother It's okay, it's okay to eat Ah, you guys Ha, ha, ha, ha, where did you get the money to eat such expensive things? No. When we were picking up waste just now, we saw this table of people eating the leftovers. You see so many waves Don't say it. I can't let you live like this in our house again. I'll call my brother-in-law You go live a good life with him It happens that you two have been in love for 5 years since college. Doctor graduation should also talk about marriage Just meet the parents in advance. But I haven't told my fiance yet. I 've been wearing it for a while. 17 Look, I brought you your favorite red waist. Thank you. Why are they all dressed like this? 17 Looks like the rumor that your family went bankrupt is true Yes, brother-in-law So when my sister gets married You have to be nice to my sister We came here today to talk about marriage. In this brocade box, it's a bride price. What about inside 500000 at most, at least How much can I get for ten dollars? It's all your luck. You this is what reason Why is it all ten dollars? Five years of feelings, but in the end you humiliated me with ten dollars. You are the price If it weren't for your Jiang family's money before I don't want to be wronged yet. My son is with you. Even if you can marry now, you can be regarded as climbing high branches. Then I have to thank you Thank you for letting me see your bastard face before marriage. How dare you hit my son What? Fortunately, you have not been the only one my son has developed over the years. Also climbed the Miss Li family The somebody else is the real daughter to break up I'm marrying Miss Lee I don't care who you marry, give me back the patent I developed during my PhD. You want to be beautiful, patent now belongs to me You still dare to rob my sister's research results Who won her patent? Tomorrow, the Justice Group will give my son the award himself. When we receive the prize, we'll go to the celebrity Li's to propose. Right, the Justice Group. It's the super group that replaced your family as the new richest man in the province. I'll be human after tomorrow. Welcome to witness my success, OK Hum, have you done everything I told you? Well done, President Sister Well, what's the matter Oh. This I bought you Han Shu Hong Man Waist 2.0 from frugality. I wish you In the new year, even if you leave that love rat, you should have a good skin care, just as radiant. Okay. My brother grew up Er, sister, who did you talk to just now Me, my lovelorn syndrome I talk to myself, sister Don't worry I'll even ask for leave tomorrow. I'm going to beat the shit out of that bastard Then go to the Justice Group and get your research back. Well, you don't have to worry about it. This bitch will accept it one day. Do you know I believe in me, tomorrow is his death Son After today, our family is on the rise. Next, the president of Justice Group will present the patent developer with a trophy. Wait a minute. He's not eligible for this award, Chiang 17 Because this patent is mine, what is the situation I advise you not to cause trouble. I have all the research and development information. Can you get the research and development data? What research and development materials are there in this box Hey, how is this charged? Unlock successfully Ha ha Because this box can only be unlocked by the developer's fingerprint The thief still dares to come and receive the prize. Shame on you, don't embarrass yourself here. Just a prize. My son and Li Jia daughter this backstage Are you talking about me? Nana, what are you doing here Damn, I know the truth. Don't appear in front of me in the future This is such a person I didn't expect to be ashamed I'm sorry. Just now, as for me, the whole live broadcast Your rich dream is broken It doesn't matter if you fuck up my marriage. The Justice Group has signed a 30 million contract with me. I 've already sold the patent. My son signed it. 30 million, you won't get a dime. What are you, cooperation cancellation? If you say cancel, cancel, all employees will have it. Tell him who I am Good president, good president You're the president of the Justice Group The province's new richest man Oh, my good daughter-in-law Look at this, alas. Adults have a lot of left us a way to live Good. This is to see your luck There are three cards here, only one is not a dead card I'll take the middle one. Mom, I'm so lucky We don't have to die You don't have to die But if you want to live, you might as well die. Take it away. Dad, I won't find out the three of us secretly enjoying ourselves here, will I? Misunderstanding, this villa is worth 0.1 billion But I secretly filmed it. Even the housekeeper is WeChat contact Never met before. Your brother won't find out. Well, hello, who ordered takeout I... Sister Hey brother, how did you deliver takeout? This is the case in our family. I came out to work and study. What are you doing here Ha ha ha oh We also want to have a good life So I came here with my mom to babysit Dad came here as a gardener Hey, dad, pick it up. It's going to be 17 Your family is working as servants here. Aha, Mei How did you get in I swiped my card to come in My husband is the housekeeper here. At ordinary times, when the master is away, this grass and trees We manage it all. I 've heard that your family is down and out. I didn't expect to become my husband's subordinate It's not that my family is down and out. Why are you so gloating Nonsense. See annoying old classmates have a bad time. I'm glad it's too late That's right. You're the nanny here Pour me a cup of tea Uh-huh This house is not yours What are you pretending My husband is your leader. Not flattering Okay, I, you all don't do it Oh, my God So you go in and sit down Wait a moment, I'll give you the way Come on. Come on, Chief Mei Please drink water. Hey! Where did you pick it up Hot, toilet. Hey, do you think it's still hot Jiang 17 you are expelled, your family drink northwest breeze Alas, Mr. Mei, don't be angry. It's not easy for our family to find a job now. Please give me another chance. The Jiang family is nothing great. Not have to obediently bow to me to admit I think I can forgive you Ask your parents to give me this glass of water Don't go too far If you don't have sincerity, forget it. Sister People have to bow under the eaves Ah. Give your face, what are you doing Sister Although our family is poor But you taught me not to be a man without backbone. No matter how big the eaves are, they are not as good as having an umbrella. He changed his parents' sixth grade and finally understood. We don't have to pretend to be poor in the future. What are you talking about I can see at a glance that you are poor without disguise. I'm calling my husband right now Let him drive you all away Hey! Husband, someone bullied me You come quickly Wife who bully you They're going to fire these servants. What a servant I haven't seen any ginger 17. You're not only poor, but you're also pretending to be a servant to break into someone else's house. I am not a servant, I am the master What are you talking about here? This villa is worth 0.1 billion, what proof do you have? See? The key to this villa You incredibly Lin Yao who dare to forge How do you explain this You really think of yourself as a master Even the photos are hanging here I am really speechless about your IQ. Call the general manager and I'll see if he knows me. Good. I'll call the general manager right now When the general manager comes, you're dead. Good. I'm waiting, Mom. Sit down. Just in time, I can have fair and square skin care Your family is like this, you still protect your skin. You dare to steal the villa owner's Han Shu Hong Man waist I'll have you thrown out right away I know where the red waist in every room of this villa is. I hoarded a lot for a rainy day. So tell me, who owns this house? Elder martial sister, it's still thoughtful of you. It turned out to be stealing the villa owner's cosmetics. Is really not clean hands and feet You should check and see if there is anything missing in the house. Especially valuables. I found out that the pearl of the night is missing. What Jiang 17, you really are a thief The pearl of the night is the most expensive thing in this villa Value 50 million Can let you sit in jail I take everything in this house Not enough to steal. Less chicanery here My husband arrested him. You dare to stop The manager You finally came Tired of living You ah How dare you disrespect the general's family? Jiang 17 is really the owner of this place. Jiang Zong, my wrong wife still don't hurry to apologize to Jiang Zong Jiang always provokes the wrong person. I will disappear immediately and so on. The pearl of the night in this house is gone How do you calculate this? It has nothing to do with us Mr. Jiang, please check it You see, we don't have this This is definitely not Oh, my God Yo It seems that I don't need to find it myself. Why are you here? You are a thief. It's all your fault. What are your hands doing so fast? You steal and you beat me I haven't blamed you for losing my job yet. You hit me to kill you All right. You stole my 50 million pearl, 20 years to start When you go to the bureau, there is plenty of time to bring a knife to Mr. Zheng. My parents and sisters, it turns out that you have been lying to me all along. This is not to make you progress You 've suffered during this time, son, as compensation. This villa will be given to you as a gift. How about Alas No, no, no. I 've thought it over From now on, I will strive for it by my own efforts. Buy each of you a big villa Yeah ha ha ha ha ha