I love a great mystery, and I'm fascinated by the greatest perhaps because it's personal. It's about who we are, and I can't help but be curious. The mystery is this: What is the relationship and your conscious experiences, such as your experience or the feeling of velvet? Now, this mystery is not new. In 1868, Thomas Huxley wrote, &quot;How it is that anything so remarkable as the result of irritating nervous tissue is just as unaccountable as the appearance of the genie Now, Huxley knew that brain activity and conscious experiences are correlated, but he didn't know why. To the science of his day, In the years since Huxley, science has learned a lot but the relationship and conscious experiences Why? Why have we made so little progress? Well, some experts think because we lack the necessary We don't expect monkeys to solve and as it happens, we can't expect Well, I disagree. I'm more optimistic. I think we've simply Once we fix it, we just Today, I'd like tell you why it's false, and how to fix it. Let's begin with a question: Do we see reality as it is? I open my eyes and I have an experience that I describe As a result, I come to believe there's a red tomato a meter away. I then close my eyes, and my experience but is it still the case that in reality, I think so, but could I be wrong? Could I be misinterpreting We have misinterpreted We used to think the Earth is flat, Pythagorus discovered that we were wrong. Then we thought that the Earth again because it looks that way. Copernicus and Galileo discovered, Galileo then wondered if we might in other ways. He wrote: &quot;I think that tastes, reside in consciousness. Hence if the living creature were removed, Now, that's a stunning claim. Could Galileo be right? Could we really be misinterpreting What does modern science Well, neuroscientists tell us is engaged in vision. When you simply open your eyes billions of neurons Now, this is a bit surprising, because to the extent that we think of it as like a camera. It just takes a picture Now, there is a part of vision the eye has a lens that focuses where there are 130 million so the eye is like a 130-megapixel camera. But that doesn't explain and trillions of synapses What are these neurons up to? Well, neuroscientists tell us all the shapes, objects, colors, It feels like we're just taking a snapshot but in fact, we're constructing We don't construct We construct what we need in the moment. Now, there are many demonstrations that we construct what we see. I'll just show you two. In this example, you see some red discs but if I just rotate suddenly, you see a 3D cube Now, the screen of course is flat, so the three-dimensional cube must be your construction. In this next example, you see glowing blue bars moving across a field of dots. In fact, no dots move. All I'm doing from frame to frame from blue to black or black to blue. But when I do this quickly, your visual system creates with the sharp edges and the motion. There are many more examples, that you construct what you see. But neuroscientists go further. They say that we reconstruct reality. So, when I have an experience that experience is actually of the properties of a real red tomato that would exist Now, why would neuroscientists we reconstruct? Well, the standard argument given is usually an evolutionary one. Those of our ancestors had a competitive advantage compared and therefore they were more likely We are the offspring of those and so we can be confident that, our perceptions are accurate. You see this in the standard textbooks. One textbook says, for example, &quot;Evolutionarily speaking, vision is useful precisely So the idea is that accurate perceptions They give you a survival advantage. Now, is this correct? Is this the right interpretation Well, let's first look at a couple The Australian jewel beetle is dimpled, glossy and brown. The female is flightless. The male flies, looking, When he finds one, he alights and mates. There's another species in the outback, Homo sapiens. The male of this species that he uses to hunt for cold beer. (Laughter) And when he finds one, he drains it, and sometimes throws the bottle Now, as it happens, these bottles and just the right shade of brown The males swarm all over They lose all interest Classic case of the male (Laughter) (Applause) The species almost went extinct. Australia had to change its bottles (Laughter) Now, the males had successfully perhaps millions of years. It looked like they saw reality Evolution had given them a hack. A female is anything dimpled, the bigger the better. (Laughter) Even when crawling all over the bottle, Now, you might say, beetles, sure, but surely not mammals. Mammals don't rely on tricks. Well, I won't dwell on this, So this raises an important Does natural selection really favor Fortunately, we don't have evolution is a mathematically We can use the equations of evolution We can have various organisms and see which survive and which thrive, which sensory systems are more fit. A key notion in those Consider this steak: What does this steak do Well, for a hungry lion looking to eat, For a well-fed lion looking to mate, And for a rabbit in any state, so fitness does depend but also on the organism, Fitness is not the same thing and it's fitness, that figures centrally So, in my lab, we have run hundreds of thousands with lots of different and organisms that compete Some of the organisms others see just part of the reality, and some see none of the reality, only fitness. Who wins? Well, I hate to break it to you, In almost every simulation, organisms that see none of reality but are just tuned to fitness drive to extinction all the organisms So the bottom line is, evolution or accurate perceptions. Those perceptions of reality go extinct. Now, this is a bit stunning. How can it be that not seeing gives us a survival advantage? That is a bit counterintuitive. But remember the jewel beetle. The jewel beetle survived using simple tricks and hacks. What the equations is that all organisms, including us, We do not see reality as it is. We're shaped with tricks Still, we need some help with our intuitions. How can not perceiving Well, fortunately, we have the desktop interface on your computer. Consider that blue icon Now, the icon is blue and rectangular and in the lower right corner Does that mean that the text file itself rectangular, and in the lower Of course not. Anyone who thought that misinterprets It's not there to show you In fact, it's there to hide that reality. You don't want to know about the diodes and resistors and all If you had to deal with that, or edit your photo. So the idea is that evolution that hides reality and guides Space and time, as you are your desktop. Physical objects are simply icons There's an obvious objection. Hoffman, if you think that train is just an icon of your desktop, why don't you step in front of it? And after you're gone, we'll know that there's more Well, I wouldn't step for the same reason that I wouldn't carelessly drag not because I take the icon literally -- the file is not literally blue but I do take it seriously. I could lose weeks of work. Similarly, evolution has shaped us with perceptual symbols We'd better take them seriously. If you see a snake, don't pick it up. If you see a cliff, don't jump off. They're designed to keep us safe, That does not mean that we That's a logical error. Another objection: There's Physicists have told us for a long time but really it's mostly empty space There's nothing new here. Well, not exactly. It's like saying, I know that is not the reality of the computer, but if I pull out my trusty I see little pixels, and that's the reality of the computer. Well, not really -- you're still Those microscopic particles they're still in the user interface. So I'm saying something far more radical Finally, you might object, look, we all see the train, therefore none of us constructs the train. But remember this example. In this example, we all see a cube, but the screen is flat, so the cube that you see We all see a cube because we all, each one of us, The same is true of the train. We all see a train because and the same is true We're inclined to think that perception The theory of evolution is telling us of our perceptions. Instead, reality is more like a 3D desktop that's designed to hide and guide adaptive behavior. Space as you perceive it is your desktop. Physical objects are just We used to think that the Earth is flat Then we thought that the Earth because it looks that way. We were wrong. We had misinterpreted our perceptions. Now we believe that spacetime and objects are the nature of reality as it is. The theory of evolution is telling us We're misinterpreting the content There's something that exists but it's not spacetime It's as hard for us to let go as it is for the jewel beetle Why? Because we're blind But we have an advantage our science and technology. By peering through the lens of a telescope we discovered that the Earth and by peering through the lens we discovered that spacetime and objects are not the nature of reality. When I have a perceptual experience I am interacting with reality, but that reality is not a red tomato Similarly, when I have an experience I'm interacting with reality, but that reality is not a lion or a steak. And here's the kicker: When I have a perceptual experience I am interacting with reality, but that reality is not a brain or neurons and is nothing like a brain or neurons. And that reality, whatever it is, is the real source of cause and effect in the world -- not brains, not neurons. Brains and neurons They cause none of our and none of our behavior. Brains and neurons are a species-specific What does this mean Well, it opens up new possibilities. For instance, perhaps reality is some vast machine I doubt this, but it's worth exploring. Perhaps reality is some vast, simple and complex, that cause Actually, this isn't as crazy and I'm currently exploring it. But here's the point: Once we let go of our massively intuitive but massively false assumption it opens up new ways to think I bet that reality will end up and unexpected than we've ever imagined. The theory of evolution presents us Dare to recognize that perception it's about having kids. And by the way, even this TED Thank you very much. (Applause) Chris Anderson: If that's So there's so much from this. I mean, first of all, some people at the thought that, I mean, doesn't that to some extent all our ability to think possibly even including Donald Hoffman: Well, this does not What we have is one theory that perception is like reality That theory turns out to be false. Okay, throw that theory away. That doesn't stop us from now postulating about the nature of reality, so it's actually progress to recognize So science continues as normal. CA: So you think it's possible This is cool, but what you're saying can still get you to reason. DH: Yes. Now that's a very, The evolutionary game simulations that I and they do show that our perceptions not to show us reality as it is, but that does not mean the same thing We haven't done these simulations, that there are some selection pressures to be at least in the direction of truth. I mean, if you're like me, We don't get it all right, but at least uniformly away from true math and logic. So I think that we'll find that we have one at a time and see What's true about perception may not CA: I mean, really what you're proposing interpretation of the world: consciousness causes matter, DH: Well, it's slightly Berkeley thought that, he was a deist, nature of reality is God and I don't need to go so it's quite a bit I call this conscious realism. CA: Don, I could literally talk with you Thanks so much for that.