Welcome to our cozy camping adventure with Ted today! This place must feel like home to our beloved viewers and subscribers, as we have been here couple of times I chose this spot today because I wanted to test some special camping gear in a familiar setting. Today, I've packed a bunch of camping gear! It's going to make things really interesting. First things first, we need to make sure our furry friend, Ted, stays hydrated, and then we'll get to work. KingCamp graciously sent us all this incredible camping equipment, perfect for longer stays in the great outdoors. Ted is checking out the tent. Permission to setup the tent is granted! Now, check out this giant tent! It can accommodate up to 12 people. And guess what? I'm going to set it up all by myself. Let's get started! Ted is just chilling and enjoying the whole show. He's such a happy camper! Setting up this tent has been surprisingly easy, especially considering its massive size. Putting up the poles is a piece of cake. They're lightweight, and there's no tension on them at this point. We'll add tension in the next step. Look at the height of this tent! Even I, at 193cm tall, can stand comfortably inside. We've reached the final step of the setup process. Everything is solid and secure now. I love the numerous windows and ventilation in this tent. The fact that two of the windows are transparent instead of mesh is a nice touch. The material used for this tent seems to be of high quality. It's made with 210g TC cotton canvas fabric. You can even open the bottom for extra ventilation and enjoy some lovely views of the surroundings. Alright, time to make the interior of the tent cozy and inviting. And you know what? It's actually quite comfortable. I was worried it might feel odd, but the canvas cover makes it cozy. Yes it's comfy, I was afraid it would feel weird, but because of canvas skin it feels comfy Now, let's set up this big bamboo table. It's perfect for relaxing and taking a break. Nice! It's finally time to unwind and enjoy some downtime. And of course Ted, wants to join in on the relaxation! As the night falls, it's time to create a warm and inviting atmosphere with cozy lighting. The tent is called KingCamp Khan Palace. I think it deserves it's name, certainly feels like a palace ^^ Now, let's set up a comfortable bed. And guess what? It even comes with an inflatable frame! Who knew such things existed? It's like sleeping on a cloud! The sunset today is absolutely breathtaking. It paints the sky with vibrant colors, adding a touch of enchantment to our camping experience. The double mattress is self-inflating, making our sleeping arrangements incredibly convenient. Here's something impressive: you can remove a part of the ground in the middle of the tent and place a stove inside! It's perfect for cooking and staying warm in this chilly Australian winter. I can't wait to get the stove up and running. It's going to make the interior of our tent extra cozy while the winds howl outside. Winter camping at its finest! Let's get that fire crackling and embrace the warmth. It's time to enjoy the toasty ambiance. Now, it's time to prepare a delicious dinner. The tantalizing aroma fills the air, making our mouths water. For tonight's meal, I've brought some fresh salmon. And to complement it, we have a side of veggies and roasted potatoes. It's a feast fit for kings! Mmm, the aroma is irresistible. It smells so good! Our taste buds are in for a treat. Let's dig in! How could I forget... A nice German beer is a must with my meal :) With our tummies full and hearts content, it's time to prepare for a good night's sleep. First, let's set up the inner tent. Of course, I couldn't forget about Ted. He has his own snuggly blanket to keep him warm and cozy throughout the night. I'm absolutely loving my new sleeping bag. It's incredibly comfortable, and its spaciousness makes it feel like a personal haven. Good morning! I hope you enjoyed the mesmerizing star lapse. As the morning light gently illuminates our camp, Ted is still deep in his peaceful slumber. You can hear his gentle breaths, a reminder of the tranquillity that surrounds us. But it's time to wake up and embrace the beauty of this new day. Nature has painted a picturesque scene for us to enjoy. However, Ted seems reluctant to leave the comfort of his bed. I'll let him bask in the morning serenity a little while longer. There's no better time than now to make a steaming cup of coffee and savor the peacefulness of the morning. While the coffee is brewing, I'll create a cozy outdoor spot where we can relax and soak in the breathtaking views that surround us. Setting up this oversized chair is a breeze, and it provides the perfect nook to unwind and appreciate the wonders of nature. Ah, the coffee is ready, and finally, Ted joins me outside. Ted loves lounging on the chair, basking in the warmth of the sun. His contentment is contagious, reminding us to appreciate the simple pleasures. Before we start packing up and returning to reality, a quick nap seems like a wonderful idea. The soothing sounds of nature lull us into a peaceful slumber. With Ted having enjoyed his breakfast, it's time to pack up our camping gear. Thank you, KingCamp, for making our camping experience unforgettable. If any of our viewers are interested, you can find the link to these amazing items in the description below. See you at our next destination!