[Music] This is the Royal Burial Ground at Sutton to rest under this very mound in a vast wooden Its incredible discovery opened a door to before encountered. It would turn on its head Anglo-Saxons. Since its excavation on the eve conserved and reconstructed, all that is except But for the last four years, the Sutton Hoo impossible task of reconstructing it, plank rotted away, leaving only a ghostly imprint in work out the detail, how it was constructed, what and how did it reach its final resting place. row it on rivers, sail it on seas and Time Team [Music] The site at Sutton Hoo sits on a terrace, high on the nearby town of Woodbridge. Only 8 miles maritime history associated with ship building Sir Francis Drake had ships built here in the 16th a team of dedicated professionals, volunteers this ambitious PS1.5 million reconstruction. Yeah, It's the opportunity of a lifetime really, this a lot of forging and quite an honour, actually. the thing for real. The skin of the ship was that it. So there was no wood there, it was literally [Music] Planning and design of the ship took with full scale reconstruction finally starting the first ceremonial nail was hammered into the building a ship until I've joined the first two It isn't simply just science, archaeology; it's By making something, you learn how it's made. Mound One burial, it needs restoring. The build begins with the backbone of the ship. a shallow keel, two extensions or underlouts a stem and stern post, all held together by wooden strakes, or rows of planking, each overlapping the by iron nails and diamond shaped roves, coupling to the fifth strake. Then the lower sections of remaining strakes will be added all the way up pairs of tholes sit. The completion deadline for ticking in the Longshed. The team have constructed something like a ship, albeit a skeleton. So, all those were all lofted full size to these plans and her. Apart from anything else, it now shows us the it's going to look like, which is really exciting. excavated huge sections of the famous cemetery particularly the 1939 Basil Brown discovery of passion of his, and since its conception he's ship's reconstruction. Martin, it's going to be isn't it. Is it worth it? Yes, definitely, and the artefact that's been found in the celebrated Mound the others have and reconstructing it is going to something is going to grab people's attention and will be few years time, but the big adventure is sea, and so then we'll really believe that we But that adventure is still a long way and there's a huge amount of research, with. Here we are, right let's meet some of the of the Longshed, I catch up with the man who's ship a reality, master shipwright, Tim Kirk. able to make it properly? This type of ship has what it had looked like, no-one's rowed a ship comes from the 1939 drawing and the photographs the nail locations from 1939. It's just a and at the end we know that we'll be able to raise This is really the only ship of the period in We know it's in the Northwest European tradition, which is clinker. Clinker is one of the oldest where the hull planks overlap to create a the Sutton Hoo ship, shorter planks are joined strake. The Sutton Hoo ship is the largest Europe. Knowing the approximate date recovered in the burial chamber, and that the team can look either side of the clues. A major source of information from Southern Denmark, dating to around 350AD, and the later Viking Oseberg, ships. Despite the wealth of research, there are to glean from the Sutton Hoo excavation data. We You can't detect what sort of wood it it was they did detect that. When they x-rayed the which is quite a specific grain pattern, we have got that. We do believe it was oak. What to surmise? We don't know any of the details no timber there, and there's no fastening marks. they were trenails, yeah, and they didn't and that's where this model at 1/5th scale and the that's where they're coming in very handy as problem solving exercises. You know you'll problems, and when you've solved all the Back at the start of the project, research discovered in 1939 by Basil Brown Brown's recording of Mound One was exceptional, diaries outlining the finds and how which give us a vivid insight into what was Thursday 11th May, about midday, Jacobs, who and being for the first time engaged in a piece of iron. Afterwards, found to be a stopped the work and carefully explored the rivets in position on what turned out ship. Without Brown's intuition and painstaking have been recorded to allow the team to create leaving little bits of black dust showing where position so the iron rivets which held the planks had been so skillfully excavated by Basil Brown as as a ship rivet, he says &quot;don't move them, just the shape of a boat, we'll take this earth out, brush, brush, until it goes red and then you got thanks to him, we have all the rivets laid out. because you can imagine even now people finding I know, you're right. It was a stroke of genius produce the boat. He produced the whole lines in the middle. Basil Brown's incredible discovery of the 7th century, and all the breathtakingly limelight, would be lifted quickly and taken Not long after this great treasure was revealed, to be hastily covered up again. There was still also been a strong advocate of the Reconstruction British Museum headed by Rupert Bruce Mitford, rivets. Can you remember much about first seeing two things that I remember so clearly. One was the in front of you it's like, wow, you have no idea because of course the sand is yellow, but it was it. It was absolutely blowout stuff, was amazing. was so significant? The recovery of all the rivets because before that one hadn't really thought us because they just look like lumps of iron. But information on them. I cleaned all the in position on a set of cards like this. What did the rivets Well, the great thing about the rivets is that strake overlaps, which is roughly about a thumb on the um on the actual rivet so that will give overlap. It was real detective work wasn't it. It the project, I never thought that that sort details of the ship mostly come from the rivets. give you all the information you need. So When the Science Museum recorded the ship they surveyed them all in, the lines on which the subsequent plans reconstruction of the ship? Oh yes, I'm wildly of an ambition that I've had ever since I in the day. But on the other hand, for me it lot of that information that's going into that and so I'm keeping my fingers crossed as photos and plans created from the archaeology to the characterisation of the ship. Back in are experimenting with prototype rivets on the as a research tool for the team to try out So, these are our final prototype nails keep the ship planks held together. So, we're put the rove on, cut the excess off, and then and that's what secures the ship together. in now. These roves are slightly going to have to have some slight batches. Just another 3,598 to go! Once the to Alex Pole in Dorset to produce the full 4,500 how both the rivets and the roves they attached to the Ship's Company, the Sutton Hoo Company, smiths would have taken large lumps of wrought longer, thinner pieces and then made their we've been supplied with stock that is already but also there's several other processes we need this is scrap wrought iron that's reforged anchor chains, it might be old railings. Ah, so could have started life as a ship elsewhere yeah. It could have been, yes. With instructions rivet for the ship. So you can see, we've got then it's increasing the temperature, so So, how's that one looking? Is that a nice and clean. One of the issues we have with so that's why we need to get that really, little mushroomy cracks. Yeah they're tiny so some of the cracks will come out but that happens irregardless of whether it's just the nature of the material. If we and then bring it out and just tap it on the... perfect! Passable? There you go, a rivet. isn't it? Yeah incredibly soft material. rivet is nice and straight and then you've that just helps drive it through the timber the rove over the end. Here we go Derek, got really nice colour initial on it. That's This is a finished rove, we've had them laser cut. you would slice it up - this is how we made all scratch. And then you would punch a hole through interesting shape. Yeah. Using a laser cutter is is a much more cost effective way to produce, but using traditional techniques. How come they're much more functional? I think a a square would and from the archaeology the roves were all very practical, this is an essential part of so essentially they're making a style choice the Sutton Hoo ship, and I think this is part of prestigious build - it was built for someone of lot more time to produce, more time to fit, and this decorative richness and dating of the burial ship? From the fact that you are an Anglo-Saxon most famous East Anglian king, but he's not the before him and there's very interesting kings into mound one - I mean it's it's a tempting here we have this marvellous, intact ship But actually of course you have to remember mound it was robbed several times probably. If it hadn't we'd have had two competing grand ship burials. been my problem with with giving mound one to and then who's in mound one? There is a moment in that, I would suggest, might be an alternative is fully understood, and that makes me very but it is certainly not done and dusted, it has mysteries. Whether this Warrior King was Raedwald with treasures must have been intended to legendary. It's essential that the team refer as possible. And one of the ways they can do this are you going to use the kind of tools which you first making these boats, or are you going to use to see what it's like using the kind of tools and we did have some excavated tools. now with carpenters and joiners. In other you have hammers, you have spoon bits, things remaking the kind of tools ship. There is certainly a variety some more familiar than others. Well, this straight handle. That's a side axe, right-handed bevel. Now, I don't know if this is modern or one and that one, but this, Richard, you don't they're actually based on a a design scene in it's a finishing axe which is used to get a we are hacking away at to produce a plank or finer finish. And the rule is that the hand tools Saxon times. Yeah, and you've seen the main tools there's one here which is called, it's called a reason that you draw it, you pull it towards you. here it acts like a plane, and these are used to do it, haven't you, you're making something use the authentic tools. Yeah, and it's very for a project such as this. The ship's company project volunteers and over 30 craftsmen and women the world and have been instrumental in getting aeronautical engineers, we've got nuclear power different skills that people have brought to the techniques to build the ship, very few ship but that was on a ballistic submarine so we would in that same place. The scale of it is quite wooden boats I've worked on. So my official Anglo-Saxon word for woodworker or 'treowwyrhta'. and timber framing rather than a boat builder. this is basically a big piece of furniture to getting hold of it is one of the major occupations just any wood, the team need large, freshly felled lots of them. In my previous career if I wanted they'd have everything that we wanted. Here, we had to go to the field, and that was another give you a tree from my farm. I was staggered at very particular trees, they want the very best rare now. And to my surprise and delight, other donate a tree&quot;. That log that they're working on road. Do you think the original shipwrights saw a this ship is going to be, or do you think they'd looking for the trees, which would be appropriate, actually drawn plans didn't come in till about the done from the shipwright's experience and their There was a tree almost in the shape of a question on my experience that that could be the shape and when we got it back and we put a plywood perfectly. And it's Tim's expert eye that has [Music] It took over 18 months to find That's a lot quicker than some I've isn't it yeah? Our first job was to find a keel, and that was brilliantly done by the we knew that at 27 metres long there wasn't going way it needs to curve and so it was worked The keel forms the flat base at the centre the keel are the underlouts which extend it and post are then attached to the underlouts and rise then secure each of the sections together. It's the holes where the tree nails secure the correctly to fit them. Research based on needed the head on the inside of the keel to the more likely this tree nail whereas if you put it the other way around, you've from the original archaeology revealed that the be pulled easily onto land without damage. place. A couple of months on from Christmas. The volunteers are busy ship. Despite the cold, there's also festive back in 1993, the Sae Wylfing is a half-length Sutton Hoo ship. For the past few months, she's trials, introducing volunteers to a rather company's project manager and oversees all the research in the Longshed. I oversee over 140 this whole sense of community and people pulling is what is absolutely unique. One of her main ship would have moved on water. She started to put and Time Team's Helen Geek is first in line. Is it age to become one of these rowers because it just my early 40s so I haven't done it my whole life. rowing. We need people to be able to follow the the right time. The weight of the oars is just got this design right yet. There's an argument Through the testing phase we will have to keep the inboard and the outboard measurements are, is the oar, the point at which the ore will go in We've got an extremely exciting month ahead. the first excavations there in over 30 years. Trust for a special dig investigating Gardenfield, test pitting in the landscape, shedding light the month, Time Team will present a range of two live shows right here on YouTube. What's additional dig watch coverage, daily 360-cam live 3D models, and much more. You really don't want this channel and consider joining us over on After plenty of Christmas revelry, the new year caulking on the stem underlout section. The chisels there's always small tool marks and things seals the joint. And you can use lots of different shavings, sort of plant fibre material, all sorts was found in the Nydam ship, so which is a mixture come to put the final backbone sections together. bit of a delicate operation 'cause it's quite a careful we don't squash anyone. When we get it in we can take away the big sort of gallow-shaped 'cause it looks a bit like a big set of gallows. extends its full 88ft length, and from above the the Long Shed to see the latest developments. At how the strakes will be added to the backbone. underlout. This is the top of the underlout and that the edges of the top of the underlout, they the planks will come up. Oh, so this is almost the first plank. It makes a tiny little stub. Yes, can get your rivet in through there, out through out through there with your rope and hammer nail rivet angle to remain parallel to the plank This means that it can lay flat against the rivet. But Tim has some disastrous news. There's and it's looking like a major setback. So what's very central part of it, the pith. We found when we've actually run into the pith of the tree- actually see daylight through there so there is a cut a year now this tree, and it's still drying got... we've got to take a choice of either to modern way, or to replace it. So it's a piece 750 mm diameter, something like that, the log. of the underlout has revealed that, so you know, Is there any chance you could just sneak in a new is because the planks overlap A: we'd have to get to get this piece out. We'd probably have to take a major job then, so it's much more effective to do you have to make a decision, how long have you quick as that, but it's imminent. This is terrible underlout section and if it has to be replaced It takes an agonising two weeks for the team to to do? I think it's worth saying that it wasn't trying to make our minds up and many of us swung repair, shall we replace. The first thing to do and actually look how deep it went and what angle gone from the bottom of the the trough. Up here to the other side of the the the plank land there boat builder in me says trust the materials, ourselves the 400 hours and the grief of looking as a Saxon shipwright, I have to think of it in I would say yeah that reasoning is right, and yeah we? And the only real way to solve the issue is to find a tree of a larger diameter. After all the Laurie takes it quite hard. Gutting really, that much better decision to do it now than later of the Longshed, storage space is limited and wood of log here, it was in obviously one long length able to move it and also get it into the Longshed. Tim takes the midship model templates into the for the frames, planking, and replace the 40 a lot of forests staring at trees. That's a nice one year on since the first tree nail went in. At ancient oaks matched Tim's specifications for Tim's come to measure up. I think that's one of wood. We're looking at pieces 4 and 5 and 6 metres it in two. Do it in two fours. Two fours. And part of the ship and it eases it then for you to- just a little bit in places, but I think we can tree. So yes please! Two 4 metre lengths. Two 4 I just can't get over really what a beautiful it. This end the bark, the fissures in the bark there should be no twist in it whatsoever. As to dive off just a little bit down there. to have to be careful that it cleaves Sadly one of the trees shows just how easy it is This is a really clear example of how you can't the inside of it. This looks beautiful all the fell it you can see all of this area here is and it's really soft and you've got these it's absolute rubbish. So if it goes 2.5m up a good long length of timber for planking. So marking some of the larger tree branches for without much success. There's nowhere near enough timber from. So we'll have to go and look for probably more difficult than finding the planking frames is going to be the most difficult thing year in woodland like this looking for new trees straight trunks but for curved bends. [Music] in the Woodland Trust's Hainault Forest, and work Finally, it's ready for the team to test We'll need to actually physically lift the molds because we've got to allow for shrinkage. If you because it'll be too long then. It's got to go we've got the the holes drilled then we can fit been quite a job to to make that, the volunteers to turn the curved, round log into this piece. [Music] [Music] We just need to go towards the front of the boat [Music] As the underlout slides, in everyone's tight up that end, so I think we need to take all come up. So does that look straight now? Yeah, the replacement underlout settles into place. already happened. As it's thinner, it's actually when you put the straight edge on there you can there's what, a quarter of an inch there? Yeah how it dries, or we could put a baton and force this to go down to match that. But it's so much deeper in the middle isn't it? business of the shrinkage really intrigues me, know that it's all going to shrink at different shrinkage factors into different parts on it? We know that the plans are slightly so as it shrinks, that should bring it down to Oxford University came in in order to measure the individual images of the ship and you see the data into the computer. In the end it produces a can measure almost a millimeter accuracy. So we accurate we were, how much it's shrunk, and then see how much it swells up. And I'm not sure that's position of the underlout finalised, the freshly holes. Still alright? Yeah keep going, yeah. That's gone really well. We had a little bit the stern post far enough out of the way once rearranged it all, knocked the stern post back and then second time it worked out really got to let it season a bit, we can't really don't think we'll be nailing onto that until Now the replacement underlout is secure, focus needs to be created. And in the Longshed, nothing paths to recover those and any big bits like Over in another part of the Longshed, Jacq has modelled on the Nydam ship. She's seeing how they which are based on a photograph of an imprint at given the weight of it, is sitting on this sheer wave, the bit where you would actually pivot it. not where I would expect to which would be here. diameter where it crosses the gunnel. So if we we think that will sit in the back of this wave oars. We still have quite a lot of research to two or three prototype oars, is to actually get feels like. [Music] Detailed study of the 1939 company to recreate features like the tholes for the two women who took them have been given the the extraordinary coincidence of these two Miss Wagstaff, who were looking for material to Miss Lack took several hundred photographs with she put scales in, and all the details of the 1939, are down to Lack and Wagstaff. I mean the information on the reconstruction comes 1960s was designed to re-evaluate and answer as You'd had this massive dig in the late 30s... though you were doing the whole dig again. Well questions about the ship that hadn't been answered answered by excavation. Did it have a rounded have a sail, and various other questions about necessarily to preserve it, it was to answer round or maybe had been answered wrongly. Yes, excavation and some questions were answered and Always will. Although it seems pretty clear that some debate that it may also have had a sail. The is a very, very important question and one that's itself didn't produce any oars, so no nobody found the trench. So there's no doubt that it was rowed, that it sailed. But you are going to sail her, a mast? Well, we are. It's always a balance authenticity means that you're starting from going to something you don't know, otherwise you this boat sailed? Yes, it is likely. Why is it of Britain in the Iron Age and Roman period there everywhere except in the North Sea which is where were no sailing boats in the North Sea until the And Martin had already had experience sailing on the replica Viking Oseberg ship in Norway. a research question as you always do. Our question so if it did sail, could it tack. If it could of cargo in the right direction. If it couldn't, important question I think. We did our rowing and up this ship took off like a leaf being blown to keep pulling to get it up and then we got the baff baff baff, it's like aquaplaning. So a very we could tack and had one of two goes at it, and not a big one, the ship tipped over like that and flowed out again, but of course underneath they making us lower and lower in the water which happened, another attempt to tack, the whole boat and it was like a lorry going into a sand trap, on the side by that time and some people I'll stay on the side you know, this wood it's was... to the bottom, lots of ropes curling around It's early morning at the beginning of December way to Sutton Hoo from the Blickling Estate. I trailer and it didn't like it, but I got it on it's this one for here. This one. And the one they'll eventually be made into planks by the old and so they're beginning to go over their best Yeah. This will be some of the biggest trees any like this yet. No. The hydraulics make it now we've just got to load the other Next day, things are getting mildly festive Longshed. So this is the lower half of the to the first stages of the planking, that's the most difficult because obviously we've about 3 tonnes. Then we split it into quarters because the pieces are more manageable in size. on the ship each week next year. So there's, in The midship's model has been an invaluable to construct some of the main components of the two different sets of lines that has enabled the bevel, and widths of the planking. This is our to use this to take the dimensions to translate multiply everything by five, take the correct to transfer it to the ship. The 1939 excavation suggested that these two narrow planks were here do with getting the required twist in the ends of here to close to vertical here - it's about a 70deg is actually very difficult to do. It seems that This has put the digital drawing which the team now that we will build the full size ship to opportunity to experiment with that. [Music] Christmas, Tim's keen to pick up the pace on the making a replacement underlout. Laurie and Tim the first rows of planking that sit opposite each planking had to start higher up the stem rather because of the gap left by the split underlout. and it's been clamped in place for about it's actually set in the twist that we want, and bevel we've got on the bottom edge of it so This has got be one of the oldest tools this draw knife, it's got 1918 stamped on it. we asked him for some beeswax, and he gave we wanted. But we've given that to the ship experiments which is really exciting. While the up a festive Christmas concoction using some animal fat, 100g of Stockholm tar, and about Christmas hat. Is that just for something for get an interesting glazed turkey. You would, [Music] Make sure he's on That's no good. Rove's split on this side. Whoa the head off that nail. No. What, just from me everything that could go wrong did go wrong. We which was a very big surprise and we'll need to be very interesting making sure we get a of tension in the nails and I think we're going we will have to go back again and just check when she goes in the water. It's always a bit fixed on the boat, and feel like we're getting planking ready to nail up, but alongside that can begin to make the next group of 10 planks to be a very busy period. But we've started It's Spring 2023, four years since have been hard at work in the way from the bleak days surrounding the underway. You can begin to see here how the ship three strakes on the starboard side, we're ready that's a third of the planking. So you can see how that that really shows the artistry of the ship. wood. The medullary rays, these lighter shaded the radially-cleaved nature of the timber. So you and it really is beautiful. The Longshed's also Parachute Engineer Regiment. It's a real bonus to the guys come down as they're available. We're in the ship. Won't be for another 3 or 4 months rough out the frames we know at least that we've some fit, strong, young men rather than all those has come to start hollowing out the inside of the this yesterday and at the edges it's down to hollow out the inside of the underlout now, and get stuck and the sequence won't work, so we so that we can continue planking with the other bow. With work speeding up, project manager We're pretty close to rivet 2000 going in. now they've gone in we're in a position to email three more going on, the next one to go on will side. This is a unique identifier, so we'll know tree, as it was cleaved, it came from. If there's we can go back to our record and we don't think reconstructions. Three months on and The trees felled in Autumn are finally come to help. No that's coming off Watch your head then 'cause uh I'm going in. [Music] Well done guys. This whole platform moved then. With wood for planking secure for the next few would best suit the oars. The ash oars that we quite whippy, and that's not good for an means that the cross-section that we was too slender. So what we're doing is of the oars and using a soft wood, which to see what happens really. After many many strake is finally going on. This is one of cause you're not only fitting it into a rebate, main backbone of the boat and that'll just bridge [Music] Right, this is our first visit of their hair for a while. Look at these. Wonder how many planks they're going to I can still smell it from here - [Music] It's been a while since we were here. A quite a bit of the planking on, particularly got one, two, three, four, this is five, that's when we can start putting the frames in, started to make. Last time I think you saw some cleaving those logs and now we've made some ship and they are now ready to go when we've got look beautiful don't they? They do. From the at very regular intervals and it just so happens So they put one in, move a hand, that sort of element in it as well as just being practical? year period, they're all beautifully in line but they all line up. So what lies ahead in the next begin to go in. It gives stiffness to the ship, finish the framing. That's what is believed to troublesome piece of wood has its uses. What have the original underlout. It's now a display piece many hours do you reckon you lost? Oh we lost have hurt. Well it's gone now, we've got other time. The 6 months delay and issues in obtaining launch back much further to Spring 2026. It does to go up those steps 'cause I'd love to see the from the top of the ship, we can see that this Oh that is so stunning isn't it? It is indeed, breathe life into this magnificent treasure, they'll attempt to build the internal sections progress the water trials to find the right oars How much does this log weigh? About 7 tonnes. thing is that the boat, when it's finished, just goes to show how wet this log is and also how Shut up! Try that one Tony, that one's 7 pounds. weren't you? That's the way to do it. But every quarter of an hour or so you suddenly and then nothing more happens. Don't Step back, Tony, please. Okay. Can't have [Music] Did you get that? You weren't expecting that were you? An incredible ship and an we'll keep coming back here until its conclusion. will we be able to get it down this slipway? And [Music] Join Time Team on Patreon to masterclasses, and behind-the-scenes insights.