How to spot autism in high masking someone is successfully masking they do not does. It hides the visible signs. If you want look Beyond The Mask. We're essentially looking but isn't. And in this video, I'll share some though, if someone trusts you enough, is they're hidden inner world please validate that something as vulnerable as I'm autistic and that moment completely invalidated by opposition Part of this video is sponsored by Betterhelp below to claim their special offer of 10% own unmasking journey, make sure you stick around of where to from here. Hi, everyone. Paul Micallef videos sharing the human side of autism so make So how to spot autism in high-masking autistic about it, a mask is like a facade or an outward where if you're looking from the right angle it if you start to look a little bit more closely, from a different perspective, the illusion expect. So in a similar way, a mask implies of autistic masking, very often, the mask implies the neurotypical population' and what is actually is quite different from that. So in that way, the should be on the inside that is not entirely true. very good at masking to the point that you can the slightest clue that there might be more going key distinction - If you want to start seeing important to first look beyond the mask because it does crack from time to time, and it does slip. life in general, sometimes, these are the kinds a different side of the person than you would and The Mask means that it is what is underneath impression or first appearance. In fact it's So, here's what to look for: We're essentially the mask covering up? What was it smoothing over impression of a simple outward appearance reality is rough and complex so these gaps and might be something that I can do sometimes but is talking at the moment. I can talk. I probably may assume that I can fairly easily talk all a certain amount of energy and my brain is in can't string two words together to save my life. So, the outward appearance, at first glance seems to is much more complex. Another example of a gap may find reading very difficult. I've avoided it partially that's because I avoided the kinds A lot I did things like science and maths and text and I have to read it with my eyes, then that my computer to read it to me and if I can't copy my text-to-speech software then suddenly that due to a hidden gap in my skill set. So what are types of gaps or inconsistencies. It may be social It may be inconsistent capacity for executive skill set distribution or sensory sensitivities social for example. What might look like to who has very high energy and is extremely social. complete alone time and goes home and crashes be the friend who you actually have a really close texts or answer your calls for months at a time where you left off as if nothing has changed. Gaps asking questions that you kind of think should be Maybe you say meet me at eight o'clock this Friday and they say &quot;okay, just checking is it 8 AM or 8 were going out maybe after work on a Friday maybe show or something like that and that's the kind of of questions gaps in knowledge or understanding easy to assume a level of background knowledge or there or at least may not be as solid as you might Sharp organized on the ball and other times, and center. It's common for everyone to have highs easily visible for autistic people in extended everyday tasks become a challenge. It's easy to right now then, that's always the case but in inability to function in certain areas or periods bit like how I explained I can talk easily most words together is just too difficult. In a similar area and really gifted in one area, it's easy in other areas as well. If you see me solving a my shoelaces. Whereas, the autistic skill set are some things we are really good at and some working with autistic people, I always make sure Does doing it this way work for you or do we a physical disability like impairment in then I can see just as well as anyone else and very different result. This can often be seen things like: planning and organization and memory Like that I had a manager at work once pull me after, he said I was basically like an entirely new we'd change the particular way we were working. understand something and make a decision I need to out so that I can understand how everything kind or some travel or something like that I need to see the timelines and see how everything connects my own way, then everything works very well and if my ability to plan and organize and get through of people use technology to help with executive me what's on my schedule today so I don't need I don't need to worry about forgetting things but it's like taking away a person's glasses or on those things to function and without them, And that's kind of the thing right I mean a have perfect vision they're not hiding the to see properly and as a society we accept that and have that coping strategy and there's no mask in the first place I don't want you to focus I want to show you what I'm really good at so I over so that you can't see them so that they're different but wouldn't it be nice if I didn't I could just let those gaps be common knowledge. and idiosyncrasies and share the way that I need if there was no social stigma attached to that. Can Uh, well, I'm not actually but the point is that it see what I have to do behind the scenes shouldn't autistic and you can't really see how because just trust that there are gaps that you can't than disclosing something as vulnerable as I've working behind the scenes only to have that moment being believed in fact it's kind of ironic that self that the legitimacy is questioned because all the end there are lots of signs if you know what that the person is not the mask and it's what's And if you're willing to be open and look maybe open the door to a level of connection and shared remember that by definition, successful high- can be really tough. Someone is trying to be the optical illusion that the mask was creating eyes a little bit of time to adjust to see what But I cannot over-emphasize how important it is quite make sense to you yet when we unmask or validate that experience it's often new territory only just got a autism diagnosis later in life, a serious question that takes some time to explore people who can validate that experience and walk So, if this is you and you're going through your of where you might like to go from here. Number one in their video comments or read the experiences of alone. Number two is to check out some of my other off the mask long-term masking can be incredibly that regard can be really helpful . Number three you might like to check out our online social you can find us on Facebook and finally if you're lot that often comes along with that. So, I'd highly if you haven't already these days there are lots sponsored by Betterhelp online counselling so haven't already. They make things really easy to on your personal preferences so I hope you found perspective on masking. You may like to check the inside.com. I also offer one-on-one online you're interested in that. Otherwise, thanks again