The horn of departure sounds. The iron-blooded soldiers and the working people are so glorious! How do you hoe? Where are you hoeing? What are you hoeing? Where have you and I ever done this kind of work? I have never touched a hoe since I was a child. Go and carry water. Go fetch water , okay , okay , I really can't do this job, you know. What are these signs used for? I don't know what these signboards are? Number one, number two, number three, number four , and the ones I just saw are all the ones we just saw when we encountered emergencies during simulation training. Just look for them at the number you need to assemble in Beijing. These brands, Junlong, know why they treat you a few Are you assigned here? Why did you fail in the assessment ? Listen to Squad Leader Kang, you were pretty good during the training. How come you failed during the assessment? There is something wrong with your mental quality . Don't think it's a waste of your youth. Feed chickens, beat pigs, and stand guard. Monitor your squad leader Kang Captain Gao and Geng Yu, how do you think they are very capable? They all came from here. I tell you that Third Platoon is a place to cultivate your body and mind. Only when you calm down can you do what you want to do. You guys are right. You're too impetuous . Let's go. Slow down. Slow down. Don't step on the vegetables. What is this? Slow down. Slow down. I'm exhausted. Where can I put it? Put it here. Put it on this shoulder. I can't do it. You said you pick up a bucket of water. A bucket of water has become half a bucket of water. Okay, okay . You do it. Hurry up and look at me like this. Oh, it's coming little by little. Isn't it over? It's over. Go away. You said you can do something? Ah, you, I just said that this job is not suitable for me. I am hopeless this time. Zheng Shuai is hopeless . Congratulations, Zheng Shuai. Your hands are naked and stained with blood now. Come on, hurry up. You can't be careful. It's not you, you. Can't you just be gentle? Why are you using so much force? This is my job. If you really can't do it, I told you, how about this? I'll find a place to run away with. I'll run with you . What are you talking about? You 're not mentally ill, are you? Do you really think there can be so many good-natured women in this world for you to run away from? On the way, he waited for the robbers to ask him to kidnap and then waited It's so unrealistic to expect you to rescue you. Brother, look at where you are going in this wilderness. Besides, even if you run out , no decent woman will rescue you again. When the time comes, the military court will be waiting for you, Zheng. Handsome , you know, if you think about this again Okay, go by yourself, don't bring your buddy, okay, okay, okay, okay, then tell me what I'm going to do. Otherwise, it's like this. Otherwise, you can apply for a post. I heard that it's an easy life, and I'm lucky to be on guard. Forget it. I'm still old. Let's hoe the ground honestly. Then don't waste so many words and start working. Okay, work, work. It's still interesting this time. Go, go, tell me what's on your mind . I'll get you a pair of rubber shoes and borrow them from Yao Pai. Okay, okay. As long as you can be right My brothers have been in the army for two years. If we go back and contract some vegetable fields or orchards, we will still stand guard tomorrow. Go to sleep quickly. I don't know how Lao Bai and the others are doing now. Do they stand guard every day? Don't worry. Hey , Lao Bai is now a member of the reserve team of the special operations team. His life is so smooth. Who can be as miserable as the two of us? Why do we end up like this? Don't lament. No matter how hard the days are, he can still survive. When the time comes, our brothers will be a good couple again. Handsome, if you have this idea, it means you have made progress. This is a good thing. Look again. Huang Junlong falls asleep when he comes back every day. He opens his eyes and goes straight to the guard post. He is very serious. I really regard standing guard as a career. Sometimes I have to take a longer view. Compared with this pain, it is nothing. Besides, we came with a mission and insisted on putting this for our military fan club . Let's get over the present days and we will become famous when we look back. Talk to your dad about integrating resources. We are also on Nasdaq in the United States. We will be listed on the stock market and so on. From now on, we will be the first in the Chinese military fan club. No. Go to bed quickly. Go to bed early for your dream. Yao Pai reported that Yao Pai's vegetable plot has been sorted out . The results are good. Not bad. Do you know what the cucumber seedlings look like? Do you know how to repair the vegetable stems ? You eat well. Okay , then you three will go hunt pigweed with me tomorrow. What is pigweed? Pigweed is the grass that pigs eat. Forget it, you guys. Eat it . Eat this and don't leave anything behind. Then I won't let you eat anything. I'm hungry . The eggs are rationed, right ? Yes, the more you eat, the more you get. You are quite skilled. Huang Junlong, you know all this stuff. Then what else do you not know? Junlong, you have to teach us step by step, right? The three of us What about the Stooges? You have to stand up to Zhuge Liang, right? Are you right? Can you two do this? How do you do this? Bending down, lowering your head, grabbing grass with your left hand, holding a knife in your right hand, look at your strength. Be careful with your hands. When have you ever done this before? Yes, it's so wet. How do you do it? You said that I am here to serve as a soldier and cut this thing . I won't punish you. Give it to me. If I had known it, I would have gone to raise pigs. Why am I still doing this ? Did you three go to eat grass or cut grass? Why did you come back after you went ? Come on, are you tired? It's okay. I'm very tired. Come and see if my Yao Pai is okay. You worked hard. I'll take it easy. Yao Pai's results are good today. I'll give you extra food and kill pigweed in the evening . Are you tired? You guys will gradually get used to the life of the third platoon. I know, pick mushrooms for me. Thank you. Sifu, I'll tell you what's going to make you happy . Let's apply to stand guard in the future . It's much more fun than farming. I'll tell you about the scenery up there. Very good I feel like I'm great, stay on top, okay , okay, don't take advantage of me, be good , and worry about the feelings of vulnerable groups like us when you're happy . Aren't you sharing my happiness with you? I'm also sharing my happiness with you. What are you going to do? Oh, hurry up and see. This is the way to go crazy. We have been working in the vegetable field for a whole day without taking a breath. Now we come back and beat us up. It just so happens that our platoon leader is practicing triathlon, right? After all, he is a platoon leader, so he needs to take some medicine. He is a powerful comrade-in-arms. The police camp is so peaceful that people from all over the world are sleeping in the same arms. Heilongjiang is sleeping in the lower bunk. Hainan Island is united and we go to war. Combat power. You can say that this is a hobby. How do you love Yao Platoon? Why are we drying mushrooms? Why are we drying mushrooms? Yao Pai. It's a weird thing. It's really weird. Let's go. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. Step up and turn left. Look to the right and look forward to tell two things. The exercise was too slow in the morning. After a while, the classes will be sorted out. After disbanding, turn right. Turn right . Turn right. Run and walk. Zheng Shuai is out of line. How does it feel to train? It must be easy. After all, it was the soldiers brought by Squad Leader Kang who were so skinny that the camel was bigger than the horse. Ah, learn how to brag with Kang Zhen. I'll add new training courses for you. Okay, Yao Pai is no problem. It's a horse. You must be a good horse. It's a BMW with sweat and blood . Fill up your BMW. Don't give me a break when the time comes . Let's go. Is Zheng Shuai tired? Why don't you take a break ? Where can Yao Pai follow? Why do you need to take a break? Ah, okay, let's go , come on , aren't you a BMW? This road is too tiring. To relax your mood , let me tell you a story. In the past, there was a wolf here who gave birth to a little wolf cub. After the baby was born, I don't know why. This wolf doesn't eat meat but only eats vegetarian food. This old she-wolf is so worried. What's going on? She's worried every day . One day, he suddenly saw the little wolf chasing a rabbit. The old female wolf was so happy that my son finally wanted to eat meat. He chased and chased. Finally, the wolf cub caught the little rabbit, pinched his neck and said, &quot;Hurry up and get the carrot.&quot; Hand it over to me. Are you going to be a vegetarian? Are you going to eat meat? Come on, come on. You are the vegetarian wolf. Let's go, I said, Captain Yao , you are going to exhaust me to death. Yao, dear, Yao, please slow down. I'm exhausted . Hurry up, no, no, no, Yao . Let's take a break. I'm not tired. Why give me a break? Tired, I asked you to blow. Hurry up. I said, Yao Pai, our BMW is out of gas and needs to be refueled. If we keep going like this, it will break down. Hurry up, the sentinels on the mountain are still waiting for the handover. Yao Pai, what 's your own water? I've finished drinking it earlier , shouldn't I let you fill it up ? You can still run back in a BMW like this. Thank you, Yao Pai. Please give me some left. Okay? Is the leftover okay? Why don't you give me a break? You always take a break for a long time . I just came up and haven't sat on my butt yet. You sit down, isn't it? Yao Platoon, Yao Platoon is exhausted. I'm exhausted. What's going on? Do you hear what's going on? It's clear. OK , you stand guard today. I'm going down . Yao Platoon will withdraw my cover first. He's also known to be a talker. You 're in good spirits. Let's go . I'm exhausted. What does Zheng Shuai and Yao Pai look like when they stand up ? Sifu, hurry up, hurry up . I'm dying of thirst. Give me something to drink. It's not you. Did it come from that volcano or from Mars? Zheng Shuai and Yao Pai are running very fast. How do you feel? I think this time on guard duty is particularly meaningful. Not only is it a great exercise in physical strength and willpower, I think such an opportunity should be Try to make sure that the various terrains on the way back and forth are not Just because the leg strength and cardiopulmonary function have been improved , the memory has also been improved. Moreover, when a person is standing guard, the observation and judgment skills have all been improved. I feel like I have been diligent and thought so much. Then what are you looking at? Huang Junlong Don't you want to go too? OK, Yao Pai will wait for me in the evening. Why don't you come and argue with me about all the good things you can do if you go together ? Then why don't you go together in the evening? Forget it. Yao Pai should save this opportunity for other comrades. Isn't this bad? Come to realize it slowly, right? Tell me first, how are you? Are you tired? It's okay. In fact, our forest used to be very lively, and all the birds were late. Are there wolves up here ? Do you know why it's so quiet now? It's because you, monitor Kang, came here to pay a visit and sang a song here. I'll teach you a song. It's a sunny morning. From now on, it's quiet. You found out. Without the cultivation of the two of us, these vegetables would gradually thrive. What a joke. Well, you laugh and play while working. Are you sick? I 'll tell you later that you're not sick. You 're fine. You're secretly happy. This is our watchtower. Please familiarize yourself with the environment. Junlong's mind is thinking about other things. My footwork is messy, my boxing skills are messy, and my rhythm is wrong. The more you practice, the more tired you become . You can tell that, but I can't fool you these two times. Platoon leader, pay attention to the rhythm. What are you watching? I'll show you something fun later . What fun stuff is coming ? Yao platoon. Yao platoon is cleaning. Okay, let's go back to work first, so we can take it to see Zaiwu Xiaoguan, the waste platoon leader this time. This is I got a lot of money from selling scraps last time. Thank you, platoon leader. You don't need this little money. Count them one by one. You'd better send these mushrooms to my old address. Here's the postage. Thank you, Platoon Commander. You're living a really good life these days. You said that Yao Pai is really better than an afterthought. He still does business and sells out scraps/sells mushrooms. I don't understand. You said that our Yao Pai can make this life so miserable. I heard from He has ten dollars on his body from head to toe. Really, he is saving money for his wife. No, no, no, we can talk to him later about this . Otherwise, we will go out and make people laugh. Isn't it too embarrassing ? Don't you two have to work? Are you tired of chatting here ? Do you think this is still the new training team, or is the deputy squad leader still here teaching people? The National Armed Police has nothing to do with the deputy squad leader. The Chinese Armed Police and the Chinese Armed Police talk about leaders behind their backs. It's not a good thing . Are you still in the mood? I'm wrong to tell the truth. You haven't changed your self-righteousness. You're fine. Classmate Huang Junlong. I know you're modest and prudent. We have so many things to do in this car, so hurry up and help us do it. You are not with him, what are you talking about? You can do it, forget it . You are really sick . Come on, come on. The mushrooms in the mountains are my love. Sell them for scrap and put the money in my pocket. They love to eat braised pork. I love to eat green vegetables. RMB can Save a piece of money. Mushrooms in the mountains are my favorite. Sell scraps and put the money in my pocket. Yao Paiyi Get up, the mushrooms in the mountains are my favorite, they are my favorite, the money from selling scraps is put in my pocket, put in my pocket, others love to eat braised pork, I love to eat green vegetables, I love to eat green vegetables, the RMB can save one piece, one piece, one piece, this song is compiled It's pretty good. That's okay . Who composed Zheng Shuai's lyrics? My music is so talented. I listen to all the meaning. Come out, I listen, I listen, I hear it. This bastard, this brat is eating. Why are these two going ? What? Zheng Shuai and Yu Sifu just went to the kitchen to help the cook. They said they wanted to add another dish for us. They helped the cook add one. Don't waste food . It doesn't matter. They brought their own ingredients. Let 's eat. Here comes the hard food. Come on . Come on. Come and be careful of Yao Pai, dear comrades, I want to thank you for your help to me these past few months. Especially Yao Pai was deeply inspired by him . Today I made a specialty dish, what dish, what dish. It's called Wild Vegetable and Mushroom Soup. I didn't catch it. You two city soldiers can also make wild vegetable and mushroom soup and Yao Pai. You can try it. Come on, take it easy. There are quite a lot of mushrooms here, not bad, not bad/pretty good , comrades, come together, come and try some, be careful. Come by yourselves, you're welcome. How about Yao Pai? It tastes good. Look down on you two, Yao Pai, this wild vegetable. The taste of the mushroom soup is really good. Give it a thumbs up. In fact, we don't know how to do it . It's Shanlitou. Someone taught us the gods taught by the people in the mountains. Don't tell me it's a vegetarian wolf. The vegetarian wolf is still eating . It's even happier than before . I saw it in the mountains two days ago. A bunch of mushrooms and a few plates of radishes. He likes to eat vegetarian dishes. It's not because he likes to eat vegetarian food. He does it to save meat . Rou Yao Pai, listen to me, this vegetarian wolf said that he likes a little white wolf on the west mountain. That little white wolf, he hunts every day for her and saves all the prey. He is reluctant to touch it at all. What happened when he went to find the little white wolf? Don't let me guess . Come on, what happened ? The white wolf thought he didn't have any oily smell on his body and ran away with the big bad wolf on the north mountain. Yao Pai, you know what this story is about, right? There is a profound philosophical truth . The soul of Fire Wind Phoenix raises the dream of a strong army. A man's love for a daughter and my heart bravely embark on a journey.