See clearly that whatever we are experiencing we your own experience -- whatever we are aware of, or We are aware of the sound of this voice, our thoughts and feelings. We are aware be present. Just let your imagination Whatever you encounter -- you are aware of it. See that being aware is the constant that we are aware of is continuously sensations, sights, sounds, tastes always appearing and disappearing. How long last? Not very long. But the experience of The thought that each of us is having now is not or two hours ago, or two days ago, or two body that each of us is aware of now is not the two months ago. But the experience of being two minutes ago, two days ago, two months Being aware is the only element of experience that Everything else we have ever experienced has sensation, every perception -- these are vanishing How long does a sensation in the body None of these are lasting but the experience of being aware -- remains constant, unchanging. What is the common name we give 'I'. That's what I refers to -- the simple Each of us says, 'I am aware of my thoughts', 'I am aware of the sight of this room', 'I am may be pleasant or unpleasant. 'I' is the experience. It is the unchanging element that Normally, we are so fascinated by what we fascinated by our thoughts and our feelings by the that we are having --that the simple experience The experience of being aware is not the same way that we are aware Nevertheless, each one of us now has the of you: 'Are you aware now?' I hope you would all it is your experience -- I am aware now. What attention towards the experience of being to ask you to direct your attention towards the that thought your attention. It's very easy. We If I were to suggest directing your at the soles of your feet. Again, we all If I were to ask you and direct we all know where to direct our attention. And now, if I were to ask you the experience of being aware, We have already, I hope, admitted to everybody answered 'yes' to the question, is because it is our experience -- being when we try to direct our attention towards What I'm really suggesting is, try to turn already established the experience of being sensations and perceptions. So when I say, I don't mean towards your thoughts or You are aware of all of those. Instead of directing your attention to what you experience of being aware. What happens The more we try to do that, the more we our attention towards some kind of object -- We can't, as it were, turn our attention direction towards that which is aware of. It room. To begin with, what we're shining and then someone says to us to shine the light The light bulb is the only thing we cannot the source of the light beam. The light beam only shine on something that is apparently other Likewise, we can give our attention to to what is being spoken here. We can give our give our attention to the sights in the room or the experience of being aware or awareness itself. towards the object, but awareness is too close So how are we going to find out about the experience of being We cannot direct our attention towards it, we In fact, it is not the directing of our attention Instead of trying to direct your attention or awareness itself, let your attention It is not a directing of the attention The attention is only needed to know perceptions etc -- but to know our So just let your attention fall Allow it to rest in its source. Its source is Have you ever had an experience that is more The experience of being aware is not I were to ask you now the question, check your experience and say yes. It's in How far did you have to go, how hard did you The experience of being aware is not buried don't need to practice a technique for hours our essential nature of simply being aware. It is throughout all experiences, however wonderful or completely independent of the condition Ask yourself the question, 'is any experience ever at a distance See that the experience of being aware feelings, sensations and perceptions. Ask yourself the question, 'can the experience of being aware ever Obviously our thoughts and feelings can be world are constantly moving and changing. But that ever moving and changing? Is the awareness known any different from the awareness with Is it not the same awareness in each knows the full range of your thoughts. And and most unpleasant feelings. Are they not all See that the experience of being aware, intimately pervades all experience but is never conditioned by any particular experience. No Our essential being is never always in the same pristine it has never been aggrandised or When you are lost on the streets of It is never absent. But it may seem to be temporarily obscured. Why now, when we become fascinated by our the experience of being aware seems be obscured? Due to the exclusive focus of our attention on the At any moment in your experience, the moment to any moment in our experience, 'am I aware?' Pause. The answer is always yes. absolutely no difference whatsoever. And we never we never have to travel anywhere to find that yes. of being aware -- is always available as the If we are being aware of being aware, practicing the highest form It is the only form of meditation that doesn't require the directing of our It is also the essence of what is called practice of the presence of God -- Ramana Maharshi called it, 'sinking the mind the heart of awareness. The heart of our being, our essential nature which shines And which shines in our feelings as the in our relationships as love. And infiltrates And as awareness rests in its own being, in very few cases suddenly, but in most cases it or the experience of 'being aware' doesn't That is the great discovery -- the knowing share the limits or the destiny Being knowingly that with which we know our with which we are aware of, or conscious of our what we are aware of. That recognition is what is or awakening. I don't like any of those terms in fact, just a simple recognition of the Sometimes this self recognition is accompanied body. And those colourful experiences are But this self-recognition can also take even register it to begin with. Or if the mind of course my essential being is always the same, same throughout all experience, it is always at didn't I notice that before?' It can be that quiet except that your life is not quite as before we previously thought, felt, acted and related limited self made of thoughts and feelings. We of thoughts and feelings thoughts and feelings not been coming and going all my life all my life, awareness, have just remained always the same. The boy, is the same 'I' that is present now knowing it's never been sick, it has no gender, has no the first place so it's not going to die --it was us from the tyranny of the fictional self with It's not that all those old habits of the they take some time to be washed out of the Their foundation was simply a belief --that that I was born, I'm growing old, I get sick removed leaving our essential nature as it inherently peaceful, intimately one with There isn't a separate being for each thought 'I' or 'I am', when each of us we go to the same experience not a similar what the experience of love is --the recognition same being. That's what love is. Isn't that deeply? Don't we feel that we are one with that separates us from that person dissolves? Love is the recognition of our shared being. Thank you