Balance, something that Captain Ame It's worth mentioning Scores of passengers put their lives having no other choice Indeed, at 90 meters long the wooden monster that he captains However, given the appalling state the river is still the simplest way Such a heavy load means each maneuver The journey to the capital for Vandu, the helmsman. They must make it. The 228 tree trunks that make up the raft Losing even one of them is not an option, so the sailors constantly check that hold their raft together. Even more importantly, if there is too much space passengers risk falling into a hole There are around 50 passengers. Most of them are merchants or traders, all hoping to make a better living especially by selling bugs that have become impossible There'll be a lot of ups and downs The Democratic Republic of the Congo so getting from one town To go and see their family or do business, thousands of people must squeeze Every year On the roads, all trucks fight hard and there's no place for tiredness For the passengers, having to walk Whether on land or on water, the Congolese people have developed Even when they're swept away by the waves, the bravery of these people The huge 100-meter-long raft looks small The descent towards Kinshasa, the capital isn't going too badly. In ten days, they've traveled more than 700 kilometers The last 700 kilometers won't be so easy, but for now, Bathing in the water from the river Congo as it's extremely polluted by toxic waste and the swirls in this swimming pool This young, reckless sailor Accidents are frequent onboard the raft, and feet are usually the first to suffer from the many bits of metal Even when you have very little, you can make do The alcohol level is over 50 percent. It's perfect except The sailor will get an anti-tetanus jab Until then, he goes back to his post. To travel on the river, the Congolese people There are whalers, that take on water everywhere, but are perhaps the most comfortable especially when you compare them They look like floating shanty towns, the biggest of which can pack without any water or toilets. According to Vandu, the state is not entirely responsible The state has to cope with widespread corruption and it has also struggled to pick itself by two armed conflicts, as well as having to combat hindering the economy in certain regions. In the Congo, unemployment affects 40 percent with many people surviving Everyone tries to sell what they can, like Gloria. This grandmother is traveling alone Life isn't easy for her. The parents of the little girl left To pay off her debts Gloria has started or as it's familiarly referred to, Fufu. A good discount for the grandmother as the other passengers To avoid passengers having to travel the captain of the raft but there aren't enough for everyone. When new traders with several bags of goods, Jean-Paul makes a bit of space but the other traders don't appreciate it. Quickly, the lack of space Though the evening Vandu and the captain have noticed They have just enough time Simply the strength of the wind combined with the waves could cause the raft Gloria, the grandmother who is traveling Jean-Paul, the merchant, The sailors tighten all the cables but the raft starts to come apart. Some logs become detached. However, the problems keep coming. Water flows into the boats Two hours later, The captain is disheartened. His raft isn't really supposed Waking up the next morning and the following day could be even worse. The Congolese people are like hostages. Their modes of transport and their days are often very difficult. For the most part, the community fights each day In town, but in the countryside, sometimes you have to risk your life At its mouth, the Congo River merges This mixture of the two waters the Mangrove. This labyrinth of islands and canals crustaceans, shellfish and some very brave women. 25 year old Jan has been clam fishing It's the only job she's found Around 100 of these women just their courage and rising water levels have made their task a lot more difficult. However, diving four meters deep, six hours a day all week According to the villagers, the locals here have been fishing which explains the thousands that cover the riverbanks now. Their houses look like they're built This is because the divers don't sell them but rather cook them here These ones just came off the stove. The excessive farming to cause them to disappear. To avoid this catastrophe, the villagers must alternate How else can they do it The country's economy is fragile and, by extension, Even when rates are at their highest, this silver mine of which three-quarters live The truck plows on The driver and his passengers cannot miss so they keep going as fast as they can, that is to say, It's a race against the clock to try and to be clear, if they miss it, Baju, the driver, maneuvers but he can't fight It seems unlikely but miraculously, the road is smoother. It was a close call, but luckily for them, For the past 30 years, between the two banks It takes 25 minutes for the old boat Before continuing their journey, the man check as their journey is going to shake it A ten-hour journey. Baju is very, very optimistic, but he has a good reason to be. He has invested in something in a more relaxed way to Kimpese. The smallest accident as roughly 20 passengers are crammed Comfort is limited, but it's still cheaper According to Baju, the state of the roads that is eating away at the country. Each time they reach an obstacle the passengers are the ones who suffer. Without his crew, The journey has only just begun, but it's already become a marathon Seeing him running Jean Some of the younger passengers are already At this rate, their average speed especially since Bajwa The assistant gives the thumbs-up Luckily, the tire was repairable and even more luckily, This good fortune won't be enough They've only traveled 20 kilometers Baju is going to drive for part but nobody truly believes that. Jean, the oldest person on the truck, Their hardship is just beginning. On the River Congo, the raft passengers are still in shock The raft has taken a hit and some trunks now float The sailors are trying to bring the wood Everyone's feet are in the water, but that's not Vandu and the captain are now sailing Here, sand banks are an invisible trap. The sailor celebrated a little too soon. The river's current gets stronger, and the old motor can't fight A 100-meter raft can't be steered The captain finds himself stuck The maneuver is still extremely tricky, especially when it comes The helm must be used carefully The raft comes away from the bank The huge vessel sets off The miracle fish He'll be enjoyed later on. During their 30 day journey, the sailors and passengers Every day, alongside the river come Without these riverside grocers, Gloria wouldn't be able They also sell knickknacks, and sometimes quite frightening animals. While everyone's having a laugh, they fail to notice the catastrophe Several sand banks are looming Vandu and the captain round these unavoidable traps. However, if they fail, It's no good. The raft isn't budging. Vandu gets into the water. Some of the passengers cheer Their singing After a five-hour battle, To get back on track, the man tests the depth After a few more anxious hours, Vandu and the captain are once again back Despite the time they've lost, they're hoping to arrive but nature still has a few surprises left On the road, He promised his customers that he'd knock out 100 kilometers but that's not really what's happened. Jean, the eldest passenger They've practically not slept overnight. Jean has a bad feeling EUR15, which is a fortune The average Congolese salary To make matters worse, the slightest obstacle means This part of the road The assistants have been working Without them, Baju wouldn't have even traveled Their work is intense, They're just happy to have a job. A thankless job, Sometimes the assistants and passengers to going this slow. Germs are not. They don't really have a choice. Their journey is far from over. They still have 70 kilometers to travel Kinshasa is just a few kilometers away, but the weather The last few hours for Vandu and the captain. Despite this final calamity, Sir Jean-Paul, Luckily, the wind is nowhere near as bad As a sunny spell breaks out, Vandu is relieved that the journey is ending He's not the only one. Gloria, the grandmother is going to be able and pay off her debts. She and all the small traders hope that they haven't made As for the sailors, they'll spend another three days for the travelers on the trucks, In two days, He'll spend another 48 hours As for the passengers, like Jean. The Congolese people are resilient. Finding work, and even traveling everything requires Their lives are a battle equal only