- [Narrator 1] The shark waits for each sense to be triggered, hearing, smell, sight, The stingray has no other (dramatic music) - [Narrator 2] Shunning the limelight, a reef stonefish conceals A master of disguise, it's easy to see how this predator got its name. (light music) It's mottled colors blend It will even tolerate to further aid concealment. (dramatic music) By burying itself in the sandy seabed, it becomes almost invisible. (dramatic music) Even its large, bulbous eyes are indistinguishable This nocturnal predator small fish, and cephalopods (dramatic music) The slightest movement (dramatic music) The stonefish's strike is explosive. (dramatic music) Its wide gape rapidly (dramatic music) It's use of surprise attack but the stonefish is most It's the most venomous fish in the world. Concealed within its dorsal Fed by venom glands, these spines form a lethal defensive array. A toxin unique to stonefish attacks the nervous and and can prove fatal to would-be predators. In humans, stonefish envenomation and life-threatening restrictions to blood flow and breathing. Hunters beware. More often than not, these silent assassins (dramatic music) (seagulls squawking) - [Narrator 3] In the 20th century, whales in the Sea of Okhotsk were hunted nearly to extinction. Now, whaling has ended here and the large mammals Humpback whales are the but other species also venture Orcas live in family pods of 10 or more, led by a dominant female. The whales are constantly on the move. That cloud is what Just hatched in a nearby inlet, the herring are too young to reproduce. Two years will pass before they seek their traditional spawning (dramatic music) Orcas are graceful, intelligent hunters. The orca pod drives the herring together. Then, the largest member killing or stunning dozens (water splashing) (light music) All that remains is to reap the harvest. (dramatic music) The orcas gorge while they can. The herring will soon disperse and weeks may pass before the (whales singing) Like orcas, humpback but with different tactics. First, some humpbacks dive under the swarm to drive it toward the surface. Others encircle the swarm Then they swim through the Grooves in the mouth filter out water, leaving hundreds of fish Two species, two tactics, same success. - [Narrator 4] Say hello to the sperm whale. We think of them as gentle giants, but these submarines-sized mammals are actually deadly hunters. Many bear the scars of violent 10 times the size of a human. Since they stalk their prey witnessing an actual kill is impossible. So in New Bedford, Massachusetts, Bob Rocha has been piecing together clues to how sperm whale hunt from their bones. - We have this fantastic animal here. I would say this is a especially to be able to get about 14 and a half meters long. You don't get that big - [Narrator 4] Approaching 60 tons, an adult sperm whale weighs Its head is the size of a minibus, and has a jaw packed with 10-inch teeth, some as wide as a man's arm, ideal for keeping hold colossal squid, weighing The length of a school and a razor-sharp beak, colossal squid are one of the most formidable And as there is no natural light a mile beneath the surface, sperm whale are hunting them blind. So how do they find a Bob Rocha believes the secret lies inside their enormous head. - The obvious thing, of course, is this giant rectangular block of a head, which the whale would - [Narrator 4] So just like bats, sperm whales track down First, they force air through two muscular clappers As the two muscles slap These clicks travel out of the head, through the water, and When the echo returns to the whale, it carries information about (sonar pulses) - Their ability to use their echolocation to find their food and get right up to it and swallow it whole is just so precise. - It's roughly 204 decibels, peak to peak. If you were right next to it, - [Narrator 4] In fact, it's the loudest sound These booming sound pulses in the dark of the deep to detect colossal squid The squid's basic hearing system is unable to detect the whale's leaving a totally unaware This allows the sperm whale (dramatic music) - [Narrator 5] This hairy She's an expectant mother, and has more at stake than (dramatic music) She tucks behind the coral and waits. (dramatic music) (music suddenly increases) Her mouth balloons to 12 creating a vacuum to suck in the prey. The entire process takes (dramatic music) far too quick for the prey to react. (dramatic music) (dramatic music intensifies) It's the fastest bite (light music) - [Narrator 2] Amidst one puny pugilist stands The peacock mantis shrimp. Otherworldly in appearance, there's more to this odd It's a formidable predator. It's bizarre appearance is the result of 80 million years of evolution. With an appendage for every occasion, the peacock mantis shrimp of the marine world. (light music) Five pairs of legs for feeding, three pairs of legs for walking, two pairs of antenna for Two eye stalks bearing of compound eyes and even But of its 34 appendages, it's those club shaped limbs at the fore that make it a true killer. At just six inches, he His hunting strategy Understandable, when prey species include the well armed and well armed, not to mention well-camouflaged. (dramatic music) But camouflage is of little use when hunted by a peacock mantis shrimp. His eyes are amongst the most While human eyes have just three color photo receptors, he has 12. With the capacity to see far beyond the human visible spectrum, very little escapes his attention. (dramatic music) While the crab's defenses are formidable, this seasoned brawler He's more than a little territorial and knows exactly who's Unaware of the mantis shrimp's presence, the crab strays close, too close. (dramatic music) With the velocity of a 22 caliber bullet, the mantis shrimp's strike is the fastest in the animal kingdom. The assault is so fast that friction makes the surrounding water boil. (dramatic music) The devastating punch and delivers a quick death. - [Narrator 1] The tagged scanning the sea floor The stingray may be but it cannot hide from the incredible hunting senses of the The shark waits for each hearing, smell, sight, The stingray has no other (dramatic music) (dramatic music continues) The shark uses its hammer to the sea floor and but the ray fights back. (dramatic music) Finally, the hammerhead to immobilize its prey, but a large bull shark is also on the hunt. (dramatic music) The hammerhead returns (dramatic music) (water splashing)