Go is a two-player board game in which players compete to control more territory than the opponent. That was a really short version, In front of me I have a Go set which is a board with a grid of 19 vertical And in these bowls we have black and white pieces that are called stones. All the stones are identical by the way. So there are no stones with special abilities. You wouldn't have to remember how They're all exactly the same. In Go black plays first which might seem a little unusual. So the player who has black will take one stone and place it on any vacant line in the section of the board. That's right, the stones are placed not in the squares but on line intersections. And since the board is empty at the start of the game, Black has 361 options of the first move. Let's say black plays here. Remember that once you place the stone here, it's going to stay here for the rest of the game because the stones never move unless it is captured but we'll get to that very soon. Now it's white's turn. Let's say white picks another spot in a different corner. Black's turn again. And now white and so on. So what are we trying to achieve with these moves? The stones are just used as building material to make a fence, a border around our territory. And if we keep moving forward, then the same game that we just started with these 4 moves might look like this at the end. There are many stones on the board but it's not the stones that matter. It's the empty spaces that they surround. This is now territory that belongs to black and white. In this game black has two large territories on the right and left and white has two large areas at the top and at the bottom. The purpose of the game is to get more territory than your opponent. Even a little more, even 1 point more is enough to win the game. So Go is not a game of destruction where you need to crush and defeat your opponent, but rather a game of negotiation, much like in politics. On the surface this game is like a dispute between two landowners who try to divide a plot of land between themselves. In more modern terms this game is like a competition between two companies for the same market, much like the one that existed between or in the same way you can imagine that there are two companies, Black Incorporated and White Limited, that are competing for the same market on the board. Nobody's aiming for world domination and extermination, just trying to control a slightly larger part of the market. But I understand that as you're looking at the board right now, visually it might be a lot to take in. Let's scale it down a little. This is another finished game except on a smaller board. This one is only 9x9. But the size of the board makes it a lot easier to see who's winning and count the score. Let's count the territory. So black has: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 points and white has: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 points. So black wins by three points here. This 9*9 board is smaller but the principles of the game are still exactly the same, except you could play the whole game in only a few minutes. So to make it more comfortable we're going to stay on this board for the remain of the course. And later when you're okay with this board you can also move on to 13*13 which is another practice board, slightly bigger, and after that one you can finally graduate to 19*19 which is the board that you saw at the beginning of the video. So stones are placed one after another until the whole board is divided into sections of territory. All of that sounds awfully simple, doesn't it? But where is the deep complexity of an ancient game? Things get a lot more exciting when stones get captured. And this is one last rule of the game that I have to show you. Take a look at this. These 5 white stones look fully surrounded. And now if you're black, take a guess how would you capture them? You've probably noticed that even though the stones are completely surrounded, there's still one point left unoccupied. And if black takes it, he plays here, the stones get captured immediately, just like this. Why did that happen? The thing is that stones are not just some inanimate objects. They are like living beings that have their own breathing space, like hit points in RPG games. They are the adjacent intersections right next to the stone. And they're called liberties. This stone in the middle has 4 of them. But if we put a stone here on the edge because it's the edge the stone only has 3 liberties. And this one in the corner only two. Now let's say it's white's turn and white plays a stone right next to ours, here, thus reducing one of our liberties. The black stone is starting to feel worse. And if black doesn't do anything and white plays another stone here with the next move, then our stone gets even weaker. If black doesn't do anything, another liberty is gone and the black stone is starting to suffocate. And if we give white a chance to play here one more time, white can take the final liberty and this captures the black stone. Each captured stone gives you 1 point at the end of the game, when you start counting territory. But it doesn't have to be so sad. Black doesn't have to give up the stone. Now that we are one step away from being captured, we can help the stone. And this situation when one of your stones or group of stones has only one liberty left is called atari. By the way, atari is one of the Japanese terms in the game of Go. There are dozens if not hundreds of them in Go. They might seem unnecessarily challenging at first but actually very often they're more concise and efficient compared to explaining them with English words for example. And because these terms are widely used, they can serve as a very nice pickaxe to break the language barrier if you're playing with someone who doesn't speak your language and you want to discuss the game afterwards. And if the word atari sounds like the name that's because Nolan Bushnell, the founder of the company, was actually an avid Go player himself. And when he was choosing the name for the company, he wanted to pick one of the Japanese Go terms and he decided to choose Atari. Now let's get back to helping the stone. And if you're black here and you want to save it, how would you do it? I hope nobody suggested running away with a stone like this because just as you remember stones don't really move anywhere in the game of Go. The stone has to stay here. And the only way to save it is to play another stone right next to it. And now it's no longer one lonely stone. Now it's a group of two stones. And if here the stone had only one liberty left, now these are 2 stones with 3 liberties, all of their liberties are now shared. Remember that stones are connected into groups only along the lines. So if for example we play a stone here, there's no line connecting these stones, so these are two separate groups: two stones and one stone separately. And only if we play it here or here, these stones are now connected into a large group of three. The more stones you have connected along the lines like this, the more liberties they will have and the more difficult it will be for your opponent to capture them. However even if you have a very large group of, let's say, 35 stones, your opponent can still surround them, remove all of their liberties and capture them. Don't you worry, though. There's a way to make your stones invincible and immune to capturing. And I'll show you how to do it in the next lesson. And as always go smash that &quot;Like&quot; button And I'll see you guys in the next video.