Welcome to another Mathologer video A Forget about Euler's formula and company, just about every conceivable way, at Mathologer video about THE theorem chase down the all-time greatest, theorem, just for you. At the same time, crazy and divine Pythagorean facts off video I'll tell you a little bit about a appeared. Before we get started with the Pythagoras's theorem is a misnomer. The named after Pythagoras was not actually known to the ancient before Pythagoras was born. Also, although it's often claimed that Pythagoras was the first to have produced a rigorous there actually does not seem to exist any plenty of maths historians doubt it. Now influential mathematical cult, the attributing all results originating with likely that because of this practice the theorem. Anyway it's too late now, theorem Pythagoras's theorem or simply looking at a couple of gorgeous proofs one of the simplest, most beautiful and right-angled triangle with short sides A the four triangles in a square which at the square inside. you partially cover this big blue square sides of length, what? Well, the length is triangle which is C and so the area of Let's shift one of the triangles. Now how see here. Well, the triangle covers just as much blue as before and so the new blue area Let's do some more shifting. How large is squared, right? Now comes the punchline. still C squared. However, it's also A plus B squared equals C squared. pretty convincing, but it's definitely argument to count as a bulletproof details. For example, in this diagram here looking shapes are really squares no Not hard but not a step we can afford to that's as true in maths as it is in life. complete proof looks like, let me show most famous maths textbook ever written, ancient Greek mathematician Euclid. here. It just looked very neat, didn't it, off-putting isn't it? And actually also this diagram and the text. On the other hand, classic proof (2,000 years and still if Euclid had an animation, it's been here's mine :) So Euclid proves Pythagoras have the same area, and the same for the plus blue on top which is A squared plus at the bottom which is C squared. Here's orange square is what you get when you white copy of our right-angled triangle. does not change the area, right? The same do it. Now the orange parallelogram is after being covered by the little red arrow stays unchanged again and the same pretty much the same diagram as before squared again and it is now also clear started with are equal in size to these millennia, hundreds of different proofs and there's even a book that lists 371 than most people know:) That's the book. proofs memorised. (Marty) Really? (Burkard) Really 20. at my favourites. Here's our A-B-C triangle again. triangle has sides AC, BC and CC. We now triangle by B. Okay let's do it. Right, and that one by A, there we go. Now let's have these two sides are the same. And so are three triangles fit together into a plus B squared equals C squared. lots and lots of other proofs that are you. For example, you should check out the and the one discovered by American find out more there's no need to dig up have a look at the nicely Illustrated absolutely amazing cut-the-knot website. Oh, just in case the current American own proof please someone let me know proofs that I've shown you so far are know that this will sound very strange theorem is a proof of a very very Pythagoras theorem as just one of I'm saying is that proving the general special cases is easier than proving of these special cases. Super weird, theorem? Well Pythagoras says that if we square in the same way to the sides of a squares together equal the larger square. theorem, that the same is true if we For example, the areas of the little semicircles add exactly to the area of the large one, the areas of the little the large one, and so on. That the super theorem is true To see this, let's just focus on the semicircles and the squares. It's clear that every one of the semicircles occupies square, in fact a quick pi calculation, that every one of the semicircles has corresponding square. But since the two 0.39 times the smaller squares adds to and that's the same as saying that the large semicircle. So Pythagoras for But, using exactly the same for squares implies Pythagoras for all again using exactly the same argument, implies Pythagoras for all other shapes. misunderstanding what I mean by this, let prove from scratch that Pythagoras is proof implies immediately that How amazing is that. question: Is there one best, super-terrific perfect shape for which it's easiest to see that Pythagoras is true, this. Wait for it... DONE, that's the easiest think I've gone crazy note that you're not just two, okay, add to the larger one, AND that they have the same angles, AND that they red triangle like this. Really done. using the simplest imaginable shape, the bloody amazing, as we say Down Under :) connoisseurs to savor. Okay before we get little puzzle for you. You go to a pizza and large pizzas. It turns out that one exactly the same as one large pizza. Now, the better deal, large pizza by itself? Leave your answer let me know which of the proofs of Now Pythagoras is great but it only about other triangles. Well there's also Pythagoras hidden in school mathematics let's have another look at Euclid's areas of the same colour in this diagram So in this diagram any two rectangles of little trigonometry the proof is quite see that the two green rectangles really sides A,B, C and the angle opposite C gamma. diagram here that the two green cos gamma, yet another exercise And so the green rectangles have equal of the top two squares A squared plus B minus two times A B cos gamma equals C Of course most of you will have encountered rule. degrees cos is zero and the cosine rule comes to the cosine rule the next best and 120 degrees. 120 is -1/2. For example, for 60 particularly nice form and for 120 degrees pretty as the 90 degree Pythagoras, and in which the hexagon's 120 degree angles here's another little puzzle for you. One existence of Pythagorean triples. A, B, C such that A squared plus B squared squared plus 4 squared equals 5 squared. Pythagoras. Can you find non-trivial satisfy these other two Pythagorean Pythagoras has been around for thousands knowing and there's nothing new to be fascinating Pythagorean facts are much beautiful stuff that hardly anybody recently discovered a proof of (Marty) Really? (Burkard) Yeah, actually that was new to me too cut-the-knot site in the list there's actually, what we did there amounts to a to finish off here's just a little Pythagorean flavored theorems that will this respect de Gua's theorem. So A but if this height here is D then 1 over over D squared. Hands up, who knew that? (Marty) My hand was down. (Burkard) it a try. Now theorem 2. This one works connections here X, Y, Z, then X equal to A squared plus B squared plus C these new green triangles here has the Not easy to prove but feel free to give started with an A-B-C right-angled sides of the green triangles like this. squared and 5 times the yellow square squares. Pretty amazing :) Why 5? Why, anything nice? squares here the sum of the two small square. How unexpected and how pretty is relationships to be discovered if we finish off let me tell you about higher-dimensional counterparts of Pythagoras's theorem. The first counterpart many of restate Pythagoras in terms of and B and diagonal C, well A squared plus B squared equals C squared. This version of counterpart in 3d where we replace the this. Now if its sides are A, B, C and its squared plus C squared equals D squared. a 4d box with sides A, B, C, D and diagonal E squared plus D squared equals E squared. you know that there is a second totally Pythagoras generalizes to all higher and the 3d version was only discovered Jean-Paul de Gua de Malves. To motivate it we interpret this right angle triangle as what we get when we cut a corner of a the corner of our box we get this. cut forming the base of this pyramid and right-angled triangles. Now if A, B and C the areas of the right angled triangles de Gua's theorem says that A squared squared. I absolutely love this one. I work for squared areas instead of also in all higher dimensions where volumes. I often assign the easy proof of maybe you'd like to try your hand at lots of homework for you today. Again stunning Pythagorean facts. If you check out some of the links in the cut-the-knot list of proofs which also contains Marty my new proof of Pythagoras. And except I also wanted to tell you about a been published by the American years Marty I wrote a weekly maths here in Australia and this book is a with an Australian theme. The book has color, looks great and so if you like the the time between videos and to find out general have a look at www.qedcat.com that's Marty's and my website for all things mathematical, especially our mathematical clip collection, our other books, articles