Some of this may still be classified, I don't know. But I know the SR-71 and the TR2 have both been declassified, so I'm treading on thin ice giving you stuff about area 51, but. the food in jail is pretty good, so I don't care. I finished school in West Virginia, High School, went back out seeking my fortune in California. My stepfather wanted me to come back out there. And I went out there and was instantly hired at Lockheed Aircraft in Burbank, CA. I was there for just under seven years. During that tenure at Lockheed, I was able to rub shoulders with some really wonderful people. I was accepted into the apprenticeship program about a year and a half after I hired on for the research and development mechanic apprenticeship program Out of 680 applicants, they chose 30. And these people were selected by virtue of their knowledge and talent and their and their desire to be in the aviation industry. Fortunately, I was one. I was selected as one of the research and development Mechanic Apprentice candidates and that apprenticeship lasted just under six years. During that tenure, I worked in every phase of the construction of aircraft, final assembly, making parts, going from department to department. becoming intimately involved I also worked in some areas at Lockheed that were intimately involved in the support of the black aircraft namely the SR-71, the TR2 and those particular aircraft departments I was very very Infatuated with being able to work on such aircraft. they were truly magic carpets and was later on the last three years I was accepted. There were three of us that actually passed the security test. Kelly Johnson wanted new blood. In the black area. And so I had the pleasure and honor of meeting Kelly Johnson. The three of us were accepted after we passed a strenuous. Security investigation. We were given a small luncheon. We were all three given a cup, a plus 3 cup. It shows a picture of SR71 and it says 3 plus. The airplane actually went 4.4 but anyway, and we were given an SR71 pin and those were given to us in the cup by Clarence Johnson. He came to the luncheon, he smoked a cigarette, he was a heavy smoker, and he talked to us for a few minutes and gave us a pep rally as to. We were the first. And the leading edge of the young blood of the new people coming into Area 51 welcomed us and excused himself because he was a very, very busy man. Never saw him again But I did. I sat next to Tony LeVier. Tony LeViere had a running application for me, for over 4 years. I wanted to fly for Tony LeVier. We weren't really well accepted because the people that worked in area 51 were old timers and they weren't up for nonsense and Youngblood. And stuff like that. So we really had a lot of pressure on us. I went to home every evening scared to death that the FBI was going to be knocking on my door, hauling me away because we were threatened with our lives that if we opened our mouth about anything we saw, did, or involved in it would, it would result in severe punishment. And I took that very seriously. I usually spent about a week up there. They would bring me home for the weekends. We would brief prior to getting on the airplane. We would brief prior to after getting off the airplane and we would debrief before we left. They watched us like Hawks because we were young blood and and we were treading on hallowed territory. I used to wake up and get there early in the morning. We'd leave Burbank at three in the morning and go to area 51. They closed the windows on the airplane so they thought we didn't know where we were going and where we were and we would land there just about sun up and I would get off the aircraft and look down the runway and at those beautiful mountains. The Papoose Mountains and Think that I am the luckiest guy in the world to be here because everything there was magic. It really was. And it was still in a time period where not only your infatuation took over, but the fact of how lucky you were to be able to rub shoulders with the people. We lived in Quonset huts out there in some of the uppity guys lived in what we call the VOQ. They kept us in little Quonset huts where we lived and did our thing, and we had the walk of the place, except we couldn't go where we didn't have the proper numbers and letters. Our badge, by virtue of having to be able to work back there. My first assignment was on the chase airplane, the F-104. I really didn't get to touch any of the blackbirds for a while, and the only reason I got back there was because of a wonderful gentleman named His name slips me now but I've Frank Torres, he I was a crew chief with him on the Cheyenne helicopter during its development and so forth. And I also crewed the Lockheed 286 demo helicopter that Lockheed had built. It was the first helicopter to do acrobatics and so forth. I worked between two places, area 51 and a place they called the Fort. The Fort was down in Burbank where they did high security testing of some of the. For instance, the spike actuators were tested in this place. They also tested the ejection seats. They shot them up in the air and caught them in a net. And also there was a project that that was later on with the SR-71s. They developed cracks up under the wings in some pretty critical areas. And each airplane, the the cracks were indigenous. they weren't in the same places, so they designed a box that would go on the outside of the outside of the lower belly. and they had a hard point. They bolted this box on it had cameras it was water cooled, it had a coolant system in it. And I helped in the design creation of the box with a guy named George Buck Buchanan, who is a thermodynamicist at Lockheed and I was very intimately involved for about six months. In the design, conception and construction of that box and its final implementation and being fitted onto aircraft, aircraft were brought over from Beale. To area 51. The box was put on. Darryl Greenamyer would fly the aircraft and get him hot and they would photograph these cracks up under the wings and then they would design indigenous field repair kits for each airplane. And then it was brought up. They were put on at Lockheed. The Air Force did very little maintenance on those airplanes. Anytime you are are gifted enough that you qualify, and I don't say that. As a braggart, but it requires certain talents to be able to be accepted to work in those areas. But mostly it's your intelligence level. And do you contribute? You were a team player at Area 51 and at Lockheed you were not an individual. If you were not a team player, you didn't participate. Especially in the black area. They still have that creed. A-Team player tends to go with security. So yes, it was high security. It was a real pleasure. But it was. It had its. I had a lot of fear put in me about talking when I shouldn't, and it took me many, many years to get over that. There were friends, very intimate friends of mine, up until recently, did not know where I worked. I never told people. Where did it come from? Let's follow this transport plane and find out. This is the desert of Western Nevada, already well known for its nuclear tests by the Atomic Energy Commission here at Yucca Flats. Adjoining this AEC test site is an active aerial gunnery range. Early in 1955, by Presidential order, 60 square miles of this prohibited area were set aside for a special purpose. There's a narrow air corridor to reach this spot on the map. Air Charts order closed to all personnel and aircraft except on orders from the chief of Staff, US Air Force. The name of this isolated spot in Nevada is Watertown, and its very isolation is of the greatest importance. The specialists that come off this transport are hand-picked. They are checked every time they arrive at Watertown. Overall, security in this area is the highest yet to be maintained in this country, even higher than that of the Manhattan Project. Selection of Watertown was dictated by several unique considerations. The area is isolated from prying eyes by the AEC range, with lethal reminders of past atomic explosions. Aec Guards maintain regular patrols. Supplies destined for Watertown Channel into the area through regular AEC routes. Watertown Radio and Teletype communications. The Angel is referred to as an article. Her pilots are called drivers. The geographical spot of Groom Lake is called home plate. The Angel was designed to do a single job, obtained the largest amount of reconnaissance information ever collected on any single flight. For the first time in jet history, it is possible to inspect 400 square miles with a single cartographic photograph. For the first time in jet history, sensitive electronic equipment is being carried to heights where it can search for any number of radio, TV or radar signals and record this information for detailed analysis. There are already 12 alternate equipment loads for the U2. Development of the Angel and the information gathering equipment that it carries is the result of the most experienced judgment applied at every critical point. A select group of capable, dedicated men in industry and government, working with trust and cooperation, completed this specific project at the utmost speed. The idea for the Angel itself was born when Lockheed started a design study on the maximum altitude possible from a jet airframe for reconnaissance purposes. The Angel, then called the CL282, took sufficient form to be presented as a proposal. Members of the Killian Committee, a portion of the scientific advisory group, defined the technical feasibility and urgency of the program. The optical and photographic concepts were envisioned by Doctor James Baker and Doctor Edwin H Land. The original CL282 proposal was then modified to produce even more spectacular results. On December 9th, 1954, the GO ahead was given and Lockheed's chief engineer Kelly Johnson called together his tiny 26 man Special Projects Engineering group here with the problems they faced. To design, build an airplane and fly it in eight months. An airplane that would cruise well above 70,000 feet. One that would travel almost as far as a B52 and remain in the air for 10 hours. A plane that would be completely reliable with forced landings out of the question. A plane that would be the world's most stable aircraft for high altitude photography. A plane that would be flexible in concept to carry at least 12 different equipment loads and have no one penalized the others in weight. A plane that would weigh only 1 1/2 times the weight of the power plant. Weight was the critical factor in the whole project. Designers said they would trade their collective grandmothers for PS10 of empty weight. Pounds in fact, were called grandmothers. But weight could not be saved at the expense of reliability. A real engineering challenge met with proven know how and a basic design so simple that it was almost revolutionary. The Angel is simplicity itself. All controlled surfaces are cable operated. The tail section of the fuselage attaches with only three bolts. The inside of the 80 foot wing is just four big fuel tanks. The interior of the fuselage is plain and uncluttered. The cockpit canopy, stressed to handle a pressure differential of PS5 per square inch, is operated by hand. The pant leg engine intake ducts presented a problem. At altitude near perfect Ram, Air distribution was needed to keep the engine running. The final intake on the Angel gives us good pressure distribution, as would be found in a power plant wind tunnel. A unique gust relieving feature was designed into the wing of the Angel to reduce tail loads and wing bending in turbulence. The flaps tilt 4 degrees upward and the ailerons tilt 10 degrees to completely change the airfoil characteristics. During development of the Angel Kelly, Johnson met with each member of the Special Projects Group at 7:00 every morning. Any problems occurring on the previous day were discussed and corrective decisions were made immediately. Subcontracting was virtually impossible. 87% of the prototype Angel was fabricated in one building in Burbank. Components were run through the company's big presses at night and on Sundays, then hidden from day shift workers. The C&amp;J Manufacturing Company for Clarence Johnson was formed in an unmarked downtown warehouse to handle shipments from vendors in unmarked trucks. Designers of the Angel couldn't even get into a high speed wind tunnel, so calculations were made with computers. 50% of production took place in this building at Bakersfield. At peak production of the 50 U twos, only 600 people were involved, just one man in every 60 on the Lockheed payroll. The Angels were completely assembled here, checked out, disassembled and shrouded in canvas for airlift to Watertown. Fuel and hydraulic fluid were added for the first time at Watertown and the Angels were tested by company pilots. Because of its long, thin wings, the Angel has been referred to as a jet glider. It has the world's most efficient lift drag ratio for powered aircraft, 25.6 to one. That's better than many competition sail planes. From 70,000 feet, the Angel can glide 300 miles without power. The engine for this aircraft was originally the Pratt and Whitney J57-37, a PS10,500 thrust unit built for the B52. A later 11,500 pound version, known as the Dash 31 was developed specifically for the Angel. Pratt and Whitney President Jack Horner and chief engineer Wright Parkins crammed a normal three-year engine development program into 12 months. The new engine has a 16 stage compressor with 9 stages in the low range and seven in the high pressure chamber. The low range compressor is driven by a hollow shaft and turns at a lower speed than the high compressors. The Pratt and Whitney engine operates at full power for the duration of the flight. At sea level, this unit gulps nearly 9000 pounds of fuel per hour. At 70,000 feet this drops to PS700 per hour. At 74,600 feet, the engine will quit from oxygen starvation. In early stages of the program, as many as six flameouts occurred on a single flight. With the new fuel system and turbine design of the Dash 31 engine, flameouts have ceased to be a critical problem. And improved ignition system ensures air restarts at high altitudes. In the 1st 20 months that the Angel flew, logging over 5000 hours in the air, there were just two forced landings away from Watertown. Both planes, equipped with the older dash 37 engines, landed at Kirkland Air Force Base, Albuquerque, NM. After each development flight, a careful accounting is made of fuel consumption. A special fuel dubbed lighter fluid was developed by Shell Oil Company specifically for the Angel, and the finished product was shipped to Nevada in tank cars labeled LF1A. This blend will not boil at the low pressures encountered at altitude, yet will still give adequate air starts. It is so involatile that fire seldom follows a mishap. A simple 100 gallon slipper tank has been developed to fit each wing for extremely long flights. These pressurized tanks contain enough fuel to carry the Angel to cruising altitude, where they have no significant effect on speed or range. Even after the addition of an external drag chute, three times the normal oxygen supply, improved braking and an autopilot. The final all up weight was within 10 pounds of the original proposal. The Angel exceeded original performance limits in both ceiling and range. When the prototype Angel was flown across Death Valley to Watertown, Lockheed also found itself in the transportation business. Their own DC3 made almost daily flights to Watertown with a hand-picked crew of flightline mechanics. The first unofficial name for Watertown was Paradise Ranch. This description was dreamed up tongue in cheek to encourage key personnel to accept assignment on this special project before they could be told what it involved. Any one for golf? Many newcomers guessed that the project involved an atomic powered aircraft and were astonished to find that they were to work with. Two days later, in a rainstorm, the Angel went to 8000 feet. That day it took 5 attempts to land the plane because it would fly on idle engine thrust. The unusual bicycle landing gear, designed for the lightest possible structure weighs 257 pounds. A conventional gear on a comparable aircraft would weigh 750 pounds and take room out of the wings that is vital for fuel. Wing mounted pogos drop off during takeoff again in the interest of saving weight, weight and the space that paid off in an extra 1500 feet of altitude and 100 miles in cruising radius. As the operation at Watertown grew in scope, more transportation was required. A daily military air transport shuttle system was begun with C50 fours from Burbank. In bad weather, one of these transports crashed into Charleston Peak, a few miles north of Las Vegas. 14 members of the Watertown project were aboard. The program has not been without other casualties. One Angel crashed at Watertown. Another disintegrated over an Indian village named Wide Ruin in Arizona. A third, with Lockheed pilot Robert Seeker aboard, disappeared near Watertown. By the time this plane was found, some information about the project at Watertown reached the public. This nearly three years after its conception. That dust cloud is an actual crash. Rescue crews rushed to the end of the runway where an Angel has landed short. The pilot here was uninjured, but emergency crews take no chances with leaking fuel. Salvage operations mean that this fallen Angel will soon fly again to rejoin its sister ships already in the air. This project has had fewer mishaps than is normal with new aircraft, yet unique ground handling equipment designed solely for the Angel operates as well at this crash scene as it does on the flight line. Not all the difficulties at Watertown have come from the Angel herself. Extremes in weather, wind. Sand and heat. Snow. Cloudburst. Biting cold an ever present headache, but the angels must be ready for tomorrow's flight. It's almost all work and no play for the temporary desert dwellers at Watertown. Just 72 airline miles distant is Las Vegas. However, none of watertown's workers can visit these bright lights. Or refreshing scenery. Security is just that rigid. Meanwhile, back at the ranch. Volleyball pool, a 16 millimeter movie and a tiny converted mess hall are just about the only diversions. Those who remain over a weekend may explore long deserted gold mines. Remnants from another era of rugged desert pioneers. Here, as seen by few men, is what the world looks like from 70,000 feet. These themes were photographed over Arizona by Ray Gowdy, one of the five Lockheed test pilots who have handled all development and production testing of the Angel. Training of new pilots begins with the T33 for familiarization flights. The pilot must be able to hold the tea bird inches in the air for the length of the lake so that he will be able to hold the Angel at the same altitude until its broad wings lose all their life. This mastered, he graduates to the Angel and transition landings on the dry lake. A chase car and chase plane, both with two way radio, are used during this phase of training. Seat belts in the Chase car are good insurance. The new Angel pilot makes at least three landings with the POGOS installed. She's a little easier to handle that way. Takeoffs are smooth from Groom Lake. A wide circle as the chase plain plays follow the leader. Now turning on final approach, says the instructor in the Chase plane. Your airspeed is 92 knots. The chase car pulls into line and picks up speed. He's leveling off. Just a little high and at 72 knots. Here comes the stall. The best way to land the Angel is in a full stall, just like the old fashioned airplanes with tail wheels. The broad, dry lake at Watertown makes an ideal location for this type of transition training. After the landings improved, the Pogo safety pins are removed and the new pilot is on his own. Sometimes the driver's taxi right up to the hangar doors. Not bad at all for an airplane that's supposed to be hard to handle on the ground. After a number of day flights, the new Angel pilots are ready for night transition and long cross-country flight. It's no accident that the complete Angel and all its intricate cargo can be disassembled and packed quickly, ready for airborne transport. Everything about the Angel can go aboard a cargo plane, cameras in their dog houses. Engines. Lab equipment and supply. Ground support equipment. And of course, the Angel. The result of foresight and planning, engineering, precise and rapid manufacturing. That's it. What it is and what it can do, a vital chapter in modern American achievement. From the desert wastelands of Watertown, it's but a matter of hours to anywhere in the world where reconnaissance might be desired. The most important airplane, the most important cargo in the air today, is in this single package, the inquisitive Angel. In Russia for four years that they were making important advances in radar and missiles. And so in 1958, two years before Gary Powers was shot down, but we decided we'd try to make a follow on airplane which became finally the SR71 to fly higher and four times as fast so. That's the connection between the grandfather type and the SR71. Someone called him Kelly, and as he reminisced that day about the genesis of his Mach 3 masterpiece, he could have just as easily reflected back on a time when aircraft designers were striving for 200 mph a time when he landed his first job with the fledgling Lockheed Aircraft Company in 1932, a small group led by Robert E Gross had purchased Lockheed out of bankruptcy for $40,000 and stake the company's future on the development of an all metal. Twin engine transport. Models of the design were sent to the University of Michigan, where a young graduate student named Clarence L Johnson conducted wind tunnel tests. Although his faculty advisors gave the design of passing grade, he wasn't much impressed. And after he'd been hired on as a tool designer at Lockheed in August of 1933, he let chief design engineer Hall Hibbard know about it. Among other things, it would be directionally unstable, especially with one engine out, a rather presumptuous and certainly unconventional way for a 23 year old to start his career with the new company. But it was only a hint of what would follow. The son of Swedish immigrants, he'd been nicknamed Kelly by classmates because of his quick temper, stubborn tenacity and unwillingness to back down from a fight, even against overwhelming odds. Instead of reminding the outspoken young man of his place, Hibbard suggested he go back to the wind tunnel and see if he could improve the design. After 72 test runs, he came up with the solution, an unconventional twin tail arrangement soon to become a Lockheed trademark. And the Model 10 Electra became the foundation for Lockheed's future growth as various models of the airplane helped revolutionize commercial air transport in the 1930s. With his work on the design, Kelly Johnson became the 6th member of an engineering department in an industry which then couldn't afford specialists. Working often simultaneously as narrow dynamicists, stress analysts, weight wind tunnel and flight test engineer, he also put in long hours out in the shop, getting hands on production experience and learning first hand the importance of designing producibility into an airplane. It was a real world education on all phases of design and development that within a decade couldn't be duplicated, and the lessons learned became guideposts. With the rest of his career he flew, for example. His flight test engineer on all models of the Electra and worked for some of the most notable figures in aviation, such as Amelia Earhart. Out of this experience came his lifelong conviction that the designer had to be able to test his own airplane, as he later commented, and I decided at an early date that unless I had health scared out of me once a year, I wouldn't have the proper balance to really design new airplanes of any type. Kelly Johnson would log more than 2300 hours as a flight test engineer. The versatile Electra spawned 2 major developments. One was the XC35A modified Model 10, which in 1937 first demonstrated the practical feasibility of transforming the entire fuselage into a pressurized cabin to permit comfortable high altitude flight. Johnson was Lockheed Flight test engineer on this project, gaining first-hand experience with problems of pressurization and more important, with the tremendous possibilities pioneered. By this aircraft possibilities to which he and Hall Hibbard began to give serious consideration. Meanwhile, the Model 14 Electra incorporated a number of Johnson innovations, such as the first practical application of Fowler flaps, which both increased the wings lifting surface and served permits slower, shorter distance landings, an achievement which won him the 1937 Laurence Sperry Award. In 1938, the high speed and innovative features of the Model 14 attracted British interest in its potential as an anti submarine patrol plane, but the requirements necessitated a major redesign. Johnson worked around the clock for three days, transformed the Model 14 into the Hudson bomber. The British ordered an initial batch of 250 aircraft, at that time the largest production order ever received by an American company. But there would be many more 2000 to the RAF alone, out of a total production run of nearly 3000 airplanes. The Hudson put Lockheed into the big time, but even as production was gearing up, Kelly Johnson and his colleagues were well into other, much more ambitious designs. The success of the pressurized XC35 and the recognition that the next generation of air transports would be much larger higher speed transoceanic aircraft inspired Johnson, Hibbert and a small design team to lay out the now classic lines of the Model 49 Constellation in 1939. Using assumed to be legendary powers of persuasion, he convinced Lockheed to build its own wind tunnel, a decision that paid for itself many times over during the development of this design, as all aerodynamic problems were overcome early on and not one external change had to be made to the actual aircraft. Hibbard was so impressed by Johnson's wizardry that he swore he could see air. Commercial development of the legendary Connie would be delayed by the war, and it first flew as the Army Air Forces C 69. This, however, provided time to refine the airplane so that it wars end. Lockheed was postured to capture a lion's share of the commercial market, and various models of the elegant Connie would continue to grace the world's Airways into the late 1950s. At the time he laid down the basic design of the constellation, Johnson was already well into another path breaking project. In early 1937, responding to an air core requirement for a high altitude interceptor capable of 360 mph, Johnson and Hibbert hastily conceived some possible configurations, depicted here in one of Kelly's rough sketches. As Johnson observed many times in design, you're forced to develop. Unusual solutions to unusual problems. Their decision to go with an unconventional twin boom configuration was dictated by another axiom design features are the creatures of necessity. The twin booms evolved as a logical development of engine the cells which had to be extended to house the liquid cooled engines, turbo superchargers, radiators and main landing gear. It seemed logical then to simply extend the cells into booms which could carry the empanada notch. Their novel approach produced a winning design when the XP38 was finally rolled out in January of 1939. It's sleek lines, bespoke speed. And when Lieutenant Ben Kelsey took it up for its maiden flight, it delivered an impressive 403 mph, far exceeding the requirements. Thus began the saga of the P38 Lightning, the first American aircraft able to fly at such speeds. It offered dazzling performance and a host of new problems, for as it peeled over into dives at high altitudes, it could hit speeds approaching 500 mph in this region. The aircraft began to violently shake and nose over into increasingly steeper angles, and control forces became so heavy pilots couldn't pull out tragically. Some never recovered. Kelly Johnson wasn't taken by surprise. Although many insisted it was tail flutter, he immediately recognized it as the then little understood phenomenon of compressibility. At 500 mph, localized air flow over certain parts of the aircraft was reaching supersonic velocity, and this produced shockwaves and serious problems. The P38 was the first aircraft to encounter this, and so little was actually known about it that Johnson launched exhaustive. In tunnel studies and an accelerated dive test program headed by Chief test pilot Milo Burcham, after more than two years, he finally identified the problem as shock stall and the wing, which reduced lift and increased drag, thereby inducing the nose down tuck. Typically, he was quick to devise a cleverly simple remedy. A dive flap nodded to the main wing spar that when deployed, generated a positive pressure field, immediately restoring lift and a nose up pitching moment. Flown on every battle for the P38 excelled in combat christened the fork tailed devil by Germans, the versatile fighter combining speed and load carrying capability proved adaptable to a wide array of combat roles and its long legs needed. Ideal for the vast reaches of the Pacific where it destroyed more enemy aircraft than any other Allied fighter. Impressive though it was, Kelly Johnson was never satisfied with it. He'd longed foreseeing the inherent limitations of prop driven aircraft, and though unaware of developments in Germany and England were turbojets had already been successfully developed. He decided that props had to go. Thus, he and Hibbard became the 1st in this country to seriously pursue the possibilities of turbojet propulsion when in 1939, they asked Nathan Price to design an experimental turbojet power plant. Design of the L1000 got underway in 1940 and by 1942 Price had come up with a truly advanced design, a high compression ratio twin spool axial flow power plant promising an extraordinary 5100 pounds of thrust. Meanwhile, Johnson and the young engineer named Willis Hawkins led a design team that came up with the L133A truly radical twin engine stainless steel aircraft featuring thin wings and. And art surfaces and projected to achieve 625 mph at 50,000 feet. But surprisingly, when Johnson submitted a proposal for development of the engine and airframe in March 1942, the Army Air Forces showed little interest. Although launched long after his effort, top secret development of an American turbojet fighter powered by a British whittle engine was by then already underway. The Bell XP59A first flew at Muroc Army Air Force Base on California's high Desert in October of 1942. But it proved to be underpowered, overweight and scarcely optimized for jet flight. And early on, the Army Air Forces decided that it wouldn't meet frontline fighter requirements, though Bell didn't yet know this and the testing continued. On June 10th, 1943, a Bell engineer at Muroc reported back that Johnson had been permitted to examine the still top secret XP59A, and he wondered what he was up to. Unbeknownst to Bell, the Army Air Force had already asked Lockheed to submit a proposal for a simpler single engine jet fighter, built around a PS3000 thrust Alfred H1 engine which would be capable of front line service. Johnson took in a lot that day, but it already been wrestling with Jet Propulsion for nearly three years and he already had a suitable design well in hand. When he made his proposal at Wright Field on June 18th, he made the astounding promise that he deliver an aircraft. In just 180 days, getting immediate approval, he was cautioned that the utmost secrecy was required. Blocky was already swamped in terms of manpower, tooling and facilities with wartime contracts. But this was a blessing in disguise, an opportunity to implement an idea he'd been pestering Robert Gross about for years. Let him round up a small group of talented people, designers, engineers and shop men. Put them under one roof where they could all work closely together. And give him complete authority over everything from procurement to flight test. With no other options, gross said. Go ahead. Stealing people from around the plant. Just 28 engineers, including himself and 105 shop men. He also built a small facility out of discarded shipping crates using a circus tent for a roof. On June 19th he laid down the principles under which the project would operate in 1 1/2 pages. Now preserved an old photostats, they formed the basis for how he tried to operate for the next 30 years. He'd be responsible for all decisions. Paperwork and red tape would be cut to the minimum. Each engineer would be designer, shop, contact parts, chaser and mechanic and each would remain within a stones. Role of the shop at all times. There'd be but one object to get a good airplane built on time. The daily log indicates that two days later he laid out the horizontal structure of the organization. No pyramidal multi tiered layers of management. Each project engineer and the shop foreman would report directly to him, and in fact he'd be looking over everyone's shoulder. He wanted information direct from the men doing the work, and if they had questions they'd get decisions immediately on the spot. He'd promised the airplane in 180 days, as would become his custom. He gave his men 150. The clock started ticking on June 23rd. Forcefully reminded that simplicity is the keynote of good design, the designers jumped into their work, but this was a new kind of operation, and instead of moving from stage to stage, the schedule demanded an extraordinary degree of concurrency. With finished, detailed design still many weeks away, the mockup was started on June 30th and completed. By July 17. By then, milling and fabrication of parts and the construction of jigs to assemble the prototype was already well underway and by July 31st the bulkheads were going into the jigs and section by section the airframe started coming together. Throughout this. However, the design process continued as concurrent wind tunnel tests revealed problems. The wing and the engine air inlets were the biggest headaches. He'd gambled on the wing a laminar flow airfoil that had never before been tested on an airplane. And of course, nobody had had any experience with endless. Johnson was willing to accept mistakes on such an accelerated and risky venture as long as they were reported promptly. Typically he never asked why, but what are you going to do to fix it? The project was so secret that his group didn't even have a name. The whole setup reminded one of his design engineers, Erv Culver, of the mysterious Place where Hairless Joe, one of Al Capp's cartoon characters, and Little Abner ground up skunks, old shoes and other unsavory ingredients to brew a potent concoction called Kickapoo Joy Juice. So inspired, he answered the phone one day, skunkworks inside Man Culver. Though Johnson wasn't amused, his organization suddenly had a name that stuck. Remarkably, the completed aircraft arrived at Mirock on November 14th, just 143 days after startup. But when the engine was run up three days later, there was a terrific roar as the inlet ducts collapsed, sending debris into the engine and cracking the impeller. It took six weeks to get a new engine, but on January 3rd, 1944, Milo Burcham successfully completed the taxi tests. And five days later, in the chill of the morning on January 8th, Johnson and White coveralls, overcoat and stocking cap worked intently with his crew preparing for the first flight. As over 100 Skunk Works employees stood atop a hill looking on. He wanted everyone who had worked on the airplane they now call Lulu Bell to be on hand. It all Bircham just flyer Milo. Find out if she's a lady or a witch. 9:15 he took off. But only 5 minutes later was taxiing back to report that the landing gear hadn't retracted and that the boosted ailerons felt too sensitive. While the gear problem was being fixed, Johnson assured him that the control sensitivity was normal, and at 10:00 o'clock he took off again and this time put on a dazzling 20 minute display. Attaining a top speed of 490 mph and reporting A roll rate of 360 degrees per second. Back on the ground, he was able to report that Lulubelle was indeed a lady. The XP-80 ultimately became the first American aircraft to exceed 500 mph, but this was only the beginning. For months, Johnson had been working on a larger, more advanced version, with a PS4000 thrust General Electric I-40 engine promising much greater speed. He promised the XP80A just 150 days and delivered it in 132. But as Tony Levier taxied in after the first flight on June 10th, he'd had a few surprises, said her gravity miscalculations that cause porpoising a faulty pressurization valve at channel 325. 3 engine bleed air into the cockpit and malfunctioning flaps, but the airplane into violent roles. Only his superb flying skills allowed him to bring it back, and Johnson was so grateful he doubled Levier's bonus, a gesture pointing up the special relationship between them and indeed, between Kelly Johnson and all of his test pilots. Unlike so many of his peers, Johnson both understood and appreciated what his pilots did. He flew with them whenever possible. Shared their concerns, always listened and then acted on their recommendations. The XP80A's problems were quickly remedied, and it went on to become the prototype for America's first operational jet fighter. Though it wouldn't enter combat in World War Two, the P-80 Shooting Star would deliver awesome performance. In January of 1946, for example, Colonel William Council completed the first nonstop transcontinental jet flight, covering 24150 miles in a record 4 hours and 13 minutes and an average speed of 580 mph. In June of 1947, flying a specially modified P80R, Colonel Albert Boyd completed four runs over a speed course at Muroc, averaging 623 mph and reclaiming the world speed record for the United States for the first time in 24 years. And over Korea, November of 1950, a shooting star would down a Mig 15 in history's first all jet combat. And amply confirming Johnson's methods and his insistence on simplicity, the P80 would give birth to a number of progeny. Shrewdly sensing the need for a jet trainer, Johnson gambled $1,000,000 of Lockheed money on the development of an F80C airframe into A2 seat configuration, which after its first flight in March 1948 was transformed into the classic T33, an airplane affectionately called the T Bird, which would serve as the standard jet trainer for legions of student pilots around the world for the next 3 decades. In response to an urgent Air Force requirement for an interim all weather interceptor, the T33IN turn served as the basis for three different models of the F-94 Starfire, which filled a critical void, while newer designs specifically tailored for that role remained under development in the early 1950s. Not done yet? The now vintage design would realize its final incarnation as the T2V1C Star, an advanced navalized version of the T33. One of the iterations of the P80 design were still yet to come, however, as in 1946 he started design work to meet an Air Force requirement for a new penetration escort fighter. Early on, he explored the possibility of applying new concepts, a delta wing even in flight, variable wing sweep, and then discarded both some of the more than 60 concepts he'd examine and reject. When the XF 90 finally rolled out three years later, he was the victim of ever changing and conflicting requirements from a time to climb of 35,000 feet in 10 minutes to 50,000 in five 900 mile range to 1500 and then back to 600. And finally, ground attack capability in a high speed high altitude design. This prompted him to build a brawny airframe over 30,000 pounds, fully loaded and stressed for over 12 G's. When Tony Levier took off an early test flights he had to use Rocket assist because the pair of small PS3000 thrust J30 fours still lacked afterburning capability. The usual post flight congratulations and festivities belied the fact that Johnson knew he was facing terrible odds with the same pair of inadequate engines as their principal rival. The McDonnell XF 88 at half again is heavy. Because the 88 hadn't been beefed up the ground attack Johnson's airplane was bound to suffer. Performance wise it was overweight and underpowered and even when after burning was finally added, boosting combined thrust up to more than 8. 1000 pounds. Its top speed and level flight is only 668 mph slower than existing operational F80 sixes. It achieved 1 distinction, however, when in April 1950 Levier pushed over into a steep dive and it became the first Lockheed airplane to exceed the speed of sound. Performance no better than the XF 90s. The McDonnell entry won the competition, but neither design went into production. The whole ordeal thought Johnson never again to take on a job unless the requirements were both well defined and firm. Even though a failure, the XF 90 went on to demonstrate that he certainly knew how to build a rugged airframe. As in April 1952 it survived the 1st of a series of atomic blasts. Suffering only 20 hours worth of repair work. Meanwhile, Johnson was completing work on a much more unconventional airplane. Designed to meet a Navy requirement for a vertical takeoff and landing, or VTOL fighter, the XFV one was supposed to claw its way straight up by means of huge counter rotating props driven by a twin turbine power plant, providing more power than the airplanes weight. Engine development lagged however, and after test pilot Herman Fish salmon first lifted off from the lake bed and what was now called Edwards Air Force Base in December 1953, the underpowered. Sev 1 continued to rely on its makeshift landing gear for all takeoffs and landings. Once aloft, however, salmon was able to demonstrate that it could make satisfactory transitions from horizontal to vertical flight, and that it could hover in the vertical attitude. But lacking the promised power and explaining in his words that it's awful hard to fly an airplane looking over your shoulder, salmon wasn't eager to attempt vertical lift offs or touchdowns. Neither was Johnson, who, believing a designer shouldn't be afraid to fly his own airplane, had the integrity to recommend cancellation of the whole project. By that time, however, he already had a much more promising design on the ramp at Edwards. When Tony Levier first saw it, he asked incredulously where the wings were. But those tiny blade, thin wings and everything else about the XF one O 4 were actually the product of years of careful thought. Bert and Johnson's determination this time to employ his skunk works methods. Back in 1947, he'd modified AP80 with wingtip mounted RAM jets and with fish salmon at the controls. It became the first piloted aircraft to fly on RAM jet power alone. These tests supported a major skunk works type of effort to explore a whole new realm. At a time when missile and guidance system technologies were still in their infancy, Johnson's team had to design a pilotless Mach 3 test bed to further explore ramjet technology. The X7 was the product of their efforts and its tiny, thin, slightly tapered wings Johnson solution to the problems of high mock flight have been thoroughly tested. On rockets and with scale models. The X7 first flew in April 1951 and went on to a remarkable career. Launched from a B29 boosted the high speed by powerful rockets and then flying on various RAM jets under test, it ultimately exceeded Mach 4 and climbed well above 100,000 feet. Thus, those small, thin wings were already more than just a theory. Johnson visited the Korean battlefront in 1951, still smarting from the XF 90. It gone there to talk to the ultimate customers combat pilots about what they wanted in a fighter. To a man, it was higher speed, more altitude, and less complexity, intent on giving them just that, he made an unsolicited proposal to build a fighter for which no requirement. Yet existed when he promised Mach 2 at 60,000 feet in a simple, lightweight fighter. Colonel Bruce Holloway stepped into the next room and within two hours returned with a short 1 1/2 page list of requirements, this time with a firm, straightforward requirement. Johnson returned to his favorite skunkworks mode of operation and less than a year later, in February of 1954, Tony Levere lifted the X F1 O four from the lake bed for its first. Flight. They're configured with a much lower thrust engine than the powerful J 79 scheduled for the production model. The XF 104 was still faster than any other fighter in the world, but Johnson had produced more than just a dazzling performer, fanatical about costs and producibility. While design of the prototypes was still underway, he'd set up a small group of engineers to find the cheapest and most efficient way to produce each part of the production. Airplane. An innovation which would result in savings of about $12,000 per aircraft and millions for his customers. When the press finally got to see the F-104, they called it the missile with a man in it, and they weren't far off the mark. The 1st Mock 2 operational aircraft in the world. They would want to shatter every significant record on the books 91,000 feet and 1400 mph in May of 1958, making it the first aircraft ever to hold both the world Altitude and speed mark simultaneously. Three time to climb records later that year. And in 1959, it became the first airplane taking off on its own power ever to climb above 100,000 feet as Captain Joe Jordan zoomed up over 103,000 feet. This kind of performance clinched the 1958 Collier Trophy for Johnson. While the starfighter was capturing headlines with record-breaking performances, another much more exotic Johnson design was unbeknownst to all but a few, almost daily cruising and level flight at altitudes far beyond any official records. It had been borne of the massive arms buildup of the early 50s, when U.S. intelligence agencies urgently needed confirmation of reports of major Soviet advances in intercontinental range bombers and ballistic missiles. The decision to proceed with overflights led to a design competition for a reconnaissance aircraft capable of 70,000 feet. The Lockheed hadn't been invited to participate. Johnson had caught wind of it and hastily submitted a proposal to build the CL282, essentially a modified F1O4 with a wide span, high aspect ratio wing. Though it lost out to the bell X16, Kelly Johnson wasn't about to quit. Over the years he'd gotten to know a lot of people in high places, and he developed consummate lobbying skills. With a revised design and promising an airplane within just eight months, he got the go ahead to produce 20 aircraft for $22 million. The project, code named Aquatone, was directed by the CIA's Richard Bissell, who found the skunkworks streamlined, informal method of getting things done much to his liking. Secrecy limited access to a mere handful of CIA and Air Force personnel, which was fine with Johnson because it freed him from a lot of needless paperwork and interference. The urgency of the project also freedom from what he regarded as the tyranny of technical specifications. His customers simply wanted an airplane that could do the job, and all he had to do was deliver on time, while the article, as it was called, was a relatively conventional design. The extreme altitudes at which it was supposed to operate impose severe demands. Forced to ruthlessly cut weight, he reduced structural components to the minimum and designed delicate glider like wings spanning 80 feet and weighing less than PS4.00 per square foot. The fragile airframe was designed to run a special high altitude version of the J57 engine, virtually hand built to extremely high tolerances and originally producing 10,500 pounds of thrust. When the disassembled aircraft was unloaded from AC124 at a remote desert test site in July of 1955, Johnson had met yet another seemingly impossible deadline after reassembly was rolled out into daylight for the first time and painstakingly prepared for its taxi tests. On August 1st, as he had so many times in the past, Tony Levier climbed into the cockpit. During his third run that day, he suddenly noticed that he was more than 30 feet off the ground, coming down hard. The tires blew and the brakes failed and caught fire. Reporting afterwards, he explained that at 70 knots I became aware of being airborne, which left me with utter amazement as I had no intentions whatsoever of flying. Those fragile wings had more than enough lift. He completed the first real flight. Four days later and on the subsequent flight reported that the aircraft climbed toward the heavens like a homesick Angel. To conceal its true purpose, the Angel was given the misleading official designation U2, and a cover story was released to the effect that was being developed as a high altitude research vehicle for the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics. While it would perform this role admirably, tests focused on preparing the U2 for its real mission carry 700 pounds of high resolution camera equipment up to altitudes then beyond any air defense capabilities. And in July 1956, just eleven months after first flight, it commenced its clandestine operational career, climbing to well above 70,000 feet as fuel burned off. You 2 successfully completed flights over denied areas and brought back the first hard data on the status of Soviet military preparedness and the true extent of its intercontinental ballistic missile program, called the Dragon Lady by its pilots because it reminded them of the beautiful mysterious. And sometimes treacherous character in the Terry and the Pirates cartoon strip. It flew with virtual impunity for four years, until that day in May of 1960, Francis Gary Powers was shot down by a surface to air missile while deep penetration of Soviet airspace came to a halt. The U2 continued to overfly hotspots around the world, such as 1962 when it confirmed the existence of missile launch sites in Cuba. It would also continue to perform an incredibly wide array of extremely high altitude research missions. Kelly Johnson had reason to be proud of his Angel. The Skunk Works had finally been formally established as Lockheed Advanced Development projects, and on this, its first production program, he'd refunded $2,000,000 from the original $22 million contract and build an additional 5 airplanes out of spare parts. Surely one of the best bargains in defense procurement history. That pride was rekindled when in 1981, the larger, more sophisticated TR one was rolled out years after YouTube production had ended. It was the first time the Air Force had ever put an aircraft back into production and it remains to this day the highest flying single engine piloted aircraft in the world. Back in December of 1956, the Skunk Works is remarkable. Performance on the U2 had convinced Lockheed to give Johnson the job of designing and developing prototypes for a small military jet transport dollars were scarce, competition keen, and they'd only have 8 months to do the job. Being on time had always been one of his cardinal rules, and in just 241 days he delivered the jet star. He'd actually been working on designs for a large jet transport since 1944. This trim little crap was actually a scaled down version of the L193. The innovative 1953 design, which the airlines had feared too risky to support. Johnson, who continued to put in long hours as a flight test engineer on this project, was out to prove them wrong. And he was more than pleased with results. At top speed of over 600 mph, a peak altitude of 52,000 feet, and with wing tanks a range of over 3000 miles, the jet star easily won the competition and though only a limited number when into military service as C One 40s, ultimately more than 200 were produced and a great many of them remained in service to this day. The jet star was a pleasant diversion as he worked on another, much tougher project. Even as development of the U2 was still under way. He projected that air defenses would catch up with it within two years, and he'd initiated a remarkable series of design studies for liquid hydrogen fueled supersonic successor capable of climbing above 90,000 feet. Performance varied from Mach 2.5 and a range of 2200 miles. To Mark 4 and 9000 miles. Because of the extremely low volumetric density of liquid hydrogen, however, the latter speed and range capability could only be achieved by building an airframe twice the size of a B52. That was far too costly and thus a much smaller design at the lower end of the performance spectrum went into development as the CL 400 in 1956. Though the CL400 proved the technical feasibility of a liquid hydrogen powered aircraft, Johnson was dissatisfied with its short range and convinced that the problems of producing and transporting fuel around the world were insurmountable. Refusing to build an airplane he didn't believe in, he recommended cancellation of the project in 1957. But he had an ace up his sleeve, as concurrent with the liquid hydrogen studies, he'd also examined the potential of another advanced design using jet fuel, which at some loss in altitude promised Mach 3 crews and 4000 mile range. It was the genesis of his most spectacular creation. Given approval to proceed in April of 1958, Johnson began a series of design studies unveiled publicly here for the first time for what he initially called the U3 and then the Archangel, because it would soar much higher than the U2. He explored various means by which he could get the vehicle to altitudes as high as 150,000 feet, employing a variety or even a combination of rocket, ramjet and turbojet power plants. At one point, he looked at the use of balloons to lift it to its rocket boost phase and then at using a modified U2 to tow a RAM jet vehicle to 60,000 feet per engine ignition. He even considered a multi staged vehicle and one with inflatable wings and empennage. And throughout, he was challenged by the urgent need to reduce radar cross section. For the first time, stealth would have to be designed into the airplane. The intense design gestation process was completed in just 16 months, and when he presented his 12th concept to the CIA and Air Force in August 1959, he got the go ahead. When the stunningly beautiful A-12 was finally rolled out for its initial tests in April 1962, it wasn't some fantastic multi staged aberration. It was an honest airplane, but nothing like it had ever been built before. Ironically, code named OXCART and designed for sustained Mach 3.2 crews at altitudes between 75 and 95,000 feet, it posed by far the greatest challenge of Johnson's career. Everything from structural materials to hydraulic fluid and fuels had to be invented from scratch. For example, because of the intense heat at sustained Mach 3 speeds averaging more than 550 degrees on the surface of the airplane, Johnson employed a titanium alloy for more than 90% of the airframe. But no one had ever before attempted to process such quantities of the extremely hard metal to the purity and strength levels required, and thus new forging and milling processes had to be invented and perfected. When the thin titanium skin on a wing panel shriveled up during heating tests, Johnson separated the panels from the wing spars with extrusions and put the now famous corrugations in the skin. When heated thereafter, the corrugations merely deepened a few thousandths of an inch and on cooling returned to their original shape, the common sense solution to a difficult problem. There were literally thousands of such problems to overcome. And, as always, Johnson stayed on top of. All of them looking over people's shoulders and asking lots of questions, always the best way, in his view, to get people to solve problems. And he continued to amaze everyone with, for example, on the spot predictions of skin temperatures, which after hours of calculation they'd find were within one or two degrees of the exact figure. The whole effort, completed in absolute secrecy with an incredibly small group of people was all the more remarkable because it was done without the benefit of computers, as Johnson later recalled. When you think back to 1958, when the basic design work on the prototypes for this airplane is being designed and built, we had to make use of the Michigan computer, which is a 12 inch slide rule, and it did its job quite well. All of this prodigious effort was about to come to fruition, but on April 25th 1962 preparations for high speed taxi and an initial brief liftoff were completed. But as Lou shock speed down the runway he encountered nosewheel steering problems and had to kick in heavy right rudder. Then, as Johnson wrote in his log, the aircraft caught off the ground. There was an immediate change of rudder angle. This set up lateral oscillations which were horrible to see. Shock was lucky to get the airplane back on the ground. The problem was fixed post haste, and the next day he completed the first unofficial flight with the gear down. On April 30th, Johnson was back with an honorable of VIP's for the official first flight. Looking like he didn't have a care in the world, he offered a few last words of encouragement and advice before shock taxied out. And from there. Everything went flawlessly. 59 minutes later, Shock was back on the ground, welcomed by an elated Kelly Johnson, and the small awestruck assembly would just witnessed something very special. Limited by interim J-75 engines, the A-12 didn't begin to realize its full potential until after the Pratt and Whitney J58 for which it was designed, finally arrived in January 1963. At 32,500 pounds of thrust, the J58 was every bit as exotic as the airplane itself. In combination with an extremely complex inlet and exhaust ejector system, it operated as a normal afterburning. Turbojet up to speeds of about 1600 mph and then shifted to bleed bypass cycle, with the inlet actually providing most of the thrust at Mach 3 crews. When A2 seat trainer became available in early 1963, Johnson, True to his convictions about flying his own aircraft, jumped into the rear cockpit and taking control after climb out, he'd fly supersonic for the first time in his life. During the course of the test program, a pair of airframes were modified for a highly unconventional mission. 1964 The Skunkworks built a small 42 foot long airframe with the very same materials used on the A-12. Designed to overfly areas deemed too risky for air crews, the D21 drone would ride piggyback atop an A 12 for Mach 3 launches at 80,000 feet. And powered by a RAM jet originally developed during the X7 program, it would be even faster than the A-12. The finished article was mounted to its mothership, now designated M12, in December 1964. And on December 22nd, the unusual pair taxi for the first time. And flight tests got underway. After takeoff on launch missions, the M12 climbed to a rendezvous with a KC135 for refueling. And then proceeded on to the predetermined launch point. Where the BACKSEATER would monitor the systems and initiate the launch procedures. While there were several successful tests, it was always a very risky business at best, and Kelly Johnson personally cancelled this program after a fatal midair collision in 1966. By then, however, he already had two other very successful Ox cart progeny off the ground. The first was the YF 12A prototype for a proposed high speed interceptor. It was this aircraft which went on public display when in 1964, President Lyndon Johnson announced the existence of the A 11. And it subsequently put on a dazzling show, as in May 1965 it claimed no less than nine world records, including a top speed of more than 2000 mph and a sustained altitude of over 80,000 feet, without in any way taxing its full potential. And we have 12 was equipped with an advanced ASG 18 Doppler radar system and configured to carry three AIM 47 missiles internally. Though missiles had never before been launched within the YF 12 speed and altitude regime. The aircraft and its systems scored a reported 90% kill rate, even against drones flying head on down on the deck at distances of 120 miles and more. The Air Force was impressed enough to order 93 of the big fighters into production for the Air Defense Command, but budgetary constraints ultimately resulted in their cancellation, and shortly thereafter, the A 12 was also removed from service, leaving only the Air Force's SR71, which took over its reconnaissance mission. So everything about it and its activities would remain cloaked in a heavy shroud of secrecy. This was the aircraft that everyone came to know as the Blackbird. The solid coat of black paint, which seemed to add to its allure and mystery actually had a very practical purpose. It reduced skin temperatures by about 75 degrees. It's clean, elegant lines and the smooth contours of its blended wing body shape give the impression that. An artist had sculpted it into a rare work of art. An aircraft design, however, more than any other field, form follows function, and here again, every line, every detail of the airplane exists only to serve some practical purpose. The chimes, for example, which extend from the wing to the nose and flow gracefully up into the fuselage, actually satisfied a number of requirements. Aerodynamically, they reduced drag and added lift. While also enhancing the stability of the aircraft, the SR71's mission was long range reconnaissance and its fuselage was essentially a big fuel tank. And thus the Chinese also serve to house its sophisticated cameras and sensors. Finally, those sloping contours extending up from the chimes enhance the airplane survivability by reducing its radar cross section. Thus, while an artist might envy its striking beauty, an engineer would only marveled at the logical genius of its design. That genius was recognized when, in 1964, Kelly Johnson became the first person ever to be awarded a second call your trophy. The SR71 went on to claim the world absolute speed and altitude records and then repeatedly extended them. And to the public, it always remained Kelly Johnson's mysterious record-breaking Blackbird. The crews who flew it, however, had another name for it. Throughout its long operational career it remained invincible and incredibly effective, and to its crews it was habu. Dark skinned pit Viper with a deadly bite. And though it was finally retired from Air Force Service in 1990, Kelly Johnson's Mock 3 masterpiece is still charting the future, its crews still looking up toward the blue black void of space flying exotic research missions for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. What are you, retired in 1975? Kelly Johnson had been on the cutting edge of an advance from 200 to more than 2000 mph. He'd been involved in the design of 44 different airplanes, many of them among the classics of aviation history, and at the time he was still looking very much into the future. He'd gotten the skunk works into a project. Which would bear fruit in the F117A, the world's first true stealth aircraft. And it left a legacy which would leave its mark on the future. It seems kind of ironic that lowly creature, known primarily for its odoriferous emanations, had, by the time Kelly retired, become a universal symbol for excellence. What was his secret? Well, he had a remarkable capacity to take a complex problem, reduce it to its simplest components, and then take the most direct and sensible approach to its solution. Always a maverick, he was smart enough and tough enough not to follow the committee rule of conventional wisdom. This gave him remarkable freedom. With that freedom came a tremendous burden of responsibility. Finally, and most important, he understood himself well enough to realize that with a few good people. You can do remarkable things. Kelly Johnson's greatest legacy wasn't just what he did. But the way he did it.