Welcome to Liesl's Artistic Studio! I am really you to paint this beautiful watercolor Christmas can paint it in more of a quick freehanded way or out if you need, we have a lot of options here! So some of these outline possibilities first. Now, I'm painting my in more of a square format a horizontal or vertical format as well, and then Christmas message on here also. I already have a but I will go over this with you step by step along to create your own. Because pencil can I will be using a thin Sharpie marker for little more clearly. Now the first thing we is the circle for the Christmas ball. Maybe than I am but I decided to trace my circle using whatever you'd like to make yours, the thing to I'm going to draw this part in pencil because I Then after I've got the circle or ball drawn, then piece with a little circle hook on top of that, Really this is all you need to actually paint the majority of this piece this is all you like a little bit more guidance let's draw of small circles for some berries here [Music] And the next thing you can add on serve as a guide for where some Pine again you can keep this very simple by just just free hand painting in the needles, or needle lines as well so you can get an idea [Music] [Music] [Music] Once again this is a great stopping point that the painting portion right now, or you can you. If you would like to add more, the next stem lines for where the pine trees are in the you can freehand paint the tree at this point quick outline sketch of the general size and there are a lot of options with how simple or is really up to you and your preferences. I will have this outline available on my Etsy to draw any of this at all! I will have this as well as card sizes 4x6 and 5x7. I'll leave a [Music] And one last thing here at the bottom of I'll add in a few drip marks and then So here I have my outline sketch drawn very If you're using my Etsy outline then all you have just a well lit window in your house. And as a square format. This one I've cut down my paper paint this on whatever size or shape you like. So quickly here. I have my watercolor paints, a paper a couple of brushes. I'll be using my personally I'll pull out the number six brush and the number out right now but there is a chance that Craftamo enough interest. If you'd like to be notified if the link that I have in the description of this other products you see me using today will also be my paper is taped down with artist tape we are on this piece today is a bit of masking fluid. Now bit if you'd like to give this a try. Along with to use with it so I don't risk ruining one of my in the bristles of this brush to help clean out or two before I learned this trick! So I highly this masking fluid is this one little pine branch don't want to use masking fluid or don't have it to do this so that these pine needles will be a making them stand out a little bit, but it is the ornament as well. Next up I'll put a little on the page as well. Once again this is optional, found it helped make the painting process a little painting a little bit of masking fluid under the help when I began painting the ornament, but I here. I discovered that I needed to actually take pine branches, but it was sort of connected to the yet, so that was a little bit tricky! So just like I did and you'll be just fine. I am also left side of the ornament as well to help create we need to let that fluid dry completely before let's talk about colors. Now you of course can are the artist here. I'm choosing to use sort of the red in this painting to really stand out more. some designs techniques and colors on. If I ever I always save my scrap pieces of paper that I here I actually also practiced some techniques week. These little scrap pieces come in handy for need already on my tray from my painting from a little bit. First we have just some pure cadmium color which is a mixture of cadmium red with some bit but also keep some vibrancy in the color. And darken the value even more. In fact while I've got I may take a little bit more Ivory black and make In fact it's more of a black with a hint of red I don't think, but now we have it just in case. I start painting in the red ornament let's grab just maybe even a gold or a metallic color, and quickly don't know what it's called so you can let me know I'll just use the rigger to quickly paint in a little bit of maybe some burnt umber to add in a the outer edges of the space and maybe near to in fact if you want you can come back detail vertical lines to this part to give I think at this point we can start painting in brush now and begin painting the entire area with fluid to cover the berries that may overlap Then we'll begin adding in the red color to wet. We'll start with more of a watery or light little circle area of masking fluid but not a little bit of white wet space in here as well. a nice circle of color. After I've got this bit and use the damp brush to gently soften and spread circle that will become the highlight area later. cadmium red that can move farther down into the painting this ornament today. It's really initially so that it stays a little wet while we You may also need to work a little more quickly Now let's add in some of the darker shadow red it fully to the edge of the ornament though. To key to have what's called reflected light on the other sources bounces off and reflects back onto the shadow area. If you find that you've kind of off and use the damp bristles to sort of swipe to you can also use a damp brush to help soften bit. Be cautious with this though, you don't want I really like how this is turning out! It gives but I may actually add just a touch of this really the ornament and maybe spreading into the darkest I have let the ornament dry just a little ahead and paint in some of the background I kind of want my green color to be a little so for my color here I'm just mixing up some blue for a nice blue green color. And then to It's always a good idea to test out mixed colors what you want before you start putting it on your begin painting in the background pine trees. These so to help with that without having to add water bit of paint on my brush and then dip the tip of of color with extra added water without having to in the first background tree. Some of you may have tree so now here is the chance to use some of your way or however you'd like. I have more of an as a base guide, however, I am not going to follow and add what I feel looks good or what my picture complicated trees though. I'm not worrying about the background they should not be the focal point in almost a silhouette form with just one light ornament I really want to fade my color out even so I'm going to get a little bit more water on my so that it almost disappears. In fact if you ever can use your paper towel to dab some of that in the next tree now. I'll paint this in the same value and fading it out more as I get closer to to paint will be a little bit darker in value than I'm already painting this nice light watery green in some of these little drip marks or puddles hope you're enjoying and finding this tutorial fun teaching style then I hope you'll subscribe if you tutorials coming up in the next few weeks that well done! We need to let all of that dry just a going to switch over to the rigger brush and take in the little hook or circle at the top of the to it. Okay, I think we can go ahead and paint I said a little while ago, we want these trees to but we will paint them in the same way as before, mist down near the bottom. You'll notice that want to be able to stay productive and keep than continually stopping and starting over again. option to pull out a hair dryer to speed up the [Music] [Music] [Music] Now, I haven't been painting these trees to be working fine just to put the color straight or not spreading very well you absolutely can [Music] [Music] Alright, well done! That is a good portion things left! Next up I want to paint in the page. Seeing as these are in the foreground of darker than the tree silhouettes we just painted, brush and just quickly test out your color once to you can always add in a touch more color to even more. All we have to do now is paint in some ornament. There's not anything too difficult brush like this. This brush paints in amazingly tip I have for you here is to start painting the outer part. It is just a normal tendency to start the brush outward we tend to move a little quicker line at the end of the stroke. A couple of other up the berries in this area, you do need to be with these lines. I love having the masking fluid strokes right over the top of the berries and depending on how you did your initial drawing in a little bit. But even though I actually had this is just a guide. I am painting the lines that says you have to stick to the lines you feel like they need to go, even if that means [Music] Alright, well done! This looks pretty good if I out and in my hand, I'm going to add a few lines I'm going to water a bit of this paint down though want them to become the focus of this picture. Moving on, we're going to start taking off off. I'll start with the circle dot of masking this just how it is if you don't want to risk is a pretty harsh and hard line and I kind of want I'll just take some water and then use my brush use my paper towel to dab the color and water off. mine tend to sort of stain the paper pretty good, but this really kind of just softens up that hard more natural. Next up I'll just use an eraser and below as well as this one little pine branch that with your fingers or just use a good eraser, before doing this otherwise you risk smearing or especially when you're this far into it! In fact, any other lines that might be showing or standing light watered down green paint and quickly paint either have it be lighter than the ornament or out a little bit. Since I use the fluid to block to paint it a nice light color of green. Now, if brush again and begin painting in the berries. pretty good at getting into the small spaces, smaller brush if it works better for you. In fact to make this process a little bit easier. There I think I've shown several techniques in many these in whatever way works for you. Today I'm a little bit of cadmium red and paint it along my brush off and use the damp brush to spread the around a circle highlight. Now, you can leave to add in a bit of extra dimension, you can take line or section about halfway through the berry go ahead and paint in the rest of the berries [Music] [Music] Then if you want to really add a even add in a few splatter marks. I'm load it with green paint, and then cover up any go using a scrap piece of paper. For me I'm I'll just tap my brush onto another until If you really want to go the extra mile here, acrylic paint, water it down a tiny bit, and marks around the top area of the page as well. trees because it almost gives the appearance As you can see, there are a from the colors, to the outline, to to even the splatter marks. You really can to paint! I truly hope you enjoyed this painting. you in the coming weeks. If you did enjoy subscribing to my channel so I can continue