This is every country in the world... by Wendover We'll start with Afghanistan is one of the few countries worldwide 30 minute interval, its at GMT +4:30, while is one of the many countries to only have It aligns to GMT mile long Afghanistan-China border jumps you That's the largest single time zone jump China in all its craziness railroad from Beijing, up across the Bering happens to be the home of 41% of Wendover Up in the north-west of the US, Point Roberts, cut off from the US by Canada and since it to cross on their way to school. Canada happens to be the lakes than the rest of the world combined. Its so is closer to Croatia than it is to Vancouver. One of birthplace of the sculptor Marinas who went founded San Marino, the fifth smallest country surrounded by another country. One of the others is the Vatican--the smallest the world--and there's also Lesotho, which Lesotho is the only country in the world to have three Pretoria is the home of the president, and South Africa also almost completely surrounds country--Swaziland, where roads are so bad died in While mostly surrounded by South Africa, Swaziland's Mozambique, whose name scores higher in scrabble second place for scrabble is Kyrgyzstan which is In Uzbekistan, no river leads to the Ocean--they drain into endorheic basins where all the Uzbekistan is one of only two in, landlocked by landlocked countries. In this also ends in -stan--Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, The other double-landlocked country is nation. In their last military engagement in 1886, and they actually returned with 81 people they made a "new italian friend." Italy is home to the Breuil Cervinia ski resort ski across the border into Switzerland. Switzerland is rather paranoid about war to 3,000 points of entry into the country are Switzerland is also home to one end of the flight in the world--a six minute, 10 mile illegal to Seriously--they say its only human nature. Germany is home to half of one of the and the Polish side of this island, despite 200 feet from mainland Poland, is not connected Roberts, residents have to cross international Poland also monarchy for a brief eight years in the 16th Sweden has an internationally divided island The border built a lighthouse in Swedish territory and just readjusted the border to make everyone Finland has exactly 187,888 lakes, and its than Poland due to the curvature of the earth. Greenland isn't actually a country so I'm of 30 miles from the ocean. The wife of Denmark's Crown Prince, Crown is the 6th largest country on earth and is 3,500 mile structure to keep wild dogs out The middle of Australia also has practically long precisely straight section of railroad Australia freed the country of Brunei from few countries worldwide to be comprised of St Kitts and Nevis is a two island nation and also the smallest Americas. In Saint Kitts and Nevis you can gain citizenship much like Bulgaria, where people nod up and and right to mean yes. Bulgaria is one of the few countries to have which created its own time zone in 2015 for North Korea is where more than half the population lives this line. Between Norway and North Korea is of course world. Its easternmost point is, in fact, closer Mexico once had three military coup, but also accustomed to short Alsace-Lorraine in France which was an fully-recognized between being part of Germany and France at France, of course, had is the largest country in Africa and unlike its neighboring countries, is quite nice to 70% of the countries lawyers are female. Right de facto control of some of Western Sahara, thats not really part of any country. That's why its always blank on data maps. Morocco Melilla, which are politically part of mainland rather than overseas territories, despite Spain once had an enormous is now a US associated state, meaning they're independent nation but the US covers defense Micronesian citizens can join the US right only given to citizens of freely associated Their currency is also the US dollar. Palau is also a nearby US associated state often compared to Fiji since they're both they're Fiji was a British colony up until 1970 and was to avoid using this transition up until I could've used it with Nauru, St Kitts Brunei, Australia, South Africa, Canada, the it for now. The UK is home to the shortest regularly scheduled Westray and Papa Westray in the Scottish isles. It costs 17 pounds, takes 53 seconds, and The UK has two exclaves--both of which are One the the other is Akrotiri and Dhekelia on Cyprus. There are border control agents from three Turkey. Northern Cyprus is a self-declared state only control of the territory with a heavy military Istanbul, span two continents--Europe and Asia--although are plenty of countries on two continents. In Egypt, the Sinai peninsula sits in Asia is in Africa. Just past the southern border of Egypt is country since Egypt and Sudan disagree on Sudan recently split into two UN recognized country. The second youngest called Serbia and Montenegro but split after referendum. Montenegro also happens to be a town in Costa The capital of Costa Rica, San Jose, only fight of license plates correspond to their banned Costa to the Panama Canal which, counterintuitively, its Atlantic end, the ocean to the east, to the west, to the Panama's southern border is with Colombia mile between North and South America. You probably but so was the Netherlands. It was called the Spanish The Netherlands is also home to Baarle-Nassau, in the world. Belgium is well known for having a UN headquarters, --the suspected birthplace of the human race. Kenya's northern neighbor is Somalia, which Somalia has had three separate wars with Ethiopia last century, and Ethiopia national airline 787 country. Ethiopia also has another one of those with Djibouti, which is home to the lowest Africa, Lake Assal, at 509 feet below sea Djibouti also hosts the only US military base Africa, and Israel hosts one of the smallest Despite being a middle eastern country, Israel leagues since they're middle-east. Israel has one of the weirder international depending on who you ask. The largest is in Chile which is one of the only countries have a government sponsored UFO research organization. Chile is the southernmost mainland southernmost commercial airport. That title goes to International Airport. This (Iguazu Falls) spectacular and Brazil which is home to the Amazon River, doesn't have a single bridge over it. Not one--its just in an area where practically Recife, Brazil is closer to Dakar, Senegal Just off pretty much paradise. They have a high human rate, and the lowest recorded temperature history there was 50 degrees fahrenheit. As a former Portuguese colony, Cape Verde Portuguese which is the 6th most spoken language Portugal, is smaller than Kentucky. They just had an enormous empire, which for included Indonesia, which has another one Papau is divided between Haiti and the Dominican Hispaniola is the 22nd largest island in the Its 85 million years ago Madagascar was connected before the continents shifted but Sri Lanka via a land Sri Lanka is just north of the equator but Ecuador. Its capital, Quito, is only 20 miles from 15 Although, since the country is split by the and summer happens at the same time in the Ecuador is one of 30 countries to have an to Copacabana, not that one, this one, in Bolivia, driving through Peru. Bolivia, despite being a landlocked country, Navy, although Mongolia, also a landlocked tugboat--and seven total sailors. Mongolia is also the least dense country on 5 people per square mile. While they may seem un-intimidating now, the once, the largest contiguous land empire in Part of that empire was Cambodia, which has years. 95% of Cambodia's population is Theravada The other major branch of buddhism is Mahayana Japan where, out of its total population of 2012. Iceland, however, can top that, because they Of course, Iceland it less impressive until you consider that Iceland's residents own guns. 60% of that population, however, lives in Iceland was independence, and Armenia separates Azerbaijan Armenia-Azerbaijan border is closed, residents Nakhchivan have to go all the way around Armenia Azerbaijan's five times in the past few decades and four games have ended in a 0-0 tie. Andorra is the largest country in the world which is less impressive when you consider The international airport is the Maldives, the smallest country. This airport has dozens of destinations and connections to other islands which means once seaplane to your destination. One of the airport's destinations is Kuala which is home to world's largest roundabout Malaysia is the the largest surviving city-state in the world. Despite having hundreds of skyscrapers, Singapore That square mile large. Monaco has no income tax, much whose official name starts with the word The Gambia's interesting shape comes from the river Gambia whose watershed reaches all to have the word Guinea in its name. The other two are Guinea-Bissau and Equatorial Guinea was once the word for the entire west-african independent from their colonizers many chose Equatorial mainland--its on an offshore island--and, the equator doesn't intersect Equatorial the equator island to the south of the equator. This is similar to islands in the Pacific. Kiribati is the first place on time zone is UTC +14--a time zone exclusive these islands. Kiribati is close friends with Cuba since reduced the child mortality rate by 80%. Cuba--the only Caribbean island to have a railroad--is one of the few remaining communist One of the others is Laos--the only borders Vietnam--also communist and the 14th having the size of about New Mexico. Vietnam is is not great friends with bordering Guyana Guyana thinks the border looks like this and Guyana America--borders Suriname--the smallest other than the Netherlands whose sole primary Suriname was our 98th country so that means the end of part one of Every Country in the December 13th so make sure you're subscribed If you enjoyed this and other Wendover Productions on Patreon. Every dollar contributed over there goes right reports to show you where your money went. You can receive great rewards through that and more. You can either click here or go to www.Patreon.com/WendoverProductions. Please also follow me on Twitter @WendoverPro, Aviation, check out my fan moderated subreddit more, subscribe to this channel. I'll see you next Tuesday for part 2 of