(upbeat music) - This is F1rst Motors. The craziest and most exclusive car showcasing the most sought from sports cars to hypercars to rare classics and Japanese icons. We got a chance to tour and that video went viral. Now we're back with F1rst It's just like, it's either F1rst Motors or I'm like, &quot;Forget about it. I don't wanna go to that dealership.&quot; More excitement. All right, let's hammer it. (car engine revving) (Erman laughs) - That's fast, Dude. - [Enes] And a deeper look it takes to have a showroom like this. - If you're gonna do something, do it the best or don't do it. - [Enes] I cannot wait to Let's get started. (upbeat music) All right everyone, we're and of course we are with Ali. - Of course - Welcome back, my friend. - Thank you, thank you. Obviously we were one of a walkthrough of this incredible showroom. - Of course. now here we are back. The selection of cars now is insane. - I mean a lot has changed Our stock, I think at was at a hundred million dollars. - Correct. - I feel like rarity of the cars this time is on another level. - Yes. - And just off of the entry we Then you walk in Sian, Jesko, and AMG-One. We're gonna talk about that in a second. But can we start with the Sian for a second? - Of course, the Sian Roadster, there's only 19 of these made worldwide. It is the last combustion So after this there's which is Revuelto coming This car has presence, it has the looks, and if you want exclusivity, well this is the only full black - Not only you're caring you're also looking at In fact, the 918s on the back, we have number four and - [Ali] Yes we do, and both Number six is in metallic chrome blue, and number four is in red. - I feel like this is not it's like an art gallery. You're presenting art. Most of these cars have zero And not only that, you're sourcing them from all around the world. - Which makes it even more challenging. Can we talk about the Koenigsegg? The level of craftsmanship The carbon fiber work, - Yeah, Koenigsegg is known I mean if you look at this car, it's an absolute masterpiece. Not only is it carbon, it also has gold flakes inside the carbon. So the level of detail, if you look all around the car is incredible. It's also lap times on - And what is the price on this? - Price is around $5 million for this car. But you know when you you could ask anything you want. - Yeah. And which in this - Of course. - Of course you can. You can click the ghost button two times and the car will transform. (car whirring) - This is so cool. Look at those extension They're also like painted in gold. - Now if you walk around the - This is what you get for - You could see the engine and - Oh my God. Look how wide those back tires are. - Yeah. - It's like appreciating a piece of art. It's a piece of engineering Imagine going 200 plus so close to the ground. And these are all the mechanics safe when you can perform - Don't forget it's 1,600 horsepower, and this car actually has ratio of one to one. So it's pretty fast. - I want everybody to get the angle that I'm seeing looking at this car. It's incredible. - So I want you to notice, I mean we don't just bring cars here. It has to be the best spec We don't just bring any car I mean we try really hard to acquire the best cars in the world. - I feel like you ruined to going to showrooms around I'm not impressed with anywhere anymore. It's just like it's either F1rst Motors or I'm like, &quot;Forget about it. I don't wanna go to that dealership.&quot; - Do you know we do have a motto. I mean if you're gonna do something, do it the best or don't do it. So we always try to push the limits. - Ali, I know everybody wants Arguably one of the most And now that I'm getting a it looks incredible. - Yes. This is a V6. - 1.6 liter. A V6 hybrid engine. And this actually has - Really? Lewis Hamilton has two of these. Mercedes could have outsold but to maintain exclusivity on the car, they decided to stick to It's the first formula one And it won't be repeated again. I don't think so. - And what's the price tag on this? - Around $5 million. So every 30,000 miles you Because it's such a specific F1 engine. - It is. around $900,000. - To rebuild the engine. - Insane. And the second thing is, I believe they're not road legal in US. - They're not, yeah. Around 50 of these were You know those orders So you know Mercedes easily - Exactly. Ali, I don't but can we also see the - Of course. position on this is super - Yeah. my outfit is flexible enough, but look at this door. This is incredible. Cody, come over to this side. I mean I don't even Let's see. Okay. - How is it? Like you're so concentrated, roof is sloped above you, windshield. I can't even see the - [Ali] Yeah, and what's the car is that it's hand built. - That's amazing. But position is relatively comfortable. It's not super intimidating. - It's a track focus car. But a road vehicle, it's the fastest road legal car on the track. - Yes, also, I believe it's - On Nurburgring, it is. Amazing. - [Cody] This is insane. Even for like a track car too, like you still have like infotainment and everything. - [Cody] With the two screens. But I mean, you're like a fairly tall guy and you're fitting in there pretty well. - Yeah, pretty well. All right, getting out is actually easier. Now Ali, let's talk about the car that's next to the AMG-One. - [Ali] Okay, this is Only 30 of these were made. It's called the 300+, because it broke the which is, it's done over a 490 kilometers. This is my favorite Chiron. - This is the best looking Chiron - It is. - It's the best one, And out of all the Chiron because it's the one with - [Enes] W16, two V8 engines combined. - Exactly. I dunno. I would like to show you the interior of the car. So. This car is so beautiful. Ali could see how excited So much so that F1rst Motors us with this car for one of our shoots. (engine humming) - Okay, never driven a car like this. The way this thing sounds is What you guys are hearing is maybe 15%. And I'm not exaggerating. I have a monster in my hand. This is the craziest See ya! (engine revving) (upbeat music) (engine humming) Wow. It's like I got rebirthed. - [Erman] You don't wanna leave - I actually don't want leave. - [Erman] I know, I know. - I really (beep) like it. The way this car drives, the feeling it gives you And it inspired me to to buy this car in the next five years. Let's see if I can pull this off. It's, it's incredible. And Ali, I wanna play a game with you. - [Ali] Of course. - Since you have this insane selection here with all the cars, why don't you and I pick classic car, and hypercar. - Once we're done with the tour. - Of course. - That way we can kind because you have some amazing And we have some, I'm gonna say reasonably priced fast cars here. - So let's pick that - Of course, comparatively to the showroom reasonably priced. Yes. - Exactly. And speaking of reasonably, I wanna talk about the SF90s here. - Yeah, I think this is the most understated car from Ferrari. It is a pieced engine, and combined with the hybrid engine, it produces a thousand horsepower. Now this car is a four wheel drive. So you have the extra traction. It is a safe car to drive. And zero to a hundred So you would smoke almost - I was gonna say, you almost - You do. performance in a really subtle way. - Don't forget till today it is the most powerful Ferrari made. - After the SF90, we checked and this carbon Veneno. Only 12 of these Venenos were produced, and this is the only full which also happens to And James, if you're watching you'll get this car one day. Just looking around and it's hard not to be And it intrigues us to learn and how they can have the most (upbeat music) Over $250 million worth of cars. I mean that's a serious number. And it's the same showroom, but the price tag went up. What happened? - Well we decided to upscale. And what we noticed is that it's actually more fun to be in. We only have a limited number But we always think what would we like? What would we like to be done differently? Even when there is no well what can we do better? Whatever ideas are there in terms of quality, in And that's what we look to do. Again, the experience is free for everyone to come in here and enjoy. - The fact that two this is the conversation we're I mean if you don't believe me, watch the video from two years ago. It's the same CEO, it's the same company, it's the same location. But obviously the narrative has changed in the best way possible. It has improved. And they're always pushing the boundaries. And it's not just F1rst Motors, that's Alpago Group in general, Alpago Properties, this is And I think it also comes from the fact that you guys believe in Dubai so much. It's almost a little bet and it's certainly paid off. (upbeat music) What would be some of the or recommend to you know, people out there who want to get in this business? - Lemme say, first of into this industry, I a stock of $250 million. We have a holding company behind us. I mean, you would have if you want to come into this industry. And that's if everything - And if you can execute on it. - And if you can execute, and if you become established and so on. It's a big game to play. - The fact that F1rst Motors and made this showroom a and see their dream car is incredible. And speaking of dream cars, We gotta talk about that you have in this showroom. So I believe there are two and then we have three other here. I love that we are casually this many Bugatti's being a normal thing. Obviously this Divo, you told - [Ali] Beverly Hills. - So this was in our - Territory, yes. - Do you want to show the - Of course. - [Enes] Cody, let's go in there. I feel like at the hypercar to design a totally different interior. Almost similarities of these brands go farther apart from each other. Every single interior - [Cody] They feel different. - [Enes] Yeah, we have and they're totally different than this. - [Ali] Of course, I the Rolls Royce of hypercars. It's the most comfortable - Beautiful. Now how about - [Ali] So this is the Pur Sport Bugatti. Total 60 of these were Bugatti with the fixed wing. - The back just looks insane, Ali, like look at all the proportions. Carbon fiber, car world is getting really good at using carbon fiber. - Yes. - Both aesthetically and - Of course, they're always improving. There's a high demand for it. And if you look at Bugatti, it's got one of the best carbon fibers in the world. - How about the other one? - Okay, that's the Chiron Sport. It's 110 anniversary, total All of them come in the - Actually Cody, let's do this. Why don't you come on this side. I'm gonna go to the other side, and I wanna see how the interior feels. All right, let me go in. This is beautiful. - [Cody] Even just like with the 110 on the back headrest. - It's cray- - Yeah, like it's crazy to because the interior - Well, I'll tell you something I mean if you notice there's less buttons, less distractions inside the car, and even the sound system. And if you ask them why is it they say well you could listen to the engine rather than music, so. - I agree with them. All right, that's it for this Bugatti. - [Luis] Wait, wait, wait. Can I mean we can't just walk and not, you know, start it up. - You guys wanna start this? - Yeah. - Cody, what do you think? - [Cody] Yeah, lemme get to - Ali, do you trust me - Yeah, sure. Here you go. - All right, thank you. Oh this is exciting. My wild dream. Let's see. All right, you guys ready? - [Cody] Let's do it. (engine revs) - Come on. (engine revs) Okay. This is insane. Oh my God. - Well that was exciting. - [Cody] That sounds - Luis, are we happy? - [Luis] Very happy. Thank you so much. - Beautiful, beautiful car. Who knows, I may pick a Why not? And speaking of hypercars, Pagani. - [Ali] Of course. - [Enes] What a beautiful car. - Well it's the shape and It's the design. I mean if you look at the mirrors, and the level of details this is the first customer Total a hundred roadsters were built, and a hundred coupes were built. This is what sets F1rst Motors aside. We don't only bring the car, but we also bring the unique one. - Amazing. We gotta show First off, look at this door. Obviously the carbon I think Pagani makes - [Ali] It does, it does. - The way they use metal, carbon fiber, and materials like leather And Ali being the host that to show the full - So this is succeeding - Yes. as you know, some go - They're insane. So this is the next one. - I admire car manufacturers and their love for producing stuff. People have no idea how so many different skews of items. Assemble it perfectly, And globally market a product, where they only make 10, 20, 30 of them. It's such a difficult task to go after. - It is. that far into something if And if you really care And I feel like these Pugani are turning into - They are. - And you're really You're really buying into the You become part of the family. - You do. - Again, beautiful, beautiful car. I wanna turn to the other side, but first we gotta acknowledge Countach. - [Ali] This is a inspiration It's one of the final models But a 112 made only and - Do you think they modernized it in a way that truly respects and honors- - Actually, I do. because older Countach, the original one, is an incredibly iconic car. - Definitely drives better. I mean if you've seen I mean, you would definitely It's a four wheel drive again. - Gotcha. - Much easier to maintain, and, you know, much more practical. - At this point, it's with the lineup of cars at F1rst Motors, and having kind of a rare what makes the ultimate (upbeat music) When I first came in here, showroom had a very impressive lineup. But obviously the lineup more specific cars. Some of the regular sedans or How that transition happen? - In the beginning, we didn't really know which segment we're going to focus on. We had to find ourselves. First time we brought a Bugatti And when I saw that car come &quot;How am I gonna sell this car?&quot; You know, it's always the first one that's the most difficult. And as long as you are and to push, and you buy the right car, and you believe in yourself, well others will believe in you too. And that's what we try to do. You know, now we found our niche, and it's in the hypercar market. If you look at our motto, From day one, I mean, 300 plus Bugatti's in the showroom. We did it. We said we want to have all the LaFerrari Aperta's in the We brought them. Right now we have a black that's the rarest one, and the zero mileage battery replaced. So it's probably the last So you know, we always set ourselves targets in the showroom. The next step would be to vintage car industry. That's where the big money is and that's where the big collectors are. - And how was the - I mean the hypercars do get me excited, but you know, I see them every day. But when I, every now and again when I bring the classic cars, I do stuff and I do look at them. 'Cause you know, they do give and you know, especially the I mean you've seen some but we are thinking much bigger than that. We're talking about up to - Wow. I mean if you look at the it's the 300 SLR that I mean those are the targets We're not coming here for a business, we're coming here to make a difference. (upbeat music) - [Enes] 400 GT. - Yes, it's a 400 GT 2 + 2. I dunno if you've seen - Yes, I have. was actually established You know, they started off with tractors. - [Enes] Yes. - And this is the first So the first one was introduced in '63. This is a 1966 model, which At its time, it was one of 400 horsepowers and definitely I mean you wouldn't see this. - Yeah, this is definitely a rare car. And Lamborghini obviously - It does. used to be a big fan of Ferrari. - He did. - And he would collect a lot of Ferrari's, but he saw all these issues with Ferrari. So he wanted to address it, he wanted to help them or collaborate with them. And I believe he got a response when he brought And he goes, &quot;Screw that, - Yeah. - We kind of relate to that also. (Enes laughs) how we started, so. - Exactly in the car world, right? - That's what we love about it. - Yeah. I mean there's always a way to improve. You gotta know how to take feedback. That's a good advice in life. - Of course. - 300 SL. I'm gonna go to the other side. I want everybody to get I personally love this. - [Ali] Of course, this It's a 1958, 300 SL roadster. Around 1,800 of these were - I mean especially- - Age and condition. So this car is valued around and going up in value - [Enes] I don't see that - [Ali] I don't see it going down either. - Can you quickly give us Aston Martin. - This is a 1978 Aston Martin Vantage. At its time it was one of the - [Enes] And next door? - [Ali] It's a 974 Porsche - [Enes] It looks beautiful. And Testarossa obviously. - This is actually very interesting. This is the first generation Testarossa. And you notice because of the mirror and the way it's placed. So the first generation actually placed slightly And this is a 1986. - [Enes] And why we don't have - That's just how they were built. - How did they get away with that? - Well, uh, yeah... - Your like back in the day - Back in the day it was much different. - Okay, now I've been - Okay. - You did not have a lineup I love these Skylines. They're all right hand drive. - [Enes] This car is a Japanese icon. - [Ali] Exactly. - I see that you have two M-specs here. - Yes. And you have three more on the back. - Yes. one of my favorite cars ever. - The R34 is associated with car culture. And if you know Paul And what's interesting well Mine's was a tuning company, and Mine's no longer produces the kits for the M spec Nur or the upgrades. And only three of them 2 for the V-spec, one for the M-spec. So this is a one of one. What makes this car even these were produced between 1998 to 2002. And 25 years later, you know, they can be legalized in the USA. - Yes. - So you know, USA is the and once these are legalized in the USA, prices will jump. - [Enes] Prices gonna go up. - We want to broaden our audience for, you know, all sorts of cars. So we want anything to do with cars to be here associated with F1rst Motors. (upbeat music) - [Enes] These cars, the It's fascinating to take it all in. And there's no better way to or the car culture in Dubai until you take one of these cars to the street. And that's exactly what we did. Ali pulled one of his favorite and before you know it, - This is what it's all about, and putting them on the streets, and that's where you realize the value. (car engine revving) - It's funny because like - Yeah, I am. comes to this Porsche, you - To be honest with you, I mean, my favorite car manufacturer. But they just don't But they make beautiful and But the shape is timeless. Even if you look right now on the angles. - It's so beautiful. - [Enes] Why do you think Dubai has such a strong car culture? - Look in Dubai, I mean, You are not frowned The government's been really Now when it comes to clients, obviously, you know, people like to be and to show their money. And if you look at the most of the colors are pop colors. It's unlike Europe where you find colors- - [Enes] Lot of black and grays. - Exactly, because they in Europe to hide the wealth. But in Dubai it's different. You have security here, and you're definitely able to And that's why you have a billionaires coming into the city, 'cause they wanna live. (car engine rumbling) - [Cody] These shots are looking amazing. - Shots look good? All right, let's hammer it. (car engine revving) Whoo! So smooth. (car engine revving) (upbeat music) - But it grips the road so well, I'm not even on the driver's seat. I can feel it like it's - Enes you drive it on the way back. - Okay. - And that's exactly what we did. But we'll come back to that later. Our joyride in the 918 A cafe teamed around Porsches, and is a local spot where We grabbed some drinks, talked about our favorite and caught up on the The entire time I kept thinking about the experience of riding in a hypercar, and I wanted our team to So, Ali set up our team with an SF 90, and gave them an experience of a lifetime. - Let's have some fun. - Only in Dubai baby. - See you in the blink of an eye. - Hey Mom, I love you. - [Cody] Any last words? - I'll see you on the, I don't That's scary. (car engine revving) (Sandra screams) - Wow. (upbeat music) - [Cody] How was it? - Man, this is insane. This is not normal. - Wow. That is a thousand - [Diego] So? - He goes fast. He acts like it's not even anything. (upbeat music) - Oh my gosh, you're in for a ride. - [Cody] How was it? - Oh my God, that was so much fun. Who's next? - [Cody] That's me. Wassup, I'll see you on the other side. (car engine revving) (upbeat music) Woo hoo! That was fast, Dude. Feel that in your chest. (upbeat music) - Now on this side we each different history. Here you have the Lamborghini This is a Murcielago SV actually. And I would like to call it Why? Because this was before VW took over and did all the adjustments. - What's the price point? - Price would be around $650,000. - Got it. And this one I believe is the last naturally aspirated V 12 as well. - Yes, from the Aventador series. - Exactly. - Yes, total 350 units of these made. I'll be honest, it wasn't SVJ still has more aggression, And that's what people It's a show car. It has 800 horsepower. It's a single clutch and So not as dangerous as you think. But it definitely gives you the frills. - Now on the other side we have two very, very distinct cars. I gotta say I'm proud to see the one on the right hand side in F1rst Motors. - Yes. - Because you wanna tell people - Yeah, actually this is the and it is the Togg. It has two motors, 400 horsepower. And the interior has been done by- - Pininfarina. Which I was told by you, Which is pretty cool. car is like super cool. - It's amazing that their first car off the gate is pretty impressive. I believe they're around $50,000, right? - $50,000. - Super clean. I wanna say but they certainly take - Yeah, they do. - [Ali] Yeah, and it's quite simplistic, ranges 500 kilometers. - [Enes] It charges up in 30 minutes. - It does, it does, yes. And big congrats to Turkey. - [Ali] Big congrats, we're really proud. - [Enes] What can I say? - Great job done. And it's awesome to see - Yes it is. - All right, next door we have something I wanna say a little bit because I believe when it became such a successful - [Ali] It did. - And Ferrari didn't wanna Lamborghini's direction and right in the middle - Yeah, well this car was based on a lot of predecessing Ferrari's. It's a V12 engine, so 715 horsepower, and it's a five door sports car. - The proportions of the car is beautiful. I think they did a great job, and I can actually see new set of buyers to Ferrari. - It does. - I would say pretty I mean the car's been out for some time. Even we're facing difficulties, and you know, when we well you know, we buy them from the users, from the people who But everyone's scared from Ferrari and the consequences of what they will do and Ferrari is also find because the first batch will be a V12. And the later on batches will be V8s. So it will be the smaller engines. But obviously everybody wants a V12. - Of course, and that's where the loyal Ferrari customers get rewarded. - [Enes] Makes sense. All - Of course you can. - So they have a really sleek latch, and if you hold it long enough it opens the door. Cody, why don't you go inside? Actually the backseat You have seat adjusters. I like that they just - [Ali] Yeah. Compared to a lot of, I mean I wouldn't wanna say SUVs, but it's got pretty comfortable back. - And Cody of course we gotta show the dashboard to everyone. It looks really nice. I honestly can see myself Because it's like you still have the practicality of a regular car. And you're not afraid to drive. It's not super low. And I'm sure it drives - Yes, I mean Ferrari decided to go for the more elegant look and discreet. - Yes. There we go. Just like that. - [Cody] I like the suicide doors. - [Enes] Yeah, and what's - [Ali] Well that the market price would be around $1.1 million. - Okay, obviously we have We are in Dubai, you gotta have some SUVs in your inventory, 4x4. There's a few other but what's behind you is And I know personally you really like it. - Yes, this is based on the GT2 RS. It's a GT2 RS Clubsport, and This Clubsport actually you'll see how lightweight it is. - I want everybody see. First off, these are not even real glass. - That's plexiglass. And this is a- have a seat here. - [Ali] Yeah. this is It's a track focused car, and if you see the car, as much weight as it can be. - And I'm sure it performs incredible. - Amazingly, yes, Porsche - What's next? - This is a 488 Challenge car by Ferrari. Again it is like the And if you buy this car, again, it unlocks potential with the Ferrari's. - It's almost like a little flirting game. - That's what they do. to warm yourself up to the brand, and you're showing that you're willing to invest and commit to them. And hope in return that you get on that list and kind of work your way up. - Exactly, and this is one of those cars. Okay, this is one of So only three of these cars And we actually had two of them. This is the last one remaining for sure. - Literally we went downstairs and Ali was like, yeah there are only three of 'em in the world. We have two of them. It's impressive to have all and it only intrigues us to ask, how do you source these cars? (upbeat music) - We know a few collectors out there and we work with all kinds of people. You know, as long as you're as long as you have a good eye for quality and you know what to buy, as long as you're educated you will buy the right car. I mean we do extensive to make sure that they're and everything with us is - So when I look at the and in a way I ask myself how all these cars in such good condition. I know you're very picky when it comes to placing a car in the showroom. Tell us about the process each car goes through from the moment you buy it, and to the moment they're positioned perfectly in the showroom. - Well definitely the important to us who we're buying it from, the condition at the beginning. We don't do makeovers on the cars. The cars are in perfect you know obviously we and we do send all of these to have them maintained over there. We don't do them in third party garages or anything like that. Everything is done through - Recently I saw a couple I should buy this car because I know this is I felt like that about SLR. I felt like that about new Ford GT. And I'm talking about a few years ago. The thing that held me back that once these cars are outta can be so surprising and so expensive. What do you tell to people but that's the hold back for them? - Yeah, it's interesting that's actually a high maintenance car, and I always advise if you buy something, always buy the best version of it or buy the more limited version of it. Condition is very important on the car. Spec, rarity of the color. Color can play an important factor. And which brand do you go with? Cars that have done well? I mean you always have to things that have become a thing Those are the stuff that (upbeat music) - [Enes] The record book of and it's impressive that with selecting and maintaining these cars. It's like they're (upbeat music) - Now Enes, I have - For me? - Yeah, we have to sell you - Oh yeah? Okay. - So I do understand that- where this is going now. - You know you need something to match your status over here, okay? - Okay. - Your advertising luxury, you need to be associated - Okay. - And we have the perfect GLS Maybach, pretty And I know you're a busy meetings and so on. Well you know the most important factor is always understanding your customers. And their needs. That's And I mean we know each - [Enes] Yeah. - [Ali] So I think this will - All right, why don't we go in? This is a beautiful spec by the way. Now you found my soft spot, Ali. What can I say? I am on the market to because I never drive. What do you think of Maybach's? This new generation - Well I mean for the price it's either this or but this one actually is more spacious, more practical, more durable also. And you have more features inside the car. - Exactly, and I feel like with they committed the two seatings. - Actually the center if you want to see. So you do kind of have your workstation? - Yep. Oops. How? There we go. - Yeah. - Yeah, you did it better than me. - There we go, because I'm natural, because I'm on the market I'm excited for these cars. - There we go. you could have your Your workstation, you have your You actually do have a If you wanna- - Store your drinks or. - No, this is really nice. If you were to recommend one, would you say I should get a GLS SUV or should I get the sedan? - Personally, I prefer the SUV more. It's more spacious. You sit high up. I mean with the sedan between an S-Class or an S Maybach. - Well we live in Los Angeles, and sometimes there's understated and kind of undercover. - Yeah, yeah. - That's one of the reasons because I think from a it's a phenomenal value. The backseat are insane, but then on the exterior you and only the car enthusiast because it's about a foot longer actually. Thank you for this. And one day, one day, - One more thing, this - [Enes] Yes, I know. - [Ali] I don't think - [Enes] I won't be dancing, - Beautiful car. - All right, let's continue, And speaking of Mercedes, that you don't really want to talk about, and I tried off camera. - Yeah. - Tell or explain to our to talk about this car so much. - Well I'll tell you what It's actually a one of one. And the ex-owner of this car was a high profile client of Mercedes. And of course you know to acquire the car. I mean there's no stopping us. - So the car's here now on the covers, and it will be going to - Essentially the reason why the spec is once he pulls the and you can probably track the owner. - Exactly. And then he's gonna And we definitely protect - And I also gotta say it's crazy to me that you have two A car that's so sought after - But very different. - Now we can't talk about amazing legacy and heritage. - Sure. - And I can't think of a better lineup to show some amazing Ferrari's. (upbeat music) We gotta talk about the 812. - So the Competizione Aperta You know, to qualify for the to have at least 40 to $50 million worth of Ferrari's in your collection to be able to qualify for this. - Not couple Ferrari's 40 to- - Yeah, 40 to $50 million. And not only that, once if you do sell the car, you So you wouldn't be able to And to have such a car here, obviously, you know the ex-owner had to be rewarded. Pretty- - Yeah, tremendously to be Would you like to? - All right, should we start this? (car engine revs) Ferrari always sounds so good. - Beautiful, yeah. Can we get a rev? (car engine revs) I kind of regretted that. Wow, I think we're good. - So if you look at the back, this one's actually different. It's got a wider hatch. - Oh wow. - [Ali] And this is the roof - It's a hard top? - [Enes] Amazing, beautiful car. - [Ali] I mean what first of all, total 399 Enzo's made. 30 yellow pieces were made. It's actually 700 kilometers So the condition of the car, if you actually look at the inside, and the way the car's being preserved- - Brand new. And that's why I had said earlier on, this car has doubled in - [Enes] Incredible. Wow. - So what makes our LaFerrari's that we don't just bring any car here. All of our cars are battery replaced, warranty extended. So the reason it's perfect condition vehicles over here, we don't just sell vehicles. We want our customers to be - And basically not worry about Not everybody's super in tune with knowing all these intricacies of these cars. And I'm assuming one of the look, if it's in my showroom If there's any red flags, we sort it out, so you know exactly what - If we buy a car ourselves, we would like to enjoy it fully. Same should be applicable for the clients. - Or have a hesitation owning the car and always thinking that - Exactly. - Or what did they hide from me? - Exactly. - Okay, great. Now if I would have the money, I would definitely get one of these. To people out there who we've done about a year, one of the properties on our main channel, I got a chance to drive a Ford GT for a couple hundred miles. And I love this car. I know it's an American car, but it's a V6 3.5-liter I believe, right? - Yeah. (car engine revving) It is so fun to drive. (car engine revving) And it has a good analog feel to it. - And it's a V6 twin turbo, which is quite interesting 'Cause American cars are big valves, high fuel consumption. - [Enes] It's almost like - It is, it is. - [Ali] And you can see. - And do you feel like as much as they should have? - Some cars take time to appreciate, if you look at the predecessor to this, it's already gone up So you have to give this car time, because it's just come off the production. - Gotcha. We can't come to this corner and not talk about Speedtail. - [Ali] Speed tail, of course. - [Enes] It is gonna age so beautifully. And I feel like the design of it is gonna remain iconic forever. - Now this is the successor As you know McLaren F1 did really well. It's gone up almost 50 times in value. And the look is pretty futuristic. This car has around 1050 horsepower, and if you look at the inside, I would like you to sit - Okay. Cody, come with me. Definitely not an easy car to get in. Being in the center of the car is awesome. - Exactly. - Makes perfect sense. Kind of feels like a jet plane. - Cockpit, yeah. And now I see you have the screens here. Cody, can we get a closeup? - [Ali] Yeah, those are the mirrors. - Those are the side mirrors. - [Cody] Ah, that's pretty smart. - [Enes] Beautiful car, what's - [Ali] Market value would 106 units made. - I don't sound ridiculous - It has been understated at the moment, and the reason is no So I think once you do get it should be- - Then people are gonna - Yes. towards the end. GT3 RS. - These are so, so popular right now. - [Ali] Pretty popular, yes. - And I wanna speak for the You have three Ducati Lamborghini bikes, and two Brabus bikes here. What's the story? - Well, I mean first Brabus is currently going crazy right now. So they were only doing Mercedes before, but now they decided to do everything. So now they're tuning - Boats. you know, they're doing This is the Diavel. It's a Ducati Lamborghini collaboration, you know, limited to 630 pieces. Most people actually buy for home interiors. I'm sure you will see a few. - [Enes] They're obviously and they can fit into many - Interestingly, I haven't seen anyone buy this bike for function purposes. I mean everyone's bought And not only that, an when this bike was it was actually priced at around $30,000. Today it's at $120,000. - So very good investment if - I mean I have to give to the seats, the patterns, It does look very much an own brand collaboration between the two brands. Now, from this angle, I see a Formula one car. - [Enes] What's the story there? - As you may notice, before the story behind this is with us having their name up there. You know, because of our success, and the noise we've made worldwide or the attention we've been attracting. What we decided to do is replace it with something even better, and we wrote &quot;The best or nothing.&quot; And that's what we look So whatever you see over I hope you're gonna see much more. - I hope so too. And just walking around This place is beautiful. Now that we concluded our tour, let's talk about the selection. - Sure. My daily choice would be SF90. It's a beautiful car, understated, and relatively comfortable. For classic, I'm gonna go 300 SL. - [Ali] Yeah. - Sometimes you just that's elegant, that's beautiful, and you just wanna cruise around. And I think 300 SL is perfect for that. - [Ali] Yes, it is. - Now for the hypercar, I Something about that and represents the pinnacle Obviously it looks beautiful, but all of its qualities combined makes it one of the coolest And that's my hypercar choice. How good do you think I did? - Well I will tell you, I You asked me to pick my picks. You've chosen exactly because I drive an SF90 for a daily drive. (Enes laughs) And the classics over there, I mean I would definitely Definitely an iconic car. And definitely my favorite hypercar, I mean it's definitely the 300+. - I feel honored. I feel - Yes, you did a good job. you know? - Well this has been awesome. Ali, thank you so much and we are excited to We're excited to be sharing and from the first video to now, I'm sure everybody enjoyed it and they will enjoy this video as well. - Yeah, we are excited, and we are glad to have you You are with us from the beginning, and, you know, you've always and we really appreciate that. Thank you. (upbeat music) And what a day it was seeing these cars, getting a chance to drive them, and getting a behind the scenes look of a complex business like this with cars, people, and culture. All in a country where it leaves us in awe will only grow from here. (upbeat music) Ali, looking at this seeing the success you guys accomplished, I'm wondering if you guys showroom, I don't know, are there any plans where you guys go global? - Yeah, obviously we are looking to expand in the near future, but we're not even done over here. I mean, in the hypercar market we've accomplished everything. Noticing the amount of success and trust and credibility we've in such a short amount of time. We believe we are ready One sense of pride for me it's that 80 families take And that's what's important, you know? - [Enes] It's inspiring cares about their team, and customers, and affecting their It's something we also admire, and aspire for with our videos. We want our viewers to feel We want to inform them and let them know that they can do it too. And this is the approach and it's impressive the the way they treat their They really care about possible to any car lover. Even if it includes getting (car engine revving) - That is- - And you feel the engine, yeah? You feel the power. - That is insane. (car engine revving) (upbeat music) - [Enes] I get why this I get it. (car engine revving) This is sick. I see why people love this car. I vouch for 'em. This is insane. (car engine revving) This whole experience has been incredible and I'm so excited to see But before we wrap things up, Ali had one more thing to share with me. - Now, Enes, I do have a gift for you from our social media team. - It's a product that we have. - Oh that's a big box. - As you know, we are expanding Now, this is one of the our social media team- - Has been able to produce. - Oh that's the Ford GT I drove. - This is the car you drove. - So this is actually an illustration. We do give illustrations. - Oh you guys have my - Yes, with all the cars. Oh this is awesome. - And one certificate in there. - Oh my God. - Yeah, that's signed by myself. - This is so cool. Thank you so much. - Thank you guys. - This is amazing. I can't wait to hang this at our office. I feel like as I get and the unique stories is becoming more valuable - Exactly. - The money, the views all that, I don't wanna say irrelevant, but it's like it kind of fades away. This is like, what a way to mark a memory. (gentle music) All right everyone, and Hope you'll enjoy this episode. Big thanks to Ali and for making this tour possible. And as always, you can find in the description of this video. Also, let us know in the to do more tours like this in the future. And lastly, if you enjoyed our tour, give us a like, subscribe, and we'll see you guys on the next one. (gentle music)