(upbeat music) - Today, we're gonna look at these things. These are very cheap filter coffee makers. How cheap? Well, this one cost me PS30 and this one is very And that's, I think, that makes coffee. For PS30 in the UK, you can buy something like a Hario Drip Decanter. This, this thing costs the same as that. And this makes great coffee. But historically we've said that these don't make great coffee. Now this doesn't heat water. This is just a plastic V60 and nothing special here. But we can we make great coffee with it. But why can't we make So the idea is we're gonna and understand how it works, why it sucks, and what we can do to overcome the ways in which it is flawed, to maybe Because I'm not saying and buy a cheap coffee maker to get good coffee out of it. I think it's worth investing that will last a lifetime. And frankly, that's not this. But if you can't afford anything else, but you want better coffee else's set up and you want well, let's find out what we can do to make the best coffee that we have. So how do they work? If you open these up and you look inside, and you open up from the base and they don't really want you to do that. But if you do, make sure You'll see just how So you put your water in and it feeds through a one-way of the unit. And that's where the heating element is. And that element actually that this glass carafe sits on. So unfortunately you can't have 'cause it's the same heating element. Now, as the water passes through a tube, surrounded by the element, it gets hot. Some of it will boil and the water up the tube, over the coffee, and just drop it out of onto the coffee below. And that's basically it. And it'll do it till it runs out of water. Inside here you've got on the element to control it doesn't really overheat. So that's it. You've got a heating some tubes, and a bit of plastic, but that's what you get for your money. And it makes coffee, But when you make coffee, Let's make some coffee. Now this one here has a nice I think that's quite nice. It's 'cause this is Let's just throw some Now we're brewing 30g to 500ml. I'm not gonna use the lines because they make no sense. There are two sets of numbers, one for large cups and one for small cups. And a small cup currently Just think about that for That is two and a half Now that is a small cup of coffee, but really who is endorsing this? If you put a temperature then you'll see the first because it's sort of the other already because of the nature of the way that the tubes fill. So that first water out is kind of cold, and it slowly over the course of the brew gets hotter and hotter and hotter and hotter. (coffee brewing) Now, generally, as soon as you brew this, you want to turn these off. Don't leave the hot plate running. That will cook your coffee. It will taste gross. How is it? It could be worse. Honestly, like it's not that bad. It's nice coffee. It's nice water. It's ground on a grinder more than this. So, you know, we've set it up for success, but it's not, I would say, by any stretch. I think you can taste You know what I mean? And it brewed for a long time, Celsius, and didn't really of the brew. Now, if you've followed you'll know that I'm actually pro brewing with boiling water. So what I wanna fix about this The start is too cold. Most of the brew is too and you can taste a kind of It tastes a bit under-extracted, could be better. Now this thing, the way that Once it's on, it's on. It's got no kind of bloom function, and that's kind of a shame. So that's maybe something And then if we look at the coffee bed, you can see that we had dug in the middle of this. The water has come out and just burrowed a hole in the coffee. So that's not gonna do wonders So I'm gonna wonder, is there something we can do about that? While I have this open, of technology in this thing, and in this thing too that Because you've got a hot plate, what they do is they put and a little stopper so that this cone, when the jug isn't there, it closes the stopper and it doesn't drip. Because what you don't want have this drip onto a very kind of do the whole sticky thing on there. So they got a little steep and And I wonder if that's potentially manipulate to So the first thing we're gonna deal with is brew temperature. And the fix for this is and pretty well talked about. You may have come across it before. We're gonna fill the tank with hot water. Now, I don't know for in this will do with boiling water inside. I don't worry from a safety perspective, but there might be some funny tastes. I don't really know. I think everyone uses BPA-free stuff in sort of commercial food So we should be okay. What I'll also do is stick 'cause there's another that I'm kind of curious about. But let's brew with some of this thing, otherwise identical setup. And I'll keep this cup to the next cup. So water in, into the (coffee brewing) That was a very interesting brew. It held in the sort of mid to low 90s at the sort of the top of the which is pretty great Certainly, that's a nice I don't know how this works in comparison to which will be losing heat So a typical V60 at home will quite early on, and then it This is staying hotter for longer. That's interesting. Definitely more extracted. Getting toward the upper from an extraction perspective, actually. If you look at what it it was an even more It's definitely kind of of this thing, and I from an extraction perspective, One more slightly silly but I'm kind of curious, I've got 450 grams of hot water here, instead of 500, and 50 grams of ice. And towards the end of the the ice in right under the hot water spout to see if I can bring just a little bit towards the end. Will that help? I don't know. Let's find out. I know it's ridiculous, Now, that was definitely interesting. Though I probably timed my ice badly. We had a bit of a U-shaped where the bottom of the the 90s, which is fine And then we kind of held And then I put the last piece into like the 70, and then towards the end. That's pretty good. That's definitely interesting. Okay. Maybe there's something there. Okay, let's put that in the maybe pile of kind of interesting that we tested today, and move on. So now let's talk about the bloom. It's a thing that we do in We pour a little water on, let it steep. Let the kind of coffee degas a little bit before we pour to get a higher extraction and a little bit more evenness This doesn't do that. Once you turn this on, it So there's no option for that. And fancier brewers do have bloom options built in, either customizable ones, or just kind of part will do a delivery of water, a Obviously, we could do this manually. I could turn the machine for a period of time, and I was looking for a slightly to that, so I got one of these. It is a pretty generic smart plug. So this connects to the internet, and can be controlled by the internet. What I did was I connected &quot;If this, then that,&quot; one, my phone's voice assistant, and a service called Apaleo, which lets me do kind of logic things, lets me lets me build timers essentially. It's not the greatest route. I'm sure someone much smarter a much simpler way of doing this, but I just wanted to kind So here's how it works. I would talk to my phone and it would turn on the brewer. I could have the on switch on, but the plug itself would be off. And it would turn on for about 35 seconds. That should be enough time for Now I'm gonna put hot water which is maybe not the easiest thing, but we're automating a process here. So just go with me. After 35 seconds, it switches Now I know we want to but when I turn this back on, water won't immediately be delivered. There'll be a little bit of a gap again. And after 20 seconds blooming, on and brews, and it five minutes from that sort of trigger. Having set this all up a small downside is that when you cut the power to the machine, it just turns off. It flicks off. Now I could probably just and that would work fine, a bit hacky. But I just wanted to proof Like I just wanted to see, So, let's do what we did without the ice, but everything else with the bloom phase, but actually with one more twist. I said that there's a steep What I'm gonna do is do without the carafe in place. And at the end of the bloom phase, I'm gonna put the carafe in. That means that we'll have which should help with and then it should start to brew. And then we should have Hey Siri, brew some coffee. - Okay. (coffee brewing) - Drain you out, and it should Now, just as this finishes up, obviously, if you were you're overriding a safety mechanism and even though my routine being switched off at that doesn't always make it 100% safe. So just, if you're gonna be aware that there are safety features that exist for a reason. These hot plates get incredibly hot, hot enough to boil water. So leaving them on hot with coffee on top or not, frankly. Interesting, I think from, and here to here, we've had which means an increase in extraction. And with the same grind and the same-ish temperatures of this one, increased increased evenness of extraction too and I think the bloom probably helped. But for all our improvements, I look at the bed of coffee there's been a bit of violence, right? Like it's a flatter bed That seems to be a benefit for sure, that kind of layer of water on top, perhaps buffering the water I think I have a solution, that might help a little I'll be testing it for the first time and you'll be joining me as well. And that will come after a short which is Squarespace. If you need a website or a checking out Squarespace. Squarespace makes it so easy for a website to having a website. Start with one of their pick something that fits your need. It might be your portfolio. It might be your cafe. It might be your writing, Fill it with your words, your images, your style, your feeling. You can tweak, adjust so easily. And once it's running, it every device. That's all taken care of. There's nothing to patch, It's easy. Don't take my word for it. Click the link down below and just build something. And when you're ready to launch, use code, JAMESHOFFMANN for 10% off Thank you to Squarespace So here's what I've been thinking about. The water comes out of this and it's very simple. It's very simply made. It's just a kind of a with a bit of pressure, but And I don't know if it's something like this with a spray head. 3D printing isn't great you'd want to use with sort of hot water, and that's what most So that doesn't seem And then I was thinking about this, it's called a Melodrip. Now it's been around for quite a while. And the idea here is that pour over brewing, and you'd and it would distribute the water into a kind of a shower But I didn't want to just sort of do that, the whole brew. That just doesn't seem fun or practical. And so that was kind of out. Then I was thinking about cold brewers, right? Like Peter McKinnon made about his the other day. And it reminded me that a piece of paper on top, as 'cause the paper helps So I wondered if you could do that. But then I thought let's use less paper. Let's try and put a metal essentially to buffer the coming in, right. It should sit over the the whole time. It should help mitigate But I don't know. There is just one way to find out. (coffee brewing) Now if we look inside here, but it's not gone exactly to plan. The disc has sort of in just into the top layer. But overall, I just don't Now the obvious downside is So maybe paper is a better solution from a practical perspective, would like float around or float away. But it's worth testing. Having had a taste, I think It feels like a big drop in extraction and a big drop in evenness. It's not necessarily that sour. It just feels like it somehow doing it this way. Not a success. I feel like there's some sort of idea here in distributing water that's practical, easy, obvious, you know, not gonna add a ton of If you have any ideas, let me know down in the comments below. I'd be really interested to hear. Now, I feel like we've come a long way. We've done a bunch of and slowly we're putting it all together. What I'm gonna do now is with what we've learned from this thing. And at the same time, I'll coffee, same dose, same grind, all of those kind of that I typically use, if you don't know about that. And then I will taste them to see if there's an obvious difference, to see if this is getting close to a V60, if it's really close, if it's miles away. I just want a kind of point things up and see how far we've come. And to complete a triangle an untweaked brew from this thing, which brews the same as this thing really, as a kind of do nothing, what'd you get, do lots of stuff, what'd you get, V60 what'd you get, but blind. So we need to let this cool a little bit, and we'll clean up this, and then Michael will come so I don't know which is which. So this one here I would guess brewer that we didn't do anything to. It just tastes empty and a bit hollow. And like it has that and it's not bad, actually. It tasted, the coffee It's just not that good. Next up, I would say is probably this one. This one is a big jump in extraction. It is much sweeter than this one here. It's much more complex. It's a really quite nice cup of coffee. It's not as good as this cup of coffee. It actually tastes slightly less extracted than this one here, but it I don't like using the but it's got a bit more clarity to it. It's nice and sweet. I wish it actually had a like this one, but this one of this one here. But this is the winner. So I'm gonna say this is the V60. I'm gonna say this is and I'm gonna say, this is the unmodified Russell Hobbs thing. And it is, it's the Russell Hobbs. Hopefully, this is the Melitta. It is the Melitta. That's good. Which means this is the V60 as predicted. And I would say, this is I'm kind of into this. I'm kind of, yeah, I think it's tasty. I think it's good. I think there's a difference here, in that little bit more clarity. The fight is evenness, right, like water delivery in these things sucks and finding a way to overcome that I'm frustrated I but it's one I'll keep thinking about and trying to come up with Leave me a comment if But I guess the learnings If you're gonna take and you don't have to do them all, right. If you had to just sort I would definitely 100% in the brew chamber. That's the biggest single gain The second thing I would do would be the sort of steep and release, right? If you have a cheap brewer use the steep and release function. It's definitely an improvement I think that's definitely a win. Three would be a bloom phase, right? And you could sort of skip by having a steep phase and after say 30 seconds or when Having it go on, off, on And then lastly, if you wanna I think it's kind of interesting. It's a lot of extra work but it's kind of fun. It's interesting. It has an impact I didn't But yeah, if you try that, what your results are like. I think for darker roasts, that way, as a way to sort towards the end of the brew, where you're likely to very bitter notes, but that's the deal with cheap coffee makers. That's how you can get some And again, I'd love to hear from you down in the comments below. Let me know if you try it, Let me know if you have some failures too. But for now, I'll say thank and I hope you have a great day.