It's easy to be a Then Putin has There's Ukraine - that's the real front, of his personal struggle He thinks he's got support This war has shown a colossal number of people Oleg Radzinsky, Soviet dissident and later financier, The latest hero of Oleg, I realise that you and I meeting That's one of the main reasons But perhaps there are some other What can I say about other reasons why I'm here... You know, like everything in my life, I've even written about the role of chance Yes. I have been living here for three years. One of the many was purely medical. I needed to have surgery and to perform that surgery The famous St. Anna clinic I came here with my wife both grown up, two out of our four, and we checked into This is where we checked in, right here. It was late at night early, probably at about 5:30, and I saw this lake. I saw these mountains, which are now, And I went straight to my wife to much later than I do. I woke her up and made From six until nine, without saying a word to each other, At nine o'clock, my wife Lena said to me: You said that you don't consider But in any case, in Russia, 'I'm a political opponent' But if we look at the events many are joining the film directors, It's enough to say and we don't want Ukrainians and that's enough to become Well, I, for technical reasons, cannot be a part because I am not That's the main thing. That means I don't have the right to consider That's the first reason. Secondly, I would consider myself, a Russian citizen, a member of the Russian opposition, But since I don't live in Russia, I simply don't have the right to include myself And I don't have Russian citizens who live in I just don't feel that I Because I'm not in the same For example, today is the birthday of Alexei Now, he had that right. And he earned it by his work And he returned to Russia I think, he had it, and he because he remained Is it still possible to engage in Well, you can engage There's just a certain price or not willing to pay That's it. If you want to be in North Korea, Iran there's a certain price, The most striking are Alexei Navalny, We see that there are people You don't see this as not offensive, I won't put it Is it naive to think then all of a sudden this beautiful Russia of the future Well, you know, I'll tell you this: in 1982, under article 70, part one, for - this is a particularly a particularly dangerous There was a section from articles 64 to 73. This was the so-called These were particularly dangerous Article 70 was one of them. OK, so there I was, sitting in Lefortovo prison, that in nine years' time. And by 1991 it was already gone. So we don't know what windows of opportunity will open, So it's hard for me to say anything about their enthusiasm, Maybe it's naive, maybe it's I even wrote an essay in the magazine the essay was called 'Non-Belonging' - the best thing, of course, is to live as though but at the same time prepare for Because if you live in the or obsess over the past, I wanted to ask you Yes, go ahead. Yes, in 'Random Lives', that the real warriors like Alexander Podrabinek because they fought for your And you wrote that 'I was fighting And yet you served time, So, that's not entirely true, you were probably fighting And what are you Yes, yes. But, first of all, it has to be non-fiction book It's a biographical book a certain period in my life. The lead-up to my Yes. Well, look, I was very young. And certainly, a big part of of my human rights work dictated by the poisoning influence Because Russian literature it isn't just something that, you know, or don't forget about, it is literature it requires all of your time, it requires you Russian literature demands it doesn't leave you with if you don't look at it simply as black symbols printed Along with Russian culture it has an inherently Everything is seen as a struggle And this struggle, good versus evil, everything is ... It's not just a struggle for some economic No, no, it's always a struggle it's always saying, and here's what side you're on, And that's the way I was raised, back then, there was this cliche: 'family of I grew up in a family and I had this very strong urge That I'm doing something that puts me on the side of There's Alexander Solzhenitsyn, Well, you know... And I was very happy when I remember, I was so this is the confirmation I'm right here with them. Yes, I remember, it was a moment Do you feel like a dissident now, an important dissident? No, no, of course not. are sitting in Russian prisons, that's where they are, It's easy to be a dissident here. Oleg, you said that you don't consider because dissidents are sitting But nevertheless you have a method for ending the Russian talk about today in great detail. In my essay I've suggested specific steps in order to exacerbate by relying on the local population, and then a second Then Putin has three fronts. There's Ukraine - that's the real front, of his personal struggle He thinks he's got The goal of this strategy I don't see any other except by exploiting, or to use another regional conflicts This is a dangerous strategy. I mean, I provide warnings at It's a dangerous strategy. It can certainly lead, hopefully not to a civil war, of civil disobedience including repression But this is entirely up to Russian citizens, only they can such a price and risk of the country to bring down the totalitarian dictatorship and in this case, as I have I have simply described this strategy, but I do not recommend Oleg, who... actually, has anyone among your been negative or towards your strategy to And what kind of arguments, counterarguments if they criticised you? Yes, I was judged, stigmatised and, 'hit in the wallet' - Yeah, there were such people. There were, of course, close who persuaded me not to publish Their arguments first of all, that It really could, lead to And most of the Russian opposition Most of the Russian under any circumstances That was the first argument. The second argument is: for those people who would Because those in power I mean, they generally don't but here they realise Aren't you afraid of blood? Of course, I would like to avoid like any normal person would. I just want to... everything I'm doing, question to Russians: I was going to say: what should one choose? It's understandable, which most probably would lead to bloodshed - Only the Russians I'm not the one, If they decide that it's a price they're willing to pay, right? Like, the Bolsheviks decided that they were willing to pay, which later Joseph Stalin spent some and he did put it together, And does Switzerland of its political institutions or the way in which society interacts something that someday, but hopefully could be transferred to Russia? Or something you would again, as an outsider, I'd like to take basically to any country, including Russia, first of all, it's the only the most important issues Secondly, the chairman the so-called president, serves So there is an absolutely So people don't have time People don't know I mean, Putin is a name that they've heard it, he's been around long enough, And thirdly, real independence and in managing their budgets, which, things for federalism, when regions manage rather than passing them on to the central power, to subsidise them. There is a general rationality and love for negotiations, rather than And, of course, the Switzerland is a neutral country, And that's despite the fact that, This is a country that's home to four main populations: the Francophones - you live in a Francophone region. here, where I live, and then there are cantons Not far from here, And there are also cantons Here are four seemingly They're all Swiss, And their loyalty And so if something like that then, hopefully, This can scale up. Of course, it's understandable people is not a country but the basic principles could be taken, of course, including the main principle The history of 20th that in most cases the rulers or they lost power which can also be called ruling until death. Yes. So it turns out like this is the only system for governing Russia. At least, In Russia, where they didn't allow And if it did in some place in Russia it still turned out to have and then it needed to What do you think, why, after Putin, would we get anything I think there's a large proportion of people in the Russian opposition who have in the Russian opposition, the Russian intelligentsia in general They had wonderful, civic ideas about The problem was that the majority of Russian civil society wanted to write but they didn't want to and work in ministries, because that, And democracy begins Now, if you don't have proper not have a proper democracy. But now the following has happened: never before, in as far as I know, has there ever been such a strong volunteer that deals with This war has shown a huge number of people care about the fate of not but also the citizens of a neighbouring And so if these people What's the problem with that? The problem is this. In order to implement any reforms, you have to Bureaucracy is conservative and So the intellingensia start off by and then they just start what's That's what we've despite your youth, you've in the Russian Federation, Because most of the people didn't work in the administration, and what would have been very good is if among those who are now called 'relocatees' someone could organise training, that would teach them what's called institution building, institution maintenance, and maintaining the administration Maybe autocracy is just what Russia likes, and that's why For example, remember, of totalitarianism, what people when Stalin died, 5 his funeral. There was a crush. I don't know how it is, why, to show yourself, I mean, maybe it's some maybe it's just that But listen, the fact that it is that way, doesn't mean And just because that's the way this is the true Russia And that's why all you can do is try to make it to make it into humane, less autocratic, and less imperialistic. Europe lived under