Welcome to another Mathologer video. Are you over there. It first made the news 400 years Torricelli into a mathematical superstar. Why? property. Suppose you've got 8 litres of paint. it :) In other words, the volume of the horn is 8 of this shape is - infinite (ominous voice). possible? Also, when we fill the horn with our 8 the inside surface, right? In other words, when to paint an infinite surface area with a finite Sink in, um, no pun intended. Ok, the pun was area with a finite amount of paint. This weirdness Actually, I just discovered a second painter's There are lots of YouTube videos dedicated to to actually taming the volume and the surface area YouTubers take. The first approach consists in problem, derivatives, integrals, the works. The hands, proclaiming repeatedly how amazing all this at all, possibly because our YouTuber thinks that is the paradox in all that? Well, it turns out get the volume and area of the horn under control, trick that a mathematical monk came up with 700 almost certainly be familiar with. Pretty strange scared of calculus since there is a much simpler Why do you think that is? Leave your answers to so today's mission is to give you a complete paradox. Even if you're a pro and have one in a cupboard, stick around for I've got some up for you. Here we go. How is this particular the part of the curve to the right of x = 1. The resulting surface of revolution is our horn. spinning the part of our 1/x curve to the left second horn for later. Now, let's first figure last two videos also dealt with some magical completes this first Mathologer trilogy in the these two earlier videos you may be able to guess x = 2 AND at x = 2 1/x takes on the value 1/2. 1 unit wide and so its area is base times height, its height. At 3 we've got 1/3. Extend to another to the height 1/3. And so on. This means that the rectangle areas. 1/2 plus 1/3 plus 1/4 plus 1/5, recognise this infinite sum. Except for a harmonic series which every math demon knows adds use that 700 year old trick twice and the first equal to infinity. In any case, for now just trust now since the horn encloses the staircase as it horn must also be equal to infinity. Easy, right? staircase has infinite area. But now since it is clear that the surface area of the horn getting there. Now what about the volume? That's calculate the precise volume. We just have to how can we see that the volume is finite? Here's the left. There. Move the whole staircase one unit 1/x, but now the staircase contains the curve, Now spin the first rectangle, well, really that's creates a cylinder. What's the volume of this is circular base times height, pi r squared right? Now what's the radius and what's the is the radius. And so the volume of the cylinder rectangle into a cylinder. We calculate its volume the radius and so we just have to replace the 1 the volume of this infinite funnel of cylinders is completely contained in the funnel of cylinders that of the funnel. This means that if we can show then it follows that the volume of the horn is then the volume of the funnel is finite, and so Okay, so showing that the surface area is infinite that the sums of these two pretty infinite series thing we need to prove both facts is that 700 actually we also need this second fact here. reciprocals of the powers of 2 is equal to right? Why is that true again? Well, here is a remember this for later 1+1/2+1/4 and so on is the harmonic series at the top adds to infinity. did I mention this before ( :)?, 700 years old Bear with me if all this sounds very familiar. Oresme also came up with a 2d version of our take the visual geometric infinite sum from just like this. Then obviously the interior of this its bounding curves are clearly of infinite of our horn and is paradoxical for the same to comprehend. Unfortunately for Oresme, nobody made headlines and so Torricelli didn't have to also mention that Oresme also came up with the this is the guy to blame. Anyway, back to our Let's do this on algebra autopilot accompanied sum is greater or equal to the bottom sum. Now we where the magic happens. There, infinitely many many 1/2s is infinity. Okay, so far so good. Well, point. But here is something you've probably not second series in exactly the same way, very nifty. highlighting the reciprocals of the powers of 2. squares of the powers of 2. Make a copy. Earlier we'll go the other way. Earlier the terms at the corresponding ones at the bottom. Now it is sure that this is really the case. There 1/9th and so on. And that means that the top sum is terms in the coloured boxes. Aha, so what we've as we all remember, is equal to 2. But then if Well, okay, so we know that the volume really all we need to be sure that our horn is as the volume is exactly 8 and that I can also show I still owe you that proof. Actually, this is not the discoverer of the horn and this proof is the horn that we saved for later? We'll use it has been extended by a cylinder at the bottom as a solid shape we can think of this extended the y-axis as the common axis. There, that's And another one. Another Another. A lot of them. thin cylinder without the circular caps, so just that's just the circumference of the base circle if the radius is r- then the circumference is value of 1/x at r. And so the height is 1/r. All the area is 2 pi. But of course the same is the calculation, same result. That's SUPER cool. All area 2 pi. Okay, now to figure out the volume, 2pi here. So the disk has the same area as the of the thin cylinders you get this stack of disks. both having the same area 2 pi. The thin cylinders time the disks combine into our stack. Therefore be the same. And so what's that volume? Well, the height 1. And so the volume is base area times of reasoning don't you think? Predates Newton and extended to the famous method of shells as part of That's what we are really interested in. Well, of the extended horn minus the volume of the the volume of the orange cylinder is equal minus pi which is pi. But didn't I also say I lied, the volume is pi :) Well, I've long animation of an 8 turning into an infinity perfect opportunity to sneak this animation if we stretch our horn vertically by a factor 8 - and infinite surface area. And so I Okay, so we proved that our horn is really as of course, now that you know that this is the e-bay and - nothing to be found. Sad :) Well, infinite horn is something that only exists in and it gets slimmer and slimmer as we travel will be slimmer than even an atom and so not paint can completely fill this imaginary horn. And an infinite surface area with a finite amount of for this to work, we not only need an ideal paint, paint that can be applied as THIN as we painting no matter how thin it is applied. You can down the street. Well, and that's all there is to paradox is quite common with infinity. Infinity it's simply a mathematical idea. And, once you a surprise that otherworldly creatures behave me know in the comments how this calculus-free you and how it compares to some other expositions finish with a fun fact that I stumbled across horn and the painter's paradox. Have a look at that was published after his death. There that's look at what it says underneath. Well there is the Evangilista Torricellius. And at the top is says blossoms another Galileo. Basically, people were as a second Galileo. Actually Torricelli was a all over Europe as a mathematician, he also made things, he is also famous for inventing bit. Have a look at the word in the middle. anagram of course :) The sentence at the top is an you can rearrange the letters at the top into the be fun to animate this rearrangement and here don't you think? What's also unexpected is that we That Galileus here is not quite right. Turns out Torricellius at the bottom don't have counterparts invented this almost anagram: close enough is fun