Do you ever notice that moment where you've won over that prospect? But, on the other hand, on their face when you There is truly a psychology Yet most salespeople don't know exactly what they're doing correctly more attracted to them, versus incorrectly that's actually repelling In this video I'm going to show you the psychology of selling. The 13 steps to selling that (clicking) Number one, drop the enthusiasm. This is probably my biggest passion in this sales training and to drop the enthusiasm, when they're in front of prospects. Your prospects don't like They don't feel good about it because it doesn't seem real, right? If I go up to you, just forgetting a sales situation, but to you at a networking event, right? And I come up, and I introduce myself. And I say, hi, my name's Right, simple introduction. What if on the other hey, Marc Wayshak, how are you? You're immediately like, And then, when you add it immediately your prospect It actually is caused by called reactance, where to push someone in one direction they're going to resist, So we want to drop that enthusiasm, and instead just be real, be genuine. Number two, they don't want the pitch. Some very recent data showed that one of the biggest reasons that prospects and buyers don't ultimately with a salesperson is that didn't really understand Yet, what most salespeople are that prospect they're They're coming in with all should do business with when we don't actually know if it's a fit. We haven't done that proper discovery to understand what's really going on. So what your prospect really wants at the end of the day is in a conversation about what's going on, what's really important to them. And what those challenges And then, if based on that conversation they still feel like it's a Now it's time to present what Think of it almost as a You go to the doctor, and hey, we have this incredible Instead, they're just saying, hey, tell me where are you feeling that pain? What's going on, help It's a two-way dialogue, and Number three, pressure Now, growing up we would always use the term no-no, that's a no-no. And I still think about pressure in sales as the same idea here. It's that we don't want on prospects because it's a no-no. Because it is such a taboo, And it's not just not helpful, it's actually killing the sale. So what we want to do is remove all pressure from the selling situation. Instead of trying to persuade the prospect to tell us, yes, where we're immediately as a result putting all Instead, we want to take a step back. It's like I said earlier, called reactance in psychology when we're trying to push and they know we're doing that, they're immediately going Think about trying to get or your spouse, or someone that you know. Trying to push them into something that they're not really sold on yet. If they feel like you're likelihood that they're Well, that's the exact same thing with selling to a prospect. If we're putting pressure on they're actually gonna pull back. What I suggest is you take And, instead, just questions to determine whether there's actually a fit. Number four, it's about them, not you. Now, again, this goes back to There was a boss that prospects listen to one radio station. And that one radio station is WIIFM. Now, do you know what WIIFM stand for? It's what's in it for me, that's They don't care about you, they don't care about your offering. They don't care about your products, or your services, or how What they care about is themselves. Is this conversation going and, B, is their solution help me solve a problem that I care about? If they can't answer or both of those questions, We've got to make the Understanding their about their challenges, the And then, when they see now they're going to be Because people like to People like to talk about or whatever it is that By making it about them now we're in a position where Number five, get in their shoes. Some really powerful data has shown that top performers at taking the perspectives So when's the last time through what's the experience, what's the buying experience when talking to me, or when Again, I'm not talking about or what's your product experience. I'm talking about the actual What's it feel like, what's Get in their shoes, start to What do they care about, what are the challenges that they're facing? What are the reasons that What are the reasons they do Understanding that, and suddenly we're now really getting into the mind of our buyer. So, when we talk about it's literally how can we start How can we really understand And then, craft our conversations around what they care about. Number six, we need to create When you watch those if you've ever watched And you watch the conversation between Tony Soprano and his psychologist. It's really interesting from a sales perspective as I watch it. Because she's never is never saying the solution. Tony says he's got a problem where he's concerned about this. And then psychologist says, well, help me understand why you say that. Or, how's that make you feel? Now, these aren't necessarily that we want to be using in sales. But what you see is that most salespeople when a prospect comes to us and says, oh, I've got this problem, well, you're in the right place. We've got this awesome new suite of products that are gonna help you. Instead, take a step not through what you're saying, what you're pitching, through the questions you're asking. Help me understand why you say that. What would you say this Or if you were able to solve in additional revenue or Create the value through the questions, not through the pitching of your ROI, or the pitching of the value Really, do it through the questions, not through just the actual Number seven, no isn't bad. Let me repeat that, no isn't bad. This is so important is that most salespeople spend their entire lives trying trying to avoid the Yet, when you think about it there's no reason to feel that way. No isn't a bad thing because at least 50% of your Our data show that at that you initially come to be a great fit for whatever So with that said we want as possible with those 50% So if it ultimately turns out to identify that as early as possible. And consider that a victory because top performers of their time in front of of the prospects that want So the only way that that is to make sure that when who's not a fit is that you And what this also does is it It takes off all that is feeling to do business with you. And, instead, you're I'm not sure if this is going to be a fit. Help me understand what's going on. Now the prospect feels From a psychology perspective you've taken all that pressure off. Now they feel good about this interaction. And at the same time you can too, because you know that if If it is a fit we're going to explore exactly how it's a fit. Number eight, if you feel it, say it. Let me repeat that, if One of my mentors used to always say this. And it's just stuck with me as so true. Quite frankly, even more true where there's just no with tire kickers or people If your prospect is talking in a way that's making your gut say, you know what, there's something not right here, rather than just push through just say it. Just get it out on the table, whatever it is that you're feeling. And I don't mean to say that But let's say your prospect, it just seems like they're just not into this. Maybe the timing's not right, or they just seem distracting Say, George, I really appreciate but it seems like you're Is this maybe not a good time And watch them suddenly I'm sorry, I was distracted, but no, no, I do want to have this conversation. Or if they seem like they're just not interested in what you're talking about. You say, George, I get the sense to be of a lot of interest Now, they may say, yeah, you know what, no, I'm not interested. And then you can say, okay, well tell me why you say that, right, But they may also come No, this is definitely something It's amazing how you get to the point so much quicker by saying If you feel it, say it. Number nine, get deep There is something that that we need to think like a doctor. We need to stop thinking and start thinking like a doctor. This idea of getting deep I think addresses that exact concern. It's that the typical salesperson, and says, oh, you know, we have Do you think you can help us? And the typical salesperson says, absolutely, we can help you. We'd happily give you a suite of offerings, whatever, you know. But they're not going into the challenges. They just identify a and then they offer the solution, versus the professional salesperson who thinks like a doctor. So, the prospect says, yeah, we've got these operational issues. Do you think you can help us? And the doctor says, well, tell me more about those challenges. Help me understand what's Think of it as an iceberg, right, most prospects are willing to discuss what's at the very top And what we want to do and understand what's really going on to get deep into those challenges. Really, using psychology, to get into the core Number 10, tie those challenges to value. Tie those challenges to value. We talked about going deeper to really understanding what's going on. Now what we want to do is tie those challenges to a specific value. What is it that if they could solve this challenge what would in upside revenue, or Here's an example, prospect is talking about their marketing challenges, right? And they're saying, is not as effective as we'd like. We just feel like we're not getting the number of leads that we'd like. So, now, you as a salesperson, you'd dig into those And then you'd say something well, George, if you were able to solve these challenges that you're in additional revenue to the organization? Now, what you're doing the opportunity to come They might say, oh yeah, well, I mean, jeez we could easily increase revenue by a couple million dollars if we were able to solve these challenges. Now you've tied the challenges to some kind of specific tangible value. And it's their number, it's their number. By the way, even if you're you're selling to consumers, there's still a value in So I doesn't have to But what is that value to Or what is that challenge Number 11, make it a two-way dialogue. Psychology shows us that when people are actually speaking that's When they're listening but they're less likely So what you want to do is you want it to be a back and forth. You want it to be a two-way conversation where there's never a period where you're just going, on, And talking about your or your offering, or the You want to only be going and then reengaging them If it is truly a two-way conversation you are going to close because it means that they have to be engaged if it's a two-way dialogue. Keep that back and forth, say something like, so that I want to understand, based on what we're talking about? Get them back into the conversation. Number 12, budget comes later. This is one of the most important things is that we don't want to by talking about our price at the beginning of the conversation. We want that to come at the What that would look like is we've gone through the challenges, we've gone through what We've gone through really And now it's time to talk about budget. So you might ask a question like, you know, George, typically what I'm hearing the challenges are, typically a solution could range anywhere Where on that spectrum could Now what you've done is you've given a range of potential budgets. By the way, it's a pretty big range, 100,000 and $500,000, huge range. And now we're letting them I feel like I could, you And if you've really built throughout your process you're You're gonna get that insight. Make sure that it's coming though, after you've really after you've really built that value. Number 13, feedback loops, feedback loops. I said earlier we want to make our presentation a two-way dialogue. And the feedback loops are simply those little questions when that are pulling them back And feedback loops are something that I use all the time in my life because it's so effective. If you ever find yourself going on and on, or talking for more than, you know, let's say 60 seconds, stop and just say, so before I go any further, Or do you see what I'm saying, Right, these little questions that are pulling people back The data shows that these little questions are not only reengaging but it's also creating Little, basically, think of them as almost like a mini close in the conversation. You're pulling them closer, That way by the end of the presentation, assuming they've been on and they like what you're to close is, what would There is no hard close because you've used these feedback loops all And now all you're doing is just establishing what's the next step. There is the psychology of selling, the 13 steps to selling I want to hear from you, which of these ideas did you find most useful? Be sure to share below to get involved in the conversation. And if you enjoyed this video, then I have an awesome free eBook on 25 Just click right here to get it instantly. Seriously, just click Also, if you got some value, please like this video below on YouTube. And be sure to subscribe to my channel by clicking my face to a new video just like