In this video, I will discuss should ever use in a casual Pokemon What I mean by a casual playthrough, is game is being nuzlocked or randomized. at every available Pokemon in these Quick disclaimer, by the way, It's not my want to use a certain Pokemon that is on this With that out of the way, let's take a look at Availability Role in-game Movepool and TM usage Niches and being outclassed Version exclusivity Gen 1 mechanics and bugs I will sort the Pokemon featured in this whole thing more organized. Now, it's you should never use in a Pokemon Early availability, outclassed and no niches The first group consists of Pokemon that without a significant niche that make they're outclassed by their competition. The first one is Marowak! It faces tough Pokemon, except for Onix. They're all available Marowak's stats are either equal so it's basically a worse version. learns a lot of Special moves, which it Just wait for held items to be introduced in the you should never be used over other Ground types. Next is Lickitung! Why should you never use it? Well, It becomes available in the mid-game as a City. The thing is, there are plenty of other in the game. This includes Raticate, who is a very there's Snorlax, one of the best gen 1 Pokemon On top of that, the NPC requests a Slowbro, another great Pokemon for a playthrough, so It does not learn any notable moves that set good stats and it is outperformed by pretty much In Pokemon Yellow, it is tucked a post game dungeon. So regular trainers Lickitung is a wasted slot in the Pokedex Next up is Porygon. It can learn a wide range of help of TMs. However, Porygon is not gonna make stats. You're better off using Clefable, who can Stat Total. The only thing Porygon has over but if you are someone who uses healing The Game Corner is the only way to obtain Porygon, in Pokemon Blue and 9999 coins in Pokemon Red aforementioned healing items. You should never Wigglytuff is just a budget Clefable. They get the exact same moves and the only thing that a lot of it. And this in exchange for lower I know Clefairy is a rare encounter in Mt. Moon, it's a cheap buy at the game corner. throughout the whole game. Don't Continuing on with everyone's Farfetch'd. Again, it is also obtained in a trade, for a Spearow. Something that you should keep It has all the tools to be a great setup sweeper, that consistently. Farfetch'd can potentially increased trade EXP will level up Farfetch'd If you want to have some fun, go by other Flying and Normal types. Speaking of other Flying types, Pidgeot is their first Flying type, including it is outclassed by Fearow and Spearow and Pidgey are found very close to two levels earlier into Pidgeotto at level 18, into Fearow at level 20 and has the stats of can only get at level 36. By that time, you can Pidgeot has slightly more bulk than the to consider using it over them. Oh and Pidgeot its best Flying STAB option. Final verdict, bird and a mid game bird and that's why you Now for some Pokemon that are just at the bottom You might remember Onix from the anime Sadly, it's a different story in the gen 1 game in Rock Tunnel. That is two gyms after Onix has one of the highest Defense stats in other stats, though... 45 base Attack, Geodude HP and Special stats almost match! The only thing but that doesn't matter, because Geodude will Even if you can't get a Golem by trading, Onix shares the throne with Lickitung and useless Pokemon in gen 1 and should Another Pokemon worthy of being the very when you compare him to other Fighting types, all of the elemental punches? Yes, but Do you also know how high his Special stat is? 35. He has Body Slam and Submission just like Pinsir, who may or may Hitmonchan is obtained as a gift where you Not only does Hitmonlee learn a proper it also learns Meditate to boost its Attack and You'll be decent in a few generations Hitmonchan, but for now, no one should Tangela is the final Grass type that gym. That means it only has a good If you're after a Grass-type for or Bellsprout in the early game or Tangela has good stats, but it's few good matchups left and that's Just like Tangela, Aerodactyl becomes It's one of the fastest Pokemon in lot if you can't set yourself apart from Fly is the only good STAB it can learn, coverage moves exist of Hyper Beam, Fire can make big holes in the opponent's team with as well and maybe even faster without since this basically means Aerodactyl is When you revive Aerodactyl, it comes I don't see a good reason to grind it to especially if you can catch Due to Aerodactyl's late availability and shallow movepool, I deem it worthy of being Now, for the first and only fully This is actually a very good Pokemon. You a Super Rod, so that puts it in the of strong moves including Fire Blast, Blizzard, Wait, why am I giving it so much praise, Look, the evolution requirement is the will be part of your team up until the at level 55! This alone is enough of a It soaks up too much EXP and Dragonair battles. Just use Nidoking or Clefable Now, I will talk about Pokemon but they're outclassed by even better Pokemon! Mr. Mime is, just like Lickitung, only better kept for yourself. Abra is which is the first stage of the Even if trading isn't an option it's still a very solid choice for a Mr. Mime. The only thing Mime has going do you need that if you're gonna nearly oneshot I wouldn't pick it over a Pokemon that So, in essence, why opt for other Psychic types, simply do the job better? Now for Kingler, this thing is attacker stuck as a Water type. It has though all of its other stats kinda suck. Kingler can dish out some serious damage with It also has the privilege to learn a signature with 85% accuracy that almost has a guaranteed quite overpowered on paper, but the catch here so it won't be dishing out too much damage with especially with Surf being a very strong In my opinion, Kingler is not worth who offer more versatility Seadra, Golduck and Seaking are mono exclusive to the table compared All three of them have a rather balanced stat Blastoise. Depending on the Pokemon have up to 40 more points in its base stat Blastoise performs better overall. Vaporeon and Special. In terms of tankiness and damage The only thing that barely sets Seadra and Seaking honestly don't see the point if you can use faster All mono Water types run the same two offensive more options to pick from most of the time. for example, a Gyarados or The next group is a duo of rare Safari catching mechanics of the Safari Zone Now, in Pokemon Red and Blue, Tauros is no and difficult to catch, but in Pokemon Yellow, rates, somewhat making up for their rarity Kangaskhan is strictly worse than Tauros, so Then that leaves us with Chansey. Despite it just isn't worth using over Snorlax, Chansey is even harder to encounter to Kangaskhan and Tauros. Even if you manage roles are available much earlier in the game To summarize, Kangaskhan, Chansey and Tauros RBY playthrough. Though, their rarity and compared to other Pokemon with similar be a worthy party member in Pokemon Yellow due Before I continue onto the next group, types of Kanto. It was very difficult for me but I think I managed to nail it Electabuzz seems to be the one you Electabuzz is one of the final The biggest problem is its late availability but there's more. Most Electric types can only or they just spread paralysis in the first limited. Electabuzz is sort of an outlier here. which can possibly give it a niche. Though, long time to teach these moves when better use them and secondly, Electabuzz's balanced Compared to the other Electric types, its power tier Jolteon. Electrode, surprisingly, has only so it will be dealing more damage overall with Then that leaves us with the early stat distribution with Electabuzz. The only but you're honestly better off giving In conclusion, Electabuzz has a niche with its but its damage output is quite lackluster for a Now, I'm gonna introduce not one Pokemon, typing. These are Venomoth, Parasect, Scyther Beedrill and Butterfree aren't mentioned. That's the game and evolve very early. Their stats are The 4 other Bug types don't have game Pokemon. They become available strong options that outperform The first Bugs to squash are Paras and Parasect. but by then you will already have a fully you can catch either Oddish or Paras and Parasect in their damage It doesn't help that Bug/Grass is one especially on a Pokemon this slow and frail. It's sad to see that Spore, an exclusive is wasted on this Pokemon. Venomoth can basically do but with a lot more Speed and without 3 quad two types that it doesn't Usually, you see this Pokemon Psychic and a filler move. You know one of the better Pokemon in the game and they boasts the powerful Psychic type on top of its STAB. Its stats are also a lot higher, except for One thing that Venomoth has over Exeggutor is while Venomoth learns it naturally at level 50, but that means you're stuck with Psybeam for Then, we come to our physical Bug type attackers type as a secondary type, but it doesn't have similar stats, with Scyther having on the other hand, has more Attack and I believe Pinsir outperforms Scyther in its so what I am going to say about Pinsir So, Pinsir, the notable moves you learn Submission and Hyper Beam. Where are the Bug hit the Gastly line, they're immune to all Let's start with Slash, a move that basically has a 100% chance to crit. There are many alongside actual good coverage. They also Then that leaves Pinsir with Swords Dance's Sandslash is the better Swords Dance user. Pinsir spread, with Sandslash's base stat total being a having a superior typing, early availability, Alright, let's wrap up this section. In Pokemon in the game. It and Venomoth Exeggutor and Victreebel. Pinsir does though there are simply better Pokemon to use And that is why you should never use Also, fun fact, Jolteon and Beedril are the decent Bug type move. Why don't Another group of Pokemon that share the all Poison types. These Pokemon It's mostly the fault of the Poison type not None of them have a strong STAB move, of them are mostly reliant on their I'm gonna divide them into two groups, Weezing and Muk The late game crowd consists of Muk and Weezing, this point in the game, there are only a few do particularly well in these fights and they Muk and Weezing have the benefit of learning Thunderbolt and Mega Drain. But so do the Then the early game crowd is left with Golbat it only learns incredibly weak and horrible moves and Bite until you get Double Edge or Mega Drain or even Farfetch'd, but I said you shouldn't Arbok has the unique trait of being able to why would you paralyze Ground-types with KO'd. Sending out your Water I guess it can also make use of Toxic and Wrap to to use standard attacks in a casual playthrough. surprisingly. Though, at that point, you're So, what it breaks down to for these become available way too late. Golbat is Arbok has potential, but it's outclassed you should never use Weezing, Muk, Now, let's talk about the Fire-types of Kanto. Stat-wise, they are not bad, it's more so that Their best STAB options are learned pretty Flamethrower around level 50 and the only Fire Blast obtained from the 7th gym, when There is one exception to this, Vulpix. If Vulpix can learn Flamethrower at Vulpix struggles a lot by only Flareon is also one of the Pokemon that but it can at least run a mixed set thanks can use Body Slam effectively, which is early high offensive stats really save So, besides Charizard, Flareon and if you're determined to use a Fire-type on Flying and Fighting-types to counter I don't have many great things to say Rapidash has an awful movepool and it's It relies on Fire Spin and Body Slam until there's no Flamethrower to speak of here. higher, Rapidash can only out damage Magmar is also home to the Cinnabar Mansion, only Fire type in Kanto that can learn is also a coverage option, but I don't Despite having a decent movepool, it's just not balanced stat distribution. It's better Speaking of Arcanine, this good boy has it really if you want Flamethrower, otherwise Fire Blast worth investing TM moves for coverage just too quickly because of low stats. And to top it The late availability and proper access to types. And also, like I said earlier, region. Just use Charizard, Ninetales or There's one final Pokemon I want to discuss. It's the absolute worst Pokemon for a why would you ever want to waste a turn Oh my god, I can finally see the I didn't expect this video to be so long. that appeared in this video. Many more One day, I definitely wanna look premise as this video. If you enjoyed and let me know if you want to see more! Until next time, have a good one.