Hey there guys. Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video, we're going to between the hot, neutral and ground wires as well as the function of This video is for homes in North America. If you are outside this region then you can still follow along and look a bit different, so Remember, electricity is You should be qualified and competent to carry out any electrical work. Before we get into this video, there are three things Number one, electricity will only flow in a complete circuit. If you come into contact your body might complete the circuit. Number two is that to return to its source and number three, electricity will take all available paths to complete a circuit but to a path with less is going to flow in that path. So we're going to be looking at the hot, neutral and ground wires for a typical North American First we'll see a really simple circuit to understand how it works, then we're going to apply this knowledge to a complex residential installation. When we look at a simple with just a battery and a lamp, we know that to turn the lamp on we need to connect both ends of the wires to the terminals of the battery. Once we connect these wires, the circuit is now complete from the negative through the lamp and then back to the positive terminal. So for the circuit to be complete, we need a wire to carry the and over to the light. This wire is our hot wire, then we need to connect and back to the battery for the electrons to get back to their power and this wire is our neutral wire. The hot wire carries electricity and then will take this over to the load. The neutral wire carries back to the power supply. If we look at a residential in North America, then we a neutral wire and some ground wires. If you want to see in then check out our video for that, links in the video description below. Now, imagine for a second, is connected to a battery and a neutral wire. And as we saw with the simple circuit, for the light to turn to the supply of the current to the load and we need the neutral wire to return the current to the source. Electricity therefore through the busbar and the circuit breaker It then travels back through the neutral and over to its electrical source. Now, of course homes are they are connected to transformers. So we're gonna replace the and there we go, we The electricity in this circuit which is different from which we saw with the battery. With DC, the electrons flow directly from A to B in only one direction, much like the flow of water down a river, but in our homes we have which means the electrons between forwards and backwards much like the tide of the sea. Now, in North America, we to most residential properties. So we have the two hot We simply have two 120V coils in the transformer. The neutral is then between the two coils. When we connect our multimeter between a hot and the neutral, then we're going to get and we get the same That's because we're only in the transformer. But then when we connect we get 240V because we're of the transformer coil. Now, if you don't have a multimeter, I highly encourage you to get one, links down below for which Now, if we have a load on and the load is, for example, 20Amps, then the hot wire will and the neutral wire will carry You can measure the current in a cable using a current clamp meter. Again, links down below for If you don't know what then check out our video link to that in the video Now, if we have another load and the load is a different value, say for example just 15Amps,then the difference between to the transformer or back So in this case, one side we have 20Amps and the other side we have 15Amps, so the difference between So the neutral will carry five amps. Where does the rest of this go? Well, it will pass And this is what we have in most cases because there are multiple in the residential property. However, if we had a load on both coils and they're of equal value, Then there will be no current So where is it going? Well, it's flowing back and between the load and the source. That's because it's AC, and the transformer is So while one half is moving forwards, the other half is moving backwards and the current will flow instead of back via the neutral. Hopefully, that hasn't If it has, then don't worry we're gonna cover that So the hot wires carry from the supply and over to the load and the neutral wires carry from the load and back to the supply. So what does the ground wire do? The ground wire, under will not carry any electrical current. This wire will only in the event of a ground fault. Hopefully, this wire will at all in its entire life. It's just there for an emergency path for the electricity to get instead of it passing through you. The ground wire in most it's uninsulated, but in with a green insulation. This wire has a very very low resistance so electricity will because it's easier and Now if we go back to the simple circuit with a battery and a lamp, and run this from the positive and we connect this to the then this is effectively our ground wire. As you can see, it's not being If the hot wire touches the metal casing then the electricity will now flow through the ground wire instead. If the hot wire is connected and the ground, then it will now flow through both wires back to the source. But as the ground wire then more current will flow through it. When electricity finds a and return to the source than its neutral wire, this Coming back to the house, the electricity flows through the hot wire and into the light and then but if the hot touches the metal casing, then it will instead flow back to the panel, through the busbar and then back to the transformer The ground wire has a very low resistance which causes a huge and which will trip the breaker. We therefore connect the that could potentially for electricity to leave its circuit, such as the metal pipes, the metal plates and the light switches and we also need to run one to the outlets because often our or they're covered with a metal casing, the things like washing When you look at a receptacle and plug, you'll see that there is a hot terminal, a neutral terminal and a ground terminal. The casing of something is connected to a ground wire in the lead which goes to the plug, and back to the panel to save Now, let's say you're and the ground or the soil is moist. If you touch a hot wire, you and current may pass through In this case, the resistance So the current might not be high enough to automatically flip the This will likely lead Luckily we have the GFCI GFCI stands for Ground We're gonna look at a but essentially they're This GFCI breaker is going to be connected to both the hot and the and so we can monitor the wires and ensure that the current running in is equal to the current running in the neutral wire of the circuit. If the current is not then it's clearly flowing via another route, we The breaker will realize and automatically flip to cut the power and kill the circuit. Connected to the main panel, we will find a thick copper wire which leads out to a ground rod. A ground rod is buried into the ground outside near the property. This rod is not used for ground faults. Its purpose is to dissipate and external high voltages There is also a ground rod at the transformer. Many people think that electricity flows through the ground rod and into the earth. Now, remember electricity tries It doesn't just go into the earth. Unless there is a ground then there is a potential to get back to the source, a very high resistance for impedance. And as we know, electricity over the path with the least resistance. So as we already have a very which provides a path the ground fault is going When it comes to lightning, the source of lightning So lightning is always trying which is the earth. If lightning strikes the utility cables, it will flow along the wires of both the transformer It's gonna do this to try If it wasn't for this, all our circuits then it's Now, if the hot wire with the ground rod, then through the soil, back to the transformer, but the resistance is very high This means the circuit breaker will not likely detect the fault and the circuit breaker to cut the power. Okay guys, that's it for this video but to continue learning, then click on one of and I'll catch you there Don't forget to follow us on as well as TheEngineeringMindset.com.