Hello and welcome to the first video of a new few weeks - Smugglers' Tales. These videos will a regular viewer of this channel, so we felt it launching into things. Smugglers' Tales will be lots of ambience and atmosphere, each focusing on obscure for a regular video. They're stories that of the Star Wars universe, and we're going to information in these videos will still be accurate going to be inventing details or anything, though public knowledge as myths or hearsay to We hope you're as excited about this new series as Welcome to Tatooine. If you were looking to get you couldn't have picked a better port. Just kidding. Contrary to the complaints of the It's no Coruscant, to be sure, but anyone flying once. Of course, if they can help it, they're there's one thing about Tatooine you should always planet itself is pretty damn inhospitable; only a habitable. The locals either keep to themselves the Sand People especially. And in the there are monsters whose names are You've probably heard of the Krayt Dragon before. them - and if you're looking to travel out in the So sit down, have a drink, and I'll tell you If you're looking to learn about any given On Tatooine, though, it matters what locals you some of the galaxy's worst scum, and many of them few credits free from a gullible traveler. The given to deception, but they know precious little large, you shouldn't expect to get anything useful talking about things like Krayt Dragons. Lots of but you could probably count on your hands The Jawas would be a better bet, though they can partly pheromone-based and that they communicate and whether or not that's true, even translation But just because they can be hard to understand understanding. The Jawas have been here forever, far more about Tatooine's environment, that's for sure. You might get some good info to avoid Krayt Dragons if at all possible - to talk to the only people on this planet who Of course, that's easier said than done. The to kill any they see on sight. They have an you see, and it takes some real convincing are nonetheless the leading experts on Krayt slay one and bring back a dragon pearl, and the Dragons hunting their banthas. It's from the our knowledge about these beasts - that, and Krayt Dragons often hunt in the but they actually make their lairs in the Highland regions like the Jundland Wastes are Dragons to live in. The Laguna Caves near Mos Espa or they would be, if it weren't for the podracers every year. Krayt Dragons spend the bulk only leaving to mate or hunt. When they hunt, for quite some time. Krayt Dragons eat all are banthas, which is why they come into Krayt Dragon mating season is in the summer, gathering in the canyons to, well, mate. Mating Krayt Dragon, but it's also an extraordinarily bad while it's overpoweringly horny, so maybe pick a the canyons of Tatooine erupt with the a sound fearsome enough to make even Sand you'll do the same if you ever hear such a thing. Given that they're reptiles, Krayt Dragons they live or even how long it takes for them to until they die. The bigger a dragon is, the though, and when they do eventually start to die, the Krayt Graveyard. No one knows why, but because the valley is choked with Krayt too, but that's just hearsay; very few have The most well-known kind of Krayt Dragon is You'd never guess from the name, but these valleys of the highlands they call home. Despite though they've been seen hunting both in a Canyon Krayt will venture out into the be extra careful - odds are it's hunting and even the smaller Canyon Krayts will Canyon Krayts are on the smaller side for Krayt average, they're about thirty meters in length, They're completely covered in yellow-green scales ridge of dorsal spines running along their which are sharp and potentially dangerous. and they've got long tails that are usually forked rend durasteel, and their teeth are even sharper you let them, and no armor in the galaxy is strong Despite their sharp teeth, though, they swallow their prey whole. If you think they also swallow boulders that they store in it can be digested. These boulders are in turn becoming one of the most sought-after treasures in pearls from Canyon Krayts are priceless, and I've crystals if refined properly. Good luck getting you have to kill a Krayt Dragon, There are techniques that make the job to figure out 2D images, and they can easily don't have much restraint when it comes to of a Krayt Dragon's lair and you're bound to have a single weak point in its armor - if you it'll go through the dragon's sinus cavity and go without saying that this is extremely hard has allowed the galaxy's best hunters to But the Canyon Krayt Dragon is a far larger and far more dangerous kind The Greater Krayt Dragon is the one of the most fearsome monsters in but there's debate over whether that's because people survive an encounter with one. They can and they need ten to sixteen legs to support their and their necks are long too, while their monsters actually "swim" through the sands of sneak up on their prey. It also means that Greater Krayts are considerably tougher than dangerous. Part of this is because of their size, but the biggest reason these monsters are Greater Krayt Dragons spray acidic venom from from these differences, the Greater Krayt with similar hibernation cycles, mating in the Krayt Graveyard. Banthas are also though these leviathans have been known to prey the gizzards of the Greater Krayt Dragon contain valuable than those of their smaller cousins. Good Krayt Dragon is all but unkillable. Even the Sand as a tribe. Any solo hunter going after a Greater All told, the Krayt Dragon is one of the you're intent on hunting one, I wish the right idea about these monsters - some Hello again! Good to have you back. I've got stories from another forest planet Felucia is an alien world if ever there was one. are all at least somewhat similar to those from galaxy quite like Felucia. The lifeforms there leaving you with a jungle of giant fungi full Felucia's not a destination for the faint of heart of danger there, too, some of it conventional Like with Kashyyyk's Shadowlands, it feels it's not some inherent darkness or is 75% of the galactic standard, which is strong but just weak enough that you feel like part of why the planet's wildlife is so weird - more easily. The other part probably has something a lot of ultraviolet light, which, among other That might be part of why Felucian wildlife is so as excessive UV causes cancer in humans. Felucia's though, which makes that a bit less of a problem. Felucia is hot and humid all over, and there's planet - shallow oceans and fungal jungles. and, presumably, they've got their but it's the jungles that Felucia is known for. trees - but Felucia's aren't. The planet's covered but none of them are actual trees and many thing about Felucia - it's dominated by but they're much less prominent for the most part, third thing that makes Felucia's wildlife unusual to Felucia's animals, most of the creatures on to protect them from the planet's harsh UV sunlight makes Felucia's jungles light a real pretty sight, if one best seen from Most kinds of plant and fungus on Felucia don't categorized half of what grows on that planet, we know of. The largest flora in the jungles tall spine-looking growths, pitcher plant-like while the undergrowth is dominated by spike nysillin. But this is hardly an exhaustive list, blur the line between plant, fungus, and animal a semi-sentient, rooted creature that Felucia's animals are every bit as weird Felucian rippers, and odd bird-like creatures and Felucian snails, slugs, and cat-bunnies such as the Felucian firefly and the parasitic is the giant gelagrub, the largest species gelagrub was an enormous beetle, but its larval the living things on Felucia, despite being Gelagrub larvae are docile and make good Some of these species are harmless; others like an easy meal, but will otherwise leave are outright hostile - the cerulean droch and good examples of this. However, the large predators - they're microscopic. All the some of which are dangerous. The jungles germs you likely have no immunity to - and You might have also heard of some more well-known such as the jungle rancor and the acklay. Well, are actually non-native, though they've by this point. They're not the only either - most of the planet's There are two main settler populations on who immigrated to Felucia from some other world mostly peaceful farmers and they're friendly in simple villages in the jungles, and they've supposedly distant relatives of the Gossams, who were the first outsiders to discover Felucia before the Republic, Gossam Courivers using Felucia. They faced stiff resistance from the in establishing settlements on the planet, and There's about 8.5 million settlers on cities. Kway Teow is the capital; the and Har Gau. All of these are controlled by the Gossam species and has its headquarters and it's got a bunch of fortresses all over in the jungles. But they're only really small parts of the planet. There are a fair to renegades and enemies of the Guild, havens if you go even deeper, there are far stranger The Felucians, despite their name, aren't one indigenous sentient species - the Jungle and very insular, living in tribal, shamanistic are truly bizarre, as you'd expect from Felucia. extremities; their arms split at their elbows, hands. And their faces... well, you really have to extraordinary attribute is something all Felucian See, I don't know how much you know about they're pretty weird. They've got plants that almost works like a sort of this is taken to the next level. All living things is like one giant living thing. It's not just the and the Jungle Felucians are no exception. I were "innately Force-sensitive," and while I the Felucians certainly have some kind of power of the more elusive predators on Felucia is the they're very solitary, keeping to strictly-defined using the Force. I don't quite know how it other creatures to appear friendly, allowing There are also places on Felucia that seem Kashyyyk. The Rancor Graveyard is one such place, of jungle rancors. Another is the Ancient Abyss, sort of holy site. To the careless, it might just the Ancient Abyss is actually the mouth of a The Jungle Felucians, if you can believe and they supposedly use the Felucia is a crazy world - a pretty one, but a to stay away from it, if at all possible. Having there are a thousand other ways to die on Felucia, Welcome back. I had a feeling for some more tales of the obscure and unusual? Well, you're familiar with Kashyyyk, and the Wookiees have gotta be one of the most a run through the Mid Rim, you're bound to dock beautiful place - beats the hell out of Tatooine, like everyplace else. Maybe you've even the darkest depths of Kashyyyk's planetary there - the stories don't even come close Kashyyyk is one hell of a planet. It's a forest justice. The whole planet, except for forest you've ever seen. That forest is full of which are absolutely enormous. If you're been Wookiees' coastal cities, then you're probably the coast. Those are hundreds of meters tall - deep forest, the ones you'll see if you're ever in The deep forest-Wookiees divide with the seventh being the highest and the level and it's plenty bright during the day. Most stay up there with the Wookiees, where it's safe, or kinrath. The canopy of Kashyyyk's forest is one Wookiees are artists with wood, and their cities built in. During the day, shafts of sunlight break and at night, the Wookiee cities come to life But we're not here to talk about the treetops. is darker and more dangerous than the level above from top to bottom, but the lower you go, the the canopy, the predators are mostly average and sunlight to a degree. On the lower levels, and the predators start getting particularly roots arch overhead and block out the last traces place permanently dark. That's why the Wookiees There's no place in the galaxy quite like the the eye can see, their trunks stabbing up through barely make out the tangles of the lower branches, the roots of the trees, which are as massive make the Shadowlands a maze, since many of them forming huge walls that can be hard to find a way just covered in moss and vines, but in spiderwebs. trees at all hours, and sometimes you can hear The actual forest floor is always shrouded in You could probably find some interesting but it's a death sentence to stay in one place in trying it. The Shadowlands are home to many, many and there are probably many more in the to be discovered. We'd be here all week if three in particular that you should be wary of if The first is the katarn - you've probably and large enough for a Wookiee to ride one as The katarn are masters of stealth, ferocious or so the Wookiees say. They're not exclusive to climb the trunks of the wroshyr trees, though But when the Wookiees hunt the katarn, which they descend to the Shadowlands, where the beasts as their rivals. Their legends claim that the and that being hunted by them was what fire they needed to overthrow the katarn and their elders claim, the roles will reverse The other two big predators in the Shadowlands and the wyyyschokk. Viper kinrath look like the as well as the caves of Dantooine and a few much tougher, and ten times as dangerous. Their the Shadowlands, attacking interlopers with in comparison to the wyyyschokk, which you might spiders you'll ever see, and they're real damn for over a kilometer, and are stealthy as hell. they pounce - and once a wyyyschokk attacks, prey. Their webbing is thick and near-impossible potent in the galaxy. The wyyyschokk is the most terentatek, that is, a few of which are known The Shadowlands are one of the most but that's not the only reason why they're if you've never been there, but there's Just being there is creepy. It's because they feel dark. The Wookiees aren't immune the Shadowlands as a symbol of murder, state given form. Some of their legends hint an ancient darkness more dangerous than There's an ancient machine in the darkest older than you could ever imagine. Everything as if the machine came before them. but if you see it in person, you know just wrong with it. Like the Shadowlands, it feels something that's been forgotten for a long should have stayed that way. The only name The computer interface doesn't work anymore, the story goes that when it did, it claimed all that remains of its builders' ancient computer's records indicate that the machine placed on the planet to make it suitable to have experienced a malfunction tens said malfunction for the rapid growth and I don't know if that machine actually created thing - it probably created the Shadowlands. The pervades the forest floor, the thing that inspires machine is tainted, that's for sure - and its Good to see you again. You interested of the galaxy's prettiest planets? I thought so. Well, you've surely heard of Naboo before. you know it's one of the most beautiful pleasant seas, beautiful cities - everything you the beaten path, it's still a pretty nice place; almost as incredible as Theed itself. But too. You've gotta dive really deep to find them which is full of vast underwater and it's home to some of the Naboo is a unique world. Most terrestrial planets made of a nickel-iron alloy, surrounded by a the standard nickel-iron inner core, but its outer bunch of unusual properties. Now and again, carving huge tunnels through the mantle and they crisscross the planet, forming the Naboo and sometimes use them as undersea highways, but because this enormous underground ocean is home Take the Opee Sea Killer. This twenty-meter a crustacean and a fish - it's got a long, three pairs of legs for swimming, and the biggest in one spot and try to lure prey in - it's got two drawing particularly stupid fish towards But the Opee Sea Killer can also be an active body plan, it's a damn good swimmer. Its swimming sucks water in through its massive mouth and then plates, propelling it forward at a respectable allowing it to ambush prey pretty easily. When it spits out a long prehensile tongue which is packed with two rows of sharp teeth. carry fertilized eggs, which means they have to The Opee Sea Killer is one of the toughest and is made of some sort of heavy-duty chitin, and even creatures large enough to bite through and tongue. But there's always a bigger fish, The second-largest predator on clocking in at forty meters long. These and they look even more gnarly than the Opee sort of cross between a crocodile and an eel, sharp teeth tipped with venom. They have two tipped with sharp fangs that the Colo Claw Fish eat whatever they can get their hands on and can since the Colo Claw Fish is the second-largest everything that moves. Its stomach can Colo Claw Fish prefer the darkest parts of systems and abyssal trenches. They're lined with them hunt in these conditions, drawing in prey so secret weapon, though, is a powerful hydrosonic before they pounce. They're one of the most lethal have been taken offworld for study. This resulted subspecies of the Colo Claw Fish that was created The Colo Claw Fish is one of the only creatures Killer - but that goes both ways. Though the the Opee is bulkier and still capable of preying meanwhile, loves to eat the Opee's eggs and young, alive. But this can be a mistake - Opee Sea Killer of their predators, and young Opees that get through a Colo Claw Fish's stomach, leaving their All told, though, the Colo Claw Fish is a real highly effective ways. Even Gungan subs have But both the Colo Claw Fish and the Opee Sea which preys on them both. There is, The largest creature on Naboo is Aqua Monster grows to an average length average of 54,000 tons. It dwarfs every it dwarfs virtually every living thing in the that the Sando Aqua Monster is so terrifying. for an aquatic environment - it's actually a feline than anything that belongs down in the Sando Aqua Monsters have enormous, bulky and four limbs. Curiously, they seem only most undersea mammals, they don't have and they aren't very streamlined, making them slow half-fin structures at the end, which I've Aqua Monsters have only just started to adapt back limbs for swimming and their front limbs vast mouths. Their heads sort of remind me As you might expect, Sando Aqua Monsters need prefer more massive creatures, such as but they'll generally eat anything in their path. Monsters are generally lethargic, as activity to 90% of their time just lying around on rocky which makes them ever so slightly more productive Aqua Monster does spot something tasty, it lunges Most Naboo consider the Sando Aqua Monster ever seen one. But the Gungans know better. Even but they have enough experience to be afraid of Monsters to be mystical creatures, indisputably believe that Sando Aqua Monsters guard the lost the Gungan pantheon. I don't buy into that story, into being by some higher power or other, I think Ah, good to see a familiar face. Welcome a lot of stories to tell, none of them pleasant. the short version. Maybe another time - right See this box? This is what I came here for. I'm paid a fortune for it. There's a few dozen of And they're ancient, more so than they look - this try to open it - trust me, that's the last thing old box. It's the symbol of an ancient empire's died tens of thousands of years ago. What This box was found here, on Korriban, in one but mind prisons like it have been found all for some reason or another. But most of them out in the Unknown Regions. I've heard it called its proper name. It's a pretty world, an ocean but it's also one of the more uncanny places are littered all over the place - the islands temples and camps to vast ancient cities, which planet is covered with spacewrecks, from downed across the entire planet, there isn't a single a haunted world, and even though it looks nice evil, long dead but still potent, the thousand Right now, the Republic rules the galaxy anyone remembers. But it didn't always, and another civilization of similar scale, one that allowed for the rise of the Republic. This was building monuments to its rulers that still before - remember the Builder Forge on Kashyyyk? species across the galaxy as the Builders, Archaeologists are still trying to piece and their Infinite Empire, but by all accounts enslaved entire species and exterminated others, maintaining a rigid caste system within their that the Builders were cannibals who feasted on it tracks with the violence they inflicted on they were hit by a plague, which devastated the back to their homeworld. Archaeologists say there the dawn of the Republic - a war that ended which wiped out nearly all that remained of the The Infinite Empire of the Builders was built on them in many ways. There is no end to the kinds keep its subjects in line. The legends of some unstoppable and all-consuming, which could offenders were met with every form of torture you couldn't even imagine. These punishments were Builders considered undesirable. And like the prisons to maintain control. In the Republic, amount of jail time, but for the Builders prison apparently usually reserved for members of other species that the Builders wanted to preserve As you can tell just by looking at this little the ones we have in the Republic. It's much too look that way. It doesn't look all that special, and you might easily confuse it with some any other world with history. From what I've things weren't anything special either - my ordinary-looking cellar in some ancient temple, full of these little boxes. It's only if you realize how these things work - and understand The inside of the box is nothing but white there's a sudden flash. An outside observer and if they took your vitals they'd probably think it rips your consciousness straight out The ancient Builders apparently used these mind mind prisons were temporary, in which case they'd their mind back into it when their sentence was into their bodies is lost to history now, though, now - they imprison convicts for eternity, on their worst criminals. For those types, the after they were imprisoned, meaning that they The world inside the box is stark white, an can see. The only features within are a bed and a the pillars are for or what's written on them, it's just the Whiteness, eternal and unchanging. sometimes you can hear their voices whispering their screams. A few months of the Whiteness is a blink of the eye for the condemned in these never dying, never even aging, without hope of Some of the mind prisons are empty. Some aren't. arrivals who were ensnared by the mind prison on Builders who have been stuck in the This mind prison is one of those, one know his name. Nor does he - it's You might be wondering how I know all this about an archaeologist I run shipments for, who As it turns out, these prisons aren't inescapable. technology works, which rules out anyone alive for the imprisoned one to inhabit, which rules long since turned to dust. That gives our friend else needs to open the box and get stuck Apparently, even then nobody can escape the mind both agree to allow it. The Builder in this with the winner allowed to leave the she's better at riddles than an ancient what, so she was the one who escaped. The next I can't say I expected to see you all far afield. What the hell brings I suppose it doesn't matter. You interested at that. It's about a nearby nebula you Now, Kal'Shebbol is remote as it is, but there's the Kathol Sector Outback. There's a whole tangle and a handful of local interstellar civilizations then the Kathol Republic, and finally all is this big frakking nebula, the densest and it's one of the weirdest places in the but if you actually manage to get inside, it might The path to the Kathol Rift is complicated, and here, you'd want to head all the way down the Void - that's where the Kathol Sector becomes the Marcol Void, one that leads to the Pimbrellan the Kathol Republic. From there, the route first Shatuun, you'll want to head to the Nah'Malis where you can rest for a while; due to the quality far, weeks of hyperspace travel at least. Past By the time you reach the Kathol Rift, you'll be past the rift but void and a few straggler-stars itself is a massive wall of gas and dust, It covers a huge swath of space, and it's a hyperspace routes through the Kathol Rift cut convoluted, and treacherous. It can take The usual dangers of traveling through nebulae has some more unique challenges for travelers. for one thing, especially hallucinations skittish about arthropods, stay away from the you might want to keep your distance anyway. it's what's hidden inside the rift The scientists on Danoor are pretty sure the by the Celestials in the times before the Republic a different story. They say that, long ago, the the original Kathol species, a highly advanced They created whole species to serve them, and they enormous organic platforms that opened portals of years ago, a Dark Jedi conquered the Kathol, a battle, and during it, one of the Kathol's this tore a hole in hyperspace and frakked up the Regardless of which story's true, the Kathol secrets hidden within it. Some of them have heard of the Aing-Tii monks, their homeworld is though no one knows where. It's not on the I can tell you that much. There though. The closest to the civilized oceans and a chlorine atmosphere, which isn't is the first alien construct you're likely to No one knows who grew the thing or why, a safe bet. It's apparently some sort of having been abandoned for so long - any ship station's tentacles and dragged into one of its labyrinth. There's said to be an alien artifact Past the construct, there's a long stretch of relatively calm region of the nebula with a bunch the homeworld of the Yvarema, a species unlike like the Bilars, if you're familiar with them. but Yvarema can develop collective sentience by a creature called the Majjvara, which Past Yvara is Demonsgate, a volcanic planet is the most remote charted world in the nebula, there's nothing worth landing on this there's nothing terribly dark about Demonsgate; more than anything. No, the real dark heart of the Kathol was ravaged by whatever and it's a shell of its former self devoid of life. The Kathol themselves are nowhere is crawling with other kinds of sentients. Most for specific purposes, and they're some of the One of the more prominent is the Charr Ontee, who farmers. They live as slaves now, along with a which range from sentient worms and birds to known species that doesn't seem to have been strangest of all - the Fiery Ones, beings of pure All of Kathol's creatures, except for the Fiery of the ancient Kathol. As the story goes, when the Kathol activated a contingency plan. They the Lifewell that could safely store their cataclysm was over, following which they could downloaded themselves into the Lifewell, they ordered to wake them up at the proper time. This centipede, and though its original name is The DarkStryder protected the Lifewell through it decided to keep its creators in stasis. the planet with its own bizarre creations and a tyrant for thousands of years, and its servants the original Kathol are supposedly trapped to this an energy field in the Kathol Rift that's similar Some of the beings that live in or near one day, those trapped in the Lifewell will and the Rift will be purged of its dark traint. Welcome to Coruscant! After culture shock being here. The center of But everyone knows Coruscant's grandeur's only of the galaxy's city-planets - the upper levels while the levels below are little more than Considering that you've come all I'm sure you know that already. But the down here. There are even deeper reaches of to all but the most hardy of mutants, and even the Everyone loves to rag on Coruscant, myself when you get down to it. They say that Galactic though most of it was built relatively It's completely consumed the planet in a even the name Coruscant comes from how the the planet's original name was, and not Coruscant was like before the city - everything Nowadays, pretty much everything about it was a rather chilly place, but nowadays, Coruscant's atmosphere is constantly scrubbers without which the planet would be sentients sucking up oxygen. Coruscant's got The only parts of the planet you can really peaks accessible from Galactic City and the with irrigation stations that melt freshwater The infrastructure required to keep Galactic there are at least three trillion people here, provided with breathable air. It doesn't help that requirements living here. Some breathe methane, - and some apartment buildings have to find ways average oxygen-nitrogen breather. And the basics electricity, HoloNet access, waste disposal, the runs all throughout Galactic City, and the lower the ancient Coruscanti needed the help of the But once you're done gawking at the engineering out the most is the social stratification. on the surface, on the uppermost of Coruscant's where the sun never shines and danger Many generations of Coruscanti have lived and died It's depressing, but it's true. All the light down it's dim and unchanging, a permanent twilight that does in the middle of the day. There's natural Moisture and air that get trapped down here create shaped by the layout of the city blocks and has three distinct climate layers, and it gets The Coruscant Underworld's got plenty of original indigenous species went extinct long depending on who you ask, possibly Humans as well. vermin from across the galaxy, many of which have You've got conduit worms, shadow barnacles, hive many more unpleasant creatures to reckon with down on electricity and live in the conduits that run and they can't feed in the ordinary way, they send More often than not, the nearest electrical source a bunch of Underworld-dwellers turn up dead with The highest levels of the Underworld almost to level 1000, past which Coruscant gets aren't accessible on every part of Coruscant; the after all, and as a result, the lower levels huge machines that make the surrounding areas the planet, the actual inhabited and accessible an unnavigable labyrinth of streets and The Coruscant Underworld is divided into a slew of There's law enforcement down here, but they're which is instead ruled by gangs or vigilantes. out-of-work mercenaries, career criminals, so watch yourself while you're down here. But here aren't in it for pleasure. Poverty makes can you really blame people for resorting Now, all of that's not to say that an irredeemable hellhole where everyone's out folks just trying to scrape by. And there's apart from meeting some old smuggler in a seedy or Black Sun, this is one of the best places to it's no secret that the Underworld is much all sorts of fun down here, if you know where are in the Underworld, that's for sure, The really dangerous parts of Coruscant aren't even deeper. The most distant reaches of the and have been for thousands of years; there are seen use since the time of the Pius Dea. And The bottom fifty levels of Coruscant and the bottom thousand are pretty much there are hundreds of levels of old city the city above. These levels are invariably the air steadily becomes unbreathable as of the planet's atmospheric scrubbers. The a toxic abyss that, in the very distant past, was But above the deepest depths of the cesspit there's a few levels of undercity that uninhabitable. These levels are the domain of the forsaken descendents of Coruscant's of Galactic City have mutated these beings into their domain. Their levels have been but there are still ways down here and there - Coruscant's mutants tend to be similar caves on other planets. The most normal pale, eyeless dogs that hunt via as well as a bunch of unnamed species with which other mutant species aren't. The Coruscanti and whether or not they count as a singular ogres are alike; these things live in the in sewers and old reactor stations, and Some are capable of speech, but the extent to Perhaps the most chilling of the Coruscanti are all too recognizable - their ancestors were over the millennia, and nowadays, they look like and though they have eyes, they're buried under a you can see their eyes darting back and forth about them is that they're still sentient have a civilization of sorts down there, build traps for trespassers. Or at least, run-in with the Cthons is unlikely to escape. Coruscant - after the ones that live in Ah, I knew you'd be back. Eager for Regions before you put Coruscant The Unknown Regions are the galaxy's biggest full third of the galaxy, more or less, hyperspace anomalies. Republic explorers have years without much luck. That's not to say though. There's a few routes between though they're obscure and hard to navigate. It's establishing settlements out there - but it means what's out there trickle through to the rest of We've already talked about the but they were really just the tip of the I've got three more stories about the dangers starting with one of the relatively ordinary You might have heard of the Chiss before - come to you a while back. The Chiss are probably but that's not really saying much. and they have a closed-border policy that the Chiss Ascendancy, is supposed to be the Unknown Regions have, but despite that, with the Republic or its citizens. The rare enemy with the outsiders - and more often The Vagaari are humanoid-ish - they're shorter and two mouths. They're somewhat primitive, but so they've taken to the stars and become spoken to knows where they come from, apart but it doesn't really matter, because the Vagaari plundering and conquering, making use By all accounts, the Vagaari are brutal. I've so that they might have superior beings to heads up their ass that far, they certainly act and they see members of other species as Vagaari apparently see the compassion of they do their best to exploit it. Their warships a slave, and when they board ships, they herd these slaves are used as living shields, These bastards travel in a fleet of at least a peoples. Their attacks tend to be random picky about their targets. They've attacked a and they've even frakked with the Chiss from time that the Chiss have spent the past few years the Vagaari Empire is a much smaller threat But the Vagaari aren't the only brutal conquerors worst threats waiting out there is much more Ssi-Ruuk. These guys are saurins from a remote Regions, as far as you could possibly get from Ssi-Ruuvi Imperium, a small network of conquered world. I've heard it called Lwhekk, but I have Anyway, if the stories told about them are as the Vagaari. They've got a caste system based species as inferior - stop me if you've heard that that everything belongs to them by right of their And much like the Vagaari, they enslave all the Ssi-Ruuk supposedly do to their captives, which Unlike the Vagaari, the Ssi-Ruuk developed and some of it's completely alien to what horrifying innovation they've made is what the Ssi-Ruuk hook their captives up to rigs that to power their technology. The entechment and beings more superstitious than I have along with their life force, trapping It's a fate worse than death, and the whole Fortunately for us, the Ssi-Ruuvi Imperium The most common explanation I've heard for only get access to the afterlife if they been properly "consecrated" by their priests; if their souls are left to wander oblivion in eternal Imperium - conquering new worlds involves a lot of damnation to take a new planet unless they're can still use to conquer, but their beliefs But from what I hear, that might be about to out of resources at home, so they're starting they might even come knocking on the Now, the Vagaari and Ssi-Ruuk are pretty own right. But they're an ordinary kind of evil, god complex. The last story I have for you today as the Ssi-Ruuk or even the Vagaari; if you paid of it before. But the history texts don't do One of the more reliable routes into the at Coruscant. It takes you down the Metellos Trade it winds off into the darkness, to the far side called the Tempered Wastes, a stellar-poor of this void is a lonely little system with when I showed you the mind prison - You'll remember that this planet the architects of an ancient empire that enslaved From this one lonely rock, the Builders expanded lasted ten thousand years. But they didn't by a huge debris field, which is all that Once, it was the glory of the Builders, a tool of unstoppable conquest. According to Republic records, the Star in low orbit above the system's star. When it was constantly sucking in vast plumes of energy factories. The Star Forge contained spacedocks, and armor, and so much more. It took raw stellar But most amazingly, it could do all of this entirely automated, and it was made with some to repair and maintain itself. All the for it to function was a controller. Supposedly, Forge could only be controlled by one who was apparently powered the whole station, making The Star Forge was what allowed the Builders to more ships, droids, and guns than the Builders' armada with which the Builders hoped to rule all create the Infinite Empire - and fortunately Because the Star Forge wasn't just a space its own - not the will of some AI, but that of hungered. It fed on the conflict its capabilities Records from one of the old Sith Empires claim master the Star Forge were consumed by it, their machine. Even those with the strength to serve as and the Star Forge warped their personalities, more aggressive, more likely to use its The Infinite Empire ultimately collapsed due to before that, it's said that their empire had been the Star Forge was the cause. It brought out the more eager to conquer, until they started to turn to Lehon, the Builders were consumed by civil war, destruction. Just as the Star Forge had built But the Star Forge survived the end of the it was discovered by the Sith, who used it to wars with the Republic. In the end, the Republic Star Forge in a great battle, blowing up its sun. The threat of the Star Forge was ended you know. I've flown through that is still there. Not the station itself - I don't know what the Builders did to create that this - they made something that was never meant secrets that make the stars dim just a bit. by sentient beings. The Star Forge was one When you fly through that debris the only thing you can really do is look pieces of space junk the Republic turned the It's comforting - until you see two This close to the sun, this shouldn't be possible about the stories that say the Builders built The Star Forge is still out there. years for it to put itself back it'll do so eventually. And when it does, we can Back again? I can't say I'm surprised. I've got some more tales of the strange Now, everyone's got their favorite ghost ship tell you they've seen one, too. For the most are some stories that have a basis in reality. to find all manner of strange things in it if three stories of ghost ships to share with you The first one's not about a ghost ship, ghost ships and similar phenomena. and it's pretty well known. But there's so get hard to separate fact from fiction The Dreighton Nebula, as you may know, is out pretty far from civilization. Like a lot of to navigate. Deep within it are a scattering of of special significance. There's Dreighton, name with the nebula. There's the swamp planet crown jewel of the Dreighton Nebula - Aeten of stygium crystals, which is pretty much the Stygium's one of the most valuable resources in Now, there are a lot of ways to cloak a down all systems so that you look like a chunk have dedicated signal jammers to maintain But these methods still leave you so anyone serious about hiding their ship will get invisible to the naked eye as well as to sensors. holograms or blending fields to hide ships from the only ones that make ships properly invisible, important planet - or it did, back But getting to Aeten II requires going through the and not just because of the ordinary dangers and Imdaar are said to make up the Dreighton off and strange things happen. Ships disappear sightings of ghost ships there are just as known to fire on travelers, attempting to Dreighton Triangle before disappearing suddenly. it's worth considering whether these are cloaking devices. But even if it isn't actually Speaking of danger, any spacer worth their dangerous than picking a fight with the exaggeration, and there's a whole fleet of If you paid attention in history class, you just warmongering cult that ruled the Republic whole galaxy to all sorts of horrors, from to vicious crusades and inquisitions. During symbols of the Pius Dea were the cathedral crusaders used to ravage the Rim. They were some by all accounts, bristling with guns, jagged They terrorized the galaxy for a thousand years The defeat of the Pius Dea was a group and Caamas and Alsakan both played big roles as was the Bureau of Ships and Services, which seeded with rogue coordinates. One day, every cathedral sent off to the middle of nowhere, following hyperdrives. The crusaders aboard died slow, their warships crawling through realspace With history that old, it can be hard to this story is at least mostly true - and we know, cathedral ships now and again, drifting aimlessly but in space, anything with momentum will so they continue on their journeys, hollow carry the remains of their former crews, who Maybe they still have loot from conquered but you couldn't pay me to board one of If you ask me, the cathedral ships are as real as dead but still haunting the stars, just The only consolation is that they're hurt you unless you slam into it. But This last ghost ship is another one it was destroyed thousands of years the records of the Old Sith Wars, in ghost ship you could possibly The Ravager was originally a Republic made for the Mandalorian Wars. It was one of the Republic fleet. But it was felled by the crippled by their last assault above Malachor and in the years after the Mandalorian Wars, Eyewitness accounts from the Battle of Telos been spaceworthy. It was covered in wounds in its hull that left the ship's interior open and bolts of electricity occasionally looking like lightning welling up from a similarly poor state. The Ravager's decks their walls charred and rusted. Barracks, their computers non-functional and covered in a still worked, had faded to a sickly yellow-orange. Because the Ravager wasn't just a a horde of half-living zombie slaves, pale, and lifeless, still wearing tattered under the complete control of the master of the records claim, held the whole ship preventing the crippled vessel from succumbing did for the crew. The Jedi say that this was no more an entity than a man, a Lord of Hunger. The Ravager roamed the fringes of the galaxy at were coming close to extinction, and this ship the Ravager would follow, and its master would them. The Ravager left a string of dead planets from sentient beings down to the microscopic was one such destroyed planet. Telos IV was who slew the Lord of Hunger and The Ravager is long gone. The Sith weren't the only ones capable of these and there's no telling when the next Ravager I thought I'd see you here. Anyone on Nar Shaddaa at least once. You'll here - Nar Shaddaa isn't the galaxy's I thought I'd see you here. Anyone on Nar Shaddaa at least once. You'll here - Nar Shaddaa isn't the galaxy's This moon's practically throbbing with activity spread from the highest skyscrapers City. Nar Shaddaa's like Coruscant in that zones, but that city districts are stacked But Nar Shaddaa's no Coruscant. A lot of only have to watch yourself if you go down underworld. It's one big lawless, polluted slum, and if you're gonna spend any time at all here, As I'm sure you noticed on your way down, in the galaxy. There's not much in the way of but they ignore most of it, leaving the people Nar Shaddaa's chaotic from top to bottom. The are a notorious mess, many landing platforms or and every single sector is packed full of people, Nar Shaddaa's one of the best places in the it's virtually impossible to find anyone on reinvent themselves all the time, taking up or put their pasts behind them. You can crime lords have run their operations from basic cloaking devices to mask their sensor The city itself is a mess as well - the lack no zoning or central urban planning. The thoroughly polluted and run-down. You've got grand towering skyscrapers and kilometers-deep right next door to industrial plants. Some and in the most crime-ridden parts of Nar Shaddaa, offworlders into traps. The verticality of Nar the city-levels on Nar Shaddaa are thoroughly level-based neighborhoods, Nar Shaddaa is divided with all the levels in a sector being more or less polluted it is, but the highest levels are just A lot of Nar Shaddaa is industrial in nature, many urban zones. 85 billion people is a lot Nar Shaddaa's population is one of the most sentient species represented here. And unlike humans are a minority on Nar Shaddaa, on Nar Shaddaa have their own diaspora have their own districts. These districts can while most of Nar Shaddaa is poor and There are a few well-off districts though these are still full of crime; the these. The neighboring Duros Sector is a close Sector was poor as hell, populated mostly the Trade Federation's poured a lot of money neighborhoods since. There's also New Vertica, is formally independent of Hutt rule - though they Some city sectors are even poorer and more one of the more well-known ones, but perhaps located on the far side of the moon. full of the stench of decay and desperate it's full of refugees. You see, whenever there's a lot of them always end up on Nar Shaddaa. spacelanes lead here, so it's easy to get to, and from whatever conflict is making people flee. Some life - only to wind up herded into the Refugee There, people live in shipping containers or district, most of them just barely scraping by. to keep the refugees penned in, and the Hutts refugees, taking them as slaves or coercing them it or not, the sector actually used to be a lot there are even hidden gems in the Refugee Sector, descendents of former refugees that achieved some community support networks as well, which keeps themselves, the only people in the sector are or the hirelings of the local crime lords. But Nar Shaddaa wasn't always this is the moon of Nal Hutta, the Hutts' capital and swamp fifteen thousand years ago, after their Nal Hutta - which was called Evocar then - but the Hutts took their land and relocated put the Evocii to work turning this moon into when the city was complete, they drove the Evocii For thousands of years, Nar Shaddaa was a it was the end-point of the Ootmian Pabol, route between the Republic and Hutt Space, rich off trade with the Republic. Nar their public capital, while Nal Hutta was more guests. But about four thousand years ago, the and things changed for Nar Shaddaa. Legitimate to other ports, and Nar Shaddaa rapidly it had settled into a new role as the galaxy's Ootmian Pabol's since been reestablished, legitimate trader wants to do business and likely will forever remain, the galaxy's But there's more to Nar Shaddaa than crime. in Hutt Space just to get mugged - it's a of the best entertainment, legal and otherwise, in a few popular cantinas, casinos, and/or brothels. a full-fledged entertainment promenade, with a cantinas - the Burning Deck, the Slag Pit, and bounty hunters. Other popular establishments the Star Cluster Casino, and Club Vertica entire entertainment districts. The most located on Nar Shaddaa's near side. This vibrant commercial sector that, unlike the rest of There's also the much seedier - and much Sector isn't a dedicated entertainment but the sector is notoriously most of it illegal. There's a few legit cantinas Red Sector caters to those with illicit tastes. shops, slave markets, and worse, and most of the Now, keep in mind that not all establishments pretty much the only major port where humans really hate humans tend to congregate here, where content. There's a bunch of establishments them being the Jekk'Jekk Tarr in the Refugee built in the tunnels under the sector docks. of cyanogen gas. In humans and a number of other the body, and it can kill both through inhalation though, cyanogen is an intoxicant. Nonhumans of on the fumes, and cyanogen's effects on humans The Jekk'Jekk Tarr's also a notorious criminal built thousands of years ago by Visquis, used to be very powerful on Nar despite the fact that they were in constant the Nar Shaddaa Exchange was led by a boss named which he used to locate and hijack cargo the Hutt Cartel's leaders at the time. Goto drove he double-crossed blew up his yacht in orbit, But plenty of other criminal groups have moved full of Hutt Cartel enterprises, but virtually presence on the Smuggler's Moon, whether they're local gangs, too - the Bleeders are a particularly out of the Red Sector, kidnapping travelers and also plenty of slavers; some, like Red Eclipse, Hutts. The Besadii Clan in particular has a bunch to lure people into slavery on Ylesia, one of But some of the worst abuses on Nar Shaddaa are The lowest levels of most sectors are dominated by sectors, like the aptly-named Industrial Sector, Shaddaa's industrial areas are run-down, but quite galaxy manufacture stuff here, taking advantage as well as its complete lack of regulation. In is made here, in the lower levels of the city, and do as much unethical testing as they want. that the people living there have become mindless just goes to show - even on Nar Shaddaa, the Good to see you didn't get lost whether you'd make it back or not. With you'd think the galaxy'd be a safer always another ancient terror just waiting around The story I have to share today is about insectoids. But Spacer, you ask. What's so bad asking that question has never come face to face average bug. They were alive long before the still alive today, unchanged, unrelenting, Something most folks don't know about the that doesn't really mean what most expect it they don't all look alike. Killiks live in large nest has the same general characteristics. their members are very different. Depending on the some being larger or smaller, or having different they still have enough in common to The most notable common trait is that they're protruding out of their torsos, each of which frightening mandibles sticking out of their lower comes in multiple shades, from brown to scarlet, chitinous exoskeleton that shines with a subtle Killik exoskeletons have been found in thousands of years old. Their chitinous which are essentially an opening to allow air Like I said, they all vary in size. Most are roughly Human-sized, but there are Personally, I try not to think about that. Now, if you know anything about bee society, are female, just like with bees, and their a few males around for breeding purposes, only form a new nest and expand. Then, these fresh Any given Killik can lay up to a thousand eggs in and those larvae grow into battle-ready nymphs they're fully grown and ready to make Killik the numbers are terrifying on how fast these nests lead to over a million Killiks within two years, they built their ancient hives days it's said they've modernised Killiks have many ways of communicating. They all but aside from it, they can also communicate long-distance telepathy, and pheromones. The all Killiks together create a pheromonal which basically means they're one giant hive mind. Because of this hive minded collective identity, or me. They only see themselves as a part of the they don't hesitate to sacrifice one or thousands if one of them is injured, they don't bother on food, they'll send scores of them out it's nothing. To people like us, which is why other sentient species You know when I mentioned lack of food? This build a city and stay there, creating but when the area they're living in runs and walk out across the plains in search Do you remember what I said about Killik they don't only have an effect on Killiks. Any undergo a series of changes. That brings us to you'll understand what I mean when I say they're non-Killiks who have assimilated into the hive they're also called bugsluts. Their eyes have speak as one of the hive, using 'we' and other The pheromones they're exposed to restructure receive telepathic communication. They're not just Joiners are very useful, because they help who then help the hive with tasks the or with diplomacy. That said, they're not To the Killiks, war isn't frightening. It's part they embrace it with as industrious a nature as they unite all the different nests into one specialised at something different, they with their hive mind, create a truly terrifying their nest. So, imagine one nest does the support or non-combat support. Their which is why they've survived for tens of No one really knows how old the Killiks are, the Republic. Old enough to remember ancient civilisations ruled the galaxy with however, is that they were native to Alderaan though, it wasn't called Alderaan. Because they were so good at building, took advantage of them and used worlds and grand projects. There's even the construction of the Corellian system, Eventually, the Killiks left Oroboro en their homeworld's resources, then trying to take them over, which pissed off the Regions. Little was left of the Killiks which Humans discovered when they finally But the Killiks weren't really gone. Some emerging every few hundred years to wreak war between the Republic and the True Sith, they which had blossomed in their absence. but it was fantastic for the powers-that-were, chemical signals in an effort to reproduce No one's sure if they succeeded, In the meantime, the Killiks that migrated to on a smattering of worlds like Yoggoy. They've but they've been careful not to be too aggressive decided they're not a big enough threat to warrant though rumours say they used to hire the It's hard to say if they're true, but I hope lest they decide to return to the Core And I'm back! Guess who just made Ah, that's probably every smuggler's favorite confuses the uninitiated every time. Yeah, we not time, and any spacer worth their spice could are measured by how close your ship can get to the business - coming within even twenty parsecs nevermind 15 or closer. Many of the And the Maw isn't just dangerous because dangers on the Kessel Run, some of them ordinary and some of them unexplainable - and Pretty much the whole Kessel Sector is full of Maw Nebulae and their associated dangers take up is covered by Ashteri's Cloud, another dangerous leading through the sector, which wind through is the Triellus Trade Route, the Hutt Highway, Hutt Space and acts as the informal edge of the the Pabol Sleheyron, which cuts through The major stops on the Triellus in the hubs - Formos is the big one, but there's also plus Oba Diah a little ways off the route. Sleheyron - Injopan and Mandrine both the worlds of the Aeneid System, Prishella worlds with little connection to the spice Honoghr off-route from Little Kessel, but there's The only planet in the sector that really a misshapen rock of a planet with a tenuous circling a blue-white Type B. Most because the only reason anyone would ever the rarest and most potent variety of spice in fossilized energy spider webs, if you can believe there neither know nor care. Used to be the mines back when the Republic ran them directly, but then and now with the Republic on the decline, it's who've had a heavy hand in the underground mines are mostly staffed by slaves now, I hear. Now, glitterstim is super valuable, so Kessel legitimate traders and smugglers in the ass to actually get to Kessel. The only which starts at the storm-soaked hellhole Zerm the nebulae to Kessel. But this route is heavily fleet out there before they brought the Colicoids every ship that goes down the Corridor. That's There's an alternate route from Kessel, as you nebulae. However, it's one of the most dangerous is tricky enough on its own - apart from the huge you've also got loads of young, hot, which concentrate in arms that wrap through and sometimes navigating it is barely better established leg of the Kessel Run. The Run cuts a dodging star clusters and especially dense seasoned pilots can make it through - but Once you get close to Kessel itself, you reach walls of nebula that you can neither pass through and, in the tiny gap between them, there's heading to Formos from Kessel, who'd have sometimes let their guard down when they themselves all over some asteroid. It's too - but the Pit is only the second-most It's after the Pit that you come to the really black holes, a phenomenon so strange that most natural. I shouldn't need to tell you that flying odds are it'll tear you and your ship to pieces, it's unlikely that you'll get sucked right in, of the black hole's accretion disk. The accretion where they're mostly composed of ionized gases whole frakking black hole cluster, which makes safe side and don't get any closer than twenty getting closer, since that can make a Kessel Run Now, all most spacers know about of the Kessel System and part of the more than just a navigational hazard, if I've heard from a few spacers that there are in the Maw. I'll believe that when I see it, development facilities hidden in the Maw, cut if that's true, but the Maw's certainly a good way to make sure the black holes don't end up strong their gravitational pulls are - the Kessel But secret weapons plants aren't the in the Maw. I mentioned earlier that most Maw is natural - a natural cluster with the various black holes merging or ejecting of gravity. But the Maw is surprisingly stable, on purpose by the Celestials. This theory is overlap perfectly to completely block access Nothing can escape a black hole once it's past and not information, either. Usually, actually beyond the event horizon; light will be wrapped around it by gravitational the black holes overlap so that whatever's is completely cut off from the universe. or see in, or get any sort of information apply to anything on the inside trying to The story goes that the nature of the it must have been built to contain rest of the universe. There's all manner of but the most detailed story tells of a single the universe from the Celestials. It's supposed a being whose escape would doom the galaxy. And the Maw conveys, one that makes this story all an entity at the heart of the Maw, then even the But I don't know if I believe that story. being some all-powerful chaos god hiding in worse. Maybe the real chaos god is the wars Hello again. I see you escaped Nar to go somewhere with fewer bounty hunters Speaking of bounty hunters, it seems that line Some of the new small-time hunters are just kids thugs looking for an outlet that isn't illegal. it can be a dangerous job, after all, and the targets. I've got a few stories about bounty hunts, and some about dangerous hunters. Now, most bounty hunters work solo or in small to this rule. One of the most infamous was the were in operation during the Sith Wars, when was rapidly descending into lawlessness. A and one of them was Duro, which had been scourged Even today, four thousand years later, the planet still the wasteland the Mandalorians turned it and the Duros themselves have abandoned it little Duro has recovered so far, the process The Zhug Brothers were an army of issues with their homeworld's post-Mandalorian bureaucracy, they decided that the best way their blasters. When another political family on following which they were exiled. But that didn't set out to raise enough credits to seize control bounty hunters, acting either in small freelance clients to hire a whole army of well-trained, The Zhug Brothers raised a ton but they bit off more than they could chew when believed to be the last of the Jedi. The Jedi including the founders, Dezanti and Azanti Zhug, The Zhug Brothers fell apart after that, While we're talking about bounty hunter but mythical - the GenoHaradan. Nobody's entirely but if the stories are true, the GenoHaradan are the Republic itself. Supposedly, they were founded after the Despot lost a war to the Hutts and was their services to the highest bidder. But after their home sector, the GenoHaradan started working legend goes that the GenoHaradan have subtly for millennia, with the ultimate aim of keeping Like I said, no one knows how or if the GenoHaradan still exist. The guild and nobody knows if they're still around that they at least survived into the present claim to have started as GenoHaradan But let's put a pin in talking about bounty Some targets are inherently more dangerous than than you would an Anzati. But perhaps the most The Gen'dai are one of the galaxy's more for the most part. But they're one of the most systems and pretty much everything else inside Gen'dai are pretty much walking nerve clusters, if regenerative abilities, which allows them to else in a manner of seconds. Virtually one down. They live for thousands of years, too. Fortunately, the Gen'dai are a peaceful the older they get and the more they have is that a Gen'dai becomes... unstable. Older sometimes develop psychosis, and a psychotic in the universe. Unlike other members of their psychotic Gen'dai like to wander around Dealing with one of them is probably the most One particularly notorious psychotic Gen'dai is hunter himself - well, more of a contract killer, his head over the years as well. He fought in the and he developed a taste for killing relatively easy. He also developed a vendetta reigning Mandalore at one point. Naturally, the death mark on Durge. But they couldn't kill him. and failed to put that lunatic down for good - Durge has survived them all. Sixty years ago, Durge. From what I've heard, they set him on still out there, though, and I don't envy the next My last story is about both a dangerous hunter and the Mad Wookiee, who in his time was one of Nowadays, the Wookiees are one of the most but back in Hanharr's day they were obscure. and Czerka Corporation took advantage the Wookiees. Hanharr was one As the story goes, though, before Czerka He was bloodthirsty, and his tribe thought he the Shadowlands. They were right, of course; came to Kashyyyk, and killed them all, the standing over the bodies in a deserted village. but he escaped during transit and killed hunting them like the animals they were. The ship crashed on Nar Shaddaa, where Hanharr local bounty hunter, and before long, he was less of a hunter and more of a butcher, and to what Czerka had done to him. In revenge for torture, or enslave humans, selling them to one human he hated more than any other, and his One of the crime lords on Nar Shaddaa put out young human woman named Mira. Hanharr took the job at the chance to kill her. He set a trap for he intended to drive her into. But Mira was a through the minefield no problem. Hanharr wasn't was nearly killed. Mira had him dead to rights - that she never killed her targets, and she wasn't But Wookiees, as you may know, had a life debt life-debt to Mira. This drove him insane, and he her. The two bounty hunters chased each other galaxy. Mira ended up becoming a Jedi, and after Hanharr to handle. They say their final battle No one knows how exactly Hanharr met his end - planet. But in the end, his lust for revenge Hello again! Good to have you back. of an entity so horrifying, the gods themselves tried to rip the universe in two to Folks call it Mnggal-Mnggal, an entity out of that far, or met people who've come back from of strange and terrifying creatures out there. know we should be afraid. Mnggal-Mnggal is a whole a nightmare that's visited Not much is known about Mnggal-Mnggal. It's about it were written when the entity was ancient one that should have never arrived in our galaxy. made it a point to study Mnggal-Mnggal as much a healer entity from another dimension, but, like Mnggal-Mnggal is on no official species catalog, that not even famous institutions like the But Mnggal-Mnggal has shared some stories about who somehow managed to escape hale. The entity the old gods said to have built the Corellia the galaxy. It's old enough to have borne If the Celestials and Mnggal-Mnggal really many believe the Celestials would have tried to hyperspace anomaly that cuts the galaxy in two, a hand in that, cutting the highly populated Regions in an effort to stop Mnggal-Mnggal from Because that's what Mnggal-Mnggal is all about. ooze, slimy and smelling like the sweet scent of It can shapeshift, manipulating its thick ooze anything you can imagine. It can form a mouth or misshapen wings to take to the skies with. beings, but it doesn't have to. Believe Above all else, what Mnggal-Mnggal spreading throughout the galaxy, and What I haven't told you yet is that like the Waru. There is only one, forgiven for thinking otherwise Because Mnggal-Mnggal is a body of grey ooze moves by infecting other creatures. its ooze to creep up on someone; other times, only to explode upwards the moment a creature something. Just a few drops of Mnggal-Mnggal's creep up into your mouth or nose, inside your any passageway into your body is good enough. your skull, digesting your brain first, eating you from the inside out until you're What's worse is Mnggal-Mnggal animals, insects - as long as it's Mnggal-Mnggal will consume it. However, it we taste the best. It's because we're the best Within 24 hours of Mnggal-Mnggal entering you, and if you tried to get help, chances to the same fate as you. But your role in insides turned into grey ooze. If I'm honest with After its victims are dead, Mnggal-Mnggal can ooze-filled meatsuit. It's accurate enough to though the victim's voice sounds like little digests their vocal chords and tongue. Really, you looked closely enough; their stares are empty awkward, and stay eerily still when Mnggal-Mnggal within a week, they start decomposing, with That said, if you're close enough to identify a late for you. The reason Mnggal-Mnggal takes puppeting them towards other sentients, it can And this is where the truly mind-boggling truth victim out on a space station, then at a pool and think they're two different beings. But species, it's an entity. All those pieces you slime? They are all Mnggal-Mnggal, all parts of By this point, I can't even tell you how there's a planet called Mugg Fallow. Once, though? Now, it's an empty husk of a world. left. Mnggal-Mnggal flows in rivers across underground caves with so much of itself that left of Mugg Fallow are lifeless continents And you can tell Mnggal-Mnggal is abandoned Mugg Fallow in search of it has victims pilot ships into orbit a ring of derelict ghost-ships as proof of all knows what you'd find if you dared explore I have seen Gree sailships and a treasure barge But Mnggal-Mnggal isn't satisfied with the plague of the Unknown space stations, and other worlds. On some, malevolent ooze, lying in wait for it has spread far and wide until it overtook Thankfully, there are people out there who've and they've been doing what they can has the potential to destroy all life as we know are focusing on defense, screening ships and from infecting their territories. Others are particular have gathered the greatest volume data library of Csilla. They've been thorough, location, to origin stories can be found in either; they actively place bounties hiring bounty hunters and other adventurers They don't really have a choice. Mnggal-Mnggal has changed the course of to other minor events in the Unknown Regions But oh, should they care. Because Mnggal-Mnggal galaxy. No, it's a being of pure evil, and it Normally, I don't like throwing heavy but that's just because I save those I'm sure you know plenty of creatures across like the Anzati, who're driven Mnggal-Mnggal isn't like them. Above all else, Mnggal-Mnggal wants control. and it enjoys it. Like I said, it cherishes Mugg it would transform every planet in our But what really sends a chill down my spine torturing sentients isn't just a means to enjoys the process of torturing a sentient being and from what some ghost-faced smugglers Some stories tell of Mnggal-Mnggal infesting rotting corpse to emotionally torture its entity taking over sentients, then controlling ones to make terrible decisions, like opening an That's just how fickle and sadistic it likes to talk to people. It'll speak in and spin tall tales of ancient beings and well know of all these long-forgotten secrets, its sending to you a secret treasure trove, or to Mnggal-Mnggal is a trickster you better forgotten moon out in the Unknown Regions. there are reports that infestations of the Outer Rim Territories. It's spreading, and said about recognising its zombie victims, But I think that's enough storytelling I'll have a nicer story to tell. Hey there! It's been a while since I last saw Well, in any event, I've got a special treat steeped in history - this planet and its moons here in Iziz would like to admit. Onderon was the and a lotta dark groups left their even the Sith. Most people here don't talk the people of Iziz prefer to keep But what do you say we dig that dark want to grab yourself a drink before we First, some background. Unless you came here is the only inhabited world in the Japrael Japrael Sector. Most of this part of the Inner during the Republic's initial period of or at least ignored. It didn't see its first it wasn't connected to the greater galaxy until Route was blazed. Nowadays it's a fairly popular Zeltros that stops here before heading out into Back when Onderon was first settled, the Onderon's the second planet from its star, and you stick around until nightfall, you'll Dagri, Evas, and Dxun. The first three are barren on the other hand, doesn't understand the at least theoretically, with an atmosphere and closer than any other moon I've ever heard of - orbit a planet. It takes up a massive portion of and once every summer, it passes so close that forming an oxygen bridge that allows moon and the planet. Onderon and Dxun have been an accurate description. Even their environments covered in jungles, which are broken up only The other thing Onderon and Dxun have hospitable. Onderon's original settlers found It's unclear whether they came here on purpose they ended up stranded on this rock without that much we know, and they also seem to have not at first. That left them completely unprepared to The plants and beasts of Onderon and Dxun mostly for one simple reason - they're some of reliably aggressive that the Republic likes since they can entrench themselves Even the plants spread quickly - you'll see the thick vines and trees of the Dxun moon on For the most part, though, it was the beasts of Onderon's beasts are mostly docile, and are frequently domesticated. But most of from the lumbering orlax to the fiercely are the drexl, enormous flying monsters with enough to rend durasteel. Drexl aren't native to they migrate back and forth between the the wilds of Onderon. And the early The Onderonians who survived the first together. They gathered into one settlement, which their weapons technology rapidly advanced, and the annual drexl onslaught. Over time, the settlement itself expanded, becoming the great Even today, Iziz is the only city on the but it's grown a lot since its early days. It is home to four million people, the vast majority lessened somewhat since the city was founded, but which remain heavily fortified and the Onderonians are, and always have been, defensive by default and quick to In keeping with this, Iziz has a and the Onderon Military has a lot of power in which seems like a bad idea to me, but it's doesn't seem like it'll change any time soon. and garrisons all over Iziz, and the city is with turbolaser turrets. Obviously, these were but they've since been used to fend The outer barrier of Iziz is known only a long row of huge rock slabs. The outer side with highly defensible battlements. Air defense and the Wall only has a single gate, which battlements of the Wall are accessed through that run all throughout the city. The Sky Ramps Iziz into quarters and sectors, and they're for the Sky Ramps are clustered around the inner The city is divided into a ton of districts, of the notable ones are the Lower City, which the South Quarter, where you've got industry and now, which is wealthier and devoted to commerce. is just off the Merchant Quarter, overlooking an undercity, mostly abandoned, which stretches of it is unmapped, and many who venture down There's also a track for swoop racing down there, At the heart of Iziz is the Royal Palace, Onderonian government. The original Royal Palace on all sides by battlements and watchtowers. The Ramp leading out from the Merchant Quarter, well-defended part of the city. There's a lot of even if the regents themselves don't really relocated to the Unifar Temple down near Yolahn Speaking of the monarchy, let's Onderon's royal family has actual political power, little more than traditional figureheads. The has final say over Onderon's diplomatic relations and acts as the chair of the Council of Lords. and is made up both of other members of the The current King of Onderon is Ramses The Onderon royal family traces its roots back revered leaders in Onderonian history, among them brought them into the Republic, and Queen Talia, separatist movement. But the royal family has and the dynasty was started by a tyrant that It's a part of Onderonian history that's four hundred years ago, a Dark Lord of the Sith and as the story goes, he had once been students, even - he was powerful For that reason, the Jedi Masters chose to hold until he confronted his pride and arrogance. is that he murdered his master, left the Jedi Nadd lived in the centuries just after the Great was destroyed, and in his time everyone traveled through the ruins of Sith Space, scrolls that the Jedi had missed when they purged where he met Naga Sadow, the Dark Lord who was apparently still alive after all this and then Nadd killed him and became the new he set out to conquer a world of his own, and Freedon Nadd used his Sith magic to overthrow himself up in their place, declaring himself and he banished anyone that showed the slightest to be mauled by the beasts in the wilderness. Iziz were brainwashed into worshiping the Sith cultists. Many Jedi Knights who tried to help and over the course of several decades, the Sith suffusing first the city and then the entire Freedon Nadd was eventually slain by a Jedi be the end of Sith influence in Iziz. But they Onderon in secret, and Iziz's next regent was one line. Some stories claim that Nadd's spirit stuck Sith. The Naddists regained near-total control and the people of Iziz continued to honor Freedon death, the city was still under Naddist the city's regents, were both trained in the Sith But not all Onderonians were under the thrall of were cast out of Iziz. This was considered a death wilderness, and it had been the punishment for the exile from Iziz wasn't as certain a death sentence exiles learned to survive in the wilderness. They the beasts of the jungle. Over time, they even the Beast-Riders, and they stood in fierce I said earlier that Iziz is the only city on settlement, though. There are a scattering of in the wilderness, mostly in the highlands. Some Fortress, the greatest of the ancient Beast-Rider Onderon royal family for reasons I'll get to in a on the traditions of their ancient ancestors; Clan Clazca, and Clan Dor-Drel. Even today, they mounts. With that said, a lot of Beast-Riders becoming little more than petty thugs. Gangs of travelers, so you'll want to keep an eye The original Beast-Riders soon gathered into inevitable. The Naddists had no interest in Beast-Riders, but the Beast-Riders weren't gonna grip on Onderon, and before long, they went to Kinch Sunka, who led the combined armies of Iziz. Sunka failed to unseat the Naddists, The Beast-Wars of Onderon raged for centuries the Beast-Riders would march on Iziz, and turning the city's many turbolasers against the years passed, the numbers of the Beast-Riders of exiling their criminals, and the Beast-Riders Iziz. The Beast-Wars escalated until the reign of the war and crush the Beast-Riders, requested Amanoa tried to frame the Beast-Riders as being enlightened civilization, hoping that that sort dirty work. As the story goes, the first group of and they bought it at first, especially after Princess Galia, before their very eyes. But the kidnappers back to Fortress Kira, where it was willingly. She hated the Naddists and wanted to Modon Kira, to help the Beast-Riders overthrow The Beast-Riders then carried out another the help of the Jedi, they were able to capture and Galia became the new Queen. She married Oron the people of Iziz, purged the government of the Republic. Some of the Jedi, including Master Arca and finish cleansing the planet of Freedon Nadd's Just kidding, of course they didn't. It takes more entire city, nevermind convince them to make peace Even though many people in Iziz leapt at the first still Sith cultists all over the city. Iziz was rule, consumed by constant unrest. The Jedi did but there were only a handful of them, and the After a year or two, the Jedi determined that Side in Iziz, and that these were part of the which at the time was located under the Royal the Jedi ordered a new tomb to be built on two years after Galia's ascension to the the sarcophagi of Nadd and Amanoa to the new All at once, the Naddists rose up and caused chaos funeral procession and stole the coffins of Nadd deep beneath the city. These Naddists were led into Sith magic caused his body to decay until he leading to Amanoa taking over his duties. Everyone but in reality, he was just biding his time. With armature that allowed him to move, Ommin returned now openly acting on behalf of the Dark Jedi named Warb Null, an armored warrior With Freedon Nadd helping them from beyond the of Iziz and capture Arca Jeth, the Jedi Master Oron Kira, and the other Jedi were where the Beast-Riders held the line against the the Jedi Order, which in turn requested Several Jedi, including future Grand Master the Naddists, and the Republic deployed battalions Ultimately, the joint Jedi-Republic-Beast-Rider by the Jedi Knight Ulic Qel-Droma, and King which caused his bones to give out and his body spirit of Freedon Nadd from Onderon, cleansing and the Naddists were utterly crushed. Queen the fervent support of most of Iziz; in time, she for real this time, stabilizing the planet Iziz. And as planned, the Jedi relocated the and now also King Ommin to the new tomb on Dxun. Said tomb is probably Dxun's most imposing located in a lush clearing on the shore of a entirely devoid of life. Nothing can grow in built out of black rock and Mandalorian iron, but it was eventually breached anyway. The warped by the power of the evil that like a sort of ziggurat built into the side of a statues. On the inside, a network of running between storerooms and the deep and Ommin are stored. A ton of ancient Sith stored there, including Nadd's old lightsaber, Speaking of Dxun, let's talk about Onderon's Demon Moon, and given that it's where all the pretty fair. Dxun's a dark place in its own right, and it has been since before Freedon Nadd's corpse help. Dxun is even more dangerous than Onderon, even. The jungles are denser, more wild, and more are worse, too. Even the air on Dxun is harsh by constant rainstorms. Every moment there A number of the plants on Dxun are will even eat humans if they get the real threat. Unlike on Onderon, everything try to do so given the slightest opportunity. notorious for their willingness to eat everything, known as nighthunters, can make themselves the scale, you've got bomas, densely-armored Dxun is a very inhospitable place for anyone who The Onderonians left Dxun alone, for the Nadd. They never even considered establishing The oldest known structure on the moon is hoped that nobody would dare to visit if they Unfortunately for the whole galaxy, this ended year after the body of Freedon Nadd was moved Knight named Exar Kun. Kun broke in and had who led him to Korriban, Yavin IV, and down declaring himself the Dark Lord of the Sith and over a year after the Naddist revolt, Exar started the Great Sith War, which During the war, Qel-Droma won the loyalty of with their leader, Mandalore the Indomitable. The conquering worlds in the name of the Dark they set their sights on Onderon. Mandalore attack on Onderon, but he and his forces the military in Iziz and the drexl-cavalry of back to Dxun in disarray, where Mandalore the ambushed by the jungle beasts. Cut off from the The Onderonians and the Republic decided not to figuring that they would all be wiped out was a severe mistake. Even though Mandalore was survived, including one who found Mandalore's new Mandalore - Mandalore the Ultimate. He transforming them into the Neo-Crusaders, The Mandalorians built a secret fortress not far from the Tomb of Freedon Nadd. For recruits there to train in secret, amassing an the Republic. The new Mandalore taught that the jungle weeded out the weak, and on the Demon something Mandalore believed the Mandalorians Dxun moon, the Mandalorian Neo-Crusaders became ever seen. Twenty years after Exar Kun's defeat, the Republic, slowly building an empire. A decade When the Mandalorian Wars began, they began world the Mandalorians conquered; one day, without riders rained from the sky, destroying the Iziz fell in a matter of hours, beginning a long only the first of many worlds to meet with such armada that ravaged the Republic, which could do for their part, resisted the Mandalorians. The the invaders, and in Iziz, General Vaklu, a movement. His cousin, soon-to-be-Queen Talia, But Onderon remained under Mandalorian control If you know anything about ancient history, you for help in the Mandalorian Wars, and the Jedi the fight anyway, led by two charismatic young tide of the war, slowly driving the Mandalorians they had driven the Neo-Crusaders all the invasion of Dxun was necessary for the war to soldiers were dispatched to the Demon Moon. So The Battle of Dxun lasted for months; the scrap of territory lost, and Republic forces jungle beasts. Revan's plan was to send of battle droids first, which would be sent to following which the rest of the army would and many troopships were shot down during the Jedi. The rest of the battle was an endless bloody sorties all over the far side of the moon. Only Whatever his plan was, it did eventually work; As they did, the Mandalorians prepared to abandon store equipment in case they returned. When all to stay and fight while the rest of them abandoned the Republic's final assault. Revan came out staggering - for every Mandalorian who fell, the lost, and many others started to be corrupted by A year later, the Mandalorians were crushed the Jedi Civil War began - the horrors Malak, and their followers to the Dark Side, waging war on the Republic. Onderon was spared to attack it. Once that war was over, though, It started with the return of the Mandalorians. Mandalore the Preserver, arose, and he led set up camp in the ruins of the old Mandalorian tested themselves against the beasts of scattered Mandalorian clans. New clans that where the Mandalorians made use of the supply rearm. The Mandalorians stayed on Dxun for many seem to have abandoned the Demon Moon again at But the real threat to Onderon wasn't the the legacy of Freedon Nadd was involved. Throughout all the wars that had the Tomb of Freedon Nadd had mostly been ignored. and the Republic didn't care. But after the end took an interest in the place. They were loyal who sought to conquer Onderon to feed on, and building a camp just outside the tomb. A Sith his - set up shop in the crypt of the tomb, where This time, not all of the Onderonians were had allied with General Vaklu, the second-most overthrow his cousin, Queen Talia. At this point due to the infrastructural damage caused by and many people wanted their homeworlds to the Republic to its fate. Vaklu was one of those supporter of the Republic, and she remained to favor separatism. These political tensions General Vaklu and his right-hand man, Colonel to their control of the military and the state population to their side. But they couldn't win of the military, even those who agreed with Vaklu, when the war happened, and Vaklu knew in advance support of a Jedi Master, the famed Jedi Guardian Sith - they would allow the Sith free rein on When Vaklu finally made his move, the Sith Nadd that allowed them to control the beasts in Vaklu's army. Between the Sith and the a number of other Jedi, led by a former exile, and they helped turn the tide of the war. A Tomb of Freedon Nadd, killing the Sith caused the Sith on Onderon to lose control of The Jedi Exile, accompanied by Mandalore himself, dropped down to Iziz in a salvaged Basilisk and taking the fight to Vaklu's forces. Ramps and then the Royal Palace itself. Colonel ordered General Vaklu to be lined up against a cost was high. Iziz lay in ruins, and much But under Queen Talia, the city rebuilt. and thanks to her, Iziz remained in the Republic interconnected with the galaxy. Over time, and the people of Onderon more or less culture of Iziz was made up by some Sith Lord, so Onderon had some minor crises including a brief succession crisis during the cover to destroy the Republic fleet in orbit of of mange at one point, which dramatically making it much safer to venture beyond but nowadays, there are cleared plains many of which contain shrines built by members of warn visitors not to venture past the treeline, And with that, I'll leave you to whatever in the city of Iziz, and remember - stay out and above all, stay as far as you can from off long ago, but their dark masters' As for me, I should be heading to the starport. I'm afraid. But maybe one of do an in-depth exploration of some