Thank you. It's a great pleasure to see all of you here The festival has had conversations about science Perhaps some of you have come to some of those. And oftentimes, there are two sides represented sides, you know, science and religion, sometimes but tonight we're doing something differently. We really only have one side here tonight. So the group of people who are going to come They all come from the background of science, one side, this one trajectory of science, side. Into the side of religion side of faith. Before I bring out our esteemed group of panelists, so, I'm going to begin with something which So this is what a beautiful midnight sky brimming Now, I also have a little cabin, Upstate New up there and it's a nice, dark night sky, just like this. Maybe not just like this. This is takes a Hubble Space Telescope, you But you get the idea and when you see a wondrous how does it all work? How did it all come to be? And I have spent part of my professional life of some of these questions, and because I when I look up, I tend to see order and harmony The language of mathematics, a language of But, many others, when they look up at a sky right? Ideas of soul, of eternity, of divinity, of And for some, that kind of talk, it feels For some, it's even off-putting. But when you look at the data, you see something century, the modern technological age and the surface of Mars, detected gravitational There are still many of us who are believers. So if we look at some of the numbers, about About 1.7 billion is Muslims. Hindus, Buddhists, that gives us another two it's about 14 million, right? And then if we add in the atheists, this takes say there's a lot of people on this planet heaven. So if aliens were able to sweep down toward wondrous equipment that allowed them to detect map of faith, this is what our planet would You could probably work out the color scheme Blue is Protestant, Red is Catholic and so You get the idea. We are a religious planet. Personally, I am not religious in any conventional and I certainly do consider myself curious. One thing that I have certainly gotten ever Now, the simplest answer is we have religious That raises a whole lot of challenges that relevant for tonight's discussion is there on Earth and if we just take one of them, there are over 33,000 distinct denominations. They can't all be right. So the natural supposition is that at most if Sarah here, happy in her own beliefs, she like Terrik over here who again, happy in others and that goes true for Pim and for even holds for, say this guy over here, Richard, other beliefs, he denies the validity all We may be a believing planet, but most of means that even if Sarah holds to her religion why everybody else holds to their own misguided And that holds true for everybody else. So this takes us to a simple but remarkable Normally, the discussion of science and religions, what's wrong, what's true, what's false. But here we see that even if a given religion all. We still need to ask why it is that so many We have to ask yourself, what is it about and meaning and, in particular, to find the 1936, this guy over here, Albert Einstein who had asked Einstein about his own religious Everyone who is seriously involved in the some spirit is manifested in the laws of the One that is vastly superior to that of man. In this way the pursuit of science leads to is surely quite different from the religiosity Much has been made about Einstein's use of writings made very clear that he was speaking religion. The word of God is, for me, nothing more than The bible a collection of honorable, but still childish. No interpretation no matter how subtle can, Charles Darwin, the Father of Evolution by of God. I have never denied the existence of God. I think the theory of evolution is fully compatible I think the greatest argument for the existence and understanding that the immense universe, result of chance. At the same time, Darwin also noted that a could emerge from the interplay between biological Nor must we overlook the probability of the the minds of children, producing so strong not yet fully developed that it would be as in God as for a monkey to throw off its instinctive The Dalai Lama has his own iconic perspective Both Buddhism and modern science shared a whether conceptualized as a transcendent being, soul, or as a fundamental substratum of reality. Both Buddhism and science prefer to account and life in terms of the complex interrelations From the methodological perspective, both In the Buddhist investigation of reality, should triumph over scriptural authority, may be. Years ago, I had the pleasure of sharing the took place down in Texas and I had an opportunity The question is asked was, I said, &quot;Look, the case that what we're doing in modern physics of ideas that ultimately find their origin So I asked him, &quot;Is this true? Is this your perspective?&quot; And he very forthrightly said, he said, &quot;Look, that's where we have something to offer science.&quot; But he said, &quot;When it comes to understanding all that detail about how the world actually So it was a kind of remarkable moment where and broad embrace of science. At the same time there are great scientists Here's Nobel Laureate, William Phillips. The point is that there are plenty of scientists their science and serious about their faith. I know plenty of others, and you've see nevertheless there is a common misperception And here's Francis Collins, head of the National I think most people are actually kind of comfortable to learn about nature, but it's not the whole for faith, for theology, for philosophy. But that harmony perspective doesn't get as Nobody's as interested in harmony as they 2015, Pew Research Foundation found that the statement that science and religion are often that was almost 60% and that again is often Science versus religion. That is an important question. It may come up here tonight, but it's not tonight. And so we're asking ourselves, can we use Can we gain some understanding of why people beyond the laws of physics? Is that need written into our DNA? The natural selection for that kind of worldview, Why in the world does this world have so many That's the question. And to deal with this question, try to gain and I'd like to now bring them out to the Our first participant is professor emerita she taught anthropology for 28 years, author on the Plate, How Animals Grieve, and Evolving Please join me in welcoming our first guest Our next guest is a research scientist at He's also professor of cognitive and affective Institute where he is the principle science Please join me in welcoming neuroscience, Also with us tonight is a university distinguished with appointments at Harvard Medical School In addition to the book, How Emotions Are papers. Please join me in welcoming Lisa Barrett. All right, finally. Our guest is the Johnstone Professor of Psychology prize finalist and author of the bestselling Language Instinct, a pioneer and champion Magazine's 100 Most Influential People, please All right, so we're going to have a pretty to try to address some of these questions into three parts, roughly speaking. A kind of trinity of parts, befitting for We're going to talk about some of the history We're going to talk about the longevity, the with us for some time. Then we're going to focus on the benefit, with the world. What I'd like to do before getting started, nice small group here, it's good to get a kind of discussion, so if we could just sort of where you ... We'll do it ... If you don't willing to share it, just a couple of words Steven, you willing to just say a few words? You mean our own beliefs personally? If you don't mind. You don't have to, but if you're willing to. Yeah. Well, I don't believe in the existence of spirits, genies, devils, and so on. I am a ... I belong to the same tribe as you. I'm Jewish and appreciate many of the iconography, other cultural groups, but that doesn't mean don't. Right. Lisa. I would say Steve pretty summed it up pretty We practice some rituals in our home as sort artifacts, but they are kind of artifacts If we decide to light candles on Friday night, schlepped from Russia and that people have meaningful. I also think that Judaism is an interesting somewhat more behavior over intent, which I would say we're ... colloquially we're atheists we do have trappings of, as I said, of ritual Yep. Zoran. I was raised as atheist, but later discovered Like, science has an answer to everything. It's a form of religion, I think for some Personally, I have practiced meditation for this mystical unitary states are known to both unitary consciousness, either alone or I'm interested what it does to a person and Right. Barbara. Growing up in New Jersey, I was raised as in church. I know identify also as an atheist. When I travel, I do find myself drawn to churches, to looking at the art and the architecture. I think that is a beautiful part of our history, And for my own sense of spirituality, I go Right. So, you know, there are some curious human I think ... I don't know how much of this dunked his head in a bucket of ice water every Ben Franklin is said to have stood naked in Nikola Tesla, you know, a great champion and to curl his toes a hundred times each night So you sort of hear those, you raise your But, we don't feel the need to explain that that is pervasive and that lasts for thousands explanation and that's really why we're having So, maybe start with you, Barbara. When I hear the word faith or religion, my major religions that are practiced in the Is that too limited of you? Yeah, I think it's a very natural view, but do that heat sensing map of the world, we or don't believe in God, but also many, many in the forest, venerate ancestors, or have So, I think broadening our view to understand the past but now, to believe is a very helpful Now, you've also done work where you've gone Absolutely, yes. My work is in animals and there's a fascinating is reasonable to suggest that other animals or religiosity and there's very invigorated You know, Jane Goodall was the very first chimpanzees may be spiritual. But this is continued over decades. This is not my view. I am not suggesting that chimpanzees are spiritual Where I come in is suggesting that their behavior we see in our closest living relative gives of what later became our religiosity. So, we know that chimpanzees, for example as a sense of awe and wonder. We know that chimpanzees can take the perspective We know that they can show empathy, compassion, own rules. And so I think that we wouldn't be where we includes, of course, not only living apes, other human ancestors. Early Homo sapiens, Neanderthals. So, just as culture evolved, language evolved human religious imagination evolved. So, Steve, part of what we're doing here is evolution and sort of how they can play off evolution in psychology is dedicated to trying Can you just give us a sense of what evolutionary insight into these kinds of issues? Well, the brain, like other complex organs, selection. That if there are circuits in the brain that selection is the explanation for how they And we're going to ask of various psychological That is, whether they increased the chances For a lot of psychological features that's It's no mystery why we see in stereo, because to get a sense of the third dimension. Why we're repulsed by kinds of substances Why we find certain partners sexually attractive. For religion, it's a religious belief. For supernatural belief, it's not so obvious. I don't think there's any accepted theory Rather, it can be a by-product of other adaptations. In particular, the ability to attribute minds We can't literally get inside people's heads. A mind is invisible, colorless, odorless, beings unless we assume that other people We interpret their behavior in terms of their From there it may be a short step to attribute beings, such as to trees and rivers and the We attribute minds to inanimate entities, it idolatry. Or to no hunk of matter in particular, in Disembodied souls and spirits and father-like but have this thing that we naturally attribute So it would be an extension. One would then have to explain why the adaptation called theory of mind, or mentalizing or mind be so easy to overextend it to entities that And there, part of the answer comes from experience, lives that makes this belief congenial and that before the advent of modern neuroscience, of brains was not so farfetched. There's actually some compelling and empirical Edward Tyler I think was the originator of it's apparent that some part of us is up and body's in bed the whole time. A natural hypothesis is that our ... some but can part company from it. Or in death, if someone suddenly collapses, a few minutes ago, but something seems to beforehand. And reflections in still water, shadows, seem their activity, their expressions, their goal And again, divorced from the actual hunk of If you're in a trance from lack of sleep, is that your mind can part company from your So, if you combine those experiences with not farfetched to think that minds can exist Now we know better. We know that the brain is the locus of experience, can be vulnerable to illusions, dreaming being There's brain activity when we're asleep and But, before modern neuroscience, it wasn't One other ingredient is that we depend for believe a lot of things that I have no basis Like quantum physics. Yeah, like superstrings. I really believe- I do, because very smart people tell me that I don't say they exist. They may exist. That they may exist. I give some non-zero probability of that. That opens up a niche for people to market including gods and messiahs, and devils and I won't talk about now is, what are the incentives What's in it for them to get other people There are plenty of reasons, but that's the Now presume the overactive assigning of agency version of it, right? If you're walking around and there's a rock so be it, but if you're walking around and a mind, you don't think it can attack you, So, evolutionary speaking, presumably this value. Possibly. It's not so clear. If it involves making sacrifices that are manipulated by others, maybe not. But it may just be that the overall benefit the cost in cases where others can exploit In the case of animals, of course, animals crazy thing. Indeed, a lot of ... In some hunter-gatherer of intentionality to the animals they hunt are trying to escape them for the same reason So, that degree of extension is not so farfetched. It's when it comes to rocks and rivers and more problematic. Right. So, Lisa, what is your view in terms of are not an important part of the equation? I think it is actually. When we say ... When you ask are we wired couple of different things, right? So, in a sense, you could say, well, all brains, extent, is wired to make predictions about happened in the past. So, brains are not wired to react to things It's metabolically efficient to predict. Physiologically, most of the biological systems extent. And so, if you mean ... A lot of people talk I mean, our brains for example, change the sensory input arriving to the brain. That's how you're understanding the words You've had a lifetime of experience of patterns, to and the patterns in their temporal contingencies. All brains work like this and if you believe scientists do write about predictions this that are preemptively offered to anticipate yes, we are wired. Another way in which we're wired, you could But that's for belief in things presumably That's belief in any case, right? So, the idea that the brain is wired for prediction it's a general computational approach to understanding So, that means making meaning of fluctuating sights, as vision. It's making meaning of fluctuating changes And it's also making meaning of changes that changes which we would think of as an episode Little infant brains, you know, newborn brains adult brain. It's not completely ... it's wiring isn't are doing to some extent, is they're waiting world. The brain expects certain inputs in order itself both to the physical circumstances it grows up in. We encourage ... So, that's sort of the normal to being wired for belief, but we also wire We indulge them. In our culture, we indulge them in believing cars and their little toys and some people have minds, right? So, we do ... that's another way in which sense of development actually influences the Then there, we could also talk about feelings That to some extent feeling is believing. When you believe ... When you feel something it and feeling is at the core of the wiring most mammalian brains. Some people would like to make that argument, I'm going to come back to that in a for Zoran, brain. Do you feel that there's evidence that we're for religious belief? Yeah, I wouldn't so much ... Yes. As much as brain is I think organized to be and indirectly for beliefs just as Steve and I think something happened to us, to our species, We don't know when, maybe 3000 years ago, Suddenly, we became conscious. We became conscious in very unique way. It's not just we have experience, or that that we are conscious. We have implicit knowing that we are conscious. We have an expression of religiosity going 3000 years ago, maybe longer actually, but people were really trying to figure out what We're conscious, what is it? Who is this person who is conscious? What is it that's conscious inside us. And also, what is this universe? The way it appears when we perceive it with the surface of our mind, but with the deepest And so that gives rise to some very kind of of human mind that we have records of. When we look at the ... What I personally religious practices, pretty much in every experiences, experiences of consciousness They can be either very deep mental silence then there is either just complete blackness Consciousness itself. Doesn't think, doesn't feel, doesn't need it's conscious innately, directly. Doesn't have to think. Doesn't have to take itself as an object. Just consciousness itself. Then, that deepest part of ourselves, if it then the quality of our experience changes where I'm over here, I am limited to my body, my mind has constructed and learned over the is, how to relate to each other, how I relate So, we have this elaborate self-world model experience. That takes a break temporarily, however briefly, is one reality. One interdependent, but also at the same time, the experience and encompasses everything. I think that religiosity tried to capture When the theistic religion says that God is all things. So, in all things. In this experience here that we're having, this is the experience of God being transcendent That is one way of saying it, right? I didn't look at it that way, but that's very So, another way to say it is that we have One side is mind that creates experience. The other side is awareness which is just It simply register what is happening without The two are different. In this view, they're separated by the substrate Matrix. It actually exists in the universe, they say. I don't. What's interesting, what happens is when the it just finds itself. It finds attention, it finds intelligence, it doesn't know how, it can't penetrate through And then it's basically concludes there is It's just a mental processes, right? From the side of awareness, what the substrate It can't recognize what it is directly so having experience. From that perspective, spirituality and spiritual It's trying to figure out what it is. So, Barbara, can you take us back to the earliest self-reflection that ultimately we think may The first thing I'd like to start and say attribute intentionality to a lot of animals, So, we certainly don't have a corner on the or sentience or any of these other things. But if we're going to talk about the human species is about 200,000 years old. Our genus is around 2.4 million years old. So the question becomes when do we start seeing It's very interesting that there's a cave the home of this human, perhaps ancestor, and apparently there were numbers of individuals a very deep, subterranean chamber in this So, Rising Star is a very famous project in live feeds of the scientists trying to study these incredibly small passageways. And yet, we know that approximately 250,000 dead in very intentional ritual ways, going to do this. The problem becomes- Beside the fact that they're bringing the controversial. The next step... But whether it was a ritual burial. Exactly. The next step is controversial because of that belief doesn't fossilize, so we don't and we have our minds and as we're talking to figure this out. But isn't it the case though that it's ... the discovered, let's say Homo neanderthals skeletons and posed in a particular way with things Like in Sungir, right? Right, but we're going in a kind of order We have the roots of Neanderthal populations the Neanderthal burials don't come to a hundred Sungir in Russia, which is a Homo sapiens So, my idea is that, again, we have some glimmers Now, let's just fast forward, let me leap Neanderthals. They are not our ancestors. They are our cousins. We used to say that they lived from 200 something We no longer say that because here in the material and many populations, except some Neanderthals in Africa, we find just as you burials with all kinds of grave goods. So people didn't just stick people in the They marked the graves as something special. To give you one example, there's a 40,000 Spain, with a hearth all around, 60 sets of This was a place that mattered. In some sense we can think of it as a sacred The question is, is there belief in an afterlife? Is there belief in supernatural beings? How would we know? We're imposing a great deal of our framework Keep going in time, we come to cave art. And, of course, we're familiar with the cave These are not only early Homo sapiens, but We do know that now. This is a relatively recent discovery, that fascinating for me about this is you have these people hunted, but in addition to that, A bird-headed man in Lascaux cave in France. A human that is part bison. Some other just wild figures. So this is not just people representing the an interest in what is not in front of you, We fast forward one more time. We go to Turkey, to this particular, perhaps on a hill in Turkey. Massive 50 ton blocks that people moved onto largely animal, images. We think this is a ritual space. Not everyone agrees. This is contentious. But in every single case there is a good argument brain uncoupling itself from the here and supernatural. And we have hints. We have to go forward in time again before system. But again, the reason that I think the human these earlier cues. Right, right. I think it's important ... I think that Barbara's that is, we're all talking ... We're sort and religiosity are identical forms of meaning There are many, many ways to be spiritual. Some involve belief in a supernatural deity Some of them ... sometimes spirituality means larger than you, that transcends itself transcendence, As Einstein was saying in his book. Exactly, and I think ... So, one way to think the evolution of religious thought or spiritual of spiritual thought, we have to be thinking psychological features here. One has to do with connecting to something might transcend you. One element or feature is about explanation, Another is about agency. And so those may not have all evolved at the for all people, so maybe everyone in this They might not call it that, but they've had that's bigger than themselves that leaves take the additional steps of trying to find in that and so forth. But if we do go and focus on beliefs that reality that you were a part of and goes toward typically would not confirm, do you see the that would lead to a brain that would have It's hard to give an adaptive explanation There can be an adapter of explanation for are not infallible and they can be misled an interest in promulgating certain explanations. I think what you have to direct the question with particular religions, but just in particular the world, ways in which people influence What are the kinds of things that we can hypothesize to hypothesizing which, from the perspective can nonetheless be very seductive to a mind So what's your view say of those who've made much in the actual belief in things that perhaps the group cohesion that that can yield if is shared, then all of a sudden you've got Does that hold any weight for you at all? There is a folk theory of evolution that adaptations there is some mysterious aspect of human psychology value is, people will say, &quot;Well, it fosters Why do we enjoy music? Group cohesion. Why do we dance? Group cohesion. But there a couple things wrong with that I'm very deeply suspicious of the explanation One of them is, group cohesion is not, in It selects for propagation of genes. Sometimes groups, cohesive groups can help but if a group is too cohesive, you could You could be cannon fodder. You could be a sacrificial victim for the But any gene that would allow you to be exploited genes are selected much more quickly than Also, I think it's too easy to use our own over religion and so on, but that is itself Why would beliefs in invisible entities make You can't take that for granted. That's as much of a puzzle to a psychologist But we do see, we do see evidence of that We do, although ... the supernatural beliefs There are wars of religion and precisely because derived from shared experience. They're not things that everyone can just They're things you have to be told. And that means that if you're told by different you can go to war over those beliefs. That's why I think that group cohesion doesn't belief. Lisa, do you have a different view of that? I have ... yes, I think I have a different You can be contentious. You could just like- at all. Anyone who knows me, knows this is true. Here's what I want to say, that I think that which is there are two that I can think of system in the following way. First of all, uncertainty is tremendously And I don't mean stress in a euphemistic way. I mean it adds a metabolic burden to a nervous someone sick and I think religious beliefs They sometimes explain the unexplainable. Things that we now might explain through science, by a deity. So, I think in some ways it is not just psychologically potentially less ... it reduces people's stress. It reduces their, what scientists would call Very simply, just step back one minute and and see and feel, but in order to regulate As our bodies got more complex, brains got A brain's main job is to keep the systems propagate your genes to the next ... let me I know you're going to disagree, but ... for the resources in your body and it's not salt and so on and so forth. And so, if you think about your brain running that budget. Drains that budget much faster and makes it There's also, I think, a social aspect to animals, we evolved to be social animals. It's one of our major adaptive advantages, But what that means is that we regulate each We don't bear that body budget on our own. We have other people to help us do it. There are other social species, right? So, insects are social, and they regulate through scent. Rats, and some mammals, add touch and they We, as primates, have all of those ways to Plus, we have ideas that we share. And so, there are many ways in which religious on the nervous system. Is there data for that? I mean, is there data that really makes a does reduce ... I'm not advocating this, I'm just saying as There are data to show that people who ... I any of the challenges or problems that religious I'm just saying that there is this other side are religious actually are somewhat happier But that's because, of course, they're living believe. Steve, you had a response again. Barbara ... yeah. I just really wanted to make the point that human exceptionalism when we keep asking things that we were religious, or did being religious are we not asking about orcas, for example. Orcas are exquisitely cohesive and they do as individuals and they solve their problems God. And chimpanzees manage to do this without So, I think that in addition to the problems arguments, that they're thrown out constantly and we can see that there are so many different If we only look at our species and we don't We're not going to get answers to these questions. Yeah. Steve. Lisa, I agree that are religious belief can can be an explanation as to why it's adaptive. Because the fact that uncertainty leads to ... we're missing some information that's we get stressed and nervous that motivates in a way that keeps us safe even in the state But there can't be an adaptation to reduce That is, by being certain about something, not true. Because if I'm really nervous, say because convinces me, no, it's actually a rabbit appearing reduce my stress, but it's not an adaptation. Fair enough, fair enough. So Barbara, you gave us some history of where back in human history. What's your sense of why it has persisted I tend to come back to this issue of community Because I think if we shift the perspective texts, which we tend to do in today's world. You know, you put up a slide that talked about and Islam and that's one important aspect world's people, there is just something that's that sense of ritual practice and that sense And it is ... Sure, it's possible to try to those same things, but there is something the transcendence that I think is important. When you bring those two elements together, that emotional meaning making. And one of the things that i like very much there's faith in other animals is the idea always be about text and belief. So I think that that helps us understand this The idea ... I think about what Martin Buber when he wrote that all of real life is encounter. There's something that's particularly transporting and I really feel it has something to do with But clearly, when we talk about the spirituality of the secularization that's happening in If that really were to be considered an instinct, that we're undergoing? So people are finding humanism communities, transcendent connection. I think there's a balance between what continues communities forward together with new ways that are coming about. The ways that people can experience religion I mean, they extend into communities with They extend to virtual realities, virtual but also the idea that we're beginning to We know Emily Dickinson's church, right? Well, we also know that one of the beauties others, is not only understanding our own with other animals. And so, I think there's the possibility that different ways of sharing transcendence as So does that transcendence relate to ... I that all religions begin with an awareness So, is that transcendence profoundly connected it? I think you've hit on an important thing. Part of my last six years of my work has been of animal grief and animal mourning. And I'm not suggesting, again, to be very sense of death, but they have a deep awareness Can you give an example? I mean, that's... Yeah, I can give loads of examples. For example, with elephants we know that the There was one particular example in Africa. A particular community of scientists who followed to this particular matriarch who had died. Her name was Eleanor. Not only her family, but matriarchs of other Some stood vigil over the body, some rocked Others showed distress. So my definition of animal grief involves Social withdrawal, failure to eat, failure But it's not only the, what I call the usual cetaceans and elephants where we see this. My research is showing that we find it in in Arizona, chickens, all sorts of domestic And again, what I think is so important about the same awareness of death that we have, loss. That is emotional meaning making and that's of a transcendent experience in an animal for this discussion. So, Steve, let me ask you. Transcendent experience, community, is one provides. On the other side of the discussion, you've You got people like Pascal Boyer, and various a mechanism. The spreading of ideas. The spreading of memes, you know? An idea jumps from brain to brain, to brain that we are naturally attuned to and therefore spread, among them being the very ideas that Is that an approach that you think gives us about it? Yeah, because what puzzles us when we try is not so much why people mourn the dead, their lives because it does profoundly affect If you didn't mourn someone when they were them when they were alive? That is, in a sense an easier set of reactions What puzzles about religion is belief in the all of the other contentful beliefs that go of the cosmos or loss in the sense of death. That's where Pascal Boyer and Dennis Barbour to such specific beliefs as opposed to emotional There, I should actually credit Pascal Boyer we're apt to attribute minds to others as subject to religious beliefs that leads to Right. So, Lisa, what's your view on these two sort experience and perhaps something that just stick inside a brain that evolved to perform I think that both of those explanations to I'm not really sure if you're referring to actually rooted in our sociality as a species, we regulate each other. We do, in very substantial ways and in ways of how we do this is we create meaning that virtue of collective agreement. What I mean by that is ... We're talking here, non-human animals feel grief and so on. Non-human animals feel loss, for sure. I think there's no question that that's the I think there's no question that's the case, that there is no inherent emotional meaning from your body. What we do is ... humans, is we learn to impose So, a scowling face for example, is not a People only scowl about 25% of the time when times when they're not and there are many who don't recognize a scowl as anger, for In many cultures, and it's an interesting just hold that aside for a moment, what we we impose meaning on a scowl and by virtue actually literally takes on that meaning and next. What I mean by this is it sort of works in There's no inherent ... Nothing that's ever so by virtue of its physical nature alone. What happens is a group of humans impose a or salt, or barley, or big rocks in the ocean number of things and all of a sudden, those They can be traded for material goods only someone moves their agreement, when people agreement, those things no longer have value. Well, emotions are kind of built in the same Heart rates change, faces move, distress can helps to regulate your body budget and you a part of yourself because sort of you have your nervous system. We impose meaning on those physical events I mean the physical events take on those meanings agree that that's the case. I think that in my view, this is partly why in a sense because we often as part of our the ability to create meaning. The ability to create something real where of collective agreement. We impose meaning on something physical and meaning. To some extent, I think we also do this with So, when a group of people are all together or wonderstruck at something in nature, there's for creating a meaning that wasn't there before, the moment and so, I don't see these ends I see them as kind of emerging out of the So, in the remaining time, maybe we can just maybe we could start with you, Barbara. Mm-hmm (affirmative). There's been a view that's been around for kind of pushes out the need for religion, so forth. Now it's suggested over time that the role Do you imagine that that is the pattern that and oblique way of thinking about the role will be? Yeah, it's interesting. I feel two things at the same time. I do think that the increasing tendency towards thing. I mean, I did say that I am here speaking We certainly want to be able to think clearly in this world and we know, all of us know particular way. At the same time, I think it's really important and the number of people in the world who who don't even, in some cases, have a word I'm not suggesting that that makes them different at all. We know that all human populations have the But sometimes, just being religious is just It's so much a part of the era, of the way is going to change. I think these are two different ways of looking I'd be interested to hear what other people Why don't we go right down the line. Zoran, do you have any ... to experience the spirituality, to be able ourselves. And so, if it fulfills that role for people, purpose. I hope that as the ages go, the science and smoothly. I think that for that, really we just need Lisa, thoughts on the future? I think I would stand by my descriptions that religious belief, but I think there are also Steve has talked about and I think it ... From wonder whether or not the disadvantages outweigh Because there are other meaning making systems make sense of the world, some of which may They may have the advantages of religious So, I probably lean more in the direction that, to investigate that. Steve, thoughts on that? Several trends in the overall historical archival have become more humanistic. They don't take their literal beliefs as seriously If you're a real, believing Christian and going to go to hell, then you really ought And you really ought to slay heretics. You'd be doing ... It's like a great public You're saving eternity of suffering in hell But most Christians, no matter how seriously people at sword point anymore. They don't have inquisitions and they're not benign hypocrisy among many believers that of their religious beliefs and that's been The institutions persist with the all-encompassing Another is that when people switch their religious toward no religion at all, so the world is There are two reasons why that may seem hard One of them is that religious people have people is actually increasing, and projected switch are switched in the direction of no The other is that religious groups tend to So, the problem with secularists and humanists, is people with no religion, is they don't Evangelicals all vote. I shouldn't say all. Something like 80% of evangelicals vote, 25% And so there's a outsized influence of religion Our perception of the growing influence of it is pushed along by the greater fecundity religious, even as the overall direction is including the United States, which was a ... for western democracy had become less religious The United States is now moving in that direction One final question which is sort of the inverse in thinking about animals and their reactions What if we flip it the other way? So, a hundred years from now, or 500 years and we show them what we've learned in math they ... you know, we're all sort of good. But then we show them our religious beliefs. Do you think that they'll look at that and You know, we've got out Jesus too.&quot; Or will they be completely baffled as to what Barbara, thoughts on that? Wild speculation. I have no idea the answer to that question. Fair enough. If I had to guess, I would guess baffled. I think that if you think about how 500 years right? And now, we can go all kinds of things with Well, think of the aliens come and they understand right? And they can use consciousness that we use It's not any kind of mysterious thing for That's I think where it's going. Lisa? I don't think they'll be baffled and I don't mean, I'm just ... I'm not even speculating, I think that they will see it as part of the development of a species and maybe something became unnecessary at a certain point. Final thoughts on that one, Steve? I tend to agree there. It may be similar to our attitudes towards come across. We can ... or an intelligible but we might Do you think that they will have had a similar I know there ... Is this an intrinsic part evolve that can survive that will necessarily about what those agents do and the role that happened to the human species? A great question, a profound one, but I suspect depend on reciprocal mentalizing, attributing I suspect it does, but a speculation and if in the history of an intelligent species that of cognitive organization to entities that Very good. So, one day we may find the answer to that me in thanking the group here.