Almost five years ago I brought you a video Lightsource had developed a very smart piece of power from a solar farm to the grid right through storage. Sounds highly unfeasible, doesn't honesty. They were actually using the INVERTERS harness incoming energy from the grid and kind to provide what the tech bods call a So, the power WAS technically COMING FROM energy from the sun. Because of course that Well, you say that... but a team of of New South Wales in Australia beg to differ. highlighting a technology that really does the nighttime to produce an electrical current. Hello and welcome to just have a think counter-intuitive at first glance, So, what's going on here? Is it a genuine that only works in a laboratory and proves let's work through the detail to see if We'll start with a quick reminder typical solar photovoltaic or PV panel. it arrives as photons of various wavelengths at the blue and violet end of the spectrum carry towards the red end of the spectrum carry less silicon which is where all the action happens. At sort of structure of bands. They don't actually but this is the easiest way to illustrate what I'm please forgive me. Anyway, we've got something bound to atoms. Then we've a conduction ban at a their atomic orbits and are free to move around. band gap. For a photon to knock an electron band it has to have enough energy to allow which in silicon happens to be about 1.1 electron technicalities of what electron volts are here, we towards the infra-red end of the spectrum, pass and photons with too much energy, towards but will also dissipate all their excess energy cell. Photons with the right amount of energy use from the valence band to the conduction band it leaves a hole in the valence band where the negatively charged, the hole effectively a process called an electron-hole pair. It gets doped silicon layer that has lots of holes and a but essentially the important principle is that and we can use that to make an electrical We did a deeper dive on the whole Solar PV process link to that one in the description section as So, what earth-shattering insight have our as I'm sure most of you learned folks already the day, as sunlight hits it, and then gives that space as infra-red radiation, mostly during the if that nighttime release didn't happen then our we wouldn't be here now. Those of you with a keen you, will most likely also know that our current gases in our atmosphere that have just the right photons and prevent them escaping back out into But I've covered that in dozens of previous I'm sure you're way ahead of me already folks at New South Wales Uni have indeed produced Here's an image that the team took of the how infra-red heat is radiating out. It's Capturing that heat is easier said than done recently it wasn't considered an option at all. a couple of years back and published their semiconductor device called a thermoradiative you can find in night-vision goggles. diode represents a symmetrical counterpart harnessing absorbed light to generate a current, emission of light from a relatively warm region to speak, the team measured the electro-optical photodiodes across a range of bandgap energies in In an interview with the Australian Phoebe Pearce, explained it like this. electricity by absorbing sunlight emitted from a electricity by emitting infrared light into a difference is what lets us generate electricity," was... "Is it a genuine breakthrough or works in a laboratory and proves to So, here's your caveat. And I have to say it's device in its current iteration is the size of power it produces is...a hundred thousand but NO DON'T SWITCH OFF...stick with me here. on the low side. It is, according to the research 'unambiguous demonstration of electrical power'. "at a temperature differential of only twelve thermoradiative electrical power density metre with an estimated radiative efficiency of need for achieving high radiative efficiencies the promise of thermoradiative power generation." stuff, that's for sure. But once it's fully laboratory, the team reckon it could potentially to run your home Wi-Fi for example or, generate enough electricity from your own body that currently rely on costly and relatively tiny amounts of energy up into billions of interesting and worthwhile, don't you think? Wales team's ambition either. twenty-twenty-four ABC article is that they above our planet for space craft and satellites. International Space Station hurtles around our miles an hour, each day lasts 90 minutes, split a forty-five-minute period of darkness. panels provide the power during the light period, of sight. So, the team is currently focussed from infra-red radiation during those eclipse they're aiming to have a thermo-radiative to test in space within a couple of years. out how to power your home WITHOUT batteries or totally off-grid lifestyle, then yeah, what a bozo I am in the comments section me, and you might need to form an orderly queue. with my videos, is that we're not chasing after energy problem we face. That silver bullet just different solutions that utilise the freely the myriad different challenges in all sorts of And in that spirit, I reckon this Anyway, like I say, the comments so now's the time to jump down there and leave read and respond to as many of them as possible. a massive thank you to the amazing folks who and enable me to keep ads and sponsorship messages out to the folks whose names are scrolling up the anniversary of Patreon support in the past you feel like you could support the channel then pop over to Patreon dot com forward slash that and have a look at all the exclusive perks you can hugely support me absolutely for free by and clicking on all notifications Doesn't cost away, either down there or on that icon there. great week, and remember to just have a think.