The all-new, redesigned M4 Mac that's what Apple thinks its worth, because check with its 16 gigs of RAM and 256 gig SSD, and storage--changing nothing else, the price of the that's right, your brain has not deceived could get *two* base-model Mac minis with the same saying that the entire second Mac mini, with its power supply, case, cooling assembly, and all... Apple values it at *less than nothing.* On it's not quite as simple as hurr-durr, You see, while I've yet to do these benchmark numbers speak for themselves. entirety of computing. Seriously. Forget the of power it sips from the wall. Objectively that outperforms this machine for $600, using new I spent a few hours picking out different save money wherever possible--and I came from the last WAN Show. It begins with but within single digit performance of I got this thing for just $210. It's just beat the M4 in multi-core performance, simultaneous multithreading--a stark contrast Now onto the second component where we already the motherboard. Look... there's just no-way-no-how the Mac mini has--not to mention the other two board I could find without spending my entire B650 with the additional $115 ThunderboltEX 4 Thunderbolt 4 ports. Now, I can already hear keeb switches saying: "oh-nooo waaaa--nobody cares That may be true, but just because you don't are worthless. Furthermore, it even further it useful or not, it is something Apple spent a But fine, I too will pretend it doesn't exist and only one measly 5Gbps USB-C port and 3 USB-A there's gigabit Ethernet onboard because we do The rest of the components are about sacrificing performance: 16GB of 5600MHz to match Apple's, a $17 Thermalright Assassin and the chintziest power supply EVGA is and a case? Ha! We don't have money No, I didn't forget about a GPU... see, Apple graphics performance, but look at the room for some fancy-pants 4060. In fact, we and respectable like the RX 6600. We're gonna can currently buy--the NVIDIA 3050 with just be purchased by absolutely nobody. Luckily with internal graphics on Apple's base-model chip, With the machine fully assembled, $40 over-budget, it's time to pit it against Apple's are... oh, boy... things are not looking so good for to hold its own in Geekbench and Cinebench--getting performance, but not quite pulling it off. 25-40% worse. It's just flat-out slower. How difficult to compare given the M4 utilizes a combination of OpenGL, DirectX, and Vulkan: held its own pretty well. That lead does begin to Mac leading in both gaming and AI applications. however slight, coming out on top in both continues in real-world use, with the PC Neural Engine in the Mac obliterates on the whole, it's frankly not close. data--let's not forget the size and the power our PC is pushing 300 watts from the wall while you cannot buy a faster computer for $600 at any But don't gloat yet, Mac Daddies, because on any single upgrade option, the machine becomes null and void because from exorbitant to absolutely insane and "why are you talking about this? It Let's go on the Internet Archive shall we? Back in years; the first to gain an SSD (and the last upgrade from 16 to 32 gigs of RAM? Oh, literally about the SSD? Oh, yep, no, those upgrade prices you think that's bad? Oh, buddy buckle up. How is before USB-C. Before AirPods. Barack Obama is black-and-blue or gold-and-white. It's for the same jump in capacity on both memory and worse. Enter, the 2012 MacBook Pro. Apple's and no DVD drive. Gahng-nam style is #1 on the and Instagram photos look like this... It costs 512GB--and that includes a processor upgrade! increase of this caliber a scam? No! There but it was within reason. Apple's upgrade prices And I know that there are Apple fans out Apple's component selection is better than dingbats, wake up and smell the roses. The 2TB than twice as slow as leading PCIe SSDs--and and what do they cost? Literally a fraction of reliability. Now, I could *maybe* forgive pricing it is on-package and it is unified; shared between So is the Snapdragon X Elite's memory--found Lenovo is one such example and they charge... oh... I will say this: 16GB as the new base most casual users (8 was not), and while this ambitions than by sheer generosity, it's still not only did Apple bring it to computers that but they even brought it to pseudo-discontinued But that's where my praise stops. The base storage okay. Even for people who live mostly in the third-party apps installed, you're out of space. configuration are people that don't understand the Genius Bar because their computer has become and are ultimately told: sorry! "You probably you cheaped out and oh, yeah, there's no fix the PCB. Or in the case of the Mac mini--keyed, but It's a garbage experience for literally everyone that brags about its push for complete carbon a reason no other PC OEM retains 256 gig SSDs either. Oh wait, no there is one. It's Microsoft. Upgrade the stalwart Mac mini to 32gigs of starting down the barrel of an it's a machine that's only "mini" in size, PCs. Throw in an RTX 4070 Ti SUPER, the Apple, only you can end the madness. for the planet, and find other ways to return won't tolerate this much longer. Thanks so