[music] In 1990 Vauxhall was on top of the world. the early 1980s, meant Vauxhall's well The third generation Cavalier had continued those Astra and Nova that completed their mass car the Vectra, would do just as well? I'm that that didn't happen, but why? This is the Vauxhall / Opel / [music] Vauxhall got a shock when the Ford Mondeo replaced by a car that was hoovering Cavalier would have a much harder fight for But where the Mondeo was a completely replacement would borrow the platform from the with a class-leading 0.28 drag factor and more power and overall were 5% more fuel efficient. long running Opel Ascona. The Ascona had got while Vauxhall kept the Cavalier name, but to consolidate their car names in Europe, so the Nova became the Corsa, and the Vauxhall The new car launched at the Frankfurt Motor Show the Peugeot 406 and the Volvo S40. But in the UK main competition was the Ford Mondeo. Vauxhall new front and rear suspension, but early reviews wanting compared to the Mondeo, bland almost. more than the old car, and 45kg (99lb) heavier There were good reasons for this though. There and side impact structures to meet stricter leg injuries and improved airbags. Then there up with and hopefully surpass the competition. The new Escort in 1990 got savaged by the less agile and had worse fuel economy than the Ford quickly learnt their lesson; they'd but clearly Vauxhall hadn't been paying attention. Shame it hadn't been designed of the Cavalier to the Vectra couldn't match the Inside things were well laid out, clear and occasional problem, like the armrest getting wheel which some drivers just couldn't get in the the standard equipment was only a radio upmarket Vectra CD didn't get a compact disc on the "CARIN" sat nav upgrade from Philips that The worst, and most memorable Vectra review came Jeremy Clarkson, growing into his role as motoring if you could call it that, because he spent his worth it as it was such a terrible car. the sad fact was all Brits could talk about was customers that had a choice between a Mondeo and The previous car had been produced in Brazil began production there in 1996. The launch was car for the new Brazilian Indy car race. in 1996. If reviewers hated how they were hardly going to like a cargo carrier! as used models came on the market they were a good The Cavalier had been well received, and the The new car would take part in various touring It got close to winning but didn't get get a sporty road-going Vectra the SRi V6 in That engine made it fast, but as Mazda MX-5 owners and the Vectra's gearbox, steering and handling Many years before the Vectra launched, General other brands. The Vectra, well the Opel Vectra, already been used for the Vauxhall/Opel/Holden Saab 900 in 1994. It was used for the larger series in 1999. Vectra production would expand as sold as the Holden Vectra to unsuspecting Ozzies. uprated to 220hp (162 kW). The larger right performance stats with a sub 7 second 0-60. the first four years after launch was expanding But Vauxhall and Opel were very aware of reviewers with the car with the 1999 update. The look called a more "premium, upmarket look". or even if you noticed! Vauxhall claimed 2,500 them was work to improve the ride and handling But although the steering was less vague and the still lagged and left you feeling disconnected. long journeys with front seat lumbar support. with some claiming the driver's and the steering wheel and armrest still made and it failed to capture their interest. Yes, That didn't stop the Vectra selling well in there were a lot of customers that weren't just reliability and fuel efficiency. In 1997 4th best-selling car between 1996 and 1998. and the following year there was a petrol But the company was gearing up for the next the Epsilon that would be shared with a laundry Chevrolets, a Pontiac, the large Vauxhall the Rover 75 in China, Saab, the Saturn L series This reuse was all in the future though, of the new platform was beating the Vectra's those rivals all had all been updated. The outgoing Vectra would be the last Vauxhall after nearly 100 years of Vauxhall producing SUV production would continue. As for the new The car was meant to appear in 2001, but delays spring 2002, with adverts featuring Ed Harris. 85kg (187lb) heavier than the old model, but Ford's new Mondeo was still a good handling Maybe it wasn't all about the One reason the Vectra was heavier though was 9cm (3.5") wider than the old Vectra - something in a car park. It used the CAN bus to shift of tech the car offered, including front and And although there wasn't a CD trim level any The new Vectra got better quality materials but Vauxhall hoped could best maybe Peugeot adjusted and there were all the cubbies and along with a steering wheel that finally adjusted conditioning and dual-zone climate control. the times Brits needed to shuttle their skiing occasional long thing they'd bought from B&amp;Q. their new "Interactive Driving System". with electronic brakeforce distribution and the much-maligned hydraulic steering of the from a wide range of petrol and diesel engines. decision to challenge convention and revisit the Well, that's what their marketing material said. which was "yes, we know the old car was a bit Reviewers might not have agreed with all this "finesse", which was unheard of with the old car. They declared the new car vastly better, but Vauxhall rolled out hot versions. The SXi was was fast with a 0-60 of around 8s. The SRi was the fastest with a 154mph (248 km/h) top front wheel drive, and reviewers wanted rear Like the previous car, the estate arrived a and New Zealand customers had to make do with it was the same car with more space, priced but that was no bad thing and would go on to All Vectras got an update in 2005. The new with similar performance to the GSi. Sadly, in great and there were enough stockpiled cars the last car was sold in 2007, sales ended. previous car but that wasn't because it was worse in the whole large saloon sector. With every so some customers were simply buying the next any car in fact with a three letter acronym! and it started with the 2002 Vectra. By 2007 car in the UK. That year Vauxhall announced next car would be called the Insignia. Europe. Like Vauxhall held on to their Cavalier so the new Insignia would be known as wasn't that popular though and would be "Don't misunderstand me, there's nothing the Cavalier and it fulfils the dictionary boys are not going to grow up yearning So, was Jeremy Clarkson wrong? Were and now lusts for one of your own? According to the road, although I'm guessing not too many of The late 1980s Opel Vectra was a great success, was always playing second fiddle. Maybe that's The Insignia didn't fare any better though and because the whole large executive saloon market with much love by some, but it was safe, reliable, getting them home for dinner day in, day out If you want to see the history of the Cavalier, a history of the whole Vauxhall brand right from the 1850s!