Behind me is a Bf 109, a German fighter from the cockpit. And we're going to see if I, as a 6 '2&quot;, go. You ready? So far, so good. Oh, it's getting but can I actually Oh dear, oh dear. Yeah, this is cramped. I mean, I have good forward freedom. Sideways is fine as just fine. I should be able to reach all the trim and the flaps wheel, yeah let's see that. Pitch axis, just fine. problematic. Somebody my size and inside the aircraft. But otherwise I think for it would be fine and at the time they were shorter. So why don't and see what he thinks. All right Josh I'm us Your professional You left the stick wrong. It's so snug, I can do everything in here. I can go up, I can go down. Up, I, uh, yes, I fit miraculously beautifully. Yeah, you Now, after these first impressions, I want to talk about mainly to add a few important bits and some context, as the 109's cockpit is a topic I never flown a Bf 109, I know, shocker. This does think with some research time in the cockpit as you may know I have about 60 aircraft that another 15 or so are waiting to be released. So sat inside multiple World War two cockpits by now observations about the different aircraft I met Volker Bauer who is a Bf was about my size I believe that he even possible to fly this aircraft for somebody of World War 2 Channel supporters and patrons check teaser for you How do you find the in a small box that's half feel like you're in the aircraft. So and you have no space at all. It's the aircraft centimeter space. Then though this cockpit is if the Messerschmitt -Stiftung own flying aircraft aircraft specifically perhaps by changing is a question I may ask when I though knowing them, they do take pride there are no changes indeed. Also, as you will which would take up more space. did not have the parachute bag provision, that things were generally evened out. I'm sure a seat? The answer is that in WWII the Bf 109's seat not adjustable. However, with I have an extract from a K -model flight manual, be changed. Then you may have noticed the leg open, mine were more closed. the stick better by adjusting my stance? also tried to adjust the angle of my body and my of it. My legs filled out the space, and there could figure out. I think, although I didn't ask can fly this machine so well means that he may Or maybe the roll axis just for the sort of flying that is done nowadays. controls and reading the instruments was possible aspect about the aircraft in some more detail. So anything I would say that is really, really poor. But I think, considering that has to be pointed out is that the internal In fact, ergonomically speaking, there's a lot If I just open up this portion look. If we have the stick here and the reaching for any of the important elements relatively straightforward. All of that is in space even for somebody of my size, which means have absolutely no problem with cool aspect about the Bf 109 the instrumentation, that is if you compare it to some other aircraft of the yet and these gauges were you know puzzled there's i'm just sure there was always somebody here is a very modern layout and that is really view as well and compared to some other planes is something where the Bf 109 shines at. So yeah, upwards, but from a perspective an eye on your gauges, I would say there's a lot of good stuff for me personally, sitting inside the cockpit my six. In fact, we had to pause minutes due to some construction jumped into the cockpit, closed the I almost instantaneously dozed off inside the pilots said they liked the tightness of the 109 part of the machine and I can see where they're cockpit and preferred the FW190. So as always the very own impressions of those pilots as well. you want to sit inside this 109 the description for the museum's their schedule. Let me know what you think about there anything you find surprising? Anything you the cockpit? Put it down there and to the Messerschmittstiftung access and of course to the patrons these filming trips. As always, have