I'm Mr. Beat, and one day I will die. But the good news is that right now we're all That said, if you're watching this right now and Anyway, I'm YouTube's American Presidents 39 American Presidents have died. Now, In this video, we're going to look at how I would argue that being President is of them have died while on the job. there was a period of about 122 years in Now, you could say that Presidents and that is a fair point. Still, it's no wonder the President now has to protect them. Oh, and an entire White House needs. It's a dangerous and STRESSFUL job. I While most of us hope for painless sleep....tragically many American Presidents and while we're at it, we might as well look even if sometimes those last words And let's go in chronological order at office to mix it up a bit. But uh...yeah...George Washington, our first die. He likely died of epiglottitis, which is little flap thingy at the base of the tongue that doctors who treated him didn't quite know what it up losing around 40% of his blood before he died. The second President to die was Thomas Jefferson, was John Adams, the second President, and...crazy which was July 4, 1826, which was the 50th close friendship that went back to when they the American Revolution. That said, later on In their later years, they once again became Jefferson apparently had a slow, painful death, officially caused his death were really apparently he had urine in his blood related he had pneumonia. His last words were "No, he had supposedly said "This is the Fourth." John death was more sudden than Jefferson's. Unaware his last words included "Thomas Jefferson The fourth President to die also died on the Fifth President, died from tuberculosis Jefferson and Adams. He was 73. His last words the Fourth President. They supposedly were: without again beholding him." There's no Madison was the next President to die, dying 1836. He almost died on July 4th, too, and stimulants to prolong his life until then. Anyway, he died, one of his nieces asked him what was a change of mind, my dear. I always talk better William Henry Harrison, the sixth President to into his presidency. He was 68. It's a common into pneumonia after giving a really long speech in chilly weather. Well, he DID give a two-hour a jacket on a chilly day. However, he didn't get the official cause of his death was pneumonia. actually caught typhoid from bacteria in the water understand the true principles of the government. Andrew Jackson was the next President to die. He but ultimately his heart failed him on June he also suffered from edema, which is the buildup after reacting to his family crying around him, dear children? Have I alarmed you? Oh, do not cry. Three years later, the sixth President, John 80. He had worked in Congress up until his last of Earth. I am content." Future President James Polk died far too young. He was likely from drinking contaminated water. he left office. It was crazy to see because as President he was energetic Sarah at his side, and his last words were: "I Next was Zachary Taylor, who was the less than a year and a half after swearing in. He gastrointestinal tract. Us Americans call it the painful for him. It's worth noting that there but analysis of his remains in 1991 some historians think it's a possibility. die. I expect the summons very soon. I have I regret nothing, but I am sorry Two former Presidents died in 1862, at the height First, the 10th President, John Tyler, in January, July. No, not July 4th. Tyler died from a he took a sip of brandy and told his doctor, "I Tyler then responded, "Perhaps it is best." Those be buried with a Confederate flag instead of an heart failure brought on by bronchial asthma. He succeed him in the office after he left it. Carter sticks around a few more years...Supposedly The next President to die was the first and his wife and friends were watching a show at Booth came up behind Lincoln, who was laughing him in the head, at point-blank range. After going morning. He was 56. I have an entire video about to watch. We don't know his last words for sure, anything about it." That was a response to Mary, Harris, one of their friends sitting next to them, Three years later, James Buchanan died gout. He was 77. Some say his last words but honestly I'm not that convinced they were. Franklin Pierce died the next year from suffering from liver cirrhosis for several years basically... alcohol killed him. I've covered and it's even the chorus of the song I made but let's add to the tragedy, shall we? He and that's why we don't know his last Millard Fillmore was next. He died from a stroke "The nourishment is palatable," referring Even though I doubt these were his last The next year, Andrew Johnson also died from U.S. Senator representing Tennessee at the time. President. Uh...yeah...few can agree so I'm not gonna speculate on this one. James Garfield was the second President to if he had competent doctors, perhaps he would have a mentally ill fellow named Charles Guiteau once in the back and once in the arm. "My God, but those would not be his last words. Most Garfield was slowly starting to recover before get his bullet out with unsterilized fingers Two months after getting shot, Garfield died from General David Swaim. Clutching the tremendous can't you stop this? Oh, oh, Swaim!" It must Ulysses Grant also had a slow, painful after suffering from it for at least a year. The next year, Chester Arthur died from a stroke The next President to die was Rutherford he died from heart disease at the age I'm going where Lucy is." By the way, Lucy Well, frankly, I think she was in Oh, heaven. Hayes thought she went to Benjamin Harrison was next. He got influenza, which then turned into pneumonia. He died make sense to me. They were "Are the doctors The next President to die was the third one to be McKinley. After serving as President for four shot him twice in the stomach. Czolgosz and government bad and stuff. McKinley appeared to but then took a turn for the worse. He ended up caused by a lack of blood supply. Do me a favor didn't you? Anyway, his last words were "We are not ours." He was responding to his wife Seven years later, Grover Cleveland, the 22nd to pass away. He suffered from a heart He had had ongoing health problems, suffering obstruction. His last words were: "I have tried Teddy Roosevelt was next. His death On the night of January 5, 1919, he had been who gave him some kind of treatment, and went to bed. However, he never woke up. He died "Please put out that light, James," which he before he drifted off. The Vice President "Death had to take Roosevelt sleeping, for if he It's assumed he died from a coronary occlusion Warren Harding was the sixth President to die causes. When he was traveling along the West and chest pains. After some rest he began to but down there he began to feel like crap again August 2, 1923, his wife Florence was from The Saturday Evening Post. After she paused, Those were his last words, as he had a He died at the age of 57, just less than Woodrow Wilson died just a few although he had already suffered from he was President that nearly killed him then. and nearly blind because of it. Supposedly, broken...I am ready." He was 67. Today he's the Next to die was William Taft. Taft is known as the final years he made a significant effort to get in foods to lose around 100 pounds. He also worked Justice of the Supreme Court. However, his health of inflammation of the liver and heart disease Calvin Coolidge died of a heart attack and unexpected. Apparently his Robert." Robert was a carpenter Franklin Roosevelt was the seventh but that was after he had been re-elected a supposedly from a stroke, he had been in "supposedly" since some historians a type of skin cancer. His last words Next to die was John F. Kennedy, the most assassinated. His death is arguably the and right now you can search online and see and it was dramatic...in front of what seemed Dealey (dee lee) Plaza in Dallas, Texas on into all the theories about who REALLY killed JFK, historians, undoubtedly the main dude responsible just three days later. Public opinion polls have believe the official version tells the whole death. His last words were "No, you certainly the wife of then Texas governor John "You certainly can't say that the people Mr. President." At just 46, John F. Kennedy was Herbert Hoover died the next year. He had gone of years of his life, but the official cause don't know his last words, but he did live to the The grim reaper's next visit was to Dwight D. at the age of 78. He had had heart problems for a while he was President. His last words were Harry Truman was the next to die. His organs had after suffering from severe pneumonia. Lyndon Johnson died less than a month after until ten years after Truman left office. LBJ, died from a heart attack at the "Send Mike immediately." Mike was his to his Texas ranch. By the time Mike The next President wouldn't die until more than who died from a stroke at the age of 81. His Ronald Reagan was the next President to die, with Alzheimer's disease, which he was first disease is, remember Reagan nearly became the but survived a gunshot wound back in 1981. We Two years later, Gerald Ford died officialy of arterioscelerotic cerebrovascular disease he had heart issues, ok? He was also 93, And finally, the most recent President to die was on November 30, 2018. He was 94, at the but that distinction is now held by who himself was President, reported that In conclusion, you may have noticed rather long lives. Even though it's supposedly Presidents have historically lived longer than Americans is currently 78.9, but in 1860, it dying back then. The average lifespan for all but remember that goes back to 1797. 24 of lived longer than the average life expectancy who have died over the past 50 years, the average Plus, look at the six Presidents man! Especially the aforementioned Jimmy And then there's the current President, Joe already the oldest President in American history. expressed interest in running for re-election, Anyway, that's how every President through this whole video. Remember, most so watch that blood pressure! Oh, and don't As you can tell by which this video, (pointing) these are the ones I chose. What kind of Presidents video should it's time to recognize my patreon supporters to every patreon supporter who donates at alphabetically starting with my biggest donors alicia solberg andrew b anthony beckett dr paul j lilly elijah ellis josie ramsey kyle osborne's gaming pat ia pika sean connet thomas adam christians aesthetic degen andrew snyder gail gerard grant hughes ian driscoll elon lozada john johnson kit walker lee 48 naderade oppenheim victor martinez waterfort and zachary you're still watching whoa