Let's take a look at the ice crystals this morning. A mountain has formed from the ice. The distant snow-capped mountains correspond perfectly. We stopped at this spot yesterday. There is a village next to it. Zaduo County is just behind that mountain. There are mountains all around. We drove on winding mountain roads all afternoon yesterday. We arrived at 8 o'clock. I was really dizzy. That's Kunsha Township. And the airport of Ali is also over there. Let me show you all something. How we solve our daily grooming needs in the outdoors. It's all thanks to this water bag. We use this water bag for washing our faces and brushing our teeth. We rely on this water bag for all our grooming needs. Today we'll first go to Shiquanhe Town, the center of Ali, to see if they have any electric heated water bags for sale. Relying just on electric blankets is no longer adequate in this temperature. Shiquanhe is very close to Xinjiang. Today we'll go to the shopping mall in Shiquanhe. Then continue heading towards Xinjiang. There are two scenic spots: one is the Ritu Rock Paintings, and continuing forward, there's the Banggang Lake. This should be the last scenic spot before we enter Xinjiang. This is basically the plan for today. We're ready to depart now. Let me scrape off this ice. I can see Shiquanhe Town now. I can already see it in the distance. Let's check the fuel price here. It's almost 10 yuan. But fortunately, the roads in Tibet are generally very good, so the fuel consumption has gone down. The average fuel consumption is around 6 liters. Calculating it this way, the expenses are actually about the same as in Yunnan. The fuel price is a bit higher here, but the average fuel consumption is lower. So it balances out overall. We've arrived near the Shiquanhe shopping mall. This navigation ends here. I found this shopping mall, let's go take a look inside. I came out in 5 seconds. I asked the owner, and they only have water-filled hot water bags, There is a business plaza here. It's quite big. Let's go in and have a look. We didn't find the second mall either. We went and found another one. This electric heating pad in the supermarket costs more than 80 yuan. Even the small one. We'll buy this one for now. We also bought a lip balm. It cost 20 yuan. My lips are really dry. They're cracked. There's a department store here. They have heating pads. I'll check them out, they're 50 yuan. The one we saw at the grocery store was also 50 yuan. But the generic brand may have safety issues. After thinking about it, I've decided not to buy it. We just searched on Meituan, and found a store selling these electric warmers. Let's go check it out. The one on Meituan was 58 or 53 yuan. The store is selling it for 45 yuan. However, this hand warmer is also a low-quality one. It's not heated by electric coils, but by directly heating the liquid inside. The truly safe ones have electric coil heating and safety features. They also have anti-explosion clips for charging. Strictly speaking, that's an outdated technology. But we can make do with it. It's still quite pretty and cute though. It even has a handle. The boss said the ones with handles cost 3 yuan more wholesale. Without the anti-explosion clips, you just plug it in and use it. I've decided that we'll get a Tibetan pancake here. Haven't had that in a long time. We bought an egg-filled pancake. It was 15 yuan. So you can see the prices here are fairly high. We passed by a Zhengxin Chicken place. Haven't had that in a long time. Let's get one to eat. You can only find places like this in the relatively larger areas of Tibet. Departing from Bangguo La Pass This is the last scenic spot in Tibet Let's check in on the rock paintings here As the name suggests, they are paintings carved on rocks The painting skill is a bit like the level of a kindergarten Look at the painting up there It has already started to erode It's disappearing, we can see it less and less This kind of scenic spot Now we've arrived at Bangong Lake to check in Bangong This is the last scenic spot in our Tibet trip The weather is not very good Let's check in on the long-necked swan lake Bangong Co In Tibetan, it means &quot;long-necked swan&quot; Because this lake is a rift lake The whole lake is around 150 kilometers long Only a part of it is within our country The other part is in the Kashmir region controlled by India And this lake is also a patriotic lake Why is that? Because the part of the lake in our country has freshwater And there are many fish in it The water is very clear But when the lake reaches the Kashmir side it becomes a salt lake without a blade of grass Leaning more towards our country This lake is a bit patriotic The sun is not very good today Normally this lake is very clear You can see the fish under the water And people who have been here before said there are a lot of fish here It feels like you can just grab a fish with your hand The distance is hazy To be honest this feeling of feeding is not much different from feeding chickens Dare you eat, come on Two sausages can make these seagulls come rushing forward, right?