Five in the morning, parking lot Last moments with the family, These kids they are just however, they are preparing In these trash bags are All agree Some are voluntary The academy is free. It is funded by Joshua Miguel is thirteen years old. Like everyone here, but he doesn't know Good bye Baby, His mother enrolled him because and also From now on they are all At the Academy, the rules are simple: No one should And they apply The method is simple: To bring order, put everything First difficult moment he got the wrong building. Some, like Christopher, and they are Joshua struggles to breathe. He is exhausted. He's two fingers away Joshua and the others but as recruits. Obligatory visit to the hairdressing salon In the shack, Hard You have to break them Most don't think You have to get that idea out of their heads. It's the only way You see, The boys' dormitory. This is where they will spend the five Instructors are day Formal prohibition to look at each other or to speak Joshua finds out the hard way. The calvary Sir, yes sir. His grimaces earn him A special outfit and Joshua is doing better, It was my mother who wanted It's surely good for me, What's good for you? To go Things like that. After the admission of the boys, The instructors By experiment, Jovita Santoyo, fourteen years old. She chose first in class, her life changed when her father was Since then, Jovita has been letting go All personal matters three o'clock in the morning, the academy van That's breakfast. It's coming We have an agreement. These are the inmates we take them, we bring them back, Some find it disgusting But with days of 16 to 18 hours, [Foreign language 00:01:55-00:01:57] three-thirty, Joshua cried all night. He is dropped, and cannot find again For us, the youngest because they focus less But it's a challenge They get used It's very From now on, sixty seconds Fifteen, Joshua still found Price: a series of pumps At the Academy, and the slightest favor I have to learn it all by heart for five minutes. So now I apply Christopher's fate worsens. It is assigned to three weeks Another penalty: the brown outfit, As long as he wears he is private no sports, We really want to better obey orders Even the meals No more of Knives are prohibited and feet flat. And better All trips Prohibition Girls and boys they don't even have And the atmosphere during the six hours In each class, an instructor He is the one who solves the problems Why did I choose to come here? Because I want to concentrate improve and that my grades And improve my behavior because I changed so here i am Jovita's mother did not want His eldest son He gave up after a month. The day of departure, I followed her in the car hoping she changes her mind &quot; Mom, I was hoping for her, Jovita waits for every phone call Hello, hello sweetie, Do you think you will succeed? In his last letter, I'm crying because I can't But do not worry, I will not become I know she will be successful. She says she and she's all going Joshua's mother is expecting but She has no regrets, On the contrary, she is convinced I said to myself : &quot;You have two choices, And that's when Reading the draconian regulations far from shocking her, It's going to be hard at the Academy, but it will prepare him It's hard to pass to go to school the other children I prefer my son push it to its limits he is strong. They are preparing my son for the world Four months later, the treatment practiced Those who held the shock Discipline goes without saying. It is especially at the school level All have I only have "A", only "A". I am really happy. We have more time After school, from 3:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. No phone calls, Just work and homework. And they do Jovita and the others, drink The military instructor but They come back from afar. I think they learned to respect each other They look proud of what they all do, Proud of their appearance. They are proud of their work, Same result for boys. Joshua, too, I'm a little under pressure. Of course, I miss my mother. Every night I cry. And if I hold on A psychologist He watches for signs indicating It also ensures that the relationship Families are asked This semester, for lack Those who were expelled That is why Only 11 recruits a good average The difficulty is to pass and controlled that the Academy to an environment where the rules It's the heart How to enforce when there is no The best way for us is to bring once the students When trouble comes, there are young people The other solution is to make sure For Joshua, the physical efforts Today, This is the last practice An obstacle course I'm a bit tired, Do you find it difficult? Yes, I won't lie to you, However, The challenge This test under medical supervision training We monitor the state of health before and during the challenge, to be sure and they don't have I'm afraid they'll call me. I'm really scared. What are you afraid of? Many things. I heard a lot of rumors and what we are made to do In the United States, the Eagle Academy to impose such a test It's 4 p.m. The challenge begins At nightfall, and there is still The slightest weakness Those who think they have done The soldiers have in reserve Twenty and one hour, the only A sandwich eaten standing up with a bonus It's about We want children to exceed their Most of these kids have What I do now I walk around with coffee and as soon as they touch it, The temptation is great but for now, I'm super dirty and freezing. You think that Sure, Not even for a burger. I am motivated ! I'm cold, but I'm super motivated Do you think you'll get there? Yes, and we will all succeed, What's the hardest? Now ? Cold ! And precisely, the cold begins It is cold ! Go on ! There are those that And those who There is also a broken little finger. Dangerous ? No, it's not dangerous. They have to be moved. As long as we maintain they are not in danger. If we see that it becomes dangerous, if it gets cold, Joshua, him, They ordered me to sit down, They are stiff! Are you that cold? You're sad My legs... Do they hurt you? The ultimate ordeal for the survivors: The immersion time is left Thirty seven boys failed to Their unwavering solidarity I feel so good! I did not think You can't imagine You have nothing No, it's the hardest thing The internship is coming to an end. Jovita got permission, she can The time is rather positive She's more mature than before in her own way She wants to keep having We made a deal. If she continues to get good grades, I give him money. She will have the right and she can even It's good I will have good results It's not just about money, 'Cause I won't always be there The session is over. A picnic This is the first time they Jovita, thanks has been accepted Joshua's mother finds He is more disciplined. He enjoys school. I think that it's discipline And I think he sees the instructors And that's great. But for her it's not enough If they don't take it back from me, I will enforce military regulations I will try to get up in the morning and apply at home And you know what ? I represent him again in six months I will be back And again, and again. Aida will do everything and pass To his delight, But this second Joshua will crack