Where is he visiting? It's not that early, but it's not even 10 am now. People already lined up to enjoy London Bagel. Oh! People can enjoy indoor. There are 119 teams waiting in front of us... Staff: If you want to eat it indoor, you need to wait for about 4 hours, if it's for to-go, you need to wait about 2:30 or 3 hours. OMG... Three hours... You might knew through thumbnail, I will have three meals in Anguk. Brussel Fries opened up Anguk branch. There are three hot places in Korea: Seongsu, Yeonnamdong. and Anguk. We got to open up one in Anguk. I'm here to help them. Will make some fries for my subscribers. At the same time, I would like to film my day here. Let me show you how to plan your dates in Anguk. I came to Shinrajaemeon. I'm the first customer here. They open at 10:30 am. I asked for the owner's permission and got this place to film videos. It's 10:28 am. I still have 100 customers waiting in front of me. I'm not sure if I could eat it today. Really have no idea. Anyway, I've been to this place together with Buseong and frieds. This brand is popular in Gyeongju. Since I'm from Gyeongsangdo, I feel very proud when Gyeongsangdo brands enters Seoul. I heard they are the one who gave this menu a name called &quot;Kalsquid&quot;. Not sure who made this menu first, but they are the one who came up with this menu name. This is very good. Squid bibim kalguksu, Clam kalguksu, Anguk seafood pajeon, potato jeon, bibimbap. Done. I said that Anguk is a hot place at the beginning. I understand that different people have different standard of hot place. I have my own understandings of hot places as well. Gangnam, Apgujeong, Shinsa, Kunguk, Hongdae are hot places for passionate young people. Anguk, Seongsu, Yeonnamdong are places for couples and families. I'll say Anguk belongs to the second standard. Let's mix it. It looks so good. Looks very yummy already. Let's slurp it. Do you want some? Yes. After this bite. Should have ordered three servings. So good. Tastes spicy and it appetites my tongue. I was about to have potato jeon, but let me show you this first. There's no empty spaces. Look at this. Seafood pajeon. Potato jeon first~ Potato jeon. Like pizza. I think this tastes more delicious than pajeon. It's really good. It's very good to have it together with noodles. Kalsquid together with potato jeon. Here comes another one. The smell of watery parsley is very nice. I've had some spicy and greasy foods. This broth... The broth tastes very refreshing and nice because of cheongyang chili. Another big reveal. Seafood pajeon. I realized that I like kalguksu not long ago. I didn't like it before. I think I haven't showed you this legit tension for a long time. I might bring my Brussel Fries staffs here for dinner. I've posted this place on Instagram for a few times and they were curious about this place as well. I strongly recommen this place. I need to eat more potatoes later... It's so good that I can't stop. Oh! I got some tea to spill. I asked Buseong his standard of hot place on our way here. B: NOOOOOOOOO~ He said &quot;well.... I haven't been on a date for decades, so...&quot; Excuse me..? So in Buseong's opinion, hot place is the place that has many pretty girls. So I told him it was nice working with you. Seems like Buseong is feeling lonely these days. The very last one is coming. I actually came here for this. Kalsquid bibimbap. You only need to pay extra 3000 won on top of kalsquid menu. Let me make this clear. This is not an option but a must. I tried this bibimbap about two times when I was in Gyeongju. It was very good. I think it became more delicious. Let's try it. This is amazing. Should do this. They really go well together. Seafood pajeon tastes good on its own. And potato jeon goes well with kalsquid. It's full house now. This place receives about 500 teams a day. 800 teams in weekend. I've been here before. Guess what kind of skill I am using here. Can't imagine? You know Chef Seongjae Ahn puts crumbles right before he finishes rameon. I'm putting putting pajeon crumbles on top of it. So I won't mix it. Will have it like this. There's a word that means &quot;no more words needed&quot; in Gyeongsangdo. Kalggioupda. It's really flawless. B: That's why it's Kalsquid. Oh yeah~ Kalggioupda. I even forgot that I have to London Bagel later. I will do my best to enjoy rest of two meals. See you at the next place. OMG, guys... I've waited two and half hours for this... I will never do this if it's not filming. I would rather not eat it. But today, I'm waiting for it because I wanted to make a nice video just like how passionate I was when I just started this channel. See you in the place. The sound of music was very loud and there were too many people inside. So I found this alley that is quiet and could film the video. Truffle butter bagel. Seems very nice. Smells very flavorful. (Finding other bagels) Fig bagel. London Bagel is popular with varieties of cream cheese. But I chose some sweet taste bagels because I just had a meal. Only truffle butter bagel is salty taste. Wasn't really my type... S: I enjoyed this a lot in Jeju. B: You were amazed by these bagels in Jeju. I don't think it's because I had meal earlier. Blueberry bagel. Cinnamon pecan bagel. Tastes couldn't blend well together. I was into London Bagel for a while. It doesn't have many branches in Korea. I started to find nice bagel places to try to find bagels that taste similar to London Bagels. I actually found some nice places. And now, I think those places make better bagels than here. Maybe I expected too much... I'll bring these home and fulfill other's stomach with delicious foods. (My legs...) Let's go. It's 12:50 pm. I will start working starting from 1 pm. Before that! I'll have some fries first~ I think it's my first time showing audiences how to order through the KIOSK machine. B: Oh~ I always told people how to do it by telling them. Jumbo fries is our new menu, I'll have this. Done ordering. I'll make it my own. Ta-da~ Doesn't it seem yummy? B: Haven't seen you eating it for a long time. Jumbo fries. It looks like wedge fries but it's not and it's quite chubby. I like guacamole and bacon chips for toppings. I sometimes have nachos as well. But I like these two toppings the most. Anyway. You will be able to find delicious fries at our Brussel Fries in Korea. If you happen to visit Anguk, would be nice of you to stop by our Brussel Fries~ Thank you for watching today. I'm on clock now. I really enjoyed the meal. If you like this video, please press like and leave some comments for me. What should I eat next?