Almost six months have passed since the that gave birth to the Pacific War. In this half that was better prepared for war and the one that rapidly steamrolled across the Pacific, capturing the Dutch East Indies and the island of New countries like Australia and India; and even over a possible invasion. The Empire of the Rising downhill from this point forward. The surprising battle at the Coral Sea, had shown the weaknesses to seek a decisive battle with his main enemy. Yet a trap that would forever change the course of Midway, the event that finally put a stop There's one other decisive world war the famous D-Day invasion, as our sponsor of Days: American Stories. It's a collection when allied invaders faced extreme conditions and progress of Nazi Germany in western europe. from the tense build up in England And there's more content like that to see; history content available anywhere, covering wars, biographies, and the earth itself. extensive collections of science, true They add 15 or more hours of 4K, high subscribers at no extra cost. It is all viewable mobile devices, and more. Get access to 3500 hours and get a month for free by subscribing to As we've covered previously, the origins of the Doolittle Raid, which saw Admiral Yamamoto Central Pacific, with the ultimate goal of American Pacific Fleet. Yet for this, he had fleet carriers for the planned invasion of Port the Japanese ambitions were checked by under Admiral Fletcher, which managed to leave be employed in the invasion of Midway. The cost, they lost the carrier Lexington while the Yorktown For a more in depth coverage of these events and latest episodes ! On their estimates, the Japanese so Yamamoto thought that his four remaining enough to take Midway. But on the other side, the Japanese plans of invasion . Admirals King were going to conduct their offensive, even to be employed by the enemy. Immediately, the for the incoming battle while also preparing an Although King was adamant to employ the of the war, Nimitz knew that the way to conduct true striking power now laying with his aircraft towards the West Coast out of harm's way, while he as possible. The other two carriers of Task Force force for the battle, along with the impressive of Midway, which could provide him the ability Thus, Nimitz' carriers would be awaiting a point 325 miles northeast of Midway, from where destroy half of the Japanese carrier force. This as he had envisioned to catch the Americans with First, he had planned to use Admiral Nagumo's with a surprise assault reminiscent of that of base on Kure Island while the invasion A total of 5000 SNLF marines would land was to seize the Eastern Island and a force Yamamoto expected that the Americans would leaving the Japanese ample time to quickly carefully lay up a trap of their own that was to For this trap, the Japanese admiral including a secondary attack against the Aleutians that the odds were in their favor. Once the the dispersed Japanese vessels would converge For Yamamoto, the Japanese battleships tasked with engaging the enemy battleships A large number of submarines from the 6th Fleet American advance from Pearl Harbor to Midway, and cause them great attrition. Yamamoto has been plan, as he was completely wrong to expect full For instance, Yamamoto had devoted a considerable invasion of the Aleutians, which included a Kiska, Adak and Attu. These were clearly secondary seize them , leaving the invaders too far away to Furthermore, on May 27, the operation was Butai departed Hashirajima Anchorage one day later the entire initial strike at Midway, Yamamoto his plan. Unfortunately for him, Task Force 16 the following day, with Yorktown doing the same her crews continued repairing her as she sortied. the combined American forces, the senior of psoriasis, so the experienced Fletcher was Rear-Admiral Raymond Spruance was put in charge by Halsey himself. Upon assuming command, Fletcher and he also moved his carriers to a new In contrast, Yamamoto's efforts to were also very lackluster, failing to execute a American presence at the French Frigate Shoals late at their scheduled scouting cordon, through On the morning of June 3, due to Nagumo's late arrive in the vicinity of Midway, rapidly getting attacks that failed to do heavy damage on them. finally arrived in the area from the northwest Lieutenant-Commander Tomonaga Joichi, to strike Although Yamamoto had hoped to achieve full of the Midway Garrison , had earlier sent an This resulted in the interception of the Japanese 18 F-2A Buffalos piloted by brave US Marines. Yet for the defenders, losing 15 planes in the large superiority of the battle-hardened Japanese targets on Eastern and Sand Islands, heavily much damage in return from anti-aircraft fire. By neutralize most of Midway's defenses and had also request a second wave to complete the job. Losses leaving it with only 8 torpedo bombers While the Japanese attack was happening, During the early morning, the PBYs flying from and alert Fletcher of their presence in the area. could attack the other carrier force first Whereas the Americans had wisely dedicated Nagumo only devoted a total of seven After receiving the reports of the PBYs, Fletcher and strike at the enemy. The reason Yorktown's was still unsure about the location of the Spruance began the launch of his 116 aircraft . Enterprise's launch didn't go exactly as planned, lift off, thus causing there to be two separate 6 TBF Avengers and 4 B-26 Marauders arrived from the carrier Akagi. The Japanese, however, had aircraft were easy prey for the invaders. Lofton Henderson arrived and attacked the carrier Half of the 16 dive bombers were shot down in the third wave , consisting of 14 B-17s, and a then appeared, but yet again failed to Around this time, Nagumo had also decided using the aircraft that had been reserved to he hadn't received any reports so far, he assumed Yet just as the strike group was being prepared, force of at least 10 enemy ships in a struck of Nagumo suspended the second wave's strike, but so called-Nagumo's dilemma left him two options take initiative, conducting a piecemeal attack requiring to ditch or wait for returning aircraft IJN doctrine did not endorse &quot;Piecemeal attacks&quot;. so early on, and now most of his aircraft Although Rear-Admiral Yamaguchi Tamon of the an immediate strike, Nagumo decided to wait and did not to take any action, instead hoping and thus giving the initiative to Fletcher had also been alerted that his forces launch part of his aircraft in piecemeal attacks Kido Butai, which had departed almost two hours At 09:15, just as almost all the first wave Devastators started to appear on the horizon . fell upon the carrier Soryu, immediately getting In a matter of 20 minutes, all 15 Devastators any of the carriers but preventing the Japanese the attack developed, Nagumo's carriers began to out of fuel to defend them, but now 14 Devastators They were yet again prevented from striking five of them got to survive the engagements. had passed well north of the 1st Kido Butai, They would never locate the enemy and would with a few fighters getting ditched on the way due led by Lieutenant-Commander Clarence McClusky, an indirect route in spite of the bad so was Yorktown's air group, which had Facing 41 Zeros on patrol, Yorktown's torpedo approach towards the Japanese carriers at 10:10. the Wildcats, resulting in a series of dogfights Lieutenant-Commander Lance Massey the opportunity At the same time, with most of the Zeros torpedo bombers, McClusky's and Yorktown's bombers bombs over the carriers Soryu and Kaga. By 10:25, were scored on Soryu, causing extensive damage on Seeing that Akagi might survive the attack bombers from Yorktown aborted their dives with full surprise. Best himself managed to score penetrating the upper hangar and causing a Between 10:35 and 10:45, the last of the getting to launch torpedoes against Hiryu but the attack, the Americans had lost a total of 67 mortal damage over three carriers. Soryu and lives , but Akagi took the longest to die. With a the carrier had to be abandoned eventually, then Yamamoto himself. Admiral Yamaguchi, in command received orders to launch a counter-strike Mustering 36 aircraft under Lieutenant Kobayashi patrol, the strike group was launched at 10:50. to advance eastwards to support Nagumo, who upon north to intercept the American vessels with Task Force 17 and began his attack on Yorktown. 5 Wildcats emerged to intercept them, the Japanese bombers managed to survive the interception, then resulting strike, the experienced Japanese pilots managed to strike three hits and two near-misses, the most accurate attacks of the war. Although Yorktown had come to a stop and looked like it move to the cruiser Astoria while Spruance sent Upon getting notified of the successful strike commit his few remaining aircraft, the ones with many casualties, for a second assault the makeshift force of 16 aircraft was launched At this point, Yorktown's fires had been put Tomonaga got sight of Task Force 17 at 14:30, he Kobayashi had attacked hours ago. The Japanese coming to reinforce them from Task Force 16. effectively, giving Tomonaga's five torpedo Flying a damaged plane , Tomonaga himself was defenders but managing to maintain control of his Unfortunately, his torpedoes missed, as did his five torpedo planes would go unrewarded. But then invaders, surviving several attacks by Wildcats Two of these torpedoes hit the port side of the devastating effect. The five torpedo planes would with four of their escorts, while the Americans, the listing carrier . While this attack was forces coming towards Task Force 16. At 15:30, led by Lieutenant Wilmer Gallaher, to While preparing a third strike for the afternoon, of American aircraft at 17:00. With the 13 Zeros to dive against Hiryu just five minutes later. were achieved against the carrier, penetrating In the old tradition, Yamaguchi decided while the rest of the crew was evacuated. He was making it a huge loss. 31 dive bombers from opportunity but failing to hit any. With the last to salvage the situation and achieve a decisive failure, ordered the 2nd Kido Butai to come south But the 2nd Kido Butai couldn't start to move in a vulnerable position and forcing Yamamoto during the early hours of June 5. Furthermore, Spruance had expertly avoided getting lured into was trying to do off Wake Island. By midday, retreating Japanese forces, but could only find aircraft and expertly avoided getting damaged. were left very exposed and suffered an accident After surviving an attack by Midway's aircraft strike by Spruance's forces. The damaged Mogami hits and soon sank into the ocean. After suffering to escape and rendezvous with Kondo the next conducted on Yorktown, and it appeared like Yet the sudden appearance of submarine I-168 torpedoes and also ripping apart the destroyer June 6, the carrier finally sank into its final success for the Americans, only suffering the recently described. In turn, the Japanese had lost as well as some 248 aircraft. Nimitz' gamble had the Japanese to recover from these losses. With lose the initiative in the war, and now it was Next week, however, we'll cover the only as they embarked on the invasion of the Aleutian any episodes, make sure you are subscribed and consider liking, commenting, and sharing - it without our kind patrons and youtube channel in the description to know our schedule, get and much more. This is the Kings and Generals