- We're kicking off a of Linus Tech Tips. Today we have the one and only Seth Curry, have you ever done a - I have not, man, I'm excited about it. I'm excited about kind of Something I know nothing about. - And if it goes well, maybe with someone really - Yeah. (energetic music) - Tell me something. We are gonna build a top of why do you even need something that crazy? - 'Cause I'm a big time gamer I know last year during the I got into PC gaming. I just wanna learn more about - Have you ever even installed or is this it? - I haven't. This is, like I said, I'm a rookie. Hopefully, I learn a lot Maybe I can do it on my own. - So what have you done to - I gotta be honest, Like I said, I know I got an expert here that's going to walk me I'm gonna have some but I'm as rookie in as they come. - So many people wanna get into PC gaming, but they have no idea where to start and they feel like they're and someone's gonna hate But that's your job today, isn't it? - Yeah, that's one of that's why I'm doing it. I wanna get to know - So, you gotta find your motherboard. - The box here that so I'm assuming it's that one. Real quick, - Yes. - Real quick, what tools do I need before we get started? Like the basic screwdriver? - I love this. He's asking all the right Pretty much all you're If you wanna get into cable you might need some side cutters to, you know, clip off your zip ties. An anti-static wrist or ankle - So I gotta be careful messing around, Do I need to take my watch off or what? You kind of scared me a little. - No, you're good with your watch. Your power supply is over on your left. - Okay. - And it's the one that in very shiny holofoil, there you go. - Got it right here. - [Host] Fantastic. So start by opening that sucker up. - Oh, the ASUS gifts and the stickers and all that come included, yeah? This is not the right one? - [Technician] The big box, on the side. - Oh, they took it out. - Oh, wait, what? They (host laughs) - Yeah, it's just cool. I was a little confused when Okay. Here we go. - [Host] They robbed you - I know. - [Host] All right. I want you to find the power pin plug. Yep, that's the one. Yep. So we're just going to plug as though we were going - Okay. - But we're not going Hopefully there's a power I would assume. - Yeah, I hope so. There's one down here, but I That's the, hmm. - They got this. That's why don't I walk you through to plug into the other side. - [Seth} Okay. - You've got what's called and it's good for cooling. It's good for cable management a really clean, nice looking build. - Yeah, that is key. Can I just say I'm having - It's early and we're - You're doing awesome. Okay, you want to find the thickest one. - Looks like this one here. - [Host] That's your 24 pin connectors. So go ahead and untie that, guy. - Got it. - Every computer build needs So the one that splits apart, that one goes into the power supply. PC manufacturers are smart like that. They mostly make it so you - Okay. - And they should have And then in the back of there'll be like a little notch. Right there. Yep. Perfect. - Yep. Okay we're in. - It's so cool for other people, I think, to see someone who's so well coordinated having exactly the same 'cause the thing just - So I'm going to catch my rhythm and we're going to keep it going - I've got all the exact same - Okay. - so that I can really guide you here. Speaking of coaching, having your father-in-law as a coach? (Seth laughs) - I thought it would be, but it's usually harder on my After a bad loss, if the next it can get a little awkward - So you're going to that are going to say PCIE on them. - I got it. - [Host] So the other end where it says - PSU? - That one's going to go - Next to the one I plugged in? - Ah, yes. Yep, you can the state of California systems with graphics cards - Gee. Okay, and this power supply So now I go up top? - You bet. You've got that are labeled CPU/VGA/PCIE. I think they could label these better. - I agree. - You have built yourself a beautiful pitch-black octopus (Seth laughs) - Yeah. - I love it. One way to make sure that is to ground yourself. Stay grounded. - Mm, hmm. I got good (host laughs) - I wasn't worried about you slipping. (host laughs) - You saying for the case? - For static electricity. - Oh, oh. - So whenever you move around, you just want to touch that power supply anywhere on the metal part of it. And that's going to ground you. We're going to go ahead motherboard, which was over on your right. Perfect. Oh man, dude's a natural. So you're going to go ahead box and that's it. Cardboard - Okay. - So that's a safe place Here's one of the biggest You got to install the CPU. So you play a fair bit of war zone, is my understanding, is that right? - I do. That's the normal - This thing is going to So you're going to be - Okay. Oh, this little guy right here. - That's the one. There's That's got a little golden triangle on it. I want you to try and find that for me. - Golden triangle. I see - You're going to look at your motherboard and on that little black piece on the top, so on there, there's going of a black triangle. - Yes. - Okay, that's the orientation - [Seth] Okay. - So now we've got to My mouth is like cotton. I believe in you though. - We gonna get it done, trust me. - So there's a little metal arm. You want to pull that out to the side, to the side towards the Now you see those little pins in there? - I do. - So if one of those pins gets bent, that's it, dead computer. - [Seth] Okay. - So you want to hold the CPU by the edges and try to lower it kind with those two triangles aligned. He even gave it the little That's amazing. (Seth laughs) - I'm gonna go ahead and - I love it. - Yep, there you go. Just So, pull it out and then And that black piece - [Seth] Okay. - That's outta here. - Okay. I thought I broke it for a second. - Okay, that was the hardest part. - Oh, it's going to be easy peasy then. - Next thing we're going We've got some Corsair Got all the shiny lights on it. - This looks pretty cool right here. - 64 gigs. That's kind of overkill, but - It's a little much. - [Host] See those four slots that are kind of right - Here? Got it. - [Host] There's some little tabs there. Yep. You want to pull those back. - Yeah. - [Host] Perfect. - Which way should it? okay. - Yep. You were right the You're going to have to push quite firmly. And the tab will snap itself into place. - Yep. Got the first one in. - Nice. - It's like sports, you catch a rhythm, you keep moving pretty smoothly. - I really follow basketball very closely. And so one of my guys had to but I heard you actually had playoffs this year. - Yeah I had a career year. I I wish we would have won. - You guys gave him a good fight though, I mean, seven games. That's not exactly lying down and just - Yeah, it was a fun series for sure. But, well actually, what - Do you promise not to laugh? - Let me hear it. - I'm following Olympic I'm a big badminton fan. - Badminton? Wow. I've I'm not going to lie, so we're - Yeah. Those are both but man water polo, you You ever try and play water polo? - I've never played it before. - It is unreal. You know, waist high out of the water so you can make a shot like that. Those guys are going. - Yeah that upper body strength is crazy. - So you've got CPU and memory installed. Let's find your SSD. So is what you're looking for. This has got two terabytes of storage. You can throw a ton of games on here. And if you ever need more, I think this motherboard's got M.2 slots on it. Four. Haha, I lied. So you're going to need your screwdriver. You'll need a #1 Phillips head in it. - All right, I got the one. - [Host] So do you see - Yes, hero, got it right here. - You're going to take off the two screws that are in that hero piece. This is what it's going to - [Seth] Okay. - [Host] There you go. I heard that click. That's a good click. - Yep. This is a little fella. - Haha, yet another evolutionary (Seth laughs) - We can handle computer screws. - Big hands are not an advantage here. - Now, would you consider like around the house? - Out of 10, I'll say I'm about a three. I can get enough done my wife doesn't yell at me. - Well, that's kind of the bar, isn't it? - Yeah, exactly. - I've done builds with they over torque that thing. 'Cause these are little tiny screws. So you could strip the threads off them. - It's a subtle thing about there, but not overdoing it. And I got a good little touch. Man we're making really - Feeling good about it. I got to give you your flowers. - Thank you. Thank you. I kind of lied to you before. The CPU is not really the hardest part. It's just the riskiest part. In the very bottom corner there's nine little pins Ah, yep. - [Seth] F panel. I see it here, yep. - That is the hardest part. - Okay. I call it F panel because it makes you say, F I wish - This is another time disadvantage. (host laughs) - Yeah, a little bit. I imagine. I've never experienced it. - There's one that has nothing above it. So you ignore that one. on the team, you know? - Yeah. - He plays real good. but you don't want to have lunch with him. - I understand that. All right we're plugged in. - So, I lied to you a little bit before, because this is actually going to be, kind of the hardest part. - It sounds like practice when coach says one more thing and we're done, and one more thing and we're done, one more thing and we're done, - We're going to go find our We're going to be ready. Can you believe we've been - It's been an hour? - it's been an hour. Without even trying to I just want you to see if that the posts in the case there. - It does. - Ah, well, in the case I - Oh, another screwdriver in the case. - Perfect. Okay, so right now you've and you got your motherboard Like this, right? So you see that rectangular cutout there? - Yes. - That's going to line And you just want to through the holes in the board. So we don't want to scrape - Okay. - 'Cause if we scratch the motherboard, it can make it not worky anymore. You know what? I can We're just going to lay the case down. So let's try that again. But with gravity helping rather than, - Uh, oh. - don't worry, we got - I think I got it. - Okay. So I couldn't help noticing here. How does that work with travel? You travel a lot, right? - [Seth] I have a ASUS laptop and play with in my hotel room, so - Got it. Now tell me something, do you have that you that has decent internet? (Seth laughs) - I'll tell you a funny and the first two days Everybody was trying to get on. Everybody was setting up So I complained. And the next day they were and they got it done. - Well I wish I had that kind As a PC gamer, are you kind of an anomaly? Is everyone else X-Box. - It's primary console, so most I could probably count the that I know personally have a - Do you have any idea why that would be? - I just don't think they know about it. Honestly, I didn't know a year and a half, two years ago. - It's like we live in - Yeah. One of my friends were telling It was all coming back to me. - well, what do you like about it? Whatever even attracted you to it? - The frames, the being able to customize it to how you personally was a big difference in the way I play. And I got a lot better once I got on it. So, I couldn't turn back. - You cannot buy an endorsement like that 'cause you're just speaking the truth. - I thought PC game was playing Sims on a MacBook, or something. - It's so mind blowing to me. You can describe high frame - Mm-hmm. - but it's the feel. - [Seth] Exactly. - So your motherboard's in. We're less than an hour - I broke a little sweat That was the hardest part. - PC building sweat. That's a stress sweat - Yeah. - And stress sweat, it stinks. - It smell worse, yeah. (host laughs) (Seth laughs) - We're going to stand the case back up and grab the power supply, - All right. - Now, I got to confess, as kind of a normie, you guys kind of eat, sleep, - Yeah. You know, I just kind of thought, hey, they probably don't have - Yeah. - Were you always a gamer? - I use gaming as a relax So, especially on the road, I as far as what I'm doing in a hotel room. - Man, okay, here's advantage (host laughs) (Seth laughs) I mean you might not realize my expense here. I'm about 5' 6.5&quot;, okay? - Okay. (Seth laughs) - When you're 5' 6&quot; you - When you're 6' 2.5&quot; in the - You know what, actually, that's a good point. I never You're not that tall for an NBA player. - I'm your average person on the street, but a little guy in the NBA. 6' 2.5&quot; I need that extra half. So really we're kin right now. - I understand, trust me. (host laughs) - Do you think you're likely to put this computer on the floor or is it going to go up on your desk? - Probably on the desk. - If it's going to go up on the desk, then what I want to do is I want to put the fan side because this case has nice It's got a lot of room for ventilation. And if you think that it's then there's no danger of So you grab your octopus You're actually going to slide case. I know in hockey, in the off season, everyone's just playing golf. - [Seth] Yeah. - What does it for basketball? Is that more applicable? Or like, - Everybody got their own thing. It's less and less golfers Just 'cause the leagues getting younger. As you get older in the league and more veterans start to try to learn to play golf and do different things, but golf falling out of favor, - Man, I can't even imagine, you know, I go to like the beer league LeBron James shows up. - Yeah. For some reason that's another sport that a lot It's a little easier to learn than golf. - Or like your brother's - Yeah. - Yeah. Probably not, I trying to get in that catcher squat, that can't be a lot of fun. - Put me at third base - This part can be a little tricky, but it's not the hardest for you with the big hands, it might be - [Seth] This is tough. - Because you got to hold - Got one in. Oh, no. - If you get desperate, a nice old PC building trick is just to take a piece of tape and tape the two pieces together, so it's a little bit This part's a little tricky. Don't worry. It takes everyone some time. Okay, I'll try not to distract you. - It's not you it's me. - Known each other for a couple hours and already you're breaking up with me. - All right, got one in. Yeah, that made it a lot easier. - Hey, that's what I'm here Now this is probably also a dumb question, but all the gamers have got to know. Do you guys actually play NBA games? - A lot of guys play NBA 2K. - Do you play though? - I do, yeah. - Do you think that EA is - No, I do not. (host laughs) If you have a good month, and make you a little bit better, make you a little bit worse, but I don't think I'm - Oh, love this, he's doing Ladies and gentlemen, this rig is going to So you are doing awesome, for serious. I'm not even just like, and you have to tell him he's You pick another connector and Oh wow, this case has a ton of front USB. I forgot about that. I that top USB 3.0 that we had over here, it's got a little metal housing around it. - Yeah, I see it. - We're going to have to swap those two. (Seth sighs) 'Cause your graphics card is His attitude is so good you gotta redo it. I guess - I don't know, man. - That's a good drill. Does that ever happen where the coach tells you the wrong thing and you're the one who ends (Seth laughs) - You usually lose. - Man, this is going to be so - I'm not going to - Good. Good, good, good. - Wait did I screw something up? I have another power LED, power LED minus. Where did that go again? - Oh, Yep, the little, yep, there you go. I cannot believe how fast you those giant mitts. Power So that whole top row should be full. - [Seth] Okay. - Are you ready for the hardest part? - I'm ready. I'm ready, I got a good - We're going to do the water cooler. So that's going to be the Rog Ryujin 360. - Liquid Cooler, got it. - I'm having a lot of fun here, but it feels kind of unfair. 'Cause this is, you know, my element and you got to try and do all my stuff. You're going to have to give someday. - We'll get you on the game in Vancouver. - We haven't had real NBA - Yeah. I was young. I remember. Well, I don't really remember, but I seen the highlights. (host laughs) - Ya. All right. So, for realsies, You should have a back plate, That looks a little - A back plate, um? - You have two. That is very interesting. You notice how it has whoa, that was close. Don't worry. I got this. Okay, see how it has these four And see how they slide back - Yes. - There you go. And then you're going to holding that in place. You're going to thread - On the front side, okay. - Finger tight, finger tight, Tell me something, what's your favorite thing - The legit questions, talking to my fans. I actually It's a lot of fun and a lot of other streamers so it's been cool. Um, these are all in. - I'm going to have you - Okay. - On your water cooler, head end. - This? - So there's thermal compound on it, don't touch that, If you can avoid it. - Thermal compound? - It's that gray gunk. - Oh, okay, okay, okay. Tubes toward the back, okay. - And then we're going to Okay, fantastic. Now, we're going to start We're just going to - What is this Velcro - It's a carrying handle, yeah. - Yeah. - So you decide kind of Yeah. I like I like this. There we go. - Okay. Now pull it back out. So hubs are going to go up. Good Lord, they sent you RGB - What does that mean? - It means a lot of cabling. - Oh, Okay. - I know that my camera guys commenting, I can't believe they hit - This one is a workout. - They really pulled There's no shame in ASUS really did kind of having him try to do a triple build. No, that was the I'm not going to spring - It's hard to believe you (host laughs) - We're just going to keep rolling though. - Can you turn it around so - Voila. - Yeah, turn it around. Let me see it from the back, you know? - What kind of content you're - I'm into PCs like that. Do you have any games a guilty pleasure? Fluffy's Adventure or anything like that? - Nah, I don't. What was the one that people It was like a race? - Oh yeah, yeah, Fall Guys. - Fall Guys. Yeah, yeah. - Do you like fall guys? - That was fun for awhile. - Yeah. That was pretty fun. Did you ever actually win? - Never, never. - Me neither. Apparently Like really tough. - Really? - 'Cause people know the games cold. - [Seth] Yeah. - And if you want advanced points, then you kind of run it and then bring it around and plug it in, but that is not necessary. - Yeah. I'm just going to - Heck yeah. We're doing a ASUS actually left the stock cables in, but we're supposed to be using MAINFrame. So we have one of their express cables before Have we already plugged in the USB 2.0? - [Technician] It's in. - Okay, wonderful. Ah, now let's turn it around. We're going to focus on the back. Those power connectors let's grab those three. They're going to plug into PRO. We're going to play Right, Right, right, keep going, oh boiling hot, you're touching it. - Oh, here, here. - Hey, there we go. Nice. - Got you. - So all three of those go You ever play hot and cold as a kid? - Of course. I was pretty good. - So you want to hear - Let me hear it. - Now's time to install the GPU. So the way that we're going to to grab your GPU first, yup, there you go. ROG Strix, it's got all that RGB, all that silent fan operation. if you want to get into that stuff. - You're speaking a different language. This thing is beautiful, - Oh, yeah. - It's a big boy. - Your top slot is the one connectivity and your GPU needs that. This is pretty easy, but as mistake that you can make in this build. - I get that one. - Just kind of keep finagling it until it's in exactly the right spot. Once it's in, there's a little latch a little plastic latch. That's going to close by itself. In your hand that GPU - It's heavy. - Oh, did that slide? - Yup, it's in. - Awesome. So see how it kind of sags like that? - Yeah. - Yep, so this slidey piece right here. - Oh yeah. - You can twist it to the side and then you slide it to where you want it and it'll support the GPU from the bottom. Then you tighten it up. when you're transporting 'Cause I don't know about but up here, yep, no comment, I'm gonna let you in on a little secret. It is bad jeebies to put or finish up anything right now. (Seth laughs) If you don't power it on first, I guarantee you, it won't turn it on. Are there any like basketball - I mean, I got a full So from wake up to game So I don't really say a superstition, but I say a routine, you know? - what about like, when - I wouldn't say change So some of the bad free throw when they catch the ball, how many dribbles they take before they shoot, spinning the ball, do something different every time. You don't have like a rhythm. So the good free throw shooters, you see them take the exact they catch it to when they it's just like repetition and, - This is it then. Moment of truth. Power buttons up on the top at the front. - Oh yes. - Oh, okay. - These lights are crazy. (host laughs) - [Seth] Wow. - [Host] Okay, come on monitor. That's normal. That's normal. First time you power on it's normal for it to do - Okay. - Yes, yes, yes, yes. Okay, good. It's up, It's up, It's up. All right. Big round of applause. We got it. (host claps) (Seth claps) Oh, I'm excited. Okay. That's fantastic. - Oh, yeah. - There's a couple of things I want to see on the screen if all of your memory is detected. - Yeah, 65536 megabytes. - You did it. That's it. First try. - Thank you, sir. This is a lot of fun, man. Worked out some muscles trying to fit in some tight spaces, but it was all worth it. I mean, I got a different - I guess that's it from our side. This thing looks absolutely awesome. Even though it's all like it already looks fricking sick. - I was a little stressed but she made it easy on me. - It's all about making people these questions and having Thanks again to ASUS ROG As part of their build together, give together campaign ASUS to win one of two awesome gaming computers with all of the proceeds, going to BC Children's hospital and they're giving to other gaming PCs to the Philadelphia So check out the link to learn more. All right. Thanks again so much. And you have a great rest - Yeah I will. All right. - All right, bye man. He did it. First try.