I know these antique-style all-in-one a record player on top are regarded as being but I got this one for $17.99 have reason to believe it bucks the trend first of all it was made by TEAC well-respected manufacturer of audio components unlike the brands which went defunct decades ago and then were resurrected in name and it's quite a bit larger and heavier it's about as big as a full-size and on the back the speakers are actually and unusually for one of these all-in-one systems one of those car radio-style slot-loading cassette I love this sticker they put &quot;TEAC nostalgia stereophonic genuine music music at home&quot; -- using the British spelling of designed for the American market. &quot;tabletop but beneath that lid is just a typical mechanism that I did a video about a while ago the needle is missing but that's just as well on any used turntable you buy because you as well as the cassette recorder and record player and unfortunately it it also doesn't have a line output but it's the TEAC model number GF-330 and it was manufactured in November 2003 in China TEAC had a range of these all-in-one systems identical to my GF-330, then the GF-350 which has cassette recorder for a CD recorder. next came the fact that it reintroduced a cassette player. and finally the GF-550USB, which added a USB my previous experience with a different style was overall surprisingly positive so let's first with the radio tuner whose so the FM radio tuner was picking sounds surprisingly good. now let's try AM a surprising amount of next the CD player which is pretty number display and no programming, the job done. ironically I'll test it &quot;what great music deserves is &quot;clarity to make every detail sparkle&quot; &quot;and an open spacious sound to the cassette deck is definitely I tried playing a tape in it and you can see head but everything else is caked in that's much better and yes this is just with a permanent magnet erase head but it and it has a beat cut switch on the back which it also has full auto stop which means fast forwarding when you reach the end of the tape although as you just saw the rewind &quot;Jam presents Digital Mix... the first package that's truly designed for for some reason fast forward is not working so that could be a sign it needs new belts now I'll give you a direct hookup sample AM radio, and a CD onto this Sony HF &quot;you're gonna play yourself, they gonna Top Dog if you you want that top dollar he you about to call a rookie play yourself top dollar, don't you? you want top dollar of their name that'll make them good? top dollar any accident big or small life &quot;...the web site address listed on the new dolls for the main characters Galinda and wicked.com the only problem is that's actually for the upcoming movie the adaptation Thanksgiving and several brands including launched collaborations the issue was first site for the film is wickedmovie.com &quot;whether you're serious about or about the latest brain-shaking rock to help you make recordings that are original... and speaking of shaking I put on an official TEAC STL-103 stylus around 6 grams... actually so that is a pretty heavy tracking tonearm normal use. you'd need to play your records 100 and likewise while this is a plastic platter it's not going to scratch your records. and loose and bouncy, that's by design: it's of course we have to test it with some Dale cueing lever but it's not damped so you'll I think as you can hear unlike most with this cheap turntable mechanism it through the built-in speakers, and it'll for playing old shellac 78 RPM records designed for the wider grooves these records there's no auto stop or auto return so you'll have to pick up the tonearm taking off the back cover reveals the speakers which contributes also reduces the amount of resonance from peeking through one of the bass ports have pretty good-sized magnets on at 10 watts nominal. 15 watts maximum which and there are all the internal components: the main circuit board with the radio tuner and heat sink. way down in front is the cassette motor and the speed adjustment trimmers which on the right is for 33, the middle one is to remove the turntable mechanism you have some hot glue holding them in before I could disconnect them... this one then there's this retaining clip you then it easily pulls up and out. the turntable Mabuchi M logo they turned it upside down but at least this little circuit board with the speed adjustment trimmers on it was says GF-330 player speed PCB. it has the phono cartridge is also a knockoff, not a just like that motor I think the knockoffs were and also the tonearm actually whereas the ones made today usually leave it off and with no auto stop or auto return is because there basically is no mechanism -- just a plastic frame and you just have the and to make servicing easier you just more cables and then the entire the cassette deck mechanism has another a pretty thick metal flywheel and replaced they're getting a bit here's a closer look at the main circuit board. fuses and two bridge rectifiers. this is the chip mounted to this heatsink. this is the bar antenna. the tuner chip is a Toshiba chip is the electronic switch for those soft-touch PT233. and finally this is the cassette recorder the cassette deck belts have been with the help of this hook tool I didn't I need to adjust the speed of the motor the cassette player is running a bit I should tweak that to make it closer to any better than that in terms of wow &amp; or possibly even Tanashin-knockoff mechanism 0.8%. that's the best I've ever seen actually and there it is is after I also replaced the turntable belt it up a bit by adding this fancy gold trim ring and I added some damping fluid to the cueing lever and here's the same test of the turntable after not as good as the cassette deck but given its use of such a cheap mechanism. and for the final finishing touch I wheat light bulb to the tuning dial the dark and looks a lot more similar to the so if you come across one of these TEAC because it looks similar to a of sound quality and performance there