The Australian dream is dying. This idea of encouraging people to buy a house when you're young and accumulate wealth over time, has made Australians the fourth richest people on earth. But their housing market is on fire. The median cost of a house doubled from under 500,000 in 2011 to nearly 1,000,000 in 2024. And wages didn't keep up. Australia is a massive country, roughly the size of the United States without Alaska, but they only have five large cities. Sydney and Melbourne account for 40% of their total population. And together with Adelaide, they're on the list of ten least affordable cities in the world, where it costs upwards of ten times the annual income to buy a house. So more people are looking to rent. It is extreme, but not uncommon to see dozens of people waiting in line for inspections. This demand is one of the reasons why rents are now spinning out of control. Placing the Australian dream of buying a house even further out of reach. This is Australia's housing crisis... with Hindsight. Across the Western world, the housing market is under stress. But there are something fundamentally different about Australia. The demand for rental properties is insane. The realtor made them wait for 30 minutes and judge for yourself if this apartment is worth it. On Facebook Marketplace one landlord in Queensland was advertising single beds and shipping containers for $200 per week. Another landlord offered his veranda. What makes Australia's situation different is that they used to be the top of the class in terms of affordability, the percentage of people who owned their house and they had fewer disadvantaged neighborhoods. But that is changing. In the 1950s, Australia was doing well. They had some of the best living standards in the world and the economy was growing. This is when the Great Australian Dream was popularized. The ideal became to own a detached house on a quarter acre block in the suburbs, with a garden and a Holden, the true Australian car. It now became affordable to own a car and there was a demand for space. This led Australian cities to spread out. Today, Melbourne is six times larger than London, but with fewer inhabitants. Sydney is even more extreme. It is 14 times larger than Berlin, but with only 2 million more inhabitants. The government stimulated home ownership with policies like the first home owner grant. All these efforts worked. Home ownership jumped from 52% in 1950 to a peak of 71% in 1968. This happened in other countries as well, but Australia was top of the class. The Great Australian Dream is the belief that home ownership will lead to a better and more prosperous life. This was backed up by government policies that kept housing affordable and within reach. Before we dive into this dramatic reversal, a quick word from my sponsor. When I finish working today, I will most likely relax a little bit and watch some Netflix. But did you know the catalog that you see is just a fraction of what they have? ExpressVPN, the sponsor of today's video. Routes your internet through a country of your choice. For example, if you want to watch friends but you live in the United States, it's not going to be on Netflix. But you can use ExpressVPN to connect to the UK and bam, there it is. You can connect to over 100 countries, unblocking all content that's available on 50 streaming platforms. This works on your smart TV, but also on your phone, laptop or tablet. And a subscription is for eight devices. I'm only using it on three, so that gives me five devices to give away to friends. This is one of the best reviewed VPNs out there. On CNET, ExpressVPN received a score of 8.8, making it their number one VPN. Go to ExpressVPN.com/hindsight to get three months for free. This gives you full access to all the subscriptions you pay for, and it keeps your data protected. Okay, so thanks again ExpressVPN for sponsoring this video. And let's go back to the video. So housing is a fundamental part of the Australian way of life. Their houses used to be exceptionally affordable and they had high rates of home ownership. That all turned upside down. And this is now a political issue. Politicians and commentators will offer dozens of explanations that are in line with their political goals. 2025 is election year which turns on the heat. But let's back up a bit. Where did it actually go wrong? There was a major shift of priorities in the 1980s, from seeing housing primarily as a fundamental human right towards investing in housing for profit. The government incentivized people to buy a second home and to put this on the market to rent. This increased the number of investors on the market, increased demand, and thus raising prices. It is contested to what extent these policies affected housing, but especially on the left. It is often criticized. But this is part of a much larger puzzle. This last decade was a wild ride. Interest rates dropped and dropped even further, with the goal to support economic growth and to maintain inflation. During the pandemic, like in many other countries, they dropped to nearly zero. These extremely low rates made it easier for people to get a loan for a house, which meant that it increased demand, thus raised prices. On top of this, the government spent billions of dollars on programs that intended to help low and middle income families to buy their first house. This helped a lot of Australians, but it also led to more demand. And you see where I'm going with this. A lot of factors led to more demand, and this wouldn't be a problem if it was properly balanced by more supply. But that's one of the things that went wrong. The number of government sponsored public houses that were built dropped from a peak of 20,000 in 1978 to just 3,000 in 2023. These houses are intended for people with low incomes, and they add a layer of security against homelessness. Demand for this type of housing was increasing, but government investment significantly declined. Another hurdle holding back construction was an increasing amount of red tape. All those regulations drastically limits the private sector. But there's more to it. One of Australia's challenges is that most demand is for houses near the inner cities. This is where you'll find the best job opportunities, schools, and infrastructure. But there is much local resistance. Plans to build high density housing is often met with protests. Most people want more housing, but not in our backyard is the resounding chorus. On top of this, there are supply chain issues and a shortage of workers. These factors put together resulted in insufficient supply. Thus, higher prices. While all of this was going on, Australia in the past two years led in a record number of immigrants. Their population growth is almost entirely driven by overseas migration. It slowed significantly during the pandemic to just 25,000, but then it reached a record high with a peak in September 2023. Critics argue that this was irresponsible because it coincided with extreme difficulties in the construction sector. It was now 40% more expensive to build a home than it was before the pandemic, and supply restraints led to a building to take 18% longer to be completed. This added even more demand when supply was low, raising prices. Immigration can help Australia fill gaps in its labor force but it's also adding to already mounting domestic pressures. In 2024, it became an increasingly political topic. The peak of record immigration coincided with five consecutive quarters of a shrinking GDP per capita, the longest recorded decline in Australia's history. It also coincided with a record increase in what Australians are paying for rent, This is all part of a worrying long term trend. In 1971, these were the average house prices in Australia's main cities, adjusted for inflation. By 2024, they had more than quadrupled. This is happening all around the world, but in Australia it's more extreme. In 1987, a house in Australia cost 2.8 times the annual income. Similar to other countries. By 2019, this was up to 6.9 times, outpacing the US Canada in the UK. But in 2023 it went up to 9.7 times the annual income, the highest in the world after Hong Kong. The great Australian dream of owning a house and accumulating wealth over time is getting out of reach. A full time worker on a minimum wage now spends on average 68% of their income on rent. This makes it impossible to save up for a down payment on a house. This increases the number of people that will always rent while homeowners are becoming incredibly wealthy. The fear is that this can create a two class society. Wealthy homeowners against disadvantaged renters. In 2025, there are elections. Prime Minister Albanese focuses on supply. In 2024, he announced a $32 billion plan to address the housing crisis. At its center is a plan to build 1.2 million new homes over the next five years. But his critics are skeptical. The RBA has already increased interest rates to almost where they were in 2011. This makes mortgages more expensive and this should result in less demand. The debate about tax breaks is once again rekindled. So is the debate about immigration. It is not about one of these issues. Nor is it about all of them. It is about balancing supply and demand. And this can be done in many ways. You could lower immigration, except all the good and bad that this will bring and demand will go down. You could also overhaul the planning restrictions and accept the consequences which might stimulate supply. It is not possible nor desirable to include all factors and possibilities in a debate about housing. That's why politicians and commentators often simplify the issues into a couple of talking points that resonate with their voters and viewers. This is, of course, happening all around the world, but Australia is unique in that it transformed from having one of the best and most affordable housing markets into one of the worst and least affordable, and then perhaps nowhere else. Homeownership is so intimately connected with their national identity. A recent poll asked the question, do you think owning your own home is part of the Australian way of life? And 93% answered yes to the follow up question. Are you concerned about being able to buy a house during your lifetime? 68% answered a lot or a little. It is now up to politicians to convince Australians on how to best address this issue. But there is at least some consensus amongst economists. In a recent poll, most agreed to ease planning restrictions and to provide more public housing. There is also support for tightening tax laws that stimulate housing as an investment, and to reform how states collect taxes on housing. Now subscribe to my channel if you want to see more videos like this, and don't forget to click on the description link to get a special discount. ExpressVPN is granting to our subscribers. This application will protect your data while you browse and gives you full access to all block content on the internet. It is totally risk free, so check it out. Link in the description.