The Mediterranean. He can see me! Destination of wildlife filmmaker and home to animals you wouldn't expect [dolphin clicking] [Thomas] Come, get to the boat! Get on the boat, quickly! An exciting quest for the biggest [they laugh] They swam right between us. The expedition will travel to the steep cliffs of West Africa. With a team of top experts in sea mammals Thomas Behrend is on his way The German spends much but this journey is unusual. He is on the trail Six million years ago, It wasn't until it became a sea from the Atlantic One of these ancient travelers appears: a female loggerhead turtle on her way The research vessel Nereis. On board, Thomas Behrend and Greece's leading expert Their goal is to document the secret life You know, almost everybody I told to see sperm whales was laughing about me. But they are here, aren't they? Yes, of course they are, when we say that we are studying But if I look to the Mediterranean, which is comparatively shallow and small, can it really host sperm whales? Yes, of course it can, because the Mediterranean We are very close to the deepest point which is 5125 meters. It's a lot. And all along the Hellenic trench The most important for the sperm whales, it's the steep slope at the end of the continental shelf. This is important for them. We will go all along the Hellenic trench and hopefully, practically certain, that we will find sperm whales. -Let's go! It doesn't take long The expedition encounters the most common a school of dolphins, including calves. Although baby dolphins are suckled they have to swim with the pod But the team isn't here they want to track down whales. For this purpose, [Thomas] What is the reason that [Alexandros] Well they produce clicks, because this is the way They send these clicks and from the echo they can receive information This is the way they navigate, that they find their food, that they understand there are And our chance to find them. Exactly. From these clicks. The hydrophone, basically a hose trails in the water a hundred meters But today, the gods Alexandros is steering a zig-zag course, [Thomas] Alexandros, Is there any reason we have [Alexandros] Oh yes, today it wasn't easy, and this is because we heard them ahead, but ahead means at almost 180 degrees ahead of the boat. So we don't know if they are really ahead, And we should check -And any sperm whale clicks? yes, I just start hearing [clicking on headset] Yes, definitely, [speaks Greek] Alexandros instructs the crew Spotting whale spouts takes a lot of experience. [woman shouts] Blow ahead! [excited conversation in Greek] Sperm whales? They jumped up, or what? It's the filmmaker's lucky day. [Alexandros] Our first sperm whale! Just two hours on the sea Do you think we can try [Alexandros] Yes, if this goes on this could be a nice opportunity Alexandros won't permit diving until [Alexandros] You can start preparing, But the animals are just not cooperating Are the whales close again? If the tail fin appears It won't turn up for another half hour, Oh, they go down, they don't like it. The next opportunity. But behind Thomas' back Oh, no! They dive again. That's it. Okay. Too late. An everyday story Some days later. The craggy coastline of Greece. Stretching over thousands of kilometers, it's the ideal habitat for the monk seal, so rare it could almost be described Thomas hopes to find the animal the Greek leading expert on monk seals. But it's a game of luck, The best chances are in autumn Because at that time, and as they are really good mothers they spend much time nursing the pups. So we have many more chances And if I would go do I have any chance to film them? No chances, no chances! It's like a needle in a barn. Thomas and Vassilis are travelling the only one in Greek waters designated They want to install in a cave visited periodically by seals. The men chose springtime, as this is the season Nevertheless, they proceed cautiously. [whispering] Listen! There's a seal... A sudden movement grabs What? Vassilis! Vassilis. He makes a surprising discovery. A male monk seal has taken shelter But why? Vassilis is worried and looks for clues [Vassilis] We better leave now. Because I think she is wounded, Okay. So as not to disturb the seal, the men The caves are the seals' last refuge, In the old times, they were giving birth but now due to the change of the habitat, because they were pushed, let's say, from human disturbance now they give birth inside caves. Which are very unsafe, Because in case of stormy weather, then the waves are crushing into the caves But if it was born on a beach, as you understand, it would just go It would be safe. The next morning begins with a dive inhabited by the seals. Thomas soon finds the entrance to a cave. It's a dark world, but full of life. Caverns like these are favorite But the only animals the filmer A slipper lobster hides in the darkness. A delicacy for humans and monk seals [scuba equipment bubbles] The beam of Thomas' torch clustered together at the far end A forked hake seizes its chance. The cave is home to all kinds but no monk seals. This inhabitant of the sea Octopuses are rarely seen in daylight, With good reason. They can change their color Studies show that today around half Fish, the normal diet of seals, because the Mediterranean As the octopus settles almost directly it's evident that some of its arms It may well already have experienced At sunset the expedition leaves the island Idyllic appearances can be deceptive. Overfishing in the Mediterranean is Many species are being driven But there is still hope: new life will emerge tonight. The new arrivals are loggerhead turtles. A dangerous journey Even those who survive But the females who make on the beach where they were born. After the run of bad luck Thomas and Alexandros decide They travel on to Crete. Greece's largest island is a windy place. Meltemi, the summer wind, sweeps through and is responsible for Crete's blue skies. Some days, it brings force 8 winds For the next few days, For Thomas, the situation is frustrating. Time is slowly running out. With each day that passes, the chances of Thomas getting any are growing slimmer. And each new day puts ever greater [water splashes] Back to reality. Giant squid is the favorite food but the sea around Greece So what are these whales hunting? Thomas hopes to find the answer [stall holders shout] Much of the fish here The overfished Mediterranean can no longer [shouts] It takes Thomas a while Is this squid here? Yes, squid from deep sea. Not exactly plentiful: A sperm whale needs between [insects chirp] Eventually the weather improves [Alexandros] Hi, Thomas! -Good to see you again! -Fine, fine. And you? -Everything good on the boat? So, let's have some sperm whales, huh? -Okay! Will the team be any more successful Alexandros has been on research trips during which he didn't see Today, however, luck is on their side and they encounter their first group [whales clicking] This time, the whales are more trusting: they don't flee and even show an interest Alexandros can get some pictures. These seem to be old acquaintances. [whale cries] [Alexandros] Ah, I think If this is Pylos group, Studies show that Mediterranean whales never cross into The small population The crystal-clear water allows the whales The adults are about 10 meters long. Almost the whole group has dived, These are a calf and a juvenile, probably, waiting at the surface for the mother The baby will never Well, it depends. It happens when we are and they are adapted to our presence. They leave sometimes the baby close Do they leave it -They trust us actually, yes. A major cause for the recent decline they get entangled in high-sea driftnets [whale clicks] Recovery is slow, especially for [Thomas] Alexandros, why do they try They are inspecting the boat. It's the only position where they can They have 3D vision. Because of the big head, they can see either with the one so when they want they stay like this and they look [Thomas] Okay. For the first time on the expedition, the They've come together for a rare meeting. An ideal opportunity [Alexandros] Okay, be ready! Diving among these gigantic creatures Thomas approaches them with respect. The animals are enormous It would be the easiest thing in the world The whales turn to the camera For Thomas it's strange feeling. He wonders what the whales think of him. And will they just keep watching him or is there going to be Then the giants bunch up close together. The behavior of whales is mysterious. Thomas doesn't know But he knows that in large males, one third of the body length is used to produce sounds the world's largest biological Still very little is known Just before the end of the dive, one of the whales below the filmer accelerates and his bulky body Yoo-hoo! Thomas's patience has paid off. He's finally got What he doesn't know is that as an underwater filmmaker [insects chirp] A few days later. Thomas and Vassilis return to the cave There's no sign of it. Hoping its made a recovery, they try So where do you think the mother will be? This rock you see over here, as we have the rock, in September, October So this area from over there it will be a space for the pups And the mothers will lay down around here. And some of them if they want then they can use, you see, Goes a bit further up And do you think they... No, they like to put their head Ah, okay. You have to always keep in mind that during a storm, here things are much, much different. Oh, it's not easy. Finally they find a sheltered spot, a slanting rock face The installation takes place in stages. First comes the noisy part. Vassilis has told Thomas that and spray sweeps all over the cave. [Thomas] Okay. If seawater gets on the lens and dries, the salt crystals will prevent the camera [Thomas] Okay. An aluminum plate serves as a mount. Then he installs the camera. It can be moved in any direction enabling footage to be shot Later, no-one will be allowed so all the control and recording equipment has to be located outside. [speaks German] A bold venture. The cliffs above the cave Freeclimbing is not is not necessarily But the only reasonably flat surface to mount the solar panel is a small plateau high above sea level. Finally, all the technical equipment and is ready to be installed. Without this technology, the crew would and the seals might get a scent of the A specially programmed computer Thanks to the internet, the footage As soon as there is any activity Thomas will return. [waves crash gently] A seal has been spotted off With patience and a bit of luck, It's a game of hide and seek Suddenly there's a shadow. The phantom appears. His first monk seal, an adult male. Thomas scarcely dares to breathe. Should he follow the seal? It doesn't seem to feel threatened. What an opportunity: this is the footage It seems to be completely relaxed... [seal clicking regularly] But what do the sounds mean? [seal continues clicking] The clearly audible clicking who's never heard of such behavior. Curious, the seal approaches. [resumes clicking] A few minutes later Not wanting to disturb the animal, the Back in port, he can't wait [seal clicking on screen] Well... That's very strange. So why did he do that? I don't really know! You have recorded something... [chuckles] That most probably that somebody records [seal clicking] Showing off, calling something, It is not a hostile behavior, [seal clicking] A new puzzle for us. -[Thomas] I'm very glad to hear this. The behavior of monk seals Back on Alexandros' boat. The Mediterranean is a busy place, It's too noisy, too much noise. -[Thomas] You hear the propellers? [Thomas] And this is all [Alexandros] Yeah, just from this boat. Sperm whales are becoming deaf. And the problem is that the collisions of vessels with sperm whales Urgh. All these are sperm whales, you can see the propeller marks, they are huge. -Is this from the propellers? Actually almost the entire sperm whale You can imagine if you have And more than one per year is disappearing then the impact to the population is big. It's probably not sustainable. In spite of the ships propeller sounds, They should appear. They stopped clicking, at any moment. We have to be careful. Blow! Blow over there! But this time something is different. [crew speaking Greek] Eight whales. They are really speeding, We don't understand why. Then the whales suddenly stop. A few position themselves It looks as though the females As yet, nobody knows that their behavior [Alexandros] Thomas, this may be nice. Prepare yourself! [Alexandros] When you are ready, Thomas can't make out what's going on and thus has no idea what awaits him. In a hurry he prepares for diving. [Alexandros] You can go! The moment the filmmaker has waited for The whales have never been so close [whales clicking] But the giants are busy. The last thing they seem to need [whales clicking] Thomas has no clue what's going on. Unnoticed amongst the mass a baby sperm whale has been born. Curious, it heads straight for the camera. Mother and aunt do not approve [whales clicking rapidly] The females have to keep the calf And they have to deal with [whales clicking] An aunt joins the mother. The situation gets out of control. [Alexandros] Come on the boat quickly! Thomas swims as fast as he can. But the whales are in hot pursuit Barely a meter behind, [rapid clicking] [Alexandros] Come closer to the boat here! If they wanted to, the whales could easily [Alexandros] Behind the boat! [shouting in Greek] [rapid clicking] As the crew pulls Thomas out of the water, [Thomas speaking rapidly in German] He is confused, Thomas says that one of the whales [speaking German] [Alexandros] Can you see the newborn? Yes, yes, yes. [Alexandros] In the middle. The whales didn't want to hurt Thomas, they just wanted to protect Thomas never intended [crew members] Wow! But after all the commotion it was a lucky day For Alexandros, this is a first. After ten years spent studying whales, Thomas is overwhelmed. As all young animals, It really looks for support, Amazing, continuously. The newborn calf weighs It's spent more than a year and will take another year or two's -Thank you very much for this opportunity! How is it for you? I mean, you have seen [Alexandros] This is something Two years ago the same social unit but it was one day old. Now it's one hour old That's why they were running, to gather, because they understood that one of them [they laugh] Thank you so much, that was the most... exciting experience I've ever had The crew will soon take their leave The turbulent events they've experienced have forged strong bonds They're bringing back pictures And the newborn calf gives them hope the giants of the Mediterranean [Thomas] How big are the chances Here in the Mediterranean I think, they have much more chances, Of course, there are other risks and, of course, the mother has to dive But if the mother has a problem This is why they have this social unit, because the social unit protects The whales may have a future, A few hundred years ago, monk seals would have been They inhabited almost every coastline. Today, a few animals live off the coasts Other than that, there is only one The western Sahara. What chances of survival do the monk seals Before the birthing season begins Thomas travels to west Africa. Western Sahara is a land of extremes. One of the places in the world hits upon an inhospitable desert. Since the 1990s, Spanish scientists have to protect monk seals. When the seals aren't hunting, they Close by, a mother and her pup. Something Thomas would never see [seals cry] Today, the camera mounted Abseiling down is an absolute exception. Even if the seals don't seem bothered, [calls] The interior of the cave One glance inside reveals why: The beach offers the animals Directly above the cave The scientists watch events in the cave The camera also allows them valuable data for the scientists. [researchers speaking Greek] Now, in October, all eyes are on the [speaking Greek] [translation] Fifty pups more than at any time It seems that the population here a hopeful sign for the colony. A strip of coastline, is home to about 200 seals, half as many In the evening Thomas checks his e-mails [Thomas] It's working, we have the baby! The cave camera in Greece Thomas decides to return But the weather in Greece The fall storms have begun. The pictures from the cave are disturbing. Did the pup manage to find shelter Or has something terrible happened? As soon as the storm dies down, No, there's nothing Vassilis is worried She knows, the mother knows, Now let's try to see if we can move here. Vassilis is still hopeful that the mother If the pup is injured, the men The two men are extremely cautious. The last thing they want because she might then abandon her pup. Thomas and Vassilis look in a dozen caves, Always with the same sobering result: nothing! Even though they're getting further they're not about to give up. It's not until they go to an island that Vassilis finds a sign of life. There is a track And it smells. That means they slept, Then, at last, Vassilis finds It seems to be fine [squawks] Vassilis takes a quick hair sample The pup doesn't feel a thing. Then Vassilis leaves But the young one decides to follow him. A golden opportunity for the filmmaker. As long as the mother is away, Maybe the baby seal The newborn is still on the beach. A seal. Not the pup, but another It was probably here when they arrived. Caves are often used This allows for better protection when the adults are off hunting. And then the pup appears. Unlike adults, Playfully, they explore at the same time steadily increasing the Scientists estimate that there are only left in Greek waters. Thus, encounters such as these The pup is still young and its mother will only leave it In a few weeks, it will be left to fend What fantastic footage. Better than Thomas could have hoped for. The young male will grow to a length of and weigh roughly 300 kilos. The female will be a little shorter Finally, it's time to leave. That was really stunning. -Good, yeah? -Really good. They swam between us. It's incredible! And they are not afraid about it? He was... It seems that it was used You see, it was really accustomed So that was really great. -Good, good. No disturbance, nothing. [engine starts] This is an experience Back on board Vassilis' elation [indistinct chat] What do you think will be With one word I can say: not promising! There are so many things If I have to compare this and my involvement I am very disappointed. Because the population What are the things we have to do? We have to do more marine protected areas, more &quot;no take&quot; zones, with corridors between them, in order to also to increase But also to apply more measurements, of the human activities, which is actually the main cause that So... and if we don't do that, Do you think that's possible? Yes, if we keep going what we do today, yes, they will extinct. On the one hand the expeditions for both scientists and filmmaker. On the other hand they show to save the giant and the phantom German filmmaker Thomas Behrend has been fascinated by the world On diving expeditions which take him he encounters creatures which very few Oh! This animal is massive! Are you sure? This time Thomas is on the search and gets closer to them than expected. [manatee squeaks] Together with a team of experts, the cameraman is setting off on a quest The search will take them Thanks to modern technology, unique images are captured [equipment beeping] Thomas tracks down another behemoth, this one in the rivers of Florida: the manatee. With him are people of this endangered species [man] One, two, three, pull... The trail of the world's leads Thomas first to California. The ocean sunfish is observed regularly [seabirds cry] Supporting the filming is underwater Mike has been photographing sunfish and knows exactly how Thomas is interested in how these deep-sea fish The answer lies directly off the coast: giant seaweed, also known as kelp, Only beneath the surface can the true It reaches up to tree-height, The alga can reach 30 meters in height, and can grow up to one meter Balloon-like, gas-filled bladders The kelp forest offers nutrition Well hidden in the tangle of stipes, The giant alga is anchored by the holdfast, an adhesive organ. Although it may appear otherwise, The alga draws its nutrition from The kelp labyrinth To fish like the kelp bass, spawning opportunities, all in one. In turn, the rich fishing grounds Sea anemones trap their prey at the base, while the enormous sunflower star roams through all the levels The ocean sunfish, however, Nevertheless, its appearance off the coast Tides and waves tug continuously When they tear away, then drift towards the open sea. These floating stipes will lead Thomas and [engine starts] We wanna get out offshore into deeper water where we're more likely Okay. Thomas and Mike get clear of the coast. The kelp is floating Will they find the right place The Crystal River in western Florida. Here Thomas is in search The Crystal River is one of the A paradise, especially for birds. Brown pelicans have spotted Virtually exterminated by pesticides they are once again a common sight here. Thomas is going diving Bob knows Florida's manatees Manatees are supposed to be sea mammals, So what are they doing They are marine-adapted, And they will come in and utilize rivers to take advantage of the warm water and to look for forage I've got a satellite picture here You see manatees can move incredible they can go all the way They can go along the Atlantic seaboard if they so desire. So their migration capability Manatees are really marathoners if they need to and if they want to. The Crystal River is one of the most The building boom of recent decades Now only the Three Sisters Springs Bob wants to check which of his charges are spending the winter here He's been observing them for decades. By now they have become a part [Bob] Oh, it's a privilege. I mean, face it, and there were a few manatees out there but even today there are more and so we see the reaps and the rewards with our conservation, They are magnificent animals [narrator] Bob can identify based on their particular features. A waterproof pen and sketch board [Bob] It's basically my way I've done the best I could to draw and as I see scars on the manatee I'll draw on each of the silhouettes so you can write down the number so that when I get back into the office Oh, you can't help but love a manatee, Old pioneers and sailors They must have been at sea but if you look at them closely and you They really are a very interesting [narrator] Bob's investigations can reach an advanced age Their laid-back way of life often as their many injuries testify. [Bob] Generally, you know, no manatee that they interact with As you can see many of these manatees, have some evidence [narrator] Back to the wild Far out on the Pacific on their search Thomas and Mike are on the lookout Mike makes the decisive discovery. [Mike] Birds are really an important We may not see the kelp, And if we see birds together that tells us there's probably [birds cry] It's hard for Thomas to believe that he'll encounter the largest bony fish under such a small layer of seaweed. While Mike secures the boat the filmmaker prepares for his dive. Under the floating seaweed This tiny island in the middle of the vast Shoals of sardines and perches in the shadow of the kelp. Thomas is impressed with the vibrant life Blue halfmoon perches while treefish are hatched in the kelp. Thomas is so busy filming swimming purposefully in one direction. Out of nowhere, an ocean sunfish Now it's obvious who the halfmoon perches How the sunfish found the floating island although the reason for his arrival The sunfish and the halfmoon perch The larger animal is seeking the help to rid himself of annoying parasites. These incomparable fish communicate The sunfish raises himself up and freezes: the invitation for the perches The skin of the common mola, is one of the thickest at around seven centimeters. It stabilizes the creature's huge body but doesn't protect The secretive fish disappears from Molas can be found spread not just on the American Pacific coast. All the same, In the evening Ocean sunfish have been seen off the coast of the island of Elba. The filmmaker and decides to fly to Europe. This search will be harder as there are no kelp islands The team prepares in Elba harbor. This time the expedition will go down On board is underwater photographer Last year he spotted some ocean sunfish Roberto, I've got a map here from Elba. Do you remember [Roberto] It comes very close So you just have to go... The depth is pretty much, but we have to dive a lot. We have to stay a long time at the bottom because otherwise the chance we have I am afraid, because the time frame last year, Good, then let's go! Last time, the sunfish disappeared Thomas is relying on the remotely operated It's expected to provide pictures An opportunity which shark expert This is a chance of a lifetime! We hardly ever go so deep So anything we find out And molas, we know that sharks eat molas, so wouldn't it be fantastic if we saw a shark attacking a mola Fingers crossed! The team complete, It doesn't take long for the boat Close to the island, It's too deep for longer dives here. So the underwater ROV is used The team is excited, -[beeping] Such a violent impact The ROV doesn't react. The two technicians are at a loss. For Thomas, it's the worst thing Someone must now go down Roberto takes the plunge. Only with a special rebreather set can he And his time on the sea floor is limited. Thomas is not comfortable with the thought [speaks German] After a few nerve-wracking minutes, A short while later He must wait one more hour before he can safely return [men strain with effort] In the meantime, the team salvages and begins the diagnostic check [birds cry] Towards the evening The drive control is broken meaning a long enforced break Back to Florida. The manatees are still dozing Their metabolisms are so slow that they would freeze The morning grooming routine They rid the manatees As with the mola, seems to incite the shoal of fish Not far away from the warm springs, Thomas and Bob Bonde Thomas is amazed. They are heading straight for the two men. [manatee squeaks] In winter the creatures only leave in order to graze on the riverbed. Manatees are the only sea mammals The vegetarian lifestyle especially when there are young to feed. Mothers spend eight hours a day [manatee squeaks] Manatees take every aspect of life A reason why they only reproduce Unlike most mammals, manatees Their Indian name probably comes from manati means breast. No-one can distract the mother neither the calf in tow nor the diver. She only interrupts her meal Every five to eight minutes Then it's back to the guzzling. [manatee chewing vegetation] The calf has drunk the milk supply dry. Only when the mother has produced Tracking down manatees in a shallow river than finding a sunfish I hope this is stable enough... Without the help of experts the quest would be hopeless. She is exclusively researching molas. It wasn't really until graduate school My advisor had a little picture And that was just the craziest looking Just a little picture, for such a big fish The team wants to fix Tierney has already provided more than with transmitters for her research. This is a weight to carry, so the larger [Thomas] Mmm-hmm. So, we are looking for an animal It's all we need. So we look for kelp paddies, and we listen for Darin who's got Darin Maurer, the pilot, from up in his plane Darin, you pick me up on 78? Yeah, roger. Uh, not seeing Roger. This calls for patience... not exactly No. The hours pass with no word from Darin. Thomas uses the time to learn more Who is eating the mola? We can see who has been eating them often. Sealions will eat them, orcas, It's fun that parasites really are... We find shark... larval shark tapeworm parasites and so we know that for that tapeworm it has to get into a shark which means the shark's [Darin on radio] Thomas. 456, Thomas you picking me up? I've got another animal here Roger. We'll be heading your way, over. Will the sunfish stay on the surface Mike pushes his little boat to the max. It's four miles to the north-east We're closing in on an animal [Mike] Okay, it's off to our nine. [indistinct radio chatter] Yeah, we got him! Things have to happen quickly now. [Thomas] I've got him! [Tierney] Hold on, hold on. -[Tierney] Where is the scalpel? Tierney has problems into the centimeters-thick skin [Tierney] I have to get it straight down. [grunts] Thomas you gotta bring him up! [Thomas] Okay. I'll try! [Thomas grunts] [Tierney] Okay. [Tierney] Measure. Dockline, dockline. [Mike] I got it, got it. Ready? Set. Let's go. Made it. Tierney releases the fish back to freedom. Still a little dazed, the creature The transmitter will plot before detaching itself Alright! Roger, the tag was deployed. -That's good. [Tierney] Okay. [Thomas] Look, Mike, how slimy it is... Yeah. Look here all the slime. [Tierney] They have a very thick which may be a way against jellyfish stings as well. But that's a protective mucus coating that can protect them The injured hands are evidence of the The day has been a complete success Through the satellite transmitter, Tierney will get to know even more Animals bearing transmitters can also be found Thomas and Bob get on the trail. [equipment beeps regularly] It's clearly somewhere in this angle here. The signal is clear and distinct. The manatee must be nearby. The animals with transmitters help Bob to establish which parts of the river So there is some site fidelity patterns directly from putting radio tags on them and observing these migrations It's very important, because they use the waterways that we use So that interaction between boats So here is the entrance to the sanctuary [Thomas] Oh, yeah, here it is. [Bob] Oh, yeah. Beneath the buoy is a resting manatee [Bob] We were surprised and it looked like it had But at close examination we determined this animal had been attacked, before it had come into Crystal River. But there is very little evidence that manatees are actually preyed upon It does happen, but it's a pretty rare Very close to the men, obviously dangerously under-heated. A rescue team led by scientist Andrew and transport it to a special manatee Thomas is up close to the action. But first the creature has to be found. [squeaking] Eventually the helpers [indistinct] A colleague signals the exact position The net can be brought out. Everything must happen quickly, [Andrew] Get the ball from Mike, Finally, the manatee is in the trap, Take out that. Yeah, take 'em both. Further forward if you can, And Nora and Mike, you guys are way up Even further up if you can, Stacey. Only with combined strength can the several hundred kilo animal Alright, slack tail, slack tail, Ready? One, two, three, pull! Get a fish too. A jack. Here you go. The manatee is in a critical condition. One, two, three... It requires urgent medical attention. Veterinary surgeon Dr. Murphy from the is already waiting He begins first aid on the patient. [Dr. Murphy] She's in really bad shape. It's a cold, stressed animal, that's got a lot of infection She's been like that for a while. After Dr. Murphy the under-heated animal Her slow metabolism can only generate [Dr. Murphy] She's in critical shape. then we might be able But right now and she could easily die on us or could die on us There is a glimmer of hope however. The rescued animal Good news from Italy: the ROV This time it reaches its destination and provides some razor-sharp images. [Thomas] It's so beautiful. At 70 meters sprawls Cold, oxygen-rich water to sustain an unexpected abundance Only the ocean sunfish [Thomas] I think the best is, and then we pan from left to right That's all we can do. The hours pass, yet nothing happens. [Thomas] Nothing. -[Eleonora] What's that? And it's not alone. [Thomas] This is fantastic. [Eleonora] Three! Out of nowhere, three molas emerge But they are unsettled by the ROV. [Eleonora] Stop, stop, stop. -Stay here. Stay behind the sea ferns. A fourth fish now appears. The upright posture reminds Thomas he observed under the kelp island And true enough, like before, as if on a secret signal, Isn't this Coris julis? Yeah, the rainbow wrasse. Here in the Mediterranean, exactly as they the sunfish are looking for at which they can rid themselves Eleonora and Thomas are spellbound. Then comes a shout [man] Mola! The captain has seen a mola Right away, everyone is on deck. [Eleonora] Hurry up Yep! A school of pilot fish It's a hunting sunfish. His method may seem unspectacular, Molas feed mainly on jellyfish Although a single contact can be fatal for a human, sunfish gobble them up without hesitation. Their thick mucus coating against the blue poison tentacles. Thomas is delighted. But it won't be The reason why we going at night is because the sixgill shark And then at 2000 meters Which is also the reason which is capable to see in the dark. And we are going there at nighttime because he is used... he, she... Again, it's like looking for a needle A night dive among sharks Sometimes there can be a problem For safety, [air hisses] [Thomas] Okay, looks good. Yeah, I think we can go. Five, three, two, one, go! In the glow of their lamps, Eleonora and Thomas The sea looks completely lifeless. At around 30 meters Was that a shadow? Thomas can hardly believe his eyes. Right in front of them, At night these deep water dwellers The sluggish movements are deceptive; the four-meter-long shark Even though no attack on humans its size alone commands respect. The bright light of the lamps and he seems annoyed. The team doesn't want to risk anything, Like the sunfish, and is also a wanderer between Remains of molas have been found Just a coincidence? Or does the sixgill shark No-one knows the answer. To this day, hardly anything is known about these mysterious At the Crystal River in Florida, In a few weeks the manatees will leave Thomas wants to pay them one last visit before they disappear An animal approaches [squawks] The sirens, as earlier seafarers are supposed to have enticed men Thomas is also powerless to resist. Hardly is the cameraman in the water than the sea maiden has vanished As the cloud lifts, the colossus seems Unseen by Thomas, The filmmaker is surprised And it's not alone. The calf seems to be taking Thomas It faces an uncertain future, even more so since the explosion of the At least there is good news The hypothermia victim [Dr. Murphy] She seems to be a winner. if she's gonna lose some of her flippers cause of the severe cold injury to those And another patient, baby Coral, [Dr. Murphy] She didn't have enough time before it got really cold. Because she was radio-tagged, we all made a decision that the water she would most likely die before So we went ahead and rescued her. An estimated four-and-a-half thousand In winter 2010 almost one in ten making the work of the hospital [people chatter] With the help of a satellite transmitter, every movement of baby Coral The data can hopefully be used to more effectively protect -Watch out for the mud. I got it. For baby Coral, today marks the end and at the same time His experiences on the Crystal River Even though the homeland of the manatee he hopes to see these gentle giants [Thomas] Where shall we operate? A few months later in California. Now, high summer, is the best season And if there's anyone who'll find them, Yeah, I've seen the swordfish here here, here, here. [Thomas] My chances to see How do you think my odds are? [chuckles] I would say this year pretty slim. Pretty slim odds, I haven't seen very many large animals. It's just been a different weather pattern the water's cooler this year, um, so I haven't seen any. Okay, so you're gonna phone me Yeah. -Darin, see you out there! Time enough for a quick trip [Tierney] When the sun comes up at six in The scientist has followed via satellite for the last few months. Thomas notices a recurring pattern [Thomas] Seems like a normal working day, Going up at six? Look what we can see! It's going up and down, and up and down, And to deep water. Targets, presumably, its food And staying there for about an hour -So, why do they go up? There's a lot of things going on So it could be getting cleaned It could be warming itself. Also by being at the very surface, the sun could be baking off the parasites, And then when the sun sets, In the nighttime, so many animals [Thomas] Mmm-hmm. So while it may look like it's being Are there any more secrets What do you wanna still find out? We wanna know their behavior so that we can better inform fishermen. You know, how to change their nets The mola play a hugely important role because they are Back at harbor, Thomas gets the message [mobile phone rings] Hello. Darin, is it? Yep. No, really? Okay, in two hours, out at sea. The filmmaker sets off right away, [indistinct radio chatter] Darin, this is Thomas. Flying Fish, Flying Fish. I've got an animal here at 36. Okay, copy. See you there! The little boat Flying Fish [Darin] Flying Fish, Flying Fish, Yeah, this is a very large animal. Are you sure? This animal is... it's massive! Finally, Thomas and Mike Even from a distance, the filmmaker Thomas has dreamed of an encounter For months the cameraman has been on learning much and filming hitherto unknown scenes. This meeting, however, It's only a few fleeting moments, Then the mola vanishes once again into The northwest coast of the United States the home of nature filmmaker While dolphin expert Ute Margreff The two German expatriates have never met, Each in their own way, both have decided to dedicate their lives to the sea and its inhabitants. The rugged coastline of Ireland For the last 11 years, she has been studying solitary dolphins. The scientist has a special relationship Ute accompanies Mara all year round The Salish Sea in the northwest is characterized by fjords Fascinated by the untamed landscape, marine biologist and nature filmmaker has made a home on Puget Sound. He lives on Whidbey, Florian's house is only German shepherd Ciro when he sets out with his heavy camera This is where he spends every free minute. From here, he can get without having to carry While Florian dives, The shallow water with fields of green seagrass Here you see the world Goldeneye ducks look for food They comb the seagrass Suddenly, Florian has the feeling by a dozing harbor seal. The waving seagrass They can stay under water Their sedateness and chubby shape seals are in fact extremely athletic. It takes only a few flaps of their fins 700 meters under the surface. Although Florian comes across seals he's always impressed Some creatures are only discovered Bizarre-looking sea slugs graze which are home On the western edge of Europe, the wild coast of Ireland has been formed The Emerald Isle is a land Some of the most astonishing stories In her small apartment, Ute Margreff For many years, she has lived [horse grunts] ...without ever really Ute is heading for the seaside. Her diving site is just a short walk away. Purposefully, she heads for which like so many in Ireland is deserted. But this bay has a secret. In the year 2000, a dolphin turned up here and stayed. The fishermen christened the female Mara, Since that time, Ute has accompanied Probably the only human who voluntarily in the cold waters of the Atlantic. Every meeting begins Normally, dolphins live in groups, Ute will probably never know get separated from their families Over the years, has developed between Ute and Mara. This unconventional behavior who can thus accompany Mara The Atlantic is cold, good conditions Dolphins, however, [dolphin clicks] Mara's neighbors are mostly crabs For Ute, the excursions with Mara to explore the underwater world For hours, around her realm of seaweed and rock. [clicks] Boredom is a foreign concept. She wants to explore But Mara's sociability A young spider crab evades her approach Mara shares her habitat with real giants, The coast of Ireland is also home Even though its mouth is as big as a door, humans have nothing to fear Basking sharks are nomads of the ocean and will at some point disappear once more Vancouver Island, [folk music plays] Florian is hoping to find Together with his friend Todd Graves, Todd. I think we can stop here. There's something right there. And a bear does indeed appear Florian thinks it's come down where it's been eating wild fruits. So as not to disturb the bear, [pants] Three-quarters of a bear's diet When they eat animals, sometimes very small. When the tide goes out, the crabs hide under the stones, a fact that has not gone unnoticed But the bear doesn't appear to be On the Puget Sound, about an hour's drive also known as the Emerald City. The port is the pulsating center and its unmistakable skyline But Florian isn't here He is magically drawn to water. No-one at the pier is aware of And not that many people Florian is one of the few and he's hoping For the first few meters of his dive These, biggest of all species of sea lion, Thirty meters down, it's pitch black. This eternal darkness is home But it's not as easy to find Florian is just about to give up when he catches sight Like some weightless being a huge octopus moves through the murk, Wolf eels, too, have something The powerful jaws can crack open The giant octopus is on the lookout These mighty animals only live Towards the end of their lives, and afterwards starve to death. The love-hungry octopus but only startles a few wolf eels. One of the caves does indeed but she is not yet ready to mate. Florian's dive against the backdrop was a complete success. Now he knows Ireland was once known as evidenced by the numerous Off the southwestern tip of Ireland Historians surmise that 12 monks but 800 years ago the settlers Today, silent, sackcloth-clad ascetics have been replaced Puffins spend the summer here At the end of August, the puffins will once again disappear The craggy Irish coast is lobster country and sometimes the lobster fishermen Mara has attached herself Curious, she follows the line Lobsters can live as long if they don't succumb to the irresistible [clicks] This lobster throws caution [dolphin whistling] Whether intentionally or by chance, thanks to Mara's intrusiveness this is [dolphin calls] Her presence confuses the crustacean, which promptly beats a retreat. Mission accomplished, Mara moves on. She isn't the only solitary dolphin Ute Margreff visits Once a sleepy fishing village, after the unexpected appearance the place has changed beyond recognition. Fungie, as the dolphin was named, became a star and the pride of Dingle. [man on PA] Do not stand Thank you for listening and we hope you enjoy your trip. [narrator] People come from all over who for many of the fishermen But what if one day he fails to show up? [people cheer] At the moment, however, No other dolphin has stayed [people chatter excitedly] Ute's own life is closely linked He was her first great dolphin love, and the reason that she has stayed Fungie decides when the show is over. When he's had enough, he disappears. Where to, no-one knows. Deception Pass, a passage connecting with the broader Strait of Juan de Fuca. The area is well-known for orcas. No other animal fascinates Florian And the marine biologist The orcas in the Salish Sea In contrast to many of their relatives, they are not nomadic and are thus known Three clans totaling almost 90 animals For Florian, they are The orca clans here are divided into each with its own distinctive dialect. [orcas cry] They are superb hunters Due to the whales' unique behavior, scientists talk of They know each individual animal. But the huge creatures are in danger. The overfishing of salmon stocks is causing their populations Florian meets Kenneth Balcomb, Ken has been studying and has offered to identify The naming that we do is alphanumeric. The first pod that he saw, the second one was B pod. And within each pod And when he got down here the alphabet Okay, that's L78. Has an open saddle, That's J27, the one out in front is probably J30. [Florian] How were you able to say that? He's got a very tall dorsal fin. There's J30 and 33, they are about two and he is the older. -Alright. [Florian] They appear so strong And, actually, sizably, much stronger and yet they really depend on the females. Yeah, they're Mama's boys. [laughs] They, uh... They do what Mom says. And Mom gets to introduce them Florian hopes to see a lot of the On the Irish coast, as so often in this The force of the wind lashing land and sea For Mara, the huge waves are no problem. Effortlessly, she glides At some point, even the mightiest storm At the moment, it's still dangerous but Ute knows that right now a lot of interesting things There's also a lot for Mara Interesting flotsam This cap now has a new owner. Mara not only seems to know but also what it's for. She greets Ute with her new acquisition. [clicks] The dolphin watches with interest And the scientist has to ask herself After further examination, Mara loses her interest in the hat In the summer, many dreaming of meeting a dolphin Few have any idea how strong [whines] Ute uses her underwater camera to film Mara propelling stones [cries] The tourists can only guess but this certainly isn't the gentle animal [Mara cries] Ute's recordings show that, Mara has another, wild side. The children prefer to stay happy that Mara's outburst of emotion Mara's behavior has won the respect She has now calmed down again Wild dolphins don't react to whistles They take a decision and express movement and eye expression. Only someone like Ute can put themselves in their position. Mara displays the same behavior as Fungie: she decides when the show's over. They still interact with their own kind. Just during the day, they make... Ute's mission includes passing on Thus the bay becomes a temporary school. The night skyline of Seattle. Florian has returned to the realm The light from his lamps attracts a squid Then, as if from nowhere, a male octopus only to disappear into the darkness again Maybe the same one as before. Florian wants to know whether it managed but a thornyhead is blocking his view. When the fish finally moves away, fanning hanging threads Thousands of eggs form a curtain The female will be busy for six months and protecting them from predators. She will stay in the cave without eating Octopuses mate only once in a lifetime. It is the only time seek the company of their own kind. Florian is fascinated: it is very rare Most hide themselves away Without pause, the female blows and frees them from sediment. After hatching, the young This is the moment that some The mother octopus and her corpse will serve On the Emerald Isle, some time has passed Ute has been away for a few days and On her way there, that could appeal to Mara. But the dolphin is already waiting who has come with a friend Hallo! [Ute] Take a deep breath and go. Mara heads Hundreds of kinds of algae in all shapes Some, like the spaghetti-like thong weed, Brown and red algae, too, But Mara isn't here because she's hungry. [clicks] She brings Ute a piece of bladder wrack. Woo! Then she appears to ask for it back. [squeaks] The scientist understands This is somewhat of a sensation, as the use of tools by dolphins was Mara shows that dolphins She can't use the tool herself an anticipatory act of planning, After the massage, Mara swims purposefully Although they've known each other up until now dolphin and fisherman Often, one fleeting contact Was that the first time Yeah, the very first time. Because before I've seen him Absolutely amazing. I couldn't believe it. Wait till I tell my family when I go home. Ute and the fisherman say goodbye, Dolphins aren't the only sea mammals Mara shares her realm with harbor seals. Usually, these two loners Today, their curiosity Once again, it is Mara The seal is more cautious. Seals communicate visually. This one keeps Mara in view The unusual encounter lasts for a few Florian wants to show his wife Gina He sets out to sea again with Todd Graves. [Gina] It couldn't be a better day for it. -[Florian] Do you see them? I'm trying to see how many there are. The L family has turned up, the biggest Using a list of Ken's, the two try While Florian is busy filming, Look, Florian, look, there's a baby, too. Only three to five young are born each over two meters long. Orcas can be clearly identified I saw that one. That has a triangle. The light patch is like a V. I am pretty sure that's him. -[Gina] Mmm-hmm. [Gina] So some of these whales are so old. It really makes you have more respect I mean, you do anyway and then you Orcas aren't the only whales Every year, mighty grey whales Once almost extinct, Growing up to 15 meters in length, these huge creatures eat microscopic They feed only in the summer. The rest of the year At around 10,000 kilometers a year, their migratory routes are longer The mother animals give birth before setting off for Alaska. A perilous journey, These orcas aren't here to hunt salmon. The grey whale calf is in great danger. These orcas are not from here. They are transients that patrol They hunt gray whales. The mother desperately tries The hunt goes on for several hours. The constant attacks Despite its huge size, the grey whale The mother loses the unfair fight [sheep baa] On the Irish coast, Besides Mara and Fungie, another dolphin For two years, Duggie visited the little For Ben, the ferryman's dog, As soon as Duggie appeared in the harbor, As long as it stayed underwater, the dolphin was invisible to Ben, Nevertheless, the pair seemed [clicks] At one point, Duggie would surface or draw attention to himself As the scars show, this wasn't From a scientific point of view, above all if you're of the opinion that What the pair really felt when At first, the locals thought and asked Ute for help. [clicks] The two scrutinized each other closely. Dolphins perceive their environment Using various click sounds, [clicks] Ute was able to reassure that their dolphin was young, healthy She assumed that Duggie had and they'd been playmates ever since. She also thought it possible as suddenly as he appeared. As things turned out, she was right. After two years, Duggie stopped showing up and no-one knows if he will ever return. All that Ben has left are memories. Evening in Puget Sound. On a moonlit night, Florian prepares to Ciro waits for his master to return. Swarms of smelts are looking for food. These smaller fish that hides in the seagrass But its enemies, too, are on the prowl. A spiny dogfish is on the lookout Strange looking sea slugs Here, it's eat or be eaten. Bizarre creatures come up from the depths. Some of the jellyfish The seabed is a kaleidoscope There is no habitat so foreign to us It's an archaic world of darkness that seems to be from another time. Suddenly, particularly strange shapes Chimaera, deep sea dwellers, more than For Florian, encountering such animals They're living fossils that first roamed The male has grip organs in order to keep a hold of the female And a strange growth on its head. The light attracts a distant relative The next minute, a sixgill shark slowly swims past. This powerful animal, is also a deep-sea dweller Its sluggish movements are deceptive: the shark can swim extremely quickly. Even if no attacks on humans its size alone demands Florian's respect. Scientists think that sixgill sharks but, as viviparous creatures, Florian hopes one day The Salish Sea a wilderness that he has fallen deeply Ireland became Ute Margreff's new home where she pursues the study of solitary What Ute and Florian have in common is love and respect