I was exhausted and depressed from working The most stressful part was that... I had no one to confide in I failed as a mother, didn't I? I was very miserable then I couldn't fall asleep... and my eyes were wide open Something is wrong with me Hello! I'm Jason Chua My Chinese name signifies I call myself the &quot;Beng Who Cooks&quot; I'm an Ah Beng... and I can cook whatever I want to cook Why do I call myself an Ah Beng? Let me explain That's because... I grew up with mainly Malay friends I would call them &quot; Mat &quot; Over time, &quot;Ah Beng&quot; is a Singaporean slang It's a pronunciation that It's usually used to describe young men... who didn't receive a higher education, speak crudely Clearly, it's not a positive term, but 31-year-old Jason Chua Being called an Ah Beng... doesn't mean you drink, Most importantly, to me, it means to live the life I want It's a word that symbolizes freedom I laugh loudly whenever I'm happy I can live freely, easily and happily I'm most easily recognizable as an Ah Beng Some foreigners will ask me, if I really tattooed &quot;cabbage&quot; on my neck I'll then explain to them the story behind it I tattooed this &quot;cabbage&quot; ( baicai )... because of my son My wife's surname is Bai so our son is a &quot; baicai &quot; (cabbage) I'm Cindy Peck I'm Jason's wife We met through social media I accompanied a good friend of mine... to see a guy whom she likes... take part in a boxing competition Before Jason learnt his culinary skills, he was a professional boxer He took part in many competitions The boxing arena... not only allowed him to flaunt his skills, but it was where he met his wife as well I added him on social media He would leave a comment We then started chatting with each other I think that he's a very mischievous guy He says whatever is on his mind That's what I admire a lot about him... because I prefer guys Whenever I talked to him, he gave me advice that made a lot of sense, so I felt that he's a very reliable guy We then got together eventually I got into the youth team I've been to Indonesia, Taiwan I would travel to Penang every year... because there's I represented Singapore in the tournament... for six to seven years I have injuries all over my body My nose wasn't this big before It's because... I think that the bones Well, not shattered, The boxing arena and life are the same You're constantly faced with challenges... that puts your willpower The injuries resulting from boxing Instead, it was the challenges that forced him to think before he acted When I was boxing, I brought home How can I support my family with that? It was impossible, I gave it up because I love my wife I was about to get married Jason gave up on boxing To survive, he had to find another livelihood I'm not good at studying You can't earn much How do I support myself then? I thought a lot about it I've known how to cook since I was a kid Cooking wasn't my first choice It was just a means of survival for me My parents were often out working so I had to learn how to cook I started learning how to cook My parents are hawkers, so I've always felt that if you're self-employed or cook for a living I went back to and decided to become a hawker When I told my parents about this decision, They said I didn't have money or experience I suggested that I study for it They agreed I went to learn French cuisine After I completed that, which took me around two years, I so-called &quot;graduated&quot; I graduated After graduating from culinary school, Jason immediately opened his own hawker stall He named his stall after his nickname, This was my very first stall I wouldn't say that I... I guess I started from scratch This was my very first stall I was here for three years I had my stall at 23 years old UNESCO happened to promote I was the youngest hawker so many media outlets approached me I had between 80 to Slowly, although I wasn't that famous, I became rather well-known At a young age, Jason became a hawker which caught the attention He started to gain some fame However, his parents I'm Loo Bee Noi I wasn't really supportive of his decision... because we're hawkers ourselves... and we know that it's extremely tough The working hours are very long Initially, I didn't want my children because we became hawkers However, he insisted that I couldn't convince him otherwise, so I chose to support him The hawker stall that Jason operated did fairly well for three years However, the outbreak severely affected his business, as well as the income of many families It reminded Jason... of how his family was affected... by the Asian financial crisis in 1997 Therefore, it inspired him to families in need When the pandemic happened, I decided that... I wanted to give free food to everyone My father was affected He suffered greatly without a job He didn't tell me what happened As you know, and my father had... Fast food was considered but I still wanted it every day... and my father bought it for me every day Parents are really amazing For me, during the pandemic, I didn't want the same thing So, I promised that... whoever wants food can just tell me... and I'll deliver it to their door I didn't want anybody His act of kindness won him... the President's Volunteerism Above this honour, he was more gratified that... his parents were proud of him My son... is someone who has a very kind heart I was supportive I told him that We were supportive of him I only found out that when he received it My son is quite impressive! My father and I went to and he told this staff that... I'm his son and that I'm a COVID-19 hero I was very embarrassed Since I was young, teachers always complained to my mother... that I was very talkative This was the first time that So, my proudest moment but that I made my parents proud of me That was my proudest moment He was surely happy and excited... to bring glory to his family However, that was the start Thanks, Nicolette, for introducing us... to this person who needs help... for the rest of the Circuit Breaker period During the pandemic, the initiative to deliver free meals saw a total of 25,000 meals given out Many families received a temporary aid However, this act of kindness... depleted all the money he earned... from his three years working as a hawker At the time, money was something I could easily earn I didn't see it as something too important I used my own money I thought that COVID-19 would be like SARS It'll just be a few months Who knew that the pandemic I spent all of the money I wiped out my savings Although he was left penniless, Jason got by by living frugally... and with his wife's financial support He took advantage... of the lower rental prices and opened a restaurant with his friend He thought that opening a restaurant... could help him support his family However, the stress left him overwhelmed Besides cooking, he had to be in charge After pushing himself for a long time, he eventually broke down... and couldn't continue any longer Eventually, his health was compromised I continued working with... a stomach flu, a broken leg... and a broken nose I continued working I would still work for at least 10 hours I was severely overwhelmed with work... and not having enough time I didn't sleep for two days I didn't sleep at all for two whole days I couldn't fall asleep at night My mind kept thinking about work Despite the physical and mental anguish he remained silent about it Money wasn't the primary source The most stressful part was that... I had no one to confide in Perhaps, I did, but I didn't know who I could trust I started to... wallow in alcohol When you're depressed, When he came home, he would open the door very loudly He would also speak very loudly I was very afraid that He vomited all over the house It caused me to break down Before we got married, When he came home one day, he vomited all over himself I... cleaned him up... and called his parents It's really strange I never knew He's the kind who puts on a brave front I felt like... that was the end of our marriage This incident revealed that... Jason had been trying from his family These factors had been... slowly eroding his mental health Something is wrong with me I was going through a very hard time I had a disagreement with my partner Everything was overwhelming I had to take care of the kitchen, the front of the house I had to take care of everything I was working for 16 hours I had to squeeze out another six hours I was exhausted and depressed from working At the time, I was miserable I was beyond miserable I was very tired of living Every morning, I would wake up... and wonder what's the purpose He told me that he had suicidal thoughts However... I was worried for him at the time I was very afraid of losing him My first suicide attempt My wife was pregnant then A normal person and contemplate whether to jump down My second suicide attempt... was when I wanted to get hit by a car There were many vehicles When you're very depressed, It was a perfect ending for me It was until the third attempt... where I was already standing My son... Papa! Papa! His rash decision to attempt suicide ended abruptly Papa! Jason, who had been chose to face it alone (He had attempted to commit suicide) Really? I really didn't know I failed as a mother, didn't I? It breaks my heart to hear that Papa! Papa! I really didn't know about this I feel that... it was all my fault I think I have a huge issue because I never communicate I've been with my wife... for more than a decade already I only tell her the good things, I realized that... I really do need help After being assessed by a psychologist, Jason was diagnosed I'm Rachel Koh, He's very open to sharing his experiences... and the stresses that However, whenever he speaks about he tends to speak about it with almost no emotional expression He had this idea that That wall that he had I think that kept him His walls came down After a year of psychological counselling, Jason slowly began to open up... and has become willing to share... his thoughts and feelings with others Time has allowed him He gradually emerged from the darkness He started training physically... and he understood that allows him to tackle each new day He returned to his favourite boxing arena... and started coaching students He became a part-time boxing coach Nice! It's quite crispy After going through life's challenges, Jason hopes to give back to society When he has the time, he'll teach culinary skills and share his life experiences with them My advice for you guys You should really try to enjoy your life I always keep telling people but I realized the mistake is that, For me, my mistake is that I look I always neglect the present I think that kids these days I want to help kids and know who they are You just have to do it At most, you'll fail. Just try again I feel that I did something right For the first time in my life, I did something right Jason has always respected However, it was like in their relationship His father is introverted... and very reserved Every morning, I would take them to school... and then I'll be busy with work I was so busy that I had very long working hours When I reached home, they'd already be fast asleep I lived my life day by day... and barely interacted with them It was enough for me These days, That's what it's like being a father You have to work regardless of how you feel If I didn't work, Papa After becoming a father, I noticed that in that, I don't mind I think my father shares We don't mind so long as our children are happy While trying to be a good son, Jason strives to be a good father as well I just dropped off my son at school I'm rushing off to work right now After restarting his life, home has become a safe harbour for Jason His everyday life Currently, I'm working I'm cooking the same things that I cooked... when I was at Hong Lim Food Centre Although it doesn't have I'm very happy here I'm working with my brother My parents would be at the side, so the entire family is together He became the Jason whom I know I just hope that the three of us As I pick myself up one step at a time, I feel happier every day My schedule works out for me... because I can spend time I feel that (If you need help, please call...) (Samaritans of Singapore: 1767 Subtitles: CaptionCube