Aston Martin. One of the most controversial teams in F1 They seem to have the most astonishing drop 2020 and in the last two seasons. From being not just a solid midfield team in Constructors, to just dead-last with Williams Nobody could have predicted this enormous factors that are involved in this. One very important factor is the leadership Lawrence Stroll always seems to be in the Martin and bad news. But how did Lawrence Stroll manage to "kill" in direct battles? Moreover, why did the team's ex-director, the 2022 season started? These and other stories regarding the destruction revealed in this video, so stick around to It's only fair from our side to capture the Stroll became the team's boss. The original name of the team was Force India, The team's boss at that time was Vijay Mallya, his name. True, they weren't anywhere near championship team managed to rack up sponsorships in a Vijay bought out the Spyker F1 team in 2007 the national license of India. In the first year, Force India was performing points. But it's worth mentioning that in the first big and the team really struggled to keep But continuous growth is what allowed Force the years. In 2016 and 2017, the team was P4 in the constructors' One of the main reasons why the team grew Otmar Szafnauer, who joined the team in 2009. We'll get back to Otmar later in the video, he was in the uprising of Force India, a team able to climb its way up to P4. However, some dark times were ahead of Force In 2018, it was more than evident that the The reason for this wasn't the lack of knowledge The team struggled a lot when it came to money, loans. Therefore, he was forced to step away from receivership. Back then, Force India drivers were Sergio The Mexican was part of the team since 2014 Ocon, however, joined later in 2016 and was Ocon was without a seat for the whole 2019 up with Ricciardo. Now, with the team being placed under receivership, the world would try to capitalize on this One huge part of it was because the team was be used to lower the price and buy the team This is when the story of Lawrence Stroll with the leading role in Force India in 2018. Lawrence bought the team with a group of investors of 15 million pounds in debt. The team, however, changed its name. The assets were purchased by Racing Point But the name changing in F1 isn't as easy the 2018 season, the team continued to race As for 2019 and beyond, the team raced under A short background to Lawrence Stroll, the He is a Canadian billionaire businessman, His son, Lance Stroll, is also an F1 driver, for Racing Point and later Aston Martin, it to actually have the talent and know-how to Stroll has a net worth of $2.9 billion as fortune by selling his shares in Tommy Hilfiger Michael Kors's hugely successful IPO alongside So, what was the situation that Lawrence found The team boss was Otmar Szafnauer and the The duo of Perez and Ocon showed that they in the team, but the team faced one huge difficulty. The points gained prior to the summer break team was placed dead last. In the second part of the season, the team combine the points that were deducted prior P5 with 111 points. Pretty solid for a disgruntled season, right? But Lawrence had very different plans. Perez was a more experienced and a better was driving in Williams. So, similar to the Mazepin case which happened race for the team he has a major influence Lance Stroll replaced Ocon in 2019, but was In their first year together, the team scored 52 of them, and Stroll being responsible for Coming from a team that was high in the previous Point F1 finished P7 in the first full year It became evident that the team is just headed One major part of this is because Lawrence industry. He thinks engineering is just like fashion, results- but that's definitely not the case True, money is probably the most important but money alone does literally nothing if to realize your goals. You are probably thinking: Well, the team's change, so the experience is there! That is true, but it seems like Lawrence isn't people. This is why Otmar decided to leave the team to which we'll come later in this video. So, after a turbulent 2019 season, Lawrence for the 2020 season. But ever since the season started, all of as the Racing Point was called at that time. This is, of course, in a negative context, design of the Mercedes and buy every allowed As for those who weren't allowed to be bought, One could think, what an awesome solution! How come anyone didn't think of this previously? Well, F1 is considered a sport in which you of fashion and "copying trends". And, there are certain parts that you cannot These parts are in a specific category, called This has put FIA to a test, as one of the who were the direct rivals with Racing Point championship. After a thorough investigation, the team was points for copying the brake ducts Mercedes The team used the brake ducts on the 2019 "listed parts" category, and Racing Point design it by themselves. This is why they were punished, but the punishment the team managed to finish P4 yet again with Stroll with 75 points. This was the season that Perez managed to in Bahrain GP. However, Lawrence has made up his mind and when the team was to be rebranded to Aston He wanted the 4-time world champion to be seems like that has been a very wrong move what they were prior to 2021. What's even more painful for Perez is that Lawrence used a clause in Perez's contract Maybe the Mexican wasn't aware at the time, to race for Red Bull, which turned out to So why did the team rebrand to Aston Martin In 2020, a consortium of investors led by Martin for 182 million pounds. Therefore, the way for Aston Martin was kind brand is having solely a commercial role in Aston Martin F1 continued to race with Mercedes' huge blow for the team and it has caused very 2021 saw some new rules being implemented, ducts, sliding scales for aerodynamic testing, of a cost cap being the most novel things. Due to the new rules, Aston Martin had to Why is this a problem? Because Lawrence Stroll's team was always Mercedes, but with little to zero knowledge His engineers didn't really have a grasp resulted in a very poor 2021 season. Plus, Vettel was able to outperform Lance, the 34 of the Canadian. One couldn't help but wonder, "How bad the Aston Martin?" Lawrence Stroll and his team finished P7 in behind Alpha Tauri. The team's brightest results were scored finish P2 in Baku and Hungary. However, in Hungary, he was disqualified due of fuel for inspection after the race. So, the hopes for the 2022 season were very This was basically the second chance that he can lead an F1 team and that his engineers least P4 place in constructors' championship. However, the 2022 season for Aston Martin the team's principal, left for Alpine just According to him, he had lost "the responsibilities "Once it became clear over there that the that I didn't have the influence that I in, I wanted to leave. All my discussions with the seniors here at to come is because of all your experience to Alpine, and help us in our aim to win races'. So, when the fellows that are hiring you say what they're hiring you for. And they want your experience."- added Otmar, being taken away from him at the last race "It was at the last race. I was told, 'Yeah, you used to be able to anymore. Had the responsibilities not been taken away I had a contract. So, I had no reason to leave."- finished Now, it becomes more clear as to why Aston and was critically bad in 2021. It is likely that Otmar's responsibilities too, which is why the team saw such a drop and the brand-new invention of the F1 car. However, we've seen that Alpine is doing issues, and Otmar is in a much better position It's rumored that the meeting between Otmar as Otmar took the sponsorship of BTW on his The 2022 season has really shown the flaws team. From being constantly out in Q1 and rarely Saturdays, to not being able to finish in for Vettel and his experience. The team is currently standing at P9 with below them. Even HAAS, who were very bad in the previous be better than Aston Martin, who have been What were the "old habits" that were repeated Well, Lawrence tried to copy yet another design the team brought to Barcelona. The car was then labeled as the "Green Red with just a different color multiple times your resume and your team very much. However, the team embarrassed themselves by drivers in Barcelona, and they both missed Lance Stroll was even outperformed in Qualifications as the German was tested positive of COVID-19. Vettel's future in Aston Martin is also in mind when the project was "presented" According to Drive to Survive, Lawrence Stroll even though he has little to less knowledge So, what's next for Aston Martin? It seems like the team has forfeited the 2022 Deja-vu, don't you think? But there is a construction of a new factory team has started to poach people from Mercedes Stroll, however, has a very important lesson leader. Pick the right people, give them the trust see how they'll make your team much more It isn't a huge challenge to do so, considering goal shouldn't be surviving just for P7. This is the untold story of Lawrence Stroll What do you think is next for the Canadian Do you think that he needs a new set of drivers take in and he needs to give up the team to Let us know in the comments below!