Scold hard, come on, who is it? Cousin, I heard your family went bankrupt. Push this pile of junk Is this a sleeping bridge? Oh, brother. Why did you say you picked up such a money-losing product? Hey. Not to cure her. Also spent your coffin Ben is not like my daughter And he has just been promoted to the position of director of Nanxiu Group, where the richest man is located. I will follow him to enjoy the happiness That's right, tonight's family gathering is dedicated to celebrating my promotion. You also come along, can't ah Barefoot is not afraid of wearing shoes, I will accompany to the end Cut Uh-huh Real machine It's no use blaming dad I haven't found your biological parents for so many years. It's okay, Dad. Ouch, what's going on here What situation An earthquake, an earthquake. Uh-huh. You are the chairman of Nanxiu Group, the first consortium of Jiangcheng. Guarding Sunan Xiu, your own mother. I Shine, I finally found you Mom. Your dad's on his way Bye bye see the owner The shopkeeper's helicopter is ready to go. See your daughter and send the shopkeeper. Daughter Here we are. Wow. Ah, this is 5A scenic spot Tickets should be expensive. This is your home My eldest brother, you adopted for so many years. I 've got a little something for you Ah. Uh-huh Is this a little bit 17, I heard that you relatives party tonight to wear What I have prepared for you is a limited gift box with red waist and Suzhou embroidery. And this Su embroidery dress Thanks, mom. I must have this bad breath tonight. Ah, why hasn't the 17th family come yet? They women have gone everywhere to beg for food. Which have the face to come here Sorry, cousin Let you down Wow. This is 17. It's beautiful. Come on. This is my gift for everyone Han Shu Hong Man Waist Tanabata Su Embroidery Limited Gift Box This Suzhou embroidery is intangible cultural heritage This pattern is really exquisite Atmospheric and yet dignified And the product is still an upgraded version, sisters Fine lines, relaxation Dull can be used to improve Shiqi's gifts. It's really classy. Beat swollen face to make fat ah, you this dress but Fengming nine days This is the best embroidery made of gold and silver threads. It used to be worth hundreds of millions of dollars. Billions It's hundreds of millions, so expensive. expensive This is the only treasure of our Nanxiu Group's town store. How could they possibly afford Must be fake What if this is really on me? If it's true, I'll apologize to you on my knees. This is our group's app. A sweep will know true and false To sweep It's actually true How is it possible, ah 17 is great. Cousin, I'm ready for your worship. Come on ha ha If I wasn't the director of Nanxiu Group I was really cheated by you. See? Backstage shows that this dress has always been in the private collection of our chairman. Tell me how you stole it My mom gave it to me Why, where did you come from Mama ah, you keep your mouth clean Isn't this the chairman of Nanxiu Group, the richest man in Jiangcheng? How could a big man like him come here? Chairman, why are you right? 17 is my long-lost daughter, what ah Chairman, I was wrong. I announce that you have been banned by the whole industry. Oh, my daughter, don't be afraid Hey, mom, don't forget your husband is one of the dragon shop owner Jiang Shuai's men. He's our real backer. I'll call her right now Let her make the decision for our mother and daughter What? Legend has it that Megaty shocks the four seas The Lord of the Dragon Temple in all directions Even the down payment has to be lower than him. Mom. Forget it Dragon shop owner's men, we can't afford to mess with it Let's go, let's go There is no one in the world you can't afford to offend. I'm not dreaming Is the owner of the dragon shop really here? My husband is really good. The shopkeeper has come to support us. Hey, mom. 17, call dad, ah What? The Lord of Dragon Temple is your father. Your family has offended my daughter No more room Hey. Take away ah, ah elder sister elder sister Shopkeeper Shopkeeper We were wrong Shopkeeper So the richest man is my mother, eh The dragon king is my father Yeah, yeah. Mom has arranged for you to marry rich and powerful families. What famous school graduated, is a president handsome You want my destiny Satisfied? Which is this school graduates ah This is obviously the rest of my life, huh The facial features are right But I still have to go to the company to have a look. The first step in the investigation was the president of his company. The president gives you a new electricity bill, you demote it. I don't need an assistant who understands alien Xu. The president's press conference is about to open You next here hello ah ah Do you want to be my assistant? Monthly salary 50000 immediately Ugly You wait for me, Assistant Jiang Please help me pick out some girls' bags and buy them for other women. I give to cancel the engagement Uh-huh. These two are right, where are we? It's a luxury store The cheap price of your life is hanging yourself to the stall. You haven't brushed your teeth for several days. The mouth is so smelly, I don't know that the customer is God. The rich man is my god Tubai, hurry out, huh I hope I can disturb him until it is too late. Spread the full public screen noisy now that night You dare to move my people, ah Zhou Zong Why don't you come without notice You see, I ran to the door to meet you Is your store's service attitude to judge people by their appearance? Don't you know that Zhou is always our big customer of tens of millions this year? You're fired You pack my things now and fuck off Have you just taken a fancy to these two bags recently? Card swiping Hey, okay Right away. This is for a down payment. If I want to break away from him, I'll apologize. She has the right to choose the person she likes to communicate. Instead of being shackled by parents This man's three views are quite just. This is for you When my assistant, don't need to be looked down upon by anyone Ugly even spent last week's total money Hmph. I'll tell you to fuck off right now Dawn, the host you found for the press conference has diarrhea. What's going on? It seems that you are going to screw up this press conference. You did it. You're just waiting to be fired by Mr. Zhou Hmph. Don't you just host I'll do it myself. You're a clown on stage. We'll see. I'll show you what a real clown is. Is this not over? I don't have time to change my clothes I have already prepared for you Why do you use four or five of these Because today is Tanabata Why don't you start this ugly Don't dare to come, ha, ha, ha This ugly guy is actually nice to everyone I am Jiang Shixin, the host of this conference. Now let me introduce Han Shu's limited gift box to you. This will offend the customer, see what you can do This time, Han Shu Hong Man waist Tanabata Su embroidery limited gift box and Fini Su embroidery perfect collision Su embroidery knows the beauty of inheriting oriental craftsmanship with one stitch and one thread. And Han Shu passes on love and gifts with the power of ingenuity and technology. Exquisite appearance It also added the ring six double of Han Shu's special research. At the same time, it can also be mild and anti-wrinkle domestic products. Han Shu and Guoxiu Su Embroidery Carrying National Confidence and Inheritance The fire is coming out of the circle together. You're great, that must be Jiang 17, before you tried to be ugly, you were trying to seduce the president. I think it's you who has the heart You're not good enough to try to fool me. You framed your colleagues. You're fired. Don't be proud The president has an engagement with the richest daughter. I was about to break off my engagement with the richest daughter. I like 17 online. Wow, you broke I have just informed the richest man He dotes on his daughter so much You two are dead. The richest man The hold the whole you hold the ho The richest man is this ginger 17 who broke your daughter's engagement. Pack her up and do it. Yeah, arrest him Hey. Let me go, you 've got the wrong man She was 17. You're the one who broke my daughter's engagement Ginger 17 I gave it to you What big uncle go Hey, wait Uh-huh, ha-ha-ha Goodbye clown, I was wrong I was wrong about 17. You are my marriage partner, Ho Ye Have you passed the examination? Now all the good time not the summer I'm on time Did Mom and Dad see my car keys? Don't look for it. Do you like this pink key? Maserati pull wind Uh-huh, 17. You see, this one of his is a golden key. Rolls-Royce honorably chose me this Well, hey I found it I still prefer plastic key battery car freedom I went to the reunion Bye-bye Good night, Manager Song My daughter went to your hotel for a reunion today. You take good care of her No. The richest daughter is wearing an orange Hermes coat, so be sure to pay attention to it. Don't take it with you. Hum, hum, hum, ah Zhang 17 Lili, why are you as hairy as you were at school? My famous brand clothes cost 1000 yuan Sorry, Lili, why don't you wear mine first? A look is chicken soup Forget it, I'm too lazy to dispute with you orange coat Hand rich daughter I heard that Lili is a daughter of brothers and sisters. She's a daughter of brothers and brothers. You all misunderstood him Tianjin Good. That's right. I didn't want to talk about it Now that you all know, I won't pretend Yes, I am the richest daughter Can really pretend I 'd like to see how you round This is for our richest daughter. Fart chest so high level Lili, what a face Of course, ah You should take your cell phone out and take more pictures. If it weren't for my light You don't have a chance to come to such a fancy place. This place is pretty upscale, huh Just some people talk Don't pull low grade Jiang 17, don't be sour I know you came here today on a little electric donkey. Seeing that I am the richest daughter, I feel uncomfortable. But I'm telling you You need to adjust your mindset as soon as possible. After all, your poor life is going to be a lifetime. Uh-huh. That Lili. How do you live your good life? Tell us all about it. Say it out afraid to scare you My parents bought me a house in Genting Villa 50 million market value, is it Lili. I think the news said that this villa is in Wangfu Garden. How did he get his name wrong? Is Lili the gift you received? You can't be lying I am the richest daughter I have too much to remember. Don't you watch the news? My mom's giving me a fancy car show tomorrow It's not like you can only ride a little electric donkey car show. Can you open your eyes with us all tomorrow? Of course you can. Just right. Take you this poor wretch to play tube myopia Hey! Husband, aren't you a manager at the auto show? Get me some tickets Mom and Dad, why didn't you tell me about the auto show? Didn't you see those two cars before? I heard that someone dare to pretend to be your daughter. Not afraid of the auto show tomorrow, I want to hit him in the face beautifully. Lili, it looks good today Just bought clothes, eh Is that 17? Wow, Guofeng beauty It's so beautiful Wow, this is really nice Hum River 17 You're dressed like this today Is intended to steal the thunder of my richest daughter If you are really the richest daughter Millions of luxury cars at this show are yours. I don't think I have the limelight to mention one casually. Yeah. Lili took me for a ride Yes I think this sports car is good. It should be out of the question for your richest daughter to take it away. Of course, you're my husband Get that car out of here. This one is a global limited edition, and it is worth 50 million If we hit this, we can't afford to pay for it. No matter, if we don't give it to me, we will divorce. All right, just this once. Here you go. Jiang 17, don't you want to see me make a fool of myself in public? Hit the face Huh. Why didn't you respond? Wow. You're the one who made a fool of himself in public, aren't you? The key to a top luxury car like this requires your fingerprint to unlock it. How can this happen You still don't understand I am the richest daughter You're talking nonsense. There must be something wrong. Shh. Wait. It turns out that 17 is the real guardian daughter. This is seven. I was wrong, please give me a break. It's okay. It's okay. Yeah, take it. Pretending to be a daughter can also get red envelopes 17, I knew you wouldn't dispute with me 17. Pack your things quickly. We went to have lunch with Uncle Buffett. Is that a meal you are going to shoot a sky-high price Buffett? Yes Your starting price for a meal is higher than his. What can I do? This is not pit money You are the richest heir They all want to get to know you After all, it has a relationship with our family. They'll get a hundredfold return Then I won't eat I'm going to see who my food partner is. Honey, don't be late. Today we must take the opportunity to have dinner with the richest daughter. Double the price and expect the gold list. Yo Little girl, the figure is quite hot Ha ha Look at your eyes again Don't you just want to hug the thighs of us rich men dressed like this? Let's make a price. Well, hey... Take your trotters away Don't toast, don't eat cooking wine Stew you in a pressure cooker for two hours and you'll be honest. Hey. Ginger 1Cousin, why did you do anything to my husband This pig is your husband I think you are really hungry Mouth to harass me He harasses you I'm afraid you didn't stick to her Our old Zhu makes millions a year It's strange that a poor woman like you is not greedy. I am really greedy. It is estimated that only the dragon family knows how good your husband is and what he means. Longjiang pig feet rice ah you, you just want to attract my attention My people you dare to move Mr. Zhou, you are the president of Yida Group. What does he have to do with you? She's my wife You said I have such a beautiful husband to have a crush on you I'm sorry, Mr. Zhou. I didn't think she was your wife. Yida Group canceled with you Waiting for bankruptcy. What can I do now? It's okay. Husband, as long as we can take a chance to have dinner with the richest daughter. Have the opportunity to meet the richest man When the time comes, we will be able to make progress Next is the finale of the auction. A chance to have dinner with the richest daughter The starting price is 1 million. If you can get in touch with the richest daughter Wouldn't that be a step up to the sky? 1.5 million, 1.5 million, 2 million, 3 million Is it worth that much? 3 million, a 3 million Twice 10 million 10 million, 10 million 30 million, 30 million Even if you borrow money today, you have to take this opportunity. Meet the richest man daughter, 40 million 40 million 30 million, I 80 million Honey, forget it Cannot enter 0.1 billion The lady bid to 0.1 billion But I gave up the 0.1 billion, a 0.1 billion Two transactions. Let's congratulate Liu Japan's Electric Power Jiang 17 with applause After I get to know the richest daughter Just let you cry and beg me I love you This should be your last good meal Hum, mouth hard Please go to the next restaurant. The down payment will be there soon. Ha ha ha ha ha ha I really hope they know that I am the richest daughter of the face Dare not to use red spots waist to protect skin at first Uh-huh. It's better if you're sweet. Let's go. The show is about to start Husband, we will soon be able to catch the richest daughter serve This is the dish prepared for the two by the richest daughter. Please be sure to finish eating That, of course. What is this thing? Pig brain daughter, what does this mean Ha, ha, ha, of course, is to fill your brain Jiang 17, it took us 0.1 billion to have this dinner with the richest daughter. You two don't want to come over and get a piece of the action. Let's get rid of all the irrelevant people. Why don't you move Not yet, it delayed me and my daughter's dinner. Can you afford to pay? Don't you look at the posters at the auction? You come here You have a good prospect. I am he is the richest daughter Then our 0.1 billion is gone Happy birthday, sister What precious treasure are you going to give me? What is this Yiwu commodity This pendant is the logo of the helm of Nanxiu Group With it You'll be able to control the economic lifeline of the entire river city. This token is the inheritance of the Lord of Dragon Temple With it, you can command the world. Megatron Feel the whole world in my hands I'm under a lot of pressure His Lordship Wang Group President Invites Two to Saga Banquet Tomorrow I have been begging for more than half a year. 17. You are now the richest man in Jiangcheng and the owner of Dragon Store. Take this opportunity to show up at the party. All right. If you want to wear a crown, you must be heavy. Dear. This time you not only invited the richest man There's also a dragon shop owner to help out. It's too proud Jiang 17 is really you My old classmate, this is a rich area. The bus can't get there. You came on foot Uh-huh. Riding a pig. Next time it's your turn, you heard you found your biological parents. But poor parents must be poor too. Not like I married a rich husband We're here in a Ferrari Next to Rolls-Royce, okay Miss, you forgot your bag. Rolls Royce River 17 You're really good. Found such a rich godfather It's also a woman like you who doesn't have a man to ask. Also can only stick stick old man Uncle, can you control how your daughter speaks? This is my husband It turns out that you are the one who helped the old man, ha, ha, ha We're going to the family party. The richest man in Jiangcheng and the owner of the dragon shop will be there. Don't collide, the two big men don't know how to die. I 'd like to see who's looking to die. Han Shu Hong Man Waist Tanabata Su Embroidery Limited Gift Box This organizer is quite tasteful. Put it down, you really don't know how to come to this place to run wild. This gift box is the Tanabata gift of this party. Only when it is available can it be taken away. I'm sorry. I have two, er, hey hey You're amazing. Jiang 17 put two old men in one place, right Poor people like you do anything to get ahead. I don't have to be on top Because I was already on the reign I don't care about poor people like you. What about you? Go back to where you're supposed to be Two big men are coming soon Good. Then I'll go where I'm supposed to be right now This woman who ah How dare you sit here and get down ginger 17 This position is made by Yan Jun's head table hand. Only the person with the highest status in the whole river city is qualified to sit here. How do you know I'm not the one with the highest status Are you crazy? Who do you think you are Is Jiang's richest man That's right. Henan's richest man, you are really poor and crazy Don't hurry to take this crazy woman out, don't know me Then you should know this This is a sign of the richest man in the river. He is the richest man The richest man is sorry What's wrong with you, you little eyeless thing? Why did you hit me Even if he is the richest man so what The owner of the dragon shop hasn't arrived yet. It's not his turn to sit in this position. That's the big man with great power. In this case, then I can't come down Because this position is tailor-made for me You mean you can still be the master of this spiritual temple Jiuye arrived Now you're finished. The second in command of the Dragon Hall of Jiang 17 came in September. Whether you're the owner of the Dragon Store or not, we'll see right away. You are Lao Jiu. Shut up. How dare you be so rude to Master Jiu? Nine ye Jiang 17 claimed to be the master of dragon temple You know him Ah. I 've never met such a man before. He's so bold to pretend to be a shopkeeper. Have you revealed yourself? What about money? Dare to risk the owner of the dragon store Today is the day you die, somebody Take it down, don't know me Do you know this? The magistrate's board is like the Dragon Hall, see the Lord of the Hall. Hey, you kneel Alas, alas, alas, alas, alas, I am not the Dragon King Come on, come on, get up Get up, get up, get up You two get down on your knees The day is cold, let Wang's group go bankrupt