Transcriber: Nadine Hennig When I was growing up, there was this song and it went like this, &quot;Tracy and so and so, first comes love, then comes marriage, then comes baby in a baby carriage.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;OK, that's it! That's how you do life. Love, marriage, baby carriage. OK, got it! (Laughter) Then I grew up, and this is (Laughter) Slightly more complicated, right? Love, marriage, divorce, co-parenting, another marriage, you got the picture. (Laughter) (Applause) So if you're good at math and/or is that I've been married three times. Yep, three, and divorced. What that is supposed to mean is And that is one way Because what I think really happened No, it's not that I didn't-- My first two husbands were amazing men who are now married (Laughter) And my third husband, well, So, all is well that ends well, right? After the collapse of I realized that I've been marrying except the one person in order to have a great relationship and that once I married that person, all of my relationships would be The so-called failures, actually. Since we're talking today I'm going to talk about What I've found through a lot of trial to be the thing that has and that is this idea So what does it mean to marry yourself? It's a big idea. It is as big as marriage itself it would be that you enter and then you put a ring on it. (Laughter) In other words, And then you build to the point where you realize that there is no man, woman, job, that is going to make you more whole And this changes your life. By now, I'm sure at least why you should be listening talk about marriage? (Laughter) Even to herself. And I understand that. Here's what I have to say about that: what I've learned and my experience is that the places where you have become the places where you if you do your inner work. I kind of want to say that again: the places where you have are the places where you So let me tell you a little bit myself. I am from Minneapolis. Wooh! (Laughter) My mom was a prostitute and an alcoholic. She put me in foster care My dad was a criminal; he was a drug dealer and a pimp - actually, they both had hearts of gold - and he spent more or less He just got out of prison which was 20 years. Until the age of nine, I was probably The thing you need to know - there are a lot of details, obviously - is that I came out of that childhood The way I was going to do that That was the way I was going So I got married the first time We got married a couple He was a really good guy I mean, it was like, You know, I was thrilled. I was like, &quot;I have a family. And then after five years I left him. Then ten years later, I got married again who is the father of my We still have a wonderful relationship. But after four years I left him, too. And I am not proud to say that I did that, you have to get sometimes about what it is that you've done. So I'm not proud of that. Then eight years later, and I was like, &quot;OK, this feels right!&quot; Let me tell you what felt right a guy who started to date essentially, he started dating OK, I mean, it would be funny, You have to have a sense of... So, here I am looking with a terrible track record and I'm like, &quot;I'm supposed to marry her? This is the woman And the answer is yes. Because here is the deal: the thing about marrying yourself You're not just going to date You are going to do this You are going to take vows. So here are the vows. Number 1: you are going to marry yourself This means you are going You don't say to yourself, &quot;When you get then I will marry you.&quot; You don't say, &quot;When you lose And you don't say, &quot;If you hadn't but since you did, When you marry yourself, exactly where you are. And paradoxically, I found is the only way to get where I am going. Number 2: you are going to marry yourself What this means is that most of us I mean, sure, I am having I love me. (Laughter) That's not what I am talking about. I'm talking about for worse, Maybe you don't own a home, maybe you didn't graduate from college, Maybe it hasn't turned out-- maybe you watch too much reality TV, whatever it is, it doesn't matter anymore. Because when you marry yourself, Third, you marry yourself What this means is that you forgive A mistake isn't actually a failure and unless you don't grow. There is a saying, &quot;You ask for patience, (Laughter) What that means is that life it gives you the people, that allow you to develop And the thing is if you don't get it life will give it to you again. (Laughter) Because life is very generous that way. It's like I didn't get it the first time, and I didn't get it the second time, So inside that terrible experience I learned something What I learned is how to sit and how to hold my own hand, and how to comfort myself. What I learned is that I am Last but not least, you marry yourself-- when you marry yourself, What does it mean to have and to hold? Well, I think it means the way you want I had always been going I felt like I was kind of half a person, I went into my relationships hoping to solve this feeling that I was not whole The truth was that I wasn't ever going to feel whole So this business of marrying yourself your business, family relationships, Because when you marry yourself, you become able to love You become able to love other people the same way you're already And of course, this is So when I married myself, and I realized I started seeing it as my job to basically just light up That's my new job. Because I don't need anything, So when I take meetings, it's all about how can I help When I'm in my social communities, it is like what can I bring When I go on dates, it is like how can I just discover which, of course, brings me a full circle. Because people always asked me (Laughter) You know, the answer is, Aren't we all? So this is where I am right now. About three months ago, About 30 minutes into the date, not to whether he liked me, I noticed that I was light, happy, joking. As I reflected on the date afterwards, Look, this is how committed I am not even on this date I am more interested in how I feel not because I am selfish, I am ever going to have is the one that I am just going to have it with them now. So it turned out he liked me, It's cool and amazing, so slow down! (Laughter) The thing is that I am not trying and, God forbid, a baby carriage. I am only here to I am not dying to hear the words, Because even though - and very powerful to a person like me - I don't need them to hear it from him because I have already The way I see it is like I took myself or maybe to the bottom of the ocean, and I got down on one knee, And now I am married to the one person myself. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)