The Mona Lisa by Leonardo da Vinci Despite its legendary status, few are aware and was considered lost for two years. It was a sensational thing Many people have forgotten that In 1911, an unknown intruder and left with one The museum opened, and people started noticing A frantic effort was made but the police had few leads to go on. Newspapers around the world from wealthy industrialists At the time, it was all over the place, It wouldn't have been stolen but clearly, that got worldwide coverage. Front page of newspapers. It really captured people's imagination of having something completely priceless Little did they know that it was hidden in a small apartment If people throughout the world, were to say they would say the Mona Lisa. It's theft is probably It's a very Thomas Crown Affair thing, The story of how the Mona Lisa is just one of the many mysteries Even though Leonardo da Vinci many of his works and have had to survive The search continues to this day to find all of the lost works The Mona Lisa has always been Ever since the day in Florence in around 1503, it's generated quite a reputation. It was a very important painting and it was very influential. It was admired and particularly was the technique into something a little more mysterious What Leonardo is incredibly good at, is suggesting What he's immensely interested in He called them windows of the soul. When Leonardo was painting it, artists, his contemporaries, because it was so new and unique It proved to be especially someone like Raphael, who modeled A similar look, and also had the same positioning Leonardo became so attached that he was unable to part with it There's a lot of discussion on why during his lifetime. I don't think anyone Some people think and that he took it with him because he was a very slow, Plus, he got distracted He was, as usual, It took about four years or maybe longer. Through distraction and different travels, he took it with him For over a century, the Mona Lisa held in the Louvre in Paris, but in 1911 In the early 1900s, weren't so worried about things like theft That's one reason why the paintings They were always hung loosely so that they could be removed There was also a lot of vandalism People unhappy with their lives would protest and desecrate some of the paintings. People would stab paintings The Louvre decided so they wanted to put A lot of people were up in arms but the Louvre saw no other way Vincenzo Peruggia was one of the five men sent to the Louvre who had to cut and clean the glass. Vincenzo Peruggia had hatched a plan and on the 21st of August 1911, Vincenzo Peruggia or one of these suave, that you see in the films. He was an immigrant workman. He was born in a town and he would emigrate every year to France Peruggia was a painter decorator. He was the oldest son. He had three brothers, Work was hard to come by in Italy and he was the oldest who went out This was not the first time that the Mona Lisa None other than Napoleon Bonaparte had once had the painting into one of his bedrooms and it was this connection with Napoleon Vincenzo Peruggia seemed He looted lots of things from Italy, and indeed the Leonardo manuscripts still in France, are a Napoleonic loot. One day Peruggia when he picked up a book and he saw this great caravan that were being brought to France He came to think that all the Italian artwork in the Louvre He was not thinking that Francis I had bought this years ago but that it was stolen property. He seems to have believed that. Peruggia really thought that it was Napoleon as he had stolen many other paintings, so it was a patriotic act. He was returning the painting He got the idea that he was going to take and if he did he'd be a hero, and maybe the government He believed that he was going Vincenzo Peruggia had stolen but it was not until Tuesday When word got out, it would cause but especially on the streets of Paris. With one it was the talk of the town, On Tuesday, when the painting disappeared and found the empty frame, The newspapers break the story and this news rocks Paris. It goes all around the world. This was when newspapers Millions of copies and this was a front-page news story. Everyone loves the story It's incredibly exciting. I think everyone has that feeling I remember being a child if you pulled a painting off the wall. Everyone is fascinated by it and I think even in 1911, There were police everywhere. In the grand discussion a lot of people pointed their fingers because at the time, Americans were very much and J.P. Morgan He was, if not the wealthiest man and he was spending a lot of that wealth on bringing to America There were certain camps that had their own theories The prefect of Paris police, was very famous at the time. Some newspapers called him His theory was that the painting who was going to blackmail the Louvre or, he thought, With World War I just around the corner, it was no surprise that Germany was seen There were other conspiracy theories. Some people thought that the Germans, sent an agent in to steal to provoke war. Everybody was trying of where the painting was. However, only one man in the world Vincenzo Peruggia. While he kept the painting all sorts of people The finger was even pointed at a young artist Pablo Picasso. He soon found himself in the firing line. Vincenzo Peruggia had successfully thanks to some weak security at the Louvre However, Peruggia had been misinformed His audacious plan but he was incorrect in his belief that Napoleon Its rightful home was not in Italy but in the Louvre in Paris, Leonardo himself had spent in the employment Having started Leonardo was never and 13 years later took it with him It is said that King Francis What is known for certain is that the king purchased the Mona Lisa and it was placed During the French Revolution, it found itself and was placed in the Louvre. However, that didn't stop Napoleon The Mona Lisa did hang It was, after that, returned to the Louvre to what became then the Louvre when the monarchy was restored. However, when the Mona Lisa it wasn't exactly the center of attention, as this painting Vincenzo Peruggia was stuck and no plans for what to do with it. While he tried to lay low, the rest of Paris remained captivated by the theft This was a front-page news story, and it lasted not for hours, and ultimately for two and a half years, this was still in the paper It wouldn't have been stolen That got worldwide coverage, there were photographs People queued up and look at the pegs so it became much more famous at the time. Even Kafka went to go It was almost a tourist attraction I'm sure that upped the profile. At the end of the day, it's da Vinci. Eventually the Parisians, There was a series &quot;Where is the Mona Lisa today?&quot; On one she's in London In another, Her image started appearing The Mona Lisa became A lot of people say that made the Mona Lisa The police tried desperately and one of those accused who had recently Both he and his close friend fell under suspicion, especially since that the Louvre Apollinaire's real name He was of Polish descent, He made his name in Paris Pablo Picasso was just starting in the art world. He was an artist and that had been formative at the beginning of his fame He had done Demoiselles but he was becoming Apollinaire and Picasso were accused partly because Picasso had been found that had been stolen from the Louvre. I didn't know you still had them. The finger was pointed in inverted commas, pieces of work It was an obvious implication of Picasso. Pablo, what are you doing? Your friend is a liar. The police wanted to know how Picasso in his possession. Picasso had bought them, He is jealous. I never bought the statues. I've never seen the statues. He bought them from this man The man happened to be -We'll throw them in the river. No one will know they were here. -Just calm down. You introduced us. They'll have me deported for this, Picasso used these two Iberian statues for one Les de Moselle d'Avignon. Picasso used these as inspiration. In fact, he still had these statues When the news broke, This is ridiculous. Just give me a moment. We should just get rid of them now. We'll be seen. Pablo, we just have to wait. It'll be dark soon. Come on. You're winning. I don't see why Picasso and Apollinaire were so spooked that Apollinaire He was arrested. Picasso was brought in for questioning, Apollinaire sat in jail for eight days. Police thought that there was behind the theft of the Mona Lisa. He was ultimately released Apollinaire had declared the Louvre should be burned. I suppose the two things joined in, However, they were released It wasn't his home, To be seen as stealing pieces of work Apollinaire was so damaged by the fact that his loyalty that he volunteered to fight in the war, and he became injured Therefore, because of the theft and the scandalous accusation the theft of the Mona Lisa, you could say, killed Apollinaire. While Picasso and Apollinaire the real culprit, and made an attempt to sell the painting. He contacted Alfredo Geri, claiming he wanted Alfredo Geri He was a well-known dealer at the time, He had placed ads in a lot of newspapers One of the ads he placed that Peruggia read in Paris. He wrote him a letter. He said, &quot;and it is my fond wish &quot;where I hope it will remain He chose to sign his letter Geri gets this letter &quot;All right, this is a joke.&quot; &quot;This is crazy, but then he has second thoughts. It came this morning. What Geri does is go see Giovanni Poggi. Poggi is the director Florence's biggest museum. If Peruggia wants to return he's got to have the permission of Poggi. Another copy, I would imagine. Write back. Inform him you wish Let's bring Leonardo back to Florence. The Mona Lisa Peruggia would take the painting to meet Alfredo Geri and Giovanni Poggi, looking for a handsome reward Vincenzo Peruggia leaving the Paris police baffled. He had kept the painting hidden unsure of his next move. During this time, and people began However, in 1913, when he attempted He had arranged to meet Both he and the director didn't know what to expect. Come in. Signore Geri. Leonardo? Yes. You have the object. She's safe. Don't worry. Can we see it? They all walk over to the hotel. They climb the stairs to Peruggia's room. They're both looking at each other, &quot;What have we gotten into?&quot; &quot;This guy is staying &quot;He doesn't look &quot;but we're here.&quot; They go into the room He starts taking His mandolin, He removes the false bottom and under there There. Poggi's thinking, He calmly tells Peruggia, &quot;I've got to inspect this &quot;Can we take it back to the museum?&quot; Peruggia says yes. They go back to the Uffizi, and Poggi brings out some big photographs I simply did what any I brought her home. You do expect to be paid, If the government it would be wrong of me to refuse. I want 500,000 lire. It's a 400-year-old painting at this time and the varnish on the painting Sure, you can forge the Mona Lisa, but there's no way each one of those thousands If it's real. It's real. There are marks on this It's real. Poggi is comparing the photograph and he thinks that it's legitimate. They tell Peruggia to go back to his hotel, Satisfied they had the real thing, and Vincenzo Peruggia was arrested The news of the recovery the news of its recovery His apartment in Paris, was extensively searched by the police. Amazingly, and became a hero I've looked at the testimony in court and I think You wouldn't say in very logical sequences. I think that probably the initial motive he always claimed that he thought I think Peruggia came up with this nonsense not realizing that there had been It so happened that the king and bought it from him. I think people Da Vinci is one of the most iconic artists To be taken by an Italian and returned seizing it to return it I think is probably that they got behind Peruggia was celebrated somewhat. In Florence, people sent money to Peruggia. In jail, they sent gifts to him. People offered to pay his bail. In some ways, he was a hero that way. Eventually, all that wore off. He was arrested in December 1913. He was put on trial in June 1914. They were perilously close to World War I. People had other things in mind other than the trial The simple truth is that idiotic if you're the criminal, and they're a pain in the backside because they just go on and on and on. They cost money. It's worse for the criminals themselves, Before the Mona Lisa it was sent on a tour of Italy. Since then, its only other foreign visits where it was presented One of Washington's is at the National Gallery of Art President and Mrs. Kennedy, with French Cultural Minister pay homage to the first the Leonardo da Vinci painting for 400 years. When it went to New York, it had a kind of royal reception Mr. Minister, we in the United States are grateful for this loan from the leading The Mona Lisa in Moscow, and Tokyo, in 1963, when the French government where she was displayed and 1913 when Vincenzo Peruggia It was allowed out for a short time securely for a long time, and it's only allowed out once a year Rest assured, security now is a lot tighter She hasn't been out that much, and one of those times You can't justify it. You can't say but the outcome was good things. Museums know now, put a little tag on the wall that says Security was bolstered. It opened up a whole new world of what a painting There are lots of stories It seems impossible that one should do it Another painting the Madonna of the Yarnwinder that was stolen in Scotland. The Madonna of the Yarnwinder The painting was hanging when a gang of four men The police contacted me and said, &quot;Let's talk about the picture &quot;How do we tell it's Leonardo?&quot; I was able to tell the police, &quot;I've got good forensic evidence &quot;If they attempted &quot;and give you back the replica, and they rather liked that. As the months turned into years, it was feared to have been lost The Duke asked me to get the picture back, I explained my reasons to him The Strathclyde Police to recover the painting. The important thing and they got it back. The painting was recovered in 2007 from thieves as part of other illegal operations. I got a call from the police saying, &quot;There's been developments. After a bit, I went up to Edinburgh and the picture was then of the National Galleries You could walk into the room and I could say, but we could reconstruct Again, it helped which wasn't an art historian &quot;Yes, that's obviously Leonardo.&quot; It was really hard evidence Why do people steal famous works of art We know that there are reasons that have to do with using them for money laundering, It's less to do with a wealthy individual some sort of obsession and it's probably except for the case of Peruggia, The story of Vincenzo Peruggia's theft is only one of the mysterious events and all of Leonardo's works. It's been a battle to try and hunt down the very few paintings many of which went missing In fact, in just the last few years, two previously unknown works were unveiled The Mona Lisa was lost for two years Many other of Leonardo's paintings have gone missing In fact, in just the last few years, two previously Based at Oxford University, the leading international authority led the team that authenticated to appear in over a century, La Bella Principessa. I get sent new Leonardos and most of them are pretty absurd. You get some things &quot;That's the school of Leonardo, This came through and I thought It's very pretty, but you always say, &quot;Don't believe it.&quot; You go in or you should go in With Leonardo, it's very difficult because he tackled almost It seems every painting, he thought it through, he certainly thought about new ways There was an added layer of intrigue a medium that is not part The fact it was on vellum cuts both ways. We know that Leonardo and it's very difficult Equally, if you were doing something a deliberate deception, you wouldn't choose that medium I did know that Leonardo so it wasn't a total surprise. Only a handful of paintings to be by Leonardo da Vinci's hand. Scholars argue over the attribution and La Bella Principessa is no different. If we look at Leonardo's work, it's a surprise that only You think the Mona Lisa has, and so on. However, they all have breaks that is the history of who owned them. Each one comes out Amazingly, right after yet another work has been attributed After its attribution, We had drawings We had masses of copies and the picture It's painted on a walnut panel, It is tented, and somebody simply and they shaved off the ridges Somebody completely over-painted it. Looking back now, you can see areas that say Overall, I described it It's simply an unattractive thing. Once all the over paint was stripped off, you could see that you've got and that absolutely shouts Leonardo. It's been restored. That's to say, the missing areas Just like the Salvator Mundi, that have had include the Lady with an Ermine, the Benois Madonna, There may be yet another the Battle of Anghiari. I've always been fascinated with Leonardo. Mostly because of not only but his great failures. One of his great failures this massive mural of one of the battles that he had painted. However, because he used a new technique, the paint wasn't adhering to the walls. He was notorious so the fresco painting requires a specific keying Leonardo tried to dry the paint with fire at the base but instead of drying it, That technique was haphazard. He was experimental, He was a scientist as well as an artist. We still have the preparatory studies that Leonardo da Vinci as well as a copy However, the original remains elusive. Some people think behind another painting a painting done by Vasari. The Battle of Anghiari's search since the late 1970s At one point a bit of plaster and disclosed nothing. Maurizio Seracini's search and Florentine politics in the art world The Battle of Anghiari was painted We have documentation for that. We know that Leonardo started it However, There are clues there's Leonardo's masterpiece. I think one of the flags &quot;Seek and ye shall find.&quot; This Italian art historian had been drilling holes to put cameras in, and he's seen things behind there that he thinks are paint If it is in a space this wall which Leonardo painted, and there's the wall I'm not convinced Various searches have not led to any results yet. I think it's unlikely, even though a lot of people I hope they find the Battle of Anghiari It'd be the largest Leonardo ever found. The struggle continues to see While that painting people continue to claim that new works There has even been a claim that an earlier version There was a huge, trumpeted announcement of the discovery not very pretty on canvas, and it was owned It's known as the Isleworth Mona Lisa, which I don't want but it's not the most probable place It was accompanied by this big book with gold-edged, very fat, I see quite a lot of Leonardo attributions It's almost as if and you have enough scientific analysis, that somehow proves something. I think you can demonstrate fairly clearly it belongs to one I'd be interested but not under the coercion that it has to be In 2012, another Mona Lisa story broke, when a copy of the painting was discovered It was displayed at the Louvre and is thought to be and therefore the earliest known Leonardo da Vinci and his masterpieces the Leonardeschi. These copies are still being unearthed, but could any more lost works As far as other discoveries you can't rule that out. It's not very usual that they are found. It's quite slow finding Leonardos, even though lots of people It's wonderful that in recent times He didn't do that much work, The last painting was early 20th century. That's the Benois Madonna in the Hermitage in Russia. I'm working on an international edition of the Leonardo manuscript Remarkably, if you look at the thousands you still discover new things. While more works by Leonardo da Vinci no recovery could be quite as remarkable as the story of Vincenzo Peruggia The painting continues This is a famous painting. It's a mystery and an icon. It's one of the few things on Earth For that, she's celebrated and in demand. I think there is something There is that smile and there is something about stealing that painting It's the mystery. The act of stealing the painting made the painting The theft remains a very dramatic story, but it's one of many stories many legends, and many true stories. She's still in the news. Every couple of weeks they're digging up the body There's another theory, &quot;The copy of the Mona Lisa &quot;and if you put them together, This is 500 years later and she's still getting press.