- Welcome to the Huberman Lab podcast, where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. Today I have the pleasure of Dr. Lembke is a psychiatrist the Addiction Medicine at Stanford University School of Medicine. She's a psychiatrist who treats patients struggling with addiction. She has successfully treated drug addiction, alcohol addiction, and behavioral addictions, such as gambling and sex addiction, as well as other types of addiction. In fact, during our discussion, I learned that there are and substances to which and that there is a common of all those addictions. I also learned that there is a common path to the treatment and recovery from essentially all addictions. Dr. Lembke explained that to me and explained how to think our own addictions, as well as the addictions of other people who are struggling to get and stay sober from their addictions. In addition to treating patients, Dr. Lembke is an author the 2020 Netflix documentary, I'm excited to tell you that called &quot;Dopamine Nation, Finding Balance in the Age of Indulgence&quot;. The book comes out August 24th and is an absolutely and ways to treat various I've read the book cover to cover, and all I'll tell you is that and throughout, you are going The stories about her patients It brings forward the and the incredible, I think that people fight in order of various kinds. And all of that is woven through in ways that make it very whether or not you have a I can't recommend it highly enough. So again, the book is &quot;Dopamine Nation, Finding Balance it comes out August And you can pre-order that We will provide a link to Before we begin, I just want to mention that from my teaching and It is however part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer and science-related tools In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is ROKA. ROKA make sunglasses and eyeglasses that are of the absolute utmost quality. Founded by two All-American everything about the that ROKA makes was designed First of all, they're very lightweight. You don't even really notice Second of all, even if you get In fact, they were or around the house, but also So you can move seamlessly without having to change your In addition, the lenses are designed with the science of the I've spent my career working on the science of the visual system, and I can tell you that it's that allows you to see whether or not you're in bright sunshine and then move into shadows. But the ROKA glasses allow you to do that. You always see things Another terrific thing about is the aesthetic. A lot of so-called performance they're not really built and they kind of make With ROKA, they have a to choose from, but all that you could wear out or when engaging in physical activity. If you'd like to try ROKA that's R-O-K-A dot com, and enter the code Huberman at checkout. And if you do that, you'll Today's podcast is also InsideTracker is a that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and reach your health goals. I'm a big believer in getting And I've been doing that for the simple reason that that impact your immediate can only be analyzed in detail And now with the advent you can get further insight into what's going on beneath The problem with a lot of is you get numbers back, you get the levels back of various things and you find out if certain or right on target, but there are no directives in the direction that you With InsideTracker, they have a dashboard that makes all of that very easy, and that dashboard takes your numbers and can help direct you towards particular lifestyle factors, supplementation, et cetera, that can help you bring that are right for you. If you'd like to try insidetracker.com/huberman. And if you do that, you'll get 25% off any of InsideTracker's plans. Just use the code Huberman at checkout. Today's episode is also Headspace is a meditation 25 published peer review studies and has over 600,000 5-star reviews. I've been meditating for a very long time. I'm 45-years-old now, almost 46, and I started meditating when The problem, however, is keeping I've experienced this myself. I've had periods of time and then periods of time fall off the rails and I'm There's now tons of evidence, evidence from psychology, evidence from areas of and the immune system, when done regularly, is extremely beneficial for and things like focus and creativity. However, you have to do and so if you're not doing it regularly, that's a serious problem. And if you are doing it regularly, great. With Headspace, I find that I can stick to a meditation In fact, that's why I started using it and that's why I continue to use it. I try and get a meditation but sometimes that requires that it be a brief meditation practice. With Headspace, they have a huge range of different meditations and so that's really helpful these powerful meditation practices. If you want to try Headspace you can go to headspace.com/specialoffer. And if you do that, you'll get a free one month trial with Headspace's full This is the best deal Basically you get access completely free, for a one month trial. So if you'd like to try that, go to headspace.com/specialoffer. And now for my discussion All right, great to have you here. - Thank you for having me, - Yeah, I have a lot of questions for you. I, and many listeners of this podcast, are obsessed with dopamine, how does it work? We all hear that dopamine is this molecule associated with pleasure. I think the term dopamine hits, like I'm getting a dopamine or from likes or from is now commonly heard. What is dopamine, and what are maybe some that most people don't know? And probably that I don't know either. - So dopamine is a neurotransmitter, and neurotransmitters are those molecules that bridge the gap between two neurons. So they essentially allow one neuron, the pre-synaptic neuron, to communicate with the Dopamine is intimately associated with the experience of reward, which I think is really interesting, because movement and If you think about, you had to move in order or the meat or whatever it was. And even in the most primitive organisms, dopamine is released when food For example, C elegans, So dopamine is this really powerful, important molecule in the brain that helps us experience pleasure. It's not the only neurotransmitter but it's a really, really important one. And if you want to think about something that most people don't which I think is really interesting, is that we are always releasing dopamine at a kind of tonic baseline rate. And it's really the rather than like hits that make a difference. So when we experience pleasure, our dopamine release goes above baseline, and likewise dopamine can go and then we experience a kind of pain. - Interesting. So is it fair to say that one's how frequently we are releasing dopamine, in the absence of some, I don't know, drug or food or experience, is that associated with their kind of baseline of - There is evidence that shows may indeed have lower So that's a really reasonable thought, and there is some evidence to The other thing that we know, and this is really kind is that if we expose ourselves chronically to substances or behaviors that repeatedly release in our brains reward pathway, that we can change our tonic baseline and actually lower it over time, as our brain tries to compensate which is more really than we - Interesting and is, is it the case that our are set by our genetics, by our heredity? - Well I think, you know, you know, the early stages certainly that is true. You're kind of, you know, your baseline level. But obviously your experiences on where your dopamine level - So if somebody's disposition is one of constant excitement and I think about the kind of do you want to check out and they're like &quot;Yeah, that'd be great!&quot; And other people are a little Like my bulldog Costello. Very, very stable, low levels of dopamine with big inflections in his case. Do you think that's set and obviously nature and is dopamine at the core - I don't really think we but I will say that people different temperaments, and their ability to experience joy. And, you know, we've known and we describe that One of the ways that we is to use psychiatric nomenclature. Like this person has a dysthymic this person has chronic In terms of looking specifically at who's vulnerable to addiction, that's an interesting sort of mixed bag because when you look at the research on risk factors for addiction, so what kind of temperament of a person makes them more vulnerable to addiction, you see some interesting findings. First you see that people are more vulnerable to addiction. So what is impulsivity? That means having difficulty the thought or desire to do something, and actually doing it. And people who have difficulty who have a thought to do something and just do it impulsively, are people who are more - Interesting. Could I, in terms of impulsivity, is this something that relates literally to the startle reflex? Like I, for instance, as a lab director, I'm familiar with walking deciding I'm going to talk to my people, of course when they knock on why am I being bothered right now? Even though I love to talk to them. But I walk around my and some people I notice, I'll and they'll slowly turn or no, in some cases. And other people will jump They actually have a, a kind Is that related to impulsivity, or is what you're referring to an attempt to withhold behavior under very deliberate conditions? - Yeah, so I don't think is necessarily related to impulsivity. That can be related to anxiety. So people who are high anxiety people will tend to have more Impulsivity is a little bit different. And by the way, impulsivity Impulsivity is that thing where there's not a lot of self-editing or worrying about future consequences. You know, you have the idea And of course we can where that's absolutely wonderful. You know, there can be a sort of, let's say intimate where you wouldn't really want to be super inhibited about it, right. You would want to be I can also like imagine like sort of fight or flight scenarios, like battle scenarios, right, where it would really and just go rhino! - Where hesitation can cost you your life? - Right, yes, that's right, that's right. But, you know, and I think this brings up a really, something that I've come to believe after 25 years of practicing psychiatry, is that what we now conceptualize as mental illness, are actually traits that might be very advantageous. They're just not advantageous right now, because of the world that we live in. And I think, you know, impulsivity is potentially 'Cause we live in this you have to constantly be the consequences of X, Y, or Z. And it's such a sensory that we're being bombarded with these sensory opportunities. And we have to constantly check ourselves. And so impulsivity is can be a difficult trait, but isn't in and of itself a bad thing. - I see. And it's, I'm beginning to between spontaneity and impulsivity. - Yeah. - What is pleasure and how does it work, at the biological level, at the psychological level? And if you don't mind the range of things that you or in life, that people But just to start off really simply, what is this thing that we call pleasure? - Well, I think it's actually in any kind of succinct way, because certainly there is or a euphoria, or I think, you know, the kind of experience that with the word pleasure. But also the seeking out of those same substances and behaviors is often a way to escape pain. So for example, when I talk sometimes their initial is to get pleasure, but very often it's a way whatever their suffering may be. And certainly as people become addicted, even those who initially are ultimately just of withdrawal or the of their drug use. So I think it's, you know, very define it as this unitary thing. And it's certainly not There are so many ways in which people sort of want to escape, which is not the same thing you know, wanting to feel pleasure. - So someone could decide that or get up and dance, because I can imagine that. But, and maybe it's very when a particular song But seeking what we would call pleasure in order to eliminate pain, that evokes a different That evokes a picture of or depressed or underwhelmed. I definitely want to get into the precise and general description of but in a previous conversation we had, you said something that which is that many people who let's call them addicts, have this feeling that normal That they are seeking a and that the day-to-day routine balance, which is actually in &quot;Dopamine Nation, Finding Balance that the word balance itself an adversive term for people. And I'm struck by this idea, and the reason I want to explore it is because so much of what I see online is about generating a lack of balance, about being tilted forward at all times, really leaning into life you know, living a full life. Even the commencement on this campus was really You know, that's so much So maybe you could just about your experience if it really exists, between or maybe even how boring life can be, and their tendency to - Yeah, well, I mean, I think that life for but I think that now it's And I think that the way is that it actually is really boring. And the reason that it's boring is because all of our survival I mean, we don't even to meet every single physical need, you know, as long as of financial wellbeing, we talk so much about, and certainly there is this enormous gap between rich and poor. But that gap is smaller in like the history of humans. Even the poorest of the to spend on leisure goods, than they ever have If you look at leisure time, for example, so people without a high school education have 42% more leisure time than people with a college degree. So my point here is that life is hard now in this really weird way, in that we don't really have So we're all forced to whether it's being a or being an Olympic athlete, or, you know, climbing Mount Everest. And people really vary in And some people need a And if they don't have it, And I do think that a lot with addiction and other are people who need more friction. Like they're unhappy, not necessarily because with their brain, but because their brain is - And do you think they have that sense, my brain isn't suited to this world, or they simply feel a restlessness and they're constantly - I think that's right, yeah. I think it's not really and why am I unhappy, And of course, as you talk about, what's so pervasive in our narrative now is like find your passion, out of whatever it is, to save the world. And in a way that's good because it has people out But in a way it can also be I think people aren't entirely aware that the world is a hard and that, you know, like we're Do you know what I mean? - Yeah. Well there's a book by Cal Newport, I don't know if you but you guys are very He's a professor of computer Yes, at Georgetown. And wrote a book some years called &quot;So Good They Can't Ignore You&quot;, which is about not to try and figure out what but rather go out and acquire skills, - Right. - and develop a sense by your experience of hard work and getting better end feedback. - Right. the growth mindset, think of our colleague Carol Dweck. But he's gone on to which is all about removing and doing deep work. - Yes, right. - And he's been a big proponent of the evils of context switching - [Anna] Yeah. - For sake of productivity, mostly. His new book is called I'm beginning to realize, and your book, &quot;Dopamine Nation, Finding Balance in the Age of Indulgence&quot;, that maybe the reason why you two don't know about one another is because neither of - That's it. - Right. - And yet you're two of that I know, including productive authors. So that's a discussion unto itself. But I find this fascinating. So let's talk about the pleasure And I've heard you use this seesaw or balance scale, - Right. And I think it's a wonderful clarified what addiction is, at least at the mechanistic level. - Yeah, so to me, one of the in neuroscience in the last 75 years is that pleasure and pain are co-located, which means the same parts of the brain that process pleasure also process pain. And they work like a balance. So when we feel pleasure, when we feel pain, it tips And one of the overriding is that it wants to stay level. So it doesn't want to to pleasure or to pain. And with any deviation from neutrality, the brain will work very hard or what scientists call homeostasis. And the way the brain does that is with any stimulus to one side, there will be a tip in equal and opposite amount to the other side. - It's like the principle laws of physics. - Yes, right, right. So like, I like to watch YouTube videos. When I watch YouTube videos it tips to the side of pleasure. And then when I stop watching which is a tip to the on the other side. And that's that moment of wanting to watch one more YouTube video, right. - Yeah, and I just want So this moment of that is associated with pain, I think, is, are we always aware of that happening? Because you just described - Right. - But when I indulge in something I enjoy, I'm usually thinking about just wanting - Yes, yes. I don't think about the pain, - Yes. - Right. So really excellent point because we're mostly not aware of it. And it's also reflexive. So it's not something or that we're aware of, unless we really begin to pay attention. And when we begin to pay attention, we really can become very Again, it's like a falling away. You're on social media and, you know, you get a good tweet of something, and then you can't stop yourself because there's this that as soon as I disengage I'm going to experience A falling away, a missing that feeling, a wanting more of it. And of course, one way to combat that is to do it more, right, and So I think that is really what and get an awareness around. Because once you tune into And then when you begin if you keep the model I think it gives people what they're experiencing and understand it. And in that understanding, which is really what this is all about. Because ultimately we do We can't live in that We have other things we need to do. And there are also serious consequences that come with trying that experience or that feeling. - Yeah, so if I understand this correctly, when we find something, or that we enjoy, that feels sex, gambling, whatever it happens to be, and we will explore the there's some dopamine release when we engage in that behavior. And then what you're telling - [Anna] Yes. - and beneath my conscious awareness, there's a tilting back of the scale where pleasure is reduced, - Right. - And I've heard you say before that the pain mechanism has over the pleasure mechanisms, such that it doesn't just It actually brings pain Could you tell us a little - Yeah, yeah. So what happens, again, so the hallmark of any is that it releases a lot of dopamine in our brains reward pathway. Like, right, like broccoli a lot of dopamine, just doesn't, right. - I'm trying to imagine, I and I stopped myself because. Broccoli's good, it can be really good, but broccoli is never amazing. - Right. Broccoli's never amazing. - We're never like, - this is the most amazing broccoli. - Honestly we can probably for whom broccoli is amazing. And of course if I'm - Rich Roll. Rich Roll is big on plants, and he has a good relationship to plants. Rich, tell us how to If anyone could do it it'd be Rich. - Yeah, yeah. But what happens right that is really pleasurable and is again, my brain is going by down-regulating my my own dopamine transmission, And that's that come that after-effect, that moment Now, if I just wait for then my dopamine will re-regulate itself and I'll go back to whatever But if I don't wait, and if I keep indulging again ultimately I have so much that I've essentially reset my brain to what we call like an anhedonic, or lacking in joy type of state, which is a dopamine-deficit state. So that's really the way the main driver, is because in these high reward that my brain has had to compensate by way down-regulating my own dopamine, such that even when I'm I'm in a dopamine deficit state, which is akin to a clinical depression. I have anxiety, irritability, And a lot of mental or getting the drug. And so that's the piece which easily passes, but it's reset really our dopamine thresholds, and then nothing is enjoyable, right? Then everything sort to this one drug that - And that one drug I mean, I - I know people in my life that are still talking this one person that was just so great, despite all the challenges of that thing. It's almost like they're - Yeah. - They were maybe, or still So it could be to any number gambling, a person, a narrative. To me, and because of the way this pleasure pain balance, that all speaks to the of our brain circuitry. And this is something that fascinates me, and I know it fascinates you as well, which is that nature did not for 20 different types of addiction. Just like anxiety is a couple and neurotransmitters and pathways, and one person is triggered another person is triggered by spiders. But the underlying response is identical. It sounds like with addiction as well, there may be some nuance, but that there's sort of So it doesn't really matter if or sex or a narrative or partner, whatever. It's the same addictive Is that correct? - Yes, exactly. And that's where this whole idea of cross-addiction comes in. So once you've been severely addicted, that makes you more to any substance. - And when you say is what you just said - Yes, so, when I use the word drug I'm talking about substances I'm talking about behaviors - Porn. absolutely, shopping. - Work. - Work. - You've accused me, I'll Anna, Dr. Lembke's accused has diagnosed me outside the of being work-addicted. You're probably right. The first thoughts I have when I wake up are typically about work. Certainly within 50 And probably the last thoughts I have, I would hope are not about work, but yeah, I work constantly. I do other things, but I have - Yes. That's exactly right. And you're certainly not alone in that. And of course- - At Stanford, no, no no no. - And we're here in Silicon Valley, right, it's highly rewarded, right. So that kind of addiction. - It's embedded in the culture. absolutely. And there's this other city, I think it's called New York, where they also work a lot I hear, and it's heavily rewarded. I once said, and I'm sure to say it, but I was and I was thinking about and I posted something to addiction is a progressive narrowing of the things that bring you pleasure. That was the way that the literature in my mind. And then we met and you of course came and gave these amazing lectures for the medical students, But I tossed out a kind of as well, which was a bit which I said, addiction of the things that bring you pleasure. And I said, dare I say, enlightenment is a progressive expansion of the things that bring you pleasure. Not that anybody knows but it was my attempt to at the fact that nobody knows. And so why not, why wouldn't I throw a neurobiological explanation? Just to kind of sample the waters. And people had varying levels the reason I bring that up is that I would imagine that being from many things would You know people like this, that can experience and in big events. Not just, you know, the but also the subtle, you know, as the, like the yogis would say, If such an ability exists, do you think that that reflects a healthily tuned dopamine system? One that can engage and Is that what we should be seeking? And to underscore, I know nothing about enlightenment I just, I use these as - Yeah, so it's a great question and I understand the question as, so what should we be striving for, right? Where should we settle out? And, you know, in my book, I really hold out people in as sort of modern day because I do think that and then get into recovery, do have a hard won wisdom And the wisdom, I guess, you I mean it's many things. But in terms of, you know, dopamine, the wisdom is there are adaptive And there are less than adaptive ways. And in general, you could as not too potent. So not tipping that balance to the side of pleasure. - So does that mean never allowing myself to be absolutely in complete bliss? Or does it mean not allowing myself to stay in that state too long? - The latter. I think the latter. Then that gets to temperament, so I'm going to get that to a second. So, in general, what we want is some kind of flexibility in that balance, and the ability to easily We don't want to break our balance, which is possible if we overindulge for enough period of time and end up with a balance this dopamine deficit state We want a flexible, which can be sensitive to things going on in the environment, which can experience which can experience This is all adaptive and We would never want a - Right. - That would be a disaster, And we wouldn't want that, On the other hand, what people in recovery from to some extent having things being a little boring So trying to avoid some of this intensity and thrill-seeking and escapism, that really is at the core - Sorry to interrupt, can we add stressful and boring? - Yes. - Because there are days where I'm not, I'm one of these people to have fun, - Yes. what the term means, because I like to think that I experience a lot of pleasure in little things, but I'm a pretty hard-driving guy. I like goals and big Anyway. The point being that thinking oh, there's nothing to do, but I am kind of overwhelmed that are really not pleasureful that I have to do. - I won't mention what they are, 'cause I don't my colleagues to be like that's why you don't respond to emails. No, just your email. Not yours Anna, but theirs. In any event, so anxiety and boredom can Am I correct in? - Oh, for sure. I mean, actually boredom is - Okay. That's good to know, 'cause and they think like, oh, - [Anna] Right. - There's nothing. I feel like we have a ton to do, we just don't really want to do it. - Right, right. - As opposed to something - Right, okay, so this gets to sort of some of the core things. Also we were talking about earlier about finding your passion. So I'm going to try to But basically boredom, first of all boredom is a rare because we're constantly from the present moment, and we have an infinite number But boredom is really, I think, an important and necessary experience. But it is scary because when let's say you were, had you hate to do, but you Imagine that. And you got your forthcoming book done, and you did all your interviews. - It could happen! Lightning could strike. And you walked your dog, and you went shopping. Imagine that for a moment. You would be sitting in your house, and my guess is you would what am I supposed to do now, right? There's nothing I really have to do. And that is really, really scary. That can feel like free fall. And yet that's really an important and good experience to have. And I think that is an experience out of which we can have a but also really consider Okay, here I am on planet Earth. What the he-haw am I What do I really care about? How do I really want to spend my time, when I'm not distracting myself, you know, in order to spend it. And, you know, then this a little bit earlier about So I think that one of that's very misguided about this idea of finding your passion, it's almost as if people into the lock of the thing - Right, and then a natural progression? - Right, and then everything - I can attest to the fact in any endeavor. And that you'll have all And here's where I really And I really, really believe this. Stop looking for your passion and instead look around Stop distracting yourself, look and see what needs to be done. So not what do I want to do, but what is the work And more importantly, it doesn't have to be some grandiose work. Like does the garbage need Is there some garbage that someone threw there, that you could actually and put into the garbage can? Look around you. There is so much work that nobody wants to do. That is really, really important, I really think the world And this is what people who get into recovery, realize. They're like, it's not and what I'm going to will It's about looking around What is the work that I am Which also is incredibly freeing because I don't have to There's a lot of burden that they have to find that perfect thing, and until they've found they're going to be miserable. You don't have to do that. Look at the life you were given, look at the people around you, look at the jobs that and do that job simply and with a kind of humility. I think this is really about the wisdom of people in recovery. There's this incredible humility that comes out of that experience. You feel so broken, so ashamed, but you pick yourself up one day at a time and you build a life that's around what can I do right in this moment, that might benefit another - Yeah it's a really important I'd like to actually stay because I think the dopamine systems, if I understand them correctly, the dopamine systems merge with this work that you're referring to, this immediacy of things calling to us, like taking out the trash, which sounds frankly really I hate taking out the trash, but I do it, 'cause I like a clean home and I like a home that smells good. Or at least doesn't smell bad. So we do these things, and some larger carrot as a But if I understand correctly, in the act of looking at acting on that immediate environment, we cultivate a relationship about action and reward span the range of small and then lead us to the It's not like all we're and tend to house. We eventually will venture out, and we eventually will find But if I understand correctly, you're talking about getting or adaptive action step, and it's the action step that because most of our mindset is in things that are truly outside Do I have that correct? - Yeah, that was beautifully said. And I would just add to that, I see a lot of young spend most of their waking and they come to me and they say I am anxious and depressed. I'm majoring in computer science. I hate it, I thought I would like it. You know, if I could only find that thing that I was really meant to And my first intervention for the many many people like that that I see in clinical care I don't say it quite like that. You were waiting for that thing to pull you out of the video game world. And you're never going to find it, as long as you're playing video games. 'Cause video games are so that you have this distorted sense of really pleasure and pain. And you will not be able to And so of course the intervention is abstain from video games, start with a level balance. And what invariably happens, and I've just seen it over I've become really a believer in this, all of a sudden it's like oh wow, my computer science class It's like okay, you know, to experiencing pleasure and reward in a way you just don't have when you're bombarding with these high dopamine drugs. - Very interesting. And just to underscore this notion that tending to the immediate things can lead to super performance. I may have mentioned it but if I didn't I'll mention it now, which is I have the great privilege of having some close friends and doing some work And it's a remarkable community most people don't understand. People think, they see the images, carrying logs down the blowing stuff up, all the stuff that's fun for guys like that. But all of the guys I know have this sense of duty and not just holding the door and doing, helping with the dishes They are constantly for what can be done. - Ah! - They essentially conquer They are also some of the in the world, and they do it, unless they're in the act of war fighting, which is their real job. They do it in every environment, And it's a remarkable thing because it, I think it's what is part of And, you know, there's a range there. But I think when we hear about tending to the immediate things, or this phrase, you know, how you do one thing That's a tricky one for me, because there are certain But should we always be trying? I think that the tending to, and tending to things in I think is very powerful and translates, - Yes. I think the nervous system, It has action steps. The brain doesn't evolve to do one thing, it evolves to be able to doing lots of different things. - Yes. I just want to add, so even beyond that, 'cause that totally resonates for me, and is very consistent with people in recovery from addiction who learn to take it one day at a time, which is one of the, you know, standard lingo from Alcoholics Anonymous and other 12-step groups. But I think also, as you say, you know, our brain is really wired We're not very good at sort I mean we have this huge frontal lobes and yes, we're great planners and we can, but if we live too much in that space, we can really get very anxious and either catastrophize or get grandiose. But if you can chunk it down to a day, what people in recovery talk about is how, if I can just do today right, then I will get a chain of days that seem insignificant but after six months of those good days, I've got and I look back and it's like oh wow, I guess I did all that. But I think that's really, is really taking it one day at a time, which your SEALs, and also this connecting So being awake and alert and connecting with your environment, not trying to escape it. And of course escapism is that experience of non being. And we get it from the or whatever it is, but Because ultimately it takes from your immediate environment, which is where we really have to connect to get that sense of and like of being in our own lives. - Well I think the unit of the day is something that comes in my discussions with colleagues who are extremely successful, and who also have balanced lives. - Right. - This actually came up in the discussion with Karl Deisseroth, who is and clinician and, you know, So the unit of the day, And those stack up, as you mentioned. So along those lines, I've heard you say that in order to reset the dopamine system, essentially in order to to become un-addicted, 30 days of zero interaction that person, et cetera. - Right. - Yeah, and 30 days is, the average amount of time it takes for the brain to reset reward pathways for dopamine transmission There's also a little bit of science that suggests that that's true. Some imaging studies showing that our brains are still in two weeks after we've been using our drug. And then a study by Schukit and Brown which took a group of depressed men who also were addicted to alcohol, put them in a hospital where they, they received no treatment for depression but they had no access And after four weeks, 80% of them no longer met So again, this idea that of this high dopamine high we allow our brains to for the balance to really equilibrate. And then we're in a place where we can sort of enjoy other things. - So that progressive narrowing - Right. eventually expands. So I'd like to dissect out that 30 days a little more finely. And I also want to address how does one stop doing if the thing is a thought? So we'll kind of, I'll put that So days one through 10, I would imagine will - [Anna] Yes. - They're going to suck because the way you described to my mind says that if you remove what little pleasure one is from engaging in some The pain system is really ramped up. And nothing is making me feel good. I'll just use myself as an example. I'm not in recovery but, you know, that 10 days is going to be miserable. Anxiety, trouble sleeping, - Yes. you know, maybe impulsive, angry. Should one expect all of that? Should the family members of - Yeah. So what I say to patients, and it's a really important is that you will feel worse - For how long, is probably the first question they ask, right? And I say usually, in you'll feel worse for two weeks, but if you can make it the sun will start to And by week four, most people are feeling a before they stopped using their substance. So yeah, you have to, it's a hard thing. Like you have to sign up for it. And I will say, obviously there that are so severe that as to their drug or behavior, they're not able to stop themselves. And that's why we have, you know, higher levels of care, - Sure. - residential treatment. So this is not going to be for but it's amazing how many people with really severe addictions cocaine, you know, very I posit this, I do it as an experiment. I said you know what, I'm always amazed, number one, And number two, how many of They are able to do it. And so that little nudge is And the carrot is, you know, there's a better life out there for you and you'll be able to taste it in a month. You really will be able to begin to see that you can feel better, - So the way you describe but it's doable for most people, not everybody. - And we'll return to who can't do that on their own. Well, then days 21 through The sun is starting to which translates in the and supported by biology, that dopamine is starting to be released in response to the taste of - Yes, exactly. Whereas before it was addictive behavior. - Right, that's right. - Of course, coffee can be addictive too, but we'll leave that aside. I feel like coffee has a kind of consumption limiting mechanism built-in, where at some point you - Yeah. Sorry to give lift to the As I clutch my mug. So days 21 through 30. I've seen a lot of people and addiction treatment. I've spent a lot of time looking at it, researching. I've got friends in that community. I'm close with that community. One thing I've seen over and over again, sadly often in the same individuals, is they get sober from These are people with families. These are people that you discard your normal image of an addict and insert the most normal, typical, whatever, healthy person you can imagine. 'Cause a lot of these people And then all of a sudden so-and-so's back in jail. So-and-so's wife is going to leave him because he drank two bottles of wine and took a Xanax at 7:00 a.m., crashed his truck into a pole, Like how did this happen again? To the point where by the people are just done. I mean maybe people, you might be able to detect I'm dealing with this, I don't even know that I It's been so many times, to the point where I'm starting to wonder is this person just an addict. This is just kind of what And you never want to and I'm hanging in there for them. But I will say that many And so what I'd like to is what sorts of things help other people that we know that are addicted? What really helps? Not what could help, And are there certain people I mean, I don't like to hold but I wouldn't be close if I didn't ask. Is it hopeless, are there people who just will not be able to or their addictive behavior, really wanting to? - Yeah, so there are people who will die of their disease of addiction, you know, and I think conceptualizing is a helpful frame. There are other frames that given the brain physiologic with sustained heavy drug use, and what we know happens to the brain, it is really reasonable to And for me, the real window of, let's say being able around people who are repeat relapsers, even when their life is so much better when they're in recovery. - It's like a no-brainer, right? Is to conceptualize this balance and the dopamine deficit state, and a balance tilted to the side of pain. And to imagine that for some people, after a month or six months, their balance is still That on some level that and its ability to restore homeostasis. - It's almost like the - Yes. - Exactly. And so, I mean, for someone who's never like yourself, maybe one - Well I didn't say that. - [Anna] Oh okay. - To be clear, I was not in this example I was giving, I would reveal that. But I think that, especially after hearing and descriptions of the range I think I've been fortunate for drugs or alcohol. - Right, okay. - I'm lucky in that way. - Frankly, if they remove all I'll just be relieved because no one will - [Anna] Right, right. - So don't send me any alcohol. It won't go to me. - [Anna] Right. - But I don't have that, I like to think I have the compassion, but I don't that empathy for, you know, taking a really good situation, and what from the outside looks to be - Right, right. - Yeah, so okay, so let me, important because I also had to come to an understanding of in my 20 years of seeing these patients. And of course addiction - Sure. and so you've got the Imagine that you had an itch And it was, I mean, we've whatever the source, it You can go for, you know, you could go for a pretty not scratching it, but the moment you stopped you would scratch it. And maybe you'd do it while And that is what happens to That balance is essentially broken. Homeostasis does not get restored, despite sustained abstinence. They're living with that It never goes away. So let me say, there are for whom that does go away. And it goes away at four But in severe cases, that's and it's the moment when they're it's like a reflex. They fall back into it. It's not purposeful. It's not because they want to get high. It's not because they value using drugs more than they do their family. None of that. It's that really they cannot not do it when given the opportunity, and that moment when they're Does that make sense? - That's a great description and actually in that description I can feel a bit of empathy, because the way you described scratching an itch in your sleep. - Yeah. I've done that with mosquito - Right. like you wake up scratching And I also have to admit not feeling like I want because it's so rewarding, but - Yes, of course, yes. use this thing, I'm not and then just finding myself doing it, like what am I doing here? - Sort of the how did I get back here again? - And I know enough about that we have circuits that And we have circuits that And one of the goals of the nervous system is to make the deliberate stuff reflexive, so you don't have to make the decision, because decision-making is - Exactly. - Decision-making of any kind. - [Anna] Right, right. - So that does really help. I want to just try and weave however, because if by week, so first phase of this 30 or 40 day detox, it's like a dopamine fast, - Right. First 10 days are miserable. Middle 10 days, the clouds are out, there may be some shards And then all of a sudden it gets brighter and brighter. Why is it then that people will relapse, not just after getting fired from a job or their spouse leaving them, but when things are going really well? - Yes. unconscious mechanism? 'Cause I've seen this before. They have a great win, I have a friend who's a I don't want to reveal any more than that. And relapsed upon getting another really terrific opportunity to And I was like how can that happen? But now I'm beginning to wonder, was it the dopamine that opened the spigot Because it happened in a phase of a really great stretch of life. - Yeah, right. Yeah, so you raise that great And triggers are things that make us want to go back to using our drug. And the key thing about is they also release a little So just thinking about that we associate with drug use, or just thinking about drug use, can already release this this new little mini spike. But here's the part that I That mini spike is followed So it goes up and then it it goes below baseline tonic levels. And that's craving, right? So that anticipation is wanting the drug. And it's that dopamine deficit state that drives the motivation So many people talk about dopamine as not really about pleasure, but about wanting and about motivation. And so it is that deficit state that then drives the locomotion to get it. - And earlier your description of dopamine being involved in the desire for more, giving the sense of - Right. that those things are braided together - Yes, yes. for the specific intention of then you feel the pain. - Yes. you don't notice it. And then the next thing you know, you're pursuing more of the thing that- - And I love the way you use that's beautiful. And let me also just say, something that I find also fascinating in my work with patients, There are people for whom you know, in any form, stress, that's a trigger, but for whom the trigger is things going well. And the things going well can be like the reward of the things going well, but very often what it the hypervigilant state that's required to keep So it's the sense of I want or I want to, this reward happened, I want to put more reward on there. And it's really really fascinating because when people about themselves, that when things are going well, because then they can or barriers in place or whatever it is that they do, you know, to protect themselves. - Along those lines, I have was a severe drug and alcohol Really impressive person, does a lot of important at-risk youth community out in Hawaii. And he said something to me, he said, as former addicts often do, But I think it fits very well He said, you know, no you're always the same And I said well that's kind that's actually what gives me peace. - Yeah. - Because what would happen is for so many years of recovering and relapsing, he And then somehow conceptualizing that the vigilance can never go away, instead of making him feel burdened, - Yeah. So I often think about no matter how far you drive, you're always the same because in my mind I that's a tough way to drive down the road. But actually, on a road where and where you know where it's actually a pretty nice drive. It's when you don't know that you constantly have So there's this, we're and imagery and science. But I, one of the things about this community of 12-step, and there are a variety of them, are the communities that and some of these sayings, to really core biological mechanisms. - Yes, yes. - I do want to ask I have a question which might - Great! - Which is, is it possible that people who were addicted to drugs or some other behavior, get addicted to the addiction community? Because one thing that I is that there's some circuit that has to tell you about the dream they had the night There's another circuit that if they themselves can't sleep. I don't know what circuit it is. I'm being facetious here. But there does seem to also be a circuit in the brain of addicts kind of talk about their recovery a lot. And I mention this not to poke at them, but rather the opposite, because I think that one at least for me, and having for drug or alcohol but certainly some of them, is when they're talking I feel like it's all they talk about. This meeting, that meeting, that meeting. So what I'm really asking here is that, can we become addicted to sobriety? - Right. So this is a great some of the other things having to do with where do What is the way to live And I implied earlier that ultimately we want a resilient balance that's sensitive to pleasure and pain, but that can easily restore even when we indulge greatly. But the truth of the matter is that people with severe addiction, I believe temperamentally and they're wired for that is more than just around the fulcrum, right? It's like they want the - They'll say great meeting. - Yeah, right, right. that was such an amazing meeting. Or they find a group, - They find a group in a location. - Yeah. - This is almost an inside Again, I'm not reporting, I'm not talking about a friend in quotes, this isn't me reporting. They'll talk about how at a given meeting, or to people at a given meeting. - That the meetings themselves - Right. of dopamine hit. - Yes, yes, yes. - And again, I'm not I want to understand this. - Right, so yes, so a lot of oh, you know, I don't want to go to AA. It's a cult. And my response to that is because it's a cult is Because yes, it is much better and to recovery, than almost any other And we know from Rob Malenka's that oxytocin, you know, is the hormone that's and relationships and love. And it directly links to dopamine neurons and causes the release of dopamine. So yes, when we connect with other humans, especially in a kind of that's a huge dopamine hit. And it does replace the dopamine And for people who have they need it on a more intense level. They're not going to be you know, a sort of They want that intensity of with people when you're warts and all. So yes, people can get and good for them. Go for it, you know. And of course this can be disruptive for friendships and relationships, where the one person is not in recovery. Like you're going to so many meetings, you're always talking about much better than them I mean, so although you talking about their meetings all the time, I'm sure you would than, you know, be in their addictions. - Absolutely. And this is now the second through this discussion, because the way you describe their enthusiasm about meetings, - Yes. that people feel about me and work. - In neuroscience. - I mean, I've been getting since I was eight years old and talking about things Now I just happen to have - Right. - I've been doing it since I was a little. And it annoys a lot of people, right. I've learned to suppress it a little bit. Some people like it, but just to say that I now can understand that the way I feel yet another amazing meeting or, or for there's a different form of this. But there's some people for which they just love intense experiences. - Yes. trying to pull me off to Bali because they're talking all the time, I'm sure Bali's wonderful. But there's this kind of ratcheting up, it's like seeking Burning Man all year long. - I've never been to Burning Man, no desire to go to Burning Man. But inside of academia I mean if I were to just inside of academia, or work, and the - pursuit of more success, even if money is kind sometimes it is sometimes it isn't. Academic work is, you know, for sake of pursuit of knowledge. It sounds to me like the same mechanism. In fact, it feels to me very - So Andrew, here's what I love about you. First of all, you're willing and foibles to this conversation. - Well they're everywhere. - Well, you know what, it's wonderful. And then you're really open and curious and wanting to understand, 'cause I can't tell you who really see addiction But the truth is we're And if you're not addicted yet it's just, it's right around the corner. Do you know what I mean? Especially with the incredible and behaviors that are out there. So I love that you're and really try to understand we can all relate, and essentially your work You just happen to be that is really socially rewarded. You know, you figured Oh, when I do X, Y and look at that smart kid, or - Well for me, it made me feel safe. - Okay. - I felt like. Yeah, I just felt like this, and I pause there 'cause I'm like ah, I can relax for a moment. - When you're talking about neuroscience? - Or just when I feel like - Yeah, okay. Or if I see something - Right. - I'm like, I feel filled - Yes. flooded with pleasure, literally from head to toe. - And then my next thought is more. [laughing] - So true, you're a true addict. - Okay, thank you. You are. But you just got really, - you really got lucky with the fact that what you're drawn to is And then your challenge your life doesn't get too out of balance in the sense that you're 24/7 working, you don't stop and do some - And my life, admittedly, I mean it has other et cetera, but it is somewhat asymmetric. Which is why I got a dog. Although I talk about - But the dog is good because and a little bit away from the work. But again, you know, I for people who feel like they don't, they've never experienced addiction or they don't know anybody with addiction, or if they do, they don't get it, just think of that one thing that is the most important that gives you pleasure And then imagine if you couldn't do it. - Oh yeah, let's not talk about that. - [Anna] Right. - Well I appreciate the feedback and you can send me a bill at the end. What is the most ridiculous that you've ever witnessed, that was actually a real Because I think we all know You've been very, I should mention, because it's important, and we will provide a focused on the opioid crisis and what we thought was medication. It turned out to be just than a lot of so-called street drugs. So we understand those, sex addiction, porn addiction. Now video games. We'll talk about social media But what's the most like, wow, I didn't realize people - Water. - Really? - Really. So I had a very lovely patient who was, had a severe alcohol addiction, and she got into recovery for many years. But she kind of had a or an urge to be drinking something a lot. And so she drank a lot of she realized that if she could become and be out of herself. - You can die from it, right? - Right, which is, she just wanted to be out of her own head. And so she would overdose on water, in order, you know, to, I know, it was so sad, so sad. - What happened to her? - She eventually took her own life. - Wow. - That's rough. She was so bright. She had so many interests and passions, and of course it was very sad But that was a wow to me, it was like wow, if you have this disease of addiction, you can even get addicted to water. - Wow. And I think it just underscores of the circuits. - Right. - There isn't a brain circuit that she happened to have. There's a brain circuit for and water plugged into that circuit. - Wow. That's intense. In your book, &quot;Dopamine Nation&quot;, you also describe some People that, you know, I won't say which ones and who 'cause there are some great both tragic and triumphant, as they say. You've often described your - Yeah. a little bit more about that. - You know, when you to give up a drug or a behavior how much courage that takes and stick to it-ness, these people are really amazing people. I mean that's, I don't what they do, you know. And like, you know, we just the constant even after sustained periods That's really really hard. And of course then you double down on the shame that they even when their lives are so much better. I mean these people are And you take their and then you imagine the where we are constantly and really bombarded with opportunities to become addicted- - It's like feeling an itch everywhere. - Oh yeah, I mean you can't escape it. You know, you cannot escape it. That you'll get an email in your inbox inviting you to do X, Y, or Z. And if you're addicted you try to like delete all All of a sudden your work inbox, you know, you're getting those images, let's say. Really, really, really hard. And yet these people find a way to do it. I think it's absolutely amazing. And they're really wise people. They have so much wisdom to offer. They've taught me a lot. You know, as I talk about in my book I have my own addictions, and I really just like took I was okay, what do I do now? All right, what did this okay, I'm going to try that. - It is an amazing community - Yeah. they are very sage. I wanted to just touch on which is the shame. - Yeah. - You know you can't go to a without detecting or hearing about like lies, shame, et cetera. I heard you say in an interview that truth-telling and secrets are sort of at the core of recovery. And yeah, tell us more about that. - Yeah. So one of the things that I working with people in recovery, even about the merest was central to their recovery. And I became really curious about that. Like why would truth-telling And of course there is when people are in their addiction, they're lying about using, you know. So part of getting into recovery is to stop lying to the about their use. But it's really more than that because what people in recovery it's not even just not I have to not lie about anything. I can't lie about why I was which we all do all. Oh I hit traffic, no I didn't hit traffic, I wanted to spend two more and drinking my coffee, right. Or just lying about, you know, I don't know where I had dinner. Like, so people with addiction the lying habit where they're 'cause they're sort of And how recovery is really you know, in all ways. And so one of the things that I, I had a lot of fun with is sort of exploring why truth-telling is important And we know like every religion, since the beginning of time, Well why, right? And there's really interesting that suggests that when we tell the truth, we actually potentially strengthen our prefrontal cortical circuits, and their connections to our limbic brain and our reward brain. And of course, these are the when we're in our addiction, right? Our balance, in our reward our emotion brain, is doing one thing, and our cortical circuits are completely disengaged from that, ignoring what's happening, which is easy to do We don't need to think about that balance for the balance to be happening. But we have to re-engage those circuits, anticipate future consequences, think through the drink, you know, not just how am I going but how am I going to feel And that telling the truth to make these connections stronger. And there I talk about that kind of indirectly show that. So I find that really fascinating, plus just that like being really does create very and those intimate So we were talking a little bit about how you know a bunch of people who need like intensity in their lives. For me, I need a lot of intensity Like I'm really not interested in, and bored by and made anxious But you know, like having this that's very intense and also is very rewarding for me. So that's an important source of dopamine. Thank God I became a psychiatrist. - Yeah, absolutely. - Like I can't disclose all my stuff, but I am quite transparent which is a slightly unorthodox. But, you know, when I think it's right, I'm also transparent with them. So that's, you know, that's when we're honest and we disclose. You think people are going if you tell them about all but really they don't. What they're like is oh thank God, I'm not the only one, right. - What I love about, I love I read it in one sweep. - Oh thank you. - And I was like wow. I was pleasantly surprised, she's really opening up in this book, from the very beginning. And I don't want to give you're very open where it's appropriate. And also I think that this I always think about like tell the truth, be a hundred percent about the truth, but there's also this element about do you report previous lies, right? What about prior behavior? And I'm fascinated by this has many facets, but the in my mind, are one is The other is what do you withhold, what do you not withhold, right? Because some people say tell the truth, or at least don't lie. That's sort of a- - Lies of omission, right. - Yeah, so lies of omission. Lies of omission. And then there's the, what I is a small to enormous batch of things that they lied about in the past, that still thread into the future. - Right. - So how important is it for the addict, or every person really, to, 'cause it sounds like between prefrontal cortex would be great for anybody. Since we're all addicts, - Right. But in all seriousness, it sounds like a good How much work needs to be all the stuff we've hidden? I mean not me, but all the stuff that everybody else has hidden. - Yeah, so the, you know, the steps of the 12-steps a good number of those steps The past, the ways that we've And the fourth step is you know, by admitting the ways in which that we've contributed to harming others. And it is a really big piece of recovery. So, you know, how important, it's really, really important And, you know, the key idea there is you just go back and and you don't have to get any or you don't need to be forgiven. It's the act itself of apologizing about the ways in which we've harmed or lied to people in the past, that is cathartic and renewing, and allows us to kind of shed this skin and be new in our lives and begin again. Sort of absolved, you know, So it is really important. You know, are there situations when it's maybe not a good idea, because of that person or the nature? Sure, you know, there it doesn't have to be like, it's not, we're talking about not I'd never lie, robbers in your house. You're a stowaway. You can't lie even about that. It's like no, there are - Absolutely. - For sake of other people's safety, - Right, and- - Right, I mean there are, you can think of a million scenarios. But in general, you know, because I don't know about you, but I have a lot of regrets and guilt about a lot of things in my life. And they kind of haunt me, you know. It means I'll have nightmares, right. And I think that's true for most people. I mean I occasionally will I don't have any regrets Like I cannot relate to that at all. So, you know, this idea of I mean, in the 12-steps it's telling God, or your higher power, the ways in which you've wronged others. Considering your own character defects and how those have contributed. To me, that's a really important piece and something that we don't do enough in our current culture. Especially in psychiatry, frankly, where there's like a lot of eternally empathizing with patients, but not a whole lot of actually you kind of messed that up. Or like that was really And in my work, I don't but, you know, patients might say like I really feel badly about, I'll be like yeah, I get it. I understand that you feel. - Well guilt is a- - [Anna] Right. - There's a circuit for that too. - Right, and it's important, right, and it's also important to recovery and to not becoming addicted. Experiencing a certain for things that we have feeling the pain that comes with shame, which is an incredibly And I think that may be the more than any other, is like that shame of not being or not being celebrated. is really despicable. - Right, it's really, I did that horrible thing, right, right. So, I mean, I've done horrible things that I haven't gone back and but I'm, maybe I've Like I've told my kids, you know, when I was younger I and it still haunts me. So if you're ever tempted to you might think about my situation. So, you know, some kind of way. But I think wrestling - I think it's a really and there's not, I love that on truth-telling, - Yeah. of truth-telling. - Yeah. if I were to predict a new that people are going to in this huge sphere we call neuroscience, I hope they'll continue to do more work. Also, I'm so glad to hear that's - No that's, the literature that I look at isn't Stanford work, but there's work. - Great. at Stanford. regardless of where it's happening. More of that and all the rest please. I want to ask you about using These days there's a growing interest, or at least discussion about ibogaine. People going down, going out of country, because I think it's still going out of country to, I dunno, either inject it or smoke Or people going and doing which is still an illegal but there are clinical trials. There are people on this campus I don't know of clinical trials, but at Johns Hopkins there are So this is a vast area, right? Different chemistries for different drugs and different purposes. But the rationale, as I understand it, is take people who are in launch them into a experience that's also chemical and extreme, often of the extreme serotonin So MDMA, - ecstasy for instance. Tons of serotonin dumped, How neurotoxic, if neurotoxic, debatable, et cetera, et cetera. Not a topic for now. But a lot. And then somehow that extreme experience wrapped inside of a whether or not there's just someone there or whether or not they're with the patient, is into a life where drug use This violates, at a purely rational level, this violates everything in terms of dopamine biology. It would, if this arrangement cause more addiction, is it's a dopamine feast. So we hear about successful at least anecdotally, and What is going on? What is going on? It doesn't make any sense to me. Yeah. - Yeah, so I think it's I think we all should be skeptical. Having said that, there are you know, and these are small studies and they're short duration, but, you know, taking people for example, who are addicted to alcohol, let's say a psychedelic experience in a very controlled setting. - So either, typically it's or three dose, as I saw of MDMA. - Right. Those are sort of the, - Yes, the typical, right. of this kind of work. But the thing to really this is completely interwoven and that these are highly - In clinical trials. - Right, right. And these are clinical- legal clinical trials. - Right, right. And so, you know, I think the metaphor that helps me think about this is there are many ways to and these are sort of instead of walking up. It sort of, instead of doing like a year of psychoanalysis where you're sitting reflecting on your life, it's a condensed version of plus, you know, MDMA, which - And creates the intimacy, - Well I think the main thing that happens when it's beneficial, is to get outside of their own on a much broader sweep, not mired in the quotidian but rather as a human on in the vast universe. So I think it takes, it's a transformational experience because it gives the person another lens through which to view their lives, which I think for some people because they can come oh my gosh, I care about my family, and I don't, I want X, Y, or Z for them. And I realize that my continuing to drink is not going to, you know, achieve that. So it's almost like a So I think it can be very I truly am quite skeptical addiction is a chronic It's hard for me to imagine that there's something that that's going to work for a disease - Yeah, the two addicts I know that did MDMA-assisted psychotherapy both got worse. - Yeah. - But the people I know who who took this approach, - Okay, interesting. I think that the discussion, is just sort of psychedelics, that includes many different with different effects. And we hear about trauma and And I think that I'm a as we say in science. And I think it's going to be that this is definitely kind of thing. But it sounds like it under certain conditions. - Yeah, I think so. I'm trying to be very open-minded about its potential utility But I can tell you in my clinical work, what is a very concerning of this narrative, is I have a lot of people who spiritual awakening who on their own, not in the context of psychological work, you know, microdose or want to try or wherever, so they can have that they can figure out their lives. That's a disaster and And I've then had people who literally, supposedly you can't get you know, something with the biochemistry which I don't fully understand, 'cause it doesn't make any sense to me. But I have patients clinically who definitely are addicted to, you know, MDMA, to micro-dosing. So that's very concerning Pollan's &quot;How to Change Your Mind&quot;, I respect that work, but on the culture- - [Anna] Yeah, yeah. - And I don't know him and taking a stance. So I'll just say my stance on that is the narrative of popular authors can expand and wick out so fast, - Yes. - that pretty soon people are essentially taking their mental health And I actually, I have great of clinical use of Matthew Johnson at Johns Hopkins is doing fabulous work on this. And there are others too, of course. But those are controlled settings. - Right. - And the pharmacology is being tuned up. And one thing that I think is coming. There are several papers in great journals like nature where there are scientists the hallucinogenic and finding that they still - Interesting. of a psychedelic, and the long-term effects might actually be dissociable. And so, again I, and I'm I'm neither for something or against it. I just think that treading - I agree with you, and the downstream effect many of whom present in our clinic, is that they've misconstrued the data on the use of psychedelics to this idea that they're safe, or that anybody can take and have this kind of awakening. And that's not what the data show, right? The data are these highly carefully selected patients. So that's my worry, you know. - Sure. And I'm going to be sitting at some point, and we'll discuss this. And I think that, ah, of real clinical care, does seem to be an important component. - Well I'm glad we could I'm sure I'll get a bunch of comments telling me that, you know. But I think it is from all sides, and that's what we do, as scientists. - And if Michael Pollan wants That's fine. I very much enjoyed the book actually. - But I think that people run with ideas. - That's right. - They don't walk with them, they sprint. Yeah. - There are a couple other but they all relate to social media. - [Anna] Okay. - You were featured in It was a powerful movie. I think many people because it reflects back on us and how manipulated we all are. - [Anna] Yes. - But it doesn't seem to I have to say that the movie changed my understanding but not my behavior too much. If we look at addiction something that's making our lives worse or us less functional at I could imagine a version of social media where it's making me more connected. I mean this is a podcast after all. - Yes, yes. This will show up on YouTube and elements of it on Instagram as well. So much like sugar or other things, I have to imagine that not necessarily eliminate, this behavior. So I want to talk about And I want to talk about as this narcissistic preoccupation that social media is creating. That we are all far more and how we sound and how than we were 10 years ago. - [Anna] Right. - So first of all, social media, And what is healthy social media behavior? - So the first message I about social media, is and it's engineered to be a drug. And it's based on, you know, the bottomless polls, the likes, the way that it's enumerated, all of that. Which doesn't mean that we can't use it, but we need to be very thoughtful just like we need to be thoughtful about the way we use any drug. And so that means with planning our use, right. And trying to use it as to potentially connect with other people, and not to be used by And of course, you know, people are going to come for addiction to any drug, and that's true for social media too. Some people will have no or using it in a way that's adaptive. And other people will And the key thing about when it's happening, nobody thinks they're getting addicted, right. Let's face it, it's only after you know, what was that about? - Remember texting and driving, there are all these books how terrible it was. - Yeah. - Even the governments You see these billboards - Terrifying. or any text can wait, or whatever. Not worth dying for. - Right, right. texting and driving. - Right and if you look at I mean they're basically that the phone is there. You know, it's like they're talking to you and texting 12 friends at the same time, and there's no stopping it. I mean the genie is out of we're not going back. - [Andrew] Right. - So we do need to figure out, you know, how to make this tool going to be good for us And I don't have all the answers by any stretch of the imagination, some of the wisdom that we have learned from using other drugs, also Which is to say that we have to, again, put barriers in place that allow us to remain in control of our you know, not too often, not too potent. - Do you think in, going the unit of the day being a manageable unit of time for most people, so you're saying in advance, in which you're going to free reign use of the phone and all its apps and all its things, or even more restricted I'm only going to allow to post and comment, and then - Yeah, so I think it's, and sort of a combination. We talked earlier about, you know, having an itch and We've gotten to a point with smartphones, people are pulling them out and they are utterly pulling them out, you know, They don't know they're doing it! who works in, delivers babies, and many pregnant mothers won't actually deliver And this used to be the hand that was connected to their spouse. This may be a comment on But it sounds like it's a of sorts. transitional object, yeah. - Actually that reminds me, I think it's the phone, but maybe it's our online as we've become sort of it's like a baby and a bottle. - Right, right. - And so I do wonder if we have regressed, and I do think we've our online behavior. Our inability to act like. I always thought an adult was somebody that can - Yeah. between a baby and an adult. You don't have to be a for very long to understand that a young organism an older one can. So to me, a mature organism, that can't control its It's an immature version of itself. And there's neuroscience I look at my own behavior and I think, I'm a grown man. Like what is the problem here, right? You know, I don't eat baby food, but I'm acting like a baby in the sense that I'm I'm not being intentioned Do I need a full 30 days, Anna? - So yes, so- - 30 days away from my phone? - As you know, that's my recommend, the full 30 days to reset. If you're severely addicted, But if you're just a little you probably don't need 30 days. In fact, a single day, not but probably may be sufficient. - My phone is off for - Okay, that's great. - And it drives other people crazy. People expect me to respond. But I don't care. - Yeah, right, right. And I actually take a in the fact that, well, because I think the is the right one, which is that but like why, I don't see or emails that say must X amount of time or else, or else. So I take the liberty of - Yeah, that's right. - Right, which touches on about social media, is are spending more and we're divesting our libidinous from real-life interactions. So that means even when we want to choose to not be online connecting, we go outside and there's There's nobody else there. So I think our collective challenge, and it should be our mission, is to make sure that we are preserving and maintaining offline ways 'Cause if we don't do that then if we were not online. But if you have a tribe of none of whom are on their phones while you're together for then it's wonderful and liberating And I think that's really the key. And I think young people are They're trying to create these instead of doing a do it with your friends, right. Then there's the FOMO is because, oh you're all doing So these are some of the tricks - I like that. okay good. I don't allow, I have a home I just enjoy it and always have. And I don't allow my - Right. - And I live in an area where like two meters outside my door. So all my dog walks now are just, and they were boring as hell. - Yes. he doesn't like to walk. It's really slow. And it was so boring for a while - Yes. to taking calls while I walk, - and it's super efficient when I do that. The walks now are some of - Yeah, right. if I were to get a call on one of those or they brought reception of the areas, I would be very dismayed. - So I can attest to this, and I don't think I'm a phone addict, but I do put work into - Yeah, so this is the key. You have to, with intention, prior to being in that physical and metacognitive barriers that you can put between or whatever your drug is, to create these intentional spaces where you're not constantly essentially, and distracting yourself, because I really do think, just before we started with we're losing the ability to I mean we get so far and then, then you get to that point in the thought where it's a little bit hard And it's very easy to check or look something up on the internet. And then you never get that opportunity to finish that thought, which is really the and an original thought, right. You're not just reacting to what's coming at you. that could contribute to the world. - That's right. - I'm a big believer that or you are creating. And there is, I should I do believe in neutral time. I think sleep is great. I'm a big proponent of sleep and I've talked a lot I care a lot about sleep. And not just for sake of performance. I actually just really like sleep. I think that being a constant consumer of visual information and can be a problem. But there's some really on the internet. - And I certainly benefit those channels exist. Narcissistic pre-occupation. Am I a narcissist? - You know, first of all, there's healthy- - Or is the fact that I asked, would a narcissist - Oh yes, a highly - Oh I see. - Well I'm not very sophisticated. - So there's healthy narcissism, which means that we all into things that we care about. And if our competence in we would all experience and that's normal and healthy. But we are living in a I mean that's not news, this preoccupation with and individual self-worth and And I think all of that is where we're not just seeing ourselves, but we're seeing people's and every single, you know, we get likes and this and that. It's really insidious and ultimately to a lot of personal shame, because we're not really bouncing around in the universe. We're social animals. And we're probably generally happiest, even for natural contrarians among us, when we're part of a tribe, right. And if we do too much to from that tribe, I think that the brain's natural and instinctive corrective is self-loathing and shame. So, you know, it's so ironic because the culture tells we'll like ourselves more. But the truth is actually the opposite. That I think when people of personal achievement, you know, you have things or whatever, you know. - Or you just, you know, we're at Stanford after a lot of high achievers. - Right. Some phenomenal, amazing and other colleagues of mine Like it's just amazing, like And also people who have coming from very little But it's also the pressure, - Yeah. You know, the way that this the day I got my job, was the late Ben Barres said, 'cause you're never going to without getting interrupted. That was partially true, And the other one, very member of the National you know, just remember, it's pinball. You never win. The best you can do is just keep playing. - Yes, right. Okay. And then you just go. - Right. as we achieve more, not but as anyone achieves more, there's the relishing There's often the desire for more, but there's also the pressure of, well now I have to do this even though I love it. It's the pressure of, well, then how do I get here and here and here, and then you start shoveling more dirt on so you can keep climbing. And it's a lot of work. - [Anna] Yes. - And I think that the there's a roar of the You don't cruise. They just give you more to do. - Right. more to do. - Well what I think is, at and I've heard this from other it's that prize that we're going for, that if we get it is so unsatisfying. And it's the prize that we never imagined that we kind of go, well, but gee, you know, that feels good. And so I'm very, what's the- - It's like a mirage - Yeah. - Yeah. - It's almost like dopamine - Yes. - That there's some place there. And if I just, it's that pot of gold. If I just- - Right, right, that's right. - And I think, you know, is related to our discussion earlier about this taking it one day at time, or paying attention to that, you know, 24-hour period in your environment. I am absolutely fascinated by the ways in which we accumulate totally independent of It's really process-oriented. It's like, where am I today? How can I make today a a little bit better, or as good as some other days I've had? Constantly tweaking and experimenting with this experiment that And when we do that in and paying attention and value-driven, whatever our, you know, it is very, very interesting how those days again I guess I contributed but I wasn't trying to do that. You know, I think that's really, I mean, what I'm so amazed 20 years ago when I went or 25 years ago, you know, I just, I was happy to just be a good doctor. I was like, I guess I'm just how to be a good doctor, And now I see these medical They're brilliant and they're - well-intentioned, all that. But they're like how can I, you know, write the great American novel, apply for that grant? You know, it's like, really, I was just trying to And it's, as you say, it's And it's also kind of a weird leapfrogging of the real way to accomplish something. - Right. oh how can I accomplish something. It's like, what can I do today Right? And then finding that of trying and not really going for recognition, can sometimes lead to although that wasn't - And it's all the more beautiful when it's not what you're aiming for. - Oh so much better, so much better. - Yeah, I'm a big align their compulsion - Yes, right. or the planet or animals, whatever it is, that's where the really Because there's a lot The world starts to, and then it starts to support you in a way that feels very fluid. Right, and I mean that speaks to you like your generosity to And I have to say- - Well, I love the book. - I know, it's- - There's like, we're not It's just purely that I heard I wanted to learn more about dopamine. She taught me, I asked her if she would Turned out she wrote this amazing book. She sent me an advanced copy of the book. I read it in one sweep, it's incredible. And I love it. So just like the eight now the 45 version of myself, I can't stop blabbing - Well it's awesome, but I have to say, I have been surprised by your generosity. It's not something I've which is a wonderful place. But there is a general to somebody else, I've lost something, which is not the right Not how you are, and also 'cause when we give away to other people, we get back so much more. But it takes a long time and it might not come through that path. - I never think about reciprocity. But I was weaned by good advisers. - That's very nice, - Yeah. - I think it just sort that the more you give, the - Yes, yeah. - And I also don't have a I just, I'm just excited about the book. I'm excited that people are learning about the brain and dopamine. I have to admit, having grown up in I did not understand were orchestrated the way that they are. I'm very mindful of it now. - Oh good. - And it's changed a I know a number of people and want to get in contact with you. You are not on social media. - That's correct, yes. - You are true to your ideology. That's great. - And the reason for that is just, I wouldn't be able to control myself. I mean, that really would be my drug. People are my drug, intimacy is my drug, and I wouldn't be able to manage it. And so just, it was just easier rather than try to moderate it. - Well the book, as you mentioned before, and as I can attest to, is People get to know you through the book. So definitely check out the book. If you have questions you're welcome to send them my way. I will buffer you from I'll filter them. Anna, Dr. Lembke, I should I've been referring to you - No no, that's fine. the whole way through, but thank you so much for And I know I learned a ton. and I know everyone else is about addiction and the - That's right. Thank you for having me. It's been really, really - Great, thank you. Thank you for joining me for my discussion with Dr. Anna Lembke. I hope you enjoyed it as much as I did. Please be sure to check out her new book, &quot;Dopamine Nation, Finding Balance You can pre-order it on Amazon or any places where books are sold. It's an absolutely all about addiction and dopamine. If you're learning from, and please follow us on YouTube by subscribing to the In addition, you can on Apple and Spotify, and on Apple you have the up to a five star review. If you have comments or suggestions for topics for future podcasts, please put those in the comments section below this episode on YouTube. In addition, we have a Patreon. That's patreon.com/andrewhuberman. And there you can support us Please also check out our sponsors that we mentioned at the That's a terrific way and our ability to continue to bring you zero cost to consumer and science-related tools. And last but not least, thank you for your interest in science. [upbeat guitar music]