What happened... Hello Mr. Saleh. Alik, hello, welcome. Shahrukh and Shadi do not like to go to a new place. From now on, Ishaq and grandmother will no longer disturb us and Masoumeh will marry Saleh. They are upset with Arslan because he has been postponing my appointments for 10 days. Shahrukh, do you like Masoumeh? - Yes. Masoume, I hope you will be happy with Saleh. Start a new life with peace, I myself warn Isaac. I am surprised that Arslan has accepted. Does Dost Saleh want to go or stay here with him? - I don't know Does he want to invite the people of the village? - Yes. When we were with Saleh, he did not tell us that I had relatives or acquaintances. He also sent me here to inform you that he allowed you to propose. When we were with Saleh, we did not see his father and his father did not come to him. Guests arrive. I also have to prepare myself and the things to go to the courtship. Shahrukh, let's put on our clothes and go. Do you think these clothes are beautiful? Masoumeh should comment on these clothes. The clothes are beautiful and of high quality. You didn't stay with us that day to choose clothes. We also buy white clothes for the wedding day. Fariba, thank you for helping. - It is a duty. The joy of your shoes is gone. Shahrukh has collected a lot of oak. So that I can help you too. - Hossein, help Sadiq. Hello and greetings. Did you come here again? - Yes, I said I will come back to see you. What's going on here? - There is no news about health. Thank you, but you didn't have to bring us anything. Warn Isaac not to inform Grandma again. We will not allow Isaac to come here anymore. Whenever he goes to his grandmother, he deceives her. He might have gone to grandma's when we got here. I can't stay there, I only go there on construction days. The important thing is that Saleh has come to propose to Masoumeh and no one can stop them from getting married. Why do you want to build a new house? This land is among the agricultural lands and the government does not allow us to build. Atlas compliments and praises me before you, but blames me when you leave. Did my father send you here? - No, I decided by myself. We were preparing ourselves to propose to Masoumeh. If you want, you can come with us there. But I don't know that family and I can't go there. If you want, he will welcome you here, otherwise, come with us and we will go. When do you want to go to Arsalan's house? I want to go now because he has invited the villagers for dinner. You are insisting and I will come with you. Preparing dinner and preparing it for the guests. Where are the rest of the family? - My sister is in her own house and I don't have a brother either. OK, consider me as your brother and I will come with you. I didn't know you were going to propose today, otherwise I would have bought a gift. I am happy that Masoumeh wants to marry Saleh and take care of his children. My kids are annoying and I have to have a wedding party after finishing the house. Mr. Ali, are you married or single? - I am single. Why did you get this ring? - It is a memorial from someone. Mr. Ali, I think you have a good financial situation to drive such a car. To give you that car as a gift. - No, thank you very much, I do not accept. Why do you travel all this way to see Saleh? I come here as a friend if you don't want me to come again. Thank you for your great favor. Mr. Ali, what is your opinion about this ring? - It is very beautiful. I didn't know you were going to propose, otherwise I would have bought you a present. You don't have to walk, wait until we go with my car. What is wrong with this land that you want to go? This land belongs to Hassan and Hassan is Arslan's niece. Arsalan raised Hassan and this land was a partnership between Arsalan and Hassan's father. Hassan complained about us and we have to leave here. Before you built a house here, they should have told you that it is used for agriculture. Hasan paid you the damage? - Arslan took his car from him and gave it to me. I wanted to dissuade him from suing and give him some money but he refused. how much money do you need The government says that this land is used for agriculture and you should not build a house there. If you want me to follow up myself so that I can return the house to you. Thanks, no need. Masoumeh is coming now. - He must be very happy. Cut the meat into equal pieces. Sadiq wanted to go to Salih, but I don't know if he went there or not. Will your mother come with you? - No, if he finds out that I am going to propose, he will disturb. Give him his address so I can go talk to him. He is inside the village, but I don't go to him. How many families live here? - About 8 families. Bring the tent and bouquet from inside. The road leading here is also dangerous. I was also very afraid to take the van from this road. So that I can talk to Hassan to give you the house. Now the government does not allow us to stay there. To pursue the case myself. - But a definitive order to evacuate the house has been issued. I can't tolerate anyone oppressing others. They should have told you before building the house that there is no building permit there. Hello and greetings. Shadi is also happy that his father has come to propose. I do not know this man. I am a good friend. Two days ago, my father sent him to me and helped me. I don't know where my father is now, but I don't care what he is doing and where is he? He didn't want to come here, but I insisted him to come. We also informed the family of Ali and Siddiqa and other neighbors and invited them. I didn't have anyone to bring with me, I only brought Agha Ali here. I was also sad because you postponed our date for a few days. I had gone to the funeral and to visit our relatives in the city. Do you want to live in a new place? - Yes, to complete the house. Isaac and your mother are bothering us. I don't care about their actions at all. Who is Isaac? - He is Ali's brother and one of our neighbors. He wanted to marry Masoumeh, but Masoumeh did not marry him because he was immoral and unemployed. What is the problem with Saleh's house that he wants to leave? Hassan's father and I were co-owners of land. We bought Hassan's share, but now the government has filed a complaint and does not allow us to build a house there. Saleh has decided to live near the village to have better conditions. I have to wear other clothes that Saleh did not buy. I have no new clothes to wear them - I told you to sew the ones you bought. Atlas, next time we want to go to the city, I will buy you clothes. - Thank you very much. I deliberately did not buy you clothes because I was upset with you and Arslan. Who was that strange man? - He came from my father last time and came here again. I said either we should cancel the marriage ceremony or we should bring him here. Hello Siddique, how are you? Hello, thank you, welcome. Saleh has come to propose and we invite you to dinner. Sadiq says that Saleh came to propose and invited us. Saleham had already invited us and we will come. They invited us. What do you think? It is better for Saleh's sake to accept their invitation and go. Father, shall we come too? Yes, both of you come. It seems that Ali's family did not come. - They will come, but I don't know if Isaac will come with them or not. Saleh has come to propose, you are also invited if you want to come. Get out of here, you shouldn't have come here for this at all. Shame on you, why do you disrespect them? Whether we go or not, they will marry each other, so it is better to respect them. Isaac, put on your clothes so we can go. Don't talk, get out of here soon. Saleh, what is your relationship with Ali's family? I am not related to them, just because we were in the same village, we used to go and visit together. Did you tell Ali's family to come here? - Yes, we didn't know beforehand, otherwise we would have bought sweets and gifts for them. The leaves of the trees are falling, but it has not snowed or rained yet. Hello and greetings. Salih, you have finally come to courtship. - Thank you. Saleh had also invited us. - I knew that you would come and Isaac would not come. Arslan, I'm sorry, who is this young man? I don't know him either, he said, I am Saleh's friend and I have never seen him before. A few days ago my father had sent him and now he came to see me himself. Sadiq said, Ishaq became very angry and upset. Get up and help them. Where is Salih your father who sent this man here? I don't know where he is and I don't want to meet him. Where was your father until now that you remembered? Is this expensive car yours too? - Yes. Saleh, you must have savings so that you can start a new life. I am not planning to get married right now and I am waiting to complete the house and then have a wedding party later. For now, I brought a gift for Masoumeh and put a ring on her hand. Marry Masoumeh as soon as possible so that Ishaq will not bother us anymore. Ishaq will probably go and inform the grandmother and Hassan. Masoumeh, hold the flower in your right hand so that I can throw the curtain over your head. Congratulations, I hope you will be happy. Mr. Arsalan and Ms. Atlas, with your permission, I will put the ring on Masoumeh's finger. Yes, of course, be blessed. Thank you and thank you all. - Please, Ali, you should think about me too, because my grandmother and Ishaq may bother me tomorrow. They can no longer disturb because Masoumeh and Saleh are engaged. Miss Atlas, you go prepare dinner. May Masoumeh be blessed. Thank you, I hope you and Hassan get married. I am surprised because I have never met this young man in front of Saleh who said that he is Saleh's friend and that he has a very good financial situation. He still didn't introduce himself completely and we don't know him completely. We are very bothered to complete this building. That man also has an expensive car. Saleh said that he has come to see me twice and said that I came on behalf of your father.