Are you here for Huo Yuanjia or Wang Xiuzhi? You are here for Huo Yuanjia and Wang Xiuzhi, and you are here for me. Hahahahaha. For yourself, I want to hear the reason why my master and I He told me a lot of truths, but I didn't understand them all, but he told me 8 words: Everyone is responsible for the rise and fall of a country. Can you take on this responsibility? Isn't your master very powerful? But didn't he still die in the end? Will Huo Yuanjia die and Wang Xiuzhi will? Chen Zhen can kill me too Death, do you think you won't die? But the spirit of Jingwu Sect will never die. I tell you that one day our Jingwu Sect will definitely open in Japan, right? I'm afraid that day won't happen. Today is the last day to capture you. If the Jingwu Club is not handed over to the gendarmerie before noon, they will arrest people and set fire to the house. If anyone resists, they will be killed. You have to rush back to the Jingwu Club. You only have 5 minutes at most with us, so don't waste time. Come on , come on Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah , yeah, yeah , yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah , yeah, yeah, yeah , stand at attention, do you think kung fu is everything? No matter how fast your kung fu is, you can still go faster. Bullets? Do you dare to bet? Is there anything I dare not bet on? At the worst, I will die for my country. Come on, come on , kill me. Are you afraid to bet with me? Can't you afford to lose? Hello, I'll bet with you . I'll count to 5 to see whether you die or I lose . Come on , come on 12345 , ah, what are you doing here? Third senior brother, third senior brother, third senior brother , listen to Huo Yuanjia's suspicion of taking illegal drugs. We came here specially to check. Of course, we were also very sad about Huo Yuanjia's death, so we specially sent him a plaque. Wang Xiwen, are you hurting me, you bastard? Answer : You all go out, close the door, and walk away, right? Master, please give me some time to support me. It's written above. Who are you talking about, sick man of the boss ? You said it's the fault of the Chinese people. Hum, Chen Zhen, you idiot. How dare you kill people in Jingwumen? If you kill us all, Jingwumen will be finished. Maybe you'll be fine. You fool, come and kill us all. Kill, kill, kill us all , okay , brother. Ah, the four of us are loyal to you. I didn't expect you to kill us. Then let's see who is ruthless . Hahahahahahahahahaha . You see, these people were all killed by your Jingwu Sect. They were all killed by you, Chen Zhen. The Nine Sects are over . Huo Yuan Jia is finished, we are all finished, Fist of Fury is finished, you are all finished, you are all finished It's all over , it's all over, my emperor's dream is over, everything is over, you don't have to worry, I, Chen Zhen, have killed everyone here. Come, come, come, come, come, come , come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come , come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, oh, ah , ah, it's good to fight, good, fight him, Munni, get up, get up . Be careful , ah, ah, I am absolutely certain that you have a problem. I am a specialist. The power of learning is shameless. I heard that you have also fought this, haven't you? I want to teach you a lesson, ah, ah, ok, master, stop , don't go over , master, come down, master, how are you doing? He has taken medicine, I will knock him down. Hold it, you pretend. If you are knocked down, he will definitely follow you. Use this medicine to charm him. If you open your eyes so that he can't see you, you will win , ah, ah , master , master, master, master, master, master, come on, master, master, master, master , what's wrong ? Referee, is he a liar? Is he a liar? Put your hand out and hold it without a gun. It 's useless. It's useless. Is it okay to use you? I have no use for anything in my hand. It's useless . Master Fu Yuanjia, you are a disgrace to your country. I don't care. I want you to die. Master, Master, Master, Master . Ah, Master, Master , Master, Master . Stop it. Master, Master, Master. Stop, Master. How can this be done? Master, stop. Calm down, calm down , Master, Master, Master, Master. What's wrong? Master, master, my eyes hurt Master, what should I do? They are starting to explode. Master, my eyes are fascinated by something. What should I do? Master, it will start soon. Master, what should I do ? It smells so good. Even if I can't see it, Master, I can listen. I can listen, Master. I understand. Don't worry. I know what to do, master, master, referee, master, don't walk around, go, go, go Come on, Master, are you okay? Are you okay? It's about to start, Master. What should I do? Audiences, please pay attention. Audiences, please pay attention. Master Huo will show you the unique skills of hearing and positioning in the third round. In order to cooperate with Master Huo's performance, be sure to do it. Please keep absolutely quiet, please keep absolute quiet. Thank you everyone. How do you fight like this? Come on, come on, come on , ah , ah, what the hell is this trick? This is also science. It's called Chinese Kung Fu. Come on, hurry up . Don't get into trouble. Do n't get into trouble. Don't get into trouble. Don't get into trouble. Don't get into trouble. Don't get into trouble. You won't stop them . You know what? You 're great, great, great , okay , let's lip-sync. It's great . Slow down. Slow down. Slow down, master. You killed my brother. Who is your brother? Owen, you killed my relatives. I will let your wife pay for it. Hahahaha , Master , Master, Mr. Long, this is not a violation of regulations, is it? He doesn't seem to be very calm, Master Huo, please respect yourself, it's okay, everyone, please go back. The first one to appear is Ito Hirobumi, the top master of Japanese martial arts. The next one is from China. Master Huo Yuanjia, the yellow squirrel must win over the yellow squirrel The rat must win . The yellow rat must win. Let's ask our chairman, Mr. Long Shaoji, to announce the rules of the game . Hahaha. OK , let me announce the rules of the game. First master, Itou , is your enemy over there. 8 minutes. Intermission. 3 minutes. 2 seconds. Senior brother , both sides can attack with weapons. All defensive techniques are based on left knee and elbow throws, but no foul moves are allowed. That's all. Please come on, both sides . Master, your hands , ok, your hands , um, salute , okay , you've got the weapon, you've won, you've won, okay , yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah Master , ah , master, master, this is how we defeated the Chinese The best chance. Aren't you a great hero? Aren't you the one who defeated the Russian Hercules ? Are you Huo Yuanjia? Huh, Huh, nation I have ever seen. There is no hope at all , just like each of you now They wanted me to die but they only sent out a lunatic because they couldn't get into this arena. They would just let you die. Look at how selfish your lovely compatriots are . You are now a group of complete sick men of East Asia . Well, have you said enough? You haven't said it yet. It's enough that you don't have a chance to say anything anymore . We Chinese people say hello, master, master, master, good, good, good , good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, you pretend to be crazy, this is the thirty-sixth strategy . Do you think your hidden weapon can hit my kite string? You Chinese are not samurai at all. How dare you use it for your own selfish revenge ? Fraud is to treat others the same way they are treated. Your ancestors, the Japanese rogues, repeatedly invaded our southeastern coast. Since then, how many of us have you killed and how many people have been made homeless? These are innocent people like my brother. We must avenge all the vengeance in today's world. The strong have the final say. If there hadn't been that kamikaze, wouldn't our Japanese nation have been crushed by the iron hoofs of Genghis Khan? The fact is very clear that if our emperor hadn't been determined to reform the New Deal, our Japan today would have been the same as China. So let's tell you that rules are always made by the strong. Go is over . Please separate. Master, master, master. Are you okay? Master, you are not crazy. I am just pretending . There is a traitor in our martial arts school. Find it out quickly. Tian Nan, come and replace this with you, you beast. Stop being delusional. I have no intention of living. Get out, get out of here. Look at your really ripped look. I feel sick just looking at it . Don't be impulsive . Wang Xiwan asked me to let you out. You can put this on and you can go out . I just believe you. What do you mean , do you want you to dress up neatly and watch Huo Yuanjia die? Let Huo Yuanjia know that he is dead but the person he loves is still alive . You want Huo Yuanjia to see how dirty you are? Your Majesty, Master Gao, played well. This game of chess is not what you imagined. Are you disappointed that the game is not over yet? Master Huo, I just want to tell you that I am not your wife. I am a bloody Chinese. Okay. Okay, okay, hahaha, Master, Master, what's wrong ? I've been poisoned. Doesn't matter? It's okay. Why did you hit him ? I will definitely defeat you today. Okay, my strength was too light . Well done, Master. Well done. 198 Didn't you insult China loudly just now? Man, why don't you say anything now? 5432 Hey, what's wrong with you? Master, master, master, master, let's go . Master, go home and rest. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on , come on , come on, come on , come on, come on , come on, come on. Long Da. According to the rules of the game, people should end the game immediately and award the championship to the Japanese player. That won't work. It's not clear what happened to Fearless's injury. Maybe he can play again after it is taken care of , right? Say yes, yes, yes, there is a trick. Well, if Huo Yuanjia can't come out after 5 minutes, then he will be sentenced to lose. Haha , master, what's wrong with you , master, what's wrong with you , ah, master, master? Father, Master, Master, Master, what on earth is going on? Master, what should I do? Doctor, doctor, please save me , Master! Now send us to our mission hospital for rescue. Maybe it's not too late . Announce it. There are 2 minutes left. If Fearless cannot play, the game will be over. It's almost over. How about Master Huo? Master Long, did he pass out again ? It's better to admit defeat. Director, Director, Director, Dean Yuanjia, Huo Yuan Fearless Fearless Fearless Fearless Fearless Fearless Fearless Fearless Yuanjia Huo Yuanjia Huo Yuanjia Huo Yuanjia Master A, Master, Master, you're awake, Master , Master, are you okay, Master, Master, what's wrong with you , my enemy , Master, please teach me , my enemy , Huo Yuanjia, Huo Yuanjia, Master Huo Yuanjia, are you okay , Master, Master Jiannan is not outside. We are sending you to the hospital now , Fearless , Fearless , Fearless, Fearless, Fearless, Fearless, Fearless, and there is still one last minute. If you don't come on, you can only shout. Your uncle , Huo Yuanjia . Yuan A Fearless Fearless Fearless Fearless Fearless Fearless Fearless You must defeat him. Is there anything else you want to say? Yes, I have a lot to tell you. When you defeat him, I will tell you slowly. Yeah, yeah, rock gun master six, save five, save four , three. 21 Ah, Huo Yuanjia, big brother , big brother, you can't beat me, Huo Yuanjia, you have been poisoned. I want to see how you die. The real person who is poisoned is you, Huo Yuanjia, you and Jingwu Sect will end up like your brother. You Chinese people have no hope of national rejuvenation. The dead man is responsible for me. If Huo Yuanjia falls today, there will be tens of millions of Huo Yuanjia standing up. The Chinese cannot be defeated. Oh, I won, I won, haha. If he is willing to come back, he will always be a disciple of the Jingwu Sports Association. I told Zhensheng that I asked him to copy the book because I hope he can run the Jingwu Sports Association well and carry forward your Zhaojia Quan. I think my greatest happiness is that I hope that China can Mighty Yuan Jia, where is Yuan Jia, where is Yuan Jia, where is Yuan Jia, where is Yuan Jia, where is Yuan Jia, where is Yuan Jia, you promised me that you would bring him back , young master , tell me about the injustice , the injustice , hahahaha . Ah, Master , Master, Master, Master, when I think of those days in the mountains, it was always difficult for me to improve my martial arts. There are always a lot of bitter fruits in my heart , like a wolf trapped in an invisible cage. Hey , me, me , oh, oh, my son is good. Qi gathers in the Dantian, body strength is like a mountain, like a smile, not a smile , like a bird, not a bird, just like when I couldn't even stand in the village, I can't get in . The master's wine is back. Haha, you go to stand, aye, really, you are back, She Where is the master's wine? I didn't come back with a drink, did I? Why did I come back without a drink? The master's apprentice's heart is very confused. You have followed him since you were a child. When wolves are together, you are already a wolf. A wolf 's heart will not be confused. Then go ahead . You have been with a wolf since you were a child . You are already a wolf. A wolf's heart will not be confused. Many years later, I will be called the Jingwu Hero. In fact, Whether heroes or bears, they are all forced to come out. I am not surprised that Master died. Maybe this kind of death is the most perfect. Period, give way, give way , coachman. Sit down. Sir, where are you going? I'll go find a hotel for me. Okay. I didn't go back to Fist of Fury immediately because I wasn't calm enough. I have to think about the death of Huo Yuanjia . Is it the end or the beginning of a killing? I must make a decision. You still haven't reflected on what you have done now ? And leave again and again. You told me to leave. I told you to leave . Thank you Jiannan. Go back to sleep. What did Master Chen Zhen say before he died? When Yuan Jia was leaving, I asked him if he wanted to bring Chen Zhen back. Yuan Jia said. Yuan Jia said No need. Chen Zhen will come back on his own. He also asked me to tell you that it was the Japanese who did it, right? No, it should be only The truth is, I'm going to find him, Chen Zhen, don't be impulsive . I came back this time because I wanted to compete with my master. I want him to know that my martial arts has improved a lot. Your master has always believed in you. All of us are also Chen Zhen. We plan to go to the Yamen and let them get to the bottom of it. Is it any use? Those people in the Yamen are just beasts , so don't do whatever you want. Chen Zhen, you must put Jingwu Sect first . This is Yuan Jia's hard work. How could I forget the purpose of my coming back this time ? By the way, I hope you don't tell others that I came back. Why ? Because I am no longer a member of Jingwu Sect. Chen Zhen, are you still unwilling to forgive your master? Zhen Sheng, do you still remember when we were quietly When Hai robs the prison, Jinghai, oh Chenchen, be careful, hey, Zhensheng, what do you mean? Back then, the master was imprisoned because of your brother's injustice . Chen Zhen and I went to Huo Shigong to ask him to rob the prison. Huo Shigong refused , saying that members of the Huo family cannot rob the prison. So what happened next, and then you guys ? Didn't you go? Yes, Chen Zhen and I are not from the Huo family. Let's take a look . According to verification According to the autopsy report, Huo Yuanjia died of chronic poisoning, which means that he would not have survived for several months without the onset of martial arts poison that day . Why didn't you find out? I had always taken care of Yuanjia's diet and daily life until Sister Yun came . I really didn't find any special poison . Who could have poisoned it? Yun Jian, think about it again. Did the master eat anything special before he was alive? Young lady, please go slowly. Please go slowly. Besides drinking soup, it won't be those soups. What kind of soup should you drink? The soup that Wang Fu taught me to make before I came here. The government has already started giving soup to Yuan Jia. I really don't know that I actually killed him, Sister Yun. Sister Yun, I actually killed him. Even if you don't do it, they still have a chance to do it. I actually killed him, Sister Yun, Governor Yun. Sir, I demand that the palace's little servant be arrested immediately. How dare you do such a thing ? Is there the mastermind Wang Xiwen behind this? He and Long Haisheng kidnapped me. Is there any evidence ? Sir, the facts are in front of you. Is there any evidence? Well, then it will be clear if we take the palace and torture it. It seems that the person has escaped a long time ago . The poison Yuan Yong they poisoned was brought by you. Do you know their origin ? They said he came from the country. Poor thing, but I didn't ask more questions about this prince. I dug three feet into the ground and I want to find him. They are in the dark. We have to be careful . Where are we going? It's not about taking a boat. How far is it? No need to go . Just stay here. What do you mean? The patriarch means Let the matter of poisoning Huo Yuanjia be kept secret forever. Do you want to commit suicide or let me do it for you ? The patriarch said that we have meritorious service, but you actually believe his words! Run quickly, Chen Zhen, aren't you already dead? I, I was. I was about to die , but I was saved by them. Those two were saved by them. What's going on personally ? I'll leave it alone , Xiaozhi, don't come here. Don't come here. If you come here , I'll take action. Don't come here. Chen Zhen, come here again. I'll take action . Why don't you kill me? Why are you coming back ? I'm coming back to find my woman. Isn't I dead? Didn't you say If one day I die, you will stay alone in the mountains for the rest of your life. Son, why are you coming back? You told me, but you are not dead yet. How do you know? This is the purpose of my coming down the mountain this time. I practice on the mountain every day . I tell myself that Wang Xiuzhi is dead, but every night I dream about it. Wang Xiuzhi , so I think you are not dead. Why did you fake your death to lie to me? I tried every possible means to make you leave, but you still came back. In fact, these days I also know that you are back, but I don't know why. Just like you know that I am not dead . When I finish my revenge, I will take you away. Then you can take revenge. I know. If you want to kill Wang Xiwen, he is my boss and it is my duty to protect him. You kill him. Just kill me. What are you talking about? The person I want to kill is Wang Xiwen, not you. Why should I seek revenge from you ? Do you think you can walk out of Shanghai after killing Wang Xiwen? Ito is already dead, and Long Haisheng was also killed by you. Those two The spy will die over there . That's it. If Chen Zhen can't do it, I must kill Wang Xiwen . I have to walk to the end. I often look at my hands like this. Even though they are very clean , I feel that they are full of blood. Chen Zhen, are you still going to live like this? What will happen if Wang Xiwen dies? You can't change it. You can't change it. I can't change China , Japan. Let's go together and leave here forever. Hahaha, you believe what this woman said, Chen Zhen. Let's go and ignore her . Just don't waste time looking for her when she comes. You wait here. I don't want Chen Zhen, Sadako. Don't forget your identity. Team leader, Chen Zhen, has stopped taking revenge. Please let it go. Let's go, Chen Zhen, can you give up being Huo Yuan for a Japanese woman? Is A taking revenge? It's me, Chen Zhen's woman, Chen Zhen. Don't tell him, come with me . Hahahaha. It seems that there is something I must tell you. If you hear it, you will definitely feel more uncomfortable than death. Why is he so nervous? Because he I deceived you . Stop talking about Chen Zhen. I'm going to kill him. Oh , don't. Come here, she is not your woman at all. I will tell you now, Chen Zhen. Don't believe her. Shut up. Have you forgotten? On the day of our elopement, you served me for a whole night. I will never forget it in my life. It's really like this. If you want the woman , then I will give it to you, stop, stop, stop Stop , meow , hahahahahahahahahaha, stop, stop , stop, ah , ah, why , why, Chen Zhen, what will you do if I die one day ? Can't we live well? Why is this? People can die at any time, don't you? Have you ever thought about it? When my former master died, I also I thought I would just die if I didn't have any relatives. But then I fell in love with you and now I want to live well. Chen Zhen, if I die one day, you must make me a raft and put me into the sea. Why is this from our hometown? It is customary to put people in the sea after death, as if they have returned home. Likewise, we won't bury dead people on the shore. Xiuzhen, please go over there and find my master. He will take care of everything here. You don't have to worry. I will help you seek justice. Don't worry , I will come to you soon. Are you still there? How long do I have to wait? My patience is limited. Hongkou Dojo is a Japanese place. How dare Chen Zhen kill people there? We agreed that he would surrender at noon and I hope you won't be too impatient . Uncle, what's going on? Then Chen Zhen, he killed the Japanese. Now we are here to arrest people. If you can't hand over Chen Zhen before 50, Then I will burn this house down and arrest everyone. Ah, why is this happening ? Is there any justice? It is the result of pressure from the Japanese envoy. Otherwise, they will use the military police in the concession to arrest people. Then I will have no control over it. Can my adoptive father help us negotiate with the Japanese envoy? No need to negotiate. Why are you still arguing with them about this uncle ? I will definitely cut him into pieces. Jiannan seems to have found the body of Longhai Snake. Uncle Long, if he must be punished, what crime will he be punished for? It is an unforgivable crime to join the party and rebel Thank you Lord Long for your magnanimity. Zhen Sheng explained the situation and dismissed all the disciples of Jingwu Sect after a hard time. How can you just dismiss them today? What a courageous murderer ! Shut up. This place is Chinese land. You, the Japanese, have no right to speak. You just need to remember that blood debts need blood to pay for it. What if I kill one more of you? Chen Zhen exchanges his son's life. Your son is a beast . Kill him. I am doing harm to the people. Chen Zhen, do n't do anything wrong. You can't make the same mistake again and again. You should just ignore it. My master was killed and you took the sun with you. I came to make trouble in our Jingwu Sect. Why did you kill someone ? Why don't you hurry up and stop it if I will find out ? Oh, ah, ah, ah, Chen Zhen, if Chen Zhen kills the Japanese envoy, all the Jingwu Sect disciples will be implicated. Let you let me go. It can be remembered for a long time. You poisoned my master and said it was a fair fight. I don't believe your nonsense. Lord Governor, is this all I have after I leave this door? No one from Jingwu Sect will be implicated , yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, I didn't ask you , I promise you, let the Japanese envoy be released immediately, yes, yes, hahahaha, hey, answer with a loud voice , put this in front of the master's grave. He will be very happy when he sees him. It's okay. It's okay. Don't worry . Chen Zhen's closest relatives in this life are all over there. I miss them very much . I want to go find them to feel comfortable . Please go out. Tell those brothers to wait for me to come out and shoot here. Just say that the one they beat is a bloody wolf, not the sick man of East Asia. Go back and tell you that the Japanese and the Chinese are not easy to bully. Chen Jie, stay here. Oh, today is Fearless. On the day of memorial , a group of little Japanese came uninvited. Not only did they injure the martial arts disciples , they even specially sent a plaque as a gift. Long Haisheng was dumbfounded when he opened it and saw the four characters &quot;Sick Man of East Asia&quot; written on it. He must be dead today because . You bastard , I saw Chen Zhen three strikes five divided by two. He solved the Dongyang Gate outside the door. But when he saw the plaque sent by the other party, he was instantly angry. How dare these people insult him like this in front of Master Lin? Then Chen Zhen asked his junior brothers to close the door and beat the dog. He wanted to end it with Long Haisheng today. But before Chen Zhen could take action, Long Haisheng started to preemptively strike. But he was not Chen Zhen's opponent and was knocked down to the ground in two or three blows. What was written on it? Who is the sick man talking about? It's the fault of the Chinese people. It's you, Chen Zhen , you fool. How dare you ask us to kill people ? If you kill us all, After the Jingwu Sect, it was over. Later, in order to perish together with the Jingwu Sect, Long Haisheng brutally killed his men. But at this time, a sharp knife passed through the hall. It turned out that his men had already seen the situation clearly and did not want to help him anymore . It was a pity that Long Haisheng was obsessed with it. After sending away the last subordinate, he walked out of the room in a daze. He could not understand until his death that he believed in Wang Xi so much. What Wen exchanged was to be exploited again and again. Not only did the emperor fail to succeed, but he also lost his own life in the end. Although Long Haisheng was dead , the mastermind Wang Xiwen was still at large. After bidding farewell to Huo Yuanjia, Chen Zhen brought the plaque to the Hongkou Dojo. He wants to end things with the Japanese today. Come on, Huo Yuanjia, you have been poisoned. I want to see how you die. The real poisoner is you, Huo Yuanjia , you and Jingwu Sect will end up like your brother . You, China. There is no hope for anyone. This is the last battle of Huo Yuanjia's life, but there are only 2 minutes left before the end of the game. Huo Yuanjia is still unconscious. Seeing this, Mr. Xiang Long is also ready to admit defeat. But at this moment, Zhao Qiannan and outside the court All the bloggers are shouting out the name of Huo Yuanjia , Huo Yuanjia, Huo Yuanjia, Huo Yuanjia, Huo Yuanjia, Huo Yuanjia , Huo Yuanjia, Huo Yuanjia, maybe it is God's blessing that Huo Yuanjia miraculously wakes up. After a brief meeting with Qiannan, After getting together, he adjusted his condition and stepped onto the ring again. Little did he know that this was the last time he and Qiannan met. The competition between the two sides continued , but now the two people had no extra moves and only had a physical duel. At this time, Ito planned to use He used his trump card and fought with Huo Yuanjia quickly, but was unexpectedly kicked to the ground by Huo Yuanjia. But just when he was about to continue taking action, Ito mocked and said, &quot;You can't beat me, Huo Yuanjia, you have already poisoned me.&quot; I want to see how you die. The one who is really poisoned is you Huo Yuanjia. You and Jingwu Sect will end up like your brother. You Chinese people have no hope. Everyone is responsible for the rise and fall of the country. I, Huo Yuanjia, will fall today. There will be thousands more. Huo Yuanjia stood up and the Chinese could not be defeated. With the last heavy punch, Ito completely lost the ability to resist, but Huo Yuanjia stood up with his last strength. At this time, the referee hurriedly came over and counted down 987654. 321 Good Huo Yuanjia won him. Wang Xiwen never expected that the carefully planned conspiracy was finally shattered. After that, Huo Yuanjia died of serious injuries on the way to the hospital in Shanghai at the age of 42. His apprentice Chen Zhen will return to Jingwu Sect to write a new chapter. Martial arts legend Huo Yuanjia, you are a shame to your country. I don't care, I want you to die. This is the life-and-death battle in Huo Yuanjia's life. The All Nations Martial Arts Competition will be held as scheduled. However, Fearless's opponent this time was the British boxing champion who was more powerful than Hercules. It is said that this man was not only powerful , but also took a lot of stimulants in his body in order to defeat Fearless Rooney in public . So Fearless again this time How should I deal with it? At the beginning of the game, Huo Yuanjia used his special Mizong Fist and hit him with three punches and two kicks, causing Rooney to retreat continuously. But as the fight gradually progressed, Huo Yuanjia suddenly discovered that his opponent was cheating in the competition. I have absolutely no problem with that. This is me It's a trainable force. I want to teach you a lesson. At the end of the first round, Huo Yuanjia had a slight advantage . But during the break, the foreign devil secretly stuffed Rooney with a pill. What were they planning to do? At the beginning of the second round, both sides were at odds again. After a fierce fight , Rooney suddenly pretended to fall and waited for Fearless to get closer before throwing out the Five Poison Umbrella. Fearless was immediately blinded and could not see anything, but the other party took the opportunity to kill Fearless . Yuan Jia, that's your country's shame Insult me, I don't care, I want you to die , so the two sides ended the second round in an unfair situation. Now Huo Yuanjia is still blind. If the fight continues, it will be a disaster. However, at this time, Huo Yuanjia suddenly thought of a way. Master, I understand. Don't worry, I know what to do. Audiences, please pay attention . Audiences, please pay attention . Master Huo will show you the unique skill of hearing and positioning in the third round. It turns out that Huo Yuanjia is going to fight blindfolded. See this. Even the old rival Ito was stunned by the situation , and the audience did not dare to breathe for fear of affecting Huo Yuanjia's performance. At the beginning of the third round, Rooney walked back and forth on the stage trying to interfere with Huo Yuanjia's judgment, and then suddenly a heavy The punch came, but Huo Yuanjia dodged it and quickly counterattacked. What kind of trick is this? This is also science. He was called Chinese Kung Fu . Rooney stood up and fought again. But every time he made a move, Huo Yuanjia easily defused it and even covered it up with lightning speed. The momentum went straight to the opponent's throat . Rooney was so frustrated that he was about to use his trump card. Unexpectedly, he was caught by Huo Yuanjia, and he used his strength to throw him off the ring . In order for Ito to win the championship, he not only sent people to arrest Zhao Qiannan , but also arranged for an undercover agent to poison Huo Yuanjia's food. Then Huo Yuanjia could finally participate in the competition and successfully defeated Ito Ma. We will continue in the next episode. You Chinese are the ones I have seen. of A nation with the least fighting spirit has no hope at all. This is the last battle of Huo Yuanjia's life, but he was already mentally disturbed after being hit hard. Even his opponent Ito was shocked when he came on stage . He could never have imagined a generation of great masters. He was reduced to such a state , but in order to win the championship, Ito still hit Fearless with a painful blow and then came over and said, &quot;Aren't you a great hero? Aren't you the Fearless who defeated the Russian strongman? Are you Huo Yuanjia ?&quot; Huo Yuanjia, haha, you Chinese are the most unmotivated people I have ever seen. Such a nation has no hope at all. You are now a group of complete sick men of East Asia. But as soon as he finished speaking, Huo Yuanjia suddenly grabbed Ito with his backhand . It turned out that he was not He was not crazy. He just pretended to be stupid to avoid the Japanese and continued to poison him. Then Huo Yuanjia fought back and was caught off guard. But when he was about to pursue the victory, the poison in his body suddenly started to tremble. The first round ended. Although Huo Yuanjia had a slight upper hand , he didn't have much time left. He then quickly ordered his disciples to find out who the traitor was. Wang Xiwen saw that Huo Yuanjia was poisoned , so he asked Ito to try to anger Huo Yuanjia so that he could win the championship as soon as possible. No. At the beginning of the second round, Huo Yuanjia and Ito continued their final life-and-death duel. At this time, Ito suddenly used his trump card and planned to fight with Huo Yuanjia quickly . Unexpectedly, he was kicked to the ground by Huo Yuanjia and could not move. The referee hurriedly came over and counted down to 19. 8 Didn't you insult the Chinese loudly just now? Why don't you say anything now? 54321 But just the last moment was missing. Huo Yuanjia suddenly vomited blood and fell to the ground. Seeing this, the disciples hurriedly helped him into the medical room. Wang Xiwen did not intend to pretend at this time. He directly asked Long Shaoji to suspend the game and award the championship to the Japanese, but Long Shaoji felt like this It's not fair to insist on waiting until Fearless wakes up before talking about what happened. It 's not clear yet . Maybe he can play again after it's taken care of , right? You all say yes, yes, yes, yes, that's right. Well, if it's 5 minutes If Huo Yuanjia can't appear after that , he will be sentenced to lose . Will Huo Yuanjia wake up in the end? We will continue in the next episode.