(door clicks, opens) - Good morning, guys. Here in Bluefield, West Virginia, and today we have quite an driving through the south all the way over to Kentucky. And this is known, arguably, is one of the most impoverished Now, this is former coal country. The industry was booming at one time. It's retracted quite a bit. Many people have left, So today we're gonna get far out, as far out as we can into the ask the questions, learn from them, and get a better understanding Let's do this. (reflective banjo music) (reflective banjo music continues) Here we are in McDowell County, and so this is the poorest 25,600 is the average family income. You see a lot of these You have the coal truck here. Looks like an old school, So these tracks right tons and tons of coal. And since a lot of that coal has declined, well, this is what happens to the towns. These were once thriving, people walking around. You got great homes up here above. I'm sure those were like the You can see a lot of these taking them over. Got a little grocery/deli. Let's check it out. It's like a jungle out here. These forests. Very lush. (birds chirping) Very peaceful. Very closed. (chuckles) Look at this old place here. Looks like it's been around forever, a staple of the community, pictures of families, people Oh, that's too bad. But what a different America out here. (train whistle blows) Look at this architecture, What town is this? - This is the town of Kimball. - [Peter] How long have you lived here? - It'll be 4 years this December. I moved here for work. - Coal? - [Peter] You don't think 100 million? - I don't think so. Maybe if I 6'5, 260 pounds - What's up, Clar? - You all right? Thank you, T. And that's my neighbor. He's... T, you 76 yet? - I'm 77. This gentleman is making a video. - Making a video? - [Peter] About Appalachia. - Oh, about Appalachia. - You wanna jump in, T? (T's laughing) T's got stories. I can tell. - His name is Fred Johnson and his wife's school - [Peter] Okay. - [Clarence] And she - You got that right, how you doing? - Good, good, T. - Nah, it's a rental truck. - Oh, okay. - Your name? - Peter Santenello. Well, nice to meet you. - [Clarence] You won't - (laughing) I don't know. - [Peter] T's the best man in town or all of McDowell County? - I'd say in all of McDowell County. - (laughing) Thank you, Clarence. Thank you, man. - [Peter] T, do you grow up here? - No, I grew up in Tazewell. Tazewell, Virginia. - [Peter] So how's McDowell County? - It's good. It's good. It's a nice, wonderful place to live. People are friendly. - Everybody's friendly down here. You don't meet a stranger. - [Peter] Yeah. - You know, if anybody can If you're sitting on the and got a flat tire, Or if they can't change 'Cause we had a flood And a lady from Bluefield - [Peter] Ah ha. - And the water was up And she got to the end of town and somebody called me and I went down and got and she spent the night I let her stay with me. (chuckles) So I didn't know her from Adam. (laughs) - [Peter] So a lot of old - Old school values, a lot. - [Peter] What about (men laughing) - They're gone. (laughing) - [Peter] They're leaving. They're leaving town? - They're leaving town. And the ones that are here are, they don't really care about anything. They just, most of 'em on drugs. - Really? - Drug problems are a problem here. - Yeah. talking to some locals, it's either people are on drugs or people are super hardworking. There's like no in between. - It's like you got two - Right, that's right. Hmm hmm, two different groups. Mostly everybody around here is elderly except Clarence. (laughing) - I'm 60 and I'm not elderly. - Well. - [Peter] T's 77 and looking some hoops and dunk the ball. - (laughing) Thank you. (laughs) Yeah, I used to in my day, I did. In my day but old age catches up with you. - Eventually. - Eventually, old age catches up with you. - [Peter] Did you ever - No, I was an electrical - [Peter] Okay. - I worked in that job for 43 years. Repairing mining motors, - [Peter] Yep. - I've been, I guess, just working on different motors and stuff. - [Peter] What do you mean, be careful going to Harlan County? Why? There's a bunch of drunks This is 4th of July weekend. You gotta watch out for the young folks. - Okay, what about if I like just randomly up some of the hollers? You think that's a good idea? Or it just depends, the one I go up? - It depends on the ones you go up. - Okay. 'Cause you might- - Some of the hollers are real bad too- - Right. - Yeah, the roads are real bad. Even though you got a Ford. You know what they call They call it &quot;The Patch.&quot; - So could I fit in to - No problem, you'd fit in. - Just gotta put a little of that on? - That's all. Just a little bit of - I can do that. (all laughing) - I'll be your neighbor, Mr. T. Pretty much everyone's involved There is a tourism industry and people getting out But as you can see, even the... The massive hit to a community like this. In the town I was staying in Bluefield, if I wanted to get groceries, the best place was the Walmart. You want to get a avocado, you want to get probably the most fresh fruits and vegetables outside of a garden, it was Walmart. And so when you have it go I mean, we're sort of entering, I think we'll get into it today, sort of food desert territory where it's far away to get pretty much all your staples. You know, outside of mini marts and chips and sugar drinks and whatnot. Very interesting story I was and he told me back in the day with the coal mining companies, the miners would be paid in scrips, which was their own currency. Each coal mining company The catch was, you'd have to go to the equivalent which was a massive general where you'd buy your food, your clothing, whatever you needed, you'd buy there. But you could not take that currency and go anywhere else with it. You wanna leave town, you want to go off to the coast on a vacation with your family, forget about it. Your money only worked for the business that you worked for, which is insane. (reflective banjo music) (reflective banjo music continues) (reflective banjo music continues) Here we are in Welch. This is the county seat. I'm guessing the biggest town here. And look at these buildings. Wow. (reflective banjo music) (car door opens) Wow, look at this place. Looks like a massive old school up there. Wonder what it is now? We have a jail down here. I think that's what that is. I was told in the last town, one of the nicer homes So something like this is almost a giveaway at this point, I bet. Closed permanently, 3/13/23. The Panda Garden out of business. Everything, pretty much vacant right now. You could walk right down the (car whirring) Back in the day, you can see the boss Very, very hard work. (car whirring) This looks like an office or Just feels like everybody picked up and left. Very cool old building. I was told by a local the other day that these rivers just Socialsecurity.gov. Now we gotta meet some locals, eventually. But I was told in these parts, and I can't confirm this at all, but roughly half the people are living off some sort of disability or food stamps or some and half are working their butts off. Okay, there are two guys up there. First two people in town on the streets. Iraq from '05 to '06? - '05, '06 in Baghdad. - A lot of guys here were in the military? - My man here signed up. He didn't get to go. Me and him went in, was and he had to clear - [Peter] Were you sad Or do you want to go? - Yeah, I wanted to go bad. - [Peter] Do you guys work in the mines? - Yeah, he worked mines. I did though. - Nah. You ain't got time to spend no money. So I mean, you don't enjoy life, just ain't nothing - [Peter] So a miner, how - I would work 48 hours But sometimes 60 hours, 60 plus hours. - [Peter] And that's under underground? - Yeah, underground. - For 60 hours? - [Peter] What does that - It's terrible. You're always tired. You're walking around. You're a zombie most of - It's not for me. Now, a lot of people, it is for 'em, but it's not for me anymore. I did a whole three weeks in a coal mine. You did three weeks? A whole three weeks. What was... What work did you like better military or coal mine? Oh, military. For sure. Good brotherhood in the military? You can't find it nowhere else. What about a coal mine? Good brotherhood there? I was never wrong with nobody. They do stick out... Yeah, it's definitely a brotherhood there. Everybody looks out for each other. - How about in Welch right now? Is it a close community? People uh, pretty tight? - Yeah, yeah, it's pretty tight here. Everybody looks out for one another. You know? - If you get out of here, everybody's so many But if you get outta here, you got families, they tight. - You get in a holler, everybody knows everybody. You be a kid down there, time you get home, about five people done called By the time you get there, Everybody knows everybody. That's not a good thing, - You know, I had a don't come into this part of Appalachia. It's gonna be super dangerous. People are gonna be closed off. - Nah, nah. - And everyone's been cool. - Hell, yeah. Nobody, nah. Hey, people from out of town You know what I mean? Most of these people side by sides. They're from other states. They're not from here. They just come down here just to see the country and the mountains. - [Peter] That's the new industry, huh? You got a bit of tourism out here? - Yep, that's right. - That's helped the - Since they built that - [Peter] Yeah, - It's been mad people It's been crazy. - [Peter] Why are the bars here? Is there a lot of crime or not? - Uh. - Not really. It's just this area right here, I guess probably in the early 2000s, it was pretty rough, you know? - [Peter] Okay, okay. - But now, everything's kind - Way back. - So there's not a lot of But there used to be. That stuff's probably- - That place come in the nineties. - [Peter] Okay, okay. So it's gotten better in that sense? - Oh, yeah. It's gotten better and better and better. It just keeps getting better. - [Peter] It keeps getting better? - Yeah. - I mean, the population's going down. Before you walk out here, every one of these streets it'd be bumper to bumper, traffic. - The younger generation. Our generation, most of 'em left here. - Yeah. - I am 40. He's about 43. - 44. So way back when the streets were busy, when are you talking, 20 years ago? - Uh, the nineties. Probably, it's slowed down in the 2000s. - It's slowed down - [Peter] And the younger kids just don't like to get outside or what? - These last two or three they don't really get out much. Most of 'em can't change a flat, so, they ain't... It's a different breed - They can tell you how - Any kind of PlayStation - Fortnite and- - [Peter] So they're - Yeah. - [Peter] You guys don't - Oh, if I didn't have three babies here, I'd done been gone. - If I didn't... I've been gone a bunch of times, a couple times, a few times. And I always end up back. - I think it's like a gym now. - [Man] It's a gym, uh ha. - [Peter] Did you go to school up there? - Ah ha, it was a high school then. Then as the years went by, they turned it into a junior high school. - [Peter] How was it back in the day? - It was real nice, hmm hmm. It was nice, hmm. - [Peter] A lot of kids? - Hmm hmm. - How you been doing? - [Peter] I've been doing well. Thank you, sir. - This used to be a booming place. - It was booming? Well, when the mines shut down and the economy was down, people left and everything. Business shut down. At one time, first, you here in Welch. If you left Welch, it was But we had all kinds of hair stands, bus terminals. - [Peter] You could buy - You could buy everything - [Peter] When did the Walmart shut down? - Ahhh... - How long Walmart been shut down? - A while back? - It's been a while now. - [Peter] Okay, so you love Welch? - Been here all my life. Good people out here. - Good to be around. - [Peter] Danny, you working the sun tan, you're out there on the pool - (laughing) Player, player, player. - Somebody told me, and said, &quot;You getting darker, I go, &quot;Well, who cares?&quot; (men laughing) - [Peter] I'm gonna go up there, guys. I can't walk in or anything, right? - Nah. (men chattering) - It's got a, a hill mark, you go up like a sideway. - But I remember going there years ago go in, take you where you wanna go. - Okay. - You too, thank you. God bless. There are the guys down there looking up at the school It's the cycle of life. And everywhere is always at a Maybe there'll be a time as a place just to get Appreciate the architecture. Some industry would have to move in 'cause everything's cheap But it looks like there's New windows, so that's being used. God, I love this old style. Oh, it looks like a nursery. Or something for kids. So the guys used to run through You can almost hear the door The laughter off the Recess about to happen. The bell going off, three Gonna get out in town and This place got me a little emotional. You guys are missionaries? - Yes. - From Utah. I'm from Utah. - I'm from Oregon. - [Peter] You know Appalachia - At least this portion of it. I think out of all areas is a little bit of Wyoming is about the most like like deep Appalachian you can get. How have you been received - On the hollers?... - Pretty well actually. - Very well. - People out here, very humble people. Very kind. I've served in Ashland, Kentucky, down parts of Virginia and stuff. - [Peter] Yeah. - And then out here it's that everyone will let you in. A lot of time, they're and it just really, really nice people. - So it's a good place to be a missionary. - Yeah. - 'Cause some places in America, I'm sure the door just shuts - Oh yeah. I did that once a long time ago. - You did? (laughing) - Sorry. (men laughing) - Okay. You got some names? - Yeah, I just wrote down Those are two places I gotta go. - Yep. - Take care. Good luck. - Thank you guys. - Take care. - If you don't ever see - Gotcha. - Let my wife know. (men laughing) - We'll go looking for the body. - All right. See ya. It's always interesting to see the missionaries out in the world. They go absolutely everywhere Takes some cojones. It's a one-way road. What, a car every 20 minutes, huh? - Hmm hmm. - Yes. - [Peter] You guys live right up here? - Yes. - She lives right there. And I live on the first - [Peter] So what were you saying about your work these days? - I work 68 hours a week. Six days a week. - 68? - [Peter] What's your - Five to five. 5:00 AM to five in the evening and all the overtime I want. - [Peter] Do you think don't understand coal, Or what are your thoughts on- - They don't. Working in coal mines, even if it's underground it's hard work. And you go out 10, 12 hours a day. If you go in the ground, you don't see daylight - [Peter] Yeah. - You work out over top of the ground, you got the heat, you got trucks, you got inspectors you gotta deal with. It's not an easy job. A lot of people don't understand it. If it wasn't for coal mines, a lot of these people around here would be starving to death. They wouldn't have electricity. They wouldn't have heat. And here you got the government and everybody wanting to Do away with this, do everything electric. Well, you gotta have coal and a lot of steam ships to transport goods back and forth. - [Peter] Hmm hmm, and a lot of your coal goes to China, right? - Yeah. It's just, you gotta learn the people, you gotta learn the culture. And with people out here, everybody thinks we're (woman faintly talking in background) But actually, a lot of than a lot of people give us credit for. - [Peter] Yeah. - We work hard. We support our families and we don't let nobody People out here will bend They'll give the shirt off your back. as long as you don't make Out here, a man's word and - [Peter] That hasn't gone away? - No, a lot of places - [Peter] Thanks, you guys. - You're welcome. - Nice meeting you. (laid back country music) (laid back country music continues) All right, guys, so this is a holler. And a holler is just a narrow road that goes up a valley off the main road. So what I've been told is in most hollers, everyone knows everyone really well. And you know, an out-of-state-er car or any different car than they're used to, it's well known. So depending on the holler, this is just what I've been told, it can be very friendly, very warm and welcoming or the opposite. But from what I've seen everyone's been very, very, very friendly and hospitable. So let's see if we can get up here. And... I don't know what we're It's looking a little... Sketch. All right, sometimes you just can't put the camera on things. And they were junking out on something. Anyways. They were nice at least. I mean, we're deep in now. This is deep, deep, deep countryside, rural America. There's another group of guys I talked to down the road before. I couldn't put the camera on them. That's the problem. You can't just come up and be like, &quot;Can I put the camera on you?&quot; I have to feel it out. You know, a lot of these guys are used to, maybe not used to, but know of, how they're portrayed. And you know, most people, not all, but a lot of 'em that come into this part of the country, put 'em under the bus, make 'em look, make 'em look bad. And so rightfully so, they're And I would be too. 100%, I totally get it. So, it's about feeling it out. And then if they're I can get that conversation on camera and give you guys a look of We got quite a journey though ahead. It's at least another four as we take this back road. (slow country music) (slow country music continues) (slow country music continues) Looks like maybe an old school A guy's washing his house. You can see the soot, which means we're on a coal route. The truck's carrying (slow country music) (slow country music continues) (slow country music continues) (slow country music continues) So this is definitely a We got some houses that are barely there, but then some newer stuff. So it's a real mix. I'm gonna ask these guys How you doing? (Woman faintly speaking) - [WOAMN] You can come on in. - Oh, thank you, ma'am. So this is a nice holler. Is that fair to say? Yep, they call it (faintly - [Peter] What's that? - They call this number - [Peter] Oh. - They got the, now they changed the, what's the name of it now, Maye? - Bartley Branch Road. - Yeah. - Yeah. - [Peter] So the hollers are basically, they go up a valley. Everybody knows everybody. - [Peter] Is that the story? - Yeah, everybody knows everybody. - [Peter] Everyone knows - Yeah. (laughing) That's a good guess. I've been here since '69. - [Peter] You've been here since '69? - Yeah. - [Peter] Has it changed at all? - Oh, yeah. I thought you might be - Thank you, ma'am. Tells about all kinds of mines - We're still in McDowell? - Okay. - [Peter] And so coal is - Yeah, coal's the history here. You know, Biden and Manchin out of West Virginia. What are the people going to do? That's the only thing You know, working in the mines. - [Peter] It's the only economy out here. - That's the only, there ain't And coal mines the only thing - [Peter] Did you work in the mines? - Yeah, I worked in the mines. - [Peter] How many years? - I worked a long time, didn't I, Maye? pillar falls and stuff. You had to, you know, crawl on your knees, run and stuff on that, you take all the coal on your pillars. Sometimes the tops are heavy, 'cause timbers wouldn't hold the top. - Oh, okay. You know, roof falls and all come out. When I told a buddy of mine, I said, &quot;Hey, the miner cut too I said, &quot;Waters are of the corner of the cup.&quot; We got water in the we was in the back of it. And that water has 12 And it just blowed that coal You know? The water was deep, but We had rubber gloves and suits on, but you could still feel power. - [Peter] You saved some coal miners. - Yeah. - [Peter] How many? - Had about eight of us working - [Peter] You saved eight people? - Yeah, when that water - [Peter] Wow. Wow. - See this chapter right here tells you all about what happened And then it gives you a list. - [Peter] How many people - I think they said - [Peter] 90-something people died. - 91. - Down here at this mines in Bartley. It's got all their names listed. There's the big monument. It was down here at the - Moved it up right there right up from me yard. - [Peter] So do you guys, I mean, you talk about it all the time. You live, you eat and breathe it, right? Coal, that's- - Yes. That's the only thing that - [Peter] Yeah. - Mine's just like being at home to me. You know, when I worked every day, it was just like being at home. You know, the mine's really You gonna get killed with - This is a man and his young son. Both of them were killed - [Peter] Mm. So you were saying when Biden came in, he tried to shut the mines down. His policies? - Well, they talked about Manchin and Biden is against the coal. If we don't get somebody we going to, everybody be losing a hundred - So, you know what's interesting. I looked in McDowell It was very blue here, like 70% Democrat. And then, it just changed to hard red. - 'Cause of the policies, right? - Yeah. - So whatever policies support coal, you're gonna vote for that guy? - Yeah, Trump for the coal. - And Jim Justice - [Peter] Yeah. - And if we get somebody in there want to go windmills or gas, everybody be out of a job around here. - [Peter] Yeah, what would you - Well, if we didn't have 'cause they gotta make and you know, a lot of the And if we don't keep the coal, they ain't going to have no - [Peter] So you can't natural gas or oil, right. You have to make it with coal? - Yeah, you have to make it with coal. Something, you know, burn hot, coal. Natural gas ain't gonna make metal. - My dad was killed before I was born. - He was killed in March. And I was born in August. - [Peter] Oh, I'm sorry. Wow. - And my late husband, he but he worked what they When we were first married, he worked, they had cars. They called them cars then. They hold what, Jay, a ton or so? - Yeah, two tons. - They wasn't very high. - Okay. - And the coal was real low. And he would come home and tell about how he would lay down on his side and take a big shovel. And the shovel was about this wide. - [MAN] That's a number four shovel. - Take it and shovel that And they'd hold a ton to two ton of coal. And he got a dollar a car. - [Peter] Do you have internet out here? - Yeah. - Yes. I was told you didn't. - Part-time. (laughing) - [Peter] Part time. - Yeah, part-time internet. - Part-time. - [Peter] So not always, it, what? - It goes in and out. Sometimes when it goes, you know, out, it'll stay out for days - [Peter] Wow, so. - Like the telephone, sometimes don't they, Maye? - [Peter] The telephone - I don't have what they I just use cell phone. - [Peter] You get cell phone coverage now. - Yep. - [MAN] Turn left you - [Peter] This holler? So if I go up to the top, - Yeah, yeah. - You can travel all the way. - Go pass the graveyard, Go out, pass the graveyards Then when you get out you'll turn down the hill and when you get right at the - [Peter] So it's a circle? It's a circle? - Yes, it's a circle. - [Peter] I won't come back this way. I'll just keep going around. - If you want to, yeah. - [Peter] Okay, I think I'll explore. Why not? Thank you. - Would you like a cold bottle of water? - Yes, thank you, ma'am. Appreciate it. You married well. You married? - Yeah, I've been married. Let's see. My second marriage, I've been married now. - Here you go. - [Peter] Thank you so much. - How long I've been married, Maye? - Huh? - Say what? - How long I been married, 20 years? - Long time, Jay. - A long time. - [Peter] I said he married well. - Huh? - He married my ex - [Jay] Ex-daughter-in-law. - Wait, he's married to you? - He married my ex-daughter-in-law. And his brother is married, one of his brothers is married - [Jay] Yeah. (laughing) - And now you two are married? - No. - No, no. I thought you were husband and wife. I'm sorry. - [Maye] No, no, no, we just, I've known him all his life, so. - Yeah. Okay, gotcha. - Like I said, he married - Oh, okay. Gotcha. - I'll stop in, sit down and talk to her. You know, she don't get too you know, too much company anymore. Every time I brought my brothers, I'd stop and see her, stop down here and talk - Yeah. So you guys are all connected here. Everyone knows everybody. - Yeah. - [Peter] That's nice. You don't feel lonely? - If something goes the neighbors pitch in and help. They do what they can, you know? A death in the family or Somebody gets hurt or something. - [Peter] Pitch in, like Or they actually put help with - They help with money, They cook food, bring it in. - Okay. - [Peter] Even if it's different families. - Yeah. That's really special. - I know everybody. I have been down this - Yeah. - I've watched them grow up. Small kids, they played with my kids. - [Peter] Are you the - I guess. (laughing) (laid back country music) (laid back country music continues) - About 20 minutes into the holler, we have the Dunford Family Cemetery. Just passed some great people that came up to the door here. We were talking for a while. I just couldn't run the camera. Just a lot of that. But I'm getting some of it. I'm getting some of it for you guys. (laid back country music) (car door alert beeping) I'm sure this is super Family is absolutely everything here. Many generations living And in these hollers, some of these families came and have stayed. And I've been told some never leave. They actually like just Or maybe they get out a bit. But Charleston, the capitol Forget about DC, New York, California, those are like a different galaxy. Well-kept cemetery, Dunford Dial, another Dunford, Dunford, Dunford. And this is the Dunford row. And we're not gonna get a name on those. Gus Ciphers. Very short life of 18 years. (child crying) Don't know what's going on over there. (people faintly chattering in woods) All right, just had the coolest It's too bad, he didn't wanna be filmed. Him and his family were out He works as a manager. I believe it was a manager They cannot hire young people without a college education or anything for 80 to a He also stated, roughly 60% of kids under 20, so I'd say teen years are on drugs of some sort So I hate to put the but I like to capture the reality. And that's one man's opinion. And his experiences doesn't mean it's, you know, through and through fact, but that's how we learn on-the-ground perspective. Great guy, really cool guy. But a bit pessimistic about because of the drugs and the fact that kids He was 45, I think, and said, yeah, in his generation, it was everyone got to work and now he said this is gonna He also said there are prostitutes in some of these small towns. The dope heads don't mess with them 'cause everyone's packing. The lady (laughs), grandma of the holler, the dope heads don't mess with her &quot;'Cause she'll shoot 'em,&quot; he said. Just such a good dude. He was honest, straightforward, no BS. And that's what you get. Just going off these random roads. Deep, deep, deep in the (slow country music) (slow country music continues) (slow country music continues) Started to get a lot nicer But Virginia has from first impressions, a bit of a different feel. I gotta say, I miss West Virginia. Met such cool people in that state. (slow country music) (slow country music continues) Here in Grundy, Virginia. Been out of West Virginia Feels like a different world out here. The Walmart is the luxury edition. - Social media has absolutely an entire generation as far as the only thing they know how to do is play on the cellular phone. - So you were saying when I was inside, it's tough finding kids to work. They don't wanna work? - Very hard. Around these parts, I mean, a lot of it goes back to the morals that And I don't believe they're teaching them the responsibility of - Okay. I was thinking when I got out to the sticks of West it was gonna be a bit immune from that. Maybe I was a bit naive? I honestly thought it would be like kids on the streets, BMX bikes. - Society, in general, social media has definitely ruined. - Now I'm creating social media. But these are long form videos. - The kind of social if people look at it and understand it, maybe they'll let their kick rocks, play kickball. I mean- - Something besides just. - Except this one you have working. You said she's on it. - We have a very, we have very few kids that are 18 to 24 that actually get out and - You're holding this place up, huh? - I'm trying. - I'm trying. - He's doing social media. - [Peter] Is that okay? I'm doing a video on Appalachia. - Yeah, that's fine. - So how about the generation you came outta high school with, Shay? What percentage would you say are actually working class - At this very point? - At this very point. I would say maybe 50%. - 50? Because personally, I'm my best friend from high school is currently locked up - [Peter] Oh. - Just as you were saying a while ago. - [Peter] Yeah. - I've seen multiple people from my graduating class on drugs and I mean, just down a And these are people that - [Peter] Okay. - To like go further in life They're content with being - [Peter] What is it right now? Fentanyl? - Yes. Bad. - Bad. - Very bad. - Okay, so you're saying they're working their butts off. Oh, I don't want to call you a kid. Sorry, how old are you? 18. - I'm 23. 23, okay, young adult. 50% are working their butts off. 50% are junked out on drugs? - Yes. And a lot of these people, they have kids and their parents are raising their kids while they're out here just - They're junked out on drugs or mom and dad still taking care of them. - Taking care of them. - It's crazy that we're in the same state right now as Fairfax County That's where the power center is. That's the nerve center of the country. - Without a doubt. - [Peter] They're not really - An amazing story that - [Peter] Yeah. - I give people a second chance. Always have. - We have a girl here right She finished up 1,400 hours - From a drug pass. - From a drug situation. She's really straightened herself out and she is a role employee. - [Peter] 1,400 hours? - 1,400 hours. She would go to the courthouse 9 to 5. - Come straight here and - And then drive almost an hour home. - Yep. - So when you were in high school, was it hard to avoid the It was just like that crowd's over there and we're over here and I'm not, I have nothing to do with it? - Honestly, there was drug when I was in high school, Like it was not as easy to you know, like I was one of those people that nobody really talked to me. I mean, I just stayed to myself. I was kind of a A student. I done what I had to and I worked from the - [Peter] Yeah. - And I'm actually getting with my associate's degree - [Peter] Nice. - Been here since you 16. - Been here since I was 16. - Congrats. - [Peter] That's cool. - And it was kinda hard. - Now are you gonna pull over your manager when he is speeding now? He's gonna get pulled over a lot, I can tell you that much. - And it was harder for in my generation because which is completely nothing anymore. - You would be amazed that. - But as far- - What you can walk into - [Peter] And it's changed - Yes. The drugs are growing rapidly in this little small community. I hate to admit it. - And it got even worse after Covid. - It did because everybody and you had nothing else - [Man] Well, they were - Or at least that's what they thought. - And make more money at home than they were to get out and work. - Yeah. Yeah, this is true. - [Peter] So, all those nice houses coming into Grundy from West Virginia... Who are those people? Coal, old money stuff or...? Some of 'em and then your school teachers... They live in some of the nicer homes. - [Peter] So, this is a place can live in a nice home? - Oh yeah. - [MANAGER] You just got So how many people from do you know that are out here - Doing work? Actually working like you are. - I'd say probably around 25%. Like the majority of or living with their parents and they don't really care to work. I've tried getting them to tell 'em, you need to do something. Mom and dad ain't gonna be able You're not gonna always have people in your life to support you. You have to, you know, actually try to make a - [Peter] So checks, how - Well, see one of my buddies, he got a check because he had a seizure. So he gets $600 like every month. - [Peter] What was his seizure from? - They said it was from he had ever since he was And one of my friends, he has anxiety so he still lives with his parents. He still draws those checks. He doesn't try to work. - How old? - [Peter] Is it legitimate, the anxiety, or is it just like just to get the money? - Honestly, I can't tell because he does seem to Personally, I believe anxiety and it's just something But he's always kind of used it as like a crutch pretty much to get him out of taking tests, to get him out of participating - [Peter] Right. - And now- - I believe so. - Okay. - And. - So a lot of kids your - Unfortunately, yes. - Me, personally, I came from I will be the first in my I have to protect myself in order to keep getting further in life. When they put me on the anxiety it was just irritation all the time. Like every little thing, usually I'm a very patient person. I train people here on a daily. I have a child and everything. And I'm very cool, calm-tempered, like I'm not an angry person at all. And it just, it made me so like irritated like every little thing But once I quit taking it, like I had a couple days where I just did not wanna It was just horrible. But after about a week of And then I figured out, you know, different coping mechanisms I go on my hikes with my son, you know? We walk the dog, you know. - And we have a whole Like we've got lizards, So we kinda keep ourself - [Peter] So you're - Yep. - [Peter] And you found better therapy through natures, walks? - [Peter] How many people do you think are on medicine roughly? - Around here? - I would say quite a - What percentage? 65% of the people would be some form. And I mean, as far as I'd say well over half on it, alone. - But see what they do, is a lot, we had an employee that worked here. He would not let the It would make him do and then he'd go to the doctor and tell 'em it wasn't working and they'd put him on something else. And plus, he was doing other I don't know what. And it just, and I seen - 18-year-old kid. Ruined his life almost. (gentle country music) (gentle country music continues) - I just caught one like that. If you look on- - [Peter] You guys mind if I film this? Is that cool? - Let's see if I can hook into it. If I hook into it, you I gotta get down in here though. I don't think you'll be It's all mud. - [Peter] I'll get you from above. - Dude, I had one that under the bridge. And then that one that I - Yeah that one big one was like that. - Am I scaring the fish? - Sitting up here. but I believe I done scared 'em 'cause I hooked that big one - [Friend] Ah, you should have been here 10 minutes ago, man. - I missed the moment? - [Peter] Hey, so your you're a diesel mechanic. - [Peter] You're going - Yeah. Good to hear these stories and they're saying kids aren't - Nice. - [Peter] Nice. And you boys here from Indiana? - Yeah. - You work at Dairy Queen? - Manager? - [Peter] Nice. How old are you? - 16. - [Peter] (laughing) Are in Dairy Queen history? - Blew up in 1939. - What, the mine? - Killed like 50 people. It's still up there too. There's a carving on the mine They brought a bunch of Italian - [Peter] Oh, no way. - That says 1937 on it. The guy I know, Ed Talba, he's gonna start making a - Cool. So you guys really respect your miners? - Yes, sir. And then also we're really Matter of fact, during the Civil war, this county supplied units for, or supplied men for three units to go in the 34th Virginia Calvary, 10th Kentucky Calvary and the - You're into history. What really got me into it was my grandma telling me stories about my papa or about my third He was a Native, half Native He fought Gettysburg, That's what really got me into it. Private Andrew Cole Company C, 34th Virginia Calvary Witcher's Battalion. I got a grant along with history archeology up in Farmwell. - [Peter] They're paying your tuition? - Hmm hmm. - Yeah. And two years of it, - UK, London? - Sing for him. - Sing for him. (friend faintly chattering) - [Friend] &quot;Follow You To Virgie.&quot; - Yeah, I sing too. Of course, these boys had to bring it up. - [Peter] Let's hear it. Back before these calloused We used to sit up at the flats Actin' like we'd live forever Gettin' high and skippin' class Yeah, I reckon we were heathens But in her eyes, we were saints Now you're callin' all the boys home 'Cause heaven's angels So I will follow you to Virgie An although it hurts me so To lay to rest this mountain beauty That the Lord's called home And I can't see her up in glory I can see her through the pines - [Peter] Thanks, man. That was so cool. - When you're a bored kid in Appalachia, I mean, you get into I mean. - [Peter] So you either get or you get into drugs, right? - I mean, pretty much. It is an epidemic here. It's bad. And it's not so much the It's stuff like meth, I've seen my family destroyed by it. I've seen other people's My stepfather was on the meth real bad. - He's no longer with us 'cause- - [Peter] I'm sorry, man. - But I want to show people that Appalachia is not, that we are more than just - [Peter] Yeah. - I mean, we have history here that spans, if you're counting the it spans about a thousand years. - [Peter] Right. - We have so much more to offer, the culture, the music, the people. The people are just great. I agree. - I mean, folks here will help anyone. It doesn't matter who you are. That's what I love about it here is that no matter what your background is, no matter where you come from, they'll help you. - If you're a good person, they will help you. And yeah, sometimes we get a little rowdy, sometimes we get a little reckless. But you know, just good-hearted people. - So what do you think - (sighs) Better leadership, I think. Pride. Not a lot of folks are - They're not proud here? I thought Appalachian - Well, the older generation is, but a lot of the younger they've kind of lost - [Peter] Why do you - Because people's never taught them. People's never taught how resilient they actually are, you know? - [Peter] Right. - Because our ancestors, at I'm a direct descendant of Viking kings. All the kings in southwest Virginia is descended from Bjorn Ironside. First Keene in America was a guy named Jeron Sviness Bjornson. He got the last name Keene given to him 'cause he And he was the bastard son of a noble from the house of Munso. - [Peter] Hmm hmm. - And he came to Pennsylvania in the 1620s and his descendants actually moved South. His great-grandson, ended up founding Keene Mountain. And he was a soldier in I mean, badass people, very badass people. - [Peter] Makes you proud to - Yeah. (footsteps rapidly pounding) - That was- - [Peter] That was allowed, I got this. - Oh, my cord. (friends faintly chattering) - [Friend] He got off. I had to run down and get my (indistinct). I just hooked into a giant and lost him! I lost him. - You lost him again! - The Romans just copied Committed a little different. - [Peter] Who are you a bigger fan of? The Romans or the Greeks? - Oh Greeks, a hundred percent. I kind of do have a little bit of beef against the Romans. - [Peter] You have beef A little bit. - Because what they did not just Germanics but the Celts too. Mass genocide, man. They got 'em back. Special Battle of the You know the whole story of Arminius? - You are way more up on - Arminius was a Germanic But he defected and was a general for Led them into the Black Forest, set trees ablaze, cut 'em down, divided up the legionaries. It was a bloodbath. General Varus was killed, too. - [Peter] Oh. - And it also confused the Romans 'cause Arminius was still Actually if you go to Munich, there's a statue of Arminius, Me and my camp, the Lieutenant Colonel of the Sons of Confederate Veterans, we put up the first confederate last year, at my family's cemetery. It was at the grave and my fourth great grandmother, and her husband died during in Highland County, Virginia. - So, okay, for many people, when they hear confederate, all they think of is racism immediately. - Nah, man. - What are your thoughts on that, like Do you have friends from - Oh yeah, oh yeah. I don't have problem with anybody. My fourth was a Black man who fought His name was private Nathaniel Hawthorne. And he was a sharp shooter for the 37th Virginia Racism confuses me. It really does. Simply because of the fact that we all come from the same place. First evidence of humanity about two million years ago. That's where humanity come from. We are all humans. That's why racism, I think kind of bullshit. You know, it's made to divide people. It's made to tear people down. - I didn't get my first cell I woke up at daylight, went with my papa, we went, we worked in the garden. When it come hay time, we mowed, tethered, raked all the hay. I threw hay bales since I've pushed around four bales a hay rolls. They're like that big around. I rolled 'em around. I got a dirt bike one time. Messed the wheel up on it. I had to have a whole new chain, had to have a carburetor, everything. Dad looked at me and it was because he wanted and work for what I got And I had to go out, I weeded and then I fixed my motorcycle with the money I made. Anything I've ever had, my dad He paid half on my first vehicle. That's all he done. From now on, I've probably had, I'm 18 and I've probably had 40 vehicles. - 40? - Four, zero? I'd fix 'em up and sell 'em. You can ask Zach. That's all I've ever done. - Is work on vehicles. I could take his truck right here, take the motor and and tomorrow day, have - [Peter] So you're saying - No, they don't. Some of them do, now, don't get me wrong. - 50/50? Because nowadays, it's like And I guess that's just - Not only that, but a lot of people around They get checks for social security. And that's how the youth They're brought up that, okay, so my mom and dad live this way, so, they probably can live this way- - I can live that way, you know? That's what they think, okay. - [Peter] But you guys - No. My mom- - I watched this man, I watched this boy right They completely redone that was from what? 19 or 1800s? - Yeah, my house was built 1910. - And I've watched him This man can build anything outta wood, make you tables, make you He's a woodwork guy. - But now I'm not gonna lie to you. Schooling, you put a book in I'm in college for six months right now. One of my welding I get my class A CDLs. And then as soon as I'm done with that, I go straight to work. - And you're really set because less people you're I think, right. - I think that I'm doing that's the only thing that I know. And I lived paycheck That's how it went. It wasn't because dad and It was because my dad was and he couldn't hardly walk. But I want more for my I'm not gonna give 'em everything. They're still gonna Like I didn't go on my first vacation, like an actual vacation, like let's say to the wilderness till I was with my best friend. And I earned the money to pay for it because dad, he couldn't walk around the way that everybody else did. And then I've carried him from set him in his truck and all the way back in the house because he was on a cane. But besides all that, there's kids here that work and they work their high-end off, but then there's them that it's because of the Why would you give a when he's putting all of that is tearing this state down? Why would you do that? Knowing that they are a drug addict? - [Peter] So why do you think they do it? - I know at least 20 people that have to go to the methadone clinic every other week just because they're so hooked and they draw social security. - All right, guys. Kentucky, 10 minutes that way. But we're not gonna make it What an amazing adventure, through the far most You can see how important coal is. It's sort of the center point It's beautiful. The people are fantastic, as far as everyone I met today. And some didn't want to get on camera, understandably so. But you saw some of them on And drugs, obviously, I mean, that's everywhere in the country, going up, but I think it's in this region. Tomorrow, I'm meeting up coal miner in Kentucky. That'll be the next video. And thanks for coming (light banjo music) (light banjo music continues)