The Chernobyl accident the - physics clearly history - but why did it happen? Today I'll show Nuclear Physics. I'll Implement that in code and I'll use the model to explain and redo the same and you'll be able to see how the reactor responds But let's start with the basics. In any nuclear and keep it balanced there - the power from the then drives a turbine to generate power. Which video about critical mass, where simulate a nuclear deeper details about fission. But don't worry I'll start building up the model. so we'll be able to uses uranium of the isotope 235. This element which is when the element absorbs a neutron. The lighter daughter elements, and release three not important for the bigger picture, so not to of showing two daughter elements, I'll simply or not. Blue for uranium235, Gray if it isn't. We fire a single neutron. We just created a nuclear reactor, although we want it a bit more controlled different isotopes of uranium in the fuel and only This is how the metal is extracted from the ground extremely expensive, but also way too dangerous. fissionable material, the reaction seems way more up to some amount of reactions per second, and once loose neutron on average only hits a single to the model before continuing, these are just for in actual reactors. The first thing I want to add only have around a thousand simulated nuclei, enriched uranium. The second thing I want to add neutron emission. This is when a radioactive occurring process. Let's give this property to all the simulation: control rods. I want to simulate accident the R.B.M.K reactor which apparently is Kettle. The first thing I want to add is control neutrons and just to state the obvious you can rods, and you can heat up a reactor (Red), by We don't have everything yet to fully simulate the we have. It's a very basic nuclear reactor model. megawatts, But I'll just count the number of that number on top here. I've coded some very Every second control rod will go up, if there's above 40, the control rods will be inserted control rods, I'm able to increase reactivity decrease the reactivity. Building the simulation: concept to the model. As I briefly mentioned, the drives a turbine. I'll depict water as a small neutron. Whenever a neutron scatter with water, water. In the model, let's add whenever a neutron water is cold I'm coloring it blue. And then I also want to add: when the water gets too hot, and can no longer absorb neutrons. In my model water cools off it condensates and reappears. than last time. The front of the burst is mostly the backside can easily propagate without being temperature exchange between each water block, but water reappears. So for our reactor that means down. Whereas heating up the water will lead up even further. Reactors with this property are that in action. From the example before with the control rods, even up further because the water control rods keep the reactivity down to 40 evaporate the water .. For now.. You'll have to wait Building the simulation: Xenon. For this chapter that much. After absorbing a neutron, at a later the isotope Xenon 135 I'll denote Xenon with the has the property to strongly absorb neutrons. Once for the element to absorb a neutron. This is what the model again with the Xenon property. You'll we must raise the control rods even further Building the simulation: moderation. Last nuclei they fly out with around 5% the speed Now neutrons sent out from nuclei are fast. I will speed is way too fast for fission absorption. It low then. This is called the nuclear cross-section. reaction. When they are going fast I'll set the first use the so-called moderator: something kinetic energy. In the R.B.M.K reactor all fuel In the model I'll depict a moderator as a white moderator, the neutrons are no longer too fast basically just means slow neutrons. Let's have an interaction chance of 100% when the neutrons with the moderator we will just set them to fly I'll run the model, without control rods, water or and moderators slowly being inserted. Hopefully nuclear cross section. This is yet another means neutrons will have a much lower chance of more neutrons will have a high probability together. A lot is going on so for this model Now we have everything we need to recreate events, as in the control room. Here's the first The simulation I'm showing right now is showing the accident. It was running at around 50% power to being burned off just as quickly it was being power corresponds to 40 active neutrons, which is To illustrate the states we just saw here and according to the events. Event one reactor at 50%. On this plot here I'll show how many of in the reactor: the water was stable cooling the plot how much Xenon was present: not much. Day continue the simulation from where we stopped happened then? A safety test was scheduled later reduced to around 30% power. We can pretend 30% the automatic control rod to try and hit this still being generated from a delayed reaction, 30% power burns the Xenon away. Let's see the state around 30%. Control rods were inserted in order some reason they also increased the water flow even further up. However the lower power means Xenon away. Day of the accident: Event 3: power drop. because of the high Xenon buildup we are reaching reach 20 active neutrons. But in my simulation high Xenon buildup. This is me trying to show you This is the 1% unexpected power drop I'm trying So the power level is plummeted to 1% they course, the reactor was simply stalling because the Xenon poison continually building up from Day of the accident: event 4: power up attempted. ignored, automatic control of the control rods reactor. They were only able to get the reactor up control rods. Notice the control rods are raised So the state is 7% power. All control rods Xenon keeps building up from the delayed reaction. The reactor was still stuck at 7% power. The computer off the computer instead. They could not get the test. Pretty much all control rods are still re-circulation pumps temporarily. To reflect this water to cool off much slower. The effect is Xenon to burn off. And this is a positive feedback ever more s to burn away. Right so the reactor rods are still raised, water is boiling away The day of the accident: Event 6: Scram. the control rods actually had graphite displaces, Commonly said &quot;graphite tips&quot;. So actually this this instead. Now I'll add that to the simulation. changes. Let's pause the simulation. Suddenly with increases unexpectedly fast in the reactor, and the AKA AZ-5. A safety switch. The scram button's job is to as possible. It was a lifeline the operators always the test. Anyway pressing this scram button it they are slow. The operator didn't know what they more stopping power than the accelerating bottom state, that the bottom had much much stronger power. As a result the scram actually increased and graphite displacers were stuck. Control rods difference. Let's just quickly see the states had unexpectedly risen a lot. Control rods were set sudden all the water flash boils, away and all of there's nothing to stop the reactor. The reactor gas and no brakes. Let's see that. Here you see extremely heavy metal rods, fuel rods jumping up and down in the sockets, due to the power was over 100,000% its design not hold that together. Explosion occurred. So went wrong and also learned a little Nuclear and the incredibly dangerous design of the factors that also played a role which we didn't team the lack of any safety culture the ability safety the Soviet Union and the corrupt system with the feeling that nuclear reactors are unsafe reactor design exists for example ones with the to blow up.. I could simulate that for you one of this horrible accident, nuclear reactors are Thank you for watching :)