So guys, some time back, I'd created a video which was all about the Pirc defense. This video now &amp; you guys really liked it. Now this Pirc white starts with the move, pawn to e4. But or the English opening or say knight to f3? today, I'll show you the King's Indian opening if you follow this video till the end, you'll will help you get into dominant middlegame thank BetterHelp for sponsoring this video. Basically, this is what it is - You bring castle &amp; make your king safe. It's a solid black. However, there is one thing you need and you bring out the knight, he can simply to deal with. That's why, after e4, to stop which is the Pirc Defense. And as we that, so do check it out. Now generally, the g6, knight c3, bishop g7, and now comes e4. but this is the standard position. Remember, to attack the knight. So the moment he goes e4, arrive at the same setup. In the King's Indian in the Pirc defense, this pawn is generally not Okay, now in the King's Indian, white could play moves shown on the board. We'll try to learn all to keep it as simple as possible, so that you can so let's start with the most common classical castle, and white's main move here is bishop if you review all the famous games by Kasparov, most preferred move is e5 because they want to give you another option. But first let's look at has 2 attackers, but black has only 1 defender. and you take back, and if he captures with the attack on the knight. So generally, its better you collect the pawn &amp; then the knight. So in this position, e5 is perfectly fine to play. this pawn right away, white can first exchange the bishop to g5. Now the main threat is knight to d5, because of the pin &amp; that's why this variation can you can play something like rook e8, and a better option. In this position, instead of the knight to a6. And after white castles, then you this knight here &amp; now if he goes for the exchange bishop g5 isn't that much of a threat anymore. takes, takes, this knight d5 move is not that by the knight. So you can simply go back or play So basically, this exchange variation is kind that's not the only benefit of playing knight a6. play and that is d5. Now we know that knights on white has given up the control of this square, we this, whenever you get the chance, relocate ideas of playing the classical king's Indian is we attack on the kingside &amp; white looks to advance some material advantage at best. But if you are you'll most likely just checkmate the white play the King's Indian as black. Now by getting so he'll have to defend it. And now as I told call this the Bayonet variation &amp; this is a good like to face this. But by playing knight a6 and to prevent white from attacking with b4. We play apply pressure on the queenside. And therefore, we him aggressively with full force. Even if you can simply push forward. And after b4, we in this position, most probably, you will see he's trying to get rid of our knight. But you all these pawns are on the light squares, so should not exchange, but even if he does, that's so that after the exchange, you solidify the him to advance. On the other side, you can simply In this position, even if he plays bishop g5, just plan that we saw earlier. Now I don't want to general strategy, lock down the center, maneuver and follow up with all your pieces behind them some variations, you can also do a rook lift like rook to attack along the kingside. Now on similar after c4, g6, knight c3, bishop g7, bishop e2 - just going to castle, and then bishop g5 - and we'll use the same approach as we saw in the its easier for you to remember. So first knight about d takes on e5 because after takes, takes, you have this pin, you can simply play rook d6 defended, this pawn is defended, you're attacking h6. So this is something white would not he will lock down the center with d5. And as you control of this square, so we straightaway so he defends with f3. Not only this, he is also So basically, white is saying, "I know you're kingside. But this time, I'll take control, I'll we can still play on the queenside &amp; break the let him kick our knight so we'll play a5. And our plan will be to open up the queenside &amp; there is a secret little trap where if he tries Look, we won't take the bishop, instead we have pawn takes, we have the beautiful, queen h4 check. position for black. So, that was the Averbakh to show you. But before that, I would like to Guys, just like an intense chess game, life stressful or anxious situation, I try to distract not in your control. That's when you need the help your mental health. Finding the right therapist makes it very easy for you. Well, BetterHelp is an at your own convenience. It's online, it's remote matched to a suitable professional therapist. along with that therapist, you can even switch BetterHelp wants to make therapy more affordable happy &amp; healthy life. Its really easy to sign BetterHelp.com/ChessTalk , that's better-h-e-l-p &amp; month. Link is in the description box below, the Classical lines &amp; the Averbakh variation of variation, which starts with the move f3. Now the out the bishop, bring out the queen, castle on the for us to castle on the kingside, so that he can we ever play e5, he will close down the center in mind, let's look at what we need to do as black. but let me show you how I like to go about it. you play c5, white locks down the center, you and that's how we end up in a modern Benoni type to get into because the main advantage of going other variations which I'll show you in a while. a very solid position against the Samisch. main plans &amp; you can play this very well in your you will see that white has a pawn majority on queenside. So more often than not, both sides are sides. So the key ideas for black are to play we cannot generate enough play on the queenside, after moving the knight. Another thing you need to between these knights. Look, this white knight to develop on very awkward squares. But the best f4 because it defends this e4 pawn. And also, the knight on g4. Because at any point, if white plays it dominates the dark squares. So knight on f2 is we randomly play knight to e7 which is not that and after knight e5, he drops back to f2. Whereas, development move like rook to e8, that usually some really unusual squares, from where it can't fun game to play as black. You can exploit both creativity. Therefore, in this position, you play c5. Now you might wonder what if he takes queen takes, rook takes, bishop takes, although as black. You can manuever your knights &amp; utilize the other hand, white is generally struggling to quick sideline I want to show you in the Samisch can choose to maintain the tension. So knight e2, once again, we have got a beautiful layout. Here b5 is coming. So, its again good to play as black. transpose into one of the earlier variations &amp; we discussed. So now that we've understood how to Samisch, it makes perfect sense to follow the which starts with the move pawn to f4. White is So after castles, knight f3, we again opt for c5 for us to remember. Eventually, after takes, pawn structure. The move orders could be a little strategy. So one of the key concepts of this kind bishop for this knight, because the pawn structure And since we've got less room to work with, that allows better piece co-ordination between here on c8, you can yourself feel how awkward that I want to emphasise. Firstly, you should look to a check on this e5 break. Secondly, you need to be denied by the simple pawn move, a4. Also, you your rooks. And last but not the least, we often have the plan of pushing c4, getting the on the other hand, will try to stop you from doing just keep all these plans in mind. Now let's move is when white goes for the fianchetto variation. to keep it consistent, we'll go for the same setup c5, but before that, I would like to play knight place the knight on a5, and that's really useful. and this knight holds a really good grip on the also stops white from any queenside advancements very weak. And in general, it also supports our b5, e6, the plans are all the same, its just So basically, after knight c6, if he attacks he might try to delay the move, d5. He'll make a force things, you try do something different. But say he castles, don't commit your knight, just your other main moves like a6, b5. Basically, expansion. Let's say he plays e4, again, we can when he pushes d5, that's when you move the at the very same setup that you are comfortable you can even sacrifice a pawn. And after bishop aggressive play on the queenside. So that's the King's Indian using similar types of setups. more confident playing this opening. Alright, so turn &amp; you need to find the best move for white. many of you get this right. Guys, do Subscribe