Hi, this is Pastor Bob Yandian. Welcome to Student of the Word. We're going to take a couple of talk about the fear that's going on today among Christians. And the Christians are fearing world when we don't need to. Jesus said, look up. Your redemption is close. We're going to talk We're going to talk about We're going to talk about We're going to talk But best of all, we're going to to destroy him. Good things. Let's go to the Word For more than 40 years, Bob of the Bible, making seemingly complicated doctrine Grab your Bible and study the Hi. Welcome again to student of the word with Glad to have you here today, Man, I'll tell you what, if of God and know the Word of all the things that are coming. In fact, Jesus even warned He said, when you see these look up. Your redemption is close and things that are The reason why is we're going to go up in the Some believe that that's me. I'm part of that group that believes in the To me, it's it's it's so everything you don't understand to, about the time, the Antichrist, and the fact that us that Antichrist cannot even is hindering is removed. And that's the church we As long as one Christian Antichrist who is here probably position as the ruler of the He's Antichrist, but he's And so he's going to come and thing, the liberator, He's going to bring All the different things that for so long. He's going to win the hearts then he's going to finally the tribulation when he goes Jerusalem and presents himself That's when the Bible talks glove and just show himself as While he's been presenting present himself the other. And that's when the And that's when people are that time of the tribulation. But for us to understand it, I simply want to A better understanding What when people say, Well, listen, what knock especially knowledge And so today we're going to be understanding of the Antichrist. I believe he's here already There's so many things going on a one world government, which is just really That's where the And they're looking for a world leader that can take And he's here, but he really So I think he'll be recognized. You know, at the time we're and the world will look to this to take that throne. I believe the system We're seeing the system set up for someone. And if we have a one world world leader, and they're charisma and power and all the think of a world leader would want to have, and He'll gladly take that the world and take it from come and show himself, keep And if he can do that, then But he will not He will not cause the word not to be literally destroyed Let's turn to John chapter turning there, if you're I'm Bobby. Andy and I pastored for 33 years and had a And now for the past over ten making television I call it student of the word, I'm a teacher, all right? And I believe a pastor Also, he's called pastor And so the teaching of And I love being with And that's why I called this the word, you're the student. I'm teaching you And I have lots of books, Antichrist, I have a book called Understanding And part of understanding the there's going to be a false of which Jesus Christ will come word of his mouth. He's going to open up his So this is going to We're going to be learning. It might end today. It might, you know, squeak But we'll see in John chapter says, I have come in my receive me. If another will come in his This is the contrast between And he points out there's And the Greek word here for in his own name. The Greek word here is allos, which means another He's going to come in He's going to come He's going to operate in signs Lots of things are going to Jesus Christ. And so he just simply says, but name, you're going In other words, I have come and you've rejected false one coming. You'll perceive him. And so Antichrist will be a He's not a person of religion. He's going to come in with religious person. In fact, he's not even going to be that much of He'll be a man, like I said, a religious leader. He will come as another, the same kind, Israel's Second Thessalonians chapter why he's coming his purpose showing himself that he is God. I mean, how much more And Satan. This is he's he's thinking He is Satan's puppet. And what he's showing And so he's going to operate in But the Bible calls them miracles, saying things that But again, there's people Jesus came and signs and Many believed on him, but many The religious crowd's going to not only referring to signs and over Israel, but also he's nation of Israel. He's going to be a Jew. It comes back to this. A lot of people have said certain, you know, people in know, leaning extremely themselves to be so anti-church And people said, well, this And so they begin to call them by, you know, call But the Bible says he can't even be revealed We will not know who he is. Now we'll get to heaven, And because we're gone, Then we'll see that. But one thing we have to is going to come with signs and comes to have rulership over Messiah and he comes to be you know, the Messiah come into to be a Jew. Do you understand that the the going to fulfill as many coming in, and he's going to Israel, and that leadership But he also has to be born He has to be a Jew. If he is a Jew, he must Now, scholars for years I mean, you know, because one of the 12 tribes, and he's of Israel. So again, he has to be a Jew. And again, some believe he's going to come from The reason why is Genesis says that Dan shall judge his people as one of the Dan shall be a serpent, by the bites the horse's heels, so that its rider shall This is Genesis 49, Notice again he shall judge his people as one of the And then Dan will end up being by the path that bites The rider shall fall backwards. And we have here again that Dan Jacob cursed. He had 12 of them, and But this one he cursed. His tribe would bring a And Dan is the only tribe of revelation chapter seven, Now we stop right there, and saying is, well, he has to And I thought that too. Whenever I studied this, I thought, well, of And I'd teach it. And people go, yeah, yeah, yeah. Until one day I Antichrist. If he's going fulfill scripture, he's got to because the Bible talks about Jesus coming from To imitate Jesus, Antichrist as Jesus, which is Jesus is So he can persuade the Jewish He'll be received by the Jews. So he must be a Jew. Scripture says Messiah will come from Judah and rule Israel. And Herod requested from the wise men came in and the wise that is born King of the Jews. Now that puts shock through born king of the Jews, He literally by force took the throne from the And he came in and took And when these guys came in, hundreds of miles away, taking Jerusalem, and And when they get You know what? We don't know. We follow the star all this which town he's And they decided, well, I guess let's go find somebody They should know it. And they thought of And if anybody should And they went in there and this born king of the Jews. And Herod just went, there's I was not born king of the Jews. He wasn't saying this out loud, but fear must have And so he requested that the him what the Bible said. Matthew chapter two and verse in Bethlehem of Judea, for thus but you, Bethlehem, in the land among the rulers of Judah. For out of you shall come a people Israel. So he's saying here he's going means that's the tribe that Also, not only the city. So Jacob prophesied And in Genesis 49 and verse He said in Genesis 4910 as he sons, and again he took one of you know what had happened tribe of Dan, and he But here's what it says in his offspring. From that time on, the scepter In other words, he'll be He's going to be forever, and him will be Jesus The scepter shall not depart between his feet. He says, in the tribe of Judah coming out between the feet, babies born, and they're all going to be in There will not be a On the King, on the throne, of Judah. So the scepter, that's the from Judah from now on. And every child that's born will be a lawgiver coming out. And until Shiloh comes, he's going to come out Shiloh is a name for Jesus It says, Until Shiloh comes into him, the people He's going to take He's also going to take This will be the millennial Christ himself. So again, we come back to it the tribe of Judah. And again, because of How could he come and come from distinctly says that the Jesus has already come. He already came from He already was in this earth. He went. He died for us. He took our sins upon him. And when he died on the cross, eventually went to heaven and we come back after the break. And you can find out how you We'll look into titles for Understanding the End Times. One of the most incredible and Word of God, will bring us we live. The Bible says we are to another with the knowledge of In understanding the end times, thorough and exciting study these times in which we live. Topics include the seven of the mystery, the rapture of of Christ, Daniel's 70 weeks, tribulation, the Second Coming, Lord Jesus Christ. To order understanding the end Theology simplified is a biblical truth. Basic doctrines are not difficult, but They often become disguised as words, but the Pastor Bob makes complex theological concepts Eight crucial doctrines of the redemption, justification, predestination, election, propitiation, and glorification. These eight precepts are essential for all Come to light as you read, understanding of the finished To order theology Simplified. Visit our website Bob Yandian Ministries is the Word of God. Because of your generosity and ministry is able to You will never know until you receive Jesus, were filled found God's will for their life through your If you would like to become a our website at bobyandian.com Thank you. Welcome back. I want to keep on going on what we're talking about Let's talk about And so as a man, he has many the New Testament. Second Thessalonians chapter titles and there's five of them mentioned here all There's even more after that. But there's five given we're going to comment on. First of all, it's The man of sin refers to that embodiment of sin. Second of all, he's called We're going to come back to He's called the Thirdly, he's called he who This guy is sold on himself, The next one is the wicked one, the spirit of his mouth. And then finally, he whose coming is after the In other words, as Jesus Antichrist is going to So what do we have here? Satan is an imitator of God. He wants to be. In fact, he's called the God of this world and he He has worked at being God But you know, the thing about dumb about Satan, Every time he loses. He keeps thinking, maybe next next time. If I do it this way and listen. I mean, he's tried time after the end. And he's right now in this Christ went into heaven. And God simply said, even when already been judged. It's going to come to pass. The sentence has been passed, but he hasn't gone This is the time period between what you're sentenced to and you actually go to prison, that hell for a thousand years Jesus Christ. So again, those are the titles he who opposes and exalts the Lord will consume with He's called the wicked one. And he whose coming is Just as Satan has a called Antichrist, God has a called Christ. And so Satan tries to imitate try to imitate Jesus And this is what they're going literally many of them by thousands and millions are accept Antichrist But we come back to this if, imitate God, what is Satan? He is an offspring of God. God formed him. God made him. God created him. He is God's creation. He wasn't created evil. One day iniquity You have said in your heart, I stars of heaven. I will exalt my And it says that Satan himself is coming as an imitator of God. Who does that make? Antichrist the imitator And so the point of it is, just Antichrist will be Antichrist will be He will come in the image Israel's Messiah, and come Listen to this. He will be the male child of the offspring of If he's going to imitate Jesus the offspring of a woman. Now you say, how Genesis chapter six, verses fallen angels who were here number of angels rebelled with against God, and God gave all either stay with him Now you often say, well, what stay with you decides later on What if some of those that went they've made a mistake and they I think it was a God said, look, here it is. I want you to choose. If you choose to go with If you choose to be with me, This is a one time choice infers a third of the angels stayed with God and the ones who fell and came to this earth. Listen, angels are not women. Angels are men. They're seen throughout And whenever they are seen, homosexuals wanted to have That's the that's the godly at that time in the Old And so we have it there. At that time, Abraham was one So again, in Genesis chapter fallen angels had sex with children that were giants. They were strong And so what we have here is image of Jesus Christ himself, tribe of Judah, He will be a woman brings a whole lot of Rosemary's baby brings a whole movie series called The Omen, was practicing setting himself the world, literally came as an We find this has happened Those fallen angels who had children are now in a place under the earth called Tartarus. And we're told the reason why sexual relations. This is a very, very, um, I guess you could say that this is under protest. I mean, many, many ministers And they say that demons are the fallen angels, Okay? Demons literally here in this earth are They don't have the They're ugly creatures. When anybody ever sees a demon, fallen angel. But the fallen angels. Really? There's no fallen Except for one. And that is Lucifer. Satan himself. He is still here, and one day itself for a thousand years. And after that, listen, he's think if I did it this way And as soon as he's released fallen angels are released for at the end of the millennium, they're going to Totally. And this time Satan permanent prison, and that will forever, along with all the the demons, and along with generations past, Right now, they're all in That's hell is a waiting place, lake of fire. So it comes back to this when proof of this in the Bible that know, it was the offspring of offspring of Satan and a woman. Yes. Antichrist is called Perdition is a title for Satan. And notice he's called The word son means offspring. Male offspring. That's the word. Second Thessalonians chapter the son of perdition. So again we come back to it. He's an imitator of Jesus imitator of God. And this was God's plan. So to put His Son in this into this earth, to bring course, Satan wants to do it this earth. Antichrist, like Jesus, will be during the tribulation. Revelation chapter 13 and verse beast who was wounded The word for wounded is the word means a deadly wound. And this is where again, Bible imitation of what It says, make an image to the wounded by the sword, God the father brings Antichrist's end and Jesus rule. Later on Psalm 110 verse one sit at my right hand until I make your enemies Part of those enemies that resting place for When Antichrist finally comes destroys him in this earth, and to Christ is cast off the earth. All fallen angels that are will be cast under the All unbelievers will be there. Satan will be there for a the millennial reign. Interesting. During the going to be sin. Well, how could that possibly sitting on the throne and perfect world and a perfect How could it possibly be that and be caught and go into sin, of the tribulation who live Bible says, all those who will beast and they still live over into the millennium. They'll come in, they'll They will not have They will be bodies, but longevity will be Think about this. If everybody coming in the bodies, how can the Scripture will be given to the people tribulation or into the tribulation, into They survived. And of course, they're now on the earth and they We in resurrection bodies So as is brought out in this children born during that time Lord and Savior by the A thousand years later, the come an army. Satan is going to be He's going to round up this hundreds upon hundreds And the Bible describes it like to come against Jesus Jesus Christ came back and tribulation and stomped on the But God the Father is going to back and just end this It's over, and the next thing the great White Throne all demons, all fallen angels, out of that at the end of it, and forever. The lake of fire. I don't know I know that hell That's the waiting place And the people that stand there the lake of fire. The only thing I can think torment, such a place of heaven itself, where God is, is it's got to be at the farthest, farthest farthest It could possibly be away probably one of the loneliest And there people will be in Say, how could God Is because there is nothing banished from God. Nothing. There's And so when these people reject whatever Satan suffers. See, when I got born If I don't get born again, I is Satan himself. He's the he is the leader. He is the basically the called sinning and those that have rejected Jesus as They stay with Satan because And of course they come in so they'll be cast into the thousands of years, All that time, we'll take this this into tomorrow. And again, the book that understanding the End Times. This has been one of It's one of the It's lasted through the years. Say, well, how come all those pulled off the shelf and don't predicted when Jesus My whole thing is, if Jesus back, how could Bob So I don't put in there how to come back. So again, order your book and I will see you again on You can order resources, become articles and podcasts by bobyandian.com, join our devotions and the If you would like to contact bobyandian.com and click on Use the address on your screen. Thank you for watching We'll see you next time on student of the word