- So some of you might remember that in the late 2000s, &quot;Twilight&quot; mania dominated pop culture. A lot of books, shows, and movies came out that were trying to capitalize on the supernatural teen romance trend. All monsters were fair game, but the gutsiest production The first &quot;Twilight&quot; and &quot;The Vampire Diaries&quot; Like Twilight, &quot;The Vampire Diaries&quot; is based on a book series, this one written by L. J. Smith. But the books are not actually they came out like a decade before. Any similarities you might or they stem from the and genres have tropes. My first experience with is that my friend Bailey with a 103 degree fever And she was keeping me this would be the only way to get me to start watching this show. It turns out with &quot;Vampire Diaries,&quot; it doesn't matter if you're delirious, you're still going to have a So anyway, after this, an entire summer binging I say the whole show, what I actually mean around four seasons, and there are eight. It felt really long, but yeah, before we decided it But for the purposes of this I am a &quot;Vampire Diaries&quot; expert. I just wanna give like a It's like a travel log, but a show. The good, the stupid, So this vid is intended for people who haven't seen &quot;Vampire Diaries&quot; and people who have alike. And since this is YouTube, I have organized my thoughts And before we proceed, I that my shorthand name The real acronym is TVD, but I call it VPD, &quot;Vampire Diaries.&quot; And you're just gonna have Okay, here we go. Part one, the love triangle. I was going to do a section called like &quot;the story&quot; or &quot;the premise.&quot; And then when I was writing this out, I realized that the love Twilight had Team Edward and Team Jacob and &quot;The Vampire Diaries&quot; No, &quot;The Vampire Diaries&quot; had Again, this similarity is a coincidence. Love triangles are very Unlike in Twilight, both of They're also brothers, which I hate love triangles as a plot device, but usually the two men are just adversaries. So the idea of having them be brothers and having a relationship I think makes it a lot more interesting. At the beginning of the series, Damon and Stefan are just total it becomes clear that they They are bronemies. Just sounds like Bronies. So love interest number one is Stefan. They obviously cast and styled of Robert Pattinson in Twilight. Just look at his hair and - How old are you? - 17. - How long have you been 17? - Wait, how long have you... - I've been 17 years old since 1864. - Stefan is the good boy vampire. He's also extremely boring. Just a handsome brick of styrofoam. The most nuance they a vampire allegory for alcoholism. Like Edward Cullen, Stefan only drinks animal blood, but we find out the reason he does that is because he cannot drink Most vampires can, but Stefan can't. And if he has even a little bit of it he goes all jittery and starts craving it, which since he's a vampire - You don't get it. I can't stop, Elena! I'm a Ripper, a Ripper doesn't stop! And when that clock ticks down, I'm going to have to feed on you. - I thought this was a pretty cool idea. Obviously, if you're looking at the alcoholism parallel, the fact that it makes him a crazed murder is a little insensitive, It's not supposed to be one-one. Also, in Twilight, it's that the Cullens only drink animal blood, but for the newer they also steal blood and that's portrayed as like Yeah, guys, I'm sure they Stefan drinks, animal blood for a reason that not only makes sense, but also adds something to his character. Also, he robs the local blood bank when he's struggling with his addiction and it's portrayed as like a really bad - He has a fridge full of stolen blood bank - Oh my God. - Anyway, I said this thing they did with Stefan. So it's important to note they just completely forgot about it. You even see him drinking like it's no big deal. Love interest number two is Damon. He is obviously the bad boy alternative. He gets more interesting I think the actor they got I mean, after enough that he has one face he makes to punctuate every single one-liner. I can't think of a way to describe it other than &quot;Damon's eyebrow face&quot; A very eyebrow heavy performance, but I appreciate that he reads his lines in a way other than the most obvious way to read them every single time, which is honestly a rarity in CW acting. In later seasons, he actually starts to Like some of his line reads - It doesn't sound crazy. It is crazy. Stop defending me! The guys' a werewolf. He'd kill - If you were a racer, you'd but you're not. - Oh, also, I'm pretty sure So I'm sure a lot of you were very angry that I just called him the but I didn't watch &quot;Lost&quot; so you'll have to take me Anyway, Damon was the And you could also tell by the way he was written that Let's just put a pin in that. Oh, it's a bulletin board. I can literally do that. I just dropped one and I can't find it. So that'll be fun later. Our heroine Elena is a high They all look comically too old to be the ages they play. - I've got my ring. I No spells necessary. - Gee, thanks. You 16 year old child. - It's not fair, you're 16 years old. You shouldn't have to live like this. - I'm the kid, mom. You're supposed to be responsible for me. - Which only gets funnier and theoretically frozen in age while their actors keep Like Damon is supposed to be 25 for the entire run of the show. And the actor is already and then he's pushing So you look at Damon in season eight and you're supposed to buy that this man was admitted into a high school dance. Anyway, Elena lives in which has a history of The vampire brothers are because she looks identical to Katherine, the sexy evil lady who turned them both into vampires in the first place. I feel like we see this where like if they love any modern woman, it's because she looks identical to a previous love that they had. I think that's so lame. Like I understand that people have a type, but that is taking it way too far. I think the reason we see it so much is that it's really good writing shorthand to not have to think of a reason So that's basically the These two vampires wanna date Elena, and then every season, a new supernatural threat comes to town or I should say every half season, they tend to break it Which honestly, I like, and I'm a fan of because it forces the and not waste time. So they'll bring in witches, just kind of whatever they Number two, the supporting cast. Elena has two best friends, Well, it's kind of written like Caroline is the superficial cheer and Bonnie is Elena's real best friend. - See you guys later. No comment. - At the beginning, they as like a group, but privately, both of them seem to find Especially in the early episodes, we see that Bonnie is the one that Elena actually confides in, but Caroline is later which makes her much more And Bonnie is employed as a She's a very powerful witch. - I predict, this year And I predict all the sad and you are going to be beyond happy. (flesh squelches) (Jenna gasps) No, Jenna. In the moment, we're lost and found Please don't leave me I don't, I don't wanna be, I can't. I'm so sick of crying. No, no, Jenna, I can't, I can't. No! (gentle music) - Whenever the plot needs to move along, they'll just write in some But then consequently, I of her doing spells than We're gonna go ahead and put a big pin in the character of Bonnie. Their group includes Matt, who is mostly interesting because he stays a human which is quite a feat. Personality wise, Matt is kind of like Kristoff from &quot;Frozen.&quot; Like he's nice. And that's it. Elena's parents are already because if your protagonist is a teenager and you want them to go have adventures it's just a lot easier if If you watch, you'll notice that a lot of these kids get orphaned - So handsome. - Thanks. You look pretty good too, mom. - Oh, a compliment. I (screaming) - Anyway, Elena has a and their legal guardian (flesh squelches) - Jenna's supposed to be a grad student. So she's meant to be young, but her actress is literally than Elena's, which is a little extreme. Then we have Alaric Saltzman who is the school history and when he joins the squad, he's kind of the team surrogate dad. And when the cast grows he follows them and a la Mr. Feeney. Not to reveal how old I am I mainly wanted to mention Alaric because his name is so funny. Like they wait several episodes to reveal he's a vampire hunter as if we're just going to with the new guy in town And that's it. I'm realizing now that this The reason it's a short section on the list called the characters I hate. And a whole lot of people are there. Number three, the lore. When you're dealing with you have to establish how Lots of universes have covered but they tend to work in different ways. The first season of the show is pretty good about explaining its rules. Vampires are super fast and super strong and can compel people, which They can look into your eyes and make you do things they drank your blood. If a vampire feeds you their blood, it can accelerate healing. In the first season, Damon has this ability to start blowing all over the place and a spooky crow appears - Crow's a bit much, don't you think? - Wait 'til you see what I - This is never explained, and never returns. The spooky crow is all over the pilot. I miss that guy. I guess they didn't renew Maybe he had a falling To kill a vampire, you have through their heart, or decapitating them, or lighting And if they go in the sun, they will light on fire themselves. More on that later. These vampires have to be invited That's such an underrated And when vampire stories write it out, you know they're taking They do some funny stuff with it too. Like this newly turned vampire - And next thing I know because my foot won't go through the door. - You have to be invited him. I live alone. - And this one vampire is dragged into a house while knocked out, then wakes up and hasn't been invited in. So it's like he starts suffocating. The last notable weakness Touching it burns them, injecting it works basically - You can put it in jewelry or you can even put in food or drink, but as long as it's in you or on you, a vampire cannot control you. - Wow, so much to remember. - But my favorite quality about vervain is that if you trick a they'll do a comedy spit take. (belching and spitting) For the record, vervain is So if any of these late our Bath &amp; Body Works shoppers and their lotion of choice they're basically invincible. Unfortunately, in modern times, Coconut Lime Verbena So we're all gonna die and To turn someone into a vampire, and then kill them while and then they have to feed This kinda doesn't make any sense. I already said that I need a drink, of blood. So we often see our human and stabbed and brought to death's door, and then a good vampire and they're fine. But then the most common way we'll see people get turned into vampires is they'll drink vampire blood and then get their neck snapped. So where does vampire between what injuries that it will turn you into a There's this really confusing story beat where Jeremy wants to become a vampire, so he drinks vampire blood and but it doesn't work. And Stefan says it's healed the poisoning from the - What about the pills that he took? - He didn't take enough to die, so Anna's blood actually - But if it can heal an overdose or a serious abdominal wound, why can't it heal a Oh, speaking of blood, vampires drink it. They can live on animal blood, Damon explains that drinking human blood is what gives vampires So by drinking animal blood, And also, if he tries to compel people, it's like very hit or miss. If vampires don't drink any blood at all, it won't actually kill them. They'll just grow steadily weaker, and finally, their body and they'll stay in kind of a stasis as a mummified corpse until So it's kind of like my relationship to G FUEL Energy Formula, They said if I move enough they'll name a flavor after me. We also have a few other There are witches and vampire Werewolves are dangerous because their bite can kill a vampire. But honestly, I hate the werewolves. Not a single good character is a werewolf. And as early as season two, the world building starts at least to me, because it's always just whatever the plot Nothing is sacred. Nothing is set in stone. And obviously, if you operate like that for like eight seasons, things are going to start So let me just give you one example. I said that Elena is identical to Stefan and Damon's So why is that? Well, Elena is a magical What's a doppelganger? Well, it's a human that but looks like Katherine. You'll notice I said That's because Elena is the We don't know what it means. It's just a plot device so so that they're in love with her. But later seasons expand on to create new ideas for the plot. Like there will be a ritual or a prophecy or something that means that's come to town needs Elena's blood. And then in season two, they add the lore that Katherine herself was also a doppelganger And remember when I said that Elena was the only doppelganger ever? Well, in season four, Yeah, it turns out that Stefan is also the doppelganger - Hello, my shadow self. - Yeah, I guess you can save money by just making your principal And then in season five, we find out that the person that Elena and Katherine are and that Amara is actually the handmaiden of a new witch character that they've just written in that season. And then in the spinoff and Katherine had another doppelganger in between them and Amara, This adds nothing of value. It's just one of those things that happens when you've been out of ideas Number four, the birth So let's have a little history lesson. I said that L. J. Smith is the author of &quot;The Vampire Diaries&quot; books. But interestingly, they were not her idea. In the early 90s, HarperCollins approached a book packaging company, and told them that they Book packaging is when a publisher decides they want a certain type and they just want a third-party company to kind of throw it all together for them. From what I can tell, in the world of non-fiction. Like if you're at the checkout and you see a coffee table book of photos, or a novelty cookbook, or a and it comes with a crochet hook and yarn, that was probably the The publishing house went we want a crochet book to And the book packaging company found someone who knew how to crochet, a photographer to take the pictures, someone to write the blurbs, et cetera. The book isn't anyone's baby, it's just a product that Sometimes book packaging a book in-house and then pitch And sometimes they handle where a bunch of different authors can each write different installments under a shared pseudonym. &quot;The Hardy Boys/Nancy Drew&quot; Alloy Entertainment specifically and they're actually responsible for some pretty popular and &quot;Pretty Little Liars.&quot; So L. J. Smith, then a rookie author, was contracted on a work-for-hire basis to write a vampire series. And from what I can tell, we want a teen romance and no further instruction. The characters themselves, the plot lines, the world building, all of that seems to be Smith's invention. I haven't read the books is that they are not very Like the showrunners read of &quot;The Vampire Diaries&quot; books and then that was the framework for maybe as much as the first season. The broad strokes of a lot of the major characters are the same and the basic premise is the same. But other than that, like don't correspond to individual books and the two diverge a lot. Also, from what I've heard, the books really went off the rails. Let me consult some Wiki summaries. &quot;Damon has become possessed &quot;and his twin sister Misao &quot;who have been invading &quot;and evil Malach. &quot;Elena's struggles to adjust &quot;after having spent so much &quot;She later changes back to her human self, &quot;but simultaneously loses her angel power. &quot;Damon, Bonnie, Elena, and &quot;hosted by a woman named Bloddeuwedd, &quot;who transforms into a I wish that was in the show. &quot;After finding the &quot;Damon and Stefan kill Shinichi, &quot;who is trying to stop them. &quot;However, a magic tree (laughing) Okay, so my point is, the Let's move on. Number five. Dating tree. Why did I say like that? Speaking of magic trees, so everyone dates everyone because this is a teen drama, And also, I think the writers different pairings and see but it does make it a little funny when you look at just how interwoven the shipping chart gets. And for handy reference, I made one. There's nothing physical to hit, but I'm gonna put it right up there. And this tree is only canon pairings where they've dated, kissed, or at least expressed interest in the other party during the show. if I was denoting popular fan pairings, the chart would look even crazier. You might be looking at this if there are any gay people on this show? And the answer is, for all None of the core cast are anyway, unless you count like a that happens with one and is never mentioned again. No, if we're being honest here, across eight seasons of &quot;Vampire Diaries&quot;, there are four gay characters. First up is Caroline's dad. Caroline's dad left Caroline's mom before the events of the and that's mainly used as a punchline, like ha-ha, she couldn't keep her man, he left her for a man, - Is it a boy thing? - Mom, if I wanna talk at least he's successfully dating one. (crowd exclaims) - He does finally show as an evil vampire hunter for being a vampire in, I'm not kidding, an apparent allegory for - Daddy, you can't change who I am. - Yes, I can. - You'll remember this feeling. - Oh, no, no, no, no, no! - It's not subtle. - I want you know, when Carol Lockwood called I sat down cried. - Dad, I'm okay. I've learned to adapt. I don't need to be fixed. And I can't be fixed. - That's definitely what But also, why would they try to do that? Her cop mom and jock boyfriend have to save her from her evil gay dad. Then he threatens to tell the town council that Damon is a vampire, which the characters And when Caroline's dad dies, it's because he gets halfway and refuses to drink blood So if we're still tracking the metaphor in this whole story arc, and Caroline's gay dad is and Caroline's dad is dying of an illness that only temporarily acting gay can cure. Doctor walks in and says, unless you kiss one man, one time. - My strength is all in my beliefs. Becoming a vampire is wrong. - And he's like, I And then he dies. Oh, also when he's do you want me to call your boyfriend? Who has only existed off screen and whom you have - Do you want me to call Steven? - No, no, we haven't spoken in a while. - And he's like, no, who cares? Season five gives us Luke, a gay witch. We know he's gay because he says, I'm gay. - I was just about to take my shirt off. - Relax. I'm gay, and your brother. - And other characters talk - I'm pretty sure Damon - We never see him with Before his first appearance, he apparently had been - David dumped my ass, at Senor Frogs, of all horrifying places. - Oh man, David dumped Luke shows up to a nice how did you get in? - A radiologist I met at the gym. - Oh yeah. Where is he, Luke? This guy who brought you 'Cause he's not anywhere in frame. His sister mentions the - It's a singular twin with - But he never shows his face. And then Luke dies in season six. Season seven gives us our with a pair of lesbian witches - Let's see what else - I suppose there's no this dreadful world with. (tires screeching) - I love you. - I love you. (car exploding) - And that's it. Apparently, Legacies' the new new spinoff has gay characters in it. I haven't seen it. Good for them, I guess. Number six, magic jewelry. If there's one thing girls it's magically significant jewelry. There are the daylight rings which let vampires go out in the sun. In the first season, they're treated as like a really coveted object because you have to get a and witches don't like vampires. - And you and Damon are the only ones with these nifty little daylight rings. - But the longer the well, you only need a couple for every vampire in - All done. - We should get inside before sunrise. - Bonnie made this for you yesterday. - Then there's the vampire hunter ring which brings the wearer back to life if they die of supernatural causes. You have lockets with vervain inside to protect the wearer Elena, Caroline, and Jeremy all get those. Although, sidebar about the necklace, Stefan gets Elena to wear it because he wants her to be safe, but he can't tell her about it, so he can just give her jewelry. It's a good subtle way to But after she does know about vampires, why doesn't she just There are multiple points in the show where somebody takes her and then immediately compels her. - What is this vervain - And on the other hand, who finds out about the but she drinks vervain. So they have to hold her while the vervain passes out of her system before they can compel her to forget. So given the extreme like even if she really why doesn't Elena just also drink vervain to have both as a backup? These jewelry items honestly all seem like built-in merchandising opportunities, which might be calculated, even though it was also in the book. And honestly, I'm fine with because I remember that when I was a kid, I really loved fantasy Remember when you'd go to and some of the girls books with like a necklace or a charm I remember there were I couldn't tell you what they were about, but each of them came with a ring. There's also a magic music that can temporarily incapacitate There's the moon stone which is a pretty rock that and is needed for a magic ritual. Hilariously, when the they actually hide it in My personal favorite magical item is the Gilbert family pocket and the compass points to vampires. If you think that sounds and that it could potentially undermine a lot of dramatic storylines, Midway through season one, they just stopped mentioning the compass and hope we don't notice, but I noticed. They don't even write it out, like it gets destroyed or something, it just ceases to exist Number seven, China Beach. So most of my VPD binge happened on the CWS on-demand And I don't know why this is, but the CWS on-demand programming tended to just run the same handful of ads again and again on everything. And for some reason, the one ad that played was for the season one DVD Through the mirror of my mind - [Announcer] The series to the frontline. - IV, Jones, straight to it now! - [Announcer] And dared to - I gave him a home before - This played so many times we could literally recite it from memory. Like hey, you know what tweens watching a sexy vampire show wanna buy? A DVD box set of a show from - [Narrator] China Beach. - I didn't think you'd let - The juxtaposition is just so good. (dramatic music) - [Announcer] Order in the next 10 minutes and we'll take $10 off. - Anybody come for a swim? - [Narrator] That's right. You'll get the complete first season. - The trailer just does such a bad job of making the show look appealing to anyone that's not Like what do they think - Don't pull the dagger out. - [Narrator] Order now and we'll ship your complete first season for free. That's a savings of almost $7. - I know what they want - This is my favorite line in - It matters to me, he's my brother. - In Iowa he's your brother. Here, he can be just another spent shell. - I realizee that China Beach is not actually part of VPD canon, but it is definitely part Through the mirror of my mind The series that brought IV, Jones, straight to it now! Whoosh. And dared to show the other side of war. I gave him a home before he Hits the beach with the most anticipated DVD release in 25 years. I think it deserves its Number eight, product placement. Speaking of ads, the With AT&amp;T as your service provider, you can easily find the abandoned house where your kidnapped sister or look up efficient torture - Wolfsbane. - What else did you read? - Well, every source One is that causes lycanthropy, - [Jenny] Google doesn't Find your biological mother on Bing. - So I Binged it. I searched for all the Petersons in this area born the same - Have you faked your own death and you have to hide in an underground cave? - What is that? - It is my MiFi. If we're gonna be stuck here, then we might as well have internet. - CW shows also feature a library of pretty obtrusive pop songs. It's my impression that this is some kind of They even have a section of the CW website that like tracks playlist of what songs have been featured in what show. I feel like the editors are just given this big digital library and told to use like And the results are highly variable. Sometimes you're just watching - For your next fix. - I don't abandon my friends. - Is someone listening to Imagine Dragons Radioactive in the next room? Oh no, it's just playing at a weirdly loud volume in the scene. - Killed Dr. Wes, he with that nasty virus. (gasping) - That's a very wordy song to play over your expository dialogue. But the best thing about is that a lot of the time the lyrics are comically on the nose about - Give it more time, Matt. I think you should know When I'm with him, I'm thinking of you - Okay. Hey get your things, it's time to go - I don't deserve you. I was wrong But my brother does. I was wrong I want nothing more Than to dance with you Locked in a cage For a really long Locked in a cage For a long time, time, time - I can't tell if the editors have a sense of humor about this or if they genuinely think Number nine, L. J. Smith. When I told you about the I kind of buried the It's like dramatic tension, So like people might just click away and miss the interesting but it's also their fault. Anyway, I'd like to talk about the book series author, L. J. Smith. So just like the TV show, the books had a love triangle of Stefan, Damon, and Elena. Just like on the show, Damon was overwhelmingly the fan favorite and he was also the author favorite. However, he was not Alloy Allegedly, they saw where and they told her that it had gone too far and that Elena had to end up with Stefan. Smith disagreed and she was fired. Yeah, that's right. Remember that work for hire stuff? &quot;Vampire Diaries&quot; is for L. J. Smith's brain child, but she does not own the series. Even so I'm sure she felt after her books spawned a but she was wrong and as the show was entering its third season. And all because they were Team Stefan. Who's team Stefan? L. J. Smith wrote books one through seven. And then there were six They still say created by but if you read the small print, they clarify that they were Three of the six books, we It's literally an unknown, I find that very spooky. It's such a big franchise. Like how can that happen? Alloy retained the rights to what L. J. Smith had submitted to them. So allegedly, the first still used some of her of her writing may have made But she's made it clear that as released, the books do not follow And I guess we'll just never Right? Some fans of the series bought and L. J. Smith charitably God knows why. But a lot of her fans abandoned the series because it was inauthentic. And also, it was a bad And meanwhile, since she had L. J. Smith went on writing that she wanted to write. But unfortunately, because to her characters, this into her personal files, because there was no legal Right? So fun fact. From 2013 to 2018, Amazon's Kindle marketplace This was a short-lived fanfic authors to publish on the Kindle marketplace. The works could only use of copyright holders that Amazon had already signed an agreement with. Readers pay to access these fics, and then the profits would be split between the writer and This was a pretty unprecedented concept. And as you can imagine, it was really hard to find copyright holders who In fact, upon the projects launch, they had only signed an agreement and it was Alloy Entertainment. The properties available &quot;Pretty Little Liars,&quot; So by an extremely weird twist of fate, L. J. Smith was able to not only publish, but profit off of her unreleased which were now fan fiction. I doubt she actually made but I am glad she got to And in the process, make Alloy Entertainment look like fools, which in my opinion, they greedy, mean fools. Not to sound too heated about it. Unfortunately, this isn't the for L. J. Smith. Alloy Entertainment is still profiting off all these books and they will forever. And I find it very unlikely that L. J. saw even a I'm sure all that went into In 2018, Kindle Worlds closed permanently with very little warning to the authors who had become reliant upon it for income. And I don't think L. J. novels can be found anywhere anymore. Meanwhile, Smith's social media presence has been completely abandoned. One of her last blog a really serious autoimmune disease. So it's unclear if she's If you're L. J. Smith's niece and you're watching this You can't sell the books. So I think he should put them for free on the website and also or a PayPal button in the to cover website costs. Anyway, I guess my whole point for this section is just, They don't care about you. You can make them any amount of money and they won't care about you. And as soon as they have they own you forever. I know if you're a new author it's really appealing to And I guess that's all well and good if you're writing an installment or &quot;Warrior Cats.&quot; But for the love of God, or characters for Alloy Entertainment. They don't deserve them. Give them as little as and assume they are your enemy. Again, not to get too heated or anything. My other point here is consider buying one of L. J. Smith's books From what I gather, that's every series except &quot;The Vampire Diaries&quot; I understand that my audience but I don't know, maybe you have a niece or like donate it to a library, to the rest of her bibliography later. Number 10, Caroline's singing career. Prior to her role on Caroline's actress was a Here she is with Hannah Montana. (upbeat music) During VPD's run, she was like a country music career. And so, of course, the show shoehorned in multiple situations in Hit me with your best shot Why don't you hit me Let us go into the dark And I'm still hurting It's extremely unnatural every time. - Look, we listened to you Can we go now? - [Jenny] Like this first scene mind control powers to make - You know what? I'm gonna sing. - Come on, off the stage. - You are gonna to let me live and you are gonna be my backup. - Well, I'll be. - This scene also gets honorable mention because they have Caroline in an episode with a B-plot about a teenage witch The two scenes are supposed to but if you're watching Is this loving an eternal flame (crowd cheers and applauds) (man grunting) And of course, if you're (crowd cheers and applauds) Through the mirror of my mind - [Narrator] The series that brought women to the front line. (dramatic music) (man grunts) - Number 11, the villains. There are a lot of villains in this show and I'm only going to talk about the ones that I have stuff to say about. So if a villain doesn't I think they're boring and they suck. Season one's villain is literally Damon which I think is especially funny considering how unthreatening he becomes as little as one season later. (man groaning) - Anyone, any time, any place. And I know we don't deserve I need it. - And I need some time. Maybe a lot of time. - Sure, of course. Take all the time you need. - Another early villain is the council. These local families that have formed like a vampire hunting coalition. The council is really lame. They're just like these old money jerks and they're so way too Like when they're trying to in town is, they hold - How's that search going? - Oh, well, had the Founders' Party and anyone who arrived during the day was eliminated as a suspect. - And all the rest were - And it's like, hold on. You know there's a vampire and your best plan was to into your house? - This is my boyfriend, Damon. - Oh, well, come on in. - There's this one story arc where a bunch of ancient but then they all just in a little house on This one doesn't last that long. It's just kind of funny to me as like one of the stupidest villains. Just a bunch of vampires stuck in a house, a lot of whom we know very little about. - [Man] I hate this house. - It's like a &quot;Goosebumps&quot; tier threat. Like, okay, thanks. I just won't move into that Every scene they have is them about how they don't - I didn't stay locked up for 145 years to end up locked up here. - Maybe you should quit complaining. - And negotiating whether to which the answer is always no. - I'm tired of your rules, Why can't we go into town? - Eventually. - Wow, the terror. Katherine is the vampire obviously played by the same actress. They tell us at the beginning that she died a long time obviously she didn't die, Katherine isn't what I of any of the seasons, as just like a supplementary bad guy who comes around and causes drama. - Oh. It's okay to love them both. I did. - I really like Katherine. The canon way to tell is that Katherine wears her hair in curls and Elena usually has it straight, but Elena also sometimes curls her hair so that's kind of confusing. But fun fact, whenever the the hair is a wig. So they both have brown hair, but if Elena shows up in her and half a shade darker, it's Katherine. The most iconic villains They are the first vampires ever made from whom all current Instead of being explicitly evil, they're just kind of working and sometimes that puts them at odds with the main characters, which makes them a lot more Also, despite being ancient, they bicker amongst themselves - If you shut your mouth, the next thing to come out - Don't start, Nick. - Drop it! - You want your family? - Since they're older than the others, they have extra powers. Like instead of just being they can also compel other vampires. And sticking them through unless it is wood from Klaus is notable for being a fan favorite because he's a bad boy He's basically diet Spike from &quot;Buffy.&quot; Like he's made soft by - Are you going to kill me? - On your birthday? You really think that low of me? - [Jenny] He goes from indiscriminately killing supporting characters... - No, Jenna! - To making soulful pencil I can appreciate his drama as a character. He's just so much all the time. - Don't make me do this Go on, kill her. Come on, old man. Kill her. Kill her! I can't be killed! I have nothing to fear from any of you. - He's always on, that Klaus. My favorite of all of them and on the show is Elijah, who's Like what Captain Barbossa is doing for &quot;Pirates of the Caribbean,&quot; Elijah is doing for the &quot;Vampire Diaries.&quot; Like now that's a genre of vampire. I mean, look at his entrance to the show. (foreboding music) Through the mirror of my mind - [Narrator] The series - I remember hating this guy and I honestly think it's just I couldn't get past it. It's like a middle part halfway between Tiktok It doesn't even look real. It looks like a cheap wig. And I don't think it is. It just looks like that. It makes me uncomfortable. I wanna say, I don't believe would get this haircut. But like who am I kidding? I feel like old-school to terrible haircuts. Anyway, they change it later. I'm sorry, Elijah. I'm sorry I judged you. Part of the reason this guy is so fun is you have all these vampires so far who look and act like teenagers, And then this weirdo shows up... (dramatic music) Serving Paul Revere energy. He's dressed like a grownup. And he talks in a super stilted way - Which is a mere three hours from the town we know as Mystic Falls. I surmised it had everything - In my opinion, Elijah is one of the only vampire that you buy as an old soul. Like, okay, yeah, I believe for hundreds of years. - I had a family, over the centuries, Klaus hunted them down one by one and he took them from me. - [Jenny] There's even this like a normal human in And the actor makes it like he's not used to - Thank you so much for inviting And Elena, I hope to see - The originals got such a that they ended up getting called &quot;The Originals.&quot; (dramatic music) - [Announcer] The blood and the party never ends! - This town was my home once. I wanna be king. - [Announcer] &quot;The Originals.&quot; - I watched like a season and a half of it and it's honestly one of the There's Kai, he's a very and shown to be very powerful, but the performance is They definitely did that on purpose. Like he's supposed to be one that's like he's peppy and so Welcome to his dark twisted mind. - All these kids were murdered. - Hello? Not everyone died. I had a soft spot for one of my sisters because otherwise I would and not just her spleen. - You can survive without a spleen. - But this guy is just giving me such &quot;Pitch Perfect&quot; energy. I don't know how to I kept calling the actor, And he's not, I looked it up. He wasn't in &quot;Pitch Perfect&quot; or &quot;Glee.&quot; I assumed he must've been in one of them. Doesn't he feel like he was? I think he must just look Whenever he's in scary villain Like I'm not scared of you. The scariest thing you could do is sing an acapella 80s cover. For a little while we have the Sirens, and I was honestly really excited to get another Halloween but they just look like boring humans. Boo! They grow claws sometimes And that's all we get. This is season eight, stop pretending you're too good to have Oh my God, imagine if that would be the dream. The Siren's weakness is a tuning fork, and you can tell it's their weakness 'cause when you use I feel like I did it slurpier, like there's this (mild slurping), and mine was like (hard slurping). And then you have the travelers So you know what they - Oh, goodie, gypsies are here. Oh, I'm sorry. You call yourselves travelers now right? It's much more PC. - They're having them say travelers because they want to be as as they have this group of people be their evil Halloween - You know how much I hate travelers. - The travelers are ruthless, - Also seen, as this was a later season, the whole storyline was really boring. Was it worth it, guys? Was it? I think whenever our heroes you know you're in for a bad time. At least when it's a single villain, the character gets But when you have the council, it's just a bunch of no-names. It makes it feel like instead of an interesting face off. Oh my God, Meryl Streep. Before I close out this section, I just wanna mention one who is living rent-free in my head. He's just a little guy, a little villain of the week vampire, he's in like two episodes in season one. But this guy wants to kill Elena, and so he waits for the Gilbert then he kills the pizza guy, then he dresses up as the pizza guy, and then takes the actual (doorbell rings) - Hey. It's gonna be $22. - Elena, I need the money! - He does all this, assuming he'll be invited as though people regularly - Here, come in, just put it on the table. - His plan works by the It shouldn't have. And if it hadn't, then where would he be? He just spends God knows how long waiting for all the pieces of his only to deliver a pizza without incident, and then - And you have yourself a good night. (dramatic music) - I guess your time is less Anyway, the vampire gets but I'll never forget him. Team pizza vampire. Number 12, good and evil switch. Early on in the show, an that the reason so many is that when you're turned into a vampire, you gain the ability to This just seems like kind when we first hear it, it alters the way you view the world. It reorders your priorities. It makes you see humans as prey. - My body is exploding with power, Damon. - No. - I can hear things from far away. I can see through the darkness. I can move like it's magic. And the guilt, the pain, Damon, I can turn it off like a switch. - So I took that to mean it's because they're putting in some level of extra effort in order and not just kill everyone. But as the show goes on and around a little, this goodness, which becomes a very literal concept. - Just turn off that A vampire off switch is Being undead gets you down, voila. - Well, is his humanity on or off? - Yeah, I'm thinking there's a bit of a dimmer switch. - Yeah, it turns out every vampire has an actual switch in their brain that they can flip to good or evil. - I'm not gonna let you do this. (both crying) (neck cracks) - That's not your choice to make. - Yep, here's your problem, - And they have it so if or a loved one is in danger, they can basically talk you out of it and turn you good again. Which again, initially seems like kind of an abstract concept, also make this painfully literal. They add this idea that you have what's called an emotional anchor and that is the one or maybe two people who are capable of bringing you back. So we have this stupid episode where Caroline's humanity is off, but evil Caroline wants to stay that way. So she negotiates this where she's like, okay, Stefan So I need to blackmail Stefan to get him to turn his humanity because she could turn Stefan good, who could in turn, turn me - If Stefan wants to save Sarah's life, all he has to do is shut his humanity off. (dramatic music) Through the mirror of my mind - [Announcer] The series to the frontline. - And Damon's like, don't worry, we'll free my mom from a prison world so she can turn Stefan's humanity on and he can then turn her good And then we'll turn Caroline back. It goes from this place of like, even if a vampire is at they still love their family, and that can push through of how to turn people good again. That's all in one of the college seasons, which makes sense because I hate this kind of stuff also renders it completely uninteresting. You don't get as many morally and they don't often surprise in good mode or evil mode And it diminishes the characters because it basically splits them into two different characters. But I'm sure that lack because then you don't when villains get redeemed after doing really terrible things - All you have to do is - Damon, no! - Elena, I'm sorry. - The viewers like that but he also has to be a good boy and totally devoted to Elena But if he's too much of a good guy, he'll become boring and unsexy. So whenever that happens, you can just have his humanity and he can spend another half season being evil and sexy for awhile. Damon's last evil switch in because of how over it everyone is. - First... Take your pick because I'm Through the mirror of my mind - He's running around Like I'm a very bad boy, - Damon, just go. - Everybody's just like, The writers also obviously do all this to give the actors a chance as clearly evidenced by the is not the only way we get evil They have Stefan's Ripper personality which is when he drinks human blood and goes into a crazed blood lust. - I'm a Ripper! A ripper doesn't stop! - Also, I already mentioned Elena has an evil doppelganger. Stefan has an evil doppelganger. - Hello, my shadow self. - Alaric gets possessed by one and act evil. Tyler gets possessed by Klaus. Tyler gets possessed by a traveler. Matt gets possessed by a - That's what the travelers want. I don't question my orders. - If there's any opportunity for actors to play multiple roles, they take it. Number 13, vampire and human switch. Another thing they switch is the mortality of the cast. Humans get turned into vampires. Humans get turned into werewolves. Werewolves get turned into And then a couple of seasons in, vampires get turned into humans. They this idea of the So vampires are fighting over it. The resolution to the cure that Elena and Katherine are in a brawl and Elena shoves it - Have a nice human life, Katherine. - That's pretty funny and also probably the most interesting thing because Katherine is like the one vampire who likes being a vampire So that's a great way to end But of course this is So what I mean by resolution to it later and undermining all of that and the cure ends up used on six different vampire characters over the course of the series. This is what I'm talking about. They can never leave well enough alone. Season five also introduces the idea of a magic purification spell, So then we ended up seeing cured of vampirism, plus who might happen to be in town. I said that thing earlier about how the vampire characters are supposed to freeze in time. And part of me feels like they and had people getting cured and uncured intentionally about exactly how old these For the record, it always bothered me just how many characters wanted the cure. I mean, I'd believe a few of them want it, but like fighting over it. And they're all pretty bad about articulating why they want it. I mean, I understand characters to becoming vampires in the first place. Just no thank you. Or no homo, as Caroline's dad would say. There are some drawbacks but the characters on this show don't have a lot of those drawbacks. Here are all the drawbacks to being a vampire that I can think of. You'll notice I fit them on two Post-its. You have to drink blood. Fortunately, the show that blood tastes yummy to And also, they can do this Everyone you know will So yeah, that would be pretty lonely. Except in this show, loads Best friend vampires, boyfriend vampires, a whole vampire found family. And any human family members tend to be killed off pretty early on. - No, Jenna! - So that's not a factor anymore either. Can't go out in the sun. Also, witches make rings, so Can't stay in one place for too long or people will notice All the vampires in this So having to move They can just travel the And even if you weren't a wealthy vampire, you could just compel people. So you're pretty well Evil vampires are constantly I debated whether to because it seems like it's only a factor if you're a vampire who's It's got to be easier to lie low and go off the grid than especially when you have mind control. So all I can say to these TV And maybe if you settle down somewhere as you start making friends, just start turning so that you effectively have Is that evil advice? Am I the evil vampire? I might be, but it's There are things you And if you're 17 forever, Fortunately, none of the 17 year olds in this show actually looks 17. So I'm just gonna cross that one off. They will be able to rent cars and drink in bars to And the last one, can't What even is a normal life? As this list has established, there's not actually a lot so it's not a big deal. So I don't really see a But even so, I get when Damon feeds her his blood because he wants her to become a vampire, if it comes to that. (Elena muffled screaming) Through the mirror of my mind - [Announcer] The series that-- - She personally doesn't want and that's a really big But whenever the topic the reason they give tends to and vampires can't have babies. - I saw you reacted when he and the next eternity of her and it scared the hell out of you. - I mean, I've always You know? So it's kind of a bummer that's never gonna happen for me. - This is just extremely weird to me. And it's even weirder when you is in fact adopted, and twice I don't see anything that from adopting and raising a child. They'd have to move every couple of years because their parents and they wouldn't want And that's kind of a bummer But like a lot of kids have parents whose lifestyles require that. Anyway, shout out to this conversation, which is extremely out of line. - You will never have his children, Elena. And you are too maternal - Can you imagine anyone - Ironically, Caroline is a vampire and is later impregnated - Ridiculously long story short, they're Rick and Joe's twin babies, magically transported into by the Gemini Coven. - I feel like vampire media with the idea that it's better to be human because the audience is human. So it's weird if your conclusion is just, being a vampire is awesome, hell yeah! Only &quot;Twilight&quot; had the guts to do that. So anyway, I get why they do this, but I don't have to like it. Number 14, dead and alive switch. I guess it goes without with any kind of supernatural element has no respect for the So this show frequently It's funny because some of either because the actor or because the writers of what to do with them. You'll notice a lot of the perma-deaths are parents and guardians. - No, Jenna! - Whenever there's a permanent death, it's treated with a lot of gravity. Like there's a big emotional sendoff and a pop song and sometimes a voiceover from the character or the implication that they're watching the - Well, you'll never be alone, okay? I promise. - I don't understand. Oh my God, you're a ghost. - That's usually the best indicator as to whether a character but even then, they sometimes come back. But in most cases, if they're dead for good. And if they get anything less than that, they're coming back. Remember, this show where if you die wearing And that ring pulls a lot of weight when we still have human cast members. Oh wait, did I say a magical ring? I meant two magical rings. They are identical and Oh, also, the ring has Like if you are supernatural, And if you're a human, it if you are killed by a which also includes mundane ways to die, like blunt force trauma, as long as it's being inflicted So it won't work if you're hit by a bus, but it will work if a There are those times in &quot;Vampire Diaries&quot; when you die for real, but if you're a supernatural creature, your soul goes to the other side, which is like a purgatory that you can be brought If only we knew a powerful witch. Or if you're an original vampire, you go to the ancestral plane. You can come back from there too via witch magic or ancient mummy hand. And if you're anyone else, which also means you stick around, and dead vampires are not Now that I've told you about that the writers of I would like to tell you a brief Alaric is a vampire so he dies many times and So many times that magic Then, he is turned into a an enhanced original vampire, which is like an original Then he dies, still evil, but comes back as a non-evil ghost to - Oh my God, you're a ghost. - A couple of seasons later, Bonnie uses a spell to But by life, I mean he's still but he's himself again, so he's good. Then he crosses a magical boundary which removes the vampire but also reverts him back to dying of the wound that killed him But then he's resuscitated, this time medically by his This means he's alive again, Number 15, raising the stakes. Do you like my vampire pun? Okay, let's proceed. One problem with the is you have to keep upping the ante for anything to pose a In season one, Elena and She has a vampire boyfriend and the villains are a lot that come to town. But remarkably early into the show, almost all of the cast are Elena gets turned into a vampire. Bonnie finds out she's a witch. Tyler is a werewolf. Caroline is a vampire. Tyler is a vampire. Yes, it's the same Tyler, he's both a werewolf and a vampire. The few characters that have some kind of magical object that gives them a supernatural gift. The thing is, if all of your characters have supernatural powers it's hard to have a villain So you either have to to make bigger threats or invent loopholes which can retroactively weaken &quot;The Vampire Diaries&quot; does both. To speak figuratively, the is just like the writers paint and then they realize they've done that, and then they're like, whatever, and they just walk across It's such a good example of a TV show that doesn't plan ahead at all and just make stuff up as they go along. Like the vampire hunters in the town's water supply. This helps level the playing field between humans and vampires, which means our no is playing on hard mode. By the way, wouldn't that make the bagged blood toxic to them? 'Cause we still see them I know they're getting it from And I just assumed that the hospital's Maybe it's not. And how are all the vampires Speaking of plot holes, since they introduced a that they've doubled back on it or contradicted it in some way. Like in season two, Elena's in the middle of this and doesn't light anything on fire. So it's implied that the fire, when a vampire burns in the sun, is magical and thus only But then in season six, in the high school, she sticks her hand into the sunlight coming in through the window then turns on the gas and into a flame thrower. I'm like 90% sure that's not but also, I can't be mad at it. Like how can that not The writers also keep adding newer and bigger villains who Like they add the original vampires who can compel normal So they're a pretty good threat. But then after a couple of seasons, the originals are mostly on their side. So like, who are they gonna fight? And also, can't the That's okay, we'll add in an It's like an original, but stronger. For the record, the spinoff gets something called an upgraded original vampire, which is similar to an but it's made from a So it's even stronger. So where do you go from there? How about the world's Now, I know what you're thinking. That sounds a whole lot like an original vampire, but it's not. It came before that The main cast has Bonnie, which we're told is the most But then how will magical Well, we'll add in an original witch. I'm not kidding, they did the same thing they did with the original Also, there's another coven and they're the most powerful witches. I know I said the Bennett Witches were the most powerful witches, but that was technically not a lie. The Gemini are only so powerful because they have two twin So it's the power of two witches. So it's more powerful. Then we add the travelers, a subculture of which is who are stronger, because they've been around longer. I know that sounds like an Forget those other two kinds of witches. These are the powerful ones. But after all this, what are you supposed to Like where can you go from here to raise the stakes any further? Well, I left this out because I wanted it to be a surprise. The season eight villain is the devil. - You wanna save your brother? All you have to do is kill the devil. - Arcadius is this ancient psychic who's a super nice guy until because he keeps trying to counsel them about their impure thoughts. - The thing you imagine, - For the record, he's burned at the stake by the people of his village. So the &quot;Vampire Diaries&quot; Wiki says he was killed by the village people. Those darn village people, first they killed Caroline's - With his last breath, he let loose a psychic blast so powerful that it created its own world. (Arcadius groaning loudly) - Uh, sure. That's how they introduce the devil, with all these qualifiers. It's a place which - Call it hell if you want. It doesn't matter what name you give it or whether you believe in it or not. Either way, that is where Cade feeds on the souls of the damned. - He rules this hell-esque place, so some people have called him the devil. He's roughly equivalent They're clearly too embarrassed to just have this guy show up Bad news guys, the devil has come to town. They don't even call They're just like, this is Cade, whom some people might know as the devil. In my opinion, their restraint is their own worst enemy here. They do so many other stupid things. And then suddenly, it's too embarrassing to give me a proper devil. If they had just gone for I think that was a little aggressive. You hear the phrase, the season And you're just like, yes. Oh my God, fantastic. But like, I never thought but I'm disappointed by I wish it had been the real devil and the sirens should I will say, with all the It's really funny to just of &quot;The Vampire Diaries&quot; and without context, as just just word salad. - [Announcer] Previously - The travelers are Their leader Markos is here. - Sirens use mind control to lure their victims to their death. - The Maxwell heirloom those things fit together that swings inside a bell. When properly assembled, this bell becomes like - Number 16, characters I hate. I think this might be a CW thing, but &quot;The Vampire Diaries&quot; loves maybe read the room and feels about them a little, Like they'll bring in a new character to be somebody's love interest. And then the audience is So they'll stop, but then that new And then they'll just be while the writers are like, I don't know. Elena has a younger brother, Jeremy. I believe Elena does not so the writers added him for a reason, but I believe that reason is misguided. I think their thought Elena needs someone to worry about, so Jeremy can be put into - All you have to do is - Damon! No! - But Elena already has a lot of likable friends to worry about. And those relationships than Elena's with Jeremy. At the beginning, Jeremy's character trait is that he has rage issues and - Great. It's the first day Is it on you? - Stop, all right? You need to chill yourself - Chill myself? What is that, stoner talk? - Elena's parents died just so Jeremy is acting out because of that. He's just perpetually grumpy and brooding about everything. You can tell the writers just never quite know what to do with him. A few seasons in, they try and he whines about that like he whines about everything else. And then at least once a season, they introduce some new just for the expressed and only so he has something to do. And it's always boring because he's boring and they always die. Also, the actor is just He's like the walking embodiment of Jim from &quot;Treasure Planet&quot; with He even talks in this like he's voice acting one like Aladdin or Hercules. - It protects me from compulsion. That's that curse, cool. I did a little research on - I literally looked up interviews because they had to know or if he just sounds like that. And the answer is, he - I'm Steve McQueen. I played Jeremy Gilbert and Jake in &quot;Piranha 3D.&quot; - He just is a Disney And that makes it even his vampire hunter subplot, where he gets extremely bulked up and we're meant to see him but he still has the same - All I can think about - Like what are you gonna do, Jeremy, sing at them about Santa Fe? Next character I hate is Vicki, who looks just like Bella Thorne. She's literally just a Yeah, they really just did this twice. She's the delinquent little And she's also on drugs. She has moments of like a mean-spirited The nail in the coffin is when she gets fed vampire blood and also gets addicted to vampire blood. Like, really? - Can I have another hit? - That's seriously her one trait is just getting addicted to things. She dates Jeremy for a bit, which of course means she dies early on, but they have the as a ghost multiple times. Please appreciate that my bootleg shirt says when the show airs on the CW. Can I get the logo to match up? No. I hate uncle John, he's Elena's uncle, but he's also her secret biological father and he's also a vampire hunter. He's kind of an antagonist, but he has big Neil Patrick Harris energy so I can't take him seriously. Even worse, they try to do scenes with him and Jeremy sometimes as kind And I'm just like, &quot;Ugh, I can't.&quot; Speaking of parents, Elena's And I hate her too. - You look just like her, it's eerie. - You've met Katherine? - [Isobel] She found me after I turned. - I don't have much of an because I just can't get - Since I was last here, I've been doing everything We knew our best chance was to find him before he could find you. - I don't understand how it's so bad. - He thinks I'm helping him protect Elena. So he's been very useful in keeping me informed on - Most of the cast is really solid even when the writing is weak, but this is honestly the most in the entire series. - They visit every week even though there's no one buried here. The Isobel they knew is dead. - I looked it up and I guess the actress I haven't seen it. I don't know if she's good in that. Like maybe this was just But I don't know, something's Wes Maxfield. Yeah, that's right. Wes Maxfield, a name that than Alaric Saltzman. He's the season five villain. He's like this evil scientist A late season concept, They even retroactively where Damon was in the 50s and had amnesia about it. I wish I could have amnesia about this whole season of the show. - You study infectious - I study vampires. - What? - Anyway, I don't buy any more than I buy Syfy channel's Luke Tipple as a scientist. - My name is Luke Tipple. I'm a scientist, an adventurer, and for the next six on what will be a perilous - And he must be British or something because he speaks in that that British actors do when they're struggling to sound American. - This is the handwritten medical findings of Dr. Grayson Gilbert, your father. - It makes the modulation in like he's a text to speech - Your heroic vampire friends into the sunset without - There's this one character, Anna, who I don't necessarily but she's another Jeremy girlfriend so another waste of time. She's fine when she's but the Jeremy girlfriend drama is just the worst part of the show. Anna's a vampire, and I think she's supposed And I like that, I liked the idea of that, but they dress her absolutely horribly and never brush her hair, presumably to make her look younger. But it's like, geez, and still has absolutely no I feel called out by her. Like this would be me If I existed in the universe of the show. We all wanna think we'd be Elena, but we'd actually be who's 400 years old and still thinks she should be wearing a cap sleeve shrug and butterfly earrings to the formal. I also have no particular but he represents one of the worst writing moments on the show. So Matt has a neglectful and his dad is not in the picture. Then in season eight, the last season, Damon needs to get a magical artifact and attacks this random Then suddenly Matt runs in like-- - Dad. Through the mirror of my mind - Matt runs up to his dad like, &quot;Hey dad, sorry I tracked &quot;and didn't tell you about vampires.&quot; And it's like, what? What's going on? - I know, none of this makes any sense. And I know I tracked you and I didn't tell you about any of this. You'd think this would be important, but it all just happened off screen and they didn't tell us until the moment they Okay, the last character My reasons for hating him He's this jock that gets He start the series as - No, it's not gonna happen. It's not gonna happen. No, I said no. I said no! Ow, that hurts. - Hey, leave her alone! - Wow, Vicki Donovan - He seems to have some other Yeah, they just kinda throw and then never circle back to it. Never address it again. He's a good guy. Or maybe that was supposed to be his latent werewolf aggression, Anyway, the unfair reason I hate him is just that he seems so stupid. Like no thoughts, head empty. I think it's this actor something about him just gives - Tyler. (Tyler gargling and belching) - [Jenny] And not Ben but like if the character Zoolander was trying to act in a TV drama. - So much for that sire bond. - I'm not your little bitch anymore. - You think you're too cool for school, but I got a news flash for You aren't. - Anyway, Tyler is a and has a lot of screen time, that it kind of circles when he's on screen. That's the nicest thing I've said about anyone in this section so far. Number 17, good stuff. Elena's friend Caroline is like the ditzy cheerleader archetype. And she gets turned into a vampire and you sort of expect her to get killed off shortly afterward. - They kind of like mentioned, well, we might have Caroline (dramatic music) And I was like, great. Every female they've turned I'm like, this is it. - But instead, she's just a vampire, with very little status quo change. She actually kind of thrives at it. - Excuse me. Excuse me. - Like she still has all the same friends and she goes to school but she's just a And I like that. I think it's funny. Another nice thing about Caroline is that she's usually the one insisting the cast do normal human things. My favorite moments of the show are when they do relatable and those moments are But when they do happen, it's Elena's friends in general are good. The actresses for all have such good chemistry and feel like they're actually friends. That's part of why I said Jeremy was such a useless character because Elena already has and worry about. My favorite part of this And I don't mean that are a slam dunk. A lot of them are too and the show starts to in the later seasons. But specifically the thing is that they tried to make and as such, a lot of the And that meant that the villains when their arc ended, the showrunners usually and just have them be defeated or eventually they would just reform them and have them stick around awkwardly as part of the friend group. I call this the &quot;My Little Pony&quot; solution, and I love it, I think it's cute and funny and it's good every time. Speaking of redemption arcs, Damon is usually portrayed who's in love with Elena, but who could kill anyone at any time. - Anyone, anytime, any place. - But of course, as his they also have him bond with all the other supporting characters. Like he hangs out with her brother, her teacher, her friends, And I like that. I feel like so often where a bad boy is redeemed by love, there's this big emphasis on the idea that he's only a nice And if she wasn't around, I assume this is for the sexiness factor, but I don't know, it always bothers me. It makes it seem way less genuine that this bad boy is and trying to be a better person. In this series, it's very Damon would still have a moral compass and continue to be good It's especially obvious because spoiler, Elena essentially does die, And we'll get to that later. And lest you think I'm I like Stefan, Stefan is on I know I've been mean about him and called him boring, because He's very Captain America-esque. - We go announced, we - All right, then I won't come out. - So no more Stefan. - I can't think of a better reason to die. - Damon is the guy you want but Stefan is the guy you And I liked the actor who plays him, who you can tell is very charismatic when he's given anything which is not often enough, Um, what else? I like that we're supposed to believe this as a freshmen college dorm. - Hi! - Who are you? - I'm Megan, your roommate. - Man, a third roommate in How will we make enough room There's this old vampire named gave us the best death scene in the show. (Michael groaning and yelling) He ruly held nothing back. In one episode, there's I love corn mazes, and I Number 18, the video game. In 1996, they released a &quot;Vampire Diaries&quot; point and click mystery I want to take away the darkness Based on the books, not Well, based on the books, is based on the books, So I played it. You play as Elena who is from getting a magic dagger the magical energy of the town. - It's a pleasure to meet you, sir. My name is Elena Gilbert. - Oh, great. It uses real life actors, but each character exists in And there are only like six locations. And they all look like that depressing brand of Damon shows up looking - Of course she's enjoying the party. How could such a pretty girl do otherwise? - And other characters are You also have Mikhail, who is featured in the show as Michael. You just got to see his (Michael groaning and yelling) And he comes in and it's like, &quot;Oh.&quot; - It was so nice of you to join me for the christening of - I wonder which character is the bad guy. This was honestly one of the And I love point and I've got a putt-putt This was just such an early incarnation of this genre of game. I feel like games like this around the environment to But this whole game only has like 10 objects for you to find. And many of them won't So most of the gameplay is dialogue trees. - Do you know anything about just added to his collection, Aunt Judith? - Dagger? No, it sounds awful. - A couple of times I well, if I just go around and talk to every character, eventually one of them will tell me what I need to do to progress. But sometimes until you that you need, you are The dialogue trees freeze where they are, the characters repeat themselves. And also once you initiate a conversation, the dialogue is not skippable. So you just hear it all a million times. This entire thing is every single time you talk to him. - I've been worried about you, Elena. Your power's growing Look, just promise me that Okay? Tell me what you discovered. - [Jenny] And for the - I need a whole lot of money to buy it. Can you lend me the money, Stefan. - Anything I have, I would Even my heart. But I have no use for money, - Sometimes speaking to a character twice in a row will yield a new The first item I picked up was a shovel. And I feel like I'd by the time I found it. So since it was my only fruitlessly brandishing it at everything, like maybe I can hit this with my shovel. The one exciting moment was when I tried to dig up this grave and the woman's ghost showed This was after no other just an angry ghost in broad daylight. They also have this game mechanic where it occasionally switches I wasn't sure if time by actual time passing or how many locations I visited or what, but I did notice that you by returning to Elena's bedroom and activating the going Some things can only happen at nighttime. So when you get stuck, you're not sure if it's because you missed or because you need to talk in case one yields a new dialogue option or because you simply have to wait for it to get dark before I ended up just fruitlessly reclicking all the same talking to the same six and then going to sleep to make It's like it's oppression simulator. The worst part of the game to buy a runestone from an art collector. So Elena, who talks like this, goes, &quot;Oh no, I need a lot of money.&quot; And I asked her aunt first, obviously. But the aunt says no. - You know I'd give you but I think we need to with money right now. - And then I'm like, well, great. I guess I have to ask everyone else until the plot moves And you know it's fruitless because again, there are only like six and the six characters are the grounds keeper at the cemetery, and I'm having to crawl to like, can you give me a lot And obviously, they're like, I don't have a large sum or I just clean up weeds I don't know you that well, this is actually a really And I'm like, oh my God, I know that. I know that, but the game I didn't want to. The game is forcing me to humiliate myself and watch all these while characters explain this to me. It feels like the game It also doesn't help that are so low res that you literally I thought this was like a And then when I finally caved and looked up a walkthrough guide, I found out it was a book of matches. Speaking of the player's and then as soon as I read it, I didn't feel bad about looking it up because I never would have There's this item I picked up which I thought was an African mask, but apparently was a large statue. And you're supposed to lay like a bridge and walk across it. Yeah, I could've played this game for 1,000 years and not gotten that. So after four hours of gameplay and with the help of the walkthrough, I made it to the secret chamber, and then I could not find to click on to get out of this room. I circled for tens of minutes. I tried everything. I clicked every inch of the screen. And then I finally accepted and just looked up gameplay footage. And you're just gonna have to be okay with the fact that I did that because I'm not finishing this game. Okay, anyway, how did the game end? Elena defeats Mikhail, and it's kind of like impossible to even tell what's going on. (both groaning) (man laughing) I guess Mikhail has an amazing There are a lot of cut This story is pretty high stakes, but simultaneously all of the - I died in the late 15th killed me in a duel. And ever since then, I've fought that evil that's part of my soul - [Jenny] Stefan reveals he's a vampire. Like he's telling you - Damon and I quarreled and dueled over the girl we both loved, over the vampire whose blood We died on each other's swords - But I do have to and the credits, which are amazing. - [Elena] I want to be with you always. (gentle music) (thunder rumbles) (upbeat music) This is mine - Number 19, the clothes. The wardrobe department is I have this notion in my head somewhere, the CW just has a big warehouse of generically trendy clothing. And the wardrobe team probably has a really short turnaround and they're just kind of (indistinct) of the cast is good-looking, it is surprising how misguided Elena does better than because the actress has where clothes are mostly in a very neutral way. I mean, look at this fit. That dress ends in such a weird place, it's basically a long floral shirt. She's in evil mode this episode, so she's supposed to look intimidating, but she just looks like she forgot pants. Typically, Elena's signature and a solid colored long sleeve top in shades of blue or purple. And then she wears a lacy it's very 2000s, which I guess might mean it'll So that'll be weird. I wore this stuff all the time. Do you remember when that was in fashion? And they would like have shirts with attached cami tops And then when you looked inside the shirt, it was just a triangle of In general, the signature Elena And Katherine definitely noticed this because it's usually what she wears when she's trying to impersonate her. The town of Mystic Falls has and theme dances, like at which is obviously just an in crazy costumes and period clothes, like their little dolls. And the vampires also have loads of flashbacks in various eras. So we get vintage clothes there too. Caroline has done the dirtiest All these horribly gaudy And just these weirdly unflattering and ill-fitting garments. This outfit from season It looks like a maternity dress on her. Anyway, I do like that has a unique and consistent style. Elena's outfits feel simple and casual. Like you believe that a real teenager would Bonnie dresses a little girlier. She wears a lot more and she's queen of the cardigan. And Caroline wears garbage Number 20, the vampire diaries. Not the show, but the object. This show actually and non-vampire diaries, I guess. The pilot and first season show Elena writing a lot in her journal, which the showrunner seemed because she drops it as the show goes on. But as if to justify the title, we do have other diaries And I like to watch for the diaries because I think it's like Elena, is a lifelong journaler. So that is a true vampire diary. Elena's ancestor maintained which is an important historical document and also a kind of vampire - Johnathan Gilbert right down to the bitter - And the bad guys learn from a witch, Emily Bennet's own journal, not to mention all the plot which let's be honest, are also diaries. Damon maintains a video but I would argue that that doesn't count. The show is not called The Vampire Vlogs. - I guess this is my modern new version of a dead man's journal. - And there are a couple that use various characters' journaling as an excuse to have but that tends to be there's no consistency. But my favorite instance of back into it comes at Elena is entering a death like sleep and is saying goodbye to her - Promise me something, both of you. Write it all down, everything that you Every crush, when you fall in write it down. So that one day when I wake up, I can read all about and feel like I was there. - So yes, her parting words It's like somebody in the writer's room spat out their coffee, like oh my God, we forgot to have a vampire Number 21, racism. I bet those &quot;Vampire Diaries&quot; writers were getting really looking at the timeline and seeing that I hadn't They're all settling in Well, here it is. The show is set in the town which is a very traditional town. They have like 20 holidays a in their Civil War era ball gowns and hangs out at the old plantation house. They have Miss Mystic Falls which is a beauty pageant and an annual Founders' Day Celebration not to be confused with I swear to God, that's a You get both in the same season and it made the passage of Let's not forget the annual They actually changed the names around a little bit because in the books, Mystic Falls was the town of Fells Church, and Mystic Falls High School The video game adaptation And that section of the with Confederate flags, tainting an otherwise perfect video game. The kids dress up as Confederate soldiers for the school parade and smiling and waving back, like no thoughts, head By the way, that float was a recreation of this moment in local history. - We talked about it in class, Confederate soldiers fired on a church with civilians inside. - Even the corn maze wasn't exempt. Hello, Confederate And oh, I didn't forget Damon was a straight which they later amend to I guess that's supposed to make it better. - I was simply having too - Your commitment to the - But there's this weird where Stefan is talking and he specifically cites his as one of his positive attributes - The older brother I looked up to, the son who enlisted the Civil - Yeah, man, in the Confederate Army. Maybe leave that one out Bonnie's ancestor Emily Bennett is famous in supernatural circles for being one of the most And she's also Katherine's slave. Oh, sorry. Not slave. I meant, handmaiden. Yeah, that's what they in the Antebellum South. There's sort of this implication that she and Katherine and maybe they're just putting while they're in the Confederate Like Emily always seems like it's a little game they're playing. Like ooh, ha-ha, we have Anyway, maybe there are plenty where she is not a slave and she's just out there but that's the point when we that's the outfit her for all eternity. Let's try to consult the Wiki &quot;Little is known about Emily's personality &quot;based on the number of &quot;as she performed minimal roles in them.&quot; Cool. Bonnie herself is the only black person on the principle cast. And she never seems to that Mystic Falls has all or that her ancestors were slaves. In fact, it's noteworthy that racism seems to just not exist in Mystic Falls. There's a suggestion of classism. - And Amber Bradley is only on the court so the pageant doesn't look like it's founding families - [Jenny] Tyler's dad is the mayor and there are multiple girlfriends because they're not good But the characters in - It's Vicki, right? Matt's sister. - Yes, ma'am. - That's what you get when you bring the trash into the party. - Matt is the only poor person in town. And I'm not saying this would instantly become a better show if it had a grim arc wherein Bonnie is discriminated Even if they had tried that, I'm sure they would have But like they decided to have They decided to keep it set in the South. And they decided to have That's what makes the whole The echoes of racism and but it's only ever presented There's this one exchange and I think it unintentionally sums up the issue of race Tyler's ancestral estate was and he finds a big, suspicious in the basement because When he tries to ask his - Well, this is the South, honey, but no one likes to reminisce Yeah, sure, they don't, Carol. - That was the original plantation house, beautiful Antebellum architecture. And if it hadn't burned to the ground, we'd probably be living in it. - Hmm. What's the deal with the - We don't talk about - The house was beautiful, Tyler, a beautiful plantation house, but we don't talk about those rooms. Oh, that's weird. I don't have a Post-it up on my creepy bulletin board for racism. I could've sworn I put one up there. Number 22, Elena leaves. At the end of season six, the actress who played Elena decided she wanted to leave the show. There was a lot of drama surrounding her reasons for leaving, and the only reason she ever gave was that she felt Elena's That's obviously a fake reason because like CW shows never They just kind of putter with greatly varying You can't tell me the show after season six in any run out of ideas after season four. There's obviously a about how she left the show because of her breakup with They apparently dated for And then he got married shortly before her decision to leave. I think that sounds fake. That's all I have to say about that. It sounds like little kid logic. I would wager that her departure had a much more boring explanation. Like she was tired of living in Georgia for the bulk of the year. She had worked one job for and hadn't had an opportunity Maybe she asked for a bigger Maybe she heard some potential storylines for season seven and Whatever the reason, with I feel like it would be for the showrunners to just end the show. But no, they continued How? You ask. Don't worry, I got you. So our pitch perfect villain and loves drama. And he decides to place So she will be in a coma until the moment her This is drama for all, who is in love with and dating Elena because it forces him to like I don't know, 80 years. - Oh, and please don't go looking for some weird witchy work-around, because as the incredibly I rigged this so that if both you and Elena will die instantly. - It also leaves the to write Elena off indefinitely, but be able to suddenly bring her back if the opportunity arises. It's pretty dumb and the villain should've It's not like death is But hey, maybe they can make this work. I mean, yeah, it's a pretty bad sign when your lead actress and wants to leave, was the glue holding &quot;The For better or for worse, &quot;The Vampire Diaries&quot; is largely a fantasy about the hot boys that Elena is dating or could be dating. Elena, in her time on the show, was just the conduit for that fantasy. So as long as some girls are dating some sexy Halloween So let's embark on our next point. Number 23, the Elena problem. Elena was never a very fun character. You think I mean one thing by that, but I actually mean two things. You'll see, we'll get there. I don't wanna make it I've already talked about and she wasn't there. But at the end of the day, Elena is nice. She's very beautiful. And we're told she has It doesn't help that the series begins after what we're told has been a huge personality shift for Elena. In the pilot episode, she's returning to after her parents died in a So we're told all this foundation to Elena that we just don't get to see. We are told last year she was popular, but now she doesn't like to go We are told she used to cheerlead, but she doesn't do it now. We are told she likes to read, because she borrows a copy of and then never expresses an - &quot;Weathering Heights&quot; by Ellis Bell. - I have lots of books, go ahead, keep it. - Oh no, I, but I would - VPD does show us things about Elena too, but only in the broadest sense and in pretty unrelatable ways. It shows us that she's a good person, by which I mean that when she's like, no, don't kill people. That's wrong. We are shown that she's loyal, by which I mean that when vampires want to kill her friends, she says, no, don't kill my We're also shown that her in the frames they hang on their walls. But none of that is I'd like to focus on one particular thing we are told about Elena. It's the saddest thing and the thing we're told the most often. Elena used to be fun. - You don't seem like the - Oh, it's just 'cause her parents died. Yeah, I mean, she's just totally going through a blah phase. She used to be way more fun. - That she both was fun and had fun before the death of her parents. To me, I feel like you hear this concept at the beginning of a story, and you think, maybe like maybe Elena needs to But she doesn't change or and the show doesn't If anything, Stefan and seems to stem from how sullen she is and the fact that she looks (Jenny sighs) I don't wanna say that a is inherently a bad thing. Some people are just like that. But one of the characters that that Elena used to be fun is Elena. - I used to be more fun. - You get the sense that she She just can't reach it anymore. She suffered a tragedy and now has this existential dread where normal life feels She's too in her head. She can't care about high or enjoy cheerleading, Then season after season, this gauntlet of grief, terror, violence. - You are going to be beyond happy. (glass breaking) - If anything, the narrative Like your existential The things that mattered and brought you joy are trivial in the face of giant world-ending problems that plague you constantly. Then Jeremy dies and it's the straw that and she switches her good switch to evil. But even in evil mode, she's not fun evil. She's like completely numb. I mean, listen to the on the nose pop song they play at the party she's throwing. - You were trying to keep I don't care I brought the party here. I don't care I love it, I love it - Great. I don't care - They even have her say - You get it? I don't care. - Didn't you listen to my song? And contrast her against Other vampires are killing people, yeah, but they're also pouring And Elena is here like, I think I'll lie in There's this sequence where evil Elena goes to a cheerleading competition just so she can feed on the other teams. And when it's time for their performance, Caroline gets tossed up in the air and Elena is just like, Like an intrusive thought that she just acts on to see what happens. And you look at her face after and she's not like (evil giggles), which is definitely how I'd be if I had just dropped Caroline, She's just totally blank. She wasn't mad, it didn't she just doesn't feel anything. If you're wondering how gets resolved, Jeremy Yeah, that's it. Bonnie does a spell. Cool. I don't know what we're So it's just this bizarre that Elena goes through the entire series dealing with trauma that and it's just never resolved. What kills me is that this tied in the growth moment Actually, not to be petty, but they had to do that, and didn't. Roads not taken, which for Elena's character. I counted five roads. Elena was with her parents when their car went off and they drowned. So it's pretty obvious with a combo of normal grief and very strong survivor's guilt. That's only compounded later by how many other or indirectly endangered But this is a vampire show and Elena ends up becoming a vampire. And I feel like that arc could have been her teaching moment. A vampire's existence They need to drink blood to survive. So every day of Elena's existence that she has a right to live I think I just implied that but it's not, not that So that's road number one. Elena being a vampire, about how she has a right And if we're not going to then shoot, let's look at the The cure is in a literal sense, life, and there's only one dose. But the question of whether is given surprisingly little The one time she tries to turn it down, it's because they need it. That episode is a bargaining Like Rebekah wants the cure. So she gets mad about it. But every single other character just like unanimously decides that Elena should be the one to get it. When they get a second dose of the cure through witch magic time travel, they're all just like So whoosh, that was road number two. Oh no, guys, it looks like we Elena deciding that she wants and deserves the cure as could've been your resolution. But now I'd like to rewind a little. I mentioned that Elena becomes a vampire, but I didn't tell you how, So Elena becomes a vampire when Matt is run off the road and goes straight off Wickery the same spot, the same circumstances as the crash that killed her parents. Baybe the council should toward better guardrails on vampire hunting compasses. As if it wasn't clear enough, the scene is very intentional cutting between the current accident and the one with her parents. We see Stefan swim down to the car where Elena's father is and Elena's father insists In current day, Elena insists By the way, I know this scene is sad, but it's also kind of funny. Like everybody's here in their submerged cars. In this amount of time, you For that matter, if you've and some people are conscious, why can't Stefan just yank those seatbelts and float everyone up together? Anyway, Elena gives her life to save Matt and it's presented as beautiful and good. And the way it's intercut implies that Elena is making amends. The whole series she's felt guilty that she didn't drown And now she's had a chance to do it over and her choice was to drown. I'm just gonna say it. I don't like this. The circumstances, the cutting the sad pop song. It all seems to suggest that this was what was meant to happen. That it's sad, but Elena by dying in the water - How is it cosmically possible to get into two accidents - I don't know. Maybe it was fate drawing me back, saying that I cheated - This bridge is where Not just once, but twice. - I dislike this car that it accounts for the Road number three is my least favorite, but I'll say it anyway. How Elena saved Matt, that's it. This car crash was a pivotal and she has been handed So how about instead of with her seatbelt buckled, she grabs Matt and helps Stefan get him to shore. In a thematic sense, I don't like this, because to me it would imply that it was Elena's the first time around and that And I don't think that's a good message for a survivor's guilt storyline. It suggests that the survivor's But whatever, it's possible that that would give Elena closure, so I added it to the list. Okay, road number four. In the show, Elena gets but unbeknownst to her, she has So instead of staying dead, I don't like that because So road number four is just having Elena choose to become a vampire. Maybe she carries some in case of emergencies. It's actually kind of incredible Like why doesn't every human character just do that all the time? In this universe, we are shown that you can just keep blood in a little vial at room temperature and it's indefinitely shelf stable. So like Damon wants her to be vampire. So maybe Damon has given Like if you're ever in a drink this as opposed to dying. And she takes it to humor I don't wanna be a vampire, So fast forward to the car crash and she is now literally that her survivor's guilt tells her she shouldn't have And she can tell Stefan and they swim away. And now we have this convenient scenario where she is trapped underwater with a ticking clock until she drowns. And she has to make this choice. So that's your opportunity for Elena to have a moment of like, no, I want to keep living at all costs. And you can still have an angst later because she didn't wanna be a vampire, but at least this is a way to wrap up one of her emotional story arcs. All right, and now road number five. First, I don't want Matt in the car. I think it should be Jeremy. He's just her family, so and he has so little to From there, I figured she like she did for Matt, and and hate that she's a vampire, but then like the person she saves It's incredible that they didn't do that. Matt feels guilty but it's not like It's like normal guilt. Like, Oh man, I really owe you one, bro. - How is she? - I guess she's fine, considering. - If there's anything I can do, you know, short of giving her a ride, I'm only alive because she She's a vampire because of me. So I'd like to pay back or forward. - So if Jeremy had survivor's Elena would now be from the opposite perspective. And she would be able to see that there's no reason to feel guilty. I just feel like that could for her, for how many I don't feel like we She didn't even have any other So I can't even be like, 'cause she was always The Elena in the series finale we meet in the pilot, except So they have this final and it's hitting a lot of the from the pilot. And we're meant to be And it's like, yeah, how far It's been eight years. And a lot of stuff has happened around you, but you've been standing still - And I owe it all to Stefan. When I met him, I had lost my parents, and I was dead inside, but - How, Elena, when? It would have been nice as an audience to witness this change. If Elena is any happier in the finale it's not for any introspective reason. It's just because the devil is dead. So the evil is defeated and that's not even anything Elena did. Her friends did it while she was asleep, which But how is that in any way, What relatable narrative The moral of this story kill the devil, get a boyfriend, words to live by, I guess. Number 24, the Bonnie problem. So for the majority of the series Bonnie had a pretty with Damon, fans of the I'm going with this one. It's established that witches and vampires are already kind of natural enemies because witches work and the elements and vampires but also he's a jerk. They always get annoyed at each other. - What's Caroline been up to? - Do yourself a favor Damon and - If I do this, you and me, cultures. - No. - He probably would have if Elena wouldn't get mad about it. Also, I don't know if he served in the Confederate Army, but like that can't have helped. Anyway in season six, Bonnie and Damon get trapped I don't feel like But season six is corporate team building retreat. So Damon and Bonnie bond. And then at the end of under that aforementioned sleeping curse. And remember, the curse If Damon wanted to see Elena anytime soon he would have to kill Bonnie, only does Elena love Bonnie, And my Damon loves Bonnie. I mean platonically, or do I? The Damon Bonnie relationship more or less dominated two but the writers were dead date each other. And that's very stupid because Elena's just a conduit. The whole point of the dating all these eligible vampires. It doesn't really matter likable enough to serve if nobody is allowed and Elena is dead in a coffin, that means the most on the show is now rendered celibate. - The last thing anyone wants to do for the next six decades is like cranky, bitterm sexless Stefan Salvador, okay? Elena would never do she gave you very clear - How does the writers' What do they think they're here to do? If I may make a bold suggestion, with a pretty easy and obvious fix. Just have Bonnie and They will be happy. Maybe they'll stay together. Eventually Bonnie will die and then Damon can date Elena again if he even still wants to. I feel like fans would because Bonnie is not Elena. And also a lot of CW viewers are teenagers and teenagers haven't So they tend to have a very specific view of love and relationships. There's this idea that Like you meet them when you're 16 and you stay with them forever. And you're not allowed to And you can't love anyone So I think Damon falling in love with an additional person would be seen as diminishing which I don't think needs to be the case. But I mean, this happens in real life. I mean, I mean, not all of this. But I mean, people break and they find new and and it doesn't erase the old ones. And I think especially when your story that that is an interesting I mean, they're living multiple around them generally aren't and emotional turmoil of teenagers. It stands to reason that vampires would in very different ways than - She won't be in epic love. Contrary to popular belief, there are actually multiple - And I mean, odds are for 80 years. That's the most literal case of we were on a break that I can possibly imagine. People open up relationships to college in different States. But Elena being dead in a box, If you think about it, Bonnie is probably the okayest person. He could date because by magical decree, she and Elena are not allowed So it's not like there's any Although the whole thing of Elena's tearful, goodbye - Write it all down. Everything that you Every crush, when you fall in love. - But the thing is once Selena died they gave Bonnie a lot more screen time. And a lot more of her personality came And the actress has good who she spends a lot of scenes with. Elena was the protagonist for six seasons and still mostly felt like she would just be for in a given moment. Also, so her actress has this like Elena voice where she like clenches up her jaw and slurs, all her words. - Now with all these Is there a way to break it? 6:oo am, seriously? - I don't know. I like the Elena voice. I like this actress, but I just out because after six And you're like, okay, open your mouth when you speak Elena. Anyway, once Bonnie became I found out that I liked her a lot more. She jokes around more. She has a temper. She just seems like a I think it would be worth it to at least ruminate on the nature of immortal relationships But the show shoves Bonnie, as a love interest as though in a show where everyone dates of season seven is intense but they have to cushion every single one by having them reiterate - Because you, Bonnie Bennett, are an amazing woman and my best friend. You're my best friend. - I'm your best friend. - You're right Bonnie, - Or they can say, I love you but then they have to add Like I love you like Elena did. And we both miscellanea a whole lot. - You're going to make me And you're going to help I can possibly be same way she did. I admire you. I believe in you, and I love - Bonnie and Damon aren't At least I think they are. The writing style of the Fan Wiki is it's too beautiful to understand. Bonnie is Damon's weak spot. And Damon has a lot of indescribable inner tenderness for her. Their connection and relationship is known as one of the most intriguing, unusual and interesting According to many readers. And their connection is of platonic, romantic and sexual in nature crossing a fine line or pure and intensely dangerously, Yeah. I have no idea It's like the explanation So I hear you asking, who Honestly, the writers always treated all of Bonnie's relationships She spends a lot of the the worst character. As if any girl in high school would date the little And even when she's with him, with the ghosts of his two after she used which magic from the dead, the absolute disrespect. And it just feels like such a raw deal that she ultimately gets Enzo. Oh no. It sounds like it's and has such a derivative Like a guy who caused plays and feels like he needs to be he's introduced in the college And he just feels like a of the 40 other bad boy vampires we've seen by that point in the show. - Didn't we already do this? - The much needed context for Enzo is that audience favorite had been written off to - [Announcer] The Originals, - And that also popular Klaus and Caroline, Klaroline. - LChorFern asks, if with over 20,000 signatures - So when Enzo comes on the show he seems to me to be a very He's this British accented And he flirts with Caroline - Huh. See you around gorgeous. - Damon mentioned you get a little judgy. And then again, he also said - Hi, I'm your type. Well traveled, charming accent. Dodgy moron. - And arrogant. - I guess that went over as badly as every other non Klaroline Carolineship because they gave up on And then it's that familiar We tried to write in a love interest. The fans didn't like And now we've got this guy and we don't know what to do with him. For a while to even try pairing Enzo with Stefan and Damon's vampire mom, God. So finally they settle on Bonnie because Bonnie is single, Enzo single and they have no idea what That's all Bonnie's a sad afterthought. A tying up of loose ends. To add insult to injury, Enzo then dies tragically and he doesn't get brought back. The happy ending for their on as a ghost, happy for - I'm determined to I'm going to live this - Come on, they put the a brochure for the whole There's this sad interview where about how excited she was because Bonnie had never - All I've ever wanted was to have this - And well, look how that turned out. I'm not trying to say happening here, but Caroline's had many, many boyfriends. And for the most part, in new characters to date her, or another with almost She hooked up with Damon at the start of the show, Matt, plus as a major series And Caroline is basically his OTP. And Oh yeah, she marries Despite also being one leg Stefan gets reassigned to Caroline when Selena And it's not like that's out of line. Basically every central least two other main characters. Remember my dating tree. So how come it's okay for Stefan to move on But when it comes to Bonnie suddenly Damon is totally off limits? Stefan dies too. So Caroline also ends the series single but the epilogue shows from Klaus in the mail. It basically says our in the spinoff series. The originals airing only on the CW along with a check for $3 million. So I'd say she made out All of Caroline's relationships in their own right who with her because they happen But all of Bonnie's hastily written into date Bonnie, it becomes a cliche where some new blandly attractive guy will show up at school, talk directly to Bonnie. And it's like, oh, I wonder what this character's here to do. Literally the only exception to this rule is Jeremy and Jeremy sucks. Sorry. And let's not even talk boys date Bonnie purely to trick - Yeah. You shouldn't be so desperate. You made it too easy. - I mean, the number but that's still multiple of stuff doesn't happen They even have Bonnie That's not a joke. Okay. Not literally. He was informally taken in So they're not biologically related or legally related and didn't So like by every metric they get a pass. - So are we like related? - Oh no - But this is fiction. The writers could have They can invent any boy in the world for Bonnie to date and for her is technically not incest boy. Of course, in the tradition this guy is in like two episodes and then inexplicably vanishes Maybe they got complaints. For the record, Bonnie also going on with Kai. If Bonnie was any other girl on the show they would've made some I know he's a villain, but everyone else States they're villains. I already said, I hate Kai. So like, thank God this didn't happen. But come on, you know, I'm right. And remember Enzo, her has already spent an entire That's right. Bonnie doesn't even And that's not a very popular market. Oh yeah. Remember that thing trying to have a singing career and they have her sing Well, Bonnie's actress had a She is on Hannah Montana. Okay, she didn't sing on that. It was just an acting gig. I just thought it was funny, but she really singles got modest radio play, and we don't see Bonnie singing it looks like she mostly did pop. And it would be incredibly of Bonnie was suddenly at the local bar. But she had ballads too, as if it doesn't make perfect in her dark academia Oh, I forgot. She didn't have a bedroom Yeah, that's right. She's one of our leads seasons to bother location They have her start learning And I really thought I was witch jam session, but they She barely even hums along. The only consistent is using magic to help the not to mention the multiple chunks of the show where they just she's visiting her family. It's like Miranda and - I'm gonna really miss you. - I just had so much to deal with. - Like, you need to go home. - It's boring around here with that. - You think you're bored? My dad's side of the family is like wet paint that never dries. - Bonnie, thank God you're home. I know we talked every day, but I miss you - Bonnie! - You really talk to - But she's in Mexico city - They just completely stopped for what to do with She'll be back in town in time for a story arc ending ritual. What's this, oh weird, there's something hidden Oh my God. I found my racism Post-it, number 25. Where are they now? Not the actors. I think for them the answer is mostly except for Alaric who demanding that people on Twitter come to his house so he can His friends should check Don't show up at his house on announced. I've heard he has guns. But no, I'm talking about the characters. I want to give a fly over of how the series wraps up they aired a 40 minute retrospective. I felt like if I was doing this video I ought to watch it and I had to buy it. It's literally just a with cast interviews just like one sentence of an interview which they use to set - Stefan being an outsider was something that I really think that Elena gravitated towards. - I'm Elena. - She looked at Stefan. - In the graveyard when she first met him. When he reached over and took the leaf off her sweater out of her hair. - Thanks. - I can't believe I paid $3 to watch this I know it's not much, but it's too much. They should've paid me. Think I'm ultimately gonna God, I wasted my time. Anyway, I had been doing my but then when I got to the finale I realized it would be more normally I just watched it through reaction videos - No, no, Stefan's dead. - Oh my god, he's dead! - Honestly, this is way better. I wish I could have like this because they cut out all the unexciting parts Also the energy these special mention to this girl who cried basically the entire time. She even chanted along with She got a million views on this and she deserved every single one of them. With a story like &quot;The Vampire Diaries&quot; a happy ending is difficult. By the final season, they have well-established But if some characters are and the vampires could there's still the threat see their loved ones again. Also, if you end a vampire story with the vampires still vampires it's hard to be certain like they've spent eight So who's to say it won't go on forever? So to resolve this, basically the entire cast ends the series mortal. Alaric is human, Stefan and is now married to Caroline dies, but before he dies he injects Damon with his Bonnie uses which magic ensuring that all dead characters or in heaven. Oh, and remember that sleeping curse where Elena doesn't get to wake - I did. - You broke the spell? - Yeah, when they wrote in the curse, they specifically had the bad think about trying to undo this curse. If you even try, you will die instantly - This is the incredibly I rig this so that, so if you do try to outsmart - Then Elena wakes up and And she's like, how is this possible? - How? But I think figured this witch thing out. - And Bonnie is like oh yeah. It turns out I could just undo it. So I ended it. It was kind of hard, but it This is the best I'm glad Elena Caroline and because that's the heart - Oh my God. - Oh my God, and we can be roommates because we have an extra bed and we can clear out half. - I can't believe you're really here. - All along, the strongest ship So Stefan is dead. Tyler is dead. Enzo is dead. Jeremy is alive. Good for him. Matt miraculously, both survived and stayed human the entire series. And he's a cop now. I think the only main character to stay a vampire is Caroline. She and Alaric opened an X-Men school for Halloween monster If you will, a monster high, if you will. Well, I choose I'll just use both. There's now a spinoff show about the monster school So I assume both Alaric and I was impressed by just how many actors they even if they were killed Elena's parents come back the whole series, Vicki comes Ew, who invited uncle John? Bonnie's grandma comes back. Caroline's mom comes back. Enzo comes back. I wonder if we're gonna see... No, no, they can't afford him. He's way too famous now. Nobody knows you the Look in my eyes I They did it. They brought this spooky crow back. Considering the kind of I think it has a pretty perfect finale. They have all these callbacks to the beginning of the series, They have dialogue callbacks. Elena is writing in her diary again. They play the same dramatic The Fray song that they Don't let me go Don't let me go As if everything wasn't tied they even have an epilogue about how Elena and and then show us them and being reunited with (thunder rumbles) (upbeat music) There's a fire Number 26, missed opportunities. Considering &quot;The Vampire I am both sad and surprised to say that there were plot which they never delivered on. Firstly, I feel like I say this about all villains in liked to see Katherine I think the actress was so much more fun as Katherine and part of her But there are moments that hint at more, like there's some kind In some seasons, she's like a loose cannon, and sometimes her interests There's one episode where and Katherine offers So when she gets attacked, In another episode, after and Elena's a vampire, where Elena has to convince these vampire So she has Katherine walk They should have cooperated hi-jinks like that. A doppelganger is such a useful resource. We could have had a real sister sister situation on our hands. Why my doppelganger from the and you didn't even notice. They could have at least but we don't even see probably because it's annoying to film. And when they do interact, it's almost always with boring contempt. The series ends with Katherine but sent to hell. And then they destroy hell, which I think is about as as it's possible to get. Speaking of redemption and ask for the biggest I think they should Yeah, that's right. And there's more. All the sexy bad boys in this by one of the girls. And Bonnie and then devil They're both psychic It's like I said before, take naps, kill the devil, get a boyfriend. But now it's take naps, get a boyfriend, the devil is your boyfriend. They have that stupid was tortured by the village people, his anguish caused a psychic shockwave so powerful that it which became hell. And when Enzo was killed, Bonnie's anguish caused the same thing. But instead, she created keep Enzo's soul safe These later seasons Sounds like the devil's from old Bonnie, and by a lesson I'm thinking a church wedding. I mean obviously, my first pick is she And my second pick is she but if both of them are off This character has an actual But since he is the devil I only want to call him the devil. In a way it's fitting, Bonnie is the most powerful about dating bad boys, I a bigger flex than redeeming Anyway, better the devil than The next thing I wish Yeah, &quot;The Vampire Diaries&quot; three original cast members of Just Add Water. I just feel like the heaven and earth to get At least as like a villain how could they not, but no, ended up transplanted to the originals. So maybe they granted my wish on that show but honestly I doubt it. The originals has never done I found it weird we never got They had a traveling carnival come through town now and then, than an hour's drive from I know the fictional town is but I don't really care. I just really want to cross over Six Flags and ride monster mansion. I wish I could ride monster mansion. Mark my words, Six Flags. If you ever get rid of monster mansion I will never go to your theme park. If I go to your park, I will I won't ride anything else. Anyway, maybe legacies will do this. It's not too late. Next thing I noticed something stupid. Like it's stupid that I noticed it. I don't think any young people Like none of them. I'm not even certain any of I that's just kind of weird. Right? It's weird. Isn't it. Anyway, that's all I Next thing, nobody got a dog. That's just another thing. Nobody in this town has a dog. Next thing. It's time to get into L. She has a lot of paranormal YA series and I think they should have Riverdale brought in other Archie comics properties like Josie and the Pussycats. And I think &quot;The Vampire done the exact same thing. You don't need to limit because all of L. J. about sexy boys from various The CW did adopt L. J. which is about sexy witch boys, that series is also owned So L. J. probably didn't get It got one terrible season And it deserved it. But we don't have just sexy We have sexy psychic boys, Yeah, she just did vampires again. At least she owned it this time. And my personal favorite sexy boy of unclear supernaturality who sucks you into an evil Guess which series I Yeah, shock surprise, it was the board game one. And in the third book, they For some reason, the cover features famous midway (man laughs) Very sexy. Actually just learn that the board game by Warner Brothers and might be getting a TV yes, please. Can you tell your PR for this series? I'm an influencer, look Nevermind. Can you send me a copy of You guys I'll say anything you want me to. Am I damaging my credibility right now? Send me the board game. Anyway, I think any of these could have and should have been Imagine you're watching season six and the gang gets sucked The show has spawned two spinoffs and neither one has a They're just taking supporting characters from &quot;Vampire Diaries&quot; and If you want to do spinoffs why not bring in a series I'm just saying maybe secret if it started out as a crossover. The last thing on my It's Dracula. I really want to Dracula to show up. Can't tell me it's too corny. 'Cause the show was already plenty corny. I feel I was owed Dracula and on him or whatever. Make him look young or old, make him act modern or I just wanted him for Like the cast is fighting of the week, feeling pretty And then Dracula rolls into town. I think it should be illegal and not feature Dracula. That's it, I've said my piece If I'm making demands, freaky, bald bat, monster I demand Nosferatu. In conclusion, &quot;The Vampire Diaries&quot; felt like it ran way too long meandering aimlessly, &quot;Vampire Diaries&quot; faults. I feel like it's almost of a show that's produced this way. The writers never knew how stretch the story out. So they never knew how much That's how you get characters dying and then being brought you want to make big moves but you can't commit to anything. So then that weakens the impact of everything that does happen. That's also how you get like the college storylines which are just a lot of wheel spinning and which you can skip entirely I think this show could have had a really solid five seasons. And I'm not saying they should have ended after this season five because seasons four and But I'm saying that if the writers had that they were plotting out five seasons they could have kept it really tight. Things would have probably and been a lot better. Also in my opinion, it should have ended when And when they left for college you didn't get the sense that The writers had been waiting to bust out. It was just like they were half-heartedly trying to think of stuff. Oh, I guess they'll go to a frat party. So just stretch high school for however long you're writing the show or maybe go one year after high school but use that time to have them travel go on adventures, raise the and set up what all these in their lives or after lives I guess. The writers seemed to both in the sense that the and in the sense that a lot And in my opinion, this show was at its best when it was The cast was generally really solid even a lot of the short-term I also liked that it was helmed by a woman and that she She seems nice. I stand Julie Plec, I guess. Also good for her that and power over both the spinoffs. Get that coin girl. Unlike poor L. J. Smith. And unlike me for that matter there's no way I'm making After I had the goal to use clips from the show I'm talking about and the clips have that Enjoy your pennies, Katy Perry. I wouldn't be making this So either thank them or blame them. I find so much to like in this show that it's sad to see by the bad parts, like or the way they handled Bonnie's character like a total bus crash. The kind where the bus is And the problem is wearing a magic ring. So it never dies. I feel like whenever I do see of this show, it's not about any of It's not even about the cheesy dialogue or the bizarre plots or because none of them have ever It's just because it's for teenage girls and that's So I'm glad we could have this nuanced conversation here today. And it only took several hours. I guess I'm cautiously optimistic that the newest series &quot;Legacies&quot; can give needed improvements to &quot;The Vampire Diaries&quot; formula. I feel like I'm supposed to say whether I recommend I just spent a really long time talking about the entire show. If you can't make an informed I don't know what to tell you. I wouldn't recommend it for myself. It's just a really big time commitment. I hate the act of recommending TV shows. It's like, &quot;Hey, would you like an 80 hour experience where you enjoy 35 of them?&quot; But a lot of people really like most of them are bad Like they'll just watch in a given year and maybe So how about if you binge watch entire You should watch this one. Just add it to the pile. Just skip seasons four and five and maybe six, seven as well. You'd think that would you can just use context clues. I believe in you. Besides they have all that really graceful expository dialogue. - Last time a witch linked She fried my brain and I lost my memory. - So your (indistinct) Anything else I should know? - I'm gay and your brother. - And if you are confused you'll be confused in a funny way. Just embrace it. How about if you like &quot;Buffy,&quot; watch this, it's better than &quot;Buffy.&quot; And whatever you do, don't That's my job. So yes, that's my review You can slap that right and then shrink wrap the Blu-ray together with a novelty piece of (upbeat music) There's a fire There's a fire That old feeling Deep inside Called me again Burst here and turn away Take the easy way The stars at night The sun by day They shape our dreams And light the way Maybe you feel alone Maybe you drown in sorrow Maybe your life's a bore Baby you've got tomorrow Precious life We all live in there Precious life Send your spirit In to stay And search the darkness for a face It seems all right I feel like I I need to make you understand But you'll find out In your own time Maybe you feel alone Maybe you're drowning in sorrow Maybe your life's a bore You will die tomorrow Precious life We are living now Precious life Precious life Precious life, precious Precious life Along with all my VPD swag, I ordered a real vervain bracelet. Like it has real pure verbena It turns out vervain by There's no way Elena tricked her aunt into wearing perfume of this stuff. There's no way the town water wasn't undrinkable when There's no way vampires who are supposed to have a would try to compel Elena without immediately smelling In fact, there's no way you could walk into a human gathering wearing this without everyone in the &quot;What is that smell?&quot; It's not even bad in an interesting way. It's just so bitter. It smells like if celery was mad at you. I don't care how many quirky theme parties they throw every year. If the tap water in Mystic Falls comes out smelling like this, I am moving away.