In today's chess video, I'll show you If you're a beginner or don't have much about which opening to play, then this is These openings are fundamentally strong, yet So, just prepare for these &amp; you'll thank Alright, let's begin with white. I want you to start with d4, bring out your Then e3, knight f3 to support this pawn. Bring out the other bishop. Then c3, and finally, knight b to d2. The good thing about these moves is that they good setup without worrying too much about So, your first 7-8 moves are sorted. This is what we call the London System. Let's see how this looks in an actual game. As white, you'll play the standard moves e3. And now here if he plays bishop d6, don't Instead, just move back to g3 so that if he and then attack with your rook. Okay, let's continue with our natural development reach this position. This is the ideal opening setup for white this. Your bishops are well placed along these open center. So, you can slowly consolidate your position king like this. You can also go for a pawn storm and castle Or you can break open the center with e4. Now, the London system is a positional, or aim to reach a specific position on the board, he plays something crazy. But if you're an attacking player, you'll boring setup-based openings, give me something Well, for that, we have the tactical openings, We start with e4. Look, d4 generally results in positional games, options. So, after e4, the most common move you will Knight f3, Knight c6, is all standard stuff. Now here you can go for the Italian opening, From here, two of the most popular moves for If he plays bishop c5, then I would suggest And usually, black would play knight f6. Then you go for d4. If black takes, you can take back and then which we call the Greco gambit. I have made a separate video on this - so Going back, in this position, if black plays knight to g5 and then put pressure on this He can block with d5, but if he's not careful, gone. That's what we call the fried liver attack. This is another interesting gambit, where king. I have made a video for this as well; you button above. So that was the Italian game. It's a tactical opening - which means, play according to your opponent's moves. Guys, if you're enjoying the video so far, Okay, now what if after e4, your opponent This is the Sicilian defense, another popular To counter this, I would suggest you learn A lot of black players like to see the open comfortable with. So, a setup that I would recommend for white knight to c3. Not only does this reduce the attacking options variation for white to handle since there Anywhere he goes, be it knight c6 or d6, you pieces - fianchetto the bishop, strengthen you can play, then bring out this knight. And just advance on the kingside &amp; attack As white, you can't go wrong by much, just very good position by the middlegame. Okay, now let's look at the 3 openings for BetterHelp for sponsoring this video. BetterHelp is a great online platform focussed Well, the pandemic and the social isolation to take care of our mental health. When we're feeling low &amp; our everyday life take the help of an expert. We need someone to hear us out and give us And BetterHelp gives you exactly that! You can be anywhere in the world, and just preferences, BetterHelp will match you to in your area of concern. You can connect with your counsellor over them. And you can even change counsellors, if required. That makes BetterHelp so much more convenient Plus, it's completely secure as all counsellors So basically, BetterHelp wants you to start All you need to do is sign up with this link: to get 10% off your first month. Link is in the description box below, so go Alright, now let's look at some good solid We again start with a setup-based opening. Against d4, you can go with knight f6. Now white can't play e4 because of this So, let's say he goes to c4, then g6. Knight c3, then you can fianchetto the bishop. And now the moment he goes e4, that's when You don't want him to push e5 &amp; attack your Then knight f3, and you simply castle. This is what we call the King's Indian setup, anything. Let's say instead of d4, white starts with As I told you earlier, if he plays e4, you'll advancing forward. This opening is called the Pirc Defense, but He'll take the center, now you can play He defends the pawn. Then g6, bishop g7 and look at this, you reach I have made a separate video showing all the check it out here, I'm sure it will be helpful Before I move on, I've noticed 70% of my So do subscribe guys - it's absolutely Okay, now you might say, 'Jeetendra, in the center to white, that's not how I like from the start!' So, if you want some d4 d5 action, then be C4 is by far the most popular move that white Now at a beginner level, I would suggest you solid like e6 or c6. It's a fundamental opening &amp; proven to be Now as black, you can first complete your e7, castles - your king is now safe. And once the kingside is sorted, you can develop The bishop has to come out from here. So, b6, then bishop b7. After this, you can get your knight here. And then, push this c pawn forward to open Obviously, your games will look different, Basically, the queen's gambit declined is pieces on the right squares to form a strategy It's not that fast, and not that slow either, But still, some of you might say, 'Jeetendra, so, show me some sharp attacking openings.' Well, for that, I would suggest you to try Knight f3, d6 is all standard stuff. And then white's idea is to exchange this knight. This is the open Sicilian. Now there is a lot of theory in many different simple, I would suggest you stick to the King's means knight f6 and then you can play g6. We call this the Sicilian Dragon variation. After this, you can fianchetto the bishop to the King's Indian. This variation is quite easy to play since And at the same time, you also get into a you have a lot of attacks &amp; tactical ideas. Say, for example, just after a few moves, Now both sides will push on opposite sides leading to some very sharp games. This opening has a very good win percentage a shot &amp; do let me know how it goes for you. Alright, so it's puzzle time. In this position, it is white's turn, and for white. Do share your answers in the comments section Let's see how many of you can solve this. Guys, don't forget to like and subscribe,