Power and elegance - Africa's big cats. We think of them as kings, ruling But not all their neighbours Especially the hyenas. They have a lot in common. Lions live and hunt in prides, hyenas in clans. They're both extremely They compete with different And for millions of years they have In the dawn light granite domes of the northern Serengeti. These rocks are the headquarters The many cracks and crevices are perfect places for three The dawn's early rays bring out of the cracks, A mother's tail is for nieces and nephews, too! All is ease. But her pride has uneasy On the flat grassland just spotted hyenas hide their young Their territory overlaps the These bitter competitors regularly At this early hour, Here and there a few mothers are But the hyena clan is much bigger only it's rare to see all Most of the time, the adults Their lair has space in half a dozen separate holes. Hyenas are scarcely related to the Their history as scavengers Five million years ago, the spotted adding impressive hunting skills On the rocks, things are quiet. Two adolescent males At eighteen months they'll soon The young females usually Females are the heart of the pride. They conquered this territory, and they defend it against These powerful &quot;kings&quot; They generally keep their distance. They're rarely involved in the Their job is to keep foreign males Then their strength and The rest of the time they're The lions' territory stretches across narrow waterways and the broad plains, dotted On the open plains, it's hard to A female out hunting on her own. This way, she's less conspicuous. Warthogs: speedy and wary. In this broiling heat the lioness Another prey has caught her eye. This warthog family, just seems to be behaving The mother waits to the last Then, counting on her speed, she Knowing she doesn't have a chance, But something has captured Though the warthog is way ahead, She has discovered, why the warthog Her rear left leg is injured. She can barely run. She must have hoped the lion Her bluff was called! But she saved her young. Success immediately One of the local hyenas The lioness can deal But the moment she's outnumbered So she tolerates her rival. As long as the hyena is eating, They all know the way it works! The lions' biggest prey are the buffaloes that stroll They're too big for the hyenas. They're pretty big and they'll defend each other. But the rock lionesses found cut off from the herd. Now they must separate the Easier said than done. One of the pride kings The females can't penetrate The male would have It doesn't matter here the buffaloes aren't The three lionesses try again, A frontal attack against The calf loses its bearings A chance - for one But the mother comes straight Now only strength and bulk The male's arrival It's a standoff. The buffalo cow does Ward him off till the herd returns. But she turns her back. A fatal error. The King usually depends on This time he earned With hyenas, males play At the den, a female He won't dare fight back! Hyena females have far more And that has The females grow a &quot;pseudo-penis&quot; - next to the teats that feed The females are bigger and And the males must treat their Better not provoke a row. Because in this powerful all the females outrank And since mothers protect strong females have So a young male can bully a rival If the victim dared object the attacker's mother would As soon as they reach males leave their clan and join where they have to work their Sons of higher status mothers in the new clan, too. Because they're more confident, they fight their way up more And so their mother's genes than the genes of Hyenas rarely disobey the rules. Lone hyenas know, that they can when it's needed. For instance, when the carcass Vultures are usually the first This dead giraffe is around The scavengers should have But in fact they eat Because as the food diminishes, A couple more gulps will carry the There's plenty of squabbling. Time is short. Because the full hyena back-up Scavengers are vital Without them, carcasses would rot huge amounts of When hyenas shoo the vultures away, Vultures could conceal The birds have now eaten and there's ample left The females especially will so they can return to Now the lions of the Rock Pride Hyenas have had 20 million years to Even the tough hide of a giraffe With a pressure of 800 kilos hyenas have the most powerful jaws Their digestive fluids do the rest. The kings of the savannah won't but they're late to the feast, and the hyenas haven't wasted For the giraffes, this sight seems It's as if they're taking their The lioness has come a long way - and she's been seen from The hyenas have their warning. The lioness scatters to be sure there are no before advancing to the remains A second lioness joins her. Both vent their frustration They're all too aware they The giraffe is bones and skin. The hyenas and vultures The Rock Pride's from the granite mounds, deep into The lionesses return to their stony base overlooking The granite rocks offer a multitude The pride's third lioness Her three cubs, just Lion babies - like those of all At birth each weighs just For weeks, the babies are helpless; Now, their mother is keeping them who are a bit older These delicate babies New-born hyenas are tiny This one is three days old But hyena babies enter the world and with sharp teeth! And they need to use them The mother gave birth far away She then hid her young Spotted hyenas can have but usually they have one, or two. Nearby another female has found but this one is a couple The two mothers know each but barely pay each other The neighbour's baby This infant scarcely knows The hubbub around the central lair Mothers lie with their young passing on nourishment Hyena-milk has more protein than It also has an extremely high This mother's second baby no longer Ever since he was born his sister Milk is vital for the development Some females suckle It's a terrible strain But she can't bring meat It would be stolen at once, And of course she won't share her precious milk Two weeks on. The three lionesses have brought Unusually soon - normally But as they grow the age Meeting at the rocks every day, Lionesses in a pride often give When males conquer that usually starts a new Mothers try to concentrate on But it isn't always possible. Sometimes you just have to suffer In the heat of the day the rocks But the countless splits, are home to more than lion cubs. Lion house has many inhabitants - from tiny elephant shrews to reptiles and birds. The rocks warm up during the day and the cracks offer natural Red-headed agamas and get on well together. The warm rocks help The lion cubs are safe, as long But when the lionesses the cubs spend many hours alone And this is when snakes The warm slabs of granite are home to rock pythons that can crush and suffocate A lot of lion cubs become Especially among the Rock Pride. And yet the lions are only Though not yet fully grown, this python could already The cubs are inquisitive - and clueless. Their mothers are very careful. Python bites may not be poisonous, The lionesses remove their young A nip on the neck and they fall and can be carried anywhere. The snake is unsure - normally it encounters only the It can't have reckoned with The python is in danger. One of these blows could It retreats to the cover of a bush. It's safe from the lions here. At least for the moment. After all the excitement, a deep draft of warm milk The Rock Pride relaxes, but the After an hour it emerges. Seriously marked by its wounds. It seems the scent of the lion cubs The mothers have finally They surround the python. It has little fight left. Now there's only one option. To slide away, dragging Disappearing into one of This pride will always be in danger But the rocks bring that they will never leave. Snakes rarely threaten hyenas, In the late evening a group It's rough. And this is no place for newborns. Until now this mother kept her baby Now she's ready to attempt The central lair is always guarded their young are safe To enjoy that protection, the mother must accept the hectic Her relatives are curious One female hyena becomes even though she's younger and But as her own mother this young intruder and she can challenge Normally this young one would win. But here, a delicate baby The mother forgets the rules, and puts the younger female in And then she takes her The cold night cools tempers. The mother has secured the place who at last can feed. Over the next few weeks the new She only emerges a few minutes She must grow, and gain so she can pit herself against Fifteen mothers live here, and more in front of the entrance to the It looks like they're playing. But this isn't fun. Again and again there are flurries It's anything but playful! Sisters and brothers are especially The struggles over status because the young inherit So siblings are always bitter sons will eventually depart To rise in the clan a sister The stronger ones force the weaker A quarter of all hyena At first, they don't know So the adults have to impose At nine months, the young Two months on. The Rock Pride have left The lions are wandering through the The young no longer need the The cubs are still inseparable - and so the three mothers The great males spend little time with the females and But they always stay close by. This they must, to protect from the constant threat It's the end of July. The wildebeest herds of the They make the long journey because are suffering their annual drought. On the way the Mara River is and on the far side greener Every year the wildebeest Along much of its length, the banks Even a fifteen-metre near vertical Once the first wildebeest nothing will stop these Miraculously most survive After the cliffs, crossing Unless there are crocodiles! This one floated in on the current. Right now it's still harmless. But when it turns around and swims it can manoeuvre to attack. Now it's ready. The wildebeest seem unaware The crocodile just On the far side the migrants There's an unusual guest A wildebeest in colouring, but In fact this is a young zebra. He's what's known as a A rare combination of two genes increased the dark pigmentation Grazing with wildebeests, the but beside other zebra His prospects are not rosy, because predators will instantly He's in much greater danger than his black and white relatives. The great herds bring far less for the Rock Pride: nomad lions that follow Their often adolescents with They survive by following These gatecrashers are a danger If the old pride males they could be attacked That would destroy the structure And it would mean a death So the wildebeests' arrival means but the risk of violence, For hyenas the giant herds are They will seek out ill and weak But they need to be careful They are not afraid of hyenas! Right now, it's raining a lot more than in the south. That's why the wildebeest are here. The hyenas are fine with Their preferred hunting technique Unlike cheetahs, hyenas are They have the most powerful hearts They can run for five kilometres Wildebeest are faster but they can't keep up The hyenas seem to be scattering but they're looking for calves, that are easier to bring down This time they're out of luck ... and they've ruined the The hyenas would steal any prey It's not worth the trouble, Even though, they have to take against the marauding males, the Rock Pride find Three months of unlimited prey The endless migrating columns Every adolescent wants to test He still has a lot to learn. And his lack of discipline, She's lost her chance against the Now, another lioness Together they separate an emaciated For such experienced hunters, A rainy afternoon. Time for the hyenas to hunt. The cool evening hours are ideal They approach the herd alone The wildebeest don't seem to They simply carry on grazing. The hyenas gather. The nomadic lions are And there are some calves The herd scatters in panic. But the huntress keeps her focus A calf has lost contact The hunter won't let loose now. The hyena still has while the wildebeest calf is A second hyena joins for the kill. Hyenas don't have sharp claws. They grip their prey and wrestle them to the ground. A pair of young nomad lionesses Facing so many hyenas, For a while the clan But then the male nomads arrive. Lionesses will chase hyenas away, So the hyenas withdraw. It's not worth risking for the sake of a couple of bites. Though it is frustrating! The lions enjoy their stolen meal. The call is answered. Within a few minutes almost all 20 hyenas! Now the big cats must hold This situation could The force of numbers begins The lionesses are nervous. But the two young males, aren't They're still hungry. The hyenas won't win The lions prove once again Most young lions live from carrion until they're skilled enough, The &quot;king of beasts&quot; claims But as so often, the &quot;Lord of the Grasslands&quot; in the middle of the night, and not The cubs won't care, as long as But these princelings of the Rock With their fathers getting older, and the lion challengers stronger And since their conflict with these young lions will soon be