- Hi it's me, Tim Dodd, I think it's safe to do this now because we are socially distant, we are far away from everyone, we are following safety protocols, but I am here at launch complex 39A. This is at Kennedy I am standing right in front riding on top of SpaceX's You know this rocket, it can land itself. It's flown like 85 times or something, it's just this reliable workhorse rocket that SpaceX has been flying And I'm here because this day is a really really exciting day. NASA is sending crew on top of a rocket for the first time in almost nine years. Almost nine years exactly. The last crew that took off from this exact launch pad, actually from launch complex 39A was STS-135. That was July 8th, 2011. And that was the last has put people into orbit. So this is a really big deal. Tomorrow from right here about 24 hours from right now that rocket's going to take off and it's going to be sending up into orbit and to the International Space Station. Now if you need a timeline on launch day all the way I've already got you covered with a video. Now if only there was a couple more questions to because there's a lot of exciting stuff that I think a lot of want answers to. Who could that be? I gotta stop doing that joke. You guys have read the title of the video, it's not like you don't know what I'm doing right now. (laughing) Oh, I wonder what Hey guys. - [Both] Hey. - [Tim] How's it going? - Good, how are you? - [Tim] Fantastic. Okay I've got smorgasbord of Jim if you could stand I would love to shake your hand, but- - I know, it's sad isn't it? - Yeah, I'll just throw Right there is a mic, if you wouldn't mind micing yourself up, that would be fantastic. And Elon, if you wouldn't mind - Sure. (Elon whistling) - And then rolling on that, rolling here. Hi guys, congratulations, we are basically 24 hours away from seeing humans return American rockets, - You've heard that before? - [Tim] Yeah, we've heard it - That's good. - Cool. I think the biggest thing I wanna, well first off congratulations to a big 2020 for you so far, you've had a kid. (laughing) You have a rocket out there on the pad waiting to have astronauts go And you're working on You're still doing everything with Tesla, you're a very busy person. But I wanted to set a record straight straight off the bat. I want people to hear from both of you the beautiful partnership and how far back it goes and that it's not NASA versus SpaceX. - Oh that's right. - Absolutely. - Yeah, Elon if you don't mind just tell us the history started working together - Sure, well, I mean this actually could but basically the whole was actually to try to Or at least the way I was I tried to figure out and then I thought well public excitement in Mars, so I initially started off with the idea of doing to send a small greenhouse to Mars to get the public excited And if I got the public excited then they would tell their to increase NASA's budget. (laughing) That was the goal. It was meant to be a philanthropic thing. And then I tried to buy to do this and ultimately that there's actually plenty of will to go beyond Earth but Like, essentially NASA needs that we need to increase the and so if we can give NASA that is moving faster and cost less and is more innovative, then that would be a way to So I love NASA and always have. And always will. - Yeah yeah, and Jim you weren't with NASA at the beginning of the COTS or even the, yeah, the but you've been around for a while to see the cherry get on the actually coming together, so tell us about what you've seen so far and how you've seen really step up to the plate. - Yeah, so SpaceX brings a very that NASA has been lacking quite frankly. SpaceX is really good even being willing to fail and then fix and then fly, test, fail, fix and they can reiterate very very fast. And we've seen that with Starship now. The willingness to fail is for a very long time. But it's what enables To rapidly iterate and improve. NASA has this history of and then every sub component and then every, you know, every piece of every and everything has to go And that slows us down. And SpaceX has been a great partner; make no mistake, they have pushed NASA, but I hope NASA has also come that is unique as well, so this partnership has been fantastic. And you're seeing the fruits of it; you'll see it tomorrow, for sure. - Yeah, there's no question that SpaceX would not be where As the saying goes, we're only here because we stand upon - Yeah and then you're I feel like. It's a high bar. I mean we're inside the this is where the, and you guys flipped it the right way so everyone's looking out the windows. (Jim and Tim laughing) - That's like the biggest change. We modernized some of the decor, but most importantly so everyone can look at it that way. But this glass that's you can see it in the Apollo It's the same glass, same angle, it's been here since the 60s actually. It was modern looking. - Yeah, no, it's gorgeous. This glass has seen a lot of history. - Yeah, I mean, what an awesome view. It's incredible, like wow. - So I mean that's just for, SpaceX leased that pad in 2014. I was actually, that was the and Gwen was out here to release the pad. And I remember it being a big deal you know 39A, that's the launch pad. - Yes! - It's like opening a play on Time Square, this is the best location. The best launch pad in - By far and I mean obviously for those listening this where the people going to the moon every single one of them walked up, went up that tower, well a but out there on that pad, went to the moon, like 80-something space shuttle missions took off from 39A, I mean- - It's a great honor that SpaceX - There's a lot of history there. And we're still writing the history. The history is gonna be - Yeah, so, tell me a little bit- - I'm trying to... - Yeah, you're in the super this is gonna be the most but you know, we're rolling with it. But one of the fun things for me is watching the cargo All of the sudden we had Dragon one, now we have crew Dragon and it's substantially So tell us, what's been to transition from cargo into crew. 'Cause crew is a little more important than cargo. - Yes, I mean cargo can And so the level of scrutiny, I mean I don't know, an it was already high for cargo. But it's just a whole So, and I told the SpaceX team that, you know the this mission reliability is it is the only priority right now. So we're just doing from now, nonstop, 24 Just going over everything And I was out at the pad just recently just walking down the rocket; we've got a team that's just in the horizontal. Then we're gonna rotate it vertical, then we're gonna crawl And we're just looking for any possible action that could improve the no matter how small. Whether that comes from an - And this is just the beginning of, I mean we're seeing a lot between partnerships with SpaceX and NASA. I think the one- - There's been a great partnership. Like I said, I love NASA. I literally had IloveNASA as my password. Technically it was IloveNASA9!. (all laughing) 'Cause it would be too Was the nine because - I think yeah yeah, it was. - Nice, nice. So I want to know, you guys have dropped some surprises on us just in the past couple months we have Dragon XL flying on I didn't see that coming at all. What is DragonXL? What's its heritage? What is it? - Well, I think probably I to what's happening tomorrow and then we can talk I always love talking to you so it's like, (stammering) but we gotta stay. - We gotta stay on, okay. - Like when I said this this is the only priority. So other stuff is nice, - What I will tell you and this relationship between SpaceX and NASA, has been sufficiently meaningful to where we are now looking at how we do all of our business models. And that includes how we're It includes how we're gonna get to the surface of the moon. This business model has First on commercial resupply now on commercial crew. I will let SpaceX and Elon about what the details entail, but, and obviously he's not ready but I will tell you that the relationship has proven to be tremendously valuable and that the business model has proven to be tremendously valuable. - Yeah, well I mean because and a Dragon capsule for an initial investment of $400 million. - Right. Nobody thought that would work, basically. I think, yeah. That was not expected. That was like, I think at the time viewed that you know to basically, to some degree, at least by a lot of the oh let's just you know give to be quiet and then, you know, they'll stop bugging us, basically. - It was definitely a hail Mary. - And then it worked. - Yeah, it was a hail Mary. A commercial partner launching I mean, rendezvous with the it was already this huge long checklist of okay sure, yeah I have to do that, okay I'll have to do that too. And now we're just seeing we're seeing it to the point of being, you know replacing the of carrying humans on top of it. I mean that's like the - Yeah. - Well, the flag has been up there since 2011. And if all goes well, that was last placed there by the space shuttle nine years ago. - And Doug was on that mission. Doug Hurley. So he, did he actually It'd be pretty cool if- - I'm not sure, but- - It would be pretty cool. - I mean there's a certain - There really is. And the same launch pad. I mean the whole thing is What do you guys think as I mean we have next up already, you already have another I mean, and it's been expanded This mission's expanded to a month plus? - Yeah, I'm not sure - If the final amount of do you know? - No, it's very flexible on So we wanna make sure that We have a target date for And between now and then if crew one is ready to go, Bob and Doug, we're gonna bring 'em home. If we need to extend 'em a little bit, we'll extend 'em a little bit. We wanna get as much out of as we can. And so that's what we intend to do. But the big three factors when we think about the flexibility on the backend of this mission, the big three factors which for this mission have Although we will learn on orbit- - Yeah, we'll, exactly, there's a lot to be learned. - They could last longer, But we're assuming 114 days at this point. And then of course the weather and I think if all goes well. I've been really clear with our number one priority is and to get Bob and Doug home safely. - Absolutely. - That's the highest priority. I would also like to say, you mentioned that this is the I really think that that's We are transforming in how we access space in general. We're NASA as a customer, one customer of many and we expect SpaceX as you know to go get lots of And that's gonna drive down our costs. And we wanna have not just SpaceX, but other providers that are competitive on cost, on innovation, on safety, basically creating this And then we're using, the to create the commercial for microgravity. Whether it's pharmaceuticals, printing of human organs in 3D, advanced materials, artificial retinas, I mean there's so many on the ISS right now. And if NASA accomplishes its objectives, we're not just gonna and commercial crew, we're gonna have we're gonna be landing so this is the shuttle replacement, that's not what this is, this is a transformation of how we do commercial space in general. - I'm not sure if the that there's a giant space I think probably a lot that this is the case. And it's enormous. - Yeah. - There's an enormous space station zooming around the earth 25 circling the globe every 90 minutes. When you see the pictures it and it does have station in the name, but it's extremely fast, it's going I mean, it's going you know like... - 17,500 mile and hour, 27,000 kilometers, it's screaming. - Yeah. - I mean, order of magnitude faster - Right right, yeah. And that, it's so funny 'cause there's been a permanent presence on the International Space Station too for what 20 years or something now? I mean it's been a huge an the exploration of NASA currently and it's fun to be able to we'll be able to get to the cheaper and NASA will continue to push and go back into deep space which I think it a really cool way to transition into the future, so. - Yeah, as the administrator was saying, you know this is, I mean, this is really, we want this to be the dawn of a new era. Where there's a rapid we're sending more and that we're sending both government and commercial astronauts to orbit. And generally opening up space for humanity. The ultimate goal being that anyone who wants to or maybe even Mars can go. It's like if you want to move there you can. Like that's the ultimate goal. - So but then how is that handoff look? 'Cause if commercialization opens up and NASA's the current gatekeeper how does, that transition's gonna be a little bit of a gray You know if Tom Cruise going to the International Space Station, who has the authority to say what goes on and all that stuff currently when commercial partners are - Well NASA, obviously. (laughing) - Well, remember, for now, right? And look, NASA, we have a job. Exploration, discovery, that's our job. But there's a whole which is development. And that's what commercial industry does. Commercial industry does development. So when we think about you know when people came to the new world and then they expanded west, right? They expanded west with a purpose, they were seeking commerce. The railroad got put It was put there for commercial reasons. And that's where we are right now at the dawn of this new Ultimately if the doing things in space it it will not be successful. There has to be a commercial motive to achieve the objectives - Yeah and we're literally seeing that. This is it, this is the - It is. - And that's, I mean, what I'm so excited that everyone, the public is finally seeing this. I'm seeing this everywhere, you know, I mean SpaceX has had some NASA's had some big missions recently. But this is the one and I am so excited to be here. It's unfortunate a lot aren't able to have the you know, concerning the circumstances, but it's so cool that we live in an era where we can bring this to everyone and everyone can get excited and have something forward to look, something to look forward to instead of the current - I really hope this is something that like everyone, no matter what their how they feel can be excited, they can look at this and - Yeah. - That's exactly right. Like this is a bright shining moment in a very difficult time. And we've had these in the past and this is what NASA a signal of hope in a time And of course we think back to the 1960s, we think about Vietnam, we we think about the civil rights abuses, we think about the civil rights protests, the country in turmoil, and yet, in 1968, we sent in 1969 we landed on the moon. That was probably one of in American history and yet we still achieved And here we are in the midst and we can still do magnificent things and that's what tomorrow represents. - Yeah, that's awesome. Well thank you guys for Best of luck tomorrow. - We're all gonna be tuning in, I'm telling you the public - Great. Thank you guys for everything, I'm gonna have to just and say thank you, but yeah all right, thanks guys. - Thank you, appreciate you. - Let me apologize. If you saw this in my ear, it's not because I have a producer, I just had my friend Trevor and that's it, that was it. There's CBS and CNN with all their big fancy cameras and stuff and then there's just me and I only brought two microphones because I didn't know Jim which was a huge surprise so it ended up being, like I'm like I'll give so if my audio sucks, I apologize, you're to the rescue. So I guess that's the Well, that exceeded quite literally every expectation I've ever had in life. I was just right there in which is literally where they and told the rocket that took humans to go to the moon to launch. Right there, I was there, You should watch the Apollo 11 film, the CNN films documentary on Apollo 11 that just came out last year for the 50th anniversary. You get to see a lot of shots It was stuffed to the brim with computers and it was facing the wrong way where people were not And it's just, being in there right now I'm just totally beside myself. Wow, what an awesome day. And tomorrow's going to be even cooler. And honestly I couldn't do it if it wasn't for the help So I you wanna help me and make awesome content about rockets and space flights, head on over to where you'll gain access to our exclusive Discord channel, and exclusive live streams. And if you wanna wear including a shirt where Elon's after we shut off the camera's he's like, you have arcadia planitia on your shirt? I'm like yeah, that's your for Starship with the exact coordinates and he just chuckled and So yeah, if you want your own and some reminders of the and also a reminder not to forget to wear a space suit if you're on Mars, if you want any other cool shirt like the full flow staged or pointy end up flame-y end down we got lots of cool at everydayastronaut.com/shop. Thanks everybody, that's I'm Tim Dodd, the everyday astronaut. Bringing space down to (funky music)