The lore of Elden Ring is in ruins. Literally. a thing came to be, but you succinctly tell the we even see future civilizations building upon the lessons therein. This video centers around the Echoes of a civilization of black stone that at influence can be seen in the golems, the fire the crucible, and even the mysterious Titans. so let's talk about it. Starting here with most intriguing thing in the realm of shadow. long robes and an octagonal headpiece. And it has in Rauh and in each spot, It just radiates power. kickstart this entire video. The Verdigris which is a real life term for the blue green Ring, verdigris is described as a corroded metal and yet the metal is also described as supple. which, instead of detracting from the quality of this isn't our only example of this phenomenon In delights too are enhanced by the rotting or the proposal. I think Verdigris is essentially another way, it's like the metal has fermented. even calls it a gift, a gift from an outer God rot. But unlike the scarlet rot, verdigris doesn't Verdigris is all about protection. This is a encounter outside Belurat. Coveting a pot that you head to toe in their weighty Verdigris, and his with a skill that actually just harmlessly pushes capacity that it will continue to protect its is that his forager brood are in good company, for strength, the strength to protect others. And this weighty entities known as the Guardian golems, one named so by their weaponry. These are protectors, way as you approach many of the fortifications the Caelid Coliseum, a divine tower, many appear ages. But there's a second set of places that help to define them Even more. Here at Caelid and here in the high road cave, we see the golems majority of Rauh. These ruins appear to be made the same hue as the black stone weapons of the crafted by a civilization now gone to ruin. So golems are connected to the black stone ruins, and The pillars in particular even have an octagonal headpiece of our Rauh queen. Now, while I do think civilization, these ruins are found all over the to call this the Rauh civilization. Instead, civilization from this point forwards. By the way, links to the black Stone civilization and to Rauh. one more piece of evidence that I think connects is at its core. Fromsoftware's idea of a golem which featured an iron golem that had a big concept was then repeated with these columns in an enemy near them because the disembodied soul and activate it. This idea returns somewhat that you can find in the ancient ruins of Rauh. and in the center of the stone is a small, nest at which point it becomes known as a sprite stone. spirit, and can also refer to an elf or fairy are useful. Sprites In Elden Ring do seem to be a fire sprites, for example, can be found within the across the ground. Then when released from a almost as if they have a will of their own. Of all most boisterous in nature. That wording of all more than just a couple of types of sprites. Now read a comment where someone proposed that as well. And I love that theory because these and you can't target them like a normal enemy. of nature is a great theory, I think, and I think As for the regular sprite stones, anyway, these which are noted to be particularly spiritually horn and a burrow. One can house and release a spiritual explosion and glittering lights. So Scholars Cookbook, crafting techniques left by the of rauh. It's a reminder of how ancient Rauh is still ancient ruins, and they saw great value in think the true purpose of the Rauh burrows might these sprite stones can be used as weapons, harness spiritual power and put it to use. And the civilization could have found, I think, would have and other traditional fromsoft golems, appear to by Nameless Singer, who is a creator that I'm Guardian golems, which burn at their core, might Guardian golems date back to Rauh, does that mean says that long ago It is said that a golem crafter a shard of impure crystal at any golem, they will attacking anything nearby for a time. Given were all built in the same manner to one another. aforementioned golem crafter. Crystal just seems is evidence of crystal being used by Rauh. The to control the spiritual explosions of the sprite Golem Smiths two have a red gem embedded in their golems, the ones that I feel most confident dating Golem Smiths. For starters, one of their ruined all of these forges have these braziers in common design. What's more, they're called ruined forges, black Stone civilization. As far as golems go, as they can commonly be found petting the molten so intently here might align with the part of the In ancient times, smithing was a divine act, perceived in the wrinkles of molten steel to imbue as they're called, have the ability to be and their crafting became a signature technique of the lands between. Over time, the most well known golem who launches his own fists as projectiles. be the runt of the litter and the first to stop deity of Smithery. Taylew reminds me a lot of would cultivate, who essentially were guides that later tutelary deities, Taylew is instead called reference to the Rauh culture of protecting others other Guardian golems. Interestingly, Taylew is being the first to stop moving. This makes he was the first to essentially die and thus think this is a little bit of extra proof that the forge is actually the one that's in Rauh, where be one of the earlier forges. The description despite being the runt of the litter, and this is of a derogatory attitude towards smaller folk in militia ashes, which state that the small were who committed the cardinal sin of being undersized terribly grotesque. Alas, belittling the short has to be this unstoppable trend downwards, like how Titans, and how the lesser trolls are descended giant Crusher has grown feeble in comparison to base game, the art of smithing is said to have likely lived among such giants and was thus even been built by them. The smithing talisman of was a divine act, which seems to be a reference hammer. in Rauh, You can also find the talisman attributes that were rumored to have sprouted were giants here. Of course, the black Stone ruins elevators in Rauh. With the exception of these like service tunnels or shortcuts for a smaller At the end of each ruined forge, we find a we find a clue as to what these people might have is one. And then at the lava intake forge, we find was indeed used as such in rite and ritual. Once thanks to their burrows. So I think it tracks might have been something that they valued as comes from the ruined forge of Starfall past. It's reads greatsword of ancient meteoric ore ending in an arrowhead that was once part of the Old Gods It's not actually a greatsword, but an arrowhead, but it's a mere shard of an arrowhead, which let alone the giant capable of firing it, must treasure of the forge. But the description says it from the buried remains of some ancient culture. who excavated it. Just think about that. Rauh remains. But even to the Rauh, there were even insane. And I think it would make the ancient if not the oldest, artifact we've come across in also, because the description mentions that this And who the hell are the old gods? No other they must have existed so far back that they've Whoever they were, the arrowhead generates an unlike anything else seen in game. The only other of light are the serpent Hunter, which manifests in the ancient past, or maybe the sword of light the electric white light generated by the that the old gods mentioned by the arrowhead Titans that are entrenched in the lands between to conceivably shoot something like this As an it's a popular theory that the Titans are those light within them. These are structures that purpose has been lost to time. The Divine Towers and might have even originally had a large piece the towers, where the two fingers eventually came meteorite is likely something that traces back of evidence that even suggests the Giants were to us from cut content, so I'm a bit wary of here it is. The legendary spell founding reign sorcery was once instead called Goliath's Reign reference to the giant from the biblical tale of But I do think, at the very least, that it proves that there was a veneration of starfall and form the foundations for many cultures of the and the fire giants, who seem to connect to Starting with the Fire Giants, the most damning are the pillars that prop up their forge, which architecture, however, the forge of the Giants baffling. It just has a lot going on visually, and just mere fire giants. It's propped up by black are attached on rings that depict great serpents. on the forge and its platforms as well, you'll patterns upon the divine towers. And finally, the dwarfing even the architecture of the black Stone I was kind of forced to reject the obvious idea I was forced to reject the idea that it was built we know. One theory I found that helps to explain who, in this video, points out that two of the don't connect to anything, which leads him to mobile blacksmith's forge. The smithing golems and while I personally can't find much evidence world of Elden Ring, tarnished archeologist depict mobile forges that could have been carried forges do exist, because this forge being able a few levels in this context. For one, I figure to handle without holding it by the chains. It is after all, and the giant's forge is far bigger imagine them being physically able to place it the Titans could. The name Titans, by the way, is gargantuan giants found all around the lands significantly more Titans near the forge than lands between. So, okay, let's assume that the reasoning take us? Could these Titans really have physiology is, on the whole, quite different from that the Titans also built the divine towers long could link them to the fell god. This discovery who wrote this really detailed post linking the note this recurring motif, which here features a of visual that we're faced with when the last fire Okay, so the Titans might have built the divine the fell god of flame, and they might have placed time of the black Stone civilization, assuming But then what? What could have caused these Titans archeologist, there might have been a cataclysm. civilization is underground, to a point that seems These ruins are encased so often within solid one side by stone, almost as if a wave of molten T.A notes, these waves appear to have assailed many points of impact from meteorites Perhaps. The and I do like this theory. For that reason, this becoming encased themselves in stone. It could shards of meteoric arrowheads from an earlier fire giants were physically displaced from the displaced from their fell god, the worship of Surviving amongst the smaller giants who, like better suited to live through an unprecedented disclaimer here, because this isn't just my usual of speculation. I basically just argued that the it must have been built before the fire giants. looks like a mobile forge, and that the modern thanks to a cataclysm of molten rock. That's a bit turn out to be wrong, then the subsequent theories said, this is still definitely the interpretation has reconciled a ton of questions I had about to believe it. But therein lies the danger, I I'll try to work it into a different video and the Titans set up the forge and then were wiped while making this video, and that was why did the the mountaintops in the first place? According to were once lords of the mountain tops long ago chased from the peak. Before I was having trouble build the forge so high up in the mountains. But set up by the Titans, then the Titans were wiped that would explain why the Fire Giants would have mountaintops. They were fighting for access to the reclaim the peak that held the Giants forge a source of the fell gods flame. Although again, into all of this, I do think the Fire Giants though I certainly don't think that they were the evidence of fire giants in Rauh per se, but the that looks suspiciously like they could have been Verdigris discus itself has that same signature nod again to the fell gods eye. And remember the god that is Scarlet Rot. So to have two outer is kind of crazy. And it might even support the which is a theory I really like proposed by user to me of a wider theme of nature being in balance point that will touch on more in the next chapter. in this pre-Erdtree world. The ice dragons were cold, long lived warriors clad in biting, freezing the fire giants since time immemorial. They were their ice. Or perhaps they feared the fell god to do in ages to come. But soon the fire giants a group who desired the peak for altogether Astrologists who studied the stars, in contrast the astrologers sought the icy mountaintops. stargazing in the lands between. We can look at or even the sky from Rauh. As some proof of this. flame, the astrologers who preceded the sorcerers touched the sky and considered the fire giants the word neighbors certainly seems to suggest is significant considering how the fire giants the astrologers were likely different. These we speculated, the giants too, might have adored had this in common. in the mountaintops of the singer points out as suspiciously similar to sorcery. With it, the glimpse of the primeval the stars amber rained down on this land. In this primeval sorcerers, exploring unrestrained lines For their discoveries unearthed many disturbing discovered them entirely. One such distasteful one's soul. In this way, the old sorcerers would their souls to die and rise again, provided imbued with a spirit. Where have we heard that eerily similar to the Rauh burrow, with a ridged a larval tear for the soul within. Earlier, we the burrows of the Rauh with their bondstone applicable for this similar ritual as well. So liked having the astrologers as neighbors. In have them settle nearby, for they both might trace been kin. Again, I do think that the founding Goliath's Reign of stars, might have been hinting in following this line of inquiry further, then excellent video on the topic. In it, they share rises, which actually feature a cross section and my project partner. Mispap also noticed that present here in Rauh. Nameless singer eventually have had a sort of alliance with the taller golems might cleave close to the same wisdom in they also point out that the primeval sorceress like torrent and rain. Words that might have to Rauh society. Now it seems paradoxical that who we've established have a strong connection And yet, that's what nameless singer proposes in Rauh did value flowing water, as did the black we'll address that paradox. And in Visit all of the black stone ruins sites in the by something from Caelid shore, to the seaside the mountaintops, highroad cave and more. Almost one could argue that it's the water that has But what if it's the other way around? What if water to this civilization? After all, some of the channels for conveying water. Thankfully, there's aqueous connection in the dewgem, which glows Said to have been used in the practice of sprite know that there was a productive use for the Rauh though I'm not sure we get access to any of these dew gem medicine that we have is the fingerprint attempt to turn humans into fingers. But since a I doubt it was one of the ancient sprite medicines the dew gem to Rauh simply because of its use importance of flowing water to the Blackstone the word sprite is quite synonymous with the word it's quite possible that the two biggest rivers or contain, a type of river spirit. The name a name of Irish origin that means elf or fairy, tales as well. So maybe it's no coincidence the power of dewgems which grow by the water further inside the flooded High Road cave. There's a 3 in 1 linking water, the ruins and the golems, dancer charm which itself references a fairy of the sealing of an ancient god, a god that was rot of how or when the rot God and its stagnant of a water spirit In this video. Rather, I'm more dancer charm presents. Namely, how are we supposed simultaneously venerated flowing waters while also How are we supposed to explain the fact that venerating a statue of a civilization that seems contradiction, I simply think that the black Stone with the rot, and maybe even with all of the but it's also a part of the natural cycle of verdigris and maybe even the similarly rotten god to eventually comes to be considered evil. But in the smithing culture of the giants, a smithing of this has made me wonder if the Outer Gods might Indeed, this idea reminds me of a theory proposed the Outer Gods might more accurately be considered these divine manifestations of nature. I'll leave that so affected the perception of these outer the Outer Gods were suppressed, these so-called baleful. To give an example of such suppression. of shadow with fire, that cleansing included the shadowy hornsent scholars who fight with the of one of Messmer's men who guards the path to down an old ruin at the risk of his own life. the hornsent were in Rauh. And so the purge of the reaching its apex here at the church of the we saw the silent figure of a woman here kneeling out. We know who this woman was. It was Romina. of the Bud. The church of the Bud, despite its hornsent. There are a few clues for this, but the the same pillar as those in Belurat, except this is of sacred importance to the hornsent, and they that stretches to the gods for them, it's a symbol I think it's no coincidence that this spiral bud obviously has a connection to rot with its of unfurling. Thus, it's a very fitting symbol the budding divinity of the scarlet rot, which is It was the bud that Romina clung to. You can here specifically, which is a scarlet glaive with Once in the crumbling, burning church, Romina burned to the ground, but here Romina discovered baleful scarlet rot. Perhaps, then, the buds might the scorched remains. So I believe this pole blade out of reach until the church burned down. And discovered a twisted deity as a result of their to change her. The scorpion, As we speculated of Rot's divinity, so the form of the Scorpion a centipede too. I guess the most interesting from Ramina's purification, which is the unique with scarlet rot butterflies before unleashing two a sacred act of purification. The idea of this coming from a weapon that inflicts scarlet rot. the Japanese call it, an exorcism? Who was using like there can be two answers for that. Option one which reminds me of the rotten tooth whip that and get them to ascend to sainthood. the hornsent the pursuit of divinity and dismissing any notions perhaps, since the pole blade of the bud was in rites as well. Option two is that the purification age that predated the hornsent. the hornsent all. Rather, they likely found it in the ruins of which they accurately identified as an aspect of the symbol of the small church deep in the as per the description of the scarlet bud, back touched by the scarlet rot's blight. Thus, the have been more of a positive thing. This supports positively rather than negatively to Rauh culture. what changed? That rot would become such a blight? so common in FromSoftware games that suppression will inevitably create pressure on some other we can look to Gwyn's suppression of the Dark in Elden Ring as other examples of that. In the the Blue Fairy and the Blind Swordsman. Then later and her flowing blade, and eventually her scarlet Romina, who reached out to them. She, too, had us that she found the twisted divine element be baleful is to harbor a harmful or destructive this baleful form, I think, could suggest that I will note that this description is significant I'm not claiming that Romina created the scarlet most ominous part of it in response to she was able to bring back the scarlet buds that by blight. Thus has Romina emboldened and She cannot burn the sealing tree behind the church she is likely content to be a haven to those be accepted as they were long ago. Before I start that Displate are having their Black Friday sale, save a ton of money if you want to decorate your link in the description also supports this channel is my newest Displate design and it can be which mirrors the world above. I just can't stop well with Displates magnet system, and I think your room that you can interact with to change there's another benefit to getting up close, and texture, giving it a more 3D look. Again, so click the link in the description and thank you of Shadow have grown larger in recent years owing become a far cry from their smaller ancestors, these larger scorpions have grown insect wings, legs as well, is a lot. And I say that as an which often presents as a chaotic conglomeration typically bear them. Our best example of such crucibles, which is a giant mass of intermingling this is found deep within Rauh, and these aspects where the vitality of the crucible flourished incantation literally tells us this, as remains ancient ruins. Our other piece of proof that Rauh Who can be found standing here, looking wistfully do. The Crucible knights are this disparate crucible was still looked upon without scorn. do not seem to know the true origin of the is the longest serving of the crucible knights, the crucibles origin, and departed from the lands she alone has undertaken pilgrimage to understand narrow the crucibles physical origin down to one of the tower of Enir-Ilim. It is so close to Rauh casts her gaze towards this structure. Perhaps the vitality of the Crucible flourished shadow, and the tower of the hornsent was sealed Devonia is lamenting that fact according to the crucible current that one day will form a column hornsent built a spiral tower suffused with life, deal of understanding about what the spiral of the such an enduring symbol in Elden Ring that I think It's in the braids of queens. It's in the weapons by the karolos Conspectus. Even the lone furnace spiral flame, almost as if it's become influenced no longer do I think that The Crucible is just quite a metaphysical concept that infuses but basically now I tend to think of The Crucible in a spiral as empires rise and fall, but always Yes, the Crucible might have a physical origin in in Elden Ring that I feel like there has to FromSoftware eventually expands on this topic, but there's so much I still haven't mentioned For example, I really wanted to talk about the which also has its story told in ruins, but I I just keep this video about Rauh. So I'm calling about the pre-history of Elden Ring, specifically, that can teach you a lot, so I'd highly recommend please check out Nameless Singer's channel as but considering just how much their I'm very excited to see what they put out next. isn't mentioned in item descriptions, I think it's different viewpoints if you can, because so much I think peer reviewing a bunch of different we can arrive at an accurate conclusion and that's what I'd recommend you do as well. And sources and secondary sources, you'll eventually most important and that's your own. Before I go, all the visuals in this episode. Special thanks to artwork for this series. Please give those