Well there it is, the complete &quot;completo&quot;, has It's really a tremendous thing, it's going to be tough, what a tough mission! Let's see... [Music] Guys welcome to a special edition, weona of Luisillo the fattie. In this occasion we will try to find the best Chilean &quot;completo&quot;. What is all this &quot;wea&quot; Luisillo? I explain to you: a few months ago, I uploaded a video to the Channel honestly, they were not the best, they left a lot to desire and the comments section was filled with people from Chile telling me: out the authentic &quot;completos&quot;, these are the good ones, these are the best in the whole world, you are not going to be disappointed, so today being in Chile, land of cabros, land of weones, we will go out to try the best recipes of &quot;completos&quot;. in Chile, they don't call hot dog to the sausages inside buns, here they are called &quot;completos&quot;. Why? Because they are indeed very complete. They put avocado on it, they put cheese, tomato they put the wea you imagine and you end up devouring a thick sausage, but delicious that nobody can deny, we all crave it. So well you know the dynamic, let's go to different places of completos to find out if indeed the ones from Chile are tastier and which is the best recipe. Let's weondarle! [Music]. Ok a little clarification, here people are already correcting me. They told me Luisillo you don't say wea. Wea refers to the testiculation, the correct pronunciation is wea so there you have it wea. And well, let's start with this. We are in the city of Vina del Mar, by the way Precious, divine and I'm told that one of the most emblematic ones are these ones here called Cevasco. They have five branches here, a few others in other cities and they have been around for more than 40 years. Located at the downtown area of this city, in what used to be the most iconic the best recipes, the best ingredients. Let's check it out. Hey wow, I get why are so famous these completos. See the size of these sausage. No no no, is imposing, is like that sticker from Whatsapp Wow, see this! My hand and three quarters of Luisillo's, the official measurement of this completo and look, I love the plate that is used, they tell me that this little plate is common in Chile for the completos, they put it this way so that it is high, to keep up to it. Now I'll tell you a little bit of the origin of the full name why it is called like that in Chile. Because you will see, the story sayas that around 1950-ish came the hot dog trend to Chile, it came traditionally like bread, sausage, ketchup mustard, period. And people were saying like this wea doesn't taste good, it's fome! Fome it's like boring, like it's not cool. Fome. It's lacking something. Back then, Chile was a big producer of avocado, so they had so much and it had not become more expensive at the level it is today worldwide, they said we're going to put avocado, let's eat it all green. After that they said, why don't we put mayonnaise on it too? Why don't we also put tomato? and since there were, at that time, many German migrants, they started to put sauerkraut which is the cabbage and here they called it chucrut. That's how they name it, chucrut. People tasted this recipe and said wow, this is delicious! So from there, every time you went to a place, people said: Okay I want the hot dog but give it to me complete, I don't want it like Americans give it to me complete. Complete complete and from there evolved the word to the point where today and forever it's always &quot;completo&quot;, but of course we're not gonna test it like this, we're going to test it completo. Let's go for a Chilean official recipe. Aye, thank you so much, Julio. How wonderful! Thank you! Oh, so on top of l I put more things? Oh wow. Very impressive. Very impressive Wow, well they sure are complete. Now before I go into detail with the recipes, we are going to drink it with Fanshop. That it's this orange beverage, which is basically Fanta with chope, with draft beer. I don't think I'd ever tried this delicacy and I've come to Chile several times. Mmm and it is really delicious. They put about a quarter of a cup of Fanta, the rest of the beer, preferably light. Here I had it made with Cristal beer, which is the local one and there remains this refreshing beauty, fanshop. I am told is a very typical companion for the completo. Now the recipes, this one right here is the &quot;full completo&quot;, which is as its name suggests, the most complete. That's how you ask for it, is an irony. Do you want the completo, complete? That's it. Which basically has the sausage, bread, avocado, tomato, chucrut, mayonnaise and the american sauce, which is basically a mix between cabbage, carrot, pickle. It's has a little bit of everything and then we have the recipe of the italian completo, this one we can't see it but down here it has tomato, it it's called italian well not really because it comes from Italy, but because the colors are the flag of Italy green, white, red. Avocado, mayonnaise, tomato and in addition to that Wow we can still add sauces or Wow, this is gonna be tremendous. Let's put a little bit of everything, a few good lines because if we ask for the complete completo, well make it really complete. Well there it is, the complete complete, the size of my face, is massive! It's really a tremendous thing How much does it measure my dear Vic, like 30 centimeters? 33. He is Vic, one of the managers of the place. Enough rodeo a lot blah blah blah little yum yum yum let's go for it! How do you put into your mouth such a sausage? It's easy to say but it's not. The reality is that the first bite, if we do not do this technique of professional Chileans, it's going to be just bread, the truth. This tip is all bread and we want sausage, then the technique is that you feel where's the sausage, you break that piece of bread. See there it is, there it is the sausage and then this bread, you can use it to eat it like this or you dip it, for example with some avocado other ingredients. There you have it, maybe if it is very &quot;mayonnaise&quot; what you can do is you remove the excess of mayonnaise with this, the use is the one that you what Now, that we've done that, it's still hard. Eating a full complete completo sounds like it's a dirty job. You lay it on it's side and basically it's biting from here then here. Look you will be getting confused. Well they say that the devil knows more by old than by devil, more knows the eater of completos by devouring sausages than by Chilean Let's go for it. It's going to tough, what a tough mission! Let's see. The sausage, yes, ingredients Hey wow, these are really brutal. The avocado in a hot dog, is something we have to start making in more parts of the world, it is really delicious. The only thing that I did not love about this recipe is the cabbage, I am not a big fan of cabbage it is a little acidic for me, but the truth is that it complements very well with the tomato, very well with the sauces Wow, and listen to me well because this doesn't happen a lot in Luisillo the fattie, I'm going to give it 10 out of 10, I mean it's...the size is massive, the ingredients very well I would take away maybe a little bit of the mayonnaise, maybe it was too much for me, but it's all regulating. This one completo as we are tasting, it has a price of 3,200 Chilean pesos, which at the exchange rate of today are about $4 dollars. The truth it's super worth it, with one of these you end up full and being honest, you're not eating wrong, you're eating avocado, you're eating tomato, it is, I feel somehow balanced, maybe too much mayonnaise, for sure but what is this life without a little good eating? How crazy, i'm remembering that New York hot dogs costed like 5 or 6 dollars, and they were really tiny, child's play compared to this eh child's play. Look that I had eaten completos on my previous visits but never like this eh where had this place been hiding all my life? It is simply majestic. If you get to be at Vina del Mar you know now for sure, I really recommend it, this is epic. [Music] We found this other place called &quot;La media naranja&quot; which is very nice, we were attracted by its ambiance, it's like an old canteen it does have the posters from the classic movies, the music. Is beautiful, now fun fact, this is a site of Chilean recipes operated by Venezuelans, which gives it a special spice, because I tell you in case you didn't know, the hot dogs in Venezuela also have their own they put a lot of sauces on them, they put chips, they put...it's another recipe, very different from the completo, but still very tasty. So let's see how about, here is respected the recipe of the complete, Chilean recipe. So let's try. For 2,500 Chilean pesos about $3.40 dollars, I have acquired a &quot;completo chacarero&quot;, this looks brutal, I explain to you: the chacarero is a dish it's a sandwich a sanguich, they call it here, that's basically meat, it can be pork or beef which is characterized by having chopped chili and green porotos. &quot;Porotos&quot; is this bean pods, and they dip it in there, they've got their avocado, mayonnaise, tomato it's like the complete completo but with a little extra something, the chacarero. This one we are going to accompany it, by the way, with a chopap, we're going to call i, I'm discovering that in Chile it's a whole culture to mix the beer with the soda, with the beverage, they call it here, with the soda. This is Pap, that Pap is like the cola flavor that they call it in South America, that it's like this yellow soda, like what is the Incacola, like what is the Colombiana, etcetera, etcetera. This same flavor that really is very tasty. They tell me that it doesn't have an official name, let's call it chopap. What a tastiness, what a delicacy. And now, this site justifies its prices very well because for the 2,500 they already include an order of fries. Look, to a good potato, you never say no. I'm not a little bit nervous because it's got aji chopped, all this is aji, it's chilito then it's probably going to be pretty spicy, but look, to what we came, to devour, to taste and to judge, so enjoy it! We apply the technique, ancestral that we already know and with this we graduated as Chileans. Uy, now i'm going to bite it with the aji and all Let's see if its not super spicy, in a fatal way. It smells delicious, look at this. Look this sausage. Let's taste. Wish me luck [Music]. Mmmm, hey what excellence, this one obviously tastes much greener, like much more vegetal above all for the green beans, the truth is very tasty. I'm not going to tell you that the aji is not spicy you can obviously feel the notes, but it's not an alarming spicynes, very scandalous. I thought by the looks of it, it was going to be really spicy, like habanero because it even looks like but no I would say that it i spicy to the level of a jalapeno chili you know? a little bit more, I mean it's not as alarming and actually I've been fascinated. The sausage that they use for this completo, is chicken sausage, for that there isn't as such a standard of what animal should be used for the completo, this chef used chicken sausage and the truth, I must say it, I have been fascinated! Difficult decision, this one is going getting 9.5 out of 10 completos and the site is highly recommended. Comment which one is the one you crave the most here down below, let's continue tasting. [Music] and well, of course we had to try a completo super streety. We came down here to this really nice area called the Vergara pier, has like many stalls, it has a little beach next to it, that is called the beach of the sun, that the people go swimming there, but let me tell you that water is freezing but it's really freezing, I just saluted right now to a to a little brother who went for a swim, no no my dude, cold as a ghost! But yes, the people enjoying the beach. Beautiful It's full of little food stalls, let's try one of these a very interesting variant of the completo which is called the completo ace. There, like that. A.C.E. How does it change? Well basically instead of having a sausage, instead of having a viena, whatever you want to call it, has meat! Usually beef meat, so you have the meat very tasty. Let's see if I can show you, look there it is, check it out, this is the meat very tasty and it is prepared in the same bread of the completo and with the same ingredients as the traditional completo, or well this was the Italian one. This is an Italian ace, that as I already told you because of the flag, green, white and red. Is avocado, mayonnaise and tomato for 3,300 Chilean pesos, a little over 4 dollars. Let's taste it, let's do the technique of the bread, because the truth it looks really bready this thing, it looks bready this vaina to go directly for the meat, enjoy it. Wow, that's yummy, how tasty! Whoever came up with the idea of changing the sausage for a beef, a genius! Ok it did it so well, obviously different. Although I will say that specific to this a little bit older, a little bit like harder but obviously we can't get very demanding, it's a street stall, it's not a restaurant like the ones we visited before this one we are going to give its deserved 8 completos of 10 completos Tasty, succulent, I will say that it is not the equivalent delight to those we tasted previously, but it is well, it's tasty and above all fattening. Enjoy it! To continue tasting [Music] Well there you have it, a little bit of What a tremendous delicacy. I hope you liked it, I hope this opened you up appetite I clarify that we really covered a can change according to the regions of the country which you know is a very large country but we tried some of its most popular recipes and variants. Would you like to correct me on something? Would like to add information? Please, I read you down here in the comments and well go to go get yourselves something, go for a completo, a hot dog, whatever you can reach. Thank you for joining me and see you as always in a few days with a new video. Goodbye