In this 2 hour English lesson, vocabulary that you need to get your This lesson will begin at the up to that C1 advance and even that C2 level. Welcome back to JForrest English. Of course, I'm Jennifer. Now let's get started. Let's start with phrasal verbs. They are so important to help you So first, in this lesson, you'll learn the most This is when you use all of something We commonly use this with We ran out of milk. This means you have no milk Now notice ran. That's the past simple of the verb run. The conjugations are run, ran, run. You could also say we've run out of it's a past action with a In a business context, you might So here notice in the present continuous, we're It means you're in the process So if the meeting ends at 11:00 and right now We need to end the meeting in 10 minutes. You can also use this with ideas. We're running out of ideas or patience. I'm running out of patience, which means I'm in the process of This means to raise a topic Child. For example, he brought up an which means he raised an interesting point. He shared an interesting point. He brought up an interesting point at the meeting. Here, brought is the past symbol of bring. Now remember, this also means to raise a child. When you raise a child, it nurture a child from the time that child That is, to raise a child. For example, she's bringing so this means she's raising three children on This means to care for someone or So generally we don't use this. If you're caring for someone like when you bring up a child, you're But if you're looking after a child, it sounds like you're doing it For example, my son's 16, so he looks after So my son who is 16, cares but he's not bringing them up because He's caring for them for a period so maybe 2 hours a day between after My oldest child, who's 16, cares for my We also use this with things to care for things. For example, can you look after If someone asks you to look after something vacation or while they're traveling, So that's a lot of responsibility for you. You better not kill my plants to take off. This means to remove something commonly from your body or to leave in the sense of When someone comes to your house, you might say So you want to keep your floors nice and clean. So you ask them to take off their shoes, to remove We commonly use this with flights. For example, my flight was supposed to So if my flight's delayed, it means it's now taking off later And when your flight takes off, it leaves the ground, it leaves the airport. So you can use this one every single talk about removing something I'm sure you know this one, but just to make sure, this means to activate a This is something that I ask Siri to do daily. And you might ask Siri or Alexa or Hey, Siri, turn on the lights. Or you might say, can you It's really. Hot in here. So think of all the different devices and even on you everywhere you go, and And if turn on means to activate, What's the phrasal verb Of course it's turn off. Turn off a device, deactivate a device again, something you can ask your Hey Siri, turn off the music. And this is also something that parents have to For example, make sure you turn Get up. This is 1 you can of course use every means you wake up in the morning. For example, I get up at 5:50 On Sundays I get up at 7:00 AM. So I sleep in on Sundays and oh, I enjoy. That What about you? What? Time. Do you get up? Share that in the comments. We also use get out to mean to rise So let's say you work in an office that you might just be relaxing and lying on the couch. But then your coworker says quick, get up, don't want your boss to see you just Be at your desk working right. So in this context, it doesn't mean It simply means you were in a So we talked about how takeoff is used So if you're hot, you can take off your sweater. But what if you're cold? What's the phrasal verb to Do you know it's to put on? To put on is to wear clothing or accessories so To put on also means to apply something For example, you could say to a friend it's Chili means a little cold. So maybe your friend is going out in you should put on a sweater to give up. Hopefully a phrasal verb that isn't this is used when you stop trying to do something. For example, don't give up just That's part of the learning process. I'm sure some days you feel which would mean stop learning However, there are some things you And give up is also used For example, you should give up smoking, which means you should stop So you should quit smoking. You should give up smoking permanently. Stop smoking with smoking. But you shouldn't give up learning mistake or just because it's taking Don't give up to look for when you simply try to find to locate someone or something. For example, I looked for you at This means I try to find someone, a I try to find someone at a conference. I looked for her or him, but I didn't find that person because there were too The conference was busy. Of course, we use this with everyday our purse, even something simple like a pen. Can you help me look for my keys? This is another way of saying, Can you help me locate my keys? Because I don't know. Where they are. Can you help me look for my keys? Now that you're more comfortable how about we do that exact same quiz again? Here are the questions. Hit pause, take as much time as you need, and Here are. The answers. Review them as long as you need and Are you enjoying this lesson? If you are, then I want to tell you This is my premium training program where the movies, YouTube and the news so you can Expand your vocabulary with natural Plus, you'll have me as your personal coach. You can look in the description or you can go to my website and Now let's continue with our lesson. Let's keep going. And you're going to learn 10 more And I'm going to quiz you to make this So first you're going to test your knowledge to And after I'll explain every Let's get started. Question one. She's not. She's just really good at basketball. Now, I'll only give you 3 seconds to take as much time as you need, She's not showing off. Question two. It's hard to meditate when my kids Question 3. We've been friends for 20 years. I'm not going to let this, I'm not Question 4. It's amazing how fast the company, after Question 5. I need to call the garage. My car's been all week. My car's been acting up. Question 6. His speech didn't. The urgency of the situation, Question 7. Just can close any deal we can. We can count on her. Question 8. I can't give you the day off tomorrow, but I can by letting you leave Question 9 they said the price is too high but Question 10. My boss always makes me stay late. I don't know why I I put up with it. How'd you do with the quiz? Share your score in the comments below. And don't worry if it was difficult, phrasal verb in detail #1 to come And this means to change your opinion Now notice the sentence structure. Because we have two prepositions around and We need a noun, an opinion, or an idea. For example, I came around to the new job So remember, this means you changed your opinion. So previously you didn't want the new job, but now you've come around to it, Now you want the new job because you We commonly use this without the preposition to and without specifying the something when For example, at first I didn't want to move So notice I didn't say I came around to something So I came around to the idea after I visited And this is when you clearly and effectively For example, make sure you get across So if you're having a meeting with particular message or idea, the boss wants you to communicate Your boss wants to make sure you get that across. Now we also use this when you're talking, you're talking, you're talking and the And after a while you stop and you And then you state your point. What I'm trying to get across is the This is when you deliberately display your skills Now, this is frequently used in the negative. Don't show off. Don't show off. But there's definitely a time and For example, when you're going to a You should show off your skills and abilities. You should talk about all your your degrees, the compliments you've received. You want to show off all of your So an interview is the perfect time to show off. Also, if you're going for your IELTS exam, you don't want to be modest with your You want to show off your abilities by using a phrasal verbs and idioms and expressions you want Now, this is exactly the same So you have three different phrasal verbs, And this is, of course, when you trust someone or something to For example, I can always So you can trust Selma to complete the specific And remember, you could replace rely on Selma or depend on I Now we frequently use this in a question response. For example, can I count on you? Can I count on you to close the deal? And then you can reply back and say absolutely, This is when something disturbs a relationship. And that relationship can be a social relationship, It can be any kind of relationship. For example, Jacob and Marcus were best So that's the image you could have. They were close, Jacob and Marcus, but then Sylvie disturbed their relationship. Now, it's very common for a girl or a guy to come between a relationship, It could be that Jacob and Marcus were very the new job came between them, their politics came between them, It could be anything came between them. Money is a good one as well that And remember you can use this Number six to put up with something preposition phrasal verb put up with, put up with. And we use this to say that you tolerate bad For example, I don't know how I don't know how you tolerate your boss. Now, of course, we can be more specific I don't know how you put up with your or your boss's distasteful jokes, for example. I don't know how you tolerate it. Now we commonly use this to say, I'm not I'm not going to put up with your constant To bounce back. This is when you recover or recuperate. Now, you can use this when you recover from like for example, a bad sales quarter But it can also be when you recover So you can use it in both those situations. For example, in a workplace I don't know how we'll bounce So I don't know how we'll recover. And then you could have a Does anyone have any ideas on how we can bounce back now in terms of recovering You could say it took me a while so it took me a while to This means to behave badly or strangely. This is very commonly used with their young children or even their older children. My son keeps acting up behaving badly. But we can also use this with devices and objects. For example, my computer keeps acting up. Behaving strangely, my computer keeps acting up. I hope it doesn't break #9 This is quite a long 1, so pay attention to this Now, we use this when you try For example, let's say it's your best friend's So this is the wrongdoing, not going Now, if you want to compensate say I'm so sorry I can't make your birthday party. I promise I'll make it up to you. I'll make it up to you by taking I'll make it up to you by I'll make it up to you by buying So those are the ways you're going to compensate. Now you might be wondering, what is We use it with it because what you're been explained so you don't have to say it again. Now you can use this in a business context. Let's say you went over budget on a client's how are we going to make it up to the client? How are we going to compensate for our wrongdoing? The wrongdoing is you went over budget. And then maybe someone would them by offering a discount or offering a So those are how you're going to to make it up to someone #10 to barge in. When you barge in, you enter a and you interrupt whatever's taking place. For example, I was in my office working and But later I hired. Him So by saying the kid barged in, it He wasn't expected. He just barged in unexpectedly and he But in this case, it was Now that you understand these let's do that exact same quiz Here are the questions for the quiz. You need to complete each sentence So go ahead and hit pause Here are the correct answers. Go ahead and hit pause and see how well you did. Now that you're getting comfortable And you'll learn 21 words that will I'm impressed. I'm impressed. Good for you. Number one, dazzling. Dazzling. That's a fun word to say. Repeat after me. Dazzling. This is an adjective that means brilliant I could say you look absolutely how I added absolutely to make it even stronger. Or I could say she started her So what do you think of my smile? Is it dazzling? If it is, then put dazzling. Put dazzling in the comments because putting Put dazzling in the comments #2 caveat. Repeat after me. Caveat. This is a noun and it's a These words will impress native There's one warning. You need to pronounce them correctly. So repeat after me caveat. Or you could say he agreed to be interviewed Don't worry about taking notes because I You can find the link in the Repeat after me. Alleviate. This is a verb that means to make something For example, taking a walk can alleviate stress. It can make it less severe or maybe for a job interview or a presentation, It can make it less severe. So make sure you practice #4 Repeat after me conundrum. Conundrum. This is a noun and it's a confusing He faced a conundrum. So notice that verb is face. You face a conundrum. He faced a conundrum about So maybe he has this job offer, but then it's my dream job, but if I accept it, I'll And then you can reply back and That's a difficult problem Also fun to say frivolous. Repeat after me. Frivolous. This is an adjective that means not We commonly use this with money. He spends all his money on frivolous items, Or you could say they argued something meaningless, no purpose, no value. Hopefully you're thinking which means it does have purpose So this lesson isn't frivolous. Would you agree? Put that's right. Put that's right, that's right in the comments. Number six, perplex. Repeat after me. Perplex. This is a verb that means to confuse and worry For example, the patient's The doctors found the symptoms difficult. Understand and then solve. So it caused some worry or confusion. Or you could say I was perplexed by Notice that passive structure. I was perplexed by these words, but Hopefully you agree with that #7 nostalgia. Repeat after me nostalgia. This is a noun and it's a feeling of you think about things that happened in the past. Some people feel nostalgia because nostalgia Some people feel nostalgia for their school days in the past, it brings some Can you relate to that? Or you could say hearing that song You can be filled with this noun. Nostalgia number 80. This is a good one. Ominous repeat after me. Ominous. This is an adjective, and it means giving the impression that something bad We commonly use this with the weather. You could look up and say So what's the bad thing that's going to happen? A severe storm. Or you could say he had an Something bad is going to happen. Maybe the client won't sign the contract, or Repeat after me. Acquiesce. Acquiesce. This is a verb, and it means to agree passively. So to agree, but you don't really want to. You don't want to initially, but For example, I wanted to go to Hawaii, I acquiesced. So my question for you, my smart Did I go to Hawaii or Iceland? Put your answer in the comments. Hawaii or Iceland, Put it in Repeat after me. Consensus. This is a noun and it means Remember, to have general agreement, That would be the minimum For example, we couldn't reach a consensus. So the verb you use is to reach a consensus. We couldn't reach a consensus Hawaii or Iceland, We couldn't reach a consensus. Or you could say there is a consensus So this means that the majority of people agree I'm always surprised when my students, even my advanced students, don't know Repeat after me. Itinerary. This is a noun, and it's a detailed For example, have you planned Because remember, I acquiesced, so I agreed with my husband who wanted to go to Iceland Did you understand that? Did you get that? So have you planned your So the itinerary would tell you what activities Or you could say we have a very busy Now don't confuse us with Repeat after me agenda. Most students know this, but don't an agenda is a list of items So you can ask what's the agenda for the Or In emails, it's very common to send or attach the agenda for today's conference call #13 This is an adjective and it means producing We use this specifically with money. You could say photography isn't lucrative. It doesn't produce a great deal of Or you could say there was a general consensus. Most people agree there was partnership would be lucrative, would So that's a great one to have in Do you know this one? Contingency. Repeat after me. Contingency. This is a noun, and it's. A future event or circumstance which is So it's possible but not guaranteed. Here's how this word is most commonly used. We need a contingency plan So this is a plan about a potential And the plan, the contingency plan, will tell Or you could say we must prepare for Repeat after me. Tangible. This is a noun and it means real, something For example, the project I can show you the benefits on a chart. You can touch the benefits such as money, or you have an experience such as doing It's tangible. Or you might say we need tangible You need evidence that people It must be tangible. This is commonly used with tangible assets such as machinery and buildings. You can touch them, you can look at them. They're real #16 incentive. Repeat after me. Incentive. This is a noun, and it's a thing that motivates So, for example, I need to give you and all I need to encourage you to subscribe So the fact that I upload videos every So make sure you subscribe like this video. And of course, subscribe if you haven't already. I have other incentives for you. Once you subscribe #17 Metrics Metrics. This is a noun, and it's For example, the size of your vocabulary the number of words you know, which So you can improve this metric, this As you know, on your IELTS or other language Those are the different metrics. Or if you want to improve your fluency, a good question to ask is what And that will tell you what areas to focus on. Number 18, redundant. Repeat after me. Redundant. Redundant. This is a noun and it means not For example, some tasks have AI, Chachi, BT, or you could say They're no longer used, although they were once So can you think of something in today's My example was a typewriter. Share your own example in the comments below. Just for fun #19 streamline. Streamline. Repeat after me. Streamline. This is a verb, and it means to make For example, online learning It's made it faster, easier, better. Would you agree with that? Or you might ask in a meeting, how How can we make our operations Repeat after me. Glaring. This is an adjective, and it's when something For example, we can't hire her. She made glaring spelling mistakes in her CV. So when you look at the CV, the They're glaring so that CV Or you could say there was a glaring The contradiction was extremely obvious. Now, do you know what a contradiction is this? Is word. 21 Contradiction Repeat after me Contradiction That is nonsense because some of the words That's a confusing definition, She's an honest politician. Now some people might reply back Isn't that a contradiction? Because when you hear the word honest, an image So some people might say that the combination of Here's an everyday example. You said you hate the heat, Isn't that a contradiction? Because Hawaii is very hot, but So that's a contradiction. Now let's keep challenging your vocabulary. You're going to add 15 advanced urge the sentence structure is Urge. Is a verb. And it means to strongly advise or For example, the lawyer So the lawyer strongly advised him. The lawyer tried to persuade him to take the deal. The lawyer urged him to take This is a preposition. There's an alternative spelling So you're adding a on the end. They mean exactly the same thing. Amid is more popular and So that's the one I urge you This means in the middle of or surrounded by. So let me give you an example sentence. Tesla launched its new car So we have the launch of the new car. Now remember amid means in the So you can almost imagine new car and then surrounded around Publicity is just media attention. So that's when we use admit Tesla launched their To roam. This is a great one. You can add this to your daily means to move about or travel without a But you do that on purpose. You can think of it as an activity. So when would you want to without a clear direction of where you're going? Well, probably when you're on vacation even of your own city. So you might find a new area You go on this street and then you see and then you see a store and then you go there. You don't have a clear direction of This means that you include a lot of Think of when you go to a conference, there There are different speakers, There are different people in the audience. There's different entertainment. So all of these are different things. Now the verb to encompass just means to include. So we could say the conference encompassed many members, presentations, topics, and you can go The conference encompassed many Look at the spelling. Now listen to my pronunciation. My, my, mired, mired. That's the pronunciation. We use this when someone or something like a It must be a difficult situation. For example, the new company was mired They were involved in that situation. And notice I use the word controversy, Oh, that's a fun word to say, isn't it? A little bit of a challenge for This is an adjective. And as an adjective, it means in a way For example, the entire project Remember, adjectives are always optional. So I could say the entire conference was planned. So now I want to give more And I want to say with a the entire conference was meticulously planned. So this is a positive adjective. If somebody used it on you, you would Oh, another tricky one for pronunciation. Exacerbate, exacerbate. This is when you make something We could say this attack will exacerbate the already tense relationship So remember it's a bad situation. That's why I used already tense relationship. That is not a positive relationship. So it's already bad. But then when you exacerbate, This attack will exacerbate their relationship and you call for something to happen, and this For example, the union called for his resignation. The union called for the union demanded. The union called for his resignation #9. Swift. Swift. This is an adjective. It's a fun adjective because For example, the police took Swift action. So they acted very quickly. Swift action #10 to. A Road A Rd. This is when you slowly You probably know this from a or when rocks erode, is when smaller and smaller and smaller Well, the meaning is the exact same, but Trust between two people in a business And I could say these budget cuts So we have the public's trust just It's getting smaller and The trust is gradually decreasing. And the reason why is because of the The budget cuts could erode the This is when you want to attract or you want to emphasize something specific. For example, the report highlighted So the report was written in a way that it It emphasized specific information and that specific information is we The report highlighted the need for This is when you make public So there's something wrong. And most the time people don't want So when you take that wrongdoing that someone you expose, you expose that person, or you expose For example, the report So there's government corruption. Of course, the government does not want So when that information is The report exposed government This is when something is more important. Than anything else fundamental. For example, it's one of the fundamental So there are many differences between fundamental is more important than anything else. Now notice how I didn't reveal I just use it's so you can decide what is the If you want, you can try to It's the fundamental difference What could it be #14 to deploy Resources could be people in the their contribution, or it could be money. It could be supplies, things like that. And you deploy resources. What does this mean? When you deploy resources, it but you use them in an efficient way. Or at least that's the plan. For example, the government is meeting to discuss they're going to use those resources in the They're meeting to discuss how to deploy. The funds? And finally #15 to pitch, And this simply means you share an idea or persuade someone to do something For example, we pitch them our strategy So we have a plan, an idea, but we did it in a way that we want you to say To pitch. We're doing an amazing job. Let's keep going and you'll learn 15 more Expression number 11's take on something. This is simply another way to ask So if you're in a meeting, it's very What's your take on that? And then that being whatever you're discussing, And to reply, you could And then you simply state We also sometimes will state our opinion or idea. For example, I think we should That's my take on it. That's my take on it #2 to be in a position to. This is an expression that simply means So you might say we're not in a At least that's my take on it. Or you might ask, is the company Is the company able to number I love this expression because it means you're For example, you might say, we haven't solved so the problem still exists, but You're making good progress, so if you keep doing what you're #4 to stem from this is an excellent and this means to be caused by or to come from. So you might read in an article a lot So the health problems are Said another way, you could say a but remember we're switching them because we're A given. This is something that is well known So I might share my fact or truth. If you want to be a confident English That's a given. It's just another way of saying that's a fact. At least that's my take on it. And said another way, I can say it's a given to be a confident speaker, you need to practice X is something, a noun, and that simply means For example, when you're planning a vacation, The exchange rate, the time zone difference, Number 7, this is a good one to This is another way of saying to deal So let's take a difficult situation. Social isolation during the Many people are grappling with, they're dealing Many people are grappling with isolation during This simply means you don't For example, I'm short on time this week, or I can't go on that vacation I don't have enough #9 to be up in the air. We use this expression to talk about or unresolved or uncertain up in the air. For example, my summer plans are up in the air. They're uncertain. I haven't planned them yet. Or I might say the future of It's uncertain #10 to bring someone up to speed. When you bring someone up to speed, you So let's say your colleague was on vacation hey, can you bring me up to speed? Can you share the latest information? Can you bring me up to speed on the Jones project? So you could talk about a specific Can you bring me up to speed A deal breaker. A deal breaker is. Something that causes. You to abandon a plan or a For example, I might be looking for a new but then I get to the salary and it's way too low. That's a deal breaker that The plan? To. Apply for that job. The salary is a deal breaker. We also use this a lot in relationships. You might say she lied to me. That's a deal breaker. So you're going to end the relationship, and that's a deal breaker #12A do over. A do over is another attempt to do something So let's say you go to a job You did really poorly. You could say I wish I could have a do over. I wish I could do the interview again. But unfortunately most of the But you might be in a situation where you're in a class and the professor gave you a So the professor might give The professor gives the students because everyone did really When something comes in handy, it's very useful. So this is a +1. So let's say you're considering adding a new And you might say, oh, this new It will come in handy. It will be. Useful. #14 to be a breeze. We describe something as a For example, learning English is a breeze, right? It's really easy. Maybe, maybe not. Depends on what your take on it is. Or I could say using Google Docs is a breeze. It's really easy. And then I could add using Google Word. So in that case I'm saying that Word. And finally #15 to be spot on. When someone is spot on, they're For example, I could say the weather The meteorologist said it was going to rain on Saturday at 2:00 and it He said it was going to be sunny and 25 The forecast was spot on, and now you have Are you ready for your quiz? Feel free to go back, review But if you're ready, let's complete your quiz. So here's how the quiz is going to work. You're going to see a sentence and you have to decide which which expression I'll only give you a few seconds, so hit So let's do this one together. Which option is it, AB or C? And the answer is a bring someone up to speed. Now notice how I also completed the sentence. You can do that as well for additional practice So those are the instructions. Now let's continue on with the next question. No. So was that quiz a breeze? Let us know your score in the comments below. Now that you've already expanded your We're going to read a news article English phrases Let me read the headline. Netherlands phone ban announced A ban? What does this mean? When you ban something, it means that No longer available or allowed. Here the word. Ban is not the verb of the sentence. It's being used as the subject, the phone ban. So it's a noun. The verb in the sentence is a noun in the past. Simple A noun. So you can use ban as a noun or as a verb. As a verb you could say the in schools, so this is the verb in the past. Simple. I could also say this article is So here ban is being used as a noun. Now you may notice also that I said the The Netherlands as a country is an Countries in general don't take articles, but there are certain exceptions, the United So keep that in mind, but make countries because they don't take articles. Let's continue Devices, including mobile phones, are set to be banned from classrooms Are set to be banned when something is set. To. And then you have the infinitive. It means that it is about to. For example, the party is set So our verb to be the party is set to start. Now maybe this is in the past, The party was set to start at So this was. The set time and then this is the actual time, so phones are receiving the ban, they're not the ones So we commonly use that for a verb ban as well. To be banned, you might say. My. Sugar. Was banned in my house to be banned. Sugar was banned in my house. Now, using an active sentence, you could say my Which could be a. Common thing that's banned are set to be banned from classrooms When something disrupts something, it prevents it from operating or So I'll put that here for you to prevent And that's what what the phones are doing in the To be banned, they've been banned. I've summarized all the notes from this lesson Simply look in the description Let's continue the initiative. So the initiative is the Netherlands The initiative is being introduced is to take effect at the start of next year. So to take effect, this is So you can say the initiative will In this case, start means I don't know if they mean calendar year or but to take effect simply means So another common expression to come into effect, and this is to Because we use this a lot with policies or rules, you could say that the So when it comes into effect and is So you'll see this a lot with. With. Government, our new policy, our new tax change can list a specific date or they might say It doesn't have to be a specific date it will officially start or become operational. There will be some exceptions. Now, if there is an exception, it means that certain people or So the policy that phones are banned Are. Exceptions, so it doesn't apply to them. So this is when a rule or policy doesn't apply. So they'll identify the exceptions there are, including for students with So those are two of the. Exceptions and then for classes focused on You likely use the conjunction except a lot. For example, I study English So you're listing the day that doesn't apply. Sunday doesn't apply to. This. Using the word exception you Everyday Sunday is my only exception exception. So here you're just. Using it in a different way, a shorter Let's continue the ban. So here they're using it as our noun. Noun. The ban is not legally enforceable, Make someone follow that legally, So become so means it may become legally Let's continue. Even though mobile phones are Let's take a look here at Intertwined. Intertwined means that something is closely We do have. More of a literal definition of this. You probably have a drawer in your house So if this white cord is this black cord, you can say they're intertwined. They're connected and difficult to separate. Right now they're not intertwined. But then if I mix them all. Together. They can become intertwined so. This is more of a literal. Meaning, and we do use it, especially happen to me, but we also have more of Our lives are intertwined, so maybe or you and your significant other. Or. You and a colleague even, and You have all of these areas that you your life from your best friend's So we do use this a lot with Our lives are intertwined. Even though mobile phones are almost intertwined, with our lives so closely connected, Could you imagine separating your Will that be difficult They do not belong in the classroom. What do you think? Do you agree with this statement? Share your opinion Do you agree that mobile What do you think? Yes, I agree. No, I don't agree and you can share the Students must be able to concentrate When you see there, you always have to in this case there represents a location over Students must be able to concentrate there in the classroom and be given every I see a lot of mistakes with this I'll be honest, but I still The sentence structure is So here you have your verb to be. You can conjugate your verb according to the subject and the time reference able And then you have your infinitive. So you could say we weren't We. Weren't because this is my verb to be which reference which is the past simple and We were not able to locate the file. Now I am able to come to the party. I'm able to so my subject, my verb able doesn't very basic sentence structure here, So take some time and practice this. Students must be able to concentrate. Now must is a modal verb. So notice after a modal verb, You have modal verb plus your base verb, students must be able to concentrate there We know from scientific research and then we already learned disrupt They disrupt this. This is their ability to Previous we looked at disrupt as a verb as well, but it was in the ING form From is a preposition after prepositions. You have your gerund verb with as our present simple conjugated with They, they disrupt this, they disrupt this. Various studies have found time is linked to improved OK, so limiting children's screen time, Is linked to. You can think of this is So we have one thing limiting children's improved cognition and concentration. If something is linked to something, it means You can think of a chain link in a fence. They're connected. So that's to be linked. To so their. Verb. Here our expression is to be Now, we generally use this expression when you want to show that one thing So there's a cause and effect relationship. So again, our one thing Reduced. Heart attacks and I want to show Exercising causes the effect Exercising has been linked to reduced heart So my verb is in the present perfect, and Let's continue. Other tech, including tablets and The government said it would be the exact rules with teachers, parents and pupils. This sounds a little weird to me directly whatever you're agreeing to So I think it's just there is missing to agree to the exact rules because you agree I agreed stay late. This sounds weird. It does not sound correct. I agreed stay late. I agreed to stay late. Now it sounds great. This means you accepted your boss said can you I agreed to stay late. So that's why we need this preposition here Now notice the government said it would be up to to be up to and then we The individual schools, well, it represents the So technically it is a someone when something is. Up. To someone it means they have It's their decision to make. So a friend could say, do you want And then you can say it's You're saying you decide. It's your responsibility. I'm giving you responsibility It's up to you. You can decide if we're having pizza or pasta. It's up to you. So the government said it would be up the exact rules with teachers, parents and pupils. So the schools have to decide on the rules, including whether they wanted Schools. OK, so schools have the flexibility to decide? The announcement follows a similar If something follows something, Just like if this is Sally and this is Larry, He's coming next. So something follows something, it comes next. I'll write that for you. So this means that Finland announced because the announcement by the Netherlands So first Finland announced and then Other countries, including England and When you propose something, So they haven't decided, they're considering it. So when you propose something, To suggest something, something They have also proposed banning So propose you may be more familiar When someone proposes to someone, they say will But. It's the other person who gets to So we use that Will you marry me? This is will you marry me? This is the words used when someone You can say other things, but this When someone proposes and what are they proposing? They're proposing merit. You don't need to say that. You don't need to say, oh wow, Well, generally the guy proposes, but why not? A girl can propose to, but I'll Oh wow, Tom proposed to Sally Did you hear that, Tom? Proposed to. Sally, so you propose marriage, but you don't And how did Tom do that? He said, Sally, I love you, will you marry me? And then hopefully he gave her a ring and And then Sally will say yes or And we'll consider that proposal, that proposal. And that is the end of our lesson. So what I'll do is I'll go to the top And this time you can focus on my pronunciation. Netherlands phone ban announced to including mobile phones are said stop them from disrupting learning, The initiative is being introduced is to take effect at the start of next year. There will be some exceptions, including for and for classes focused on digital skills. The ban is not legally enforceable Even though mobile phones are they do not belong in the classroom, Students must be able to concentrate there We know from scientific research Various studies have found limiting children's screen time is linked to improve Other tech, including tablets and smartwatches, The government said it would be up to individual parents and pupils, including whether they The announcement follows a similar Other countries, including England and France, have also proposed banning mobile Now let's keep going and news article and you'll learn 40 English phrases. Our headline The young As you can see, her outfit really stands out. Imagine there are all these other workers and black pants and she is wearing this She would stand out. The phrasal verb stand out. This means to be noticeable, So you have a group of different objects and That object stands out. And it could stand out because of its size, it's bigger than the others or smaller So to stand out, to be very compared to other things or even people. So she stands out because of her Let's continue on. Traditional thinking has generally been Here's another phrasal verb to fit in. So the phrasal verb is to fit in, in this case the workplace, then we So I'll highlight all of this. So the phrasal verb to fit in is when you have When you're a new employee, you Or if you're new to a neighborhood or a new school, that's a great example, You might not feel like And unfortunately, a lot of my students don't feel So of course to not fit in isn't a good feeling. You want to feel like you belong and are accepted. You want to feel like you fit in. So to fit into the workplace, a feeling So they're saying traditionally you would wear So you fit in, you have this sense of belonging. But this person here is doing something different. She's dressing to stand which could have the impact Let's find out. But in the pandemic era, these When something goes by the wayside, it means it's And in this case, they're talking about a rule. So by saying the rule has gone by the way wayside, So here's the definition here. Now, of course, in our modern era of phones that are connected in your house, No one really uses them anymore, right? So in this case, you can use it. When you use something, you stop using it or Monica Saleh. That's the woman here who dresses to stand out. Monica Saleh doesn't wear your average Instead, the 31 year old software marketing of rare vintage fashion at a large tech OK, vintage, vintage clothing is clothing so from the 50s or 60s or 70s. So not from this modern time is from And we can see an example of This. Pattern. This color combination was very popular And this shirt was made in the 60s or 70s. And this represents vintage. And they also had this adjective here rare. So a rare, of course, means So it's not easy to find clothing that was You have to go to very special stores. So not common, not common, not easy to find. Now let's take a look at her job title. She's a software marketing manager. Now, a lot of times I hear their job title because they don't use an article. You have to use an article. I'm a software manager. I'm an accountant, so N if you have a vowel Don't forget that article. It sounds very beginner English and you might not You would stand out because it's obvious that such a basic mistake like forgetting to So don't make that mistake. And if you do want to stand out in the Then I want you to download this free how to speak English frequently and confidently. This is absolutely free. It's available on my website, so you can just look in the description for the link And you can also find the link to download all the Let's continue on her outfits. So an outfit is a complete set of. Of. Clothing that you wear, so it includes So it's everything that you're So not just your shirt. You can only see my shirt now, but And even if I had shoes or a purse, all of So her outfit, the total of So in her case, the outfit would You can't really see it, but it looks like And let's say she was wearing a belt as Her outfits are a far cry from the If something is a far cry it's very different from very So it's saying that her colleagues just wear, you know, you're plain white, That's your casual business attire, your outfit. But she wears something very different. So her outfits, what she wears, the total of what It's a far cry from now. One thing that my students find far cry from using English in the real world. So they get comfortable studying But then they get out there, they go to or they go to a meeting or a networking real world and using your English, is a far cry from communicating And that's why a lot of students feel like they They stand out because their accent is too strong So this is how you can use this Her outfits are a far cry from the average plain And she says her bold style has become When something is a talking point It's something you talk about. That's all that means. So her outfits are a talking point. It's something when she sees her Where? Did you get that shirt? Tell me more about it. What generation is it from? Who designed it? That's how it's a talking point. So here's a quote so this because it means that this woman, what's her name again? Monica, this woman Monica So she said having that When you breakdown walls, it So it's a metaphorical wall. It's saying here I am and here my colleague So we don't communicate easily. But if we eliminate that wall, then now I can hi, I can easily Having that opportunity to breakdown walls with people across different teams This is how she breaks down the walls. So how she initiates conversation with her colleagues about her outfits The company I work for is pretty my notoriety has been extended Being around people who might not and catching their eye has So an icebreaker is a way to So if you're at a party or a networking lot of new people and you've never met You want a way to initiate So at a party, an icebreaker Oh, so how do you know Jane? If it's Jane's party and you could go up That's how you initiate conversation. How do you know Jane? How long have you known Jane? And you can talk about the host So an icebreaker is a way to initiate, which is a way of same start to initiate So after you initiate that conversation, All right, let's move on. Sally is not the only person pushing back OK? When you push back against You say I don't agree with that. I don't want to do that. So you resist something to resist something. So let's say your office has a new policy that But before you wore jeans and AT shirt. So a lot of people could be they could push back against because You push back against something, which I don't agree with that. I don't think that's a good idea. That's how you push back against something. So she's pushing back against your wearing this very vintage rare clothing that So she's not the only person pushing conventions with many showing off Attire is another word for outfit. So you could say office attire or office outfits. Notice here if you have outfit, you need it with an S there because But a tire does not take a possess of plural form. Sorry. So you just keep it without the but you would have to say their Remember, you have to conjugate your So here their attire, but because It is inappropriate. Their outfits because it's plural, OK, but it means the exact same thing, And remember, an outfit is the totality So many are showing off. When you show off, it means that you So to show off their attire on social media, You would take a picture of it and you headline and a hashtag in an attempt to So that's how you would show Some workers, especially younger ones, black trouser combos with lux loungewear sets. All right, lots. To review here, so first let's. Talk about our adjectives. We have mundane. This is very ordinary, not interesting. Could be a little bit boring, right? Because if it's very ordinary, So that really probably represents boring. So a white shirt, black Everybody wears that. So it's a little bit boring. It doesn't stand out, but you probably OK, so that's mundane. Now, Combos is short for combination. Combination, so you can shorten it to combo. You see this a lot in fast food restaurants. McDonald's, you could have a That's a combo. It's a combination of three A combo. OK, And then lux is short form for luxury. But in this case, we're using it as an adjective. So what do we need? Luxurious Notice the pronunciation. Luxurious. Luxurious. So this as you can see, we The short form. It's not the most common to be honest. I would personally say luxurious or luxury. I wouldn't shorten it to lux OK now our phrasal verb to swap out. Now you swap out one thing for another thing, which means you just replace So first I had my mundane white T-shirt, but I swapped it out for this OK, so you replace one thing with another thing. Are swapping out. Replace, I'll just say replace A with B. So white T-shirt is A and then these So you swap it out and that's So perhaps if you want to stand out at work, That's the moral of the story here. So now what I'll do is I'll read and this time you can focus on my pronunciation, Traditional thinking has generally been but in the pandemic era, these rules are Monica Saleh doesn't wear your average Instead, the 31 year old software marketing of rare vintage fashion at the large tech Her outfits are a far cry from the average plain and she says her bold style has become Having that opportunity to break different teams by talking about my The company I work for is pretty my notoriety has been extended Being around people who might not and catching their eye has Sally is not the only person pushing back with many showing off their unconventional Some workers, especially younger ones, are swapping out mundane white shirt and Amazing job. Do you want me to make another master class? If you do, put master class master And of course, make sure you like this lesson, share it with your friends and subscribe so And you can get this free speaking to speak English fluently and confidently. You can click here to download it or And I have another class I know you'll love. Make sure you watch it right now.