In this video, I explain why food and more importantly how to prevent it from Hi I'm Andrew with Prudent Reviews where we If you're new to this channel, subscribe for kitchen knives, appliances, and more. If you're matter what you try, food sticks to the surface, of cookware brands and food sticking is a I explain the science behind why food sticks techniques you can use to prevent it from work by showing you how I cook eggs in a stainless So why does food stick to stainless steel Number one is too much heat. Stainless steel the cooking surface under a microscope, you'll see you heat the pan and expand when the pan cools or cold food on a piping hot stainless steel pan causes the pores to quickly expand and contract, when you cook on high heat and the burnt bits and cooking at low temperatures can also cause food to the food, a reaction between the oil and the lifts the food above the oil so it's not in direct When you place food on the pan you want to hear the oil and the moisture in the food is happening. that sizzle, the steam effect won't occur and the prevents food from becoming too greasy. If you the heat the food will absorb the oil. But when a barrier keeping the food and the oil separate. are prone to sticking because the proteins create Eggs are especially problematic because their fall apart at the slightest force of friction. is excellent for cooking proteins. In fact, it's My point is, when you cook proteins with stainless the proper cooking methods, which I'll explain in can scratch or damage the stainless steel pan's that food can cling onto. On the other hand, not behind small food particles and oils that can more friction to the pan's surface causing food to Now that you know what causes food to stick to prevent it from happening? Preheating the pan is pan needs to be the right temperature. To check After preheating but before oiling, put a small right temperature, the water will bead into a ball to as the Leidenfrost Effect. If the pan is too If you add the oil and the food at this point, it is too hot, the water will break apart into small turn the heat down and try again in a minute or alternative fat is necessary to prevent sticking. frictionless surface and a barrier between the people make is that they add oil to a cold pan. pores in the cooking surface, breaks down, and if you're trying to prevent sticking. Plus the heat for longer. After you preheat the pan, wait then add the fat and coat the pan thoroughly. A the entire pan in a thin layer. For example, would translate to about two or three tablespoons before cooking, or at least close to it. Cold meat because it lowers the temperature of the oil and bringing your food to room temperature before since the entire piece of food will instead of being coldest in the middle. Make the food can lower the temperature of the oil. and the food that creates the steam barrier food sticking. Drying also promotes a crispier burgers, and fish. Overcrowding a pan causes the food. Similar to my last point, when this happens from the pan's surface. By not crowding the pan, is a chemical reaction between amino acids and the surface of the food comes in contact with hot When the pan is overcrowded, this can't happen. creates too much moisture. So instead of a nice pan's surface, the meat sticks and boils in its To prevent food from sticking to stainless needs to brown and form a crust for optimal flavor from the pan's surface. If you flip a steak or steel. Grab a pair of tongs and gently lift the little more time. Lastly, it's important to clean advertise that their stainless steel cookware preferred. If you want to ensure maximum cooking wash it with warm water, dish soap, and a soft and stack it carefully, protecting the cookware's Alright, let's see these techniques in action. stainless steel pans, but I'm going to show you for a couple minutes, now I'm gonna drop a tiny water is bouncing around the pan exactly how I Okay, now I'm gonna put a I'm going to let that melt, not too much, just And now I'm going to add the egg. We're Like i mentioned before, we're not and I'll let that cook, let that fry. Alright, now let's see how we're doing. Yeah, as you can see, absolutely no sticking; The most important things to remember to control the heat; the pan needs to be hot oil at the right time. Have patience. Don't right and don't move the food too soon. Let the Don't overcrowd the pan, and clean the cookware the process. If this video was helpful, check the easiest and fastest way to clean stainless to subscribe to the channel. Thanks for