Hello everyone! We are going on a 7 night/9 day trip to Paris! This time We will take Etihad Airways and head to Paris from Narita Airport via Abu Dhabi. I feel like it's going to be a great trip :) From Narita Airport, it's a 13-hour flight to Abu Dhabi. We arrive in Abu Dhabi and connect to a flight to Paris. We arrived in Paris after a 7 hour flight from Abu Dhabi! Current time in Paris is 7:30 AM. We take a taxi and head to the hotel we have booked. I started to see the streets of Paris, and little by little I started to feel like I was in Paris :) This is the hotel I will be staying at this time. Wow... lovely! This 4-star hotel in the 9th arrondissement has a unique interior design. Let's leave our luggage at the hotel and head out into town:) We were blessed with good weather and it was a great start to our trip! Cross the Pont Marie, the second oldest bridge in Paris, spanning the Seine River. We came to &quot;Bertillon&quot;, the most popular gelato shop in Paris. Let's eat a delicious parfait here :) The inside of the store has a chic atmosphere based on purple. I could hear the bells of Notre Dame Cathedral from outside the store. A parfait was brought to me I've been wanting to eat this for a long time! Mariage Freres black tea was served in a Japanese Nambu ironware. I'm so happy to see Japanese products being used in Paris! This one has cherry sorbet and vanilla ice cream. Peach Melba contains vanilla and peach sorbet. Hmm, that's great! ! The light cream on top is irresistibly delicious :) Inside is vanilla ice cream with a rich and elegant taste. Just one bite made me feel happy :) It was a great way to start my trip to Paris! I met a cute friend on the street Let's enjoy the atmosphere of Paris! I got on the subway and was still moving to my next destination. Every street is lined with wonderful shops and cafes. When I looked up, I saw a beautiful sky... I just came to a popular tea specialty store in Paris. The beautiful interior looked like a museum and was mesmerizing. When you pull the handle, there are tea leaves inside. This shop purchases tea leaves directly from carefully selected producers in about 47 countries around the world. Every time I take it out, I'm excited to discover beautiful tea leaves :) The store staff introduced me to some popular teas. This is said to be a particularly popular green tea with a berry flavor. This tea is loaded with roasted almonds, apples, and cinnamon. Next time we will have the tea we choose put in a can. We admire the owner's beautiful craftsmanship:) The founder, Alice Blow, is a very kind and lovely person. How wonderful...! It was a very nice shop. We are heading to the next location. I went to the Musee d'Orsay. I have purchased tickets in advance. I was impressed by the beautiful and liberating space, with light pouring down from the dome-shaped ceiling. This building, which was originally a train station, was reused and opened as the Musee d'Orsay in 1986. We came to the back of the large clock, which is the symbol of the museum. This seems to be a popular spot where you can enjoy the beautiful view of Paris through the gap between the clocks. We had a great view of the Seine, the Louvre, and Montmartre. Come and enjoy this impressionist masterpiece with me. At that time, emphasis was placed on portraits of aristocrats. However, with the rise of the art movement, there seems to have been an increase in works depicting nature and everyday scenes. It was very profound to look at the paintings while considering their historical background, and I had a great time. I could see the beautiful Eiffel Tower from the museum window. When I went outside, the sun was starting to set little by little. I came to the stationery shop on Opera Street. This store has many unique and wonderful items. A cute Eiffel Tower notepad:) There were so many wonderful items that made my heart flutter:) We returned to &quot;Rue Rivoli&quot; in front of the Tuileries Gardens. After walking a lot, we decided to have tea at the ANGELINA main store. The interior of the store is also beautiful. This cafe was very popular and there was a long queue outside, but we were told we could be seated faster upstairs, so we headed there. We ordered &quot;Angelina Tea Time&quot; which is served from 3pm. Let's eat:) I was looking forward to the chocolate show:) It was richer than I expected and very delicious! The rich taste of marron paste spreads throughout your mouth:) The small, beautifully presented dishes are also delicious:) The cakes served included hazelnut, chocolate, and citron cakes. It still feels like a dream to be in Paris and having tea with you. :) I decided to do some shopping at the department store and then go back to the hotel. I went to the food hall at Galeries Lafayette. Everything looked delicious, but I bought the brioche and baguette. I had it last year too, and it was really delicious :) Let's buy some butter to put on the baguette! There are many delicious and affordable butters in Paris, but I like Bordier's butter. I'm also going to try Bordier yogurt, which I've been curious about for a while! No matter how many times I see the variety of yogurt and cheese in Paris, I am amazed:) This is the tarama cream that Madame told me about when I first came to Paris. It looks like Japanese mentaiko cream and is very delicious :) There were lots of delicious-looking sweets lined up on this side. All the packaging is stylish and very attractive :) These are Bordier cookies. There was also roasted almonds coated in caramel, a famous sweet from a famous shop. I found the popular &quot;Poilane&quot; cookies. This is so delicious that you won't be able to stop eating it :) I bought a lot of things I like, so let's go back to the hotel. It was a very fulfilling day. good morning! Today is my second day in Paris. We head to the bakery for breakfast. We took the metro and got off at Chateau Landon station. The fresh morning breeze feels so good :) I arrived at the bakery I wanted to go to. This bakery seems to be very popular with a constant stream of customers. When you open the door and enter the store, you will be greeted with the aroma of delicious bread! All of the breads at this shop are made using traditional methods. This shop has also been selected as the ``best bakery in Paris'' by Gourmet Guide. The light blue bag is very nice :) We decided to eat on the terrace. First, let's try the popular danish! Very crispy! And this pistachio cream is the best! Brioche with walnuts has a simple sweetness that is irresistibly delicious...! Hmm, the pain au chocolat is too delicious :) What a happy morning...! I came to Place de la Republique. The Marianne statue that stands in the center of the square is said to be a symbol of French freedom and revolution. We came to a select shop in the Marais. The latest Paris trends seem to be here. On the first floor, clothes from various selected brands were lined up. There were also tote bags that are popular as souvenirs from Paris. I also like this pouch because it is soft and easy to use. If you look closely, the other colors are also cute :) I thought about it for a while, but I decided on the khaki color that first caught my eye. The calm colors are very nice :) On the second floor, there were tableware and interior goods. Everything was so nice that I couldn't help but fall in love with it... There were many dishes with unique designs that I had never seen before. This is also nice :) Just being in the stylishly decorated store makes you feel good :) There were also vintage plates here. It was a very nice shop. Now let's head to the next store :) We came to a vintage shop. This store had a huge selection of vintage clothes from famous brands that were in good condition. There are lots of clothes all the way to the back of the store! I also really like this styling. The herringbone pattern setup is also nice. There were also wonderful bags and accessories in the showcase. I have a reservation for lunch at this restaurant today. It's a nice atmosphere and makes you feel good :) Mmmmm, it's delicious :) Wow...! looks delicious! Even if you don't eat it, you can definitely tell it's delicious... it's super delicious! The chewy pasta and rich peppery cheese sauce are absolutely delicious! This olive oil is unbelievably delicious! A dish wrapped in tomato-flavored pasta. All of them are impressively delicious! We were very satisfied with the great food and nice space :) This restaurant is highly recommended! Next, we visited a select shop from New York that is popular with fashionistas around the world. Casual and simple clothes were available here. The reason I came to this store was to see this cap :) I really liked the material because it was wool. I got some macarons :) By chance, I found a vintage shop with an atmosphere I liked. I love the color of this jacket. At this store, you can see a variety of clothes, from casual clothes to unique designs. Awesome...! I really like it:) That's nice too! I keep finding things I like one after another... I really like the colors and silhouettes! I'm not sure whether to buy the coat or not . However, I decided to think about it a little more. It was a very nice shop! We visited a very popular vintage shop in Paris, frequented by many fashionistas. There seem to be a lot of rare products from top brands here. The racks where clothes are hung by color are full of unique and wonderful one-of-a-kind items...! This MOSCHINO jacket has a very nice lining. I really like the fact that the collar and pockets are made of leather. When you come here, all the products are so attractive that it's hard to move on It's also wonderful! I fell in love with this leather jacket at first sight...! The green color is very nice. The store staff also praised it, so I decided to purchase it! I found other things I liked. Wow...that's really nice... I'm really happy when I find clothes that I like at a vintage shop :) I like that belt too! Unfortunately, the size didn't fit me so I gave up on itThis was a really nice shop after all! Next, we arrived at MEERT, a long-established Gaufres confectionery shop founded in 1761. We decided to try one piece of the popular Gaufre. I bought the most popular vanilla flavor and the seasonal marron flavor. Inside the soft waffle was a rich cream filled with vanilla beans. I liked the marron flavor, so I bought a box.Next , I stopped at a flower shop with a chic atmosphere. There were lots of beautiful flowers lined up in the store :) We had a cute friend over there We were choosing flowers to decorate our room. Before I knew it, my dog friend came too :) How cute...! We were instantly healed by their cuteness:) The owner was also very kind and nice:) Once we returned to the hotel, we went to a vintage shop near the hotel. I'm excited about this great selection and unique atmosphere :) It's a vintage shop atmosphere... the more I search, the more I find good things in the back and it's so much fun :) I entered the store just before it closed, so my time there was short. However, it was an exciting and wonderful shop. Today we will have dinner at a restaurant near the hotel. This seems to be a popular brasserie that has been loved by locals for a long time. Actually, we had never eaten escargot before. However, when we tried it, we were both surprised at how delicious it was! The flavor of the garlic butter that fills your mouth is irresistibly delicious:) It's the best dinner! Drinking piping hot soup on the slightly chilly terrace is also the best! Today was another good day :) Today, I'm going to the &quot;Vanves Flea Market&quot; held in the 14th arrondissement. If you don't go to the flea market early, the good stuff might sell out... :) Take the metro and get off at Porte de Vanves station. I'm really looking forward to finding something good! It was crowded with people from early morning. This time we will mainly be looking for plates! Wow...! So many wonderful plates...! I learned that you can read the brand information and year by looking at the back stamp on the back of antique plates. When purchasing, I look not only at the condition of the plate, but also at how old it is. Having said that, I'm not an expert, so I mostly choose based on my intuition I really like this brown plate and it's in good condition, so I decided to purchase it. There are so many wonderful things in the box...! The cameo brooch is also wonderful. I'm looking around for something good:) This treasure-hunting fun is what makes flea markets so appealing! Now, let's take a look around the various shops! I found a nice perfume bottle. It's also beautiful...! A blue plate with a chic atmosphere caught my eye. The condition is also very good. I mustered up my courage and tried to negotiate the price...! The owner lowered the price! She was a very kind and stylish person:) There were also cute boxes, cans, and miscellaneous goods. There are lots of rare and unique items! Also, the paintings displayed throughout the flea market are wonderful. I'm considering whether this picture will suit my room :) I found a plate that I really like! When I looked closely at the center of the plate, I noticed that the picture was different. The owner told me that this plate was made over 100 years ago and is very valuable. He seems to really like Japan and kindly taught me about plates:) I received a cute spoon! Thank you:) It has a fun atmosphere that can only be found at a flea market:) This flea market is located in Paris. It is said to be the smallest of the three Flea Markets, but there are nearly 300 shops lined up. This soup bowl has no lid and is not in good condition, but it has a nice antique feel. I decided to purchase it because it was reasonably priced! I chose the plate as a present for a friend who loves cooking. We have to take it back to Japan with care:) Lastly, we are looking for a bag to decorate our hotel room with flowers. Let's go with this:) The owner of this shop is the same person I met last year! I received a present to celebrate the reopening I hope to see you again next year :) I found some great things and had a lot of fun! I'm going to buy lunch at a shop near the hotel:) There are a lot of delicious-looking foods in this shopping street! When I saw this bakery every morning, there was always a line, so I was curious and decided to go inside. I decided. All the breads are big and look very delicious...! I bought two types of babka. I can feel the weight of the bread in the bag :) I came to the supermarket. I buy salads and fruits. When I find a sweet that interests me, I start by eating it myself, then buying it as a souvenir for a friend. The supermarket bag had an Olympic pattern. Next, we visited a patisserie that we always visit when we come to Paris. My favorite is salted caramel chocolate, but it's so popular that it was sold out today. There are rows of delicious-looking cakes:) I'm going to buy some cakes and take them home:) There was a cute cookie tin. I found the mug I've always wanted:) The combination of blue and gold is lovely:) I decided to buy it as a fan of Sebastian Godard Now, let's have lunch in my room! I want to use the plate I bought at the flea market right away:) I'll also decorate the vase with the flowers I bought yesterday Yeah, it looks good:) Thanks to the nice plate, it looks even more delicious:) Let's start with this babka . How does it taste? Let's try the cake we were looking forward to! All the cakes were delicious as expected! It's nice to eat at a cafe or restaurant, but it's also nice to eat whatever you want at the hotel :) Now that you've had a good night's rest in your room, it's time to head out into town again. We're close to our destination, but it's raining heavily... We finally arrived. There should be a popular vintage shop in this courtyard... but we found it! The atmosphere is very nice:) The vintage items decorated all the way to the ceiling make my heart flutter:) The shop owner has carefully selected all the wonderful items, and they are all beautiful. And the more you look, the more wonderful things you'll find :) Unique objects and beautiful paintings... All the items are decorated as if they were one room. You could spend hours looking at each one slowly. A wonderful space to enjoy. As you go further inside, a beautiful space opens up. Look at the wonderful plates lined up here as well. There was such a wonderful torso! It's a dream shop for vintage lovers. We finally decided to look at the plates we liked. We couldn't decide which ones... Suddenly we started to feel drawn to the big soup bowls :) The staff at the store kindly introduced me to various things. My mother seemed to particularly like the soup bowl with a flower pattern :) After thinking about it, I decided to buy a soup bowl as a memento of this trip. They told us theyI liked our choice :) We met a cute friend with kind eyes A shop run by nice people is wonderful after all. Thank you for the lovely time! Time flies when you have so much fun.... Today, we will finally go to see the Arc de Triomphe. Wow...beautiful...! The Arc de Triomphe at night is even more impressive and beautiful than usual. We don't have any plans today, which is unusual:) First, we will have breakfast at the hotel. There was a machine that could make boiled eggs :) The hotel's breakfast venue has a nice cafe-like atmosphere. My mom puts ham and cheese in the baguette Each ingredient is delicious, which is why this simple combination is the best! Even in Japan, I want to try Parisian baguettes... While I was in Paris, my mother tasted and compared apple compotes every day. My mother also recommended compote to me It seems to have a perfect balance between the sourness and sweetness of the apples. Really good!! This gentle taste is good! The breakfast at the hotel is great because you can try delicious local food. Today I wore a jacket that I bought at a vintage shop. It's nice even in Paris when it's raining I came to the Chocolatory, a long-established store that has been in Paris for over 250 years. There were many delicious-looking sweets wrapped in stylish packages. Since it was Easter season at this time, there were also cute animal sweets lined up (Photo taken in March 2024) There are so many interesting things! We decided to buy the camel candy that we also bought last year. The glossy candy contains rich caramel. When I tried it for the first time last year, I was blown away by how delicious it was! Isn't the green can nice? It's next place we visited was the Passage &quot;Jouffroy&quot;. This passage is said to have been built over 150 years ago. The atmospheric glass roof and tiled floors evoke a bygone era. The 140-meter long street is lined with specialty stores selling books, posters, cameras, stationery, and more. Further inside, there was a busy cafe. Wow...beautiful... I have to eat this! So we headed inside:) We were shown to great seats! It sparkled like a jewel... It was really hard to choose just two cakes I ordered the hazelnut and caramel cake. Daman Freres black tea comes with a cute sugar stick. Now, let's eat it ...! ? It's so delicious that I'm speechless...! The complex flavor of rich caramel and nuts... I'm moved every time I take a bite of this cake...! If I could, I would like to try all the cakes here... this might be the most delicious cake I've ever eaten! It's really delicious:) I'm feeling very happy as I head to the next place:) I came to Samaritaine, a long-established department store that was founded in 1870. Samaritaine closed once in 1990 due to poor business management and reopened in 2021. On the first floor, colorful and stylish interior goods were lined up. I found a stall brand store from France that I had been checking out for some time. The brand is known for its unique stoles with designs inspired by landscapes and animals. So lovely! I tried on the stole that I liked the most. This stole is thin and feels good on the skin, so it seems easy to use. I bought it:) Next we will go to the fashion floor! We came here to see Parisian brand clothes. We're going to have lunch at the Peninsula Hotel the day after tomorrow, so I'm looking for clothes to wear. This is my mother's favorite style :) This coat is also nice. Yeah! It suits you so well :) She decided to pair this top with the jacket She already have. The staff seemed to like Japan and were kind to me :) I'm glad I found some nice clothes. When I looked up, I saw a wonderful view that I couldn't believe was a department store. The architecture of the Pont Neuf in Samaritaine is characterized by Art Nouveau style with iron and glass decorations. Beautiful murals and beautiful light shining through the ceiling...! It feels like being in a museum :) We finished shopping and are walking to the Louvre. The cityscape is beautiful and it's really fun to take a walk. This view surrounding the Louvre Pyramid is astounding no matter how many times you see it. It feels like I'm looking at a painting. We stopped at a cafe in the courtyard of the Louvre Museum. What a great seat we had! This is a special seat :) I could see the beautiful Eiffel Tower in the distance. We ordered a latte and cheesecake. The inside of the cake was melty and tasted elegant :) This place is more expensive than other cafes, but you can enjoy a leisurely meal while looking at this beautiful view.It 's a great place to make memories of Paris: ) Before I knew it, the clouds had passed and the sun was shining from the sky. Wow... how beautiful... Cheers to our trip to Paris! It feels like entering the world of a movie :) The Louvre Museum at night is also wonderful. I stopped at a supermarket to buy some souvenirs. La Mer Poulard is famous for its butter biscuits, but I also like their chocolate chip ones. The purple bag is so nice :) This is another candy I recommend. It looks similar to sweets sold in Japan, but the chocolate and cookies are a little different, and it tastes exactly like Paris :) There was chocolate that tickled my mother's heart because she loves lions Amazing yogurt Look at the numbers! We also have a lot of cheese! How long do I need to stay in Paris to try them all? There was an eco bag with an Eiffel Tower pattern. According to the store clerk, eco bags with this pattern are so popular that some stores may not have them in stock. This is an organic cotton eco bag. It's large and soft, so it seems easy to use. I decided to buy some as souvenirs. Walk 20 minutes from Opera Street to return to your hotel. I stopped at a Starbucks I found on the way home. When I entered the store, I found myself in a luxurious palace-like space that I couldn't imagine from the simple exterior. Let's take a photo with this wonderful background :) It's really beautiful anyway. I ordered a seasonal drink. I told my mom to try it because it was delicious, but she kept laughing and refusingWe were tired after walking around all day today, but we had fun laughing about the little things. Today is my fifth day in Paris. Let's have a good day today too! Take the metro to the cafe you want to go to. I tried wrapping up the stole I bought yesterday :) First, we will have breakfast at this cafe. &quot;Cafe de flore&quot; is known as the birthplace of cafe culture in Paris. It is said that many artists and celebrities such as Picasso used to frequent this place. Spend an elegant morning at this historic cafe. I ordered the classic French breakfast dish ``Euf a la Coq.'' Eat the baguette with a runny egg. Mmm, delicious :) The outside of the baguette is crispy and the inside is chewy and delicious. Once you put Echire butter on it, you'll want to eat it forever... The restaurant is crowded with many Parisians and tourists. It's also fun to watch the garcon move around between the tables. Everywhere you look, it feels like a scene from a movie. After spending an elegant morning, we headed to a popular interior design shop. I saw a nice green building. When I entered the store, I was greeted by a lovely light green space. The store is lined with tableware and objects painted in watercolors by illustrator and designer Marin. He also drew the cute illustrations on the glasses. I'm excited about the playful design :) There were also some lovely silk scarves here. As you go deeper into the store, you will find a wonderful space lined with cute tableware...! These illustrations seem to express respect and love for Paris. The walls were decorated with beautifully detailed showcases. I'm in love with this cute space...:) I decided to buy this cup as a souvenir of my trip to Paris. The store staff wrapped the items very carefully. When I looked at the beautiful wrapping paper, I could feel the care that the store put into it:) I came to the Luxembourg Gardens, which is one of the largest in Paris. This vast and beautiful garden is said to be a place of relaxation for Parisians. The beautiful scenery soothes me and makes me feel refreshed :) I returned to Boulevard Saint-Germain. We will have lunch at this brasserie. LIPP, a long-established brasserie founded in 1880, is famous for its traditional Alsatian cuisine and continues to be a gathering place for many celebrities. The waiters, wearing black vests, bow ties, and aprons, will serve you efficiently:) Let's start with the escargot:) When I was having trouble figuring out how to use tongs, a kind waiter came to my rescue. Mmm, very delicious! I also ordered a dish of mate shellfish topped with lots of parsley and green onions. The crunchy texture of the mate shellfish is irresistibly delicious:) Beef steak packed with flavor. The super creamy mashed potatoes are also great! This restaurant is amazing, with delicious food and kind customer service:) Here's Garcon's performance that will entertain us even more...! This chocolate sauce is so delicious that you'll be speechless...! Finally, the cute coffee Let's toast with a cup :) The garcon was so kind and wonderful, just like an actor. I had a great time and feel happy :) I happened to see the Paris City Hall, which was designed for the Olympic Games. The next store I'm heading to is one I've wanted to go to for a long time! I came to &quot;Melodies Graphiques&quot;, a store specializing in calligraphy and stationery. I open the door with excitement:) Wow...a dream-like world...! Everything I see is wonderful, and I feel like I'm in a dream... A long-established stationery store that has been around since 1896. As a store, it has continued to be loved by many people around the world for a long time. Here you can find wonderful items with a touch of Paris. Beautiful calligraphy by the owner and professional colorographer Ms.Hitomi is displayed throughout the store. I was fascinated by the beautiful letters for a while. It seems that Hitomi took the photo for this postcard. Of course, postcards also have beautiful calligraphy. Please continue shopping at this wonderful store :) I found something I like! A paper tassel with a candle stand drawn on it. This is also nice... Apparently there is an 18th century print affixed to the front of this box. The book cover with the store's exterior printed on it is also cute. There are so many wonderful items that you can't find in other stores that make my heart sing :) There was also a set of sealing stamps. I was able to actually see the sealing stamp that I was interested in. I would be happy to receive such a nice letter. Next, I went to the store next door. It had a wide selection of calligraphy pens and inks, handmade notebooks, and decorative paper. And the classical atmosphere inside the store is very nice :) When I happened to look to the side, I saw Hitomi's husband making notebooks using the traditional method. Wonderful...! The shelves were lined with beautiful handmade notebooks. Wow...it's amazing that this is handmade... Next, let's take a look at calligraphy tools. When I told her that I wanted to learn calligraphy, Hitomi carefully explained to me the necessary tools. This is a calligraphy pen. This shop has 115 colors of ink, which is said to be the best selection in Paris :) On this day, I was able to see Hitomi's beautiful calligraphy over and over again and had a wonderful time :) There were many more wonderful items that I couldn't introduce in my video! When you come to Paris, be sure to visit this store. Thank you for the fun time :) I have some great memories in Paris. It felt like I was in a wonderful dream :) We decided to have a quick meal at a nearby restaurant. I ordered the Japanese style omelet recommended by the staff. It's been a long time since I tasted Japanese taste... I'm so happy with the nostalgic taste :) This cheese is so delicious! It's nice to be able to share delicious food while traveling :) Today was another great day. We are now on Opera Avenue. The fresh morning breeze feels great :) I still had plenty of time in my schedule, so I came to the cafe. It's cute :) Apparently the fox drawn on the cup is called &quot;Barista Fox&quot; The cafe latte is creamy and very delicious! The taste of matcha was very rich, and it was more delicious than I expected, so I devoured it in no time :) I had an elegant morning coffee time and headed to the next place. We have arrived at the flagship store of &quot;POLENE&quot;, which is now very popular all over the world. I excitedly enter the store carrying my favorite polene bag :) The modern atmosphere is very nice...! Today, the POLENE PR staff I met in Tokyo will be showing me around the Paris store. . The store has bags with impressive smooth curves. It is carefully crafted by craftsmen in Ubrique, Spain using a single piece of high-quality leather. A nice colored bag caught my eye. The bag also comes with a short shoulder strap that can be adjusted in length. The silhouette of the bag is wonderful! This also has a beautiful shape... This is said to be the first bag designed by Polaine. There is a lot of stuff in the bag. Apparently this is the most popular among Parisienne :) When you actually hold it in your hands, you can clearly see the quality of the bag. It seems that a new color silver has been added to the bag that I was interested in. The strap is removable, so you can use it as a wallet or a clutch bag. All colors are cute:) POLENE has a wide variety of bag colors, so you'll want a different color:) This wonderful space is decorated with jewelry designed with inspiration from nature. Ta. It's delicate and very beautiful. I now understand why POLENE is loved by people all over the world:) All the bags are so beautiful that I couldn't decide... I finally decided...! Here is the bag we chose...! The other choice was the signature model &quot;Numero Un&quot;. As I looked around the store, I noticed that the staff were working with small bags on their bodies :) That's nice! I found a wonderful bag. We are taking a taxi and heading to a certain place. We arrived at the Peninsula Hotel. Here, you will have a meal with the POLENE staff. I'm honored to have such a wonderful opportunity...! Wow... wonderful...! The Eiffel Tower looks even more beautiful in the rain. We will have a lunch course at &quot;Loiseau Blanc&quot; on the 6th floor of the hotel. The stirrer had the Peninsula Hotel logo on it. I can't help but fall in love with the beautiful dishes :) The lovely potage butter is as smooth as ice cream...! Afterwards , we had a great time talking about various things while enjoying delicious food. We had a wonderful time thanks to the hospitality of everyone at POLENE. Next, we decided to go to the popular Chocolatory that we heard about from the POLENE staff. We arrived at the first store. I am fascinated by artistically beautiful chocolate... :) I received a praline for tasting. It was so impressively delicious... I was hooked after just one bite:) There was a dream-like box All of them looked delicious, but I decided on the chocolate box recommended by the staff. :) We took the subway and moved to the next chocolaterie. Before we knew it, the rain had stopped :) We arrived at a popular chocolaterie in the 7th arrondissement of Paris. I received a praline as a sample:) The rich nutty flavor and crispy texture are irresistibly delicious...! This Chocolatory is based on the concept of healthy and delicious chocolate, and uses birch sap instead of sugar. It seems that he is using it. I will try a chocolate called &quot;Coffredo Stick&quot;. The crispy texture and the praline inside are delicious! I decided to give this as a gift to a friend who loves chocolate. The gift wrapping was also innovative and wonderful :) The staff was also very kind and the store was wonderful! The atmosphere outside had already changed to night. Today was another good day :) Today is the last day we can sightsee. I'll be returning on an early morning flight tomorrow. On the last day, I decided to go out with my mother with a new bag:) It's sad to think that today is the last day of this road that we used to walk every morning.... Let's enjoy our time in Paris until the end:) First, I came to &quot;Passage Jouffroy&quot;. A display with a unique atmosphere caught my eye and made me stop :) Let's go in! The more I looked, the more interesting things became...! There were so many beautiful decorations that I had never seen before. They're all so beautiful I can't decide...! That's nice too! My mother was having trouble deciding which one to buyIt was a very nice shop! Cross the pedestrian crossing and go to the opposite passage. There are a variety of international restaurants here. I have made a reservation at this restaurant today. The inside of the store is very nice, with antique plates and paintings. Wow...! looks delicious! First, let's try the Vitello Tonnato :) My mother danced with the deliciousness Beautifully colored veal served with a mild tuna sauce. Even though it is a simple dish, how can it be so delicious... Wow! More delicious-looking dishes...! This is ricotta cheese and artichoke ravioli. When you bite into it, the flavor overflows and the chewy texture is irresistible! Crispy Milanese with special mayonnaise. This is amazing! It's so delicious that you can't help but smile Let's finish off with a delicious dessert :) Thank you for the delicious food and wonderful time! I came to the Marais area. I went to the select shop again to choose a present for a friend. I decided to purchase this pouch additionally. I hope you like it... :) Next we went to our favorite bakery. The staff gave me a cute spoon-shaped sable. Sables that are slowly baked in a stone oven are so delicious that you won't be able to stop eating them once you try them! Buy some subs. My mom loves this apple pie :) Last year we ate this apple pie for the first time and we were very impressed :) We are in a very good mood and are heading to the next place :) At the end of the trip, we will see the Eiffel Tower I made it. Let's take in this beautiful view :) The Eiffel Tower is really beautiful. I'm really happy to be able to see this scenery again. It was a wonderful trip with many encounters and learnings. I'm grateful to everyone I have met on this journey. Thank you! Thank you for watching. I hope to see you again :) Also, I hope you have a good day tomorrow too.