To discuss the case for private property we George Roche is the president of Hillsdale institute unabashedly devoted to the cultivation in favor of the private sector. Dr. Roche received his B.A. from Denver's history from the University of Colorado. He joined the staff of the Foundation for before joining Hillsdale College. Our second guest is the senior libertarian von Hayek. Professor Hayek, born in Vienna, became known successful book, The Road to Serfdom, which war - warned against the implications to set by Great Britain and other countries. But he had already performed the prodigies prize for him two years ago, and he left the at the University of Chicago where he wrote He returned to the University of Freiburg studies and essays for the technical journals At a special meeting of the Mont Pelerin Society issued celebrating that event published by It is called Essays on Hayek in which, as Such is the notoriety of Mr. Hayek's opposition limericks about him on college campuses. Last week at Berkeley I heard this one. There was a young man from Nyack To do this while tanning In spite of the writings of Hayek. I should like to begin by asking Professor Congress in order to diminish unemployment? Well, we must be clear about what you call There is a current view which is not completely That's what makes it so dangerous. That all you have to do is to increase expenditures to secure full employment. But that's only a short-term relief which what it amounts to is to stimulate certain Particularly in this period where all they It draws more and more people into producing Now they can be kept employed there by continuing at an accelerating rate. So the dreadful position is that the politicians going to reduce unemployment by spending more." But in the long run they make these misdirections remedy at the price of greater unemployment Now we have had the longest period of inflation and we must expect that a very large proportion where they cannot be permanently employed inflation. The consequence is that we must go through people are induced to shift their occupation. Now in a normal market system that works fairly where the chances of occupation are. But we have on top of inflation a system where politically determined by trade unions, so tells people where good employments are no longer But I think as a result of civic policy in longer period. Now note the mistake is not our present government It's wrong in a sense - it's their little more than inflation. The mistake is in the past and we have to Well, what sort of shifts do you anticipate market responding to - producing capital goods into producing consumers' predict. You know the whole point of the market price number of particular facts and amounts which They can find out a stable situation only which the prices constitute to draw people that would work if we had a tolerably free Well, is it a part of your position that unemployment neutralize the force of the market place? I can't speak about this country; that is, it really is. I mean the country which I know much better and there you have such a ridiculous situation the wife of people on strike. Even though the people go on strike to push risk. The government has to look after their families. Now to a minor extent I think the same thing speak very definitely. I mean the American trade union is of course Well, let me put the question to you generally. Is it a part of your position that the adjustments take place alongside unemployment compensation, becomes too lucrative? The latter. You know I have no objection against a flat earn enough in the market - but the same earn more in the market. That need not interfere with the price mechanism But once, of course, you make it more attractive even young people who cannot expect to earn temptation to remain unemployed and to earn I've no idea, but I suspect that a comparatively isn't generally unemployment. It's just a preference of people to draw Is that your experience, Mr. Roche? We have almost a case study of this in the this country, Professor Hayek, we have states - that are major industrial states with And in the case of Michigan we find that unemployment in general are on a rather higher level than they This has the effect of not only causing people out, but has also had the effect of driving into other places where these other very negative So we have a situation where a major industrial in industrial growth - is now forty-eighth industrial growth as directly the result of Well, how would you account for the almost in order to reduce unemployment it is necessary projects? Since you speak of this as being almost manifestly superstitions should survive? Well, it's almost entirely the work of one is much more concerned about influencing current the theories, and he was operating then in Now in Great Britain a successful attempt a good deal of inflation - to bring prices Prices came down but wages did not, so you where wages were internationally too high world market. The problem in Great Britain was to make Britain required a reduction of real wages. Notice these real wages had been artificially So because the pound was part of its former or inflated wages, could buy much more. Wages had not come down. Now his first argument was wages must come Then he found that was politically impossible, Instead of getting money wages down, we must should correspond to a lower level of real I would almost say, he led himself to believe of any use. It involves a very complex economic argument must inflate, in short. Now notice several things. Keynes was a genius, but a genius will spend of the busiest men I ever knew. But he knew very little economics except particularly concerned to influence policy at a particular In fact the last time I talked to him was I knew him very well. When I asked him wasn't he getting alarmed this theory, were doing after the war when was, "Oh, don't mind. My theory was frightfully important in the Then we needed an expansion to correct a situation. Do trust me. If this theory becomes dangerous, I'm going Six months later he was dead. And as usual what happened is that the very to a completely different situation a theory a particular situation. The only thing I blamed Keynes for is to making He called it the general theory. In fact he knew precisely that it was not persuade government in the 1930s to do particular It was an ad hoc apparatus- He was one of the most fascinating men I knew, only persuaded the younger generation of economists. And if I had been a much younger man and a off my feet as were most of the people. Like Nixon. No, no. What did Nixon mean when he said he was a Well, I hope that he meant only that these that they had to be dealt with as a part of I hope that he did not mean that he literally more wealth. The thing that I would like to address myself the Keynesian policies were so successful essentially because of the ultimate political to bear. The same thing's been true to a lesser extent Things like minimum wage and the rest that of the labor market are all essentially labor The practical politics that once caused the toward organized labor might not be working For example, if you go into a bar in Hamtramck at General Motors is saying these days, he's which appear to give him more money but which Meanwhile he's being pushed up into a higher and on that balance he has considerably less In other words the ability of organized labor and put on the kind of pressure necessary You're perfectly right, but I'd like to You see, another political element was that, and Keynes taught them if you outspend your to the people in general. The politicians didn't want to hear anything spending was a beneficial thing and that's Well, let me ask you this. Are you prepared to say that Keynes did not employment, or are prepared to say that nothing Concretely, is it or is it not correct that mobile wage rates to help to adjust business Well, it depends very largely on policy and I think Keynes' claim to have provided general There's no question to me about this. In spite of his extreme intelligence he just Largely you respect the information before He wasn't mainly an economist. He was a great figure who was concerned about studies on economics and thought he was competent didn't construct one theory - the most theory after theory to justify the same policy one, but he happened to be wrong. It was one of these that you challenged, as Well, I did challenge his first theory. I spent a lot of time to criticizing his treatise theory in two long journal articles, but when "Oh, never mind. I no longer believe that." So when he came out with his general theory, against criticizing, but that book was he I'll regret it for the rest of my life that Well, Mr. Roche, how do you account for the by the book when the labor union pressures Great Britain? Why did the whole of the Harvard Economics - go up in flames with enthusiasm over this? What is the explanation? Is it psychological or intellectual? One of the really interesting situations of intellectual community to various problems, It's something that I hope somewhere in Hayek has a chance to discuss this because there's - classical liberalism - and 20th century I think we see just the methodology that you're There are some things that are so deeply believed "Don't confuse me with the facts. My mind is made up." So whatever the political pressures or absence in our time who is determined to see only shaken from it. We may be seeing that now incidentally. The same changes that are recurring in organized community as well, but wisdom takes time. Well, Mr. Hayek, you wrote a very famous essay you attempted, I think quite successfully, intellectuals. What is that thesis of yours, and do you still Oh, certainly, yes. Well, it's a very interesting story intellectually. Among the dominant ideas which have governed thinking since the 18th century is the idea we can make everything to our pleasure, that we can Now, that is basically mistaken. Social institutions have never been designed They have grown up by a process of selection Result - people frequently know why it was That applies to the market. The market is - I was going to say most ingenious, - instrument which enables us to utilize knowledge of people. It's an adaptation to thousands of circumstances where the prices formed on the market tell do in the social interests. And I know that you understand this. You have to know economics. The naive person who imagines all the distribution - It seems that if this is the responsibility very unjustly. The fact is it's not being done unjustly because come to agree to play a sort of game in which it and which - because we are utilizing more - the outcome for a particular individual Now an outcome which is unpredictable and as little as the outcome of a game of chance And the people who imagine, oh, it should this, expect the government to do this in That is literally impossible because it would about particular facts and particular circumstances by a central authority. Why couldn't the role of the justicemaker someone who has more than he needs for the than he needs? Because if he knows that part of his income inducement for him to do that particular thing. If I know that if I do a thing which would fetch a taken from me and I can do something much paying any income tax, I'm going to do that to society. Well, but in point of fact a great many people to be very productive. Well, I doubt whether they are as productive All right. But let's say they are less productive than that the demands of justice are perhaps approached of the proceeds (through the market mechanism)? There are no possible rules of a just distribution deliberately the result of people bringing I mean justice is an attribute of individual I can be just or unjust towards my fellow - to expect from an impersonal process which - is not only a meaningless conception, it's See, everybody talks about social justice, what they mean by social justice, also what I'm telling you because I've been trying for are your principles of social justice?&quot; Well, the fact that people may disagree as in and of itself argue against the right of - got anything like a consensus - an operative consensus because of the codification There is a consensus of entrusting a particular Yah. But then you ask how it's being done. It's being done not by agreeing with any little groups. The people who get more are not determined who by withholding their particular group There's nothing like agreement of a just The distribution which government effects it makes to the extortions of particular little you don't give us an extra benefit. Well, what if you were to remark a correspondence of redistributionist money, would that just It would be a coincidence. Suppose 50 percent of Mr. Roche's college of it was supplied by government. Would you say that there was a natural correspondence the distillery of free minds and as screened Our possibility of being charitable is limited people and particular needs. The benefactors of your college will do so of people they know. But, see, the great the problem is that we society which deals with an infinitely much Nobody can form an idea - what a steel worker South America - in the Southern states - deserves We have no instinctive feeling about this. When we believe that we have this sense of which we have developed from the life in the years before it develops to an open society. Of course in a little hunting band of 50 people appropriate share to each member. But this native instinct which we had to overcome coming up again when the great majority of understand the market, and so we are reverting which we have overcome when we emerged from Well, are you saying that a state the size of charitable redistribution? Whether it would be intelligent, it could I don't know what's the population of It's probably already too big for the purpose, I think it's about 50 thousand. - of 10 or 20 thousand people could probably There you still have visible, conceivable But the whole advance of society is that we bigger than any single mind can conceive, of order and created conditions in productivity rules and then letting them play what I call and partly a game of chance and that the outcome - which tell people what they ought to do Prices, after all, tell people what they ought to the social product. Well, Mr. Roche, let me ask you this. Is it your notion that a society ought not define justice or because it has no legitimate Both, as a matter of fact, but before I answer anyone's mind, Bill, that half of our money because, as you are already perfectly aware, or the state government. You disdain it. In any event as to the question of justice justice becomes almost a contradiction of roots that produce the modern egalitarian from the idea that it is possible to establish They deny the operation of a moral framework that all ideas and all values are to be considered people who have said that and are busy then Western civilization are the same people who as though somehow the assignment of numbers justice, and, in fact, it will not. So I don't think that you can define social You can define social injustice. You can produce a socially unjust situation. But to do so, what you've really done is to make those choices that have a genuine Well, why is it inconsistent for a logical to accept as just that which the majority does because this is an attempt - a conscious people who are as instructed as any society Well, I don't think that this definition When people begin to talk about justice or wrong, it's always a fair question to ask who is so determined to provide this egalitarian other people should conduct their affairs and for him simply to say that the majority of enlightenment denied the rest of us is That's not proof. Well, let me ask you a concrete example and to it. Suppose you have a state in which extreme In one area of the state 50 dollars a year In the other end of the state a thousand dollars the child. Is the concept of justice invocable in the to diminish that antipodes. We must pay more for the education of the it means diminishing the grant to the child Is this as thus far described, a rough attempt No, because justice after all still, as we idea. Morality is the difference between right and transactions between and among individuals. When this is elevated to a social plain, it content as justice. But is that terminologically subjective if hungry person? Why is that different from ten individuals Oh, privately to the individual? No, no. Even if they use the instrumentality of the Because at that point I become the succor theirs. It's fine for you to decide to be charitable. It is not fine for you to be charitable with In fact there's no charity connected with Well, this really depends on the rules of Let's raise the question what is the society? I'm acquainted with your essay that says I mean is the fact that people of Oklahoma to have a common system of law and of rules can demand that the people of New York, out It's a question which once you ask it will which creates such a right. It's really the fact where there is the is the power, it is accepted as legitimate the rich - Now does it mean that if we have to 80 percent of their incomes in order to I mean that same principle applied once you is an international power - then we have the international government decides to tax hand it over to the Chinese, and feed the Whatever we may think about desirable future existing rules of morals do not justify this. And I would maintain that in fact when today taxed in favor of the poorer parts this is majority of the American people, but surely needs the rules of Oklahoma and pays for the It's the costs of the people of the welfare Nothing else. Well, but the motivations of the people who of people who are propelled by demagogic pressure, You're not denying disinterested generosity It's an entirely different matter as disinterested But to claim that there is a consensus of to bring about a certain redistribution of The American people have never asked the principles All they ask - all they are told - is Party who promises you such and such will the people in Oklahoma. And since you know that you will get from from it - you would from it and you take into Party gets into power, it has to pay special That's what it comes to. Judges by the results, this idea of disinterested expect from the public sector. Pick your legislature and you'll see a series variety of ways contending essentially for that it's impossible to be generous with morally possible, which it is not. Well, it seems to me that Aristotle tackled a democratic base, and he simply talked about about a class of people who exercised power. But he also said that a democracy in a state That's right. And his numbers were probably high at that. No, no, no. I know, I'm aware of that, but Aristotle those in power and assuming that the obligations people other than themselves and defined - or the wrong thing to do. How do the lines go? Power into will, will into appetite, and appetite will and power must make per force a universal You know an equally great philosopher, Immanuel and therefore we cannot involve welfare of rules by which we can do it." When we do this, aren't we making a wrong Let me give you a working example. I was raised in the mountains of Colorado eight-grades-in-one-room rural schoolhouse. The public school was publicly financed, but ranch families living there who simply felt to have an education, so the teacher brought the clearest kind of extension of the responsibility of his own children. And eventually of course what happened in occurred. Consolidation - it was called there - came to the bussing of children many miles away because of all the benefits that were going in the form of chemistry laboratories and in this little country school. The actuality of that was of course while in intervening years and the local communities the quality of the education the youngsters actually became more inferior, the reason the basic responsibility of the individual that could be said about virtually every aspect we have as individuals which are presumably in fact never are and I think never can be. Well, are you saying that the Bronx High School school in New York? Of course not, no. There are obvious special cases. It's possible to subsidize the Vienna Opera the exception almost proves the rule. Well, may I comment on this. Although I am by birth an Austrian and I love to tax 7 million people or to give half a I'm very doubtful indeed. Our examiner today is Mr. Jeff Greenfield, Mr. Greenfield is a graduate of the University student paper. He's a graduate of the law school at Yale He was a speech writer for Senator Robert belatedly retiring to become a freelance writer. Also an alumnus of the Bronx High School of I know. My first question is why are you all wearing Is this some cabal, some collectivist plot I won't talk. Okay. Then on to more trivial concerns. First let's start with this concept of social If a state within a federal republic such the right to vote because of the color of that as an example of injustice. Yes, right. Permitting federal intervention, even though Now, it seems to me that there is an easy injustice and to define social injustice requires Hence, one aspect of social justice we could basis on which not to vote. So my question to you, and I suppose also about social justice confined to the sphere ability to define it? Well, I'm highly skeptical when government simply is not properly qualified to judge how it should be performing. Your example, of course, refers to the political Obviously for the state to determine the conditions where the state must make the rules. Now, I want to elaborate on that and ask Dr. economics here. I'm afraid I have a lot to say on this subject And the point we must start from is that the treat all people equally in spite of the fact You can't deduce from this the rule that them unequally in order to make them equal It's a demand that the state should treat to place them in the same position. The rule of equal treatment applies only to But, to make, making people equal, a goal to treat people very unequally indeed. Let me, though, pursue an area where we get In the field of politics, once again, people said to have a tremendous advantage over people given the demands. Now, if the state taxes us or indeed as they us the opportunity to check off on our income dollars or 2 dollars - diverted to public who meet equivalent standards for qualifying, of equality, does this offend your sense of How are they being brought up to a level of They are being - Let me limit it. They are being brought up to a level of equality of getting elected. It diminishes the inequality between rich speeches, attend rallies, the panoply of politics. This bother - Does this offend your sense Yes. You see what you are discussing is a case the same rules, and I'm all in favor of But if the different people observe the same What you are suggesting - the whole theory government ought to treat the people very material position. That has nothing to do with your original forces all people to apply. This idea has only been imperfectly achieved that government must force all people to obey Well, it seems to me that in the absence of left with the Anatole France observation about to sleep under bridges and beg in the park. Yes, but is that wrong? I think the fact that it is right in some I think in the field of politics if access greater amount of welfare, something's indeed Yes, but I mean the government prohibits a which only young and strong people can do If the government prevents me from climbing love to do it - it doesn't affect me because rule as a general rule. Equally? If we're looking for social justice, let's Let's look in social places and see some there, in which case we get a very different I'd like to ask Mr. Buckley, in fact, just At least I think it's that kind of question. I'm sure he'll let me know if it's not. The abortion controversy - If we assume - that is to say that the state may not - then does it offend your sense of justice we are now going to say that public money medical procedure which has been legitimated person or a middle-class person might terminate Not in the least because it is in no way to by the Supreme Court which are enjoyed uniquely The Supreme Court 15 years ago denied to the This was a meaningless gesture as far as millions have the resources to use a passport to go But nevertheless, the finding of the Supreme The notion that the discovery of a right by of the means is, I think, a mistake that is After what you just said, I would think there a newspaper or to eat caviar and drink wine to the right not to be compelled to carry Is this the precept? Is this what you have just said? Well, it is, everything is subject to caricature. Who is the artist in this case? Well, Mr. Bertrand de Jouvenel in his book it is the height of arrogance - and I agree what deprivations mean to individual people. For an individual who loses his Mona Lisa, to say that he is less anguished than the night. And I think it's very important for you In fact, if you want to take a few minutes No, no. I must say I think that statement ought to Let it just sit there for a moment for what Let me ask Dr. Hayek another question which was asking you in his more lucid discussion. "The Road to Serfdom", the book that most about the dangers or the folly of massive sense, at least that's what I recall. What Mr. Buckley, I think, was asking you, simple redistributive policy on the part of as the warnings you raised about a state that our lives? In other words, a simple statement - make We will take X percent of it to heal the wounds Is this dangerous of policy? The answer is very definitely yes. Any redistributive policy requires a discriminating You cannot so long as you treat all the people them to act only to observe the same rule Once you decide that government is entitled it to others, this is automatically discrimination rule. They are purely arbitrary. Why isn't the general rule all those in - pay X, all those in Class B pay Y, all Why is it not a general rule as opposed to Because X doesn't equal Y. A very difficult question, how to define a general rule. I mean after a long discussion in jurisprudence a general rule is that you cannot predict from it. Any rule where you know before that who will is in that sense not a general rule. But, now, does this fact that it is not a Inadvisable because once you authorize government Now, I think we, - I want to make sure I The word arbitrary all of a sudden came in Why is it arbitrary - I'm sorry? Not acting according to a general rule is That's the only way in which you can define I don't see why if one understands exactly Why is it arbitrary? I distinguish between rich and poor when I income. Well, you distinguish between the people whom you want to have less. But why is it arbitrary? I've given you what I think at least is among them. Well, the distinction is between - I can equally to all and rule which distinguishes Arbitrary does not necessarily mean thoughtless. I understand that part, but it seems to me normative judgment in an effort to set forth to treat different people differently. Let me come up with perhaps a suitable example. If you went back to an earlier time in American - was that the blindfolded Goddess of Justice equally to all who came before her. If you take various governmental programs is using the word - take affirmative action Now we have a law which says come before the encouraged to peek. And she says first tell me your color, tell are going to treat you. Well, now there are Lithuanian minorities The only majority in this country that I know There are more women than men. But every other grouping - ethnic or otherwise out to be a series of minority relationships, of those to say these are the people whom are the people whom we penalize. There's only been one minority in American Yes, and it was a legal process which made Yeah. Enslavement came as a direct result of the It was arbitrary. Yes. But would you accept that arbitrary - to say good night. Thank you very much and thank you, Mr. Roche, thank you, ladies from the Sacred Heart at