So, I'm from Guatemala. This is a public service announcement, that is where Guatemala is. (Laughter) Also, that is not That is called Guantanamo. (Laughter) Not the same place. So Guatemala's right below Mexico. And for the Americans in the audience, and let this sink in, for the Americans in the audience, you can think of it as Mexico's Mexico. (Laughter) Just like the US doesn't want Mexico doesn't want It's a smaller country. It's a poor country. And well, what can I tell you, it has much better Mexican food. (Laughter) Guatemala is a very poor country. And a lot of people talk about education as something that brings equality But I always saw it as the opposite, Because what happens in practice is that people who have a lot of money and therefore continue Whereas people who don't have barely learn how to read and write and therefore never make a lot of money. And this is especially true Now, I was fortunate that I received even though I didn't grow up rich. And it's because I'm an only child. And my mother, who was a single mother, spent all of her resources And this allowed me to come and eventually get a PhD Now because of all of this about 10 years ago, I decided I wanted to do something that would give equal access Oh, by the way, this is what I want giving equal access At the time, I was a professor at Carnegie Mellon University, and I decided to work on this The way my brain works, all of education is just So I decided, let's start And then I started thinking, Should we teach math? I mean, we both love math. Me and my cofounder, we both love math. And, you know, we didn't Then we started thinking, well, maybe But eventually, and this is maybe eventually, we decided was teaching foreign languages. And let me tell you why. There's a number of reasons. One of them is that there's There's about two billion people both in school and outside of schools. Most of these people, by the way, About 80 percent of them In this weird map right here, all the countries in green are countries in which people And the reason for that is because English can truly In most countries in the world, knowledge of English can significantly So this is another reason why we decided And it's because you can directly if you learn another language, And see, this is pretty different For example, take math. In the case of math, just knowledge of math does not because usually you have to learn math to then become a civil engineer, Whereas with languages, now you can be a waiter at a hotel So we decided, well, let's get started Now, we also convinced ourselves that the only way was by using a mobile phone, See, building schools all over the world On the other hand, most of the world's population and the trend is that that fraction So we decided at the time that we would make a way to learn that was accessible to everyone. And then we called it Duolingo. Thank you. (Applause) Now in order to truly be accessible Duolingo uses a freemium model What that means is that you can learn without ever having to pay. But if you don't pay, you may have to see an ad Now, if you don't like ads, you can also pay to subscribe And it turns out that the vast majority comes from people who pay Now, who are these people who pay Well, they're usually well-off people Who are the people They usually come from poorer countries So what I like about this model is that it is a small form because we're basically to pay for the education of everyone. So I like that. (Applause) So with smartphones, and we can even get the rich people which is great. However, if you're trying to deliver you run into a humongous problem. And it is that smartphones come equipped with some of the most addictive drugs TikTok, Instagram, mobile games. See, delivering education is like hoping that people but right next to it, you put (Laughter) If you really want to deliver not only do you have but also you have to make it And with Duolingo, And at the highest level, is by making the broccoli I'll say it another way. What we've done is that we've used that apps like Instagram, to keep people engaged, but in this case, we use them but with education. Let me give you some examples One of the most powerful ones What a streak is, is it's just a counter that measures the number of days that you've used You just take that number, you put it very prominently and then people come back every day. And the reason people come back if they don't come back, and people don't want It works. Now, on the one side, streaks have been criticized getting teens addicted to Snapchat. But in the case of an educational app, streaks get people to come back Now, to give you an idea in the case of Duolingo, we have over three million that have a streak longer than 365. (Applause) That means they haven't missed a day Now, fun fact about streaks. What country do you think for an educational app? It's Japan. Of course. Shortest-ever streaks? Latin America, baby. (Laughter) But we're fun, hey, we're fun. (Laughter) Another important mechanism to get people are notifications. On the one side, notifications but in the case of an educational product, people actually want In the case of Duolingo, we have that basically chooses and also what to say in each notification to maximize the probability Now, interestingly, even after all this sophistication, it turns out that the algorithm to send you a notification Do you know what is the best time I'll tell you. It's 24 hours after There's an easy explanation. If you were free yesterday at 3pm, you're probably free today So this is what a very sophisticated (Laughter) It's funny. Now with notifications And we're not spamming, with Duolingo, we actually stop sending notifications So if you don't use Duolingo we stop sending you notifications. Now, at some point it occurred to us, if we're stopping we should let them know. So we started sending &quot;Hey, these reminders We'll stop sending them for now.&quot; You know what people do They come back. (Laughter) Passive aggressive. (Laughter) Works for my mother, works for Duolingo. (Laughter and applause) These passive aggressive notifications are really good at getting back because they feel like our green so they come back. And speaking of our because all our notifications come and well, he's passive aggressive this has given rise to a lot that make fun of the great lengths to get you back to learn a language. Here's one of my favorite ones. This is it's a meme, (Laughter) Basically looks like you forgot And then there's an intruder alert, presumably the owl broke into your house Now, Duolingo has entered the zeitgeist. And there's thousands of memes, And it's because we've managed by using the same techniques that mobile games and social media use And this is a really important point, let me say this. I don't actually believe that there's be as engaging as something like TikTok But the good news is that -- And by the way, the reason is because ultimately you have And it's hard to compete with, But the good news is See, here's the thing. When you're learning something, Whereas when you're scrolling a lot of times afterwards, you feel So I think it's actually OK is only 80 or 90 percent as engaging because the other 10 or 20 percent will be provided though of course, not much more than that. This is really a key point. If we want to get people you can use the same techniques to get people to do it. And even if you're not as engaging you can still get hundreds of millions In the case of Duolingo, for example, there are more people learning languages than there are people learning languages (Applause) And this is true My hope is that -- I know my hope is that as humanity, we can do what Duolingo has done but for all other subjects. Where we can get people like millions of people to learn or physics or whatever. I hope for a future in which in which we can deliver high-quality using a mobile phone. But the single most important thing is a reminder to please, do your language lessons today. Thank you very much. (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause) Helen Walters: Luis, thank you so much. I wonder if you can just say how do you think you can apply to other subjects? So you mentioned math, How do you do that? Luis von Ahn: I think in particular, subjects that are learned and it turns out most things are learned through You learn to read through repetition, you learn elementary school math Most things that you can learn you can actually gamify where people just It's a little harder for things That probably is going to require Sal Khan is doing a really But for things that require I think we can use the same methods. (Applause)