The great amphitheater that we know as the Vespasian around 70-72 AD. Like any big stadium, it was for the public's games. Except the games were quite different at times Today the crowd is thrilled when a ball flies days at times that object might have been This bloody entertainment enthralled the crowds the "bread and circuses" that pacified from life's difficulties. Today we'll look at just how far the Romans people, in this episode of the Infographics Roman Colosseum . As Steven Pinker writes in his book, "The brutal at times. Today we eat pizzas that come in boxes decorated thinking about the total depravity that happened And so, if tomato sauce drips onto the print fitting in a way, as the place was often soaked Pinker writes that large audiences would cheer violated, and sometimes ripped apart by wild A man acting the part of Prometheus would a trained bird would actually rip out his The crowd was delighted! People fought to the death, and the fight Pinker reckons about half a million people . But let's see what others say. Thrown to the beasts Live Science tells us that the Romans had This was called a "petaurua" and it was 5 meters (15 ft) into the air. Now, that's not such an exciting game, but of the entertainment. What would happen next is wild animals, such would be let into the arena, sometimes through nowhere. The men, both naked and with their hands often as not to be the man on the ground. Oh, what fun. It was easy pickings for the starving animals, But part of the enjoyment was putting a bet For the spectators this was quite the spectacle, Cup is to people now. Believe it or not, this spectacle known as time entertainment between the other games. It happened to men condemned to death, a capital criminals, and enemies of the state. To think people now get Justin Timberlake When we say we "get thrown to the beasts" used to happen. Did anyone ever survive this? Well, there are stories, but who knows. One such tale says that a slave called Androcles want to eat him, or even nibble. This wasn't because the lion was full that the lion while in North Africa and pulled What goes around, comes around. The terrible Emperor Commodus This emperor was known as a bit of a megalomaniac in front of the crowds. Except of course the fights were not fair You probably know him as being the bad guy As the fights were not fair, the Roman people choice but to cheer lest they die a horrible It's said Commodious slaughtered 100 lions He decapitated a helpless giraffe, also an had a lot to aim for. He killed many other wild animals, too. As for humans, he would fight them in the This was seen as him having a better side, his competitors off. Possibly his worst feat was to take people accident or illness, and then slay them all. Commodus didn't much like disabled people people to look. Another of his spectacles was to scour Rome them fight to the death. The recreation of myths Steven Pinker wrote that people would be sent characters, such as Prometheus. He was a trickster type of Titan who created defied the Gods in doing so. His punishment was to be tied to a rock for day and an eagle, really Zeus in animal form, That liver would come back the next day and The Romans would play this out with a trained say the man's stomach would be cut open feast. He didn't get to do it again the next day The Smithsonian writes that the myth of Orpheus Orpheus was kind of like one of those people magazines, as he could sit among wild animals In fact, it's said he could charm anything lyre. The Romans put a little bit of a dark bent coliseum. Instead of charming the wild animal with his to shreds by a wild bear. We are not sure if this was supposed to be Just slaughter The Smithsonian tells us that at times the blood being spilled, rather the fun was just the better. This was because showing the people what strange powerful the Romans were. They could travel to distant lands and bring public. These animals didn't have a chance as they Roman hunters dressed in lots of armor and The favorite animals to be killed were anything leopards. But other slaughter included elephants, bears, giraffes. The Smithsonian writes that emperor Titus Emperor Trajan had 11,000 of these wild beasts Women Too One of the great spectacles, for some people death. This didn't happen anywhere near as often it happened. As the women were usually weaker, they might a club or a knife. Sometimes the women were highly trained gladiators, harshly punished. "And sometimes it chanced that someone had women he had bought must fight among them," Septimius Severus banned women fighting in Squashed Another form of animal-related capital punishment Historian Alison Futrell wrote in her book would sometimes be marched into the arena, on them. It's written that getting elephants, or in front of thousands of screaming people Imagine training a bird of prey to rip out To do this, they had to be trained by what The word also meant the people who would be There was even a school where people were the bestiariorum. I'm not going in As you can imagine, the prisoners that were were not keen on dying this way in front of So, many took their own lives before they It's written that there was a mass suicide 29 men strangled each other before they could Roman historians wrote that one man thrust his neck, a better way to go than being eaten Another man forced a toilet sponge down his Roman philosopher Lucius Annaeus Seneca wrote He surely deserved to be allowed to choose How bravely he would have wielded a sword!" If you've read this philosopher, you'll life's hardships and looking death straight Easy for him to say, he never experienced bear. Carpophorus It's said that this bestiari was one of arena. The story goes that he fought and killed 20 It's also said he was a bit of a Dr. Doolittle Some historians say this might not to be true, train wild animals to violate women. He did this by waiting until female animals makes them attractive to the male of the species. He would then rub that on female slaves and violating a woman in the arena would be greeted In the book, "Those about to die" it is before he got the animals properly trained usually survive the ordeal." Apparently, such a spectacle was to represent such things when he had taken the form of So, do you think you could stomach the Roman Would you rather kill yourself than be subjected Why do you think people enjoyed this, what Let us know your thoughts in the comments. Also, be sure to check out our other episode Thanks for watching, and as always, don't See you next time.