While our previous videos on the nomadic peoples informed you on a new tribe or confederation, knows of the Seljuks. After bursting into the high-medieval Middle vast empire. The Turkic incursions into the traditionally into the mighty Ottoman Empire. However, to begin that story, we must travel again, look at events transpiring on the vast We understand that not everyone likes the Legends we can keep our rendering equipment So, help us reach the goal of 70 installs, You can follow the progress in the description. In Raid, you can explore millions of Champion as you take on bosses, dungeon runs, campaign, With hundreds of Artifacts to equip and over team, develop your Champions, and Raid your What we love about the game is the beautiful Everyone will find something that they will is a great reason to keep playing. Raid recently released its biggest update Challenge Rooms, and 12 Bosses to take on. Please play through at least a tutorial and Let's reach that goal in the description! If you are a new player and use our link - you refill + 1 Clan Boss Key + 5 Mystery Shards All this will be waiting for you HERE! Download Raid using our link in the description the rewards! At some point in the late eighth-century, al-Mahdi, a horde of Turks, known as the Oghuz, the Caspian and Aral seas. This area became home to the so-called Oghuz vast distances in order to secure optimal Though there were some sedentary settlements by the Gokturks had been inherited by the been at least loosely subordinated to. It is in the late tenth-century Khazar realm Turkic warlords, known to history as Duqaq According to records composed during the reigns their dynasty served Khazaria's khagan as This seems to imply that Seljuk and his father other elite Khazars, have embraced Judaism. During the Khazar disintegration during the The true reasons for this are shrouded under intrigues to rebellion by Seljuk himself. Modern scholars even argue that changing climate migrate in order to escape pasture shortage. Seljuk led his band of 100 horsemen, 1,500 located on the fringes of Islamic Khwarezm. Jand was the first Muslim-ruled region through is there that Seljuk embraced the Islamic This is a crucial moment in history, as it consequences. With that, Seljuk supposedly managed to gain who incline towards holy war' - men who This brings us to the reason for this increasing historian Kim Hodong: "Islam provided nomadic homogenous religious community and religious Islam, becoming an ideology of unification This is essentially all we know about Seljuk to some sources at the age of 107. At that point, the region had been going through Two militant new realms - the Karakhanids Ghaznavids in Khorasan and the Oxus - emerged, Emirate. Compounding this were events on the eastern were disrupting matters in the process of call the 'Great Liao'. This pushed waves of refugees towards the tribes were located. The Seljuks now began to gain strength rapidly, of these rowdy, disaffected nomadic warriors, ghazi. After the progenitor's death, his elder chief, and we find him intervening in Transoxiana's as 'Ali Tegin, who tried to establish himself Tegin was opposed by his own brother's most Ghaznavids. It was in a military engagement on the steppe first saw the Seljuks, and was somewhat awestruck No longer the small band of a hundred people, Mahmud's response was to seize and imprison - hoping that this would simply dissolve the Mahmud of Ghazna's actions did lead to some soldiers, while some chose to flee west into However, most remained where they were, and By its end, three figures had taken their and Tughril - who were the sons of Isra'il's of the inner clan. While the Seljuks were sorting themselves and the sultanate was inherited by a son, Despite resolving their own leadership contest, by the Karakhanids of 'Ali Tegin. No longer safe where they were, the Seljuk They were assisted in this by a treacherous who helped the nomads pass through his lands province from his sovereign. Despite Harun's assassination at the hands continued south. Eventually, they arrived in a town known as Khurasan was an important province; it was power, and now seemed very vulnerable. While nomadic life and reputation is often just wandering mass-killers hungry for conquest, for themselves and their families. So rather than invading, the Seljuk chiefs governor, Suri, explaining their situation Sultan Ma'sud on their behalf. The Seljuks essentially pledged their service to 'rest in his great shadow', if only own on Khurasan's frontiers, where they Moreover, they also pledged to defend Ghaznavid Seljuk leadership stated that "If, god forbid, what will happen, for we have nowhere else However, Ma'sud, distrustful because of territory, declined the offer and prepared This expedition was a total disaster that a cavalry ambush on the plains near Nasa in While the sultan quickly acceded to the now Seljuks, feeling in control of the situation, When these were declined, Seljuk hordes swept the great cities of Merv and Nishapur by 1038. The sole exception was Balkh, which remained War continued for the next two years, with the defence of Khurasan against the Seljuks. Though we don't know much about the campaigns, won. Ma'sud's armies were incredibly powerful, use and possessing high quality, heavily armoured However, these tactics were not suited for lightly armoured Seljuk Turks, mounted on The potential for Seljuk cavalry armies to scatter Ma'sud's armies thinly across Although sometimes successful in restoring failed to re-secure the province, and were small town of Dandanaqan near Merv in May A massive Ghaznavid army, with many dozens towards Merv in search of the Seljuks, but the long desert road and a lack of supplies. When a brawl broke out between the sultan's use of a water source, Chaghri, who had been with his own units, pounced just as the Ghaznavid Mounted Seljuk ghazi, wielding their fearsome but disorganised force that was arrayed in army. Ma'sud fled back towards India, but quickly After the victory at Dandanaqan, the Seljuks They at first refused to believe Ma'sud themselves close to their horses in fear of returned. When the leadership eventually did realise they set about securing Khurasan for themselves. Hostile sources emphasize devastation in the but it can't have been entirely their doing. After all, Ma'sud's giant army had also during years of campaigning. Pro-Seljuk texts especially emphasize the and crushing the bandits which had arisen Rather than acting as a steppe warlord with conquered, Tughril - who became the prominent to act in the manner of a legitimate Islamic It is said that Tughril even went so far sacked the city of Nishapur. Upon taking his seat on Ma'sud's throne Sultan and asked for guidance from the Islamic that: "We are new men and strangers, and The Turks had accepted Islam but had done customs, and tribesmen still making up the From this point, a Turkic flavour was added to this day. It also seems that the first elements of Seljuk minted in the name of Tughril and the Caliph as the leader of Islam. Each Seljuk leader went on their own path Musa was given Herat to govern, while the were given the eastern and western areas respectively. The former repulsed a series of attempted Seljuk raids on Sistan, while his brother Islamic world. The areas of Iraq and Iran not yet under Seljuk a group of Shi'ite princes, known altogether These regional sovereigns often squabbled Beginning in about 1050, through a mix of allies, and outright conquest, the militarily the Iranian plateau. As nomads, the Seljuks largely concentrated and a few main cities - such as Ray and Hamadan Aside from these strategic settlements, Tughril urban areas. Therefore, many city-dwellers in the annexed short term, and local princes were even allowed they did it under Seljuk auspices. In this period, we also have clear evidence In the key cities under direct rule, 'agents' who prioritised the raising of revenue from As the realm's governance matured though, After Isfahan was conquered in 1051, a system tempt peasants back onto lands that they had Forts were also constructed in order to ensure a measure intended to reassure merchants and Tughril's actions so far had attracted particularly Caliph al-Qa'im's vizier The greatest of Tughril's achievements, Abbasid rulers had largely lost political formerly vast empire by the eleventh-century, in Baghdad was the symbolic leader of Sunni However, the Shi'ite Buyids occupying Iran leading to a Sunni reaction in the Round City, vizier, who was known for his fanatical hatred He saw the potential of these increasingly his caliph's initial suspicion, convinced Tughril. In Muslima's mind, the Seljuks would be in the city, most prominently the commander general named al-Basasiri. The vizier and Tughril planned extensively Peace'. Muslima had various religious titles granted persecution of heretics in both Baghdad and The intended symbolism was clear - Tughril enemies were Tughril's enemies, making With the road paved specifically for his advance, on the borders of Iraq, its leader proclaiming traditional pilgrimage to Mecca - and to lead Caliphate of Egypt afterwards. Whether or not Tughril actually intended of deliberately engineered propaganda aimed Sunni ruler. Seeing the writing on the wall, General al-Basasiri Then, finally, Tughril and his Seljuks peacefully the Islamic holy month of Ramadan. They were welcomed by a procession of local see what was happening. It is at this moment of Sultan Tughril's and conclude by examining just how far the In the later 900s, Seljuk and his tiny group into the Muslim world as irrelevant pastoralists. Less than a century later, his grandson was the head of massive Turkic army, tens of thousands of Islam's most revered religious figure. Though this was likely the proudest moment Seljuk Empire was yet to come, when it fought eventually defeating the Romans at Manzikert We always have more stories to tell, so make have pressed the bell button. We would like to express our gratitude to who make the creation of our videos possible. Now, you can also support us by buying our This is the Kings and Generals channel, and