This video is sponsored by Squarespace an all-in-one website builder to create The escapement is the most important part of a generates periodic pulses that we can use to keep time. In the case of an atomic clock, we measure a quartz watch we use an electronic oscillator In this video Alastair and I work together to with the bridge that holds the main bearing and we use traditional watchmaking techniques, I am cutting the bridge from brass plate using [Music] We opted to scale this mechanism by approximately to see in a watch to make it easier for some of the components are still tiny, such as bridge to support the balance wheel. This In a mechanical watch, instead of a ball bearing, ruby jewels are used instead. This is a hard-wearing bearing at the scale of a watch, In fact, usually a good quality watch will the whole movement. The number of jewels used in a Whether it is a jewel or ball bearing, a the bearing in place. Here, I use a but because the end of the reamer is very of my reaming to determine the fit of the The bridge is supported on pillars which locate To finish filing the bridge I machine a button to act as a filing guide. Traditionally which makes for a fool-proof system but will To finish the edges, I use a fine escapement file. Moving side side-to-side like this is called I machine the pillars from silver steel. have a male thread and the other side will the bridge. It's really important that will help to minimise friction in the bearings staff interface with each other properly. Normally, I use a cutting liquid to lubricate I experiment with a paste instead. to be desired so I will go back to I face the thread to length and tighten the pillar all the way into the mainplate. [Music] To ensure the bearings are axially aligned, I of each pillar to within around The end can then be drilled and [Music] I decide to keep the bridge pillars uniform embellished by being thinned in the middle. beneficial to thin them to reduce their weight and Now, I begin work on the mainplate. the mainplate is revisited throughout the more and more holes are marked out and drilled modern methods, the mainplate is made in machine. I use the bridge as a template. alignment even if my initial marking everytime I assemble the bridge and mainplate I To make sure I don't mar I use brass-faced pliers to Before we get cracking on the balance Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring features is their courses tool. Sharing your to generate passive income and squarespace's to set up. Courses on Squarespace use the same your Squarespace website so you can seamlessly add or video backgrounds. Squarespace also lets select whatever pricing or subscription works for memberships services and physical products yourself head to squarespace.com for a free squarespace.com/chronovaengineering to get a Now let's move over to Alastair's workshop, The balance wheel forms the oscillator of its function but also in its aesthetics as the Balance wheels come in many shapes and sizes. artistic expression but many of them also serve this case Alastair opts for the recessed screw the screws in the rim. This version is not purpose of this is to demonstrate the principle, Alastair begins by roughing out the disc and mounting it for marking out the spokes. [Music] These aluminium vice jaws are specially designed in the milling machine once they become worn balance wheel is held in place at the bottom The recesses for the screws are the wheel is ready for radial drilling on the Alastair finishes shaping the balance wheel like this is time consuming but hugely complex shapes can be formed. Personally, I as CNC machines and 3D printers. I've whilst perhaps not commercially viable For those of you who might want to try jump straight into machining, you can go a long It's now back over to me to finish the balance lathe due to their small size. These are mass. The purpose of these screws is two-fold. term watchmakers use to describe balancing or the balance wheel. Their second function is which is a sensitive method of adjusting the wheel inertia increases and the the balance wheel oscillations speed [Music] Here, I use a broach to open the holes in the These broaches are slightly tapered, but over parallel. I debur the hole and tap by hand using I clean the wheel in acetone and give it a This is a good time to make the balance staff. difficult parts to make because the pivots are Additionally, extra care has to be taken for all finished between centres. However, because this is this particular component is actually trivial I just rely on the accuracy of my collets and where I can burnish down till At this point, I can't fit the balance wheel ring which I can attach to the balance wheel to from a traditional watch here, where we would In larger engineering applications, there are some examples that come to mind welding, brazing or gluing. In watchmaking I demonstrate this here, where I simply use a accurately 'rivet' the components together. an upright position so ensure everything is The balance wheel pivots are the most important the better. Here, you can see the balance wheel I'm after. Going back to Alastair's workshop, escape wheel can be made in a similar way to that can't be machined using an off-the-shelf cutter using a grinder. The teeth of the escape of these components serve a different purpose. One later but this holds the escape wheel in a fixed When the escape wheel is not held by the locking balance wheel to keep it oscillating. It achieves balance staff called the impulse pallet. I will Here, Alastair sets up to drill 4 holes of the rod is parted off in the lathe to in the rod are tapped. These two to which the escape wheel blank can be mounted. face and the washer to fully support [Music] Alastair roughly marks and cuts out the at this point the shape can be very rough profile in the lathe. Likewise, the position [Music] The blank is mounted in the lathe and is blank is then removed to cut and file the the lathe. Normally, we would shape but in this case, once formed, the A bearing mounted in a tool post can be This will ensure that once finished, the [Music] [Music] Normally a dividing head will use a can be fiddly to use, so Alastair instead to index the work piece round as the teeth It's back over to my workshop where I work This is done in a similar way to the balance shaft with a small radial screw to allow easy [Music] As I mentioned earlier, one of is to provide an impulse to the balance roller. For the purposes of this model although in a watch the impulse face would usually [Music] I mount the roller and escape wheel on a the separation of the two components until use the depthing tool itself to transfer the [Music] The impulse roller can now be staked we need to consider how the escape wheel potence which can made by recessing a bar A question I am sometimes asked is how do I to project. Sometimes, Hazel will work with me of the spectrum I just imagine what I want and usually makes a rough sketch in his lab book organised than me. In this case, I began with a this work is still improvised. For instance, at the recess because it's dependent on other parts to work with this handy offcut and machine spacers [Music] [Music] [Music] The chronometer or detent escapement was interesting because of its high accuracy. which is unique to this escapement. It is locking stone. This locking stone holds supplementary arc of the balance wheel. There the pivoted detent or the spring The detent is notoriously difficult to make accurately for the escapement to work. There are which is hand filed. It is partially because escapement was superseded by the lever escapement, mechanical watch today. However, you can buy a Here, I'm drilling a hole to bolt the detent to it's also good practice to pin it hole for the pin. I proceed on the [Music] The detent requires an additional spring to the unlocking pallet will simply lift this whereas in the other direction, the overcome and the gear train and escape balance wheel. Here, I work on drilling After hardening, the detent needs cleaning up but spring reasonably thin. Therefore, in its current before tempering I need a clean surface to observe clean up the spring area just enough so I can I now need to work on thinning the spring piece of paper. I work on a cork and clean I apply some beeswax to the surface of the cork, the detent in position as I gently file the detent final thickness, the workpiece becomes very I cut the extra spring from brass shim and thinner shim because the thinner the shim, the same logic can be applied to the main thin because the spring could deform under I temporarily clamp the detent to its position until I'm happy with how unlocking roller before I bolt it to roller off camera but it is similar to the Alastair works on machining the pinion. I shaft as the escape wheel, so it is wheel which will provide the torque we differ slightly from a traditional watch the escape wheel. In our case, we opted to onto the back of the mainplate to make Typically, a watch is driven by a main spring. power to the escapement. Instead though, we which is much simpler to manufacture. The weight which do not need to be portable. In fact, a gear train because the force does not Alastair makes the barrel which The barrel is bolted to the drive wheel which pinion and drive wheel on a depthing tool. This I used earlier. Instead of transferring tool onto the mainplate, he instead measuring the can then remotely drill the holes in the correct [Music] Before we begin with assembly, let's make one more allows us to attach the hairspring to the balance to the balance wheel to allow it to oscillate, spring is a fascinating component and in modern spring design and materials. I'm sure this will be I'm not trying to make an accurate timekeeper, These watch haisprings are too small though, The hairspring fits in the off-centre hole pin. I initially drill the off-centre hole then machine it down to size after the hole of the centre drill. The hairspring collet Rather than leaving the mainplate the piercing saw and files to shape Now it's ready for assembly. I begin I didn't pin this component so escape wheel shaft inserted through the I made this next component off camera and the locking position of the detent. [Music] The detent, complete with its upgraded spring steel is then bolted in place. Normally, the [Music] I slide the escape wheel pinion attached fit a washer to position the then the escape wheel. The escape wheel Then I fit the balance wheel assembly. [Music] Finally I screw in the drive wheel and [Music] A final fun experiment we can do with this each tick. From this, I calculated that watts to run. This is actually very Alastair is currently building a clock What's the cause of this I suspect most of it is due to the hairspring but I'm always interested in Thank you for watching this video. subscribing to our channel, and [Music]