Welcome to Good Mythical More. If you're anything like me, Boy, it replenishes. Boy, it refreshes. Boy, it makes you think of under swaying palm trees to fall on your head and Number one cause of But we're gonna find I'm very interested. But first, we're going Hi. Um, Hi. Uh, Rhett, I really I really like your hair. Link, I really It's really, really Yeah, anyways, I hope you have Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think we are, but not as Coconut, maybe smoke a nut. I don't know what's happening. Alright, now. I keep I do too. And I keep this one 'cause It is the cheapest. We've got 'em ranked to most expensive. Which one do you keep? Uh, I keep the You shaky shake? Of course I shakey shake. And they really want you before you drink it. Which is why -- Who's they? The people who make it. All of them say, Make sure it's cold. Cause they know you're if it's not cold. Yeah, yeah. It can taste a little bit like -- I like it so much I don't even care anymore. How many of these You know what? And what days of the week? I drink it. It's a weekend treat for me. Like, if I'm really thirsty... You don't touch it on the weekdays. I don't have a place Yeah, except right now. It's very sweet, They say it's really good feel good about drinking it. 100 percent juice. I will say it has coconut 1 percent sugar, and which is vitamin C, - It's the only -- It's the only one. Thailand. Thailand. It's the only one that we that there's anything added. Vitamin C. But that can't be bad, right? Um, well, it says Well, it says less than 1%. Less than 1%. It's still 45, uh, They needed to add mean, it's got... Exactly. Yeah, there's one, sugars in, in this one. So I'm gonna think that little bit less sweet. The Zyko Natural, We'll never know. Maybe we don't need to but the taste is great. This is too much Oh, it's a different color. Well, you can probably It's a little It's pink. It's pink. Don't worry, pink is natural. If you leave pure coconut varying antioxidant levels That's according to A pinking. So. So a pinking is good. I think a pinking Smooth. It tastes different. So smooth. It's much more of a... Natural. Natural coconut Better. It's better if you If you really, now, I don't But I do like raw coconut But don't cook coconut Definitely don't Nothing? Or a pie. But you eat raw Yes. You can think of nothing I've never, I've never anything and liked it. Huh. Well, 365. They also do... If you're on the fence, this one as much. 100 percent coconut water. I was at a, uh, I was And I went And, uh, they had a bar those resorts sometimes easy on the drinks. Makes them a little weak. Like an all inclusive Yeah. Yeah. And I went can you just give me a Well, is that a thing? Is that called something? I don't know. We could brainstorm It was probably called Co co coca vide. Palm drunk. Russian coconut water. Yeah. Now this is, I thought this I recommend it. You recommend it? Cause you're hydrating and inebriating at the same time. Wow, this one's different. This one is less coconutty I don't like this one. It has an, it has a Like the bottom A little bit. I don't hate it, but it does I don't know what it is. And that was just super good. Oh, so, so, Zico, so smooth. So... C2O? Is it a can? Uh, I'm a fan of a can because And you can plant a plant And you can plant a plant Very, It's very cloudy. But white. But white. Same problem as the other one. It's actually not as cold It almost tastes too earthy. I still like it. But this Zico is really The Zico is... They did something to Zico What did they do? Where is it? What coconuts are they using? Is it, is it Thailand? Let me read about it. Let's read the brand story. Hydrate your thirst for life. Making delicious coconut Get a quality coconut. Cut it open and ta da! I kinda feel like they're Pretty straightforward. But for those who there's Zico Natural. We blend delicious, premium, with other coconuts from other true one ingredient, no added So grab life by the balls. No, grab life by the coconuts. Twist the cap and drink goodness. So they they It is a blend. It's a blend. It's a blend. It's a pink blend and then they package it I'm a fan. I don't hate any of them. Once you've had Zico, appreciate anything else. The consistency of this Once upon a coconut. Mm. The brand is a story. Oh! What? There's extra stuff in there. What's in there? It tastes like... What is in there? 100 percent pure It's so weird how It's like... What is that? It's, it's like, it's It's, it's such a strong... It tastes fake, It tastes like a cooked and I don't like it. I think it's because No, it's made in Vietnam. - So, Vietnamese coconuts -- more like fake coconut. There's a sweetness, but don't like on a coconut cake. You know what? I totally see what But if you really like I can't believe how It's the only one Best if used by Siender Can. Okay. It's gonna be good I don't, oh wow, I don't Once upon a coconut. I thought it was one of Zola. From the makers who I mean, having a That wouldn't be bad for me. Well, you might get too much. Yeah, I would have You might get too much. You're not really supposed into your drinks like that... I don't. Alright, so... What's the brand story? Zola. Looks a lot like 365. Crisp, clean taste, a slightly It's the best tasting Um, where are these from? It's pretty good. Um, Thailand. I think it might Big box taste good. Big box taste good. No, well, it's very It's better... to me, because it's less... I think it might be I like it better. And it's that much Where are they getting Is it a blend? Thailand. Nope. They're just good. It's plain good. Zola. Oh. Sorry for smacking so much. This is how we have to taste. We have to taste that way. All right, shake that one up. And pour it right there. Harmless Harvest, it, their you're doing a good thing. It's so pink. And this one looks like We're talking 36 cents an ounce for that, so like. I used to have a to Harmless Harvest. Did you know it was this pink? Look at that, it's They can't see it. Hold on, look at that. It's almost grape drink. Hold on, you subscribe What was that? You subscribed to it. Yeah, during the pandemic. It was, uh, a little treat. Did you get a swimsuit issue? Oh, yeah. Okay, so... I mean, I Where's mine? Right in the front. Oh, yeah, it's pink. What? I mean, how is there than everybody else's? There's some that are pink And I have looked at picked up multiple until This is crazy. It doesn't taste It tastes different. It doesn't taste like What do you think A little fruity. A little almost strawberry. The pink is getting I know that. You're being swayed by it. Tell me it doesn't I wouldn't say that. Mm, go back to Zico. Go back to Zola and It's Tangier. It does have a more of a, it's got that tang in it. Which one are we There is a fruity quality that Then drink that and it's Now drink it and This is really soft. Soft. - This one... Tell me I'm wrong. - There is a slight little -- - Something... It has almost a bite to it. Instead of it being soft It's not bad. A lot of the coconut waters, a softness to the palate. But this one is like -- It's not even cloudy. It's like it's more It's been filtered. So yeah, I was always were pink, and it's true. So it has to do with the air, but it proves that Who told you this? You said you were once Google. And young coconuts season have lower sugar compounds than those harvested But it's, but they're You know, before Google, a lot of questions. You think your grandma about coconut water? She didn't know, but she You know, grandmas don't because of Google. They're not -- You know, when you have Google? A product of Thailand. I used to ask my So these are still Thai. Um, their store, their brand Can you read it for me? Regenerative That feels pretty awesome. With brighter futures for Regenerative organic restoring soil health and while capturing atmospheric There's a lot to That's why -- And then it -- Then it says deez nuts. And then it says Ha! They got a sense of humor. Didn't say that. There's a QR code. Not falling for that. I don't want to Right, yeah, yeah. You scan that and Um, this is good. You'll never get Can I have the We're saying it's the - going for the award winning taste... Sweet Thai coconuts. I think Zola tastes better. You think Zola tastes better? This tastes like a ice cream. Wow. Can you believe that? Wow. Does it not taste It tastes like That is wonderful. It does. Is it got added sugar? It's award winning. Um, sweet Thai coconuts, 45 Total sugar's ten, They got the How many, what's the sugar of In the same size? Fourteen grams of sugar... In what, in what? Eight fluid ounces versus... So it has... - How many grams? No added sugar for For 240 mils. 280 mils has... They Oh! So there's less sugar in this. There's less sugar, but it 10 grams versus 14 grams. And there's, uh, there's Traveling through Thailand, Served at numerous blah, blah, blah, blah. This is their story. Our premium coconuts Thailand's famous groves. Sweet Thai coconuts. We know how to We grew up drinking Our authenticity and award Sweetly crisp and Nirvana offering we bring the experienced taste buds Thai family business. Drink happiness. That's a pretty It says contains Well, what's the other 10%? Vibes? Coconut water, coconut 1 percent fruit sugar. But it still has less sugar. Oh, I don't know about that. This is, this is your If you... Wanna treat yourself. Get yourself the ice Just try it. See if we're right. I know we are. But if I'm going for one to go back to Harmless. I think I might And you're going to Zola, and way back down to the cheap What's over there? We're not gonna go all just gonna skip down. Oh, I was gonna go And see what we've been cheating ourselves. I mean, the Vita It's cheap. It's a good size. It's kind of, it's kind of that we've been through this. I don't hate any of them. Except for this one. I kind of feel like you can't and if you want it to be real you want it to taste like ice Yep, yep. Go to votelikeabeast.com as your one stop election polling place, research your rights as a voter.