Hey, Craig, are you planning to review Alan Lee illustrated edition No. No, I wasn't. But now I am. How much did I spend on this? Holy sh-- Oh, boy. Basically, what I want to find out Is it really worth that much money? So we're going to compare it Should be fun. Let's pop this thing open. I do like how they packaged it. I don't think you're going to receive As long as it went into the box undamaged. Okay. All right, so first impressions there's one thing that should be versus other deluxe, This one is three volumes. The other ones tend to be a single volume You know, it Do you like the bigger ones, when it's broken into three volumes? Tell you what, this is more expensive. Anyway, let's bust this open, We'll take a look at the cover, We'll look at the text itself, I mean, it's Alan Lee. What do we expect besides genius? All right. First impressions we've got. It's it is a very similar situation here All right. Obviously more shelf space. My hope is that so tightly so that the book can lay I don't have high hopes for that, that you commonly see, in But I guess we'll find out. Okay, I think it's got some real shelf appeal. And I will say, Silmarillion edition or no, They both kind of did it, but The Hobbit that was, sticking out on one side It was a terrible idea. Okay, so here we go already. We've got some loose threads, "debris." Seriously get off of my book. So we've got an Allen Lee illustration That is gorgeous. That's, I would assume the Tolkien Oh, yeah. Okay, on the pages here I'm trying to decide what this is, but that looks like, And I wonder if that's supposed to be, where, the ring was lost All right, so we've got some inserts here. The same thing that. Oh, wow. Okay, so it's two black rider inserts. Interesting. It's like one for a gift or what? I'm not sure. And in the back, All right, so this is a loose map, There is something to having the map glued into the back of the book, There is something there. But on the other hand, I like being able Two tone map looking pretty good. It's not huge. It's not as big And it's not glossy, but it is I'm not seeing any under printed sections, well for the text inside the book. Oh, oh, before we go any further, because I noticed that the box What? Okay, Sammath Naur. That's pretty cool. So we're at the cracks of doom and we've got the you can see. Well, I don't know if you can see it. Maybe with the overhead you can see lava, Okay. That's pretty cool. We'll come back to that, I suppose. All right, let's get into the book. We've got, as it This feels thinner and cheaper than the leather This, and I'm going purely by feel here. And, hey, I'm no expert in different leather types, and obviously but this one feels like it's going to stand up to a little bit feels more like cloth. When I, I get some noise off of this, similar to cloth versus leather. So I'm curious about what that actually is We're not going to look but we can kind of take a look That's really nice paper. Oh goodness. Yeah, I do like that. Two tone red and black and I assume. Yep. Up at the top we have the chapter headings So this is what we were talking about chapter Now the illustrations, I have to assume It's probably just a repackaging Now, there may be some new ones. I don't recognize the Black Rider, but we Oh, yeah. There's my favorite, version of. I think that's supposed to be Luthien. Rather than Arwen. So. Yeah, Lots of classic Alan Lee. So if you're looking for 60 new watercolors by Alan Lee, All right, Can I set this open? How hard do I have to crack the spine Okay. It's not sitting open very well. Maybe if I read it several times, but it is sewn, so the binding should hold together And if I'm right in the middle of the if I go further back. Yeah, I guess if you're willing to break It can work for you. Probably not toward the beginning, which I was hoping they wouldn't But there you have it. We do have a sewn binding Yep, the overhead You can see the string going through My guess is if I poked my finger that it will be a combo of glue and sewn. Yeah. Okay, so they've got a cardboard backing, which I'm sure is used to glue the pages together and sew them. So yeah, it's probably a hybrid system. So yeah, this thing ain't falling apart That's good news, at least. And now let's take a look at the printing. How are the margins? There's enough of a margin for my thumbs So that's good. I'm not enough of an expert in fonts font this is, but it is well printed. The line height but that when you're trying to do, you know, 480,000 words, you're So at least they give you All right. Let's take a look through, and see if we see any printing Let's have a look. Yeah. So far so good. I don't see any printing errors So yeah, I'm happy with that. That's looking good. Let's And then maybe we can compare it, Two Towers has okay. It has his illustration of Helm's Deep. Very cool. Let's see what's on the pages and. Okay, so that's kind of the same thing. I was right, it's the riverbed. But this one does show the ring. So now I'm curious if we put the, return of the King with it in order. What does it look like? So here's what the pages look like. I suppose the idea here put the spines in. Obviously, that would defeat the purpose archival copy, All right, so two towers ... Let's see Yeah. So. Oh there's only Did I get a mistake. Ooh. Maybe I got a copy that wasn't Okay. So we've got the Helm's Deep insert Okay, so this one does not have a map Have. Yeah. It's not gonna it's not going to lay open. Honestly I wish that it would Yeah. It's still. Yeah. Now, not really, but. Oh, Hey, we're being nitpicky, and honestly, I should be at this price point. These should be pretty perfect, right? Okay. The return of the king. We have Minas Tirith burning. Oh, that's a cool shot I like that. And again one insert so I suspect I suspect that I was not supposed Let me know if you all got two. And we do have another map in the back All right, so now we have This is well printed as well, man. It arises so far away. No wonder Okay, so there we go. That's what. That's what it looks like. Now give me a minute. I'll go through and see if I can notice the paintings and whatnot. Okay. Very similar. We've got the fell beasts with the Nazgul. Okay. So we are going to have I assume it says here on the card So those, those two motifs, Page edges sprayed for the first time So we are getting some extra. Don't get me wrong, but you're not getting Honestly, you don't need them. The ones that are already in And I just noticed something I didn't even think about it. This is even pretty close And look what it does. It lays open. And the further you get, the easier Okay, so you compare that with this. And it's just it's not, Yeah. Because I was messing with it It almost kind of stays open, So if we compare these editions, Why why does this not stay open? Well, a couple of reasons. I would assume. One, the weight of the paper. This is very thick, thick, gorgeous paper. Really feels nice in the hand honestly. So that's not a complaint. It's very tightly bound though. And so the pages want to stick together and not stay open versus this one. Oh here. Let's look at it top down as I open it up. Look at how easily this bends. And this is also going to be easier Although that doesn't explain and end pages being able to do that. But you look at how loosely this is bound and how easily the spine is able Hey, Sam, who am I? "Ash nazg durbatuluk!" Don't joke about that, Mr. Frodo. And the other nice thing about having a huge, huge edition is that when it's this big, comparing the size of it as well, like, it's much taller, it's much wider. The nice thing about having one this big So you probably saw that as I was laying I don't think that it is as well printed, margins and it's got a good sized text. The question is whether it's worth for it, and honestly, it's probably Because, for instance, one of the questions I'll have Again, It says quarter bound in blue cloth boards. That doesn't sound like any leather I'm sure they couldn't say it was leather if it wasn't some type There are a few nitpicks. Sure, some of the threading on the borders clean as I was hoping, I like the design. I like the border that we get around So it looks like we get three new Alan We get the new Alan And of course we get the illustration So are you getting enough new stuff No, probably not, but honestly, for the new stuff. Like that's all great. But at this point, of the rings, Or you want to And you want all the new editions? I don't know, honestly. You tell me. Is it worth it? I think it's going for about 250 right now. That might go up and when you watch this video. But yeah, would it be worth it For me, it's worth it because again, I'm kind of an obsessive different editions. I like to compare and contrast, owning many copies of my favorite book. But if that's not the boat you're in. Yeah, that's fine, Anyway, let me know in the comments Be sure to give the video But let's see you out with a few nice We'll do some good shots