(jazzy music) - Everyone is in a hurry today. Everyone say, I can't cook. I don't have time to cook. Well, you don't need that And to cook well, all more than time. We don't have much time today. I'm going to put the timer time of our show and by then That is, I hope so. So we put this here and with a grand dish. It's a nice menu that we This is bulgur, which is a type of... It's a wheat. A cracked wheat, which has And we're going to season that with onion and with scallion. With a little bit of curry that we call currant. And we start then with this first, because this is the longest of our meal. And we'll start with the onion. It's always interesting to cook with those little black raisins here. As I said, they are called currant. And they are called those come from a town called Corinth. C-O-R-I-N-T-H. And someone must have misspelled And that's why they are called but they are actually raisins. Tiny raisins. You see the currant doesn't dry well, it's full of seed inside. So I have this on high, a little And with this, the onion first. The onion is going to saute for like a minute or so in there. (pan sizzling) And with this, we put the curry. The curry powder here, is actually a mixture of different spice. Turmeric, coriander, It is not really a plant, although there is a plant called curry which is part of this, but it is not really that So, scallion on top of it. Give you a little bit of color in this. We have the scallion. You see very often when you cook fast, the hardest part is to get your pot hot. I do soup very fast like that at home. And really the longest part of the soup is to boil the water. People do often at home cook spaghetti. When I cook spaghetti, I can have an egg and a cup of And then I do fresh pasta. But the first thing that I do before that, I put a big pot of water on the stove because by the time the water has boiled, the pasta is finished and it's boiling. I put it and it's cooked Look at the beautiful in that mixture of raisins. I mean, in currant and all this. So we put the bulgur wheat in there. This is what you do. The tabbouleh salad with it. Some salt, cracked pepper. Black pepper of course is the best. And I have two cup of chicken stock here, which is twice the amount of the liquid. You wanna bring that to a boil. And as it boil, I'm going to and cook it for about 15, I'm not going to do the dishes in between, but maybe I will have The second thing that I'm going Let's see that. Be sure that it comes to a nice boil. And for dessert, we are doing a very And I have that pineapple right here. Okay. Now, is this boiling? You have to wait until you are sure that it's to a strong and lower the heat to medium low. Now, there is many people who tell you how to choose a pineapple. If it's green, it's not ripe. Apparently it doesn't mean anything. More important, is the smell underneath. I've been told also that leaf like that, if it comes Some other people have So a lot of it is luck, You know what I say, if that's the one that I choose. So we cut that in half. You could use a couple of those actually for decoration. That's not a bad idea. And this, I wanna cut in half. This way here. Yeah, this one is nice and ripe. I can see that. So here we are cooking for four people. I think half of one is quite heavy. Will probably be enough. And we're going to do a sauce of different ingredient that I have here. And I have, again, those tiny Some cognac. About two tablespoon of cognac. Other sweetening agent. We have a bit of creme de cassis, which is a black currant liquor like. And a bit of a brown sugar. So that will be the base of the maceration for the pineapple. I think I put all of this in there. Fine. So the way I cut this, I About a couple of wedge per person. I don't know whether I'll do more. Then I'll cut the top part of it, which is the woody part. And the part underneath I cook... I cut it directly on top of the skin. Then you can cut it into pieces like this and just add it to your sauce. Especially here I have another board, which is clean, but if I do it on the or something, I'm careful to keep that or as I say, so that it doesn't You know what's very good with pineapple, it's very, very high in And it's also terrific to do sherbet like. Make beautiful sherbet. All you have to do, it's a puree of this with a bit of citrus fruit and freeze it. And it makes a great sherbet. So here we are. I think that it's... I put another wedge here which And I think it's really kind You could serve that with a if you want or nothing at all really. Here, it's good. Wanna saute it here to flavor it. That's it. And I'll leave it to macerate in there. Maybe (indistinct) here to remind you that it is pineapple. To remind me it is pineapple. Okay. Though we finished with this. This is really boiling. Oh, though you may And now we move to the main course, which is grilled lamb chop. And I bought those lamb chop And we're going to flavor and with herb here. I have savory, which is in the family of the thyme. This is fresh savory. You can use fresh thyme or as well as dry one sometime. We're going to use in fact, a lot of different dry Again, here I would want for the grill. This is one lamb chop per person and if you differ it properly, six ounces, it should be enough. One per person. We tend to have much now than we used to. That is in the US basically in Europe. I remember when I was a child, if we had one pork chop... One lamb chop, it was always one. It was never two or three. And the steak were very small also. So, this is pretty clean. I'm putting a bit of salt And this, actually you can do that Again also with a bit of oil on top, which is what... Not what I'm going to do, because I'm going to start But you could do that. So here I have a little bit of oil. Like two teaspoon, should be enough. Some of that mixture on top, then I put it here on the other side. I love grilled lamb, it As you can see that lamb which indicate quality, domestic lamb. So-called domestic lamb, will And the fat itself will And those are mild. Milder than New Zealand which tend to be strong because more than anything else. So, I put that to grill in the middle. I can keep that on this side here. And now we're going to which is shrimp on green. Like this. That we'll use a bit later. And I have here a mixture I have dry tarragon. I have thyme here. I have cayenne. I have oregano, coriander. So it's a mixture of very spicy things that we are going to put together. The Shrimp here, if you want to peel your shrimp, sometime I do that with the shell on. You just go around and It looks nice with the tail. You can leave the tail or remove it. Actually with the tail sometime And I do little rabbit with that. Like this that I cook. You see? You just put a skewer through it. A toothpick so they hold So the shrimp... Again, so they're relatively small shrimp. You buy the shrimp pay or pound. That is so many to the pound. And those are about 30, 40 to the pound. So you serve four or I have a mixture here of that I'm putting on top. Pressing into it. And into this also, I'm putting and that could be done ahead and you could let it macerate. Then underneath, we're And I have spinach here. I washed the spinach ahead. So, you can also buy now so it's all right. And in the spinach, I could even put a little bit I think that with this on And you put your spinach they are still wet in there and there will be enough moisture in it. So it will melt... I mean the spinach... I mean the amount of spinach will give you enough vitamin So very high in vitamin A. Like all the green leafy vegetable. Now I want to look at the lamb chop. Nicely brown on each side here. Put them on the other side. This is cooking nicely too. So we continue with the spinach. Sometime I season those spinach with garlic, goes well with it of course. There it is. A dash of salt. And that will become... We're going to arrange that and put the shrimp on top of it. So, we are going to arrange them in this. And the spinach are I put back my skillet on top of the stove. Let it get real hot because I'm going to Meanwhile, where this Move it from another part on the grill. Tend to be hotter. Yeah. When this is real hot, then I I think I didn't put salt on top of this. Dash of salt. Shrimp are available year round now. And it's one of the best shellfish providing you don't over cook it. This will cook like a minute on each side, at the most. (pan sizzling) As soon as they turn red (indistinct) on each side they are cooked. So, give them a little bit on each side. A bit of the juice on top here and now I can spread this out to have a nice bed of spinach. I think the clock is ticking. I think we have a little Here it is. I can smell the shrimp as they cook there. Saute them on the other side. See the beautiful red And if you do a lot of shrimp... If you do a great quantity, then I cook them even less because by the time you You pile them together. They continue... They have a lot of heat left in them. They continue cooking, for awhile. Okay. I could... Now I would brown this enough. What I like to do with the lamp chop is to put it in a warm oven now and keep it warm until ready to serve. And this is very important when you cook something on very high heat, the meat kind of contract and the juice go throughout And if you take like a and cut through it, all of the outside look over done. Because it's squeezed out And all the center is kind If you let that piece of meat rest, the meat de-contract and the juice... The myoglobin which is the muscle tissue run through the meat. And the whole thing is Okay. Now shrimp are cooked and we can arrange them on top here. I could pull them directly actually. You very often at home, I will serve an individual plate of food, rather than... I think it's gonna be and arrange it after. They're good and they smell good. So our dish is finished here. It can go to the dining room. We have the dessert finish. And while the bulgur, which is close to finish I'm going to do a salad. And a tomato salad. I have beautiful torpedo red onion here and real ripe tomato, which is the way the tomato should be, to make a tomato salad. So, use your thumb at the pivot to cut this out. Sometime, I remove the seed but when the tomato is it's fine the way it is. We cut it across in nice slice. I know that my knife is sharp because when a knife cut right through ripe tomato like this, So we'll arrange that around. Here we are. I feel that I have more but what I could do actually is to do a flower with the skin here. I'll have done with That's one way of peeling your tomato. I do two strip, to decorate the center. This, then I can continue to finish filling up the plate here. Put a couple in the center. And now we do the rose with this. It's going to show nicely and a tight scroll with Up. Here we are. To make it come out a bit better, maybe I put a bit of parsley here. Flat parsley in the center so that you can see the red of the tomato right here and put that on top. And it should be a bit more out and maybe a bit of onion with that. Those red torpedo onion are And I like the red onion with tomato. So, let's slice that very thin. And we can have those All around that we can Hmm that look good. So that's plenty onion. All we need on top of that, a bit of salt, cracked paper. A lot of cracked pepper. Freshly ground pepper. A little bit of vinegar. Red wine vinegar or a balsamic vinegar is good. It's actually what I have here. And olive oil again on top. Terrific. And now, that's about... Fine. I could put a bit more parsley or basil, around if I have it. Yeah, I like the green on the whole mixture. So our salad is ready. I think my timer went off. The timer was wrong. Anyway, I still have a Now we're ready anyway And I will serve that Here I have some extra savory on top. Let me get the bulgur here. Which as you can see is nice and fluffy. Cook beautiful. It has that wonderful smell. The smell of the curry comes out of it. And that as you can see, a cup of bulgur is We're going to spread it out a little bit so that we can sit our lamb And the juice of the So all we have to go is to get lamb chop, place it right on top of it. There'll be the natural And here it is our whole meal in less time that it takes and warm it up. Nice and fresh. Now it's time to enjoy it. And you should spend more time It took me 22 minutes about to cook it and I left myself three cut bread and so forth. So I have a bottle of wine here. A bottle of pinot noir. And as you can see the top of the bottle, you want to take enough Enough of the metal so the wine doesn't touch the metal. But it's not proper to This is a special type of bottle opener. Cork opener. You slide one on one side and the other one on the other side and you can move it up and then twist it as you go up. This is good for all corks Sometime with a regular and you don't want this. So we pour ourself a little We have a nice large bread here that will go well with our meal. Slice of bread. Here it is. And if we wanna recap the Remember? Macerated with all those Cayenne and coriander and so forth. Saute on the green, the spinach. Saute lightly in oil. Placed right on top of it. The dish should take a This dish could be a main The whole meal here is about 725 calorie, which is not much really. We have that bulgur with the curry in it. Those four large lamb chop, you have for the lamb chop There is no rib there. And those are grilled. Remember? About four or five minutes on each side and finish loading into the oven. And we have a delicious salad here. The tomato salad with those torpedo onion. And that's spicy and very colorful. And finally our pineapple. Beautiful pineapple marinading in it. We have creme de cassis. We have the currant and so forth. And I enjoy making that meal for you. I'm sure you can rush home and make a meal in 20 minutes as I did, Your friend will be... Or your family will be very Thank you for looking at