Over the last stretch of president. No one was a than Elon Musk. Ahhh, America's just not not America is going to reach before. The future is going Aside from stumping for Trump weeks, the tech magnate also election campaign. Musk also X as a pulpit to promote his with claims that were untrue. It's still a very powerful It's still the platform many and so many people use to and talk directly to people. So it is a real hub and And he basically turned that The admiration went both ways. Here is Donald Trump praising declaring victory in the 2024 We have a new star. A star is born. Elon. Trump's imminent presidency is already the richest man in steps into the White House on In the week after the Trump, Tesla stock surged, reaching their highest level The company's market trillion. A lot of analysts are going to as a very positive thing for Musk's influence over the streamline things that Tesla With the election of Donald term, and the appointment of government efficiency wanted to learn how Musk and benefit from having the ear Elon Musk's business empire is maker Tesla, social media intelligence startup xAI, Neuralink, tunneling venture firm SpaceX. Some of these tremendously from federal SpaceX has already earned more prime contracts with the business is coming from Department of Defense, Air Force and others. Sometimes it's NOAA, but the is very, very reliant on launches to put new various purposes, be it and communications. Abroad the U.S. government has make its Starlink satellite The company is also working Starlink called Starshield This vast reliance on SpaceX rivals to object. In 2021, Jeff Bezos' Blue lost a case where the company chosen SpaceX as the sole develop a lunar lander for NASA has since also for the task. Still, with a side, it's not hard to winning even more of these in the future. As the concerns about a within that federal Trump isn't likely to slow it SpaceX is likely to earn out over the next several years already kind of got locked grow. During his victory speech, ability to retrieve the Starship rocket and praised Wi-Fi terminals to North Helene. It was very dangerous. People would die. They had no All the wires were down. I called Elon Musk. I said, Elon, you have Is that right? Yes I do. What the hell is it? He said That's very good. I said, really badly in North Can you get it? He had that It was incredible. Tesla has also benefited support, mostly by taking policies like automotive issued to companies that make emission vehicles. Regulatory credits made up income in the second quarter third quarter. In total, the billion in sales of 2015. While Trump has often green energy subsidies and authority to singlehandedly many carbon credit markets In addition, many clean bipartisan support. 80% of the funding from the the Inflation Reduction Act Infrastructure Law have gone represented by Republicans. It would be political opportunities. Where Trump may have more vehicle tax credits offered eliminating grants for the charging, which Tesla has In a post on X in July, Musk need subsidies and that the company. Some industry At the end of the day, Tesla all the automakers, including You know, they they have the They have the lowest cost. They have the highest margins where, let's say, Trump pulls Musk and Tesla are now focused robotaxis to market, a goal Tesla is still really that technology. They have safe to drive without a human brake at all times in an the public roads. The Trump team is reportedly regulations around U.S., which would be a boon Trump did make it official and Vivek Ramaswamy will Department of Government Trump said that their goal direct quote here 'dismantle excess regulations, cut restructure federal questions about how exactly Starting with that, the create a new agency without spending. But Trump did say a announcing it that Musk and outside of government in Management and Budget. That setup will not require anything, to pass a Senate confirmation. Even as an advisor, the boost to Musk's business The number one way Elon Musk benefit from a Trump deregulation and defanging, federal agencies tasked with businesses. As head of the Government has said that he plans to of dollars from the federal We set up DOGE. Yes. How much do you think we can trillion Harris Biden budget? Well, I think we can do at Yeah. For context, in 2023, the $6.1 trillion, with the going to entitlement programs Medicare and Medicaid. On X, Musk suggests that one to get rid of the fraud programs. Data from the Office shows that the federal $233 to $521 billion annually 2022. Musk has also suggested of the country's over 400 I think there's something like That's almost two agencies the country and more being And so I call this like a overregulation. Um, and this In a recent commentary piece Musk and Ramaswamy wrote that kinds of reform regulatory reductions, and cost savings. The commentary went on to say regulations were never passed therefore be nullified, which able to do by executive Meanwhile, cutting million a year that goes to Broadcasting, $1.5 billion organizations and nearly 300 Parenthood, could deliver The two also championed the agencies calling out the seventh consecutive audit. Musk here really has the Trump that he makes cuts at in effect, directly impact That includes the SEC, that launches, kind of cutting the easier for them to launch and rules, including And then there's the National Administration. That is a big and robotaxis. The agency has been a strict safety of Tesla's vehicles. This is a major recall. Tesla is announcing after an Highway Traffic Safety Tesla is recalling 362,000 Tesla shares taking a leg National Highway Traffic critical safety gap in its Meanwhile, testing standards done on a state-by-state he would like to be process and Trump has said he Musk has said that he wants to federal motor vehicle safety That would allow you you know. You just meet this use your robotaxis anywhere If Tesla can get a favorable government talking to the these full self-driving more needle. Just to put some Within a few years, there'll the road. Half of them get their net to their net That would increase it by This is a huge lever. Elon Musk has frequently for stifling innovation. A bonfire of nonsense Yeah more lax regulation could companies. As far as what's going on with that there's probably a ability to continue to grow a more free speech type of And and lastly, don't forget I mean, the whole AI piece, regulation around AI that And I'm stretched to try to out negative for Elon. A weakened regulatory body fight against the numerous and his companies are facing There's somewhere in the probes and lawsuits involving There are OSHA investigations and SpaceX that are open. There's an EEOC civil rights They believe that Tesla and retaliation against black The labor board is possible alleged retaliation critically of Musk with this Additionally, the SEC is his brother have committed The EPA found SpaceX was in Act in Texas, and he was delayed the Starship launches with. And then you've got all Transportation safety probes. There are four open currently defects around autopilot, automated driving systems roads. He's hoping that Trump agencies to wind down and litigation they were pursuing against SpaceX, and so forth. Finally, Trump is also likely stance. Here's the president the two hour interview on X Well, you you're the greatest I mean, I look at what you say you want to quit. They go on strike. They. I won't mention the name of strike, and you say, that's You're all gone. You're all So every one of you is gone. There was a thought going into was won with UAW following trickle over and bleed over convince Tesla workers to do unionize for the first time. Now that the election has a lot of the gas in that Although Trump and Musk align it's unclear where Musk since he's changed his The Chinese car companies are companies in the world. not trade barriers much demolish most other car Tesla competes quite well in tariffs and no differential Um, so, uh, I in general, I'm He's been very easy to abroad except China, which is outside of the United States. Tesla's been producing more And he needs the Chinese One of Tesla's most productive in Shanghai, where they make make megapacks. These energy you know, utilities or businesses. They, likely won't be able to export those While tariffs could help competitors, such a move Tesla's automotive supply Though Tesla leads its domestic parts it uses, the materials and parts from And Musk's other companies global tariffs. A huge number of the AI chip using right now comes from manufacturing partner, TSMC, It's unclear if Trump's specifically to TSMC, which building out manufacturing If and when a trade war does stay out of it. It would stay out of any kind of Just like we see at companies there, they just kind of stay that, for fear of poking the dependent on those Chinese Time will tell how effective will be in influencing Trump administration. But one thing remain a businessman above I find that the best lens for the actions he takes at his like, opportunism. He takes advantage of himself and his companies So I don't know how much he but they're mutually very