Cyberpunk is dark, it's brutal, it's hopeless, but it's also a really cool way for us to think about And you might think of it as just fiction. But in the last couple of years, you've in ways that we would have never Let's try to look at Cyberpunk from an architecture and urban planning is it just fiction or Are we already dreaming of electric sheep? A portion of this video is sponsored by NordVPN. Cyberpunk is a subgenre on the darker side of technology, You have a technological, advanced, yet where people constantly struggle in the face of technology It's typically set in a dark, urbanized and globalized world subculture, with things and cybernetic implants. Big corporations control everything, and It's what you need to survive. And yet it's the tool that controls them. Say something nice. One of the key features of a cyberpunk city We have towering skyscrapers, usually overpopulated and polluted. We have labyrinthine streets and alleyways network of interconnected technologies. It's basically an urban jungle to navigate a complex But at the same time, cyberpunk and possibility where the marginalized And so I don't think it's an accident cyberpunk are set in cities like Tokyo, L.A., Hong Kong or London, North America. It's the place of hope, but it's also an icon of capitalism Super dense, But there's a lot of uncertainty But there's another more obvious reason. Cyberpunk emerged in the eighties and Japan were at the forefront We saw the rise of Silicon Valley as well as the rise of Japan's So these areas became associated with And so it served as a natural backdrop Okay, stop. In the original Ghost in the Shell, only one scene where you can obviously Having children in cities is not just economic growth, cultural continuity, They bring life and energy They bring spontaneity and play and fun public spaces that are designed It can actually lead Just look at this project Superkilen Instead of creating isolated they integrated the play areas And by doing that, more interactive, more inclusive, more The absence of children in cyberpunk is a very obvious and it just speaks to a society that's not only struggling with crime but also a society that has no hope And this isn't just fiction. Places like Japan and Korea, they're already experiencing And you can actually see how that's and the real estate market. The problems are obviously pretty complex that go into it to completely But it could also simply be that the lifestyles are really demanding working hours just leave That plus the rising cost of living. It's not really the ideal condition Whatever is the crux of the problem. If this continues to happen we're probably going to be seeing cyberpunk worlds. This is a very iconic scene in both Blade The corporations are represented style buildings that are kind of shaped At first glance, it kind of looks like compared to a traditional tower. These stepped pyramids I think the reference to mayan These were religious They used it for ritual sacrifices, and some even So these corporate towers which actually makes a lot of sense where they create the replicants. But unlike these real mayan pyramids, scale and density of these structures that they have zero regard In city planning, we have density limits. The area of the site times Basically, if the building's taller, If it's fatter than needs to be shorter because the mass of the building, The wind, and it affects in creating safe and pleasant spaces So these massive structures, and also reflects the power and control Later, when you look at Deckard's apartment, These details are actually from Frank which is an example of the textile block house or the Mayan revival house. These interlocking concrete forms that were inspired by the Mayan pyramids. I don't know maybe it's suggesting reach all the way into the depths And fast forward to Blade Runner 2049. You'll see a very similar motif So maybe not a coincidence after all. It really seems that cyberpunk cities There's There's cameras and I.D. devices. Even the structure of a building of surveillance in Bladerunner. The LAPD building is also a building It's designed to have a large landing And it's almost an inverse pyramid This towering gesture suggests and when you're on the ground plane, An IHS study predicted worldwide would reach 1 billion by 2021, 54% of the world's CCTV Can you guess That means there's 372 cameras given the country's population of 1.46 Remember Minority Report? That's already kind of happening to China. A man enters What do you say? Cells. Cells. Are you an architect or just a YouTuber? Interlinked, Interlinked. Will you cry like a baby Cells. Cells. A muskrat is drowning What do you do? Interlinked... Wait. What's a muskrat? Do you know what a nutria is? No. a quokka? capybaras? a beaver? Do you know what a beaver is? Aren't you from Canada? Wait. Your data is scrambled. I can't track your location anymore. That's because I'm using NordVPN NordVPN provides the best and fastest so I can stay safe from malware, while my privacy is protected If you don't comply, I'm going to geofence with NordVPN I can watch my favorite k-dramas but you just have to make one mistake If my personal information for any reason, the dark web monitor So good luck with that. Okay, so I am going to talk You hold on and wait there. Okay? Sure. By the way, you can get four extra months off That includes everything Also, if you don't like it, You know what? I'm going to leave now Wait, you're so far away from baseline. Interlinked. cells Don't leave me alone. By the way, if you guys are curious I created a booklet And if you're a Spoon or a producer All the links are in the description. In both of the Blade Runner movies, there's lots of great examples of what Brutalism emerged in the 1950s, Do Androids which is the book Brutalism was thought and actually it was considered especially compared to the smooth, clean, sterile quality of modernism, It was even considered a socialist form The idea was that that could be influenced It was the kind of architecture Look at me, It was democratic, Or that was the idea. Just look at this. Concrete deteriorates and weathers despite these grand social visions. It turns out people don't actually like hanging out So eventually these buildings But the problem was so massive and dense with concrete, apparently it will create a huge amount So we're stuck with these cold, raw, concrete monsters. By contrast, this is also another neon streets with buildings In most cities, and controls this type of signage, For example, Times Square, or Dundas Square. From a purely capitalistic standpoint, for advertising, don't really serve a functional purpose. But not only does it create leading to constant distraction and fatigue in people Not only does it it encourage onto spaces commercializing building facades You know what you see as a soccer player who's hogging the ball They say he's doing a Venetian how people move through Venice, Venice is one of those places where the city is So in Venice, they cover it up with a tarp, Because to go months or years without that building, Benjamin once said that to do Buildings are supposed to reflect the And it's supposed to be a reflection So when we cover of the building's facades it takes away the unique character And we start to lose identity, not just in A public square is a space that's owned by the government or a public entity, Public squares are considered and they're governed by laws In contrast, a privately owned and maintained by a private individual These spaces are typically located on private property, like a shopping mall And although they might feel public, they're actually only accessible to people I talked about the skyways and how even though that's it's not actually a public space. If you linger for too long or you're just a demographic they're in their full rights So when our public spaces start In the end, they can set the rules until it is, for example, Zuccotti Park or Liberty Park in New York And in 2011, where protesters camped out But in November 2011, although it wasn't their full because the owner of the space, Brookfield allegedly complained to the city being there. Abolish all forms of rent control, abolish all forms of social and affordable housing, privatize all street squares, public spaces and parks, whole urban districts. These are not the government This is directly or proposed by a prominent partner one of the most well-known When I asked ChatGPT, my new best friend, and its depiction of corporate dominance, Although cyberpunk movies or critique, they should not be taken I beg to differ. Commercial interests are blending and as technology gets better and as we rely on them more and more, over our privacy, over our identity, While it's impossible I think we're at a critical time How we address these challenges it could really change the trajectory That's why it's so important that we stay that we get involved in our communities And that's the only way and pave the way for a more equitable Because in the end dystopian dreams, Bladerunner sounds much better than do Androids Do we agree? Cells? Yes. This video Cells. I love you guys. Please don't leave me alone here. I just want to be interlinked maybe consider subscribing Camera rolling..and slate: