You know when something's just stop and watch it well, when are knives you're definitely to because the prices on some of stupid. I C Hey everyone. David C Andersen KnifeCenter. And these stupidly response to a reader question. from Kevin Stryker, what is the knife for the value, in your buck knife. Perhaps note, it knife. We actually don't have There goes my one joke. There hello to Thomas behind the perfect time of year to kind of some of these knives in front of prices for a little bit now. in. Manufacturers are putting holiday season, and there are I look at them and go like, How manage these prices on these shall we? The first one is significant discount out of percentage, maybe not in terms some, some even bigger dollar knife, right here, it is the if you want to pronounce it that this is a $90 premium m390 steel call it a neck knife. You could because the sheath does indeed That is a big thing at this time this is 30 bucks right now. Just versions of handle material and even a 154 cm steel option. But as the m3 90. They're all just right now, but for the m390 way to get your hands on a very low price, two and a half inch It's gonna work just fine as an acute tip, you'll be able to problem. But with this kind of finger ring here, it's also implemented as a self defense could do that very easily with the handles. For this one, you twill actually coming out on handles are a little cleaner, eye catching. And the sheath, as this nice sprung clip right waistband or in the pocket. Very into the daily carry rotation of might appreciate this type of up, we got some classy, or maybe gonna feel more expensive than would lead you to believe the a very sleek design. You've got carbon fiber inlays on the front lock. You've got a 3.3 inch D2 grind two tone, of course, finish there on the Fullers, non ball bearing equipped flipper. this is a $75 knife. It's on now. Ton of knife for the money refinement. It's just It's nicer 10 and D2 bladed folders that years. And while good from a certainly they don't feel quite and this certainly feels mentioned, is nice and crisp. with your your finger, thanks to plenty of handle length there, tough working blade profile, that feels more special than the Onion design with the field in just a minute. Normally, this Just under $28 right now, the stainless so good, clean, basic classy profile overall. And strip. So what that is you've switch around the pivot. Simply back, trim all the way out, and front, and then the knife can be tools necessary. Makes it very fuzz, dirt, grime, juices, very easy to flush out and then And to me, the most impressive since they introduced it, apart let's be honest, there is is the reassembly is very easy when you're talking. Apparently, distracted. Let me anyway, all you do set right there. Re screw the wheel, back into the the locked is the blade is perfectly have disassembled knives like actually are undoing screws, sometimes tricky to have perfectly once it's remarkably consistent each and thing indeed. All right, now we little more classically basic, I nonsense, pocket knives. I flippers that have proliferated NORAD earlier. Here's one of This has always been a very good under 30 bucks. This is a few 26 so not a huge dollar amount opportunity to again show a inch blade, D2 steel G 10 in the pivot. It's essentially as one of their much more and yet it's about half the elementum, which is a big deal. clip. It's inset into the G 10 something the elementum does not lock, which works great. You've you've got a big enough handle big enough, that's the key right more real estate, you've got can get a fingertip or something flat grind on the D2 blade. It's You can do so much worse than range. Even the normal price of lot poorer choices you might be be a bad choice at that money. right now they are just under series. Wraith knives. Very go with one of the green or red to make great stocking stuffers. couple of other different What you've got is a 2.6 inch which is way more than just a at this price range, which is a drop point shape, just a hint to going to be hard to sharpen. reliable lock back here, mid going on, just something that is handles are lightweight. The half ounces, so does not weigh a pocket clip. Here it is which is nice dual thumb studs. righties in looking for a just little pocket knife. Very hard especially, all right. Next up, Model One has long been a, you knife performance, but prices standard Aus8 models, which, step above just basic entry 40 bucks. Normally, this is on have been at home a decade ago. this version with the foliage and the 3.6 inch Aus8 blade drop works great for just about outdoors folks especially have long time. It even does some and it's just an all around good needs something that they're not Really working hard. You've length there for even any size use. It's just a classic for pocket clip, liner lock, for even though you don't have ball have these washers instead of dirty and dusty environments, at these kind of prices again. few, if I were you. Now next up, lines of something that, like the Revo Ness, very cool nessmuk fiber version with its D2 blade, right now, just under 38 bucks. right now, 3.6 inches on the blade length in terms of on just looked at. You've got And this is actually full carbon just a carbon fiber layer on top classier, a little bit nicer, a make as a result, too. You've for that nice glassy action, you can see, deep carry pocket and inset into the handle Honestly, I'd say EDC like this inspired by old school nessmuk going to be just as much at home not this fancier version myself, just get out there and use. Very knife that I included in our were talking about the rat, one choice for a folding knife. This bit of a run for its money in sale as the Ontario is right but this is the SOG TELUS FLK, normally priced at about 50 $35 mark. And I should mention, that is on sale as we are happened to have one of these this is the one I'm gonna show that the orange one is where you 3.65 inch blade. 440 C, an for the blade. Very good especially at a $35 on sale thanks to the thickness on the almost full flat grind and that going to slice pretty well. It's wood, working on stuff as you're food prep, maybe, and just, I carry stuff too, beyond just this especially is the handle. my slightly larger than average lock, but they've kind of cut handle to the liner here so that like a frame lock, but isn't a mean, the advantage of that over this right here. Sometimes way into this gap and might close it in certain scenarios, have with the handle just very nice, especially at 35 this to anyone looking for a feels a little little heavier us a good segue onto some harder at least what I consider to be first one here is actually not opportunity to showcase just how is on any normal day. This is before I tell you the price, let inch blade, 8CR Series, steel by any stretch of the When it's on a blade this thick, triad lock that cold steel uses, version of a typical lock back true bruiser of a folder. It's cardboard very satisfyingly, geometry for that. But anything split some wood with it if you there that pry with their Not that I ever recommend prying someone who really abuses their them, and it's only 40 bucks. even on the best of days, hope, parent company, because that's Next up, these next few aren't stout, but they are plenty from steel will this is the blade here, there's a couple of like the drop point in handles with a liner lock, or, molded handles with liner locks. priced at 40 bucks right now, splitting wedge as the SR1 retention thanks to the D2 steel the Ontario from before, we've instead of ball bearings, so it know, grittier, dirtier really does get them to flip This thing leans a little more of EDC stuff, the edge pointing You might not want to use it as where things like the Ontario The ergonomics of the handle things like wood carving as something you do, this could be one is, I think, a very still on sale, and that is the bit over 100 bucks. They're at discount compared to some of the opinion, for under $100 this is I would personally reach for you blade, nice, aggressive profile, height on the flat grind there daily stuff. But you've got full metal back spacer and a glass laid with G 10 handles right too big, not too small. It feels Well, same as the Censor washers almost buttery, flipping action available, and that comes with a that's your thing. I like the going to look at this is the not as chunky of a blade as the knife is the same sort of thing. You've got a very comfortable like the shape of this very a lot of things. This is a great something more nice or more Ontario or the SOG from before you've got really nice at this price range, you've got just great design, great so it's not a going to be would consider for everyday little more compact, this is not folder, that's not going to is better than the SR one at 70 indeed. Let's wrap things up deals, and then I've got a around the first. They're all Zwilling J A Henckels, to be series. This is a. 12 inch 10 inch or an eight inch chef's all of them are normally priced definitely going to be too much think I would necessarily want a kitchen. Use an eight or a 10 is me, but the fact that you can is nice. The build quality feels down to a price in the first knife experience, but the everything feels very, very well good competitor, I think, to the handled knives that are very variety of different not just coming from me, but knife. They're getting a little these is already undercutting right now, money, money, all day, every Well, half as much money if you though, the twin, the henkels checking out this block set normally is 400 bucks, and this it's half off. It's $200 off. of one right now. And it's got knives. I think everyone should santoku knife. But you know, knife right there. You have got a serrated knife. This is a one a little bit longer, but got that paring knife. Beyond knives. One of the things I with, and something that's under kitchen, is a set of shears. sharpening steel. You've got a santoku, but another prep knife knife, very good set. It's or the stuff you really want or good compromise. There good, overloading you with, like, want to spend 200 if you don't knife right now, normal price is now. Huge, huge discount, made forged chef knife. Hard to and it is nice and solid. Those you. But I do have one more on Saturdays, we do what we call answer questions from our question, feel free to leave it in our Most Serious question video, just to have a little of the day is, of course, our day, which today is from EDC and question, you only have a carve a terribly overcooked you using? PS, Happy it definitely depends on the real bad, we might need to bring here. But you said pocket definitely the CRKT ritual. It's scimitar like blade that's going quite nicely. And you know, any ritual built in, so it's even the job. Well, that's all we've know what you thought of the your hands on any of them, check description, which will take you addition to our newly added can split payments up on some like. Don't forget about our whether you're buying for time of year, you can at least a future purchase. I'm David C That's Thomas behind the camera. see you next time you