On the 2nd of May 1957, Frank Costello, head of had enjoyed a dinner with friends in an East Side restaurant. He took a cab to his on the fashionable Upper West As Costello entered the lobby, a large man stepped out of the shadows, raised his arm and said, This organized hit on a top of the most dangerous gangster in America, Vito Genovese. - Vito Genovese was never - Probably the most despicable gangster ever to run the streets of this city. But Genovese's rise would also be a major turning point in the history of the Mafia. And his actions would bring on the mob. Are you Mr. Genovese? Is it of the Mafia in this country? - It is not. Vito Genovese when he was 15 years old, and joined the thousands to hit the city shores at - Genovese grew up in From the beginning, he was involved in these Violence ruled and he never changed. - Genovese was a product of He was constantly in conflict. Everything had to be out That was Genovese. Police records show that over the next 10 years, Genovese was charged with running down and killing having a loaded revolver on the Lower East Side, and murdering another hoodlum. - Vito Genovese, I'll give you a great He fell in love with a woman named Anna, who was married to someone else. Genovese and his thugs so he could marry her. And he married her. Murder was He had no conscience. This appetite for By the mid 1920s, Genovese was a hitman for the greatest Mafia boss of them all, Charles &quot;Lucky&quot; Luciano. - Vito Genovese rose to and the guy who allowed him Lucky Luciano used Vito Genovese as his intimidator. - Luciano may have looked very cultivated, but he needed a hitman. And when he needed a hitman, one of the first people he By 1931, as Lucky Luciano's and was one of the key to kill rival boss, Giuseppe Masseria. Such was his reputation that the Great Vito. And in 1936, Genovese got the when Mafia boss Luciano was convicted on prostitution charges and sent to prison for 50 years. - When Lucky was convicted and sentenced to a long prison term, Vito considered himself But things didn't go to plan. Genovese now also found - Vito Genovese had been in the early 1930s, and somehow The victim had who had demanded too big a Now, an informer came forward and pointed the finger at Genovese as the man who had ordered the hit. Just as he was about to take Genovese was forced to flee to Italy to escape the murder charge With Genovese now out of the picture, Luciano sent word from his prison cell for Frank Costello to step in as boss. Just like Genovese, Frank He was four years old when with his parents in 1900. His father ran a grocery shop, and from an early age, Costello He loathed the way his for a life of poverty. Costello chose the streets and joined one of the In 1915, Costello was arrested and sentenced to a year in But this event changed him and would make him a very On his release, Costello not bullets, to get ahead. - The people that he worked almost by definition, and he understood that - He would never be a a muscle man type. He was the gentleman gangster. And he also latched onto And by the 1930s, Frank Costello was known to the underworld as King of the Slots. His illegal one-arm bandit machines were grossing $500,000 a day. - He made millions, it established him as somebody who was known as an earner, not a guy who goes out or violent crimes. With Genovese gone, Frank Costello was a very powerful man. He was now the head of the New York Mafia, the largest mob family in America, with more than 400 soldiers beneath him. Costello easily filled Luciano's shoes and continued to add billions of dollars to the family's fortunes. Far away in Italy, Genovese was It is said that when he fled he had $750,000 in his trunk. Genovese was going to need it. Benito Mussolini, the head of the National was fiercely against the Sicilian Mafia. But Genovese would soon discover - Genovese cottoned up to Benito Mussolini by providing money, providing donations to fascist buildings, and he even managed to pull off a hit for Mussolini in New York. There was a newspaper which had been a persistent He went to Don Vito Genovese, who got word to his killers in New York, and they murdered the editor. As a reward for Genovese's donations and services, Mussolini gave him an Italian knighthood. - But, of course, Mussolini and so he can never really relax. When World War II began, Genovese seized another opportunity. - And he was a pretty Turned out he worked both for When the Americans Mussolini was overthrown. So Genovese quickly switched sides and became an interpreter and advisor to the US military government. They thought What he was really doing, he was running a black He was stealing supplies from army bases by corrupting army officers and selling it on the But for all Genovese was still wanted and the New York police had A man called Peter claiming he had heard He was now held in protective custody as chief witness against Genovese. The American authorities in Naples in August 1944. Genovese was brought back to New York to face the murder charge, but he had no intention of taking the rap. On the 16th of January that he was suffering He was given painkillers by his guards. Two hours later, he was dead. The toxicologist who had examined his body reported that he had been to kill eight horses. With LaTempa out of the way, there was no case against Genovese. The judge told him, &quot;I cannot speak for if there was a shred of you would've been condemned to the chair. By devious means, you time and time again.&quot; Genovese was acquitted. Vito Genovese was back on the streets, but he was not the boss. The man in charge was still and he was thriving. - Frank Costello fashioned He fashioned himself as a businessman, sometimes bordering on aristocracy. He mixed with journalists, authors, judges, With his connections, Costello as the boss who could bridge the legitimate world and the mob. The Salvation Army even made Genovese could only as Costello became a real New York player. - Genovese was intimidated He knew that Costello could get with words what he could only get out of a gun, and he was jealous of that. Such was his power that before a judge could be appointed, it had to be cleared by Frank Costello. He didn't just know He bought them. - Potential Mayoral candidates went to see him hat in hand He was an absolute corrupter. - When the Mafia gets control of a political and judicial system, when they're deciding they're deciding how justice is meted out, then you're in danger. Frank Costello, even looked civilized, looked cultivated, was one of the most dangerous Costello became That title was They made Frank Costello the American Winston - That doesn't mean he was boss of bosses, there was no such position. But as a prime minister he was the first among equals, and sometimes a little Genovese but he realized that Costello He preferred to deal but ignored the little guys. - Frank Costello neglected the troops. Frank Costello only concerned And the capos is Italian for captain. - Members of crews that They had been neglected, that Genovese saw this to begin undermining - The soldiers, the knew that Vito Genovese was the real deal, whereas Costello was a person Vito Genovese never lost sight of the fact that he was a criminal, and Frank Costello lost Frank Costello started to his own myth. - Everybody knew that but he couldn't take the job. The other bosses wouldn't as long as Frank was riding high. Frank had the connections. Genovese did not have the connections. - So what he does is he begins that his rackets are So he has both money and he has soldiers, and he has hitmen, in case Now, Genovese was waiting and hoping Costello He wouldn't have to wait long. In 1950, an ambitious Democrat named Estes Kefauver, headed a committee to investigate organized crime in America. Kefauver called on more underworld figures, politicians, and policemen to testify before them. The country was transfixed as the hearings hit the - I remember the Kefauver investigations. I was a very young lad, and I remember actually watching those, and it was a real revelation. We began to see that there criminals, who were very well organized and very deliberate in their activities, and controlled a great deal of the criminal activity in this country. Many of the but not Frank Costello. He agreed to answer questions. - He thought he'd go on the witness stand and come out as a gentleman, And then he had this kind of that he wouldn't look like And Costello, billed as the most influential became the star attraction. But then, Costello made a miscalculation. He surprised everybody by insisting that his face and the Committee to respect his request. The any part of Mr. Costello. The only option was to film his hands. And the subsequent images became known as the hand ballet. Whenever the questions about got too tough or too near the knuckle, Costello would rub his palms grip a glass of water, drum or crumple and tear pieces of paper. And although the television cameras were not allowed to show Costello's face, the newsreel cameras had no such restrictions. - Frank Costello is and let you have a good look at him. As the photographer can you smile a little bit? Has this country come up to your anticipations? What have you ever done for - Well, I don't know what you Well, you're looking back over the years now, at that time when you became a citizen, I mean, now standing 20 you must have in your mind that you can speak of to your If so, what are they? - Paid my tax. - &quot;I pay my taxes.&quot; That was his answer. Now, in his mind, he He didn't think that he or the Marine Corps. I pay my taxes. Everybody pays their taxes. They're working for their country. But he was the original Ridiculed and humiliated, Costello finally refused to and produced a note from his doctor. A who examined Mr. Costello this morning. All right. - I'm in no condition to testify. Until when? - Until I'm well enough. All right, you refuse to testify further? - Absolutely. When I testify, I wanna and I can't if my mind don't function. Costello had by the exposure, and he left the Kefauver as the Justice Department's - Once he failed at Kefauver, He was indicted for tax He was indicted for lying to Congress. When you are the Prime Minister, the man who can work the miracles, and all of a sudden, and fall on your face, you are not Prime Minister anymore. - Frank Costello paid By him appearing in front of and it being televised, that was the beginning of In fact, that was the beginning It took many, many years and Frank Costello was the beginning of it because it brought the to what the mob was actually doing. But for one mobster, Costello's failure was good news. Vito Genovese. And he was going to make the most of it. - One of the things he does, he starts bumping off, The first on his list was one of Costello's top hitman, William &quot;Willie Moore&quot; Moretti. Moretti had grown up with and was now a feared New Jersey racketeer with his own army of 60 soldiers. He was also one of Costello's But his planned execution it was highly personal. Moretti had been promoted his second in command. This meant that Genovese to just the captain of his old crew. Genovese had chosen his target well. Moretti was suffering which was spreading to his brain. This had the worrying effect and it was now feared that he would start talking to the press. Genovese used this to his advantage. Because of Moretti's condition, he approached the Commission, the Mafia's Board of Directors, and asked for their permission The Commission was set up as a democratic system for dealing with all the mob's affairs. It operated by strict rules. No boss could be hit without And they gave it to him. The hit would take place on the morning of the 5th of October 1951, as ordinary New Yorkers Genovese had now made it that he was coming after him, and Costello was in no He was locked in continual over contempt of court and Over the next six years, When he came out on bail in March 1957, Genovese finally decided to strike. - Genovese, many, many times, tried to get the okay of the But the So Genovese decided to Genovese now studied Costello's routine. The 66-year-old Costello took cabs or walked to his various like he'd always done, without the aid of bodyguards It made him an easy target. - Other bosses had an army Costello said, &quot;If that's the first ones they'll bribe.&quot; - Genovese gave the who was a former prize fighter, who became Genovese's chauffeur. He was a real thug, tough guy. I mean, he'd kill you He was the mirror image of a Genovese. Genovese liked him for that. He was just a ruthless killer. On the evening Frank Costello enjoyed a in an East Side restaurant. After the meal, he took - Now, Costello lived in that overlooked Central Park. It was known as the Majestic Apartments. Costello was so sure of himself, even though he knew Genovese was around. And he came home one night, and he was met by Gigante. Gigante &quot;This is for you, Frank.&quot; Costello was covered with blood when he reached the Roosevelt Hospital, but the bullet had only shaved his skull. One of Genovese's top soldiers, that Gigante had wasted - There's some debate on whether Gigante missed him on purpose or he just missed him out of ineptness. I choose the latter. He just missed him. But there's a rule in the mark. If you try and you miss, The doorman of the Majestic identified Gigante as Costello's hitman. Gigante quickly gave himself up and was put on trial for attempted murder. This was a very dangerous If Costello confirmed it was Gigante, police would come after him. But at the trial, Costello observed the the code of silence, and told the jury that he Gigante was acquitted, and as he left the court, held out his hand and Genovese knew that Costello alive posed a grave threat to him, and he heard that he was secretly meeting with the Lord High Executioner Albert Anastasia. Guns, ice picks and strangling ropes were his stock-in-trade. - He was a tough, ruthless man, and not at all like Costello, If there had been a move against Costello, with Anastasia still alive, there would've been a Genovese The problem was getting to Anastasia. He lived in a New Jersey mansion, guarded by ferocious dogs and always traveled with bodyguards. Genovese needed somebody on the inside, and he approached Carlo Gambino, then an ambitious Anastasia lieutenant, and convinced him they with Anastasia dead. On the morning of October Albert Anastasia walked into a barber shop in Midtown Manhattan. His bodyguards parked the and then took a walk. Anastasia closed his eyes and relaxed into the barber's chair. Two men in suits, with scarves walked up behind him. Anastasia was literally Genovese now sprang into action. He immediately announced that And straight away, he Frank Costello. - Costello knew what it His reign was complete. That if he didn't surrender or abdicate, he was gonna be assassinated. Genovese stripped Costello of all his gambling assets and interests in Las Vegas, Florida, the He only allowed Costello to live on the one condition that he'd get out and never be involved - Costello sent a &quot;Don Vito, it's yours. You're in control.&quot; Genovese had done it. He was now the boss of the But he was also in deep trouble. Blinded by ruthless ambition, he had ordered two hits without the okay from the And he had done something else that some Commission Genovese had also moved - Genovese always thought that narcotics was a - Within the Luciano family, he was in charge of drug trafficking. But Congress tough new drug laws, and many Mafia bosses were - Drugs brought heat. And what I mean by heat is that if you dealt then you're facing a lot of time in jail and you're gonna roll or - Well, you could get up - They felt that if they they would be able to avoid that. The Mafia now feared that Genovese who didn't play by the rules, and his drug trafficking operations could bring the FBI down on them. To save his skin, Genovese requested a to explain his recent actions in New York. - The Commission was not supposed to call another National Convention, which will be held every five But Genovese insisted that the bosses from and the New York families had to assemble because of these important and he wanted it known that So they picked the same place they had met the previous year there'd been a National Convention in a small town in upstate It would prove of Genovese's life. On November the 14th, 1957, more than 60 senior Mafia bosses, with their advisors and bodyguards, traveled from Cuba, Italy, and from all over the United States to a hilltop estate in called Apalachin, 180 miles northwest of New York City and far from the prying eyes and surveillance of the city cops. Apalachin was the home of His guests would include all the most powerful like Joe Bonanno, Carmine Galante, Sam Giancana, and Joe Profaci. And at the head of the - Apalachin meeting was from all over the country. Keep in mind that the and as it was formed in 1931, was 100% controlled by the All the other cities were ancillary that answered to New York mobsters. But local detective Sergeant Edgar Croswell of had been watching the events. - The local police All these out-of-towners, dozens of cars were pulling into one Croswell's when he noticed that Barbara They'd also been tipped off that Barbara had ordered 20 pounds of veal cutlets, and 15 pounds of cold cuts that day. Croswell had been keeping as he knew he had mob connections. He called for backup. - Well, we get the call, &quot;Send as many people as We have a thing going on.&quot; Croswell ordered his troopers to surround the house. - We had a lot of people that they have thought was the underworld, and that we were to pick 'em up. And when there was blind panic. Some rushed to their cars. Others fled through the woods, ripping their silk suits against Croswell sent his troopers in after them. - We saw one fella, he was standing on the back but he wore a nice Homburg hat and he had a nice overcoat And we knew right away We went in and took control of him and put him in the troop car with us. Croswell and his men eventually managed to including New York Galante, and Gambino. - Everybody had the same excuse that they heard Barbara was sick and they all dropped in to - Here, you had this obvious convention of Italian or Sicilian American mobsters, and you couldn't dismiss it and the claim by all of them that they went to visit a sick friend. I mean, nobody could swallow that. The Justice Department believed that at least 50 escaped, including Chicago boss, Sam Giancana. Apalachin was the largest Mafia meeting ever rumbled by American police, and the mob would never Far from Genovese's triumphant moment announcing to the Commission his ascension to the head of the Luciano crime family, he had exposed them As a direct result of Apalachin, a federal grand jury guilty of conspiracy to commit perjury and to obstruct justice, and imposed sentences of Eventually, these were overturned by the United States Court of Appeals on the basis of insufficient evidence. But the damage had been done. Genovese had awakened the sleeping giant, the FBI. - This is the FBI. The Back out that door with your hands up. And it hit - I think the Apalachin the meeting of the bosses of America's organized really brought home to the the magnitude of this problem. Up to this point, the Director of the FBI, J. Edgar Hoover, had been reluctant to admit the existence of organized crime in America. He had even written, &quot;There was no such thing as And the claim that there was was baloney.&quot; - All of a sudden, everything that there was no national organization, that crime was essentially local and it was all for local law became obviously incorrect. - They were so brazen, they that they would actually have a meeting, much as any large legitimate to decide internal issues, if you will, of their organization, their direction, what they wanted to do, in the way a legitimate company would do. This really imprinted itself and certainly on the FBI. - That was it for the FBI. I mean, if there was a moment where it was absolutely patently clear that they had a role to do that they had not been All this The FBI were galvanized into action. Hoover immediately to confirm whether the It declared, &quot;The truth of the matter makes it impossible to deny logically the existence of a criminal which, for generations, has of Sicily, Italy, and the United States.&quot; - After the Apalachin meeting, the intelligence gathering became very much Most of the investigations were where we gathered information and the kinds of activities As a direct the Federal Bureau of Narcotics was instructed to target Vito Genovese in their fight against drugs. What about that you are the right man, that you're the number one man - Charge are fantastically ridiculous. That's what they are. And have in the narcotics racket? Have you not known anyone? On April the 17th, 1959, the man who had gotten away was finally nailed in a Don Vito Genovese was fined $20,000 and sentenced to 15 years in prison for masterminding an that smuggled heroin and - Never underestimate the menace that Vito Genovese left with It was he who was so instrumental, in bringing in the scourge of Without him, it might never have occurred. He opened up these opportunities that the Mafia would use into the inner cities of America, the biggest cities, New York, Chicago. For the first time, of a narcotics contagion And one person who has to bear is Don Vito Genovese. Vito Genovese continued to rule his organization unchallenged from his prison cell. He died there on February the His legacy is that he left behind the most powerful Mafia that bears his name to this day. The Vito Genovese family continues to make millions But he left another more Genovese had exposed the Mafia to the FBI. The Apalachin disaster would signal the beginning on organized crime in America.