The Earth is ancient. Billions of years so vast that it's difficult for us to geological scars, imparted by the eons of story of our world. We can't travel back reconstruct what happened. But what about the future? How will the world change? What will happen to this cradle of life story end? Our ability to predict the future falls it a technological revolution, a stock civilization. We have to accept that the ultimately, in our own hands. But the of years the Earth is governed by chemistry, orbital mechanics, and understand and things we can even make join us for a voyage through time the bitter end. To facilitate this journey, let's imagine travel through time - from Earth's genesis essentially be a chrononaut witnessing have about 12 billion years of history contextualise this vast ocean of time is month. So the history of Earth spans January 1st and dying on December calendar then represents 33 million Bracing for your voyage, you step into and soon blinding lights fill your the blink of an eye we wake up at the Stepping out, it looks like you're on an This is the proto-Earth, 4.53 billion having only recently formed, and it's come hailing down to the proto Earth's growing mass. You Your left shows that just three minutes right shows that tens of thousands of Looking back up, you see a dark sky flickering Sun barely perceptible atmosphere at this time is hydrogen and Sun has also recently formed. accumulates more mass, yet actually gravity increases, it compresses the rock to see that it's just gone 7 a.m. million years. Up to now, the composition homogeneous - rock mixed with metals - but around this time something changes. The compression of the embryonic globe has caused it to heat up. Not only this, but much of the accreted material is planet up further. The surface and and deep ocean of magma. Within this nickel, sink under gravity to the very core. As they move down, they rub against The planet warms further, melting more A runaway heating effect takes place You have just borne witness to the &quot;iron hypothesized about. Looking up at the sky, first time, as this newly forged iron around the planet - harmful radiation. As the day comes to an peace, after millions of years of hemorrhaging, and tortured resculpting. is not yet complete. It's about to face One that will reshape the planet forever. On the second day, you look up at the sky besides the Sun bob into view sometimes, receding away - a harbinger of doom. You Mars-sized world that's also recently body has become gravitationally trapped too big, too unstable, to stay there being the proto-Earth but Venus and the other menacingly - getting ever closer. It's at consumed by Theia, as it begins its final Because of its smaller size, this is a win. Yet it promises to cause as much sacrificial act. Worlds collide - vaporizing much of their and tearing off the Earth's newly formed so powerful is this collision that it light-years away. Despite Theia's its existence. Deformed, unrecognizable, planet's material now orbits around it punishing the Earth once again, but much rings, then clumps, then moonlets. As the first Moon-rise. It's like nothing times bigger than you're used to, being Earth has become a parent, as its mother like a newborn fawn. Finally, the forward into her future. It's day five. Over the last couple of Each one has brought with it a supply of molecule. There is now so much water, the planet. The site of a cooler Earth For the first time, you see you know and love. It's spartan, desolate, time, it looks like the Earth. What surely start at any moment and that you January 14th. It's been nine clock, but 300 million years have passed has been surreal. The Earth has a special Wandering the surface, you find oceans, site for life's first moment. Organic Acetone, amides, nitriles, carbonyls and even amino acids. Today you explore a collection of hot springs up against the part of Western Australia. It's here that elevated ratio of carbon-12 to its You remember that life prefers to take lower energy cost of working with life might be active here. You find the It's loaded with organic molecules, your scanner, you detect proteins, protocells. It's delicate, primitive, but pool is really the first instance of looking at is surely nascent. You pause upon what is essentially the origins of Clinging to his newfound existence, conditions - these tiny cells will one day As the days and weeks pass by for you, Life has percolated now across the limited to simple microbial forms, called stromatolites betray life's almost a third less luminous than the one is rich in heat-trapping carbon dioxide, As the ambient supply of sugars each day, life begins to adapt. On signs of photosynthesis within some carbon dioxide and water molecules and producing oxygen as a waste product. noticeable, but these photosynthetic life ever more abundant. Beginning March 6th, now creeping above 1%, 2%, 3%... But life on Earth is not adapted to an oxygen-rich atmosphere. This highly reactive molecule You watch in despair as mass extinctions half of everything that lives. In this evolve. Sophisticated cells with difficult for other cells to attack, and later, on March 30th, you find the first to form the first multicellular organisms begin to specialize to complex life to develop. It's on April like jellyfish and sponges. Up to now the land untouched, but on May 1st, Earth an explosion of life evolves in a directions, taking over the land and your journey for four months but four staggering to think about the fact that Earth during this time is spectacular - a diverse than imagined. So many bizarre through trial and error life adapts, and complex forms. It's just over a week dinosaurs evolve during the Triassic Earth is a childhood fantasy. Creatures Triceratops, and of course the Each one simultaneously terrifying and giants, but just five days later an across enters the atmosphere. The impact dust into the atmosphere that blots out the world. You mournfully watch as the era of the dinosaurs abruptly ends, marking the Paleogene periods. start to fill the ecological niche left your watch as history fulfills itself. In date that you left the Earth. Thus far, familiar events inferred from the about to move into the future. You watch growing in size and complexity - great you're about to see her own fate, the modern humans emerge. Just thirteen erecting buildings as you pass the minute after that point, twenty thousand is gone. The tape played so fast you move to another planet? Did we switch to extinguish ourselves? In a flash, our disintegrate into dust, blowing off into Civilization doesn't rise again for us, will not sustain these ideal conditions thought, self-awareness and reflection. from this point on. May 20th. It's been three days since time the continents have converged into depressed, watching the eons flick by, When you first arrived, the Earth's keeping the planet warm the past four and a half billion years, core gradually contracts. It's now 30% ever greater heat. As the insolation upon up, precipitation increases. As these droplets soak up molecules of carbon human lifetimes it. The rain dissolving away the rocks reacts with the silicon materials in the to the ocean beds. The warmer the Sun occurs, pulling out ever greater amounts faster than volcanism or life's is becoming starved of carbon dioxide. dioxide and temperature in a constant more or less the same temperature operating on the timescale of hundreds heat-trapping gas, its decreasing levels a warming Sun. But carbon dioxide and By May 27th, carbon dioxide levels have productivity of the planet is one half Carbon dioxide is the fuel of chain dwindles. It's ironic - the very remove from the Earth's atmosphere is desperately lacks. Over the next couple rapidly change. Forests become less planet becomes less green with each drops to dangerous levels, below 150 extinction of all organisms that rely on ago, life evolved a more sophisticated CO2 levels as low as 10 parts per plants and microbes fill the ecological ultimately, this just delays the and so the CO2 just keep tumbling. How It's on June 13th that you get your at the year is 900 million AD. It's now ppm - a critical value and the point where C4 plants like millet, maize and by photosynthetic microbes. The surface 3 million years, or just over 2 hours by you are now forced to bear witness to photosynthesis, oxygen levels rapidly herbivores are the first to perish, their go next with their relatively high small mammals die in their burrows, birds dead fish fill the oceans. By the end invertebrates like the insects are gone. reign of multicellular life is over. You two and a half billion years they roamed lifetime. But now you look out at an to his earlier microbial era. It's still from the one that you once knew. With the carbon dioxide depleted, Earth's temperature - the planet begins to Not only does the temperature rise but as water evaporates away. The remaining finds some solace in the polar regions temperatures remain coo. Life might be in the earliest days on Earth, but this unlike those primitive simple life forms, of five billion years of evolution - selection honing their genomes. In high-temperature and saline environments Earth warms. Watching this play out gives cells stare down the Earth's warming torch of life going. Towards the end of future, the Earth's daughter - the Moon - has gradually receded away so far that its gravitation no longer acts to stabilize planet to axially precess, leading to the Earth becomes uninhabitable, even to is left is forced to hide away from the refuge in cold trap caves formed by Earth's core, which has been gradually leading to a total collapse of the the global mean temperature is over 100 evaporate. The water content of the rises tipping the Earth into a &quot;moist water is split by the Sun's ultraviolet and oxygen atoms. As the oxygen sinks into space. Through this process of rapidly lose its water content, much like eons ago, By the end of July, 2.5 billion a dry barren world. This is the end for The future from here is sterile, plate weather away. The world looks alien, more continues to grow ever more luminous scorching the Earth's inanimate surface. helium, it contracts raising the internal largely driven the changes you've thus far. But, by October 30th, five and a core is now so hot that the surrounding to now finally leave the so called As this shell of hydrogen burns around into the surrounding envelope, causing expansion is gradual, but it heralds the It's December 31st - the Earth's last day. enter its giant phase, an episode of evening breaks, you watch the Sun grow color, reaching beautiful deep orange the planet Mercury has been swallowed by yet satisfied as it continues to swell. is engulfed. The Sun is terrifyingly, nearly one half of your sky. With each perhaps there is some hope, for as the of its mass causing the Earth's orbit to cat and mouse, you wonder if this Maybe the Earth will be spared closes in to its prize, in that final through the stellar chromosphere Sun, not away. that it's over. Here, at the end of all the Earth finally rests, returning to its maker. In Earth's 12 billion year old story, age, and multicellular life makes up just Well, we may be just the blink of an eye. special, but so too is *when*. For we live conditions, stabilized obliquity, active era where not just multi-cellular life is even civilizations. Ultimately the fate choose to accelerate our demise, or, we each other. The candle doesn't have to go new stars, new worlds are forming right potential to those who dare, and so, where Feynman: &quot;The truth is so remarkable, so amazing. That's a much more exciting story to many people than the tales which other people Universe, that we were living on the back were wonderful stories, but the truth is