Welcome to my channel. When the last Phalaenopsis orchids are about to fall. This is the right time to cut branches to propagate phalaenopsis orchids from flower stems. This is where dormant sprouts should be kept for propagation. And this place is already blooming so let's cut it. And here is a potato. Potatoes contain many substances necessary for the growth of orchids. I will recycle potato peels into organic fertilizer. Pour 1 liter of hot water into the jar. then brew until the water cools. Need to peel off the protective film of the sleeping sprout. This will help the sprouts grow faster. Apply potato gel to the sleeping sprouts. This helps stimulate sprout growth. Next, apply toothpaste on the cut. Helps cuts heal faster. Wrap with thinly sleced potatoes. This helps moisturize and awaken dormant sprouts. Leave for 6 hours to let the nutrients from the potatoes penetrate inside. Take 1 teaspoon of cinnamon powder. Add 1 liter of hot water. After the water cools, filter to remove sediment. Soak terracotta beads and aquaponic resin beads in cinnamon water solution for 30 minutes. Soak the moss in the cinnamon solution for 30 minutes. Recycle used boxes into orchid sprouting tools. Conduct orchid nursery. Spray moisturizer every 3 days. Place in a cool place. When cool, filter to remove residue. Watering this liquid fertilizer for orchids 1-2 times/month will be very good. 3 WEEKS LATER. The sleeping sprouts have awakened. Continue spraying water and leave in a cool place for the sprouts to grow. AFTER NEXT 1 MONTH. The sprout has grown leaves. Continue spraying water and leave in a cool place for the sprouts to grow. AFTER THE NEXT 2 MONTH. Small orchids grow very quickly. With this simple way you can propagate orchids at home easily. Hope the video will help you a lot. Now I will plant it in a pot so the orchid can grow in the outside environment. If you find the video meaningful, please Like and Share. And subscribe to my support channel so my channel can soon reach 1 million subscriptions. Wishing you success and happiness in life. Don't rush to leave the video because in the next part I will share how to propagate with another type of orchid. Welcome to this video! This is a dendrobium orchid. a type of orchid that is said to be beautiful and has a gentle fragrance. In this video I share an easy way to propagate the most beautiful orchids in the world? If you haven't subscribed to the channel yet, please subscribe so you don't miss any tips on your channel. And share so as many people know. Let's start I cut this old orchid for propagation. Cut again so the cut is flat and will not rot further Applying cinnamon powder to the cut helps the wound heal quickly and not rot. Then wait a day for the cutting to dry completely before planting the orchid. 1 Day Later Take 1 aloe vera leaf and cut it into thin slices Aloe vera gel is very good at restoring wilted orchids and reviving baby orchids. Then take 2 cloves of garlic and cut them into thin slices. Garlic has antibacterial and antiseptic properties that help protect orchids from rotting. Put garlic and aloe vera in the jar and add 500ml of water The cut is completely dry Soaking in this water for 30 minutes helps stimulate germination and rooting. Recycle used plastic bottles as orchid nursery tools. Then put the dry orchid branches into this plastic bottle. Place the bottle here and insert moss around it to help retain moisture. Water regularly to keep the environment moist. This helps the orchid germinate faster. Then put it in a cool place and wait for the orchid to revive. 45 Days Later With this method, after only 45 days, old withered orchid branches have been revived. Now I cut them out to plant in pots. I plant with pine bark soaked in antiseptic to prevent the tree from rotting. Adding a little moss helps retain moisture and protect the roots better. Then you water it to keep it moist and take care of it like other normal orchids. Thank you for watching the video! Wishing you luck and happiness in life!