China and Russia boast of a "strategic partnership China is quietly positioning itself to take what this shaky alliance, hoping for more support weaken Russia and reclaim the vast, resource-rich dwindling and its economy battered by war, with its untapped resources and strategic value, about economic advantage--it's about fulfilling the Great Rejuvenation. How far will China go? the Great Rejuvenation truly means--and why Siberia is a revanchist leader. China's period of weakness much as the fall of the Soviet Union haunts Putin. territory during that time, and that includes happen? Russia expanded eastward starting in the in the medieval period still haunted it and it an occurrence from happening again. As it went which held land in Siberia, including modern expanding Russian presence toward the Amur River called Albazino in 1686 and 1687. The Qing won of Nerchinsk. This agreement guaranteed the lands Russia's expansion in the Far East. However, into Russian and Manchu separately, resulting treaty nevertheless held until the late 1850s. By had weakened considerably. In 1858, the Russian It reversed Nerchinsk and gave Russia all the the Convention of Peking, Russia added the rest of including Vladivostok, cutting China off from and Xi in particular, have often spoken against late Qing weakness. It has used these unequal expansive territorial claims, most notably but was forced to surrender it to Japan in 1895 It was returned to the Republic of China the People's Republic has never ruled it. Taiwan's in a recent interview. He said that China's of "territorial integrity." If that were the case, of the Treaty of Aigun with Russia. After all, Taiwan would essentially be the same as raising China has demonstrated a willingness to use ends. It can feel more confident about bullying more subtle. China has in fact raised the issue It and the Soviet Union had a conflict over and only came back to negotiations in 1991. These China and Russia began to improve their relations world's so-called hyperpower. China and Russia world order, but to cooperate on this, they needed Beijing and Moscow, a 2008 agreement was supposed the two countries. There was some minor tinkering, know them did not substantially change. That on the surface, but many Chinese citizens of the lost lands. This was seen most notably in the founding of Vladivostok. Chinese social remembering the history that the Russian embassy its peoples revanchist concerns about the Russian China's mapmakers have subtly raised the Natural Resources in Beijing released a map that Chinese name. Other locales in the contemporary names, too. Officially, such maps must "accurately the disputed islands in the South China Sea are message was simple - these lands were Chinese and a map, the regaining of these lost lands would be like Xi Jinping. China's salami slicing strategy the publication of the new map came at the time dependent on the senior player in the strategic would cast covetous eyes on its former territory. This resource scarcity has been exacerbated by as simple as water is proving a problem for the dwindling volume in rivers like the Yangtze, and China must import much of what it needs, and choke points that the United States Navy and is rich with the natural resources it needs. there that have not yet been exploited. China the world's arable land to feed its enormous been degraded due to poor management. The Russian inviting. But it's not just land. The lands in the many other enticements. There are precious metals zinc and iron ore, timber, hydrocarbons, and other the US military's reach. China has tapped these not always to the extent they would have wanted. water in Lake Baikal, which holds about 20% of the hoped to create a bottling plant to take some of accused the Chinese of wanting to ship the water Russian court later halted the project. Two years pipeline from Lake Baikal to the city of Lanzhou never got off the ground. The controversy around about a potential conflict over these far eastern increasing Chinese presence in the area. Neither part because of this distrust. However, China has resources - its demography. Russia's population million to about 135 million by 2050, but this region has always been sparsely populated and the as inhabitants moved west to Russia's European there may be only about five million Russian Across the river, there are 120 million Chinese. of hordes of Chinese moving in and acquiring migration. These fears are partially related to view their Chinese counterparts with suspicion. the fears of a Chinese demographic takeover of the there were about 70,000 Chinese nationals actually declined from the high of about 200,000 important presence in the Russian Far Eastern Russian landowners have already widely-leased hectares have been rented out on 50-year leases. then sent southward. The Chinese nationals that welcome way for them to compensate for the also often work in the timber industry and other it is a welcome departure compared to the lack of Moscow is aware of the native suspicion. It has immigration of Chinese nationals into the Russian One of the new requirements is that these foreign test before legally obtaining a temporary visa. with a wink and a nod from the local authorities. are the only convenient source to do the work that either leaving for the west or being unwilling have no other choice. For Russia, mitigating way for it to not become dependent on Chinese to benefit the inhabitants of the Far East with was created in 2011 with high hopes, but it has such as a bridge connecting Vladivostok to Russky largest suspension bridge in the world. It is problem, though. It's a bridge to nowhere and locals. Why was such a money pit allowed to is mainly based around enriching the people in it, many of the funds allocated for regional just line the pockets of the people that run the Far East is more of a feature than a bug? Russia's imperial expansion. The road connects Vladivostok each other. It was a method designed to keep the changed. During Soviet times, there were various but those programs have dried up, and without that many people have chosen to leave. Local maintain their own roads to get to their places particularly in the timber industry, decreasing their competitiveness. In contrast, region across the border, alleviating much its connectivity. Some of this connectivity China's phone network goes north of the Amur between China and the Russian Far East, with line that goes all the way to Beijing. This line awaits extension in the region nevertheless. China markets. Because of the sanctions, Russian interest rates of over 25%. Chinese financiers Naturally, Russian businesses are more attracted forum for Russian businesses in Siberia seeking a city of about 643,000 people located 30 miles come up there, inspect Russian enterprises, and these Chinese workers in the Russian Far East are that temporary status will continue forever. and labor issues among its people in the region. more apartment units in the Russian Far East in for work on a more permanent basis. Because of the China, more Chinese students have begun studying universities. A new elite is forming based on the the Chinese economy and the Russian Far East. And In the Jewish Autonomous Region of the Russian and staffed exclusively by Chinese nationals almost as a self-governing entity. There is The mine awaits connection with the Chinese rail when the first bridge connecting the Russian and continuing costs of the war in Ukraine mean that to China will get weaker. That means China will be Russia, and we have already seen a major example. Vladivostok as a transit point for its domestic Russia. Russia had hoped to attract Japanese and Vladivostok, but the war made such partnerships China for Vladivostok's economic prospects. The users. It was the first time China had access could no longer exclude the Chinese. Is this a creating a systematic policy of intrusion in the taking Taiwan and breaking the containment of Beijing's foreign policy priorities. The Taiwan but an attempt to secure the country's still reported to be personally close with Putin, in strengthening the strategic partnership. The efforts to claim the lost territories will not increasing economic presence there. There is no though. Xi might intend on remaining China's de be out of power. A future Chinese leader might be issues from the Qing Dynasty come up then? Apart China's other priority has been the recreation its central place in the world's trade balance. Europeans discovered the Americas and started power flowed westward as a result. China has aimed Road Initiative has run into many problems. Aside that there are simply too many players along territories it must traverse cannot be kept safe route between the Russian Far East and Europe, of the Belt and Road projects along the most used threaten the broader Chinese economy, China will territories in the present Russian Far East could to China in Vladivostok might be the first of reincorporation of this lost territory. Chinese nationals, and the region's dependence on have a growing influence in the territories that maybe after Xi is out of power, China asserts the from prejudicial treatment by some of the local Russia cut itself off from the West. For Putin, front with China against the West, but when one weaker, and when you have something that a former when you try to make that enemy a friend. What do look like? Will Russia have challenges holding on much larger Chinese population that appears its vast resources have to offer it? Don't forget hit the like button and subscribe for more go check out Why RUSSIA And CHINA Will Be At War