Welcome to this advanced English Master class. Today I'm sharing my best English And how do I know they're the best? Because they're the ones that you have watched the most, that you have liked and So they're the best because you say so. Welcome back to JForrest English. Of course. I'm Jennifer. Now let's get started. First, we're going to review a news article. And in this news article, you're going advanced grammar and even Let's get started. Welcome to our article. Today we're talking about U.S., President Ottawa is where I live, which And I'm sure you recognize this man. He's the Prime Minister of Canada, Justin Trudeau. So let me read this headline again. U.S. President Joe Biden touches down in Ottawa. First, let's talk about And notice we have an S on it Joe Biden which represents the subject he U.S. President Joe Biden. He touches down in Ottawa now to touchdown. This means to land and we use it I could say my plane just touched To be honest, I would say that landed is more So if you're already comfortable with My plane just landed. I say keep using it, but at least now OK, let's continue on and U.S. President Joe Biden arrived Thursday evening Now first I want to point out that the capital city of Canada is Ottawa. It is not Toronto. I think probably 90% of people think That's just not true. Ottawa is the capital city, which is where all and which is why President Joe Biden Toronto is Canada's largest city. OK, so make sure you know that the next of Canada arrives Thursday evening in OK, what is a whirlwind? Whirlwind pronunciation Whirlwind. A whirlwind. Now this is being used as an adjective, and we a vacation, a conference as a whirlwind vacation, A whirlwind visit is simply a visit where many, So very active, many different activities. So he's going to go to a lot of different And that's why you could describe your vacation I had a whirlwind summer. It implies that you did You saw many, many different people. So I would say busy, eventful, That's how I would describe it. And this is an adjective, so it's an adjective. So as an adjective, you would put expected to focus on both the friendly and OK, so friendly. You know what that means. What about thorny? Well, thorn is something very So that's kind of what you want to imagine. Those aspects of the relationship So in this case, I would just say the positive aspects and then the thorny are the negative these two countries probably don't share They probably have some debates So that would be, I would just So you could describe your relationship. I have a thorny relationship so you're saying, you know it's negative. There are things that hurt each OK, thorny aspects of the Canada US relationship. I don't know what those aspects are, I guess right here, including protectionism So I'm not sure if these are the They don't really specify. Now, actually, before we move on, I of Canada because I actually hear a lot of So a lot of students will put the stress on the So it's Canada. It's not Canada. Canada. Sometimes I hear that word, Canada. No, Canada. Canada. OK, that's how you say it. Like an American. Like a Canadian, Canada. So this, duh, is quite short. Canada. Canada. So now you know the capital of Canada, the largest All of these notes are available in description or the comment section All right, let's continue on. Is quite a packed schedule. So a packed schedule. This is just. Another way of saying busy, busy. Now you could also think of it as The event was packed, and in So there were many, many people in the It was crowded, but because we're talking Now, honestly, you could use and probably say it's quite a whirlwind schedule. Because what is a busy schedule see lots of people, meet with lots of people. Well, that's also kind of the So you could use our other adjective, And then know that pact can So in terms of busy, you could my weekend was packed, which means it was busy. Now sometimes we actually I like saying this, we add Oh, my weekend was action-packed. You don't have to say that. You can simply say packed, action-packed or packed. All right, It was quite a packed said White House National That's a long title. John Kirby on Wednesday. This is a meaningful visit. Canada is one of the United States closest allies. Notice they have this apostrophe. This is to show possession. the United States closest allies and friends. So the allies belongs to the United States. The friends belong to the United States. So that's why Now generally with possession, So that is when I'm talking So my one friend. Singular. Now this S is not plural, it's to show possession, OK, now I could say that's my friend's because That's my friend's. What could be a multiple That's my friend's dog. OK, let's say I have two friends and they So the dog belongs to my friend's two friends. Plural. But I just put the apostrophe an S so I don't need to put another So you don't need to put another S if it This is also to show possession. OK, Canada is one of the United States and has been now for more than 150 years. Why is it 150 years? Because that's how long Canada has been a country. It's been 150, two or three years. That's why they say more than This will be the. First, true, in person bilateral meeting. A bilateral meeting is a So it's just another way of of saying to because it's already implied, because it's Anyway, you could say I'm having a bilateral meeting is between you and your boss Now let's say it's actually my boss's friend. I can't think of anything But notice this is possessive because Boss already ends an S so I don't were the other way around my friend's boss. I put's because it does not end in South I have a bilateral meeting with my friend's boss. OK, let me highlight that for you. Between the two leaders in Canada since 2009, so we'll be the first true Now adding in person because obviously in the last few years a lot of meetings So it suggests that it's possible It's possible now. Notice we have since since plus a specific since March 5th and we use four with a Now in this context 4 doesn't work. You wouldn't replace, it will be the It doesn't make any sense, so But I'm just letting you know that there for in other cases because I In this case we need to use since and we're. We have to have a specific time because OK, the first year of Biden's term. So here's another possessive. The term belongs to Biden. The first year of Biden's term relations following Trump's All right, let's take a look at this. Focused on rebuilding, rebuilding. So notice a couple things. One, it's in the jaron form. My verb is in the ING jaron form Here on is a preposition, and when we in this case rebuilding, needs to So that's our jaron. So I'll just write that out for you. Preposition. Plus, Jaron, now we have a RE in front So we're building it again, you might say. Jennifer, this lesson was I need to watch it again. Why? Well, because you need to practice everything. I'm teaching you in this lesson, right? I need to rewatch this lesson at least three teaching you in this lesson because So this means watch again and notice for pronunciation re E I'm not Ruh ruh ruh. Watch American pronunciation. We love our unstressed schwa sound in This is a full E re rewatch, rewatch. Watch it again. So hopefully you. Rewatch this lesson. Let me know if you're going to rewatch it. OK, let's talk about this Divisive, divisive. Visive, visive, divisive. Trump's divisive term in office, Division, which also comes from the word divided. When people are divided, when there's it means some people think this And divisive is the adjective As an example, I could say It causes some people to be here It causes division. It divides people. So it's implying that Trump United States and Canada, or Let's continue on the 2nd The second, Remember, here we are talking Now we're talking about the second, the 2nd focused on meeting obligations. So again, on is our preposition. So we have our gerund here meeting obligations, through regular pathways, Kirby said, now heading Heading into, we use the word head So you could say going into the this case you might want to think of it as And enter, there's movement as well. I'm going into the store. I'm entering the store now. We do use head a lot. You could say I'm heading to the store. When do you head to the airport? And in this case it means go. I'm going to the store. When do you go to the airport? It's extremely common. It sounds very natural. Americans, we love seeing So you can start with these two more to your vocabulary once Now heading into the third, this visit where we are, what we need OK? When you take stock of something, you So you might say we need to So you need to think about your then perhaps the recent past of it and So the current situation including So let me just write that out for you. Let's take stock or we need to. We need to take stock of our financial situation. As I said, I think the best When you assess something, you So assess, think about the current situation, and in this case, it's the current A little bit confusing. They're using situation twice. So this visit is about taking stock of what where we are and what we need So far, neither the White House have confirmed if there will be any All right, let's take a look at neither nor. I did create a separate video on neither nor So I'll put the link to that video in the comment, but just know that neither So it's saying not the White So it's negative for the White House and That's what I'll say now, just because I So I will just say link to lesson in It's a great video and I OK, so you can watch that when you have time. It's a pretty short video as well. Just trying to get this. Let me just put this on a separate line for you. Neither Oopsie neither nor oh OK, got it. So far, neither the White House nor the Prime Minister's Office have confirmed if What was an impromptu stop? It's an unplanned stop, unplanned. It seems like it would be obvious For example, if you and I were going on a place, including cafes, restaurants, stores in If we felt like going to a Obviously that's not how For security reasons. Everything has to be very planned So that's why an impromptu stop is unlikely. But it did happen when Barack Obama, Ottawa many years ago, and that's I'll continue reading this so it hasn't been unplanned, impromptu stops during the trip. Meaning we'll have to wait and see whether If you come to Ottawa as a tourist, It's very popular for tourists and it's where I live, The capital, remember, in 2009. And he had an impromptu stop, an unplanned stop, So he went to our tourist area, That's just an area of the city in our historic And he went to a bakery and he Remember, this happened in 2009. Today, if you go into that bakery, Like this picture is from the What I'm pointing out with my mouse is a Barack Obamas trip in Canada from 2009. It's pretty funny because even now, it's a big tourist attraction in So if Biden makes an impromptu stop, maybe we'll have a Biden cookie in OK, we'll have to wait and see if there'll President Barack Obama popped into a bakery I like this phrasal verb to pop into. When you pop into a store, a cafe, a bakery. In Obama's case, it means you just enter quickly. So you just go in, you get So most likely you're not going to stay You're just going to get something and leave. So if you're with your husband or wife or pop into this store I need to buy And then OK. Now when you say pop into your wife, they understand So even if you're on a schedule, they know So if someone asks you like, oh, did you You might say we popped in, we popped in, So this is the same as saying visited quickly. We popped in, we just took a few pictures, looked We just popped in. So we use this a lot when you're going to stores. Or you might go pop into a friend's house, which means you visit that friend So my friend popped in on over the weekend. Just sometime over the weekend. Oh, my friend popped in over the That's what it implies. And that's the end of the article. So now I'll read the article from start to U.S. President Joe Biden touches down in Ottawa U.S. President Joe Biden arrived Thursday hour visit expected to focus on both the US relationship, including protectionism It's quite a packed schedule for a short trip, said White House National Security This is a meaningful visit. Canada is one of the United friends and has been now for more than 150 years. This will be the first true in person leaders in Canada since 2009, the first year US relations. Following Trump's divisive term in office, including prioritizing orderly and safe Now heading into the third, this visit where we are, and what we need So far, neither the White House nor the if there will be any impromptu stops during whether there will be another Obama cookie popped into a bakery in the Byron Amazing job. Now let's move on and review another news article. And this article is on a complete And you're going to learn So let's get started. Welcome to our article. You probably recognize these two Let me read the headline of our article. Will Smith says bottled rage led him So this is very important So slap this is slap. It's a verb to slap. It's very commonly associated with violence. So in a negative way, however, you could for example, so you can use it in other contexts, but more commonly used in violence, OK, let me explain this, because Bottled rage. Bottled rage. So rage, of course, is an emotion. It means to be very, very, very, very angry. OK, that's rage. Now what does bottled rage mean? Bottled. Imagine here we have a bottle, right? And the water is in the bottle So if you have a bottled emotion, generally a negative emotion, it means that just like the water can't get out of this bottle. So it's when you have an emotion and you do So if you keep anger, rage, eventually it can come out and you might Let's continue on. Will Smith has said his bottled rage Here's our comedian Chris Rock The actor has been interviewed for which he described as a horrific night. Horrific. This is. A great adjective. A lot of times students will Good bad, because it's the ones they know. But adding more advanced adjectives advanced and will give you more A horrific night. So this is a. Very, very, very bad night. That's how you can think of So if somebody asks you how was your day, you could say I had a horrific Or you can describe an event that was When I saw Will Smith slap So you can say I had, I had a horrific day. All right, let's move on. Appearing on The Daily Show with Trevor Noah he You know now our he is Will Smith. So just remember that through the story, I was going through, so I Will Smith. I was going through something that what happened that night when he slapped I was going through something This is an expression, and we used to say to And we use this more as a general expression So if somebody asks you You can just say I'm going through a lot And that's just general, but it lets the person Now they might follow up and say, well, what? Tell me more and then you can say I lost my So you can list the difficult things in your life. So we use this as a general statement. What's wrong? I'm going through a lot right now. I'm going through a lot right now. Now, notice it's our verb to be Our verb is go. So that's the verb you're going to conjugate. Now here it's in the past continuous. That's why we have I was going, I was going, I'm going because you're experiencing Not that that justifies my behavior at all. So Will Smith is saying the fact he that's not an excuse. If something justifies something, it's an excuse. It says it's OK that I slapped him but he's saying that doesn't justify it. That's not an excuse. So you can think of this they're using it in the negative, an excuse. Not that that justifies my behavior. It's not an excuse. Smith added. That there were many nuances and Lost it. I. Lost it. Now notice here, I lost it. What do you think that it is? I lost it. What? What did he lose? His keys? His wallet? No. When we use this in a general sense, I lost it. And I know what the context of the story is. He slapped someone. I know that. It means his sense of control over I lost it. So we use this in a sense. I lost it yesterday in the meeting. So maybe you were in this meeting and your Co worker said she couldn't finish What do you mean you couldn't finish the project? That's unacceptable. And you get really, really angry. You lose control of your emotions, your actions. You get taken over by the emotion. Maybe the Bottled, the bottled emotion. Your bottled anger, your bottled rage. So I lost it. This is an expression. Hopefully you don't have to. Use it too often. Because it's not a positive This means to lose control over your Because you might just start yelling at your You feel really bad after, but in that You lost control. Smith stormed the stage at the Hollywood Awards ceremony after Rock made a joke Woo, that's kind of a tongue twister. She has the hair loss condition alopecia. Now notice how in the article because it's not a very common condition. They explain it's a hair loss condition and men unfortunately lose their hair and we call This describes a man with no head But we don't usually associate that with women. So there's a condition when women lose their hair. It's called alopecia. Now I want to point out these's s in the. In this case the's is used to So Smith's wife, the wife And then they're saying her name Jada. That's his wife's name, Jada now. But the shaved head belongs to Jada. So that's why there's an's The And shaved head is when you would go like That would be a shaved head, I believe. It looks like his head is shaved here. So he would go like this. And then the hair is very close to his. His scalp? That's a shaved head, now very common And the comedian Chris Rock, He made a So shaved head. We talked about what this is, Shaved I understand how shocking that Noah is the TV show host. Remember, he went Will Smith went on The So Will Smith is saying this I understand how shocking that was for people. So shocking. This is a great adjective. Just look at my face right now. That is shocking. What? So when you receive news and You lost your job? What? Shocking is generally used in a negative context You just got engaged. That's amazing. But But that's more surprise, which is can be a When we describe something as shocking, So when Will Smith slapped the They would have gone shocking. How shocking that was. I was gone. That was a rage that had been So again, that emotion, it's inside You're not expressing your emotion. So because we've seen this for a few Generally, we say you Sometimes we add the optional preposition You shouldn't bottle up your emotions, which means you shouldn't keep your emotions So to express your emotion is hey, you hurt my feelings today instead of just keeping it inside of you and He said he also understood the pain he had caused and recalled the reaction of his So Will Smith's 9 year old nephew his uncle slap someone and the reaction That could be the reaction. Now, nephew, this describes a boy. It's used for males and it's your sibling's child. So your sibling's child, It has to be for a male. Now notice I have my's because the child belongs to your sibling and sibling Sibling is gender neutral. It can be for brother or sister, but nephew is only used for Now we have a separate word for the female child. Do you know what that is? Your siblings? Female child. This is niece, niece, niece. Your siblings? Female, child, niece. So you might have a niece and a nephew He's the sweetest little boy, Smith said. We came home and he had stayed up late to see his he's on my lap and he's holding the Oscar and he's Oh, that's really sad. Why did you hit that man? Now hit can be a slap. It's the same thing. So when I slap you, I would never do that. When I slap someone I also hit them. It's the same thing, but hit is more general. So this is also hit, but So hit is a category, and then you have a punch and other forms as well. So we have, I'll just write the ones I shared. So we have slap. This is when your hand is open. I don't necessarily like Hopefully you don't use them, but I guess Slap and then punch is when your fist is closed. Punch. It was a mess. A mess. So to describe something as It's saying, well, imagine your room. You might know this from a room in your house. Your kitchen is a mess. There's things everywhere. It's the opposite of clean. So we use this to describe a situation That's how I would describe So the situation, in this case, the incident This situation was a mess. So it's the opposite of ideal. Opposite of ideal, which So I might say the meeting was a mess. The meeting was a mess, which Many negative things happened, but you would have So it's just a general non specific term but you have to say why what happened? And then and then you could when we told her we're over budget, remember? Remember we talked about to lose it. The client could not control What do you mean you're over budget? This is unacceptable and the client You can also use this for a My kitchen is a mess now in this case That would be the definition A room as a mess, dirty or not, organized TV talk show was the first time Smith had Smith told Noah he understood the often Discussing the background to his It was a lot of things. It was the little boy that watched his all of that just bubbled up in the moment. That's not who I want to be. So to beat someone up, this means So it has a very negative meaning, especially when we're talking about a So to violently attack. And you can do that, obviously, by punching someone to violently attack. Now notice it's a phrasal verb to beat up. So we have this preposition up. It's formed with the verb beat, which you OK, to bubble up, think back to our when They're inside. You're not expressing them. Now imagine this is a fizzy drink like If I shake it and that's Coke when I open this, what's going to happen if I shake a carbonated That is the meaning of bubble up. Because remember, your emotions are They all come to the surface at once. So it's another way of saying explode. All of that just bubbled up. So you can say exploded in that moment. And notice bubble up is also a phrasal verb. We have our verb bubble and our preposition up. That's not who I want to be. Well, I'm glad to hear that up before about growing up in an abusive home. So an abusive home. This is a home where you either witness violence, like he witnessed his father beat up his mother, So it's possible that his father also beat him up. That is what we would describe an abusive home. Now grow up. I find a lot of students notice or know how to use this, but often I see mistakes because You need the verb grow and the preposition up. So when you. Grow up in a home or you can That means that is where you were and then you became older and older So you might say I live in Florida So this this means I spent most of my time when That time when I grew up, I spent it in Texas. Now remember, our verb is grow. So this is in the past. Simple. I grew up in Texas. Don't forget that preposition up. Now, the last thing I will share with you So to open up about something about a negative or simply a So Will Smith is saying he He kept them inside. But then eventually he decided to open up. He decided to share that information. So he maybe he told his close friends, Or he told some family members about the So he shared that personal information. So that is another great phrasal verb. So now you have a lot of new I am going to read this article from pronunciation uninterrupted, So I'll do that now. Will. Smith says bottled rage led him Will Smith has said his bottled rage led him to slap comedian Chris Rock on The actor has been interviewed for which he described as a horrific night He said I was going through not that that justifies my behavior at all. Smith added that there were many nuances and Smith stormed the stage at the Hollywood Awards ceremony after Rock made a joke She has the hair loss, condition, I understand how shocking that I was gone. That was a range that had been He said he also understood the pain he had caused and recalled the reaction of his He's the sweetest little boy, Smith said. We came home and he had stayed up late to see his he's on my lap and he's holding the Oscar and he's It was a mess. The interview on the late night USTV had been publicly challenged about the attack. Smith told Noah he understood the hurt people discussing the background It was a lot of things. It was the little boy that watched You know, all of that just That's not who I want to be. Smith has opened up before about An amazing job. You have already improved your vocabulary so much, learn 150 common idioms in English, and these so you can add them to your speech to help Plus, knowing them will also help Let's get started. To. Play something by ear. This is when you make a decision in the So let's say you're talking about or your friend says what do And you might say let's play it by ear. Let's decide as the weekend happens not in We use this to say that you're ready to So let's say you tell your boss important about the project and I'm all ears to wake up on This is a great one. We've all done. This is when you wake up in a So let's say you wake up, you go your husband says, oh, hi, honey, How are you? Would you like some coffee? What do you want for breakfast? And you're grumpy. I don't care. Where's my phone? And you're being grumpy. Well, then your wife, your husband can say, well, And that's just to let you know When you wing something, you perform a speech So you definitely don't want to wing your IELTS A molehill is really small. A mountain is really big. So it's when you take a minor problem or issue So let's say you got one question wrong on a test Someone could say don't make They're letting you know it's really This is when you have to make a really Let's say you've been a graphic considering going back to school A lawyer or a teacher, so you might say. I'm not sure if I want to be I'm at a crossroads because Your life. To rain cats and dogs. This is when it rains heavily. So let's say your friend in a different And it did. It rained heavily, you can say. Yeah. It. Rained. Cats and dogs to be on top of the world. This is when you're really, really happy. So let's say you've got a new promotion. You can say I'm on top of the world This is when you ignore someone and you you're mad at them, annoyed with them they did So let's say your husband or your Why? Are you giving me the cold shoulder? It's another way of asking why are you mad at me? What did I do wrong? Why are you giving me the cold This is when you delay making a decision, usually because that decision is For example, I asked my boss for a promotion, but He won't say yes. He won't say no. He keeps just saying, oh, I need to He's sitting on the fence This is when you accurately For example, you hit the nail on the head So you explain the situation This simply means you feel great, you So maybe you could say since I more fruits and vegetables, This is a great one to get something out of. Your. System. This is when you do something or you For example, let's say you've been talking You research it, you look at different websites, you talk to people about it, but Someone might say just go skydiving so You do it. You can stop researching it, Move on. On Already I like this one. Speak of the Devil. Speak of the devil. This sounds negative because This is used when you're talking about someone and This has happened, right? Let's say you're talking to a friend about your Oh, is Bob going to come to the party? Oh, I'm not sure. I haven't talked to Bob. And then your phone rings and guess what? It's Bob. And then you can say, speak of the devil This is when you trust someone, So if a coworker's late and they call let's give him the benefit of the doubt. Let's trust that he's actually stuck in traffic. No pain, no gain. This is a. Classic one. This is used to say that if you want results, real results, you have to be willing So I might say, if you want to Skills. No pain, no gain. You have to be willing to get uncomfortable. Hang in there. This is a great one. It simply means don't give up. I know learning a language is hard, but This is used to ask someone what they're thinking. So let's say your friend is and you probably are wondering You can turn to your friend and It's not rocket science. Rocket science is complicated, right? But if we say it's not rocket science, So I could say becoming a confident It's not complicated. You just have to practice speaking This is a great one because it means that you don't punish someone one for So your boss could say, I know you came in late I'm not going to punish you. To make a Long story short, this complicated story and you make it So you could say Long story So there's a long story about but you don't explain those details, you just say. Long story short, we missed our flight. Easy does it, easy does it. This is a way of saying slow down. So if your friend is at the gym and they're trying you might say easy does it slow down This is when you need to start over because the first one failed. So let's say you were trying You came up with a strategy, it didn't well, let's go back to the Once in a blue moon. This is an event that happens infrequently. For example, I only see Kara once in a blue This is a great one because it means For example, call me if you need anything It means I'll come instantly if you need anything. So it's a really nice, reassuring To add insult to injury, this is when you take So let's say you're going out Showed up late. That's already a bad situation. But then, to add insult to injury, your date forgot his wallet and To hit the. Sack this means to go to bed, for example. I'm really tired. I'm going to hit the sack. The balls. In your court, this is used when you need So I might say we offered her a great So it's up to her to decide if she's going to or do something else to be or This is when you look in the wrong For example, if you think I lost your You're accusing the wrong person to This is when you're well prepared or So you might say the conference was They should have gotten their ducks in a row. They should have been organized or prepared This is when you enjoy the advantages. Of. Two very different things at the same time. She works in the city, but She gets the best of both worlds. The lion's share. This is the largest part or most of something. So you might complain. I did the lion's share of work on This is when you're performing really well. Wow, you completed all those reports already. You're. On the ball. To. Pull someone's leg. This is when you're joking with someone, so we usually use this to reassure Don't get upset, I'm just pulling This is when you need to calm down. You regain your composure after angry, annoyed, and then you calm down. So I might say pull yourself together. It was a false alarm, so the alarm change. You really agitated and I'm So far so good. This is how you reply when you want to let How's the project going? So far so good to be. The. Last straw, This is when you have no patience So I might say this is her fifth That's the. Last. Straw. No more patience for her mistakes. Time flies when you're having. Fun. This is used to say that you don't notice. How? Long something takes because it's enjoyable. So you might look at your watch and And then someone could reply and say, yeah, time flies when you're having This is used to say you're upset, you're angry. For example, Janice is bent to work late tonight to make matters worse. Matters in this sense means So I might say I have to work tonight. And to make matters worse, to make that situation Don't judge a book by its cover. You've probably heard this one. It means that you shouldn't judge For example, let's say I'm hiring people Look at his hair and then my colleague would Look at his resume to fall between 2:00. Stools. This is when. Something fails to achieve 2 separate objectives. So let's say you plan to That movie is supposed to be A romantic comedy. 2 objectives. So you could say that movie fell between 2:00. Stools. It wasn't romantic and it wasn't This is when something is exceptionally expensive. Now, airline tickets are usually Even more expensive than usual. I might say my flight cost an arm and a This is used to remind someone that you only So your friend might be concerned. What if I forget all my words during tell that friend cross that Worry about that problem when it This is used when someone complaints So let's say I had a party weeks I can't believe John didn't come to my party. Well, my friend can say don't cry over. Spilled milk. It was 3 weeks. Ago. Why are you still talking about it? Curiosity killed the cat. This is used to say that being questions can lead to an unpleasant situation. So let's say your husband or wife is planning you a surprise birthday party and What are we doing? Where are we going? Who's coming? Then your husband or wife can say curiosity. Killed the cat. Just to remind you don't ask so many questions. To miss. The boat. This is when you lose an opportunity Action for. Example, the application deadline was last week. I missed the boat to be on fire. This is to perform really well. Wow, your presentation was amazing. You were on fire. To spill the. Beans. This is when you reveal. A. Secret when you shouldn't. Have revealed. A secret. So let's say you're planning a surprise don't spill the beans, don't reveal This is when you feel unwell, when you feel sick. I'm a little under the weather This is when something a situation but it results in something So let's say you get fired from your job. Obviously that seems bad, maybe even unlucky. But later on you get a job 10 times better. It pays better. You have a better boss, better Co Everything about this job is better. You can say getting fired My new job is so much better. A dime a dozen. This is used to describe something So you can say tech startups in They're very common. They're everywhere, and they're not very special. Everyone's a tech startup in Silicon Valley. A dime a dozen to beat around the Bush. This is when you avoid saying what you So let's say you want to end your Your friend could tell you Be direct and tell that Better late than never. So let's say. You've been working with a finally got your first promotion after 10 years. And you're telling your friend this you've been there for 10 years, but your To remind you that yes, it took ten years, Better late than never to bite the bullet. I love this idiom. This is when you force yourself to do something difficult or unpleasant because Inevitable means eventually you have to do it. So why not bite the bullet and do it now? For example, just bite the bullet Break a leg. This is a very common idiom that we use to say. Good luck. Good luck. Break a leg. But we especially use this before most commonly A theatrical performance. But when you're going for a job Or when you're doing your speaking So before your speaking exam, your your friend, your partner could say break a leg, When you call it a day, it means you stop Time is up or because you've done enough For example, it's getting late. Let's call it a day, let's call it a day. So that means you can go home So let's say there's this Co worker every day and not doing a very good job at work. They seem very distracted. They're not working very hard, But that person's dad just died. So you might say, let's cut him some slack. His dad just died, so you're not going to To be glad to see the back of That. Somebody has left because you don't like them. So let's say it's Jane's last day at work. She quit. She has a new job. But you didn't like Jane. You can say I'm glad to see the back of Jane This is a compliment used to say that something, usually technology or an invention is So you could give me a compliment and say this YouTube channel is the best If you think that's true There are plenty of fish in the sea, so let's Pierre. Hasn't called me back and it's been 3 weeks. You can encourage your there are plenty of fish in This is used to say that an event will So let's say tomorrow is a vacation day for you, But you might say I'm taking the day off This is when you do something in the but by omitting something So you might say we felt pressured to cut corners because of the tight deadline So your parents might say to you know you're 30 and you still live You need to get your act together. You need to organize yourself so you can Way. Get your act together to break the ice. This is such an important To help. People who don't know each other to especially when they're Let's break the ice by introducing ourselves and sharing something interesting This is used to say that something So if somebody gave you instructions, but their instructions didn't make any sense Do you understand? You can say clear as mud, which tells Crystal clear Something is very His instructions were crystal This is when you do or say something that Don't rock. The boat. Until the negotiations are done. So don't say anything that could upset until we sign the deal, and then you To get out of. Hand This is another way of which means you no longer You could say the party got out of hand, which The party got out of hand and A bad apple. This is used to describe a bad You could say there are a few To cut to the chase, this is most important points of a subject or topic. So if you are running out of time in the in a So I'll cut to the chase. I'll only say the most important This is used when something is very useful for a You. Might say an umbrella would come in handy. An umbrella would be very useful in this This is when you waste time trying to recreate So let's say you ask your boss, should I and your boss suggests using It's already created and your boss can add. Don't reinvent the wheel. So we often use this idiom in When you go with the flow, it means or you agree with the opinion So let's say you're having a company dinner but the majority of people say they want pizza instead of burgers because that's what This is when you do something that He's skating on thin ice by lying to his wife. It involves risk. It's dangerous. Don't do it. A silver lining. This is something positive that So the pandemic, It is negative, right? But is there anything positive? A silver lining, maybe we could say 1. Silver lining of the pandemic is that relationships are with friends This is somebody who likes eating So if people offer me dessert, generally I'll say no because I don't like I don't have a sweet juice, which means I This is when you agree to share the So let's say you're having dinner with a friend, family member, even a romantic partner, You could say no, no, no, let's go Dutch. Which means you're going to divide This is when you have just enough money With food prices increasing, we're This is. When something, usually a person, a the list that you're having a conversation from accounting and you're thinking Fred, Fred, The tip. Of the. Iceberg. This is used to describe a small part of a much Just the. Tip of the iceberg to blow off steam. This is when. You say or do something that helps you Strong emotion. After our fight, I went for So when you were on that walk, you were able A piece of cake. This is something that was extremely easy. That exam was a piece of This is when you no longer Our profits are in increasing, Yet. To get over something, This is It took me two weeks to get over This is used to describe a type Thanks for the invite, but I don't like that category This means to be rich, to have a lot of money. I just found out my cousins loaded This is to stop something before it has We need to nip these rumors in the bud Out of the blue, When something it happens suddenly and you weren't expecting it. My boss gave me a promotion out of the blue. You weren't expecting it. How awesome is that to keep ones chin up? This is to remain cheerful in a difficult we tend to put our chin down, but when For example, I know the economy seems bad, but This is when you try to finish a I raced against the clock to finish the audit and This is when you surprise they weren't expecting or weren't prepared for. The politician was caught off guard when If something is on your radar, it means you're considering it or You could say leaving the It's not even something I'm considering This is to betray someone to do something She told the client she did I can't believe she stabbed me in the back This is when you move quickly So let's say you're at a wedding or a The buffet. Lunch. Everyone made a bee line for the food. They went quickly and directly This is when you're in a situation where The politicians in hot water, after his comments This is when you're dressed We dress to the nines for our wedding anniversary, so you usually dress to the nines for a special This is when you're in a difficult situation If I accept the promotion, then I'll my partner, won't come with me. So I either accept the promotion that I or I stay with Matt and I don't get the promotion. I'm between a rock and a hard place. It's a difficult situation. It's a difficult decision, lo and behold. This. Is an expression used to say that I was on vacation in Japan and lo and So it's very surprising that I see my childhood sweetheart across the world in To. Let the. Cat out of the bag. This is when you accidentally reveal a secret. So let's say you're planning or husband or friend, and they know about it. You might say you know about the party, don't you? Who let the cat out of the bag? Who told you? Who revealed the secret? Who let the cat out of the This is used when all people agree on something, and that something is generally a For example, before we launch the product, So we need to make sure that all plan to launch the product to sell like hot cakes. I love this idiom. This is used when something sells very quickly, For example, her new book sold like hot cakes. So this is a. Very good idiom to fall through the This is used when something is not noticed or And remember you can use two different verbs, fall or through and both have the same For example, I'm sorry I It slipped through the the cracks. It fell through the cracks, I didn't pay enough attention This is a great one as well because we use it when someone is grumpy or angry For example, Julie is up in arms So Julie is angry or grumpy We have to stay late tonight. She's up in arms, fair and square. This means honestly or according to the rules. So let's say my team lost a The other team played better than us. I can say they beat us fair and square. Honestly, according to the rules, Black. Sheep. This is when a member of a other members and we often use this with family. For example, all my cousins are married and He's different from all the in this case family, by the skin of one's teeth. This means barely or by a very slight So we won by only by this much, not And this is to irritate or I don't know why, but Jerry. Really. Gets under my skin. Jerry really irritates me. He upsets me to draw the line. This is when you put a limit on what For example, I want to help my sister, So that is what I will not do. I will not lend her money that is not This is a fun one. It simply means to try something new. For example, you should give bowling a whirl. It's really fun. So if I know you've never gone bowling You should give it a whirl This is used to say that someone is in an For example, I feel like a fish out of Because you have to speak in English, you feel like a fish out of This is when you make an extra attempt For example, she's a great assistant. She always goes the extra mile, so To not see the forest, the trees. This is a very popular one. This is when you're so involved in the small minor details of something that you You don't see the forest For example, the project failed because We lost track of the bigger picture This is when you get information directly I heard straight from the horses mouth that This is when you call for. Help. But you don't actually need nobody will assist you because For example, I'm not surprised She always cries wolf, so she always But then one day she does need help, but nobody will help her because she This is when you have other more For example, can you attend I have bigger fish to fry, so I have a meeting that's dealing with more important To play devil's advocate, this is even if you think the opposite, simply For example, it would be great to get a promotion, but to play devil's advocate, So you actually want the promotion, but you're going to examine the other side This is a very popular one. This is to prevent someone from getting the And you do that by saying exactly For example, she announced her She stole my Thunder, so I the congratulations at my engagement party. But she announced her engagement, so She stole my Thunder to rain on one's parade. This is to spoil someone's Let's say my friend is very happy I could say I hate to rain on your So I'm spoiling her pleasure by saying that everybody got the exact A cakewalk? This is when something is very easy or effortless. For example, learning Would you agree to take a rain check? This is when you decline an invitation by suggesting you'll accept that So not now, but later. Let's say somebody invites me to I could say I'd love to have lunch, but I need but later, to go on a wild goose chase You can use either verbs, go or be. This is when you're looking but it's a complete waste of time because For example, after hiking for five hours, we realized we were on a wild goose chase So we were looking for a specific waterfall. But on the trail we were The waterfall is at a So we were on a wild goose chase because Doesn't. Exist to twist someones arm. This is when you persuade someone to do For example, I didn't want to go to So Sarah persuaded me, convinced me This is when you accept criticism or For example, I missed the deadline, Now I have to meet with my boss. We both know I missed the deadline. It was wrong, so I am going to It's time to face the music, to hit the books. This means to study or do homework. For example, I can't go to the party tonight. I need to hit the books to turn a deaf ear. This is when you ignore someone when For example, I asked Maria to extend So when I asked her to extend the deadline, I She turned a deaf ear to break the bank. This means to cause financial ruin. For example, this vacation costs $5000. It's expensive, but it won't break the bank. It won't cause financial ruin to jump the gun. This is when you do something too soon For example, the company jumped the so they made that decision too soon. They should have thought about it more, took more This is when you try to understand somebody's real feelings or intentions based on For example, she said she's happy, but if you So you try to interpret what she's saying to really understand how she This is when you support someone or stay with someone even when there are For example, a true friend will If there are problems or difficulties, a true This is to start working on Because your previous attempt failed. For example, the board didn't approve our We have to start again from This is from the very beginning. For example, I started this My family started this business from scratch. So when we started there was nothing. We did everything ourselves from This is when you say or do something For example, I shot myself in the foot when Well, my boss asked me to stay so now I can't go to their party or I'm going I shot myself in the foot right off the bat. This means at the very beginning or immediately. For example, you can't expect to feel So immediately at the very beginning, when you can't expect to feel confident This is when something is certain For example, Jane has the promotion in the bag. So even though they haven't formally it's certain that it's hers. She has it in the bag. Hot air. This is a great one. This is when something is not sincere For example, the advertisement claimed I would It was not true to follow in someones footsteps. This is when you do the same thing and that someone else is usually a For example, she followed in her father's This means that her father is also This is when you tell the truth about something, For example, let's call a spade a spade. This company discriminates against women, but it's the truth to be in the same boat. This is when you're in the same situation as For example, we both lost We're in the same boat to pick someones brain. This is when someone has a lot topic and you ask them to share that information. Or you ask them for their opinion. You pick their brain. For example, I'd love to buy you which means I'd love to buy you Ask you questions about what you know, or get your opinion on a specific topic based on your This is when you share an idea, For example, can I bounce a few ideas The devils in the details. This is used when something seems simple, but the For example, the contract is only one page, which So in that one page there's a lot of cause problems, the pot calling the kettle black. This is used to say that someone for a fault that they have in themselves. Let's say Jack is always late and I Jack gets mad at me for being late, I. Can't believe Jack was mad Talk about the pot calling the This is when you choose to not have For example, my team is organizing a I'm not going to be responsible for This is a great one. It's used when something is available For example, do you know if So Sue's office is now empty. Maybe she left the company or she changed offices. So is her office ready and available? Is it up for grabs to put something on ice? This is when you delay something or Let's put the conference on ice until the This is when you try to do something that is too. Difficult. For you, for example, we took I think we bid off more than we can chew. So three projects is too difficult This is when you do something without worrying For example, I wasn't happy at my job, so so I didn't think about the negative consequences. When I made that decision, I threw This is an unpleasant or painful situation even though it's very difficult for you to do so. For example, I lost our company's biggest So that's a very painful situation, knowing that I was personally responsible I have to accept it and deal with And finally to keep ones This is when you watch something or For example, Will you keep an eye on Will you take care of the project? Will you watch the project You have done such a great Now let's keep going, but we'll because we're going to test your listening skills. But at the same time, you're going to improve common expressions, phrasal verbs, idioms, and Let's get started. Here are your instructions for the entire lesson. I am going to say a sentence three times. You need to listen to that sentence and write After I'll explain what I said, and you can learn the pronunciation and you can also learn the advanced expressions So let's get started with I'll say it three times. We should have had a backup plan. We should have had a backup plan. We should have had a backup plan. I said we should have had a backup plan. Let's talk about the pronunciation. Notice I said we should have, we should We combine this to sound like shoulda Shoulda shoulda we shoulda we shoulda had, should Let's. Take a look at the linking between back up. This is how native speakers combine sounds. So two separate words will sound So we take the sound from back the last sound But you have to combine those sounds together. So it sounds like one word backup, We should have had a backup plan. Now what is a backup plan? A backup plan is an alternative plan that Let's say you're going to present So you bring. Your computer and your That's your original plan. That's Plan A, but it's always This could be your backup plan. You can put your presentation So if there's any issues with your And then you can say my computer But thankfully I had my presentation on ausb. Thankfully I had a backup plan. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. Her comment really ****** me off. Her comment really ****** me off. Her comment really ****** me off. I said her comment really ****** me off. Let's look at the pronunciation of ****** But the sound of that Ed is Now, when we say this in a sentence you almost don't hear that T, so you can't Simple. It's the context of the sentence that Her comment really ****** me off. Now what does this mean to **** someone off? This means to make someone really angry. Now, note that this is an informal expression It would be considered impolite if you're really ******* me off. That would be impolite. But native speakers commonly use So I could be talking to my husband or my best In that context, it's not impolite, but it would be impolite to look directly So don't do that. Now we also use this in the The pronunciation is the same This is simply to be really angry. For example, I was so ****** *** when even though my kids promised Do you want to do another listening exercise? I'll say it three times. Take what she says with a grain of salt. Take what she says with a grain of salt. Take what she says with a grain of salt. I said. Take what she says with a grain. Of salt. Here the pronunciation is clear, but if you don't know what this idiom So the idiom is to take We use this to say that you shouldn't because it might not be true. So let's say your friend tells you that. Oh, Gina says. She'll help. Me move this weekend. But from your experience, Gina but she doesn't always follow She doesn't always fulfill those promises. Then you might say, take what You're letting your friend know that and let's focus on the grammar here. What do you notice about this sentence? Take what she says with a grain of salt. What verb tense is this? In? We're using the imperative. Take is in the imperative because There's no subject here. That's how you can identify the imperative. And the imperative is used to give So I'm suggesting that my friend take Your next listening exercise? I'll say it 3 It's high time we let her go. It's high time we let her go. It's high time we let her go, I said. It's high time we let her go for pronunciation. Let's talk about let her go, let her go here. Notice how her sounds like err, you don't hear Before. So I link those sounds together. Letter, letter, letter. Let her go. Let her go. It's high time we let her go. Let's look at the expression. It's high time. When you say it's high time you're saying that something And when you use this expression, you also So we should have. We should. Have. Already let her go, but we didn't. So we. Should do it now because And in my opinion, it's high time that It's high time You should have already done this. You should have already done So you should do it now and not later. What's the finely? Fluent. Academy Well, this is my premium training program movies, YouTube and the news so you fast and add the most common So we do exactly what you're doing now, movies, YouTube, so you get a variety of Plus, you'll have me. As your teacher and I'll be there So it's high time you join and you can look for the link in Coming back to our example is high time This is an alternative way When you fire someone, they permanently So when you let someone go, they It's high time we let her go. Remember, you're suggesting you should let Let's do one last listening exercise. I'll say it three times. He looked a little. Frazzled. He looked a little frazzled. He looked a little frazzled, I said. He looked a little. Frazzled. Let's talk about pronunciation A. Little. Little. Native speakers, we don't It will be either a very soft D little duh Lil, Lil A little, a little. And notice the AH is connected to it. A little, a little, a little. He looked a little. Frazzled. Frazzled. Here it's a past simple Ed verb, but the pronunciation is a very Frazzled. Very soft. Frazzled. Frazzled To be frazzled or to look frazzled. This is when you are or look very tired, So I might look frazzled if you see me. And normally my hair is nice and in a nice I have makeup a little bit under my eyes. Maybe my shirt is a little messy as well. And visibly you can see And then obviously I'll look very tired So you might see it visibly in my appearance and So if you see a Co worker. That looks. Frazzled, you might say. Are you OK? You look a little frazzled. Amazing job improving your listening. Skills. Of fast English. Now let's improve your pronunciation. Let's do an imitation exercise. I'm going to say each sentence And then I want you to repeat this sentence out So try to imitate my pronunciation and So I want you to repeat it out loud three times. We should have had a backup plan. We should have had a backup plan. We should have had a backup plan. Her comment really ****** me off. Her comment really ****** me off. Her comment really ****** me off. Take what she says with a grain of salt. Take what she says. With a grain of salt. Take what she says with a grain of salt. It's high time we let her go. It's high time we let her go. It's high time we let her go. He looked a little frazzled. He looked a little frazzled. He looked a little frazzled. Are you ready? All right, let's go. So I'll say it three times. My mom nitpicks like crazy. My mom nitpicks like crazy. My mom nitpicks like crazy. Did you get this one? I said my mom nitpicks like crazy. The pronunciation is clear, but if you you're not going to understand Here, our verb is to nitpick to nitpick. What does this mean? This is when you find faults. Faults are things that you When you find faults in I'm sure you know someone Or maybe you nitpick yourself. Let's say you're with someone and you The restaurant is beautiful, but your friend finds faults in Your friend nitpicks. You could say the dinner was amazing, but of course Lindsay wasn't happy about the Lindsay is a nitpicker, so About the color of the. Plates. That is such a detail that is not important. So this is a. Perfect example of someone who nitpicks. But notice in my example I A nitpicker. This is the noun form and a nitpicker The original example was my mom This simply means. A. Lot or quickly, but in this context it means. A lot. So my mom nitpicks like crazy. My mom nitpicks a lot. You could. Also, say I worked like crazy all weekend. So you worked a lot all weekend. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. It's OK to be picky sometimes. It's OK to be picky sometimes. It's OK to be picky sometimes. Did you get? This one I said it's OK to be Notice I use the contraction. It's it's this is the contraction To. Be but I didn't say it's OK. To. Be picky. I said to be to be so an unstressed to. It's OK to be to be to be picky. It's OK to be picky now. Don't confuse this expression to be picky. With. Our last expression to nitpick. Yes, they both use the word pick, but This expression to be picky. This describes someone who has very strong For example, most young kids are picky. I don't know about you, but when ten years old, there were many My diet was very simple. I had a small number of and I had a very large number of So as a child I was picky when it came to food. When it came to eating, what about you? Were you a picky eater? Were you picky about your Or maybe you still are right now? Some adults are picky as well. In our original example, I Sometimes it's OK. That means it is acceptable. It's acceptable to be picky to have those strong Sometimes, for example, it's OK to Choosing a job, you should have what you want that job to have the Choosing a job. Choosing a house you should definitely be. Picky. Have very strong preferences Maybe that's the ultimate one. You should be very picky when you choose a spouse Life. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. I'm B. Let's call it a day. I'm B. Let's call it a day. I'm B. Let's call it a day. Did you get this one? I said I'm beat. Let's call it a day. Let's talk about the contraction at the beginning. I'm of course, this is I am, I'm, I'm beat. I'm beat. I'm beat, let's call it. But with linking, we're going So it sounds like call it, call it, so call lit. But then we have to say it as one word. Call it, call it, call it a day. Call it a day. Call it a day. I'm beat. Let's call it a day. To be beat. I'm beat. This means to be. Very. Tired to be exhausted. So instead of saying I'm very tired, Where? Beat. The verb to be. Now let's talk about the expression. Let's call it a day to call it a day. This is an expression used to say for the day and you stop working for the you've done what you've needed to do, everyone is beat, and it isn't So maybe it's 3:00 and technically the day everyone is beat, that they're So you might say, let's call it a day, let's just Sleep. We'll come back tomorrow and begin again. You could combine this with our And you could say we've been Let's call it a day. So again, maybe it's Friday at 2:00, and But because you've been let's just call it a day and stop working Now I'll say it three times. You shouldn't be so nosy. You shouldn't be so nosy. You shouldn't be so nosy. Did you get this one? I said. You. Shouldn't be so nosy here. Notice I said shouldn't, Shouldn't you? Shouldn't be? This is. A contraction of. Should. Not shouldn't you shouldn't be You shouldn't be. You shouldn't be so nosy. What does this mean To be nosy? To be nosy. This is used to say that your interested When you have no right to be interested in that, you have no right to know what other people are A lot of people. Are nosy when it comes to their They want to know what their at online, who they're talking But ultimately you have no right your significant other's personal privacy. So if your significant. Other. Leaves their phone and goes to the you pick up the phone and you try to look at And that's when someone can Let's try this one more time. I'll say it three times. Being nosy is one of my pet. Peeves. Being nosy is one of my pet peeves. Being nosy is one of my pet peeves. Did you get this one? I said being nosy is one of my pet peeves. And now you know what nosy means, so I Notice how this is a gerund statement, a In ING being nosy, jaron statements So in general, being nosy is one of my pet peeves. What is a pet peeve? A pet peeve is something that especially annoys But a pet peeve is when whenever that So I googled this and according to Google, the top three pet peeves things The top three pet peeves are loud chewing. So if your coworker is, or your kids, your husband Peeves. #2 According to Google, is bad manners. So if you have bad manners, So if someone holds the door it's considered polite to So if you hold a door open for they go right in and they That would be an example of And the person who held the door open would be And #3, according to Google, is clutter. Clutter describes when a room So if there were things all over my office, papers everywhere, things were not neat What about you? What's your pet peeve? Share your pet peeve. In the comments below. Now let's do an imitation exercise where so you're going to listen to me Going to repeat. The sentence out loud. So say the sentence out loud and And then you'll repeat that So let's do that right now. My mom nitpicks like crazy. My mom nitpicks like crazy. My mom nitpicks like crazy. It's OK to be picky. Sometimes it's OK to be picky. Sometimes it's OK to be picky. Sometimes I'm beat. Let's call it a day. I'm beat. Let's call it a day. I'm beat. Let's call it a day. You shouldn't be so nosy. You shouldn't be so nosy. You shouldn't be so nosy. Being nosy is one of my pet peeves. Being nosy is one of my pet peeves. Being nosy is one of my pet peeves. Are you ready? So let's start with the first listening exercise. I'll say it three times. The party got a little out of hand. The party got a little out of hand. The party got a little out of hand, I said. The party got a little out of hand. Let's talk about a little notice. There are those two T's in the middle. A native speaker is just going to Lil, Lil A little, a little. Or a native speaker will pronounce them as D's, little, dull, dull, little, Ah, a little. A little. A little. The party got a little out of. This is combined to sound. Like outa outa. The party got a little out of the Out of hand. What does that mean, to get Well, out of hand means out of control, which means that you no longer The party got a little out of hand. So this is not a good. Thing In a more everyday context, you might say, my shopping has gotten a little out of hand, Which means you no. Longer Have control over your shopping, so you're probably buying a lot When you. Don't need to. My shopping has gotten a little. Out of hand. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. His e-mail really caught me off guard. His e-mail really caught me off. Guard. His e-mail really caught me off. Guard. I said his e-mail really caught me off guard. Let's talk about his e-mail. His Although the spelling is an S, So we can use that to link to the next word so it will sound like his e-mail. You'll hear the on the word e-mail, but then You need to pronounce them together. His e-mail, His e-mail, his e-mail, his e-mail. Really caught notice here. The spelling and the Caught caught His e-mail When you catch someone off guard, this is an you surprise someone, generally with information There are two options with our sentence. His e-mail really caught me off guard. Either AI wasn't expecting him to e-mail me, so caught me off guard, or Option but I wasn't expecting the e-mail to contain so it was the content of the e-mail that We don't have enough information It would be the overall context that would Final note that this expression to catch someone So you could say I was caught I was caught off guard by his e-mail. That's the passive voice and is very Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. Thanks for sticking up for me. Thanks for sticking up for me. Thanks for sticking up for me. I said thanks. For. Sticking. Up for me? Notice that the word for sounds like Fer Fer. This is because it's unstressed. Thanks for thanks for sticking up for me. For me. So in both places in this sentence. Thanks for thanks for sticking up for me. Thanks for sticking up for me. What does this mean? When you stick up for someone, it Or do you defend someone, especially So it's a positive. Thing to stick. Up for someone else now. I have seen you, my students, my amazing Sometimes I'll be reviewing the comments and I'll see there's a negative comment But then you, one of my awesome students sticks up for me and you reply to that comment This video is awesome and Jennifer's the best. I have seen this happen. And then so I could reply and say, oh thanks You supported me when I was being criticized. Thanks for sticking up for me. Thanks for sticking up for me. Let's try this. Again, I'll say it three times. It's so hard sticking to this diet. It's so hard sticking to this diet. It's so hard sticking to this diet. I said it's so hard sticking to this diet. Notice how I use a contraction. Is it this is it? Is it is so hard. It's it's so hard now. One thing that native speakers do We make it. Longer to emphasize how hard it is, or It's so hard. And the longer we say the word, the For example. I'm so tired. Now. Obviously I'm exaggerating a little bit, but native speakers can be quite So now let's talk about what this means. Notice in here we have. This diet. It's. So. Hard it's. So. Hard sticking to this. Diet. In this case, diet is a noun, a diet. I simply used a possessive this diet So a plan that tells you what you're going and how much of something you're The purpose is generally to lose You temporarily do this until you reach your goal, which is to lose a certain Of body fat. But the exact same word, A diet. Can also be used as a general term to refer Of people. Consumes, so you could say overall. I. Have a very healthy diet. This is. A way of saying overall. The. Food and drink I consume on Overall, I have a very healthy diet, but I'm Notice here the expression is to go on a diet. This is how we say to start a So we use the verb go and you go on a diet. So now you know what a diet is, and So let's talk about sticking to a diet. It's so hard sticking to this diet. When you stick to something, it means you continue doing that thing even though it's Why? The example is it's so hard sticking Let's try this one more time. I'll say it three times. Do you think you're gonna stick it out? Do you think you're gonna stick it out? Do you think you're going to stick it out? I. Said Do you think you're going to stick it do you think do you think you're will sound like Will sound like. Gonna. These are all unstressed sounds and reduced sound. Do you think you're gonna do you Let's talk about the combination The T is actually between 2 vowels, so we'll pronounce the T like a soft. D. And then on the stick, I'll take that K sound and I'll transfer it to the next Stick it out. But you have to say it all together. Stick, kid, doubt. Stick it out. Stick it out, Stick it out. Do you think you're going to stick it out? Now what does this mean? When you stick something out, it means you until it's finished, until it's So let's go back to our last example. It's so hard sticking to this diet, sticking to That is difficult. Or challenging and then I ask. Do you think you're going to? Stick it out. Do you think you're going to continue So maybe this eating plan So if you stick it out, it means You follow the eating plan for 90 These two expressions. Are very similar. Just remember, when you stick to something, it means that you're focused You're dedicated, you're going to fulfill a So that's stick to something. Now when you stick it out, it simply Now let's do an imitation exercise so you can practice your pronunciation and So I will say a sentence. And then you are going to repeat the sentence. Out. Loud. And then we'll repeat each sentence three times. So let's. Start with the 1st. Sentence. The party got a little out of hand. The party got a little out of hand. The party got a little out of hand. His e-mail really caught me off guard. His e-mail really caught me off guard. His e-mail really caught me off guard. Thanks for sticking up for me. Thanks for sticking up for me. Thanks for sticking up for me. It's so hard sticking to this diet. It's so hard sticking to this diet. It's so hard sticking to this diet. Do you think you're going to stick it out? Do you think you're going to stick it out? Do you think you're going to stick it out? Are you ready? Let's start our first listening exercise. I'll say it three times. You all set for the meeting tomorrow. You all set for the meeting tomorrow. You all set for the meeting tomorrow. How do you do with that? I said you all set for the meeting tomorrow. Let's talk about the pronunciation changes. Notice you all, you all, you all. I said it quickly, but I did You all, you all set. You all set. I will point out that in the South, it's very common to combine you all into one word. Do you know what that? Is y'all y'all. I'm sure you've heard this mainly in movies or TV. Y'all, y'all ready. I personally don't say y'all because but it is extremely common in the southern US. For me, I simply say. You all. You all. I say them quickly, but I do say both words. You all set. You all set for the meeting tomorrow. Notice here how for the meeting More of a reduced sound, A quick sound. It sounds like fur. Fur. For the meeting you all set for. For the meeting. For the meeting, for the meeting tomorrow. Now, before we talk about what this sentence Does this sentence perhaps look Is there? A. Word missing. The auxiliary verb are is missing. Are you all set for the meeting tomorrow? We need R as an auxiliary verb because. This is. A question. Grammatically, you need it. But in spoken English, native speakers commonly grammatically, but they're not required So a native speaker does not need to what a sentence means, and that's why in So grammatically, are you all A native speaker would commonly say you all set, to show it's a question, we can use a rising Now let's talk about what this means. This has a very simple meaning. To be all set is simply to So it's asking the person if they're if they're prepared for the meeting tomorrow. Native speakers commonly use this to ask for example to leave a. House. Leave a restaurant, leave a hotel room, it Words. With a rising intonation to show it's a question. All set, all set. I'm asking you, Are you ready? All set And then you can simply reply Glad you clash. You all set. All set, all set, merman, all set. All set. Let's try another listening exercise. I'll say it three times. This report's all over the map. This report's all over the map. This report's all over the Map I. Said. This report's all over the map for pronunciation. Notice here this reports report is as a So notice how I can link those sounds together by extending that sound to the All over, all over over. All over. This reports. All over the map. The expression to be all over the map. This means that something is in a disorganized The report is confusing. As another example, I could say the consultant's to be all over the map, which means his his Maybe they talked about a lot of different They were all over the map. Yeah, this term's all over the map. The. Internet's all over the map on that. You know, charming, but all over the map. And let's try this again. I'll. Say it three times. Keep your eyes peeled for the turn. Keep your eyes peeled for the turn. Keep your eyes peeled for the turn. I said Keep. Your. Eyes peeled for the. Turn. Notice the reduced sound. For your your. Eyes your your your eyes. Keep your eyes. Keep your eyes peeled. Fur, we talked about this before. 4 becomes a unstressed, reduced sound. Fur. Keep your eyes peeled. For the turn. For the turn. For the turn. For the turn. Notice here the sentence starts with which means it's the imperative verb tense. And we use the imperative verb Keep your eyes peeled. I'm giving you this as an order or a suggestion. And what does that mean to keep your eyes peeled? This means to watch carefully or to be on alert. So if you're driving and you're you need to watch carefully for the That's the turn if you're driving. Keep your eyes peeled for the turn. Watch carefully. Be on alert for the term so you don't miss it This is an expression you can Let's say you're editing an important You're submitting for an You might say. Keep your eyes peeled for any Which means as you're reviewing Watch carefully, be on alert for which is very good advice for everyone. Keep your eyes peeled. Keep your eyes peeled. Keep. Your eyes peeled. Are you ready to try this again? I'll say it three times. Can you just ballpark the cost for me? Can you just ballpark the cost for me? Can you just ballpark the cost for me? I said, can you just ballpark the cost for me? Can in this sentence is an auxiliary verb. So we pronounce it unstressed, Kin, Can you? Can you and you you can make that Kenya. Kenya. Kenya, just I think I did say can you, but you Kenya, can you just ballpark the About four. It sounds like Fer for me. For me? Let's talk about this odd word here. Ballpark. Did you notice that grammatically, it's a verb? It's the main verb of the When you ballpark something, it means you And yes, a ballpark is where people play baseball, but we're not talking about To ballpark something is to provide In our sentence, it's a verb to ballpark, A. Figure. A. Ballpark figure. So the figure is the number, And if it's a ballpark figure, It's not exact, it's not which means it's more of a range, a Maybe a consultant is providing you a quote, and you want to know well how much But the consultant can't give point because he doesn't have enough information. So the consultant could say. If I had to ballpark it, I'd say 3 to So you know, it's just an estimate. So just give me a number ballpark. Take a guess. Ballpark figure that's. Fine. A ballpark figure. Let's do this one more time. I'll say it three times. Let's revisit this down the line. Let's revisit this down the line. Let's revisit this down the line. I. Said let's revisit this down the line. Notice let's is the contraction. For let us let's let's revisit. When you put re in front of a base Visit this again. But for pronunciation, that re is a strong sound. E you hear that? E Revisit. Revisit. Let's revisit this down the line and Let us let the imperative verb tense Let's revisit this down the line. Let's talk about down the line. This means in the future, but at an You don't know when we'll revisit this. Visit this. Again, but you know it will happen in the future, but it could be a week from now, So this is a. Way that a native speaker can postpone I'll do it down the line because it's it's just some point in the future. Here's another example that could apply to you. If you don't improve your English now, Now notice when I say down the line lack of English skills could hurt your career. But at some. Point in the future. It could be tomorrow, it could be a week And that's why it's so important Improving your English. Amazing job, improving your listening skills. Now let's do an imitation exercise so you can improve your pronunciation and So I'll say the sentence, and then I want you to say the sentence out loud and And I'll repeat each sentence three times. So let's do that now. You all set for the meeting tomorrow. You all set for the meeting tomorrow. You all set for the meeting tomorrow. This report's all over the map. This report's all over the map. This report's all over the map. Keep your eyes peeled for the turn. Keep your eyes peeled for the turn. Keep your eyes peeled for the turn. Can you just ballpark the cost for me? Can you just ballpark the cost for me? Can you just ballpark the cost for me? Let's revisit this down the line. Let's revisit this down the line. Let's revisit this down the line. Are you ready? Here we go with the first listening exercise. I'll say it three times. Have you edited it yet? Have you edited it yet? Have you edited it yet? Did you get this one? I said. Have you edited it? Yet. This is. Extremely difficult to say. It was difficult for me to say just now. Have you edited it? So notice we have edited, edit and then in the That's the past simple of to edit, edited. Now we have to add on it, and you're Edited. So we already have. A did. Did. Now we're going to add on it to it. Have you edited it? Yet have you? Edited it yet that is extremely I would say this is a tongue twister, It. I would change it to the noun to avoid Have you edited the report yet? Have you edited the document yet? Now let's talk about the grammar. What do you notice about this? Well, first of all, it's in question form. And what verbatense is this? It's the present perfect. Have you edited? So we have have or has conjugated with the edited And then we have yet because yet the present perfect, yet is also used in So to answer this negatively I I haven't edited it yet. And. Remember that we use already affirmative statements, positive statements. Yes, I've already edited, edited. It. Together on my Mac. Took. That video. Edited it and woo, I'm glad I don't have to say that anymore because it was Let's try this again. Here's your listening exercise. Does she have what it takes to move up? Does she have what it takes to move up? Does she have what it takes to move up? I said. Does she have what it takes to move up? Let's talk about does. She? Does is an auxiliary verb, so we can pronounce Does does now. She begins with a SH, so we're going Does she? Does she? Does she? Does she. We can combine what it into what it. Notice I have a soft D because we have AT between What it what it does? She. Have what it takes to move up to to move up. So 2 will become unstressed to move up. So I'll use that to combine those Let's talk about what this means. Let's talk about the expression This means that you have this skills or the Right now I hope you're thinking, Jennifer, which means you have the skills or the qualities So right now you might be thinking, well, I don't have the fluency skills, but do you Patience, consistency, motivation, dedication. Those are the qualities necessary to So you don't need the skills, you need Jennifer, I have what it takes to become fluent. So put that. In the comments, because I know Now let's talk about to move up, When you move up, it means you get a more So basically you get a promotion, And it's amazing that you're because improving your communication It will help you advance in your career. Get. A promotion a lot faster. I don't have what it takes. Do you have what it takes? Because I have what it takes. Let's try this again. I'll say it three times. I'm finally all caught up. I'm finally all caught up. I'm finally all caught up, I said. I'm finally all caught up. Of course caught. Sounds like ought ought caught so now we have caught up, Again, I'll pronounce it as a soft D, but Caught up. Caught up dub. Caught up. Caught up. I'm finally all caught up. Let's talk about what this means. The expression is to be caught up. I am caught up. I'm finally all caught up to be caught up. This means that you've finished all the So maybe you had some tasks that you you didn't have time and now today you So then you can say I'm finally all caught up. Notice in my example I said all caught up. Here all simply means 100% entirely. It's unnecessary to include it, but native speakers really like to include So you could say I'm caught up, I'm all caught up. They have the exact same meaning, but a native speaker will likely Using this expression I could say So here, notice I mentioned So that means I either read the emails or even yesterday or even earlier today. Or maybe I responded to the emails as well. I'm all caught up on my emails. All caught up. OK, we're all caught up. You all caught up. Do you want to try another listening exercise? I'll. Say it three times. Do you have a SEC to bring them up to speed? Do you have a SEC? To bring them up to speed, do you I said. Do you have a SEC to bring them up to speed? Let's talk about. Do. You have AA I can combine. Do you and say do ya? Do ya have a hava? Do you have a? Do you have a? Do you have a? Do you have a SEC? Notice that sound in there. SEC. Do you? Have a SEC. To bring em I can reduce the them, left with em and I have to add it to Up to up to. Speed up to speed here. SEC. This is the short form of the word second. This is very commonly used as a question. Do you have a SEC? Do you have a SEC? I'm asking you for a short amount of time. Do you have a SEC. And this is commonly used before you ask for Do you have a SEC? Can you review this document? Do you have a SEC? Can we discuss the conference? Let's talk about to bring This is an expression and when it's when you share the latest or most recent news and So let's say you were on vacation for one week, and during that one week you You weren't talking to anyone at work. So you. Don't have the latest information You might say I was on vacation for a week. Can you bring me up to speed on the conference? So you can. Specify something specific the conference share information or news related to because that's the information Doctor Cox, do you have a SEC? Hey, Jack. Do you have a SEC? Do you have a SEC to talk? About my piece. Let's try this one more time. I'll say it three times. Are you going out tonight? Are you going out tonight? Are you going out tonight? This was an easy one, right? Are you going out tonight? The pronunciation is quite clear. Notice how we can combine out tonight together? When I say out, I'm not going The T is just silent. But tonight starts with AT. So I can use that T from tonight for both words. If I say them together, out So you can combine those together, I included this easy example because this is a and perhaps you don't know what it means or you That's the expression to go out. This is when you do a social So you leave your home to do Perhaps it's to have a nice dinner or your family or friends, Are you going out? Are you going out tonight? Notice that this is. In the present continuous, because it's asking about a plan in But the expression is to go out. So your verb is go. If it were last night, you would Now this isn't clear what you did. So someone would have to ask And then you could tell them, To go out tonight are. We going out tonight you. Want to go out tonight? Now let's do an imitation exercise so I'm going to say each sentence again, the sentence out loud, and then I'll Have you edited it yet? Have you edited it yet? Have you edited it yet? Does she have what it takes to move up? Does she have what it takes to move up? Does she have what it takes to move up? I'm finally all caught up. I'm finally all caught up. I'm finally all caught up. Do you have a SEC to bring him up to speed? Do you have a SEC to bring him up to speed? Do you have a SEC to bring him up to speed? Are you going out tonight? Are you going out tonight? Are you going out tonight? Amazing job with this. Now, to be honest, I really regret using edited it as one of my examples because it was So I'm sure it was extremely So I'm going to say that's a tongue So remember, have you edited Have you edited it yet? Have you edited it yet? Have you edited it yet? Put that. In the. Comments. Have you edited it yet? Put that in the comments and now I'm so you can practice that as well. Amazing job with this lesson. Congratulations on everything Of course, make sure you like this video. Share it with your friends and subscribe so And you can get this free speaking to speak English fluently and confidently. You can click here to download it or And why don't you keep improving your