Okay, now I don't want but it's just come to my attention (Laughter) Also, the person to your left is a liar. Also the person sitting We're all liars. What I'm going to do today is I'm going to show you what the research how you can become a liespotter and why you might want and go from liespotting to truth seeking, and ultimately to trust building. Now, speaking of trust, ever since I wrote no one wants to meet me in person They say, &quot;It's okay, we'll email you.&quot; (Laughter) I can't even get My husband's like, &quot;Honey, deception? Maybe you could have focused on cooking. So before I get started, is I'm going to clarify my goal for you, which is not to teach a game of Gotcha. Liespotters aren't those nitpicky kids, those kids in the back of the room Your eyebrow twitched. I watch that TV show 'Lie To Me.' No, liespotters are armed with scientific knowledge They use it to get to the truth, and they do what mature they have difficult conversations sometimes during very difficult times. And they start up that path and that proposition is the following: Lying is a cooperative act. Think about it, a lie has no power Its power emerges when someone else agrees So I know it may sound like tough love, but look, if at some point it's because you agreed to get lied to. Truth number one about lying: Now not all lies are harmful. Sometimes we're willing for the sake of social dignity, maybe to keep a secret that should We say, &quot;Nice song.&quot; &quot;Honey, you don't look fat in that, no.&quot; Or we say, favorite of the digiratti, &quot;You know, I just fished So sorry.&quot; But there are times when we are unwilling And that can have dramatic costs for us. Last year saw 997 billion dollars in corporate fraud alone That's an eyelash That's seven percent of revenues. Deception can cost billions. Think Enron, Madoff, the mortgage crisis. Or in the case like Robert Hanssen or Aldrich Ames, lies can betray our country, they can compromise our security, they can cause the deaths Deception is actually serious business. This con man, Henry Oberlander, British authorities say he could have undermined the entire And you can't find this guy on Google; He was interviewed once, He said, &quot;Look, I've got one rule.&quot; And this was Henry's rule, he said, &quot;Look, everyone is willing They're ready to give you something And that's the crux of it. If you don't want to be what is it that you're hungry for? And we all kind of hate to admit it. We wish we were smarter, more powerful, taller, richer -- the list goes on. Lying is an attempt to bridge that gap, to connect our wishes and our fantasies about who we wish we were, with what we're really like. And boy are we willing to fill in On a given day, studies show anywhere from 10 to 200 times. Now granted, many of those are white lies. But in another study, it showed that strangers lied three times within the first 10 minutes (Laughter) Now when we first hear We can't believe how prevalent lying is. We're essentially against lying. But if you look more closely, We lie more to strangers Extroverts lie more than introverts. Men lie eight times more about themselves Women lie more to protect other people. If you're an average married couple, you're going to lie to your spouse Now, you may think that's bad. If you're unmarried, Lying's complex. It's woven into the fabric We're deeply ambivalent about the truth. We parse it out on an as-needed basis, sometimes for very good reasons, other times just because That's truth number two about lying. We're against lying, but we're covertly for it in ways that our society has sanctioned It's as old as breathing. It's part of our culture, Think Dante, Shakespeare, (Laughter) Lying has evolutionary value Researchers have long known the larger the neocortex, the more likely it is to be deceptive. Now you might remember Koko. Does anybody remember Koko the gorilla Koko was taught to communicate Here's Koko with her kitten. It's her cute little, fluffy pet kitten. Koko once blamed her pet kitten (Laughter) We're hardwired to become It's starts really, really early. How early? Well babies will fake a cry, pause, wait to see who's coming and then go right back to crying. One-year-olds learn concealment. (Laughter) Two-year-olds bluff. Five-year-olds lie outright. They manipulate via flattery. Nine-year-olds, masters of the cover-up. By the time you enter college, you're going to lie to your mom By the time we enter this work world we enter a world that is just cluttered partisan media, ingenious identity thieves, world-class Ponzi schemers, a deception epidemic -- in short, what one author calls It's been very confusing What do you do? Well, there are steps we can take Trained liespotters get to the truth The rest of us, Why is it so easy to learn? There are good liars and bad liars. There are no real original liars. We all make the same mistakes. So what I'm going to do is I'm going And then we're going and see if we can find them ourselves. We're going to start with speech. (Video) Bill Clinton: I'm going to say this again. I did not have sexual relations I never told anybody to lie, And these allegations are false. And I need to go back to work Thank you. (Applause) Pamela Meyer: Okay, Well first we heard what's known Studies show that people will resort to formal rather We also heard We know that liars will unconsciously from their subject, using language as their tool. Now if Bill Clinton had said, or Richard Nixon's favorite, he would have been a dead giveaway for any liespotter that knows that qualifying language, as it's called, further discredits the subject. Now if he had repeated or if he had peppered his account and we're all really glad he would have further discredited himself. Freud had it right. Freud said, look, &quot;No mortal can keep a secret. If his lips are silent, And we all do it no matter We all chatter with our fingertips. I'm going to show you who's chattering with his fingertips. (Laughter) Now this brings us to our next pattern, With body language, You've really got to just throw Let the science temper Because we think liars Well guess what, they're known to freeze We think liars won't look you in the eyes. Well guess what, they look just to compensate for that myth. We think warmth and smiles But a trained liespotter Can you all spot the fake smile here? You can consciously contract But the real smile's in the eyes, They cannot be consciously contracted, especially if you overdid the Botox. Don't overdo the Botox; Now we're going to look at the hot spots. Can you tell what's happening Can you start to find the hot spots to see the discrepancies between someone's words Now, I know it seems really obvious, but when you're having a conversation attitude is by far the most overlooked An honest person They're going to show They're going to be enthusiastic. They're going to be willing and helpful They're going to be willing provide details. They're going to say, &quot;Hey, maybe it was those guys in payroll They're going to be infuriated throughout the entire course they'll be infuriated throughout And if you ask someone honest what should happen an honest person is much more likely to recommend strict rather Now let's say you're having with someone deceptive. That person may be withdrawn, look down, lower their voice, pause, be kind of herky-jerky. Ask a deceptive person they're going to pepper it in all kinds of irrelevant places. And then they're going to tell their story And what a trained interrogator does is they come in and in very subtle ways they will ask that person and then they'll watch them squirm, and track which questions produce Why do they do that? We rehearse our words, but we rarely rehearse our gestures. We say &quot;yes,&quot; we shake our heads &quot;no.&quot; We tell very convincing stories, We commit terrible crimes, and we smile at the delight Now, that smile is known And we're going to see that but we're going to start -- this is presidential who shocked America by fathering We're going to see him talk See now if you can spot him slightly shrugging his shoulders. (Video) John Edwards: I'd be happy I know that it's not possible because of the timing of events. So I know it's not possible. Happy to take a paternity test, Interviewer: Are you going to do JE: Well, I'm only one side. But I'm happy to participate in one. PM: Okay, those head shakes once you know to look for them. There are going to be times while masking another that just Murderers are known to leak sadness. Your new joint venture partner celebrate, go out to dinner with you And we're not all going to become but there's one I can teach you and it's easy to learn, and that's the expression of contempt. Now with anger, you've got It's still somewhat But when anger turns to contempt, It's associated with moral superiority. And for that reason, it's very, Here's what it looks like. It's marked by one lip corner It's the only asymmetrical expression. And in the presence of contempt, and it doesn't always follow -- look the other way, reconsider the deal, say, &quot;No thank you. I'm not coming up Science has surfaced We know, for example, we know liars will shift their blink rate, point their feet towards an exit. They will take barrier objects and put them between themselves They'll alter their vocal tone, often making their vocal tone much lower. Now here's the deal. These behaviors are just behaviors. They're not proof of deception. They're red flags. We're human beings. We make deceptive flailing gestures They don't mean anything But when you see clusters Look, listen, probe, get out of that very comfortable walk into curiosity mode, have a little dignity, treat the person Don't try to be like those folks that pummel their subjects Don't be too aggressive, it doesn't work. Now, we've talked a little bit and how to spot a lie. And as I promised, we're now going But I'm going to show you two videos, two mothers -- one is lying, And these were surfaced by researcher And I think they're an excellent example This mother, Diane Downs, shot her kids at close range, drove them to the hospital claimed a scraggy-haired stranger did it. And you'll see when you see the video, she can't even pretend What you want to look for here between horrific events that she describes And if you look closely, you'll see (Video) Diane Downs: I can see Christie reaching and the blood just kept And that -- maybe but I don't think so. That bothers me the most. PM: Now I'm going to show you a video of an actual grieving mother, confronting her daughter's murderer Here you're going to see no false emotion, just the authentic expression (Video) Erin Runnion: on the third anniversary and you hurt her, and you crushed her, you terrified her until her heart stopped. And she fought, and I know she fought you. But I know she looked at you and you still wanted to kill her. And I don't understand it, and I never will. PM: Okay, there's no doubting Now the technology is progressing on, the science of it. We know, for example, that we now have specialized eye trackers MRI's that can decode the signals when we're trying to be deceptive. And these technologies are going as panaceas for deceit, and they will prove But you've got to ask yourself Who do you want on your side someone who's trained or some guy who's going to drag through the door? Liespotters rely on human tools. They know, as someone once said, &quot;Character's who you are in the dark.&quot; And what's kind of interesting Our world is lit up 24 hours a day. It's transparent broadcasting the buzz that have made a choice to live It's a much more noisy world. So one challenge we have is to remember, oversharing, that's not honesty. Our manic tweeting and texting to the fact that the subtleties that's still what matters, So in this much noisier world, it might make sense for us to be just a little bit more explicit When you combine the science with the art of looking, listening, you exempt yourself You start up that path because you signal to everyone around you, you say, &quot;Hey, my world, our world, My world is going to be and falsehood is recognized And when you do that, the ground around you starts And that's the truth. Thank you. (Applause)