Dallas- Giving people behind the curtain of some For some reason, you that God's okay with it, but we have these running can raise the dead. He can heal the sick, but he's horrible with directions. John- Directions are not his forte. Dallas- (laughs) Right, so at the end of episode eight, there's a little Easter that we did. Dallas- Yeah, so there's where Jesus meets the other disciples at the southern fountain, and you even told Nicodemus and we're gonna, we're gonna for our ministry, and where what, what happened in that take? Jon- So, I thought wouldn't 'cause we actually in this was just me and Jordan and we're kind of -- Dallas- And Giovanni. Jon-And Giovanni, and then there was nobody else there like, I think the cue wasn't come out yet or something, and I said wouldn't it be funny like if they just didn't show up? Jon- And then it turns out the wrong fountain, the wrong what is the, the wrong corner. Dallas- Yeah, you had said, you're like, southern fountain right? And then little James, without missing a beat, just goes, no, no, you said the northern fountain. And this notion of I did it again. So, we, that became a running gag of almost every scene You were always turning The disciples were always going geeze. Jon- It's this way, no Master it's this... yeah oh, I was turned Dallas- So, so there's that correct for the life of him, and then also, he is, We had the, 'cause we had you -- Jon Awkward joke. Dallas- Well, it came because and the, at the feast at Matthew's house at the beginning of episode eight. Very famous story from is dining with tax collectors and sinners, and we have the scene joking with each other, and they're all saying, would trip on his robe, and, oh, looking, the look and everyone laughed, and then Rivka says, I thought I was gonna be arrested, and everyone laughs, and you say, with your luck you know and it was always stunned. The actors just wouldn't react at all. Jon- Just bombed, just bombed. Dallas- Until you were And one time, I literally, you can hear me in one of the out takes because it was, every time and we would say like won't just add lib a little bit, and every time it was just crickets. Jon Just crickets. Dallas- And you're like but I can't land a punchline. God why couldn't you to tell a joke? Just once. Jon- You got healing, that's all you get. Dallas- Yeah, but I, for me that has helped through the shoot. Jon- Oh, yeah. Dallas- Has given us free me from the weight of it at times, 'cause if I think too much about it, about some of the scenes is overwhelming. I mean, I remember when we at the end of episode one you and Liz and I were all tears streaming down our we were about to do the most and feeling the weight of all of it, and it was also six below zero. Jon- Yeah, yeah. Dallas- But I think, for the constant riffing and that we've created of Jesus and bad with punch Has it helped you? Jon- Yeah, I think, I that it's helped you, and for like, because it can get overwhelming thinking about what it is we're doing, to be able to have a very and I, you know, I kind of like, shaking I think he'd appreciate it, and I think he would think it's funny. Dallas- Right. Jon- And if I didn't, or if in some way harmful to his but to me, I mean, this of the other jokes that Dallas- Well, and that's a humor that we've explored off camera has been helpful to inform and we hear people all the time, the humor of Jesus in the show is one of their favorite parts, because him winking at something good can come from Nazareth, and you wink at him, Jon- And everybody's like (gasp). Dallas- yeah, yeah. Jon- And he's like eh it's fine. Dallas- Yeah, and the episode seven or eight, when Simon is saying, you know what's in my head, and you go well everyone it doesn't take God's wisdom. Simon- See, that's what I Jesus- Simon, everyone here most of the time. It does not take God's wisdom. Dallas- Those kind of bits, I think, help not only do they help alleviate I think they actually enhance and sometimes because it to Jesus. Hey, it's Dallas, I'm the and yes, season one of all eight episodes. They're available right now. You can look up The Chosen in and we're easy to find. You can download it, and and in fact it's unprecedented technology. You can connect to almost and you don't even need a subscription. So, I hope you'll check out right now.