[New Technological jazz music] [case plopping down] - Ooh, it's got a door. Greetings! And welcome to an LGR one where I am stepping outside of my comfort zone just a little bit and putting together to mess around with. And that is a mid one that makes use of Not only that but dual Pentium Pro CPUs. And I've wanted to put this together ever since I got this amazing dual CPU workstation And then really spurred by finding this incredible case online. I mean, just look at it, to me it just screams &quot;workstation.&quot; As does Windows NT Workstation 4.0, an operating system I've never used and I've always wanted to dive into. So that's what we're gonna do. We're gonna build a Windows with an awesome case, and I'm sure a bunch of and I'm gonna mess up all along the way 'cause I've never really dealt much with this kind of hardware. But before we do that, let me show you kind of what I'm going for and that is specifically one of these symmetric from late '95 to late 96 ish, dual CPU systems like the HP It's pretty much the that we'll be building, the kind of thing that would've cost at least $11,000 back in 1996. And that was for a system and a two gigabyte hard disk. We're gonna be pretty much in '96 with this build, so it would've cost a lot Good grief, the processors alone. Those would be between 1,300 and $2,000 for just one of them. And we're going with two! Let's go ahead and take that's enabling this. All right, so this is the beast to go with from late 1996. Yeah, this is an Intel PR440FX or at least some version of it. This is one with, as you can see, dual Socket 8, PGA 387 CPUs. And installed in there are two And in case you're unaware, the Pentium Pro is from late 1995, the first of the P6 And is kind of the which, the Xeon was introduced with the Pentium II Xeon in '98. And of course that continues to this day as Intel's and y'know, higher end non-consumer And obviously, two can be or symmetric multiprocessor support. And I gotta give a huge for hooking me up with this awesome board. He intended to use it but never got around to it and it's very much I mean, just look at all of this. It's such a loaded board in terms of integrated features and ports, but I mean it's already got a ton of ram. I seem to remember 128 when he sent this to me, but that looks like a lot more than that so we'll have to figure The max supported RAM is 512 megs. That's insane for 1996. All the ports and interfaces we'll take a closer look at those. It is known as some by ICS, Toshiba, and Gateway. So, used in some different systems. Officially supports and apparently has... Well, this is interesting. &quot;Trouble booting from CD-ROM on IDE, use a bootable floppy or a SCSI device.&quot; Eh, I don't see that being a big deal. So let's just start with the rear I/O. So we've got a couple of PS/2 for keyboard and mouse, parallel, serial, probably a spot for another serial on some versions or something, a little empty area there. Couple of USB 1.1 ports, 10/100 ethernet, some Intel Ether Express thing. And an integrated sound chip with game port and microphone, your normal ports there. It is a Crystal Audio a Crystal CS4236. Not a bad little chip, although it will need drivers in things like DOS, but I don't anticipate doing Even got a little wavetable CD-ROM and microphone. Anyway, as for slots, we have four PCI slots and then this bottom area is shared between one of those PCIs and 16-bit ISA. Nice to have that. Pretty dusty board, but otherwise it's looking great in terms of capacitors and no damage, nothing visible anyway. Yeah, our four RAM slots populated with... whatever these are. Kingston modules. It's EDO RAM. ECC I think is what it needs, We'll see what that is if we can get it working. It's supposed to work but we'll see. CR-2032 battery, a bunch of jumpers and doing all the chipset stuff. I thought this was great when I saw this. It has onboard SCSI through an Adaptec 7880 SCSI controller. Awesome to have. Piezoelectric beeper has tape over it. I don't want that, I wanna be able to hear it. There we go. Anyway, also integrated And it is just nice to have and bunch of front panel connector pins, including this one. I just noticed infrared. I almost put this in that I did last year, but decided to put some in there instead. Yeah, just a beige five and a that gives you an infrared blaster, wirelessly communicate Yeah, we'll have to put this in there. Bunch of interesting power near the dual Pentium Pros. So we got this 5-volt This is a VRM or voltage regulator module. So just making sure that the Pentium Pros I mean, we really just need to add a graphics card of some kind, I mean that's about it. We could swap sound as well, maybe I will. But we're gonna try probably see how that goes. I have a lot of questions about this 'cause I haven't actually used this before or really this exact type of setup at all. This is beyond the normal that I typically make a build from, and that's why this is so exciting. Speaking of exciting, let's take a little bit of Oh yeah, on a roll with this build, you can probably guess I mean, it's got wheels, it's got this like smoky glass. Well, it's not glass. It's like acrylic, but yeah, smoky-looking And just a whole bunch of these interesting buttons Some LEDs here. But yeah, it's just the overall aesthetic I love. As soon as I saw this thing on eBay, I'm like, &quot;I gotta have it.&quot; I don't actually know who It is the only one of It is all metal. This is metal. That's metal. It's just metal all around. It's extremely heavy and just fantastic while not being like this This is technically a mid tower, but they get a lot bigger than this. But really just the fact Like what says &quot;professional Unfortunately, this one's broken. In fact, they're all so I'm probably gonna replace it. Well, yeah, there we go. All the wheels are gonna get replaced. But yeah, other than that and some cosmetic scuffing here and there, it's in really good shape. And yes, it does have in there already and a bunch of cards and things, which I don't plan to use any of this, at least not today. I mean, maybe the power supply if that turns out to be okay. But I think this is a Pentium 4 system of some kind that's in there. Let's build in particular is but I don't think that's I don't actually know who made the case. All I see on there is this. So if everybody knows who made it, tell me. It does actually have a which I guess I'll just leave in there. We need a three and a half and a CD-ROM anyway, but also has this Tandberg SLR drive, this is a tape backup system. 25 gig tapes, 50 gig compressed, SLR50. QIC format or &quot;Quick,&quot; I think that's just I've mentioned other sizes of that before. Yeah, so there's some good stuff in here in terms of like recovery drivers and file system disks, whatever, LONE-TAR Airbag, Team 1 All kinds of stuff. 2002 is when most of these are dated. Really not sure exactly what this did. &quot;SCO Unix Server Configuration Worksheet.&quot; Teleflora Technologies. Yeah, the hard disk is long gone, but there's some clues as There was the original Not Teleflora, Team 1 Systems made it. Teleflora Technologies was the company that bought it 22 years ago. I'm gonna have to look up Well, this is a fascinating Here is the building that this computer was this Teleflora kind of nondescript place in Paragould, Arkansas. Don't know if they're still but apparently they're all over the place. Teleflora is a floral wire service company which brokers orders to So they're like the that bring you the stuff locally. Subsidiary of The and they're like a $4 billion behind Fiji Water and POM juice, and a bunch of other stuff. But Teleflora Technologies in particular, they do software, not only POS software, your point of sale things, Dove POS, but apparently something called Eagle and bits of software and to florist inventory and Well, anyway, I don't know what our exact computer was doing at the Teleflora Arkansas, but I just like to imagine that this was the person using it. He looks like he knows Unix. But yeah, back to the case, though. And it is clearly pretty dirty, had a rather dust-filled They at least gave it some Nothing going out the back of it. I guess it was just supposed to go through the power supply. In terms of what it is, it seems to be a pretty for a Pentium 4 kind of at least that's what I thought. I did actually test this out. Well, now I feel kind of bad about replacing the motherboard 'cause check this thing out. - [Computer] &quot;No IDE hard disk detected.&quot; - [Clint] Yeah, the BIOS talks. I have never run across that before. - [Computer] &quot;System - [Clint] Yeah, no more worrying about deciphering boot code beeps. It just talks to you and Yeah, this setting right here, Speech Post Reporter. [amused laugh] Apparently, it was a thing. I guess ASUS did it, this is an ASUS board. Anyway, maybe it's more I've just literally never heard of this and I think it's awesome. Yeah first things first, gotta test out this motherboard. Closest ATX power supply should do. A little power button. Thankfully, most of the pinouts on the motherboard. And then in terms of graphics, this is not what I'm gonna go with But, again, just whatever was closest by to test real quick. It's an ATI Mach64-something PCI. Okay. See how this goes... [board powers on, silently] Mm! All right! Not getting any power to Bet you this is the wrong cable. Yeah. Yep, that's totally the wrong cable for this particular power supply. I'll try this one. Ah, there we go. See what kind of RAM we get. At least 128 megs but I'm figuring out good then more. Yeah, those fans aren't as loud or grindy-sounding as I Who knows? Those bearings tend to go bad in those. Oh yeah, 512. Sweet. Built-in SCSI is neat to see. There you go. Yeah. Time and date's actually correct still. So, assuming that has been There's no way the original Yeah, two Pentium Pros, 200 megahertz, and so many integrated ports and things. Seriously everything Oh yeah, and I guess the video is working 'cause we've got video... Dude, this is awesome. So yeah, I feel free to continue First, let's get this [laid-back cleansing jazz tunes] Well, there's that. Pretty much the first thing that the CPU cooling I might actually replace these fans. I'm certainly going to Plus I just gotta admire these beautiful Little label came off, but... Would you look at that? It's just a beautiful thing. Wow. So we have a Compaq sticker there. So I wonder if this was one of a Compaq build. Actually, it was Gateway on The Retro Web site. Maybe there were some Compaq ones as well. Maybe this is just pulled Who knows? But either way, this is so than a regular Pentium of the time, which looks like this for comparison. Still a lovely thing but, man, compared to the Pro? This still feels really special. That's still relatively fresh. It probably was fine, but I wanna redo it myself anyway. I've got Threadrippers and all these crazy modern But it's just one of those thought like, &quot;Oh man, Pentium Pro? Who in the world would ever Certainly not me. Certainly not two of them! This is so cool. And I'm fully aware that to do like, anything with this [laughs] in the grand scheme of things. So, for what I had in mind are some of these certainly a bit taller, but that is fine. And you have a three-pin connector there, so we should be able to to the fan headers of the motherboard and not have to do this Molex thing. Yeah, taller but definitely and hopefully speed controlled. Well, my deck doesn't currently exist and it's raining outside so I'll just dust it from here. [air compressor sounds] Yeah, thankfully, not just a light... dusting. Well, how does this work? This is awkward trying to with this hole, which lines up and that hole, and and then another one down there while also keeping this to the side. Ah no, the other side came off. What the heck? Wow. Don't like that! Gotta do it again. [flustered chuckle] Why? There's probably a better way to do that but I don't care. It's done now. Heck yeah, looking nice and refreshed. Almost ready to put in the case. So about this casters situation. This one is straight up and these others all have... Well, this one doesn't. The other two have little I don't think that's actually So it'd probably be best to just replace this entire unit, like the base and the I don't know. I might be able to find or somewhere local. Here we go. There we go. Put one of these suckers on there. That's why I was concerned about the bases are all gonna be larger than I've seen online. Something like this would be perfect, but they have a stem already in there. I mean, I don't need one but you know, it's uh... Trying an office supply store... This place looks sadder and These are pretty much But they already have... Yeah, they don't have a base. Just the stem. Least they got plenty of blank DVDs and CDs. Yep, eh, blegh! That was a waste of time. And this is why most of the to actual stores in my area. This took an hour to and got nothing to show for it. [unnecessary echoing fart sound] All right, well! A couple days later and yeah, I finally was able to source some It turns out this is not so it's 1 3/16 by 2 inches. Grainger Industrial Supply had these that looked very close. The vast majority of things or just slightly larger But yeah, that looks close enough. And these only cost $4.20 each. Unfortunately, I wasn't able to find any with like, braking latches but I'll just be sure The more annoying thing is that they don't really fully turn around without getting stuck. The swivel is mounted higher up on the stem area or the plate. And so, yeah, they just sort And I did use the extra plate to give it just a little bit more, but it wasn't enough. You can see that these just have a little so might get some washers It'll do for now. Oh yeah, that's feeling more sturdy. Oh, move on to the cleaning, actually disassembly and They hot glued all the front wires in. Aughh, it's all hot glued! I think that's the one card These three cards that they've added are as are the front panel headers, also this tape around both sides of most of these cards. These I'm worried about 'cause I don't want to I like this motherboard. I really should have tried to use IPA or something but... too late! Finally, we are free. And now we can start the All right, I spent another more deeply with some more hands-on sprays and rags and all that and most of it didn't record 'cause I didn't press Anyway, it's pretty clean now. About the only other thing I want to do at some point is In fact, I got another These are just 80 mil fans. Got a number of standoffs in there, but definitely need some Also don't have a rear I/O plate, at least not yet. That tape drive is actually SCSI, so... don't need the card the other one had, since we have them built Dang it. I should have done the While I don't have all too many one that comes to mind that I do have a couple of from 1995, or '96 in the case And yeah, it's a card that was available in two and four megabyte this one being a two. And while it could do some it was very much advertised and 2D Windows GUI acceleration, and full motion video, and high refresh rates, You know, one of those. I happen to have one of these which has that expansion header filled up and this is another one from 1996. I don't know if this is I don't know what module is on there. I haven't tested these and I've always been curious. Just doing a real quick test here to see what happens And unfortunately, its power it is not doing anything. This little Flex ATX one though that I was using earlier That works fine. [short beeps] Ehh, the voltages seem decent. I've tested all the But yeah, it's just not happy with the combination the Daggum marginal crap. So I just have the floppy drive connected... get nothing at all, and took that out... Yeah, starts right up. So, guess I'm gonna use one of my spares. And yep, it's got all the good voltages. Yeah, that works perfectly fine with the floppy drive connected. So yeah, swap out whatever was in there. Ah, it's a Sparkle Power, FSP-300. It's not a but this front plate just All right, so obviously and I've got a few choices and you got SCSI hard drives, IDE, well those are SATA drives. But a lot of IDE drives as well, many of which are era-appropriate. These are laptop drives, but I'm thinking something or at least bigger. I have a few of these five Yeah, these are Quantum I don't know, '96 to '98 or so. And I have a few of them. I don't know if they all work fully. I have powered them on, they sound amazing. It'd be great to get one Guess we'll have to try All right, gonna try one of the Quantum Bigfoot TX. We'll see if it works before [fans, HDD whirring] [Tandberg tape drive noises] Got some interesting But yeah, Quantum Bigfoot detected, so is the CD-ROM. Cool. I guess it's time for an operating system. So we need something to take advantage of these dual 32-bit processors. And it's not a gaming rig so we're not going with I considered like, some version not this one but like, 4.0. But no, Windows NT Workstation Plus I've always wanted to try it out. Yeah, I thought about version 3.5. We've got a nice sealed copy there. Also have some copies of NT Server, but it's not really what I think, for what is effectively an NT 4.0, that makes the most sense. And plus, again, I've always Not this copy though, not yet. I have some other plans. I'd like to get into deeper with that one. So for now, I'm just gonna We've ended up with a number Anyway, there we go. There's two CDs. There's that! NT Workstation Which this one had as well, adding like, the Y2K and Anyway, here we go. Yeah. Far as I know, this should be a bootable CD-ROM, but there was that note about this maybe not being able to boot from faster, newer CD-ROM drives on this particular motherboard. So we'll see. I haven't even tested [keyboard clacking] [PC beeps] Ahh! Weird. [PC beeps] Trying a different CD-ROM and that one doesn't work either. So, not a bootable CD. I wonder if it was supposed which might be in here. I don't know. I've definitely seen some I'm gonna try one of those. All right. Floppy drive is reading. Guess that answers the question whether or not the drive works. And at least we've got a setup here. So, OEM copy probably just Hmm, multiprocessor kernel, 512 megs. But &quot;one system processor,&quot; you'd think it'd say &quot;two.&quot; That's a familiar screen. Curious if it'll find that SCSI tape drive... Oh there we go! All right. So, MPS Multiprocessor PC. I don't actually know what MPS stands for so, just going with that. We got Microsoft Mouseport Mouse. It's just a PS/2 Microsoft Mouse. I don't know, man, just let it do its thing. Delete the partition. I guess there was Who cares? Okay, &quot;cannot format the partition because it's too large...&quot; Why? Didn't think NTFS had that limitation. All right, well, it's letting I'm not seeing anything about like disk sizes being In fact, it's just like... &quot;Ah, whatever. Just put it on whatever.&quot; I guess we'll just have two partitions. One two gigs and one 3.8 ish. Interesting. So it looks like NT4 during the text portion of setup. And of course, that's limited to four gigs so you can't go any bigger than that, and then it converts it to NTFS later. How odd. I guess that was successful. Nice. There we go. &quot;Two system processors.&quot; That's what I was hoping to see. All right, so now it's doing That's interesting. Yeah, just having never done this before, I don't know what I'm doing. All right, this is very Oh, I don't know what we're Again, very familiar-looking things. We'll just do all those. We got games, including Pinball. Interesting. I didn't know that Space Yeah, at the moment, we don't have any but I would love to do that at some point. And I guess the mouse works. Nice. MGA. Yeah, that Matrox Millennium found and just put it in True Color immediately? That's awesome. Oh heck yeah, dude! Go up to -- whoa, whoa. 43 Hertz interlaced up which I believe this actually Not the display but the All right, installed successfully. Oh, I like that. &quot;Welcome to Windows NT. Did you know anything?&quot; Nope, I don't know anything! Okay, so we don't have sound going or at least there's no icon. So far, very Windows 95 except for all the things that Administrative Tools. Wow, that is amusing to Again, it feels familiar and yet not. Strange in-between and 2000, XP and all that. Application performance. Dude, all these things. Oh we got all this stuff! Oh, I got tape devices. That's awesome. I'll have to get a tape. All these neat things. MS-DOS Console, devices. Yeah, I was wondering where that was. Okay. Whoa, whoa, this is not Oh my goodness. How do we get to just like, the hardware? What's in here? It's like using a computer I don't know what I'm doing... This is so cool. Definitely looking forward to doing a more in-depth Windows NT video 'cause I got a lot to learn it seems. Oh we do have our classic screensavers. Pretty much the normal selection. You got 3D Maze. Nice. That's running darn smooth and quickly. Ho-ho my goodness! Doesn't know what to do with all the speed! All right, well, I'm gonna to actually do things like or just look at drivers or devices at all. &quot;Now safe to turn off your computer.&quot; That's different... I'm used to the whole Windows 95 Anyway, this is fun! Okay, I'm gonna screw around. [3D Pinball startup sound] So yeah, this has been an of really mostly screwing up. Messing around with things Because it's so darn similar to different versions of Windows I've used, and yet it's different enough in the things that it has. That's been a lot of the that I've run across. It's like, not having a or figuring out how the heck You can do it directly or for like sound, for instance. You have to go into devices directly and do add right here Not only that, but, of course, finding for things like the sound, which was kind of an And I went through probably a dozen different driver versions And really it all came down to the fact that every single driver website and archive I was finding, well, they might have mentioned supported on that driver version. For this specific Crystal sound chip, it simply was not. And eventually, I found a on some BBS archive and finally found the of the thing that I needed I also added like a USB stack to this because I do have USB ports and NT4 supports it, as long as you add the And in theory I did, but when I was installing oh, your system has more than one processor and the drivers do not support So that's another fun But yeah, you know what, we've got MIDI, a software synth. [CANYON.MID plays] I mean, it's not amazing but it's here. Not bad for FM emulation. Y'know, it's been pretty good sound for all the Windows things Oh yeah, not to mention we do and shutdown down sound for NT4. [startup and shutdown sounds play] Forward or reversed, it sounds great no matter what. And we do have 3D acceleration of a sort, but my goodness, it's the card that it is, with not full OpenGL support. Anyway, it does pretty darn good in terms of running stuff like Photoshop and your productivity applications. I do like this task manager that is very much reminiscent of later versions of Windows. Two different processors there. We can uh... I don't know, I had this going earlier. Yeah! Look at that skier, Low resolution skier. What is this at? 481 by 321. Let's put it up to like 4,000 or something and then just, yeah, let it do its thing. The power of dual Pentium Pros! I actually don't know if this really takes advantage of it. Photoshop 5.5, no clue. But you can see the CPUs like... I mean. I guess it's doing, I don't know, two And look at all the RAM we're using. Holy nuts. There we go. So much higher res. Look at that... Just beautiful. And of course, stuff what this is made for, right? Oh man, I gotta say though, this is so speedy as of things I've tried like this I mean, I don't know. I've never really used I really don't have much to base this on, but it feels extremely fast and responsive and just like it's barely even trying. &quot;Throw whatever you want to at me.&quot; It feels like a workstation. It really does. Whether that's down to NT or the hardware, the combination of things, I don't know, but this feels so speedy I really like just using NT4 here. Obviously, it will get with some things, but even this, just loading that all in. That's great. Man, I really don't know how to use the AutoCAD at all, but I do know how to render a scene. The sun, evening, I assume Yeah, render that. Anyway, this does take You can see right here. It's going. It's doing some things, but again, it doesn't bog down anything in the system, man. You can just keep on doing Multitasking to an insane degree and that's insane to me. Like, being used to Y'know, it just does whatever I've been thrown at it. And I haven't had any crashes other than weird driver issues. But yeah, there we got a We got Photoshop going over here and all this multitasking. Hmm, preemptive! However... Okay, let's talk about DOS stuff just a teeny tiny tad. [devious chuckle] Because it doesn't have DOS. This is Windows NT. And I believe this is It's just a command prompt! It has the DOS logo, but it's like in Windows 2000 or XP or beyond or whatever, it's just &quot;CMD.&quot; It's not *DOS* DOS, like 9x. So for one thing, you do not get any Sound Commander Keen 4 doesn't detect it at all because it just has no way to see it. Unlike on 95 or whatever, it's just gonna pass it through. All we get is PC speaker. And I don't know how but... it's a little slow. It feels floatier and sluggish and just off if you're used it's just off in some way. So let's get Crystal Caves going here. I don't know. It's 90% there. One thing that it's incredibly Again, we get no sound support You have to install something But yeah, look how slow this is going. But yeah, something like some Sound Blaster and AdLib emulation. I just haven't tried that yet. So again, it's something It's like moon gravity or something. It just feels weird. It's like nyeearohh. Okay, well look how slow [imitates explosion] Yeah, the gravity is weird. Everything is slower. I don't know if that's just an NT thing or this system thing or what, but it's not good. That being said, who cares? This is not a gaming system. It's for work. And Quake II! [pistol firing, explosions] Obviously, we're running No kind of 3D acceleration but we do have it, technically. We're kind of like being This GPU, this Matrox It's not great... for anything, but it's particularly not That being said, DirectX, Direct3D, all that kind of stuff. I think 3.0 is as high as NT4 which is what I have on here right now. So there's also OpenGL and this is an OpenGL capable game. So let's go to that. And let's put it down to the [game horribly skipping] We might get like, one And again, this is the best I can You put it on 640x480, I think it's like one So, a lot of this really is this &quot;&quot;&quot;GPU&quot;&quot;&quot; that we have in there. Okay, something like Quake II from '97, pretty much a no go, but something like Age of Empires from '97, eh it's just fine. Full motion video! Yeah, I think this uses DirectDraw, DirectPlay, something like that. It's not a 3D accelerated game. Unfortunately, I don't have the CD-ROM audio playing, none of the red book stuff because the audio cable is not connected. And I guess this isn't one of those that can run the audio through IDE. I don't know. Either way, I don't have music. - [Villager] &quot;Erectus.&quot; - [Clint] Hmmrectus over there, man. I've been playing so much Manor Lords lately, it's weird to go back to this. I'm like, &quot;How do I You just click on them directly. Anyway, runs great as expected. Honestly, I would be more One thing I am surprised doesn't work is this NASCAR Racing Matrox which specifically makes use But it is unfortunately a DOS game and it runs into this memory error no matter how I configure Nothing makes a difference. It just gives the same So that's unfortunate. That's one of the few things But something else that uses RenderWare Animated Knight Yeah *that* Criterion, they had the RenderWare And Matrox was one of those companies that I guess made use of it or they certainly had the with Matrox Millennium cards. And yeah, look at that. Realtime 3D and shading And that came with the CD-ROM Just downloaded a copy Also on that CD was this: One of those delightful programs that comes with a bunch of 3D assets and things for you to and do some very basic 3D, not modeling but like, Like, oh, you can just And then let's see, we'll have uh... I don't know what the heck that is, man on the moon, a computer model. Can import like 3D Studio You can't really edit but there are some attributes here and there on some of them. I don't know. I haven't messed around Yeah, you can change the Okay, let's give this... there is a woodgrain pattern so we can make it like And let's do a preview snapshot and check that out. I'm not sure I'd call that woodgrain. It's probably scaled incorrectly. But, dude, I love this stuff. A perfect use of an expensive I gotta say. So I have this other scene here that I was slapping together And yeah, we can also do like ray tracing, not real time, but in the Bryce 3D sense. And yeah, a lot of this kind of reminds me of something like Bryce. But yeah, ray traced with shadows, we can do that. The one we rendered just &quot;realistic.&quot; Got all kinds of different settings here. I mean, we can really just I mean, this would go all night if we cranked up the settings a ton. And it can also do animations. We're not gonna do that, again, that would take forever But yeah, let this do its thing. Getting that CPU up and at 'em. [SMP-induced chuckle] Oh I don't know, it's just... It's neat to see something powerful from the mid nineties, do powerful mid nineties things! [jazz intensifies] And there we go, a beautiful ray traced image with excess reflections Oh man, we gotta trace all those rays. Seven and a half minutes to make that 400 by 300 pixel image, and we can save that as a bitmap. Oh yeah, look at that dithering. Could have rendered it without dithering, but I don't know, I kind Ooh. And you know what, we do have one more thing We've gotta test this Not sure, hope it works because I bought some tapes. Some lovely labels there. Yeah, that is hefty. Much larger than the in, what was that, the J. Bond 386? Same idea. Quarter inch tape. [magnetic chuckling] [drive whirring, tape winding] Golly, it sure would be It took me so very long to find the driver for this because, again, Windows for this specific drive. From what I gather, there's just some backup program that you can use it with, probably this. Tandberg has software as well, which I don't have. &quot;Blank tape,&quot; I'm assuming that means it's detected it. So let's just try to back up Duke 3D because that's the kind of thing I do. All kinds of different backup types and log files, whatever. This seems pretty good to me, so... Oh nice. [drive buzzing] Don't know if this is the Oh nope, nope, that's a problem. Ahh, unrecognizable data. Tape device reported an error on a request to write the doobadoo. Just try to eject that. See if the tape is still Yeah, totally is. Maybe we just need to Nah, same error. Well, I don't know if or a tape thing. I do have another tape so we're gonna try that. Ah man, what a shame. Probably a drive issue but could be tape, could be drivers. I don't know. Anybody has any ideas, let me know. But for now I do have I also have some new intake fans. I'm not gonna turn this thing off. Let's just leave it going. That comes off surprisingly easily. And yeah, here's where our fans are, including some really nasty old filters. Oh, mm, how tasty. Get rid of that. That'll need some cleaning and replacement and as will this. So, two 80 millimeter fans behind there and then these they So... it's uh pretty substantial again, metal for this whole thing. It's beefy. [vacuum sucks] There's not much going on here. Just plug directly into that Ah, although we don't have anywhere to put those screws in on the side here 'cause that's not how it's designed. It's got like these rails that mount to the side of drives. That's probably the most There's some behind Yeah, there we go. I'ma hafta try to duplicate that, 3D print some more or something, cuz... yeah, it's kind of necessary to put anything else in there. Oh, what the heck. Smacking up against the hard drive. I'm not even gonna mess with this for now. I'm just gonna put it back. I just took all this apart and I'll put it back in here as it was because it turns out that I cannot move this because the cable isn't The one that I have in there, it will not go further. It'll go a little bit higher. So I could put the hard drive up here, but that would mean putting the infrared like down here somewhere. And that just bothers me pattern-wise, I don't know. I want the infrared right here. I don't want to put it down farther. I don't even know if it'll This is for 95 and 98, I don't know. Tired of drivers! Just do the dang fans. Ugh. Good enough. Dang it. And yeah, I really didn't want to turn this thing off until I'm done with this video. Let me show you why What's going on is it tends to do this anytime it's starting up after being shut down properly. Just says &quot;OS load in progress&quot; I can't control+alt+delete, or do anything. It just kind of hangs, even though the cursor's still blinking. Yeah, it's fine just restarting. But shutting it down and then powering back on? Yeah. Why does it do this? I don't know. So far, the only way I've been able to get it a boot again is to run through the repair, with the floppy disks. And that's three different disks adds like 10 minutes every time I want to start the system back up. It's really annoying. If anybody has any ideas let me know. And I am thoroughly done with this build. For the moment anyway! It's been fun but and bizarre, and curious. You know what, it's just been an experience Like off and on, of course. But yeah, this has been I don't know. Working on other projects in between and now I'm preparing So anyway, figured I'd call it here and just ask you for your input. Like, what did I do wrong? 'Cause I know I did some things wrong. And I've learned some and I'm still confused about some things. Like a big one is that booting issue after doing a proper shutdown, I can restart all day long. I've had this thing on now to prevent the hitting shutdown because it's just so annoying to have to go through that whole restoration process for Windows NT every time. I don't wanna start it up from a cold power off kind of situation. But yeah, in terms of ideas as well, I'd love to hear some because this is a fascinating Not just Windows NT, but also the dual Pentium Pros, but also the video card. I have so many ideas to continue just cramming in this video, but this has gone on for a very long time. So let me know your ideas. Matrox Millennium stuff, dual Pentium Pro stuff, Windows NT stuff. And I do still plan to do a kind of more involved NT3 and but that'll probably be I don't know. Anyway, this is just where I'm kind of I had fun, but I'm frazzled and I gotta call it here. [jazz tunes play, NFS2 gameplay commences] And if you enjoyed this kind of all over the place build video, then well check out some others. I have done some others and there are always new LGR things in the works for the future. And as always, thanks for watching!