Andy Warhol was born three times: the first The second time as a commercial artist, Raggedy After a failed assassination, he was reborn cultural revolutionary remembered worldwide Child number four to a poor immigrant family, Depression, the story of Andy is the story extra obsession, drugs, and murder sprinkled Bringing Modern Art to the Modern Age It is impossible to overstate his contributions, of seeing. The idea that a mass-market object could be it's looked at is such a profound rejection we no longer even recognize it as revolutionary, New Truth: The audience decides what is art.. Just as much as democracy is a rejection of to the American perspective are so ingrained Art is attention. "In the future we'll all be famous for The term &quot;superstar&quot; is one he coined, to for camera fodder. Andy understood better than any of his contemporaries they matter, that the trappings of consumer Even in television and movies, every behind the evil studio money-men. It's not enough to enjoy a piece of entertainment, titanic struggle or it doesn't have any weight The drama gives it significance, no one would conflict between Joss Wheadon and a bunch opportunities. That's the drama which inspired Andy to paint to crumble. That's why he painted his Death &amp; Disaster Warhol's most expensive work [Show Silver America loves an underdog, and there is no against yourself. It's our hunger for celebrities which drives along, turning a silk screened headshot into equal parts relic and lecture on the cyclical The same hazard which would later temporarily A Pale Boy from Pittsburg Andy grew up in the shadow of the St. John is known for its huge and ornate wall of gold-leafed [Show icons] With their unreadably beatific the genesis for Andy's experimentation with The worshipful quality of his portraits, how eternal, everything is here. You can trace every single one of his artistic There's a direct line between spending eight image of Mary and then thirty years later, leaf. The conflation of consumption and worship is the language America uses to express desire They eat what they worship, celebrity is Communion. Success in America is being incorporated into milk becomes bone and teeth. Andy is the calcium of modernity, that's In the third grade, he had to take a temporary St. Vitus' Dance plagued him with involuntary He would struggle to write his name on the him so much that he simply refused to return. It's this period of affliction and sickness To keep him occupied, his mother provided from fan groups, and plenty of paper for experimentation, basement for his photography. Warhol began collecting autographed pictures, set. To incentivize creation, his mother would work of art. This motivation clearly stuck with Andy, because classes through elementary and high school, in commercial art. Success is a Job in New York After graduating in 1949, Andy Warhola moved He was always withdrawn, even before making A shy boy with a large nose and an inconsistent address through surgery. He was insecure about everything but his talents. He quickly attracted respect from the art and the unique appeal of his self-developed printmaking using a wet ink drawing pressed Perhaps more so even than his art, Andy developed In addition to his physical uniqueness, his and his art was delivered in crumpled paper In a phrase, he stuck out. Glamour Magazine was the first to commission &quot;What is Success?&quot; Perhaps accidentally, he was credited as Warhol, complete. His whimsical style soon won him contracts &amp; Co. His upwards trajectory only increased when, his apartment to inform him that she had sold Almost immediately, they start collaborating friends. She designed and hand-wrote a record label won an award. No matter how much Andy may have worried about trendy friends, they lived and worked together As hardworking as her son was, her unique that brought him so much praise and success. However, this wasn't enough for the ambitious More than security, he wanted to be respected He wanted the world to know why he mattered. Boys &amp; Other Headaches It's around this flourishing point in his attraction, even if fulfilling his ambitions His first kiss didn't come until 25, and he duties. After being rejected during a trip to Honolulu, around the world with a boy and not even received Most biographers are content to say that he arrested, but the truth is somewhat more convoluted. The difficulty Warhol had with relationships habit of incorporating voyeurism and celibacy academic speculation as to his possible asexuality. He himself claimed to be a virgin in 1980, former lovers and that time he sought treatment It's an extremely Andy Warhol move to saturate its ultimate power. Negating sex in an era where it had never in which he stood out from the crowd, an observer 15 Rejections Based on the Friendship of Truman For those of you unfamiliar with New York's was a young literary hotshot who was in the managing to succeed in writing strictly on and someone elses' money. He was stylishly gay, beloved by the art world, He started leaving little illustrations in It eventually escalated to Warhol waiting through sheer insistence. It didn't work. Capote rejected him, later describing him nothing ever's going to happen to&quot; and &quot;a A rejection like that can sure make a fellow Undaunted, Warhol turned this rejection into Based on the Works of Truman Capote. Despite being masterful works of flowing, This set the pattern for his early forays to earn gallery space. In the sharpest possible contrast to his continued owners and art dealers refused to help him Before he dismantled it utterly, there was and fine artists, [said while maintaining succeed in fine arts don't need to work for [Intentional, awkward pause.] Thankfully, that's no longer the case today. [Even longer, even more intentional awkward But even moreso than that, Andy was gay and Granted, &quot;too gay for the New York art scene&quot; punchline is Louis CK masturbating, but this Then, the city was ruled by Jackson Pollock abstract impressionists. That's what art dealers and buyers wanted, of ink drawings, Studies for a Boy Book, there It scared people. But no matter how good his work was, everywhere swish, too camp, too weird, those same traits than he could handle. Pop and Circumstance While Warhol is the most widely known Pop He was inspired most directly by the work who both rose to prominence painting flat cultural detritus. Warhol set to work immediately, painting scenes advertisements. The work was not popular, even with Andy. There's a period of approximately fourteen fine art, and his first major success. In 1961, he painted two versions of a Coca-Cola human marks of creation, and the other without. Coca-Cola [2] was as sterile and hard-lined No trace of the artist remained, nothing human. In short, it blew the first one out of the His friends called it naked, savage, barren. Nothing of the painting existed between the shadows for the eye to hide in. He had found his style. Soup, There It Is! Murial Latow is the name of the woman who soup. When he asked her for ideas, she said simply, of money. you should paint something everyone sees every of soup.&quot; For Andy, Campbell's soup was more than just his workflow, it held a deep personal significance. During his childhood, his mother suffered for six weeks. Everyday she was gone, his older brother would him that his mother would be okay. That's what these cans represent, that's what to believe that his mother will be okay, taking Consumption becomes reverence, and through I was not exaggerating when I said that Andy soup can was a symbol of resurrection. It certainly resurrected his career, Warhol of Campbell's soup, and when they displayed Art movement to the west coast. Instead of waiting for the world of fine art instead. Taming the Silver Silkscreen August 1962 marks another revolution in his silkscreens in his paintings. The inconsistencies of his blotted lines are accidents of an artistic method reduced to He focuses first on Hollywood icons from his Liza Minnelli. Andy got started on his series of Marilyn eventually debuted them to huge public response. Using a still from the 1953 movie Niagara, her youth and joy, and through countless repeated the joyful smile into a bitter grimace, the No piece makes this more clear than the Marilyn next to a row of washed out and incomplete obvious. Not only does it resemble a film strip, but really capture how it feels to wear out the It's more than just death, it's the very public live through, the slow relegation to the b-roll Perhaps not coincidentally, this is also the own films. Eight hours of the Empire State Building vanishing sleeping, the kind of deliberately impenetrable out of film school. He also produced the campy and unlicensed imagine. Just two years later, Adam West's knowingly debuts with the POW! BAP! Batman TV and movie shows your parents remember. Though it was only ever displayed in galleries taking place in New York City and Hollywood actor like Adam West would absolutely have The influence is undeniable, and remains a Even Superheroes were not beyond the reach Can't Spell &quot;Factory&quot; Without U! In 1963, Warhol hired a friend to decorate and tinfoil, and the Silver Factory was born. To Warhol, Silver represented both the coming Hollywood's glamorous past. It also represented a mirror and narcissism. In short, it reflects now, it gives us what His entourage immediately starts using it stream of artistic creation and revelry which decade. It became the de-facto center of the New York Jagger, Salvadore Dali, Liza Minelli, William regulars. In one room, people were doing speed. In another, people were filming a music video Warhol would be making silk screens in one drag queens vamped. It was, in every sense, bacchanalian. And just like in the stories of the Bacchantes, the very party he cultivated. Never Trust a Playwright The central irony in the assassination of target, he was the understudy for his own Valerie Solanis stuffed the guns in her coat Maurice Girodas. She waited outside his apartment for three but lucky for him, he missed that particular Crestfallen but unwilling to abandon her plans He knew Valerie as the author of an extremely initially suspected her to be a police informant. She believed him to be part of a conspiracy been misplaced. When they arrived in his office, she drew She was preparing to execute an assistant turning herself over to police custody several She left behind a paper bag at the factory, a single sanitary napkin. The idea that the assassination of Andy Warhol or social critique has been discussed quite is obscene and confrontational, including organization it spawned, the Society for Cutting Shortly thereafter, many other artists, including Samson, would incorporate gunplay into their For a certain type of New Yorker, the temporary 60s. The ramifications of the shooting would linger is understandable considering he only survived and hand-massaged his heart. No one jumps back from that without a scar. He was required to wear a surgical girdle screen darlings he so admired in his childhood. Far from being shocked out of his semi-affected unreality of it all, remarking &quot;&quot;Before I half-there than all-there--I always suspected People sometimes say that the way things happen way things happen in life that's unreal. The movies make emotions look so strong and to you, it's like watching television--you Right when I was being shot and ever since, The channels switch, but it's all television.&quot; While this brought down the gate on the open-door regular was just getting started. He would spend much of the 70s hobnobbing 54, taking it all in as fuel for high-paying an actual Shah. He founded Interview, a celebrity interview For a normal person, that's a huge amount Most people never even get to paint a vizier, of the Exploding Plastic Inevitable, the orgy-cum-art felt like a living retirement. Rather than spending the final decade of his invented Today, Andy started collaborating arts scene, including Macklemore's personal For those of you who don't recognize the name, wrote a song about thrift shops. A shop is like a real life Amazon where they what you need. But I digress, Basquiat was a controversial of cranking out a huge number of visually he would sell for huge amounts of money. How soon the student overtakes the master! His final gallery showing would debut across da Vinci's Last Supper. Fittingly enough, The Last Supper was the delighted in, because he returned to traditional years. He and Basquiat produced well over a hundred features the face of Jesus painted across, Warhol still holds the record for most works In February of 1987, he died while recovering surgery. The public wake shut down large portions of next to his parents. He was 58. For someone who had lived through so much, dying due to a moment's accidental neglect Unfinished, like a silk screen with too little