Hi everyone, Kevin here today, we're going in Excel using data that's on multiple Here for example, I have order data for the by year on separate worksheets and some of the I want to analyze all of this data together. If you'd like to follow along, I've included a Let's check this out. Here I am in Excel and I Kevin Cookie Company using something called pivot before, it makes analysis really easy and you To get a really solid understanding of how pivot the top right-hand corner or down below in the to analyze all of it, I can copy the data from and I can even jump into another workbook, one aggregated workbook, but that's a lot So instead, we can use something called power thing that you have to ensure is that you have all tables on your different worksheets. To use power and all the way over on the left-hand side, Let's click on this dropdown that says there's an option that says launch power query power query makes it really easy to get to transform your data. And what does transform data and also format it in an automated way. I've included a video in the top right-hand corner how to use power query. In this video, we're worksheets into a pivot table. Let's click on query editor and currently it's empty in here. To change that, up on the home tab over on the Let's click on this and then go down to file. data from all sorts of different locations. You from different online services. There are many in data from different worksheets. So here I'll opens up the Windows file picker, and right here, worksheets. This is the workbook that I currently downloaded the sample workbook, you should and then click on import in the bottom right-hand and here I can see all of the different Here I have my 2020 tab and I can see all of 2021 and here's 2022. I would like to bring all Right up here, I can select multiple items. Let's data, 2021, and also 2022. With all of those right here, I can see that it pulled in all of that it's missing 2023, and it turns out that Let's go back up to new source, then click on workbook. Here, I'll select the 2023 workbook and I'll select this. And just like we did earlier, the power query editor, some of it from different workbook. And currently I have four different but I want to combine or aggregate all of this let's go over to append queries, then click on the queries as new. Let's select that. This opens queries together. There's an option where I can four. So, I'll select three or more tables. I'll select 2020, 2021 and 2022, and then pull I'll move it down the list. Here I have all of good progress. Here, I have a query that lists out Right now it's called append1, and that's not we have all of the different query settings and call this all years, since it is combining about Power Query is that you can transform filter out certain items, or maybe you want to data type for different columns, for example, for You can go through, make all of these different future, these changes will apply to that new data. learn about all of the Power Query capabilities, For now, this data is fairly clean and I don't corner, let's go up to close and load, and then dialogue asking me how I would like to import here. I want to view it as a pivot table. So, I'll on a new worksheet. Down here, let's click on but the sheet is currently called 2022 and that's and I'll type in all years pivot, just to really Let's now click into the pivot table and over on in the pivot table fields view. When you click on fields. Let's click into the all view, and here we have 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, and down at the with all of the years. Here, I can expand that, of the different column headers. Let's say I want I can take revenue and I'll drag that down into revenue across those four years was a little the cookie business is a good one to be in. Let's Over on the right-hand side, there's also a field it down to the rows and here I can now see the individual sheet and it's pulling it all together worksheets or even the workbooks changes, all of table. That's extremely powerful. Back over on the say that maybe I want to know who the customer was the customer ID and I'll drag it down to the top and the associated revenue. One challenge is much rather have the customer name. That's a If I go back to any one of these worksheets and I have the customer name included in any of these and within customers, there's a customer ID and of these worksheets with all of the order data, if only I could connect this customer ID in the the customer ID and the customer name. To do that, To turn it into a table, go to the top tabs and a table. When I hover over this, you'll also see control T. This opens up a dialogue that allows identifies all of the data and my table does have turned it into a table and currently the name let's give it a better name here. I'll double hit enter. That's a lot better. Next, let's within the pivot table view. Next, we need to data based on that customer ID that appears in To do that, let's go up to the top to pivot table there's an option that says relationships. With of that order data and the customer table. Let's click on new, and right here, I can now define the or this data model that we created earlier, and I will select that. Now that we've selected these these two tables and the one column in common I'll select the customer ID, and then in the ID. So that's how we connect these two items. these relationships, let's close out this window table customers. Let's expand that, and here I see into my pivot table and I'll remove the customer I'll collapse it down to the year, and now I the associated revenue. So that's how you can pull and even related data into one pivot table, so you It's extremely powerful. All right, well, maybe you could get around to visiting one watch more videos like this one, please consider