The 1:05 was an awesomely powerful weapon, and in the skies of Vietnam it was to become known as the One Man Air Force. The designer of the F105 was Alexander Kartveli, chief designer at Republic and no stranger to the concept of Big fighter aircraft, for he had been the designer of the World War Two Peak 47 Thunderbolt, the biggest single engined fighter at its day, which had been produced in large numbers and had proved itself a sturdy workhorse. Not only in its intended role as an air superiority or escort fighter, but as a fighter bomber in the Technical Support mission. More color based Project 63 the series of design studies have led to the 105 commenced in 1951 at the height of the Korean War, essentially as a privately funded update of. Public surf 84. The 84 had been developed as a jet Thunderbolt for the escort and tactical fighter bomber roles. In Korea, it proved not up to the escort role in competition with the Mig 15, but had deformed well in ground attack. The 84 straight wings were part of a very conventional overall design, and indeed the plains later manifestations exhibited swept wings more appropriate to the potential speed of the jet. But with the experience of career to guide them and the rapid pace of technological development to compel them, the design team soon realized that there were setting out to design A completely new plane. As the team at Republic was setting out on their project, their counterparts at the North American Company had just received US Air Force support for their F-100 Super Sabre first of the series of planes known as the Sanctuary Fibers. It would to cover the multiple fighter roles then perceived as the Air Force moved to supersonic capability. Starting life as a reworking of the successful F86 Sabre, the F100 was originally described as an air superiority fighter, but its latter variations added fighter bombing capabilities. With a maximum speed of 860 mph, the Hun was the Usaaf's first supersonic fighter and, particularly in a tactical support role, was to prove valuable in Vietnam. The next plane was the McDonnell F101 Voodoo, designed as a penetration fighter and escort fighter. The rapidity of development in aviation can be judged by the fact that, though ordered only 12 months later than the F100, the 101 had a top speed of 1100 mph. Again, the plane developed tactical capability in its latter marbles, and it was used extensively in Vietnam, most notably in photo reconnaissance. Third of the century fighters was the F-102 Delta dagger from General Dynamics and all weather interceptor commenced in 1950. Capable of 820 mph, it proved only a moderate success, but was naturally to develop to become the F106, which had a top speed of 1500 mph. The Lockheed Star fighter the F-104 ordered in March 1953, sought flight performance at all costs as an air superiority fighter. Basically a manned missile, the 1400 mile per hour 104 had a checkered career but has demonstrated amazing longevity as a tactical strike and reconnaissance aircraft. At Republic cock bellies team working on advanced Project 63 after a program that ran to 108 configurations and emerged with the design for a single engine, single seat tactical fighter bomber with the capacity to carry nuclear weapons in an internal Bombay. This Clyde the 1:05 A was given Air Force approval in September 1952, originally with the intention of mass production, but in the end only two were built. The 105 rounding up the century fighters was the first purpose designed tactical strike aircraft ordered for the United States Air Force. The perception of need for such a plane derived from a combination of Korean battlefield experience, geopolitics had intraservice competition between the strategic and tactical air commands of the USAF. To tech. The 1:05, in addition to opening up the parameters of their conventional role, brought with it the capability to carry nuclear weapons over a long range, with a corresponding rise in their prestige to rival that of the strategic command. The Tactical Air Command support of 105 was to prove vital to the project as the plane went through its difficult early years. Virtually all the technology and engineering of aircraft were being revolutionized at once in response to the myriad physical challenges inherent in the transition to the age of supersonic flight. And the F105 was to have plenty of developmental problems in the years ahead. But what made the huge fighter so special was its large internal capacity. The atom bombs, more reminiscent of drums than weapons, gave it a potency far beyond any competitor. So the F105A, significant breakthroughs in understanding the effects of transonic drag, together with some inherent deficiencies, had already seen the design superseded. It first flew over three years after the USAF go ahead, and by then its internal systems had changed beyond recognition. Also by then, manufacture of its replacement was under way. The 3rd F105 was the first of the B model. We see it here on the 26th of May 1956 as it taxis to its takeoff point for its first flight. This was the 1st 1:05 to have a power plant big enough to match its size and major external changes had also been incorporated, chief among which was the area ruling which had rescued the F-102 from its Dragons turbulence problems. This would be placed the straight lines of the A model with a slim hip over the wing. A messy, full peddled airbrake now dominated the previously cleaned lines of the engine exhaust and they had also been changes made to the air intakes, giving the Thunderchief its characteristic nostrils. A larger tail area had increased stability. These and other changes have resulted in a claim with the capacity to double the speed of SARM. Perhaps symbolically, this first flight was to be beset by almost fatal problems. It was intended that the flight be short, little more than a quick circuit, but when it came time to lower the wheels, there was no response from the nose wheel. Raising and lowering the wheels had no effect, but nose wheel would not budge. Rather than abandoned the plane, it was decided to attempt a wheels up landing and so the test pilot set the machine down on a long, dangerous slide across the salt. The plane came to a halt and emergency crews converged on the site in the slowly clearing dust. The crash was more than an intense embarrassment for a project that was already being scrutinised as excessively expensive and troubled by technical problems. However, it was still possible to argue that the problems were being solved in ways that consistently improved the overall capability of the plane. Even as simply a test program, the 1:05 was revolutionizing the understanding not only of the science of aviation, but the potentiality of tactical aircraft. The cause of the crash was soon identified in the new air intake controls, which at high thrust signings were jamming the wheel in position. A fairly simple thing to correct. While the thing that the crash demonstrated was something that those who flew the Thunderchief in action came to know and approve of its toughness. The plane was lifted, the undercarriage was lowered and the prototype was towed away to be mended. Rebuilt the plane, rejoined the test program as work progressed on tying together all the systems and ironing out the bugs in the components. The engineers were dealing with concepts and forces they could only barely control and overcoming the snags as they appeared. It's difficult to think of any other way that these problems, theoretical and practical, could have been kept up with in the intense scramble of technical development. In being the first playing capable of both air to air fighting and air to ground semi automatic weapons delivery, the plane relied on avionics packages far in advance of anything previously attempted. Among these advanced facilities were radar models for air search, contour mapping, terrain following, and automatic tracking of air and ground targets. Even in blind conditions throughout its life, the 1:05 was to almost constantly receive new and updated facilities, but even from the first, this was a plane that was far ahead of its time. The rebuilt pine was allocated to conduct the spin testing program and a spin recovery parachute was installed on the tail of the plane. This required removing a panel to afford room for the shoot and removing the air brakes so that, if needed, the shoot would be unimpeded. Trials on the shoots demonstrated that it worked satisfactorily. The aim of spin testing is to ensure that a plane can be recovered from a spin to normal slide, but once control has been lost it can be regained. Of course, the first thing to do in such a test is to lose control of the aircraft deliberately. Then the test pilot sits there while his plane plummets through the air for a specified duration, and then he attempts recovery. This is not work for the fainthearted. The emergency Spin recovery parachute was not, as the planes proved to have a natural tendency to level out after each revolution and the pilots were able to resume control fairly easily. However, the airframe still had to be tested, and so the trials went on. 47 times the pilots let go and watched the horizon slide away sickeningly as the plane commenced its fall. If you look tearfully here, you'll see a pillar of flame leaped from the tail of the plane as the engine stalls. Though the flight tests proceeded well, the technical problems persisted, with the engine and the avionics still unreliable. The uncertainty of performance was matched by a wider uncertainty about the future of the plane. The original expectation of large production had been amended to 37, then cancelled altogether in December 1953. A reinstated order in February 1954 was for 15 aircraft, but by September this had been cut back to three. In October, it was back to six. Parallel to this state of flux, the operational requirements for the new fighter had already been repeatedly amended before being first published in December 1954, and by April 1955 had been changed three more times. The men conducting the test series went on with their work, while uncertainty continued to shroud the future of the project. The 1:05's already considerable range had been augmented by the addition of external fuel tanks, and these two had to be tested to establish the effect they had on the plane, as well as to test the tanks themselves. Throughout my day 57 the testing went on, with the test aircraft logging many hours over the desert as the plane was slowly sorted out through multiple modifications. The pre service evaluations due for completion in November 1959 or do we eventually go on until March 1960? One of the specifications added in 1954 was that the F105 should be capable of inflight refuelling, another recent innovation already being widely used. With an aeroplane like the F105, this was a tricky proposition. For the fighter pilot to slow down to the same speed as the tanker, lift him with insufficient air flow over the wings to maintain lift. The top speed of the tanker and the lowest speed of the 1:05 were very close and as you see the fighter becomes very hard to manoeuvre, especially in the turbulence of the larger plane, and often stalls entirely. Attempts to alleviate the problem by adding jets to the tankers as yet to a B29 didn't help all that much. All supersonic fighters had trouble until jet tankers raised the speed of refuelling to safer levels. Although successful couplings were made, the system remained largely impractical, not due to any failure of the F105, but because of the inadequacies of the tankers. Having the drug trailed from the wingtip rather than from the tail of the plane removed the operation from the worst of the larger planes turbulence and facilitated matters somewhat, but the tendency to store remain. The equipment in use, the long drogos, did not help to make things any easier with the requirement for the pilot of the fighter to manoeuvre onto the drogue. Not until loose necessity was replaced by a system where he simply holds position in relation to the tanker, and the operator in the tanker directs the connection. Was refuelling truly a practical affair? The F105 was equipped with two types of refueling connector, and these were to see a lot of use in the Thunderchief's career. That at the end of 1954, Republic must have been wondering about the fate of the 1:05. But there are anxiety can have only been slightly alleviated by the bittersweet news they received in February 1955. The order was lifted back to 15, with allowance for the rest of the original 34 only if funds were available in the coming fiscal year. To add to this ambiguous news was the unsettling proviso that there be a fly off against the North American companies F10 7AN updated, high-powered and reequipped Super Sabre variant. And the 107 been compared to almost any other frame at that time it may ever performed it. However, the 1:05 was a rather special opponent, and the performance of the controversial big plane was beginning to quell the doubts about its worth. The revisions of the Thunderchief specifications had continued in a stream of expansions of its systems capability. At constant electronic renovation receded throughout the plane's development and its operational lifetime. The plethora of design changes meant that the 1st 1510 fives produced represented 5 distinct subtypes. Eventually there would have been 19. During the testing program, of course, the revisions of the plane meant that the trials were regularly extended. But normal flight testing programs were consistently completed with little trouble as the airframe behaved very well and had admirable fight characteristics. However, the electronics of the newly conceived and developing systems caused continuing delays as their performance was lifted to their supposed specifications. With the benefit of hindsight, we can appreciate what a fine aircraft was evolving in the process. But at the time, eyebrows were being raised and there was considerable skepticism about the plan. On the 28th of May 1958, three years later than originally expected, but USAF took delivery of its first operational one, O fire. Fittingly, it was the only one of its subtype. The Air Force fighter pilots had been disappointed to hear that their new mount was in fact a rather large bomber, and had christened the plane in advance rather disparagingly as the late slate from the fat or plain thought. Now they got their hands on it for the first time and immediately changed their minds. The nickname stuck, and thud in particular came to mean F105. But no longer in any derogatory sense. The big plan was to be universally popular with all those who flew them. Not only did it handle and perform as a fighter, but it picked the combination of punches that was truly awesome. But what if I could carry 14,000 palms as that very wide range of external stores, including all normal bombs, rockets or rocket fods, cannon pods, electronic card images, facts, data, surface missiles and Sidewinder air to air missiles? But almost as the reason for its existence, the funder chief also had a bomber. To minimize supersonic drag, the Bombay doors retracted neatly into the pipe. To control the injection of the bomb, both for accuracy's sake and to ensure the bomb was clear of the Ezra, it was pushed down with an animatic frag. The rap was strong enough to be used as a jerk to load the baby if there was no bomb throwing available. In wartime operations, however, the thuds carry very few bombs internally. Most of the time, the bomb Bay was occupied by a further reserve of fuel. Call me out of wing. There was provision for two stores of Highlands to the critter. Base could be used to carry weaponry and fuel in any desired combination, or removed to allow the attachment of specialized delivery wrecks for other armaments like this installation for the Sidewinder. The standard built in armament of all Thunderchief variants was a General Electric M 6120 millimeter multi barrel gun. His gun fired at 6000 grams per minute. Their host deliveries continued, with the 335th Tactical Air Squadron becoming the first fully equipped with the new fighter and celebrating by setting a world speed. Side away from Europe, the summer of 1964 saw the thuds go into action for the first time. Soon there were sporting new camouflage as they were deployed in larger numbers to bases in Thailand and South Vietnam. From those bases, they launched the campaigns that were to write their name into mystery. For the F105, Vietnam was the right place at the right time. Even during their service life up to that time, there had been continued problems with reliability and as recently as 1962 they had all been grounded. Though those problems had been ironed out, the plague of minor defects and a series of accidents had continued almost up to their first Vietnamese missions. But that adds in Vietnam, yet to earn a completely different reputation, as were liable and durable aeroplanes, they also earned a fearsome reputation as weapons. The importance of the Thunderchief in Vietnam can be simply indicated. During the first five years of their involvement there, they flew an amazing 75% of all USAF attack missions. If this guy is a Vietnam were full of bombs, it was because thugs put them there. From March 1965, increasing numbers of air strikes were made on North Vietnam. Predominantly directed at communications targets, the raids relied almost entirely on the Earth 10 fives. The planes would heap themselves into the air with their loads of bombs and hid for a rendezvous with a tanker near the North Vietnam border. For with the level of external stores they were carrying and the way that increasingly they had to fly flat out all the way across Vietnam rather than cruising to and from the target. Their range had been cut considerably, and even with full tanks the journeys didn't leave much to spare. Then they flew on into hostile airspace. Production of the 10 fives had been completed in December 1964. Only 78 at the B model had been built. The majority, 610, had been F105D's. The D had acquired an extended nose in accommodating updated all weather navigation systems and thus was externally markedly dissimilar to the fee. The other 143 were the twin seat edge model. It had always been expected that there would be a twin seat version of the fly in, but two earlier twin seat proposals had been drop. The F's were to provide the stock for the later development of the last 105 the G the Wild Weasel. The workhorse of the bombing raids was the deep. The single seat is abounded on the bases where the work of war went on 24 hours a day. At the end of each mission, the returning pilot would confer with his crew chief about the performance of the plane and handed over to him for service. The service record of the 105 zitnay was excellent. On any given day, over 90% of the thuds were ready for work. This figure was higher than the overall average within the USAF, and considering the complexity, workload and relative scarcity of the big flines, it's all the more outstanding. To keep them in the air, facilities for total maintenance of the planes were built at the bases they flew their missions from, and specialist teams were constantly available to fly in to handle specific problems. Teams of ground crew at the bases carried out the normal turnaround routines like refuelling, filling the water tank in the tail for the afterburner, revealing the plane and the other servicing required between missions quickly and efficiently. The body of the plane was a patchwork of hatches, allowing access to the equipment inside. The big fuselage had very little spare room inside it, but the layout was good enough to ensure that servicing was relatively straightforward. The bases were a far cry from the mud and improvisation of the Second World War. A Thunderchief parked on tech Lee's acres of hardstand could be serviced with relative ease. The wing flight combinations for the next mission were selected and affected, and the pain armed in a smooth and practised routine. A large part of the bombs dropped on Vietnam were iron bombs of Second World War vintage. Sadly, there were of a design philosophy and era that should have been long gone. However, modern smart bombs were left to really arrive in Vietnam until the F1 elevens used them. So the 1:05 missions were elephant fluent, deliver hardware that was uncontrolled in flight, often unstable in trajectory, and sometimes unreliable in effect. But with these bombs, the thuds hammered the north and in most instances destroyed their allocated targets. Right through the night, the vases were a hybrid activity as the work of repairing, servicing and arming the planes went on. Another factor that makes the 90% availability of the floods even more impressive was their toughness. They kept coming back from missions with major battle Demics to repair the Dutch sustained strikes from Sam's as well as Chipola and Mick Cannons and survive. Each morning the one Man Air Force has waited ready. USAF flew the first of the Rolling Thunder series of strikes. The inclusion of the reference to Thunder is fitting as throughout its three years Rolling, Thunder was to be the almost exclusive province of the Thunderchief. The fuller extension of the air ward to the north had three purposes. First, to reduce the infiltration of the S, 2nd to give pause to the communist leadership in Hanoi, and thirdly to bolster the morale of the southern leadership and the people of South Vietnam. As the name implies, the strikes rolled forward into the north, targets being progressively further and further over the border, and the Thunder was real. The damage to the North's bridges and railways and roads exacted a great cost on the communists and had put their war effort considerably. However, though at times apparently shaken, the Hannaway leadership did not break. The thuds flew in on their deadly missions and the Vietnamese tried with everything the Russians and Chinese could give them, to knock them from the sky. North Vietnam was not an ideal target for a sustained bombing campaign. There was very little industrial infrastructure to damage and almost no war production. The country had an agrarian society, predominantly rural and dispersed. The few major targets in terms of docks and storage were within the exclusion zones around Hanoi and high foam, but two major cities. To political reasons, these areas were not bombed for most of the war, as the US consistently tried to negotiate an end to the fighting in the South. My. OK, I got that. The thud pilots learned their own ways of coping with the streams of Sands that rose at them, splitting and diving to confuse and evade the missiles. I can take it down. Take it down. Office. OK, big. In the tangles with the Migs, the 10 fives came off well. They had such reserve of power that if a meat managed to get in position to fire, they could in most cases simply accelerate away from them. Further, the thuds were capable of turning the tables on their attackers and really mixing it. 28 mig Seventeens were downed by 10 fives. The bombs continued to rain down on Vietnam. Supporting the bombing was an electronics and communications network of unprecedented technical sophistication. Operations controllers directed a huge fleet of varied craft in the air at every level, from artillery spotter planes to B50 twos. They dispatched rescue operations for downed pilots and coordinated the activities of tankers, bombers and fighters. Off the coast of North Vietnam, prowled the big Eye Plants Act with sensitive radar and alert for the slightest activity from the MIG squadrons. Any appearance of the mix was monitored and the information relayed to the fighters in the area. Were constant observation, coupled with the air superiority of the fandoms and public cheeks, cancelled to ensure that for large periods of the war the Communist Air Force stayed on the ground? The controllers and their equipment direct in the air strikes, were themselves part of a chain of command that stretched back from Vietnam through the Pacific headquarters in Hawaii, all the way to Washington, where the targets were identified that authorized. At the very end of the chain were the thoughts setting off daily with their lures. Target area. Is it bad? 12. O'clock. Alright. OK, I got them here. Thousands and thousands of sorties succeeded one another, with the F105 carrying most of the load. Whether or not one questions the strategic effect of the program, it is impossible to not acknowledge the burden that the Thunder chiefs carried and the effectiveness with which they pursued their assignments. In June 1967, the first of the thoughts to do so reached the halfway point in a theoretical 4000 hour fatigue lifetime, to be followed soon by others. The most critical fatigue and the sudden was the strains upon the Indians. Permissions that the thumbs were flying were unlike anything originally envisaged. There were regularly running at full power without the burner for extended periods of time. The stress on the power plants was enormous. The hot sections of the huge J-75 engine were particularly vulnerable to this type of treatment. Already there had been some shortages of spares. As a safeguard, the normal engine life between changes was reduced from 200 to 125 hours and teams of mechanics worked on overhauling their engines, testing them and reinstalling them on the plains. The 388 Squadron was flying a Thunder chief with 3000 hours under its belt heading gone out on 500 missions, received flight damage on several occasions and had been involved in the mid air collision earlier in the year. By October 3, more had passed the mark. They were growing old fast. An earlier suggestion to reopen the lines and fill more if 10 fives had been considered then dropped. There was a replacement to much of their work already available in the Phantom, and construction was proceeding apace on their successor, a design that had been much influenced by the story of the thud and which reflected many of the missions learned in its combat light, the F111. For the time being, the thuds remained indispensable and they were constantly tendered to maintain their status and Philomela. Profax remained in Vietnam to the end. Not only the two seater Sam suppressing wild weasels, but also the D's and F's with it bonds, Technical Support and electronic countermeasure systems. The thuds were still workhorses and bright through to the devastating linebacker one and two operations that finally brought the north to a negotiating position that allowed the new US to withdraw from the conflict. Their bombing exist stained the air war against N Vietnam. There was no other plane at the time that could have done the job. The farming was fiercely pressed home and the results devastated, particularly when they were directed against a specific industrial target. The hopes he min trailed buzzed with activity during the bombing Hawks. Illustrating 2 points, the widely resolve of the Vietnamese in pursuit of their aims and the effectiveness of the bombing. The pilots tour of duty was 100 missions and the thuds saw hundreds of pilots through their tour and home again. They were men who were undoubtedly universally glad to be out of the war, glad to have done their job and survive. However, many of the motor missed their big machines and the sensation of howling through the air in a huge metal monster at twice the speed of sound. Captain John Pierre Wadi began growing his mustache when he first arrived in Vietnam in 1967. When he finished his 100th mission, the moustache was 12 1/4 inches long. On his 55th mission, his thought was hit by artillery over the Paul Duma Bridge near Hanoi during a bombing run. His story is typical. Not only did he hit the bridge and bring down a span, but the damaged thought brought in harm to finish his tour. Some of the wild weasel and other specialist planes stayed with the USAF after Vietnam, but the 10 fives were progressively phased out and retired into the hands of the pilots of the office reserves. There were not too many of them about, and they faded rather quickly from use. The last reserved flight of an F105 was on the 25th of May 1983, exactly 25 years after the accident on the 1st flight of the F105B. Many pilots are in the seat of an F105 and went through the startup process. Many owed their lives to them. Most of them considered their play in the best in the inventory. The Big fighter grew from its problem childhood, and the parameters of what an aircraft could be asked to do grew with it. In an era of multiple transitions, it is an astounding achievement that so much was got right so well in one package. There were never very many of them, and their reputation is perhaps not widespread, but if the words great pain can be ascribed to any plan, then they can certainly be ascribed to the F105 Thunderchief the thud. This is Bob. Over North American. Aviation. Who always. Gives us tremendous display precision flying with this north. American, P51. Bob Hoover. He used to be a test pilot, one of the best. Today he's manager of customer relations for North Americans Los Angeles division, and he's the man who demonstrates this plane. I guess I was fairly apprehensive the whole time that I was flying in combat and and I guess there's good reason to feel that way. I'm there to cause a lot of damage and a lot of harm and therefore they would like to damage me and I was 25 years old at that time. Top Gun was really a thrill. I must have done well in actual combat. Because at the time I was just a Lieutenant junior grade, which is a first Lieutenant in the Air Force. And so I may have been the very first Lieutenant junior grade to go through Top Gun. I grew up in Bremen, GA, about an hour West of here. Graduated from high school, there came to Georgia Tech 1952. Met Patty UPS along the way. We graduated in 1956. I had been accepted for pilot training with the Air Force after ROTC. But it was delayed for a year on it to go on active duty. So I worked for Lockheed out here in Marietta. And then in 1957, I entered pilot training down in Bainbridge, GA. I was very fortunate flew first group that flew the T37. Went from there to Laredo TX T33 and got my wings. Came back to Moody Air Force Base flying F86L. Jim SRSLY, from Florida, returned from his service in Vietnam a triple amputee. Well, very fond memories of growing up in Rochester, MN. Great. Great town, you know. Great place to be a kid. Spent a lot of time playing Little League baseball, basketball, football, all those kind of things. Had a large family always look forward to Thanksgiving dinners, Christmases together, that type of thing, and just sharing our life together. Well. I joined the Army to be a wheeled vehicle mechanic to work on jeeps and trucks. The second advanced individual training I took at Fort Sill was for self-propelled tracks and howitzers, tanks and armored personnel carriers to do the maintenance work on those. And I'll be honest with you, I wasn't much of a Garrison soldier. It wasn't what I joined the army to do. Felt like I wanted to make a stronger contribution than of what I was doing with the 24th Infantry Division in Germany. And because of that I went down and talked to the first Sergeant and said, you know, top, I'd like to, I'd like to volunteer to go to Vietnam. I've given this a lot of thought. I've talked to a lot of the guys that are in the unit that have come back from Vietnam and it's truly something I think I want to do. We're going to hit on the by the number 3 engine back here and there's a gas tank in there caught fire and Steve King, the pilot, is telling us to bail out. The plane is going down. I was hooked up to the electrical supply for my electrically heated suit and I had my headset on, so I had to disconnect those things. I got down here on this little deck. Which is right under the pilot seats here above. And I started the debate with myself about what I was going to do. We've been given the bailout order and I I was thinking it over, but the only thing that I have much time to do that but and you're going to do what you're going to jump. Out now and. Let myself fall forward out this way. The plane blew up. One of the Gunners was killed, but the rest of us were out of there. We were scattered. The people jumped out at various times and they said two guys landed in the wrong place, fell into the hands of civilians who killed them. And. Miller, the pilot copilot, was shot to death. His parachute. I just landed in the spot. Where? It it happened to be a suburban area right across the street from a military hospital. And and these I could see the German soldiers leaning out the window. They're watching me come down. I get down and I what you were supposed to do? You're supposed to hide your parachute. Well, so I hid my parachute. They're all watching me. And two guys drive up. Two soldiers drive. Up in the car. And it took had their pistols out and I put my hands up and war was over for me at that point. In our fifth mission, we hadn't had a lot of problems before that fifth mission. Sitting here, vomiter, sitting up or Scott is all of a sudden I hear. Look. Familiar comes flying off his seat and landed right. Here. On his back. I didn't know what happened to him, you know. What happened was a piece of flag come. Through the plastic and it made that sound block. And father's name was CC. You don't need laying there. It's OK. I think I'm alright. I'm alright. But I mean, it was. Kind of like that. I knew they were shooting. Us. But you know. Yeah, we uh, that the little things. When I just look at that, I just remembered that again that when that sound and you never forget that clock. I remembered that. A World War Two airfield encampment recreated at Oshkosh brought back memories still vivid after more than 65 years. Younger aviation enthusiasts were eager to hear about the veteran's experience. You had to bail out, yes. I had a bailout. Yes. You did not me. No, I took his place, actually. Ohh really. Yeah, so I I finally forgave him after all these years. But. That day. I was in the great escape camp for six months and then they moved us to another camp and. Trying to liberate it by General Pat, I saw him in person. So this kind of brings back some memories. You're seeing it stuff. And look at the look at the chest packed parachute here. Yep, you know. When I. I wore the chest pack for a long time. Then I had this one mission where we got shot up and dropped out of the formation, and when I got back from that mission I said no more chest back. I don't want to be looking around. Where the hell is? It. So I got I got a backpack backpack, so I've changed my parachute and I wore it in and out. From then every mission I wore parachute and my armored flak vests from take off to landing. For Jack and Don, the climax was a flight on Thunderbird. A beautifully restored aircraft painted in the colors of a B17 that flew 112 bombing missions in Europe. It takes dedication, hours of hard work and eye watering amounts of money to maintain and fly this old warbird. The Lone Star Flight Museum of Galveston, TX keeps her flying as a living memorial to the men and women of the 8th Air Force to World War Two. Haven't been up in that thing since 1940. 4. Well, looking pretty good and that's it. Yeah. I'm still amazed that these things still play. For this trip, they chose the relative comfort of the radio compartment located behind the Bombay. Look at that. They didn't have insulation at that time. I mean, you did. Everything rattled. And it was cold because. Something like this? The Bombay looks very. Small, I know. It doesn't. You can see all the way up to the flight deck there. Yeah. That's really something, really. Find the gap. This. Fixture is lighter. Can't believe. There we go. Walking through this forest within my mind. It dissipates before my. Eyes. Burying under endless pavement and concrete. We are truly a band of brothers of people who are Vietnam Veterans. And I, the people I was with in Vietnam to this day, if they called me up and asked me for anything, I would be right there to help them because it was an experience. That we all shared that. It's hard for anyone else to enter into that experience. Stare outside my window. The seasons change. I cannot live here anymore. Means a lot to I I don't. It's hard to explain what's in your heart, but to see all the veterans and and think about all those that can't be here, so sure appreciate everything they're doing for the rest of us that are left. Fastic man will save the day. Interestingly enough, the best music in Vietnam. Came from Hanoi, Hannah. We got to get out of this place. Must be something we can do. Bring. Down this show. School school. The legacy will leaving for. Our children. If you could take the genes from the consummate military leader and combine them with the genes of the consummate fighter pilot, the result might look just like this. However, if you created a fictional military hero with Brigadier General Robin Oles resume, an editor would likely reject it for being beyond belief. In 1942, Poles was an All-american tackle for West Point. In 1943, he was commissioned a second Lieutenant and completed pilot training. He entered World War Two flying a P38 he named Scat One. As he progressed through different iterations of fighter planes, he simply kept adding Roman numerals to the scat name. He finished the war in a P51 named Scatt 7. In addition to becoming a double ace plus with 12 aerial victories, he destroyed another 11 1/2 aircraft on the ground. He later became the wingman on the Air Force's first aerobatic jet team. In 1966, he became commander of the 8th Tactical Fighter Wing at Ubon Royal Thai Air Force Base, Thailand. Robin Olds flew 152 combat missions in Southeast Asia and F4 Phantoms, 105 of them over North Vietnam. He shot down to North Vietnamese Mig Seventeens and two Mig 20 ones. Robin Oles was famous for something else. Never learned to mince words or play politics with the mission of the military, as those in the Warbirds in review audience learn when Oles described his return from Vietnam. I got home. About the 20 or the last day of September, 1st of October on a Friday. My family's in Washington. And I'm on leave. Phone rang Saturday. And get over here to the Pentagon. Chief of staff wants to see you Monday morning. I said I'm on leave. That doesn't matter. The chief wants to see is that? Yes, Sir. OK. I reported into his office. He's the one that walked up to me and said take off that mustache. Yes, Sir. The next thing I knew, he briefed me and I'm in the Oval Office of the White House. You know, I'd. God me. LBJ was the president, so I'm sitting on the end of a couch. He's on an easy chair. And his aide, a Colonel Air Force Colonel, was sitting on my right. And Mr. President said, welcome home, Colonel. You you did well, thank you very much, Sir. Yeah. Well, what's it like to be home? That was the weekend that thousands and thousands of hippies marched on the Pentagon. I said, Sir. Who are all those funny looking people that marched on the Pentagon yesterday? Hey, and I'm gonna quote for you folks. He said. I got 240,000 boys over there in Vietnam. We're not boys. Come home, they'll tell the American public what's happening and I'll wait a minute. That's your job, not mine. Well, of course you don't say that. So the best thing I could think of to come up with it, Sir. I've been home since Friday. Bender, couple of dinner parties. No one asked me where I've been and what I've been doing for the past year. In case somebody does ask, what would you like me to tell him? I'm thinking, you know, end a career. He glared at me, and then he said. Well, Colonel? You tell them. I'm quoting that we are preventing the North Vietnamese from interfering in the democratic process in South Vietnam. I said. I'm sorry, Sir, I can't say that. Well, why not, Colonel? Well, Sir, if that's why we're there, I don't want to be the one that spreads the word. Ohh. It was grim for a few minutes, but I hand the man full credit. He he let me talk. He listened. And he sent me down the next morning to talk to his chief security adviser in the basement of the White House. We argued for a couple of hours. But this security advisor and I argued at one point I said something. He said, you know, we can't do that. That'll bring down the Chinese. I said the Chinese and the North Vietnamese have hated each other for a couple of 1000 years. They fought wars against each other. Haven't you read their history? No, he hadn't. So finally say, what do you think we ought to do? And I said, for God's sakes, Sir. Mine the harbors because everything they use came in by ship bottom gas, you know, missiles, ammunition, everything. Food. His response? When I said mind the harbors was we can't do that, that's an act of war. Am I? This was the but the second or third of October of 1967. I wonder if he ever wondered what the hell we were doing over there. No, it was a. I maintained we had every reason to be there, but we went about it improperly under the leadership of McNamara and Johnson. He became the 1st P-47 pilot to score 5 victories on the same mission. We would fly close formation 45 minutes ahead of the bombers. Into Frankfurt, in which split up like this in a fan, and I was in this westernmost flight who was supposed to fly 15 minutes and then do a reciprocal on that heading and come back well. I've completed a 15 minute turn around and come back. And everybody heard everywhere I listen, everybody was seeing bogus. The Germans were all over the place. And shortly after that I looked in front of me and there's a gaggle of that 109 close formation still had their tanks on. So with my flight of four, I pressed the attack and they saw us coming and all of a sudden all those tanks went off at the same time and they don't go down like a bomb, they they flutter and that's, I've never seen that. That got my attention, but only for a short time and I press on to to make the attack. And they show it's coming out, obviously. And then the whole gag would just split asses. They went in every direction and I picked up two and tied onto them and away we go. Nothing could die with the people 47. And what we did know this, that one O 9 supposedly could not pull out if it was vertical at 5000 feet. Will it save my life knowing that? Because I'm really concentrating. You have tunnel vision when you're getting ready to fire watching this all of a sudden. The wings start to flutter and it looked pretty sad. Something was about to happen so I looked at my speed indicator and I was doing 575 straight down and I right away I got both hands on the stick. Felt like it was in concrete where approaching compressibility. So Long story short, the 109 splashed. I pulled out just above the tree level and got up out of there. So that was my first victory on that day and I got up to 8000 feet. You're always climbing. Gratitude. I've got 8000. I looked down. There's a long 109 flying by itself going east. Made a pass down on you gave him a good burst. And it did. Two violent snapper boom, boom and turning went straight in. So that was the second one. So I pulled up from that, started to climb and our leader, fair Hub Zemke Fairbanks leader, I'm 10 miles South of Coblentz. I'm over the whole loop. Wapa, that's quite a statement. I make this great big wide orbit. Then it was, it wasn't like a mile, it was a big wide orbit. Before I could get on with somebody without somebody immediately on my tail. Finally, I sound two there are only about 50 feet apart. I pulled onto one of the left. They didn't move. They didn't do anything to evade me. I gave him a good burst. Smoke started to come from it and the right deer fell out. So it started slow spiral going down. I just had the little right rudder. Same thing that happened to that one had his right gear fell out and it was the two of them going spiraling down together. That was my third and 4th of that day. So but that time I looked over and there's a one O 9 climbing up on the hub zemke's butt. And I called to him and I said break, you know you said where is it? And like a dumb Lieutenant I said he's climbing right up. Under your. Ass. And I thought he'd get all of them and got back to briefing. But he didn't say one thing about that. And I managed to just get a few short burst on the round of cockpit. Excuse me, I didn't think I had him, but the airplane slid off to the right and the pilot bailed out and that was my fit for the mission. So I came in, I hit the spot, got down on the ground safe, and here were the true heroes in that my crew chief and medic looked at me and I said go get them. And here we're sitting in a minefield. Nobody's moving. Everybody's dead or wounded. They start going running. Through the minefield and they're carrying the patients back to the aircraft. And I'm sitting in the right seat. Looking out the door. Boom. They step on a mine or set off a mine and they got a great big guy on the litter and I think he saved my 2. Guys, the rest of the shrapnel. Went into the aircraft and Kim and in the concussion. Just blew them up. In the air. They land, they put him on the aircraft and they go back and. Get the rest of the patient. If John Wayne plays you in a movie, it would seem you've led an extraordinary life. In the Flying Tigers, John Wayne is said to have modeled his character after David Lee, Tex Hill, one of the original American Volunteer Group, or a VG Flying Tigers. In order to appreciate what the Flying Tigers did, you first have to understand the importance of the task they undertook. In 1937, Japan launched a full scale invasion of China. Within five months, 1,000,000 Chinese people were under Japanese control. By the end of 1937, all of the major cities in China were captured, including Generalissimo Chiang Kai, Shek's Capital. Of nanking. Claire L Chennault, a retired U.S. Army Air Corps officer, was serving as an aviation adviser to Chiang Kai Shek during the Sino Japanese War. The Chinese Air Force was nonexistent. Generalissimo, Chiang and Chennault sought and received US permission to recruit Army, Navy and marine aviators and have them resign their commissions to join a contract volunteer force to defend China. The AVG Flying Tigers were born and Tex Hill was one of its original recruits. China is a vast nation and it valiantly fought on against the Japanese even though there were 2,000,000 Japanese soldiers in China by 1941. But in May of 1942, China nearly capitulated. Its supply lifeline was the 717 mile Burma Rd, which ran from Lashio and Burma to Kunming in China. In May, the Japanese overran the American, British and Chinese forces in Burma and completed the blockade of China. Soon the Japanese 56th Division, the vaunted Red Dragons, were pouring up the road into China, with only one remaining. Obstacle the Salween river. An expansion bridge across the mile Deep River Gorge had been destroyed by the retreating Chinese, but the Japanese had gone down to the river and already had a pontoon bridge under construction. That set the stage for one of the most memorable aerial combat missions in history. On May 7th, 1942, Tex Hill and three other flying Tigers in well worn P 40s dived into the River gorge carrying 500 pound Russian made bombs. All of that mission on the 7th of May 1942. So. If you knew your history, why Romeo is just about in Cairo at that time. Now the Japanese had plans to go into India. If China had collapsed, the Indians would have turned on the Brits and slaughter them like pigs. And they've signed it's it's conceivable that the Japanese and the Germans would have linked up across India and Africa. And. We've had a different situation in the world. We would probably wound up with some sort of negotiated peace because we didn't have the atomic bomb at that time, because that solved everything, but that was. Almost three years later now, on May, the. 7th when I was asked to lead a mission while the Chinese had blown the bridge, the main bridge there, but the Japanese had started building a pontoon bridge across. So I took a a force of eight planes. Four of us were Navy guys that come out of a dive bomber squadron. We were loaded up with these big Russian bombs. 550 pounds, roughly, and some. Fragile on the wing. And I got up there and I saw that that pontoon bridge wasn't all the way across where that road lines down that gorgeous about a mile deep and the road is cut back into the into the mountain. And so I was lucky enough to hit the road above where the bomb and knocked the edge of the road off. And everybody hit above it and now had a landslide that could shovel it off and wouldn't be in a big problem. But when I knocked the edge of that road off, now, they got the right back into that mountain and that's locked, you know. But anyway, it blocked them in for three days. They had no place to go. I mean, we slaughtered these. Done. I don't know how many people were killed in the bombing and strafing them for three days. Sometimes people have never really understood the significance of thought showing mission, and now the people who were involved in that do. But none of the historians have really picked up on it. And I understand that this could have been an entirely different world, you know, if that mission had failed. What? What put you on a track to go in ROTC and then into the Air Force? Is that something you wanted to do since you were a kid, or what when did that kick in for? You well, growing up during World War Two formative years, I heard about these guys flying tigers, running around China, strafing trains and doing things in the big raids, and I thought that must be really neat. I'm Colonel Bud Anderson and I'm going to do, you might say, a walk around on a P51B bravo airplane. This particular airplane right here is painted exactly like my airplane was painted in World War Two, and it's been. Restored by Jack Roush. And he's done a marvelous job of restoring it. And one of the main features, of course, is the. Malcolm Hood, which is quite a quite a modification on the on the P51B's and and and CSB's and C's had the what we call a bird cage canopy. And you opened it like this over the top like that and of course it had slats on the thing and of course when you're looking out the damn slat is right there by your eye. And so these were marvelous improvement. For a pilot to look around in aerial combat, well, when you did a walk around in the morning, he usually came out from operations and walked out to your airplane. Your crew chief would meet you somewhere in the area and then you go over the paperwork &amp; the form 1A, the maintenance records on the airplane that. Uh, that that the that the military kept at the time. Ohh and discuss anything about the airplane if you wanted or this is my own personal airplane and I knew it very well and and I had a a wonderful crew of ground crew. That was the dream of a lifetime come true. I had wanted to be an aeronautical engineer and a test pilot, just like my dad from the time I was ten years old. STS 27 was my was my third launch, and it was only the second launch after the challenger accident. We were a top secret classified Department of Defense mission, so to this day if I told you what we carried, you could never leave this hangar. I never felt that I was any better than any other pilot. I just felt this is what I want to do and I want to do it to the best of my ability. If you are interested in or involved with aviation, you'll likely know something about Robert Anderson, Bob Hoover. Yet he did so much, and touched so many during his long life and career, that even his admirers might be surprised at all that he did. On the other hand, if you're not familiar with the history and evolution of American aviation, there really is no quick way to describe the true American hero, the Authentic national treasure known as Bob. Hoover. The Immortal Aviation Pioneer, Medal of Honor recipient and Air Force General Jimmy Doolittle once called Bob the greatest stick and rudder man that ever lived. I don't know, but I take Jimmy's word for it. Bob was certainly the best I ever saw. But there is no Bob Hoover elevator speech. I can't tell you he was the first pilot to solo across an ocean nonstop. Or a combat fighter ace. He wasn't the first pilot to exceed the speed of sound. Or to walk on the moon. But I can tell you that Bob Hoover had the complete respect and admiration of the pilots who did those things. They knew that Bob Hoover not only possessed a transcendental gift for flying airplanes, but also a set of core values that invariably drove him to do the right thing for his fellow pilots, for his employer, for his country, for aviation. I was honored to be one of the celebrants of his memorial service when he left us in late 2016. Well, I will never forget. We maneuvered the arm and Mike Mullane was my arm operator, so he moved the arm over there and we brought up the television image of the right wing and I looked at what I was seeing and I said to myself, we are going to die. Jim SRSLY served as a mechanic and machine gunner on an armored personnel carrier with the 17th Armored Cavalry, 196th Light Infantry of the American Division. After four months in country, his leadership qualities brought him a promotion to vehicle commander and squad leader. I was honored to be selected to have that position. I enjoyed what I was doing, but I wasn't sure if I wanted to spend any more tours in Vietnam with what we were experiencing at that time. I did truly enjoy the military and love the life. 10 months into sisley's tour. Everything changed. For him. And I mean it was a routine day like many others that we had a daily operation search and clear sweeping villages to make sure that they were clean of of either NVA or or Vietcong looking for weapons, that type of thing. And as it got on towards evening, we were looking to pick a night logger position where we could set up for the night, stay there overnight and then continue operations the next morning when I came off the track. I went out to get some equipment on the perimeter of the area we set up on and stepped on a landmine. Turned out to be estimated at about PS25.00 of TNT. It traumatically amputated both of my legs and my left arm. I went, got on the dust off helicopter and went to the hospital just about like you see me now. The amazing thing about what happened that day was it was an all powder explosion. There was no shrapnel to it whatsoever. It was not contained or encased in in in metal. That ball of flame cauterized my arteries and kept me from bleeding to death. Never lost another drop of blood from the explosion on and laid there on my back while the medic worked on me and never lost consciousness. Actually carried on a conversation with our medic before the dust off helicopter got there. I don't remember much of the helicopter flight from the from the explosion on. I remember getting to the 95th EVAC hospital when I first got there. It was very quiet day. There was no need to triage me because they they had plenty of staff available to work on me. I came in and out of consciousness during that three day. Time while I was there because they had troops from my outfit came up to visit and I remember the conversations I had with them. Nobody came up and felt sorry for you. I mean, even even 2448 hours after my injury, I actually had guys come up and say seriously, you look like crap. You know? I mean, that's just the way Vietnam Veterans treated each other. That was the nicest greeting you could ever get if they addressed you in that manner. So just the fact that they were there to come and visit, know that you were severely injured and you were going to move on to someplace else. Was a real heartfelt expression on their part, and it was taken that way too. At at what point in your Air Force career did you get introduced to the F105? I was in Graduate School at Southern California in 196566. And while I was there I was thinking I'm gonna miss out on this war cause I had a lot of friends that already had assignments. But I received an assignment at the time. During before I finished out there for the 1:05 and the sequence of events was I'd go to survival school at the completion and then to Nellis Air Force Base and check out in 105. To go to Tackley, Thailand. So when you're in Nellis, how often did you get into Las Vegas? Surprisingly, I didn't go down there as much as you'd think during that time. We were pretty busy. I went out a few times to make sure one go win any extra money. In an airplane, the guy was a Mongoose. It's hard to believe if the only Bud Anderson you knew was the one on the ground. Calm. Gentlemanly. The grandfather. 's money. And all round. Nice guy. But once you've got him in an airplane, he's vicious shot down 17 airplanes. Best fighter pilot I've ever seen. The man who spoke those words would certainly be in a position to know. He flew with Bud Anderson in England as part of the celebrated 357th Fighter Group. But became a triple ace in the P51 Mustang, racking up 16 and a quarter kills over 2 tours of duty. Line 116 missions in his venerable Old Crow. Anderson was so skilled that he was never hit by an enemy aircraft and never turned back for any reason. In fact, he can only recall one occasion when an enemy pilot was able to get behind him. Little wonder that General Chuck Yeager called him the best he's ever seen. There were 30 years of continuous service for this soft spoken farm kid from Central California, including some of the most dangerous post war flight testing done by the Air Force. Commanding a squadron of F86 jets in Korea. And 25 combat missions in F1 oh fives during the Vietnam. War. To understand Bud Anderson, you have to understand just how much flying means to him. And he won't try to tell you that. He once wrote. How do you explain this sort of feeling to those who don't fly? How do you explain color to somebody blind from birth? I was a NASA astronaut until I was 50 years old. And so I looked at the situation and I had known a number of Southwest airline pilots and they were just like me. They were flying because they loved to fly. Well, there's a lot of piloting that goes into it, a tremendous amount of piloting that goes into it because you're going to wind up passing other airplanes. You're you're going to get in a duel. With another airplane that's fairly closely matched. So there's a ton of satisfaction from from doing that and hey, let's just talk about the racing itself. It's fun to fly low. But it's dangerous and so the only time I feel hello is at the Reno Air Races, but watching the ground go by you at 400 and 500 miles an hour. Is pretty darn thrilling because it's it's really scooting on by and that's fun. That's really fun. I had always been fascinated by racing planes because they're sleek, streamlined and they they they go real fast. There's that need for speed again and they're raced around a pylon and so I determined that I could. Break the existing altitude record for altitude and horizontal flight for that quarter category of airplane. And in fact I did that in 1991. And I'm fond of saying that. If I have done well as an aviator, it's because my dad was the one who taught me how to fly. And he didn't just teach me how to fly, he taught me the why of it as well. He taught me the aerodynamics behind it. The reasons that you're doing things not just not just how to do it, but why you're doing it is is also very important. Tell tell me as much as you can remember about your journey to Vietnam. How did they get you over there? Did did you did? You fly an airplane over there or did they ship you some other way? Just tell us about. Going to Vietnam and your first impressions of of being there. OK, I left from Fort Walton Beach, Eglin Air Force Base and the end of March 1967. I flew commercially to San Francisco and then up to Travis Air Force Base. Where I was on a military contract flight that. Alan hopped to the Philippines. Clark Air Base and I went through jungle survival school there for about 10 days. And then I flew again on contract flight. The to. Bangkok and then on a military airplane. C-47 the old gooney bird up to tuckley. And what what do you remember about? Stepping off an airplane for the first time and and. I had a very memorable introduction. The fellow who was the UPS officer from my squadron and the one that became my flight commander subsequently. Said welcome to the 354th, the highest loss rate squadron in Southeast Asia. What a good deal. And then about a week later, I went up and met with the Wing Commander who welcomed the new people, and he told us that in two years of operation, the track record was. And the hundred missions or one year tour, you had a 5050 chance of being shot down. If you were shot down, you had a 5050 chance of being rescued. Welcome to the war. I flew all of my combat missions, 116 with 480 hours and 20 minutes of combat, flying without a single abort for any reason whatsoever. That's pretty remarkable, actually, having having said what my combat record was, 116 missions without on board. Leads me to my crew chief story, which I like to tell. Whenever I can. You know I think you could imagine yourself being a a crew chief of of an airplane World War Two. Your pilots doing the fight and then the dying and a year back here maintaining that airplane and and. And you know, if you're the crew chief, that's your airplane and you're a you're a part of it. And when that guy gets a kill and puts it up in here, that's your kill, too. The guys were very. Very supportive and wanted to do their part. Just incredible. And the story I like to tell my crew chief story is about my second tour when I. I had a P51D dog, the classic model, over here, and it was camouflaged in this dark green camo. Completely. Just about like this airplane here. And it was my second tour and Otto Otto Heino had been promoted to tech Sergeant. And crew chiefs were staff Sergeant, so he had a flight of six airplanes to oversee. And so he handpicked a new crew chief for me, Mel Schuneman. And then, of course, the third member of my my crew was Leon Zimmerman, who was my armor. All three of those guys were those were my crews during World War Two and also during my P39 training. So there's a story goes. In my second tour I have like the completely camouflage the D. And I think it was in November of 1944. I remember it was snowing over Germany and it said Snow had hit the night before and I mean a big time snow and all of northern Germany and northern Europe was was in dense snow and I looked down. We used to fly in the finger fingertip 4A leader and a wing man and a. A element leader and a wing man, and I looked down against the here's a here's a nice white surface right here. With the flying of four, and at this point of time, we weren't paying too much attention to the paint schemes. And we had all green ones, we'd had all silver ones. We had some that were in half, half camel and half silver. And I'm looking down at this snow and which one stood out? Well, of course the dark ones stood out. The camouflaged airplane stood out. So. I've I've made a mental note to talk to my crew when I got back to after the mission. When I landed I got them together and I said, you know, it's snowing over there and I'm going to finish my tour in the winter. Whenever this thing is laid up for heavy maintenance, would you please deep paint it? Take the the. The camo off of it and make it a silver paint scheme. And I put it to him on a on a tactical basis that it might save my buck. But frankly, you know, I had another reason. That was one reason. But I kind of thought the, the old silverware airplanes looked a little cooler than the old commode airplanes. So I told him that, and I thought it would take, you know, two or three days to do that. And I did tell him when it's laid up for heavy maintenance, please repaint the airplane. So I went in and I was the operations officer and I decided that I wanted to fly the next day, put my name on the board. And went home and forgot about it. Next morning, after breakfast and getting the briefing come out, I grabbed my chute in operations. And I walked out to my revetment. I'm the closest my my revetment was the easy walking distance from operation. I had my parachute over my shoulder, and I climb up over the. Revetment and I standing there looking down, and here's my Mustangs sitting there and gleaming aluminum. And I was really quite flabbergasted, you know, I thought, WOW, did those guys think I gave them a direct order to do that? And then I looked at him closely and I noticed their hands were were raw. You know, the skin had been pushed off of them and and they've been rubbing and rubbing and a little blittable blood on them. And that made me feel really. Make me feel like hell, I said. I wonder, did these guys think I gave them a direct order to to paint that thing right there? And then I thought about it a little bit and I know you know. They wanted to do that. That was their contribution to the war and they they wanted to just please me however they could and I guess can't say enough about the crew chiefs of the world. We were there at the greatest camp, camp for six months. I got there three months after the great escape occurred. So there was talk about it. We didn't know it by that name. All we knew though, was they shot 50 officers for trying to escape and there was no. Way to get out because. As the Great escape proved. The only three guys out of the 76 that got out of the tunnel in the Great escape escaped and got away. And they were Europeans, every one of them two Norwegians and a Dutch. I'm glad that I had a chance to fight for my country. I'm glad that I took the chances that I did. I was a foolish kid. I wanted to fly. I wanted to be in combat. I changed my mind when I got there. And as I realized that the enemy is shooting back at you with real bullets. But the point is, I think that I'm glad for what I was able to do. I would do it again. You know, most pilots are in love with the airplane that they flew, but what? I mean, some of those loss rates had to do with the airplane you were flying, correct? Well, the loss rate I think was primarily the mission, but backing up when I was in Graduate School and we knew people were getting assignments, I had volunteered or indicated an interest in every airplane in Southeast Asia except the F1O5. And that was based on a briefing marital from Colonel Yeager when he was head of the Test pilot school he described as an electronic monster. Can't understand what Air Force wasted their money on this thing. So I was not particularly happy when I got my assignment, but by the time I checked out in the airplane, started flying it, I started to really like it. By the time I left to go to war, I won't say I was in love with it, but I was proud I was flying it, and the more I flew it, the prouder I was. But our mission, since we only flew in North Vietnam, made us extremely vulnerable. We didn't. We didn't have much. Clovis site milk runs maybe on a bad weather day you'd do a wrecky down in rec route back One North of the DMZ and that was pretty easy. But. I was on my 47th mission and 31 of them were in the Hanoi area. I'd already beaten the odds two or three times. I was not going to accept that I could not do what I really wanted to do. Time and time again throughout his life, Bob's resolve to speak and act according to his own conviction put him at odds with authority and often in very real physical danger. At the same time, that determination had everything to do with his greatness as an aviator and an American. When they were just 19 years old. Don Casey and Jack Sinise met in U.S. Army Air Corps Navigator school in pilot, Texas. They were deployed to Europe together with the 379th Bomb Group in February of 1944. When Jackson ease was removed from his airplane to be trained as a lead navigator, Don Casey took his place. On June 18th, 1944, Don was on a mission deep into Germany. It was his second mission in Jack's airplane and his 28th combat mission overall. Soon after leaving the target area, Don's plane was shot down and he and four of his crewmates became prisoners of war in Germany. I never got to meet Colonel Owls, but he was the commander of the 8th wing over at Ubon when I was flying and they flew in big cap on several missions into Hanoi that I was on. But I did not meet him personally until we till after the war. So. Obviously your your missions were into dangerous territory, and I've read that. Well, I won't get into reasons, but because of our unwillingness to stop the stuff coming in from the Russians, they had a very robust anti aircraft defense system. So, uh, I imagine every mission was just tremendously high risk. There were a few missions like the when we would do Rd wrecky or just general reconnaissance missions down in the lower route packs. One, two or three that were all there almost. They were fun, got out and rolled around and see the countryside while you were doing it, but yes, when we went into the Hanoi area. The expression was when he got up there, he asked. Belongs to Uncle Sam. Put those bums on target. And. There were some missions that everything is there. You're we went in at the time I was there. We might run ends at low altitude around 1500 two 1000 feet to try to stay out of the radar for the sounds. You know and a radar guns therefore small arms fire was a risk that you had to avoid. But again and the pattern that we flew we would pull up to about 14,000 feet and then come back in on a day off. And that's when the radar could pick you up where the first month or so I was there where the MIGS would be laying for us right over Hanoi. And and one mission I was on we had Migs going up with us in the pop. He had one O fives and Migs and 10 fives and Migs. And sounds going off and Flack all around. I don't know who the mega leader was that day, but he wasn't too smart. I think we've got storm clouds over Europe. That and I believe someday we're going to be in there a conflict of war. And if we are, I want to be out there fighting and. If I accept the Commission here, I'll have an O in my windshield. And that means observation palette, and you cannot play combat. And I had wanted to be a fighter pilot in the worst way. And so I asked him and I said, Sir, could you get me an assignment to flight training so I could be qualified for combat? And he said, well, of course I can. Bob had vision problems all his life. He wore fairly thick glasses for as long as I knew him. But to be a fighter pilot in World War Two, you needed to begin flight training with 2020 vision. If your vision degraded during training, you might be allowed to fly with corrective lenses, but not to start with. Once again, Bob's gift provided the way around an obstacle the flight surgeon who attest his vision had seen him. Fly and he said all there. Guard pilots tell me. How skilled you are and he said, I want you to pass this exam, but I'm concerned that you're going to have to work awful hard to get it. So he was trying to clue me. Sergeant, he said. I've got a couple of things I've got to do in my office and when I come back I want you to read that bottom line for me. So he gave me about 30 minutes to memorize the letters and two lines, the two lower lines that I couldn't read. It's it's sort of an interesting thing. I went through the same flight training as a cadet did. And when we when we graduated. I was still a Sergeant. And all the rest of the people were officers and they didn't have any experience like. I had it all. But. Yeah, I was a Sergeant, and when I when we. Winning the fight or training? I would have made a flight leader just right off. Well then about a month later. My commanding officer called me in and he said I'm putting you in charge. Of 67 fighter pilots and you're headed for England. And we did carry bombs. Briefly for about 30 days after the Normandy beachhead landing. OK, check your bone. You checked the guns and this is a. There's a difference on the B and the D of course the B model only had two guns, but they were also mounted differently and there's there's several production changes this in the between the B and the D but one of them will they these guns are are laying in here sideways and I don't know which way they lay. Yeah probably this way. And so the the ammo doesn't feed in there directly like that it feeds it a angle and so we were having gun. Scams, when you were pulling G's and firing the guns would jam and you had no way of recharging them and all that. And we finally got that ironed out by having very clean working guns and then putting trays on top of the ammo so it wouldn't flop around. But when you're doing a walk around, you just check and make sure they're usually have tape over the things like that. I was enthusiastic. I had. High ideals and expectations. Because I had. Learned a lot of things about aviation that other people had not had an opportunity to do. But Bob had another obstacle to overcome. The Army Air Corps plan for him did not include flying combat. We got to Africa and when we arrived there. I was the 1st to get an assignment and boy I was just anxious to go and. I checked in to where I had to check into and they said. We're separating you from your men, and you're going to be testing airplanes, taking them up for their first time. They're coming overseas and ships. We've already got two shiploads waiting now to be assembled, and when they get them assembled, you're going to fly them around and check them out until they're ready to go to combat. I said, boy, I wanted to go to combat. Ohh you could almost watch the gates drop. I used. I used to laugh. So put your hand on the floorboard, you could feel it going back. I'm trying to think. Typical fuel consumption was probably about 3000 gallons or pounds an hour, and the afterburner jumped to six to six point. Little over 6000. So you didn't do that unless you meant it. No. The the best I did I guess I get it about 1.3 or 4. But that's an interesting story from put on yeah, go. Ahead. I'd love to hear it. Toronto mission on Sunday afternoon and a railroad yard just NE of Hanoi across the the Red River Bridge there and my flight leader we were the number one bomb flight. There was a flak suppression flight ahead of us and the number four guy there had been hit and was going down under the clouds right about a $2000 level, 2000 foot level layer. And so my flat layer says I'm going to follow. Come down. So that makes me leading the mission out. And about the time I got out and got to recover right across Hanoi and that's where we were in afterburner, accelerating out of there in jinking a Sam went off so close that I flew through the colored cloud, which only last a couple of seconds. And I came back and I told him that day I said I think the biggest damage I did was going across how I know it's super Sonic blowing out all the windows in town. But as we got out, I was starting to climb out on a fellow from up here in Georgia who happened to be in my Squadron 2 kind of recognize this voice calling and he says single 10518 E of 97 shake it, you got a Mig on you. So I did a split S right down through the cloud layer. Pulled up and what I did looked out. There was a mountain Ridge on either side of me out here, at least 500 feet higher than me, and I came back out of there. Rather subdued, to say the least. I remember I got back and went through debriefing and intelligence. At that time, if you had a tough mission, they'd pull out this bottle of bourbon old overholtzer I remember, and they give you a shot and. I threw that down. I started telling him about the mission. He pulled us. He liked another and I said yeah. Analysis is going to have another one. I had my third shot of bourbon. We got through the debrief and I looked at my watch is about 5 minutes till the evening church time. And I went down to the Chapel and knew this Methodist minister was down there. And I leaned up and right up in his face and I said it was a close one today, but he got me back here. I said, you think I'll be OK here? He says he'll be glad you're here. Come on now. But that was probably my most exciting day other than being shot down. I guess the day you probably don't enjoy talking about but. I hope you will July 5th, 1967 and and maybe. You know, I'd, I'd love for people who, particularly young people, to understand what your day was like. Not just the fact that you're shot down, but your usual day and preparing for a mission and all you can remember about that day would be. Wonderful. Having trouble talking about July the 5th, 1967 was obviously a very special day, and two or three things lead. But up to that and that I had just been appointed or signed as the Executive Officer of the Squadron and we were having an inspection. We had a new commander. He asked me to do a check around to make sure we were ready and get acquainted myself. So I had not flown for three days. I I had sat a spare when I need, when they need it, but I didn't get off. And I remember on the night of the 4th of July I wrote a letter home and I said, well, I missed the fireworks again today. But Fergie promised me tomorrow for sure. And sure enough, I went out the afternoon mission. I dropped that report off on the commander's desk and. Headed out? And later on talking to people in Hanoi when we were together. Almost without exception, all of us acknowledged there was something different about the way we felt that day. We couldn't put our finger on it, but it didn't. It wasn't like a normal day. And I kept throwing to thank the whole time. What have I forgotten? What did I do and not not do or what? And as it turns out obviously was that since I guess of of the impending what was in imminent, but in my case I was the. #4 airplane and a second flight on railroad siding right up near the Chinese border. And. Just as we started our rollout of the first flight, there was a call from Migs about 20 miles West of us at our altitude, so as #4 as part of my responsibility. So I took a quick look out there to see if I could pick them up. And I didn't see anything. But when I look back, my leader had already started rolling in and the flak was so thick that I couldn't sit down. So I had to stay up till some bombs went off and I could see the target. Consequently, I had to adjust my role in instead of being in a 45 degree dive, I was probably at least 60. Coming straight down and I had to just the altitude. Dropped the bombs and I flew through three levels. They were laying out Flack at Level 3, about 3000 feet apart. I made it through the through three of the levels of flat, but just as my bombs came off I felt to hit. I've been hit twice before so it was unmistakable. But this time my procedure was when I dropped the bombs, was hit the afterburner, pull out, let that give me the thrust and start my jinking. All hit the afterburner. The airplane just stood to tumble and I came back out. It's stabilized and I I remember this distinctly. Boy, there'd be a heck of a ride at Coney Island. I've never been there, but I'd heard about. So relaxed, put the burner back in, get out of here. And the airplane just started flipping and tumbling and I couldn't see out because of the flames. But. I'm still going to try to make it as close as I could to the water would come in off the gulf and we're going back out that way. But about that time though. The camera up in front of the dash under the windscreen. Broke loose and I had to duck as it went over my head as I was looking at the estimate panel to start crumbling and the airplane is starting to come apart. So I leaned back, put myself in position, pull the handles and I remember thinking nothing happened. Putin is gone. And. I had a very interesting experience in that. I grayed out. I couldn't see anything, didn't feel anything. I was just kind of floating. I thought I was dead, literally. And then I started feeling some pressure. And my vision started coming back and I could see a little bit of green. And then all of a sudden I can see the canopy of, you know, the types of the trees and I'm coming down and. I looked up to see if a canopy was open and it would just starting to blossom and I reached up to get it and when I put my hands on the risers they've collapsed. I was sitting on a log on the ground and that all took less than two seconds because had those automatic systems that got me out, pulled the chute, not worked. I wouldn't be here talking to you today. I figured I went out inverted and negative G's and probably maybe even ejected toward the ground. I don't know. No idea. But somebody up there was looking out for me that day again, like the day that. Overhead noise supersonic. You're not any place you want to be. Well, the first thing obviously that I did once I was on the ground, sitting on the log, my parent, my emergency beeper was going off. Get that off so I can talk. But I couldn't get up to it. I couldn't get it cut off. I didn't think I realized after the fact that I had, because two others had been shot down and their beepers were the ones that were going off blocking things. But I made an immediate call, told him I was down safe. I'd check out in an hour. That's really optimistic, but sitting on the log looking down is kind of a running. I looked down, looked at tree. This is just like North Georgia. It was hell same kind of scrub trees and pine tree that rubbing around the ground gravel. And then all of a sudden it dawned on me, these ain't gonna be friendly North Georgia Mountaineers. Everybody I see now may be looking to kill me. So I started trying to get rid of stuff. My shoot was caught in the trees. I couldn't get it down. My Survival kit had that, comes out separately, had banged down and I couldn't get it open. But I could get the side open. It had the jungle hat with the mosquito net and a bottle. Two cans of water, and I pulled out the water. Stuck them in my flight suit, put the head on through my helmet down the hill, hoping that would make them think I'd gone that way. And I started up the hill, which was the instructions or recommendations from survival school. And as I got to almost to the top of the hill and I could see a path out here, the government go to hesitate just long enough. My I think actually my cheese suit got caught in some brambles and kept me from pushing these bushes open. And a Vietnamese round across closer to. Than four feet away the only thing he was in a hurry or didn't look my way. So that caused me to look around a little bit and the path. And then I saw these field wires across the way and I leaned up, looked I'd come down right and a gun range. There was a gun, sat down here about 100 yards and another one over here about 100 and 150. And so I reconsidered my actions to this point don't get too carried away, but I managed to get across that path without leaving a track with the boots and I thought if I got over on the other side and. On the hill I could hide out for that hour and check in and maybe get picked up. Get out of here. And I didn't realize when I got across all the brushes over here, I was in grass. Oh maybe a foot, foot and 1/2 high. And when I got to the edge and looked down it was a drop off into a bog. I wasn't going anywhere in that direction. So I sat down and opened one of the cans of water and at that point I was so thirsty I didn't think there was enough water around. I took two steps and I thought it was going to come out of my ears. All of the psychological and the shock effects. But I managed to drink it, forced it down through the can away. And about that time I heard voices were gathering up over here along the trail, and they were pointing and talking, and I'd heard some shots and hollering back and forth. They obviously found my parachute and helmet. So that eliminated that side. They're just really, we're going to come over here. And they did. And they came out and I did this and tried to get quite anything white out of sight and had down. But it turned out I I wouldn't go hide under anything. They walked up, tapped me on the shoulder and welcomed me to North Vietnam. There will be a fellow navigator with Jack and and to be able to share with them the the ground experience there at flying. We weren't the same plane, but at least we came back. We flew missions, we came back from missions, we shared our experiences and we we tried to keep ourselves busy so that we didn't go crazy between missions because the Flint mission flying was tremendously stressful. And you had to say, well, it's not going to happen to me, I'm going to keep going. And that's the way we survived the war. So when I didn't come back that day and Jackass. They're waiting for the crews to come back. We didn't come back. I'd asked him when I finally got back from the war, Jack, what did you what was on your mind that day when when we didn't come back? He said, well, I had to be philosophical about it, and he did. Somebody comes to the barracks and said Steve King and the boys got shot down. It isn't you break down and cry or anything like that because you've seen it happen, you know? Day after day or week after week before and that just it happens. But you're well you're just kind of at a loss but. At the same time, you know well. Could have been me. We had a few. Translators who are French and they could communicate with them. And we had some people to communicate with a French, well, that's a hell of a way to build an airplane. And they assembled these airplanes and I tell you it was death defying. Every time I flew, there'd be something wrong drastically, and I'd have to fly the same airplane, sometimes six or eight times, to get rid of all the squawks that make sure that it was ready to go into combat. That was with P40P39. Jim SRSLY arrived home from Vietnam as a triple amputee from the hospital in Japan. He was transferred to a hospital in Aurora, Co. When I got there and you start to get healthier and you start to eat Whole Foods and and you, you kind of are aware of what's going on in the world. Is where you have no time now to to sort of think about. What's really going on? You know, you might be going to physical therapy or occupational therapy that's going to take care of the physical needs, the psychological needs you still struggled with. Why did this happen to me? Have I been a bad person somewhere in my life? Is this a path that God chose for me? And I'll be honest with you, I struggled with that for probably five or six weeks. I prayed a lot, but I was praying for all the wrong things. I was praying for that burning Bush or that bolt of lightning that was going to show me a vivid picture of what the future had in store for me. That doesn't happen in real life. What I ended up having to do was I surrendered. My prayers to God were ones that said. I'm gonna go do my physical therapy, my occupational therapy. I'm going to do everything that the army requires for me while I'm here in the hospital and what the future has in store for me. I'm going to leave up to God. And when I did that and I surrendered, life was just much more simple. From that day forward, I didn't have to worry about anything. It removed that burden from me to be constantly searching for what's next. What does life have in store for me? And it's amazing. It's like you flipped an electrical switch. The whole world changed from that point going forward. Back home in Rochester, MN seriously pushed himself to stay. Active. He enrolled in junior college. He helped to form a new chapter of the Disabled American Veterans in Rochester. Ones that came out and got me were actually militia. They were in civilian clothes. One of them had a rifle. I don't mean to interrupt, but these are regular N Vietnamese. Civilians, they're like militia. Ohh, they're civilian clothes. I don't know how they fit into the system right, right there then. But like I say, one of them had a rifle and they started stripping me down. And of course when I got my pistol out over here, one of them pulls it out and looks at it and I don't know why. It was just a sixth sense. I just happened to glance up just as he was starting to come across and hit me in the head and I ducked and missed him and the guy with a rifle. Playing the cross and hit him with a butt in his chest, knock him back and I remember thinking you and I are going to be friends. I don't know about the others, but I like you. But they packed me down well. They started me walk, took off my boots, stripped out everything out of the flight suit. One amusing thing. I carried 1/2 a pack of salems because we had been told that Ho Chi men like those, and if Ho Chi Minh did, most everybody else probably would. And I carried some Winston cigarettes too. They pulled the cigarettes out, looked down and crumble them up and threw them away. And I said, well, so much for intelligence. But they started walking me and I realized if I walked very far barefooted, my feet were not going to be in a condition to do anything else. So as we started down the trail, I started watching and I found saw a route coming up and I hooked my foot in it and fell over. And convince them that I'd hurt myself when I got them to carry me all the way down the side of mountain. And we stopped in a little village they put me in in a house in back corner, on a bed. And I was there, I'd say between 30 minutes and an hour because it and it came in, tapped out and walked back up and I got in this, I called it up a. Wow. Safari wagon. It was as bigger than a Jeep, but not as big as you. See. Safaris nowadays, but open vehicle with a canvas top. And they put me in the back seat, one guy on each side. They're holding my arms like casserole and tie it up. But I looked up. As the fell on my left in English said, you're now the prisoner of the Chinese Liberation Army. And what I saw in front was a picture of mouse, a tongue and Lynn Powell, head of the premier and the head of the PP People's Army. And I couldn't put my hand up and do the marine salute. But I said something you are OK. You really did it to yourself this time. Because I figured I was going to to China because we were that close to the border. I learned over the next 24 hours that's why the gun sites were so good down there. The Chinese were running them all, and what we had rolled in over, literally that got us, was what we considered probably the best gun site in North Vietnam. Of course, now I knew why. And later in 79, when Deng Xiaoping came to this country, he acknowledged that they had 300,000 regular troops in North Vietnam. For the war. So that's what they were doing and it was also why we had been briefed about two or three weeks before that there would be no attempted to rescue us in the buffer zone right up near the border. That they finally acknowledged that those were the Chinese, and I'd have said overall I was well treated with them. They brought me something to eat. They want me to do a radio broadcast, which I declined with no pressure. And that night the common dot came in. They introduced him as a common dot. And through the translator said that if I cooperated with them that I would be treated well and I'll be taken to Beijing and be treated well. And I declined that kind offer also because in 1967 Beijing and the Moon were about the same distance from. Atlanta, GA, as far as I was concerned. I did not realize, did not know, I should say, that we had an F-104 pilot had been shot down in September 65, who was already in Beijing. And he came home when we did and I and our duced myself to him and told him my opportunity to step meet him. He said you made a good choice. He spent 7 1/2 years in solitaire. And. After the during the 24 hours with the Chinese. Why, I knew they took me around the next day to various gun sites would stop someplace and about 8 to 10 guys would come out in uniform and line up. And I called him the cheerleader, the head guy, and got out his little red book. And he'd read and chant and read it. Chant and they. The. The translator then would say. The US will surely be defeated. The Vietnamese people will surely be victorious. OK, that's nice. And one thing out of that, which really surprised me, was that almost everyone of these guys had a camera. And when the chanting and cheerleading was all over that, all getting around, they're all making pictures. So I had my fingers crossed that somebody were going to make a picture. They got out because I knew that my close call is probably going to be reported as killed in action. So I I cooperated with the picture making at that point as much as possible. But the that afternoon. They took me up to a place, I guess it was a either a subordinate or a corresponding headquarters where I met some more regular army. And. I had. I guess you would say a test of wills that started the chanting again and this time they won't even me to say it. And I don't know. I'm not gonna say that. And one of the guys I don't know. What they smoke with his eyes showed he had something more more than than issue. Maybe mole overholtzer? But he comes up with his rifle and puts the bayonet right under my chin and pops it up like that, while the translator's right here saying you must say it. And. I wouldn't shake my head. I just did kind of like that. And after two or three times like Gatlin for him saying you must see it, I finally just. Did my lips tightly, a grim. So I'm not going to say that. And an officer obviously came up and got this guy to back off with a rifle and but I wasn't too sure there for a while because I could. I could see he. The Ruffle board was clean. It was operable. But once that was over, back in the truck, back down to the where I'd been before. Yeah. And in an area where The Cave. But that was my my house right then and they let me take a nap and. The Commandant commander came by and motion like it and went and got in the truck. And went down. They turned me over to the North Vietnamese. And. I remember when when it made that offer and it go to Beijing and I said no, I want to go to Hanoi. You gotta look to have this kind of shook his head. So when he turned me over, I lay in her back out and I wanted to shake hands with him. And we did, which is part of the store because I hope to meet him later on. But anyway, the Vietnamese took him, blindfolded me and took me down. I'm pretty confident to Kelp airfield and I got a jet helicopter ride into Jalom right downtown. And on a truck ride across the river to the big prison while out. We refer to wallow as the Hanoi Hilton, but but but also panel Hilton tends to encompass all the camps. If you're in Hanoi, you're in the Hilton, although everybody with few exceptions, processed through the big prison initially and I went in the new Guy Village there. Learned I wasn't nearly as big, meaning tough and strong as I thought I was. Couple of little fellas. What a rope and get you to do and say things that you didn't plan to. And another one that got my arms up behind me for the better part of a day, convinced me to do some things. OK, from this point you would. Gather up your parachute. You might even be wearing it. Be a back-to-back shoot. And you mount the airplane from this side or you could come up the strut on the front. But made it work. And they said, OK, there's airplane flight up to Dong Ha, and you got a mission this afternoon. By the time we get on station there, then the tracer start flying up, they NBA knew the game is on. He wants the artilleries coming in on station and we start firing it. Then I'll get the tack air, they'll come up on station. And then I give them a target briefing. You have to tell them which runway heading, which heading to come in on. Which way to break out with the target is with the elevation is where's the friendlies? Where's the hostile fire? But we control the whole battle as a forward air controller. That's what we did. But we got up to North Vietnam. It got pretty exciting. Up there. And I went into the tent to do the paperwork and they were putting all of their gear into the V-25. And a two star general. I looked up and there he was and he said young man. I'd like to talk to you about your mission. And I said, Sir, I said. I came into this Air Force to work to fly for our country and and fight the enemy, and I said I had a taste of it in England and each assignment I've had since has had nothing to do with combat. And I said I think I'm as qualified to to be a good fighter pilot as anybody could be, I said. I can hit. The target consecutively right side up or inverted and I say. I can hit a target out of four consecutive loops. So that means every loop has to be perfectly round to be in position to fire in the target each time you come through. And it's very difficult. Most people do loops and they're sort of else shape. You move out and he listened to me and he said, young man. He said that's a hell of a story. He said if you can really fly that well, and I said, well, Sir, you could contact Colonel Mcnicholl because he's watched me do this demonstrations. I do and. And I said. He told me if I could ever get a transfer, that he'd make me a flag leader. If I could get an appointment to his outfit and he's in the 52nd Fighter Group, he commands it, he said. Sign. You'll have your orders within two weeks. Got a four-star General, General Haynes, another general coming up to Donghai to talk about what we had done on the 26th. All of a sudden we don't know that there's a bombing halt coming 1N. Everybody else knew. Us. And the North Vietnamese knew that there was a bombing halt coming, and they threw everything at us. They threw, I had the last guys, the F fours that were shot down before they went into the water. But we took so much fire, we wonder, like, what the hell is coming? On. And. By the stones will crumble. Better. Take it with a smile. And. Travel. Hi. Take it on winstrike. Mr. President, I've been home since Friday, been to two dinner parties. No one asked me where I've been from the past year or what I've been doing. In case someone does, what would you like me to say? They said, well, Colonel, you tell them that we are preventing the North Vietnamese from interfering in the democratic process of South Vietnam. I said, Sir, I can't say that. Ask yourself. Teams up on the shelf and all I have to show is this waste. Of time. Mama. World War Two. Was a was a total. Thing for America? We mobilize the entire country. Vietnam. One of the things that lousy war was that that was being run from the Pentagon, from the Washington, from the White House. The Secretary of Defense was micromanaging everything. And it was, it was like. Like we didn't want to win. Whoa. The. Past is gone. You better leave. It all behind. And dry. Take it all in. You went over there thinking you were doing something that you were supposed to do, and you certainly did not want to be. Told. That all the friends that you lost. Over there that their lives. Were lost for no reason. You did not want to ever hear that, nor do I want to hear that today. And I still. I mean, I get very wound up about that when I hear anyone talk about it in that manner, because I lost some really good friends. There. World. Only here for a. Short. While. Are you saying has anybody done that? No. It had been opened in I think summer, June, July, area 66. And. They called it the farm because out the edge of town and you could hear the chickens and the animals and things around and they named the buildings for things like the barn and the stable and the chicken coop. And they were, it was an old French movie studio, so there's a theater there that was obvious and swimming pool, and one was a pool hall. So all those names fit in about one of the guys that was living in front of the pool hall was a real character. One day, well, almost all the doors had these little openings and we called them people peeps for sure. And that's what they had opened up and look check on you every morning and during the day or at night or whatever. One of the guards came by one day and did that after he walked off. This fella taped to his neighbor next door says the first zoo I've ever been in where the animals look at the people and from then on it was the zoo. And boy, he put his arms around me and he said. Ohh, I've been hoping this day would come and he said I've told all of the people in this fighter group about your expertise and he said I want you to put on a show for all of them. And so he brought all the three squadrons were located in different places and the Palermo. He got everybody assembled and he said you're going to see something you've never seen before. But I want you to know one thing. If I catch any one of these fight you fighter pilots trying to duplicate what you're going to witness. I'm going to have you grounded. Bob Hoover believed, his bosses believed, and those who saw him fly fighters in those days believed he was simply the best there ever was, which makes what happened to him in combat all the more surreal. The day I was shot down. We were dive bombing. Some transports are feeding supplies into to the Germans in southern France there. And. We were attacked by 4 Foxcroft One 90s and we're just pulled off of the target of releasing our bombs and we're all split up. I pulled out of a break like this and I was up about almost 90 degrees and I saw this fuck wolf out here. And I just ignored it. About that time. I was here. And it believe it or not, it was a 90 degree deflection shot. Well, I I knew I had no choice. Fire was so bad. I just. Wrote it upside down and I hope that they were in. They wouldn't hit me again. And I just rolled it upside down. Fell out? Hit the water got tangled up in my. Passion. Lines. And then I sat there in the water, and I had. Shrapnel that came out through the bottom of the airplane. And I was in the water. Ohh all afternoon. And a German Corvette was searching for two of their pilots that had gone down. And they found me. And I'll remember for as long as I live. Trying to sink my escape kit because. I didn't want the Germans to cash it. I'm sure by then they must have had hundreds of them, but it was a little encasement that had a. Saw saw Blade encased in rubber which you inserted in your rectum. And it had a map, a cloth map of the area we were fighting in. And it had some chocolate bars, some other things that could keep you from from severe pain. This it was a Corvette and it had a like a ladder coming down with a platform on the bottom right near the water line. So finally they had a long pole with a hook on it and they hooked me in. Put me onto that platform. Not. Like 5 1/2 almost six years of prisoner. How did you find out you were going home and when you were going home? And tell me about that experience. Well, to put it all in perspective, when Nixon started the bombing again in May of 72, we were in the big prison there at Willow. And. Somebody that went to quiz as we called the interrogations, because that was easier to say and to tap. Brought back message that. Nixon is crazy, man. We don't know what happens now. But we had in our camp. One South Vietnamese prisoner and three Thai prisoners who were allowed out to work and do things. And of course they were speaking the language and they were, they were really our intelligence. And we got a heads up that 209 was the number. Literally, we're going to be moved out of camp. And sure enough, about a week later, 209 of us were moved right up to the Chinese border, deep in the mountains and a camp that we thought initially was new to us. We learned later on that others had been there ahead of us, probably who, I don't know. But we spent the rest of the of 72 there and over the winter and in October. We didn't have radios in each cell there. They didn't have power. Like we had back in the big prison, we had this little radios in each room and you got these propaganda broadcast, Hanoi Hannah, we call it the voice of Vietnam. All the garbage up here, they had to do it by quizzes. And one of the fellows that went early picked up, they were asking him, what do you think about this proposed end of the war, whatever this is in early October. And then I was called out right to the end of October. And he asked me, he said, are you disappointed there was no settlement in October? I said, you know, I didn't know they were going to be ones. How can I be disappointed if something I didn't know was going to happen? Well, go have me anyway. And kind of went on with that. And then over Christmas and holiday and New Years, it got really cold and we were settling down to all of us were looking to be there in the winter. And one night, the building I was in at the top of the Hill, Wonder Fellows woke us up, he said. We just had three trucks come into camp. So we all stayed up and we counted 17 trucks. You don't need that. Many to bring in. A month's load of food. Something is up. And. The guards came around that morning and let us out to go out to to to eat or to shave, whatever we're going to do. We had a little area, kind of old patio we could get out to in our building. And he leans, he looks around at one of the other guys and he does this. And then it goes back like that. Look, something is really up here. So we went back in and just so we didn't miss out on it, we all started rolling up our gear. That afternoon when the guard came around and opened it up and he gives us this which was a signal that A roll up red move we just all Landover padding our roll. He got a big smile on his face and right after dark they loaded us on the trucks. Headed back to Hanoi and about halfway down mid afternoon we stopped and had a little. Coffee break could give us water and little energy bars, coconut bar stuff. And instead of getting back on the truck, necessarily your own, they divided us out and four category and what turned out to be the first two release groups went back to the big prison, the third release group went to the one we called the Plantation and the 4th one went to the zoo. And excuse me, we've been back about a week and I was at the plantation in the third group and they called us out one afternoon and we lined up and the Captain Commander came over and he read us. The protocol from the Paris Treaty that that in itself required that the prisoners be notified within 48 hours of this date. And. They're told it and. They stayed there for a few minutes waiting for us to do something and when we didn't. They said OK, dismissed and we all filed back into our own little cells and then we went and hugging each. So gotta hope it's true, hope it's true. And in my particular case. I was pulled out and taken up to wallow. Turns out that after the first release group there was a little difference of opinion between the conditions for release where the everybody would be released in 4 equal increments over the next 60 days. So the and with the sick and wounded being released first. Well, the US expected that to be released. The second wounded, then four more increments, the Vietnamese interpreted by the second one. That would be in the first increment. So they had a little hassle about that and somehow they came up and released 20 guys just pulled almost at random, came out. So as that was going on I was pulled up to a second release group. Then they decided no, the count didn't work. So I went back to the plantation and then they pulled me out again and whatever the problem was, we were supposed to be released on the 1st of March and the camp commander came in and we had the big, you know, going away. Bring special dinner, blah blah blah on the night of last night in February. And then he told us, he said maybe you do not go tomorrow. There is small problem I will let you know. So the next morning he comes in and says I don't think so today and at night he said maybe tomorrow and then but by March the 3rd course of how the hell with it. I hope somebody got out of here anyway. And he came in that night and he says I think tomorrow, OK. Yeah, sure enough, the next morning. He comes in and came in. There was a group called. I forget the exact name. I didn't. But there were an Indian, a Canadian, a. Check and another Soviet Union type had to come around and inspect everybody. So they came through. We figured I think we might make it. Fair enough. About an hour later we started. Going up we got our go home close that would have been fitted for going out to pick them up, put them on and they walked us out the front gate and they had their little 20 seat buses out there and we all got on and headed over to the GLM. For the big trip home. The day I got out. I got a diversion going. I got some of the fellas that I'd worked with on his some of the escaped temps to start a fight. And once they started the fight. Got all the guard's attention, but half of the guards had deserted by then. We could hear the big guns about Ohh 5070 miles away and we got to the other side. And now we were away from the Germans for the most part, out in open countryside. After three days on the run in Germany, a very hungry Bob Hoover and his fellow escapee came to a farmhouse occupied by the wife of a German officer. Her husband was based elsewhere. Luckily, she spoke English. In exchange for some food, Bob wrote her a letter to give to the advancing Allied troops. The letter asks the Allies to treat her kindly because of the hope she had provided him. As he was leaving, she also gave him a pistol. Bob was on the hunt for a German airplane he could use to fly himself to the allied lines and freedom. As he continued to move around the German countryside, he was in and out of the lines of the Russian troops. The Russians were vengeful enemies. Bob witnessed unspeakable brutality inflicted on Germans by the Russians. Eventually, Bob made his way to a deserted airfield and started looking for an airplane. Actually I found one that was full of bullet holes but the engine was OK and it was full of fuel. And I said I'm gonna wait till a mechanic walks by here and I'm going to put the gun on him and bring him in here and help him get me the airplane started. So finally a German mechanic did come by and I pointed the gun at him and. Yelled and he and I most informed to come into the revetment and he walked in and boy he was just put his hands up and his face was just pale as a ghost. Friend showed Bob how to start the Falco Wolf 190 airplane and Bob decided it would be too risky to taxi the airplane slowly out to a runway. He simply firewalled it out of the revetment. Where it was parked. Well, I let it go and I went straight out of that revetment, got airborne, got the gear up and there was a 4000 foot ceiling. And I know more than got off the ground and I started thinking, you know, this is the dumbest thing you've ever done. Here you are. In an enemy airplane. And the war is not over and I I Air Force people come in and see you. They're gonna take an easy potshot at you. And you did. And I headed N until I got to the South, the North Sea. Then I swung West and I thought, if I've got enough fuel to get to Holland, I'll see windmills and I'll know I'm in safe country. Bob had eventually landed the German airplane in a field in Holland. What he had no way of knowing was that under Nazi occupation, the Dutch population had experienced the highest per capita death rate of any country occupied by Hitler's forces. Now that they had been liberated, the local population was not. Likely to warmly welcome a pilot who had emerged from a German airplane, he was immediately surrounded by farmers with pitchforks and other weapons. They were marching them down a road when they encountered a British convoy. Bob was able to describe his situation to them, and the Brits intervened. You sort of a hair raising and a very dumb thing to have done. You know, the war was practically over, but I had. All I've thought about every day, all day long was getting out and and capturing one of their airplanes and I just so motivated. The day Bob Hoover stole that German airplane and flew himself to freedom, he was 23 years old. I'd like to hear this. Well we got out there. Those are pulled out onto the ramp, but I saw that 141 out there of course working out there. My neighbor at at Craig had gotten out of the Air Force and was test pilot in 141 and I had walked out into one just for a left go to Southeast Asia. And I saw that airplane, the United States of America, and that big flag up there. And I told a lot of people when I walked down and walked up that ramp, I could smell the red clay out of North Georgia. I knew I was going home. Is that just an expression? Or did you? Really feel like you smelled. Started feeling like I'm headed home, yeah. Well, the the one question I want to ask you the the penultimate next to the last is a lot of things changed for you while you were a prisoner. You found out about losing your father and losing other family members and your wife. And. Again, I you know, I if you don't mind my asking what sustained you through that. Well, I had premonitions or indications, I guess you'd say on both. I only got 2 letters from my wife and I were there and they were six lines, but she only used about four of them. So she just said was the children were fine, they help a lot. Another one was I moved to Atlanta. To go to Emory, the children doing well. You're almost right into it. The indifference and in the case of my dad's, the one thing I got from my mother was a birthday card was signed. Love, mother. And. That was probably one of the really low points when I realized he was gone, because I was looking forward to to seeing my news in bad shape when I left. But I was looking forward to going back and seeing him again and. So when I got there to Clark. We've been there, I don't know, three or four hours and they came around, got me said there's a Colonel up here wants to see you. He introduced himself from 13th Air Force headquarters. And we're standing in the doorway to the. Little Ward area that I was in and I looked up and technician that had been sitting around was leaned up to the desk up here about 2030 feet. I don't know why I turned around. There's another technician back stand around over here. It's not going to be a standard conversation. What is it? So he started out casually told me about my aunt dying and my uncle dying and my father-in-law dying and. Then if Father died and then you wife got a divorce. And as I've described it, it wasn't a surprise, it was the shock of confirmation. The things I was hoping weren't true. But I had a sense, and it's kind of ironic, when I learned about more detail about my wife's divorce when I was up in the mountains and I hadn't gotten anything, heard anything. I went to quiz, and I ask an officer whom I'd known from way back at the zoo. I said I hadn't heard anything from my wife in a long time. I said, I'm. I'm wondering if maybe something's happening. It's no. I think everything's fine. And I said, well, I said I would really like to know. I don't want my children to be in hurting or have any problem. They said OK, I ask. And several months later I went to quails with him again and he said I asked, he said that think everything OK. As it turns out, that first quiz was within a week of when she filed for the divorce, and the second one was within a week of when it was granted. And they had sent it over, sent the paperwork to Hanoi to camp at the pension and since I didn't reply within 30 days, I wasn't contesting it. When you. First, lose your freedom. And I've said this to so many young people you don't know. What we have here in this country did. You can't see that red, white, Blue Flag. You don't know what that stands for. That's freedom. Most of the people that I've talked with are interested a little bit about my military career. As you know, I started flying the B17 August the 4th, 1943. I went to Europe in June. I got in there in June. The 12th of 44 had 520 hours total time. And I flew a couple of missions around England just to get a feel for the whole thing. And then on June the 21st I had my first mission and it was to Berlin. Now I had everything was backwards with me in the in the Air Force. I wanted to fly P38, so they gave me B seventeens. I wanted to. I wanted to fly a bomber to Europe and come back on a ship. So you know what happened? I went over the ship and flew back. I wanted to get a couple of missions into occupied. Territory, some short ones and get a feel for the whole thing. So the first thing they did was they gave me the longest one and that was to Berlin. And then of course I got shot down on a on a milk run which I wanted in the 1st place so everything was. Backwards, but you got to look. At it in a different way. I'm still here.