Gravity is the force that holds the universe Like the galaxy in which we live, it seems However, our current understanding of gravity Gravity can bend and twist the shape of space And, if that's true, then it's very interesting In its simplest form, the question is "how Let's look into it. puzzled scientists for centuries. The first sophisticated theory of gravity published way back in 1687. According to Newton, gravity was transmitted speed. the newest and most successful theory of gravity. In 1915, Albert Einstein published his theory as the distortion of both space and time. In his theory, these distortions could change and, of course, space itself. through the cosmos by means of a phenomenon He postulated that the speed of gravitational Thus, Einstein would say that the speed of Einstein and Newton are both strong contenders physicist of all time. I mean, I would pay good money to watch those to it, it doesn't much matter what either Physics is an empirical science and answering Well, first and foremost, you need to be able hard. Gravitational waves distort the size of objects. For instance, if gravitational waves passed width. Your height would shrink and width increase, and width shrinking. And that cycle would happen a few times as That's the basic idea. But do they exist? 1916, but it took basically a century for and then develop the technology to do it. massive object moves, most waves are ridiculously The only known way to get big gravitational tiny volumes and the mass of stars in an oscillating That sounds crazy hard. The universe is full of stars and many star system, but rather two. And, of course, some of these star systems our own star formed some four and a half billion and some of them are now black holes, which And in binary star systems, there could be The lightest black holes have the mass of The smallest known black holes are pretty in diameter. Those are just ballpark numbers. holes can get very close to one another and fraction of the speed of light and undergo appreciable amounts of gravitational radiation. away from Earth. Even if they emit a lot of gravitational radiation, makes tiny distortions of lengths and widths. That means that you need a crazy precise detector. what are called the LIGO facilities. LIGO is short for Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Each facility consists of two hollow tubes; The two tubes are oriented in the shape of to a mirror and reflected back to a detector. Using some very precise optics and multiple changes in the length of the legs as small It's just amazing. facilities in the US, one in Louisiana and facilities in Europe and Japan. The multiple sites make it possible for scientists waves are coming from. in 2015, researchers made their first observation two rapidly orbiting black holes crashed into away. It literally happened a long time ago in a is super important, but it doesn't tell I mean, you do get some information from when detectors arrayed across the Earth. For instance, the distance between the two or about 1,900 miles. If gravitational waves wash over the Earth, other. You can use the time difference to get a handle also depends on the orientation of the Earth not so precise. of gravity, ideally you'd like to know exactly black holes are invisible, that's hard to However, again, nature has helped us. waves, it's not the only way. Remember what we need is objects with the Black holes are perfect, but when stars die, Some of them make neutron stars. Neutron stars are less massive than black will do the trick. If two neutron stars could orbit one another that would be great. The collision would both make gravitational see using telescopes. The Earth's gravitational wave detectors And, about 2 seconds later, orbiting telescopes coming from deep space. After some analysis, both the gravitational the source was in the same location in the an elliptical galaxy in the constellation years from Earth. Given that we know the speed of light, that years ago. Furthermore, the gravitational radiation and at the same time. waves were simultaneously created, we can gravity. They both travelled for 144 million years seconds - and the two pulses arrived within small uncertainties that gravity moves at The difference is - ballpark - less than about two seconds after gravity, but the answer Gravitational radiation is emitted all the are moving very fast. That occurs just before the neutron stars Then the collision occurs, and light is emitted. Qualitatively at least, that tiny delay is Using what is called multi-messenger astronomy, from different kinds of detectors, we now of gravity. Einstein's conjecture back at the beginning is the same as the speed of light was something am much happier when you can make a direct If you enjoy learning about all of this cool poke that button down there to subscribe to That way, you'll be notified when we release And that's something everyone should want,