On the 6th of August, 1945, six B-29 Stratofortress bombers took off Three planes flew ahead to check weather Of the remaining three, Another carried instruments. The last one, a payload As they reached the designated target, the attack plane The plane, named after the pilot's mother, had a good view After the weather plane people were now starting their day, And then in one flash, it was over. The bomb their organs boiling in their bodies. Many more died of burns from the initial The bomb hit 50% of the population and it blasted humanity Three days later, a second bombing run obliterated a residential neighborhood Estimates of casualties here Hiroshima and Nagasaki will be forever It's the only time These bombs had a role But I've always wondered These cities were not big They also didn't The reasoning behind It has to do with the deadliest I tell you, the fires were burning a paper in the cockpit. This video is about allied World War Two. Before we start, Japan They slaughtered civilians on a scale This is well documented and it also lives But I also think that the image of Japan, The Allies were also involved and attacking civilians And today, I won't talk about that. So this is not just a history story. It's also a story about history, what parts of the past have remembered And to better understand all this, I had He's a professor and he specialses in the history And I'm also the guy You know, the two of you can play with see how much of your city Yeah, that's We'll get to Alex a bit later. But first, in which these bombs were dropped. So it's May 1945. Germany has just surrendered in Europe. The war is over. Everyone is happy. But it's also a bummer who have been working on This is a project to build They had done some tests and they kind of in real life. But no worries. They will see it in action very soon, because on the other side of the world, America is fighting Japan They have this tactic to island over two fronts. And the first You know, these iconic battles, It's basically all the battles I played In the end, the Americans land on Japanese The battle for Okinawa will be the last mission And it's a heavy fight. I mean, most of the time when people fight a battle and defeat is obvious, But not here. The Japanese defenders die because the Japanese high command They have this idea and if we make the costs very high, they will vote out the leaders or And so almost 99% of the Japanese This is the bloodiest battle And it kind of works. Okinawa really freaks Americans out. If this is the defense they're up against, how many allied soldiers are going to die They make some estimates, and really, On the one hand, and then maybe it could be a quarter So now this shiny new weapon and you get it. They just spent So they really want to And if the bomb does work, maybe there That would be perfect. But if you decide on using it, of this weapon? In the end The question then, of course, becomes They decide to form this little committee. These guys who get together What criteria do we need to decide this? Well, we have their notes they were talking about. They say it should have between Tokyo and Nagasaki And when you apply these criteria, On the list you see big places that has an arrow next to it, which maybe for us now is really insane We think of Kyoto It has all these historic shrines. But then they're like, We're trying to win a war here. I mean, the reason that he was famous is that all of them were bombed. But we'll get to that. If you look at the list, you see Hiroshima I don't know if you have the same feeling, If you've ever been you know, there's nothing set in stone You're just spitballing Some get added, some get voted out. But then again, most of the group project didn't have life or death impact After a few brainstorming session, down to four. They settled on Hiroshima, From these four, So why did they knock Tokyo off the list? Well, the reason that Tokyo's not on list And to show you why. We have to talk Dresdeb It's an important economic has all these buildings If you go there and take out your lonely such as the Frauenkirche, And it's also completely fake. They rebuilt the city from the rubble. All these buildings are not old at all. You see, the allies targeted Dresden They were firebombed. This is basically dropping burn bombs and The main component of the M69 bomb, becomes a clinging, fiery mass, And these fires can go on for days, This bombardment at the end of the war destroyed the entire city And Dresden, it wasn't even an important Dresden was one of the many cities And if you look at this map of Germany, This map shows with black percentages at the end of the war. This is what's left of Germany. You have cities like Mainz, Frankfurt They're almost completely leveled. Now you're thinking, of course, They needed to stop the war. So they're bombing factories that produce Well, at the start of the war, Less than a quarter of the bombs fell within an eight kilometer Wait, think about that for a second. 25% landed within eight kilometers of the intended targets. You can understand At the same time, they're losing insane At one point, than a soldier in the trenches And they were total meat grinders. So with this in mind, the British bomber command thinks well, Instead of searching Now we're just going to go for bombing Won't that really impact civilians? How do we feel about that? Well, people are going to making up their minds Remember, So people are figuring out how it is okay to use them. It's only a few years that it's the first time That was Guernica in Spain. You know, So with this new thing, people are still just developing theories And there's one guy Oh, my gosh, If you could attack a city to defend themselves, then that would just They would give up And British commanders that are bombing One guy, Arthur He sees politicians And he just wants to be clear. So he says that the aim of the bombing is about destruction of cities, about destruction of lives, Well, his nickname was Bomber Harris. So fair enough, I guess. So civilian deaths at this time are not It's not collateral damage. It is policy. And this really hits home They were not developed No, they were tested on mock They're thinking about things that even discussing moisture levels So did it the surrender of the citizens? We'll get to that again. Yes, Germany, They targeted civilians in London, Spain. In Poland, they indiscriminately and thousands of noncombatants, And then, of course, if you talk about hanging over all this, and I'm not saying but I do think that when we talk about the allies are just the good guys But life in history The question becomes, what are the limits to achieve your goals in this war? So you might be wondering what all this German Well firebombing has to do with its also believed that dropping enough bombs So they start with firebombing Japan. 2200 horsepower And it was an even better target Already in the twenties you have a pilot saying because the houses there are basically And so when you throw a bomb, designed to destroy a single house Well, you know what's going to happen. Americans have been bombing The problem they faced is that the war They didn't have these that they could target the war industry and so hundreds upon hundreds of B-29 And then in one raid in March, 45, B-29 raining fire 100,000 people died in this attack and it is actually the biggest number To put this number in perspective, the number of American losses It's bigger than the initial death And by the summer of 1945, Tokyo And remember that targeting committee, about what cities to bomb goes off the list because it's It's practically rubble with only There goes Tokyo. But this group has an even bigger problem how the Air Force with the prime purpose in mind of And this is a problem for the committee that's sort of intact to show Japan There's this conflict of interest. The Air Force doesn't care about that. They would not like reserve targets And so a city like Yokohama because it gets firebombed So now they're running out of targets. This leads to this really weird moment the Air Force to stop bombing cities And it even goes all the way to the top. The US War secretary, Henry Stimson. He tells the president he's worried First, he's afraid that the allies will be But then again, he's also afraid that a new weapon 'Would not have a fair The reaction of the president. He laughs. It's a funny joke. the contradiction And if you look at this map of Japan, You get a scale of the destruction. The U.S. firebombed a total of 69 cities. So you have major cities like Osaka, that are heavily destroyed. And then you have some smaller cities and Toyama Apart from estimates that this killed there are survivors At the end of the war, a total of 15 So there it is. The reason why Tokyo didn't get Nuke off the face of the earth. And some people involved in this, LeMay said If we'd lost the war, we'd And I think he's right. We're behaving as war criminals. But what makes it immoral Talking about the morality of bombing because that would lead Is it justified aim of war or not? There's endless debate so we're not going to finish that Let's talk about one of the principal aims That's if you just drop enough bombs They will press the government And it turns out it's totally false. It doesn't work that way. Right. It turns out if you bomb people, They become more rigid So that's not the case. You can still see it bombing But there's actually an interesting reason that much. In some ways, it's not as glamorous, You know, a bomb that shoots gasoline Right. And apart from that, there is also Firebombing is harder to deal with and it became sort of business as usual, is actually more Like if your business as usual What does that. Say? After the war, the use of the nuclear bomb Was it morally justified or not? Should it have been one bomb What if they had waited for the Soviet There really a lot of different ways And if you like this video, But for me, it's so weird breakthrough, that firebombing becomes And I think it really shows you how we choose to focus on some events how the narrative of victors is dominant, is not how things just happened, but Whatever you think of the atomic bombs, with thousands upon thousands of people and a lot of them had one thing in common So if you want to make scientific today, sponsor billion dot org, It's the best resource to learn about math and computer science And because they have a mobile app, It doesn't matter if you want to stop or that you want to build skills It is suited for everyone. You don't need to get bored They have the basics, I data science, neural networks, And each month they have new lessons. So if you want to check that out, has to offer for 30 days free of charge. If you go to my link or you can click on the link and the first 200 of you will get 20% off billions There was really no place but can we talk about the fact that this pilot named this plane Everyone's like Enola Gay. I've heard that name somewhere. Oh, yeah. It was about bombing Hiroshima.