You know, something happened and the founding of Nothing In between there was like 40 years of time. And in this 40 years, that regular people started using the internet. Now that there are so many smart people not just Silicon Valley, how do you connect people together with the people out there? How do we erase the barrier Community member and employees That's how we compete with Apple. Hi everyone. My name is Carl. I'm the CEO and co-founder of Nothing. I think Nothing is a company You know, in the beginning people Now people think We've only been making phones This year is our first growth year. Today the industry is quite boring. The entire reason why I'm a part of this industry was because of some of those more inspiring products in the past than somebody else has to become a creative company. That's how we thought about it. Yeah. So I was like a first generation immigrant as a kid. I was born in Beijing, You know, Sweden is known So I got a really good internet When I was 12, we had a really good teacher at school so I started making websites since I was 12. Music, I've done anime. I've done games like just all as long as we can get the traffic up. I didn't even know who Steve Jobs was I think the first Apple keynote I watched I saw the iPhone. I just had to buy it and it was only friend buy it for me at AT&amp;T and then But it was such a great experience. Like it's so different from anything else, the capacitive touch screen, like it's magical. So I grew up in Sweden, about the Chinese economy growing fast. After high school, My parents were really scared, I just want to go and see it for myself. I there's so much news I picked a place where I didn't have any all the factories were in South China. And so I just moved there from like going to markets, buying stuff It was a really crappy brand we made. But my parents were really upset. This is not a real job. And so after a year, I moved back So actually I went to the best And you know, at that time this was around like 2008 some of the biggest things that were happening like Microsoft, like Amazon, like Google. E-commerce was growing. You know, in my three years at school, best business school, zero time on e-commerce. We learned theories from like 100 years how to manage a factory, labor inputs, So I was like, school is supposed to set And the world is changing So I didn't write my thesis, And I left when I told my parents I was Their reaction was terrible. They were like, well, You can't be hired without a diploma. My plan was actually to apply because one of my friends was back then At the same time, I really like gadgets. So I had gotten to know The first one, it's called Meizu, And as I was contemplating to just move to China and join them. And I'm like, yeah, why not? I didn't have to write the application, I joined that company, Meizu because there was another company that grew He felt like he was first, and they almost made a partnership. So because they couldn't do a partnership, and grew very quickly. That founder was stopped going to work, If you're going to be like this. You're going to face a lot I ended up at this other company Oppo is one of the biggest Chinese focused on the offline distribution. And Oppo started OnePlus I mean, I was a really young person at that time. I was 24 years old, and the original idea for OnePlus was Xiaomi was online, right? They were the first to sell I'm like, hey, let me do international. So there was like a senior executive I'm like, it's a free opportunity. Nobody's doing it. So I got to do it. And I didn't know how to build a team. My first team were all English teachers, because just one year later, and then China team only did 100. So we're like, wait a minute, It's global. So then, you know, the entire company One takeaway from the OnePlus days it's all about the product. You can build a cool brand, you can build But the reason why people are paying you So if you disappoint them on the product, Next time, they're not going to come back. So I think most of the energy should be focused on But like I learned that I didn't want just integrating technology. You know, we would buy chipsets from we would buy different components, and we design and package and sell like and I learned a lot. But I didn't want to spend Like, why can't I be a part Why do I just have to integrate And it was just a gut feeling I didn't know too much about share price and stuff like that. But now, in hindsight, of the most successful companies, they're But I just knew I wanted to do something and not just integrating My initial plan was to travel the world I did that. I started doing that. I went to Greece, I went to Italy, and and eating at Michelin star restaurants. But after like ten days I felt like I was wasting my life. I went back to Stockholm, because that's all we knew. That's the industry we came from. It's actually one of the biggest consumer products in the world, right? Like a billion are sold every year. And the more important thing is the most important device we have. It used to be the PC or the laptop, but if This is the most important device. So we knew that if we were able and grow it to a certain scale, then there will be a lot of opportunities because the hardware I had never raised money before, friends who introduced me to other people One of my friends is like, He looked at the deck. Just just talk and it will go better. So I took his advice We almost called the company essential. We even bought the essential trademark But then we were like, wait, We couldn't come up with anything better, I stayed in Stockholm, and then by the end of the eight weeks, I mean, my dream is to be able Today, we're still just making with better design and better software. But I think there's something new But first, if you take a step back, Technology has always enabled Since the invention of the wheel or the personal computer. Steve Jobs called the personal computer It really allowed us to take our thoughts So technology always increases This is almost like a hard rule. But recently in the past 5 or 10 years, because the smartphone is not empowering Smartphone is a stupid machine. It makes us doomscroll social media, and feel not that good about ourselves or. But I think nature is going and make technology serve people again. And then if you go to 2020 when we start Nothing, it felt like the tech companies became evil and society and media was the oil and gas companies of the past. Something changed, and I just wanted Like, how can we inspire people Execution wise, Our entire thing has We want to be a tech company, right? But tech takes time and money to develop, The easiest way to differentiate It's fast. You don't have to do R&amp;D, you just have great ideas, and then you can just you And I was always a bit frustrated that just didn't feel like we could So I was like, wait, Maybe they don't have but at least they have creativity. So I decided to base the company here So we started with the design language. The positioning we wanted to take So very raw, very machine like on one side, but also very human on the other side. That's the balance we try to strike A lot of entrepreneurs before us, They all messed up So when it was our turn to make They were like, hey, there's been 5 or 6 entrepreneurs and we took a bet on them. We're not going to work We're just going to work We were like, okay, too bad, let's make that we can design something beautiful, something That's what we started with earbuds. When we started making earbuds, and nobody believed in us. We can only work Like this factory had no other customers. They would go bankrupt That's why somebody took a chance on us. This factory was terrible. You know, our engineering team would but also the interior, the mechanical And then we would also design What each stage of the factory Even so, the factory You know, on the earbuds, between the earbuds, and the case is So there's a spring They manufacture the spring incorrectly, So the first batch of earbuds we shipped we shipped were faulty in the first batch, I was like, okay, It's the first product raise money, fail. But luckily we moved fast. We rented two apartments We put 15 engineers in those apartments. So every day our engineers were on the factory floor, to supervise each station so that And then we turn the quality around. And for the first batch of users, But that was like already. Then there was a near death And we sold almost 600,000 of those. Smartphone is, like much more There's many more components, to beat to build a smartphone. We just play the game like, What's the next thing to do? The first few levels are easy, like let's That was quite easy. The hardest thing was that and the motherboard. Very small chip that connects the two, the IC chip connected to the display. Samsung didn't have any stock We had to buy from another supplier They didn't make the IC, but we didn't have any IC. A lot of cash. Phones are expensive to make, and we couldn't manufacture the product. Basically at that time. I went begging to all our competitors. Most of the smartphone bosses, Some kid trying to ask for IC chips, why should I give you any of my chips? Eventually we got some supply for the IC. Because we had paid so much money even manufacture the product. The biggest lesson Every time I felt the world was falling I just pushed through. And then looking back like half a year it doesn't matter. It's something small, you know? But at the time, a lot of things felt And one of the fundraising rounds, I was pitching investors for like two challenges like, oh, what's your vision? Why would this work? Have you thought about this? It's okay for a few weeks, challenged every single day and you're After like two months, Like in the dream, it was me standing to everybody like it's not going to work. And then, you know, And just sweating and just, you know, And that went on for a long time. And the fundraising went even worse And I'm like, okay, At that time I was still in Shenzhen I was like, hey, we're going to go party A lot of friends all flew to Shanghai We just forgot about work, And then my mood changed. And then when I got back, I don't know if it's going to work the getting stuck in a negative mindset, So when you were using it, obviously Which do you prefer? The truth is, I did a review for the iPhone. That one did 4 million views organically, I've never been able to do better than that. Our YouTube is kind of just That was the idea basically I think about marketing I only think about it from an efficiency perspective, I think every consumer brand that's grown from a small brand You've had to find a way to be way because the logic is very simple. If everybody spends 10% of their revenue your revenue is small, So if your efficiency is the same as You're always going to be a small company to be a big company. So for me, Creative creativity, if done right, A lot of people think, remember the Apple for great advertising, but actually it's Why? Because at that time thought provoking Super Bowl ad. They were the first. People were sharing it with their friends, But now there's no efficiency there to do something creative at Super Bowl. So you got to find the high efficiency That's what we're working on every day When I was younger and I was a fan I always wanted to learn more about them. How are they thinking Was there a strategy? But it was so hard to learn more Community is really interesting between the founding of Apple In between there's like 40 years of time has gone by, and in this 40 years, the most important thing that happened was Now, no matter where you are in the world, to all the best information. Like 40 years ago, to get to know about the world. Today, you can be on any small island and you get the same, almost Now that there are so many smart people Silicon Valley, how do you connect people together with the people out there? That is the long term vision the barrier between company and community? Community member and employees And we build this company together with creative people from all over the world. So that's why we also allowed We wanted them to be a part from the beginning until, and not just In regards to the phone 2a okay, we made the phone 2a I just wanted to see what what level I think our teams are really delivering Recently we just launched the CMF phone finish of the product, the users can decide themselves, the wallpaper of the product, We just handed it I just wanted to see and whether removable back cover You can unscrew the bottom right put other accessories on there. And then we took the CAD files, So now everybody can do 3D printing That's way more fun That's how we compete with Apple. Apple is like just sitting out the future for themselves, And then maybe it works, maybe it doesn't. Whereas we can build a future And the biggest change now is, the AI era, there's going a new type of operating system. Without apps like today, It's been this way for a long time. The palm OS days, the Symbian days, But if the future of computing have apps today, they also have to change. Now they're very much ahead of us in terms But if everybody has to start then we also have the opportunity to win this race. We can never win We can only use that But if everything is changing, has a chance to create the future. So what I'm really excited about is what the future of computing, what the Don't start a startup just to look cool, this is a cool lifestyle. It's not a cool lifestyle. I didn't have any gray hair before, It's great, but it's not for everybody. It's also really nice to see somebody your product or using your product. It's a feeling that cannot be replicated even better if they don't recognize you. If they don't recognize you, and the founder doesn't matter anymore. And they're just exploring the product, So although things are hard sometimes, So, you know, we talked about But I think at the end of the day, And if I can figure it out, then you It's not going to be easy. You're going to face a lot of challenges, you can probably even do