Hello, I'm Laura Bennett with German with Laura. And this is my first video in a ten part harder. In this video, we're going to talk so many German learners fall into. I don't want you to be one of them. So hang on. We're going to talk about these that you can make sure you don't make them. But before we get into those details, let's question: Is this series for you? Do you need to watch these videos? Well, I have come across so many German Rosetta Stone, Babbel. They're trying to go through a Maybe they're in a course, But the story is always the same. They get to a point of feeling stuck, a They're not making progress anymore. They're seeing all of these It's not being explained. It doesn't make sense. The confusion and the overwhelm grow. And many students at this point give And that's so tragic because So this series has been created for you so learning so that you can tackle the core cannot speak German in a logical fashion. So everything's in a particular And if you watch this whole series, you effectively learning just what matters, And I really, really am so Okay, so in this first video, like I said, mistakes that German learners And in the second video, I'll talk, then, What are the tips and tricks for actually adult learner of German? Then we're going to get into the actual So noun gender: You're going to learn how memorize a random 'der' 'die' 'das' Okay, there are shortcuts, I'm going to share them with you. So likewise with noun plurals, it's usually you just have to memorize the plural Good luck with that. But it turns out there are There's a whole system that we can use that Then we get into a section of this series together: the case system, right? So the video on cases, then These three videos right here, And what I'm so excited about with these out the window the conventional ten plus work with in order to master And instead, I'm going to show you one chart you will be able to actually understand why make them yourself easily Just one chart. It's possible. All right. Then after that: word order. Again, everything about this It's about principles. You're going to be connecting the dots on why things that we don't have in English? You're going to finally get it and It's one thing to understand. It's another thing to actually And we want both for you. Okay. Then we're going to also What I love about this is how it actually So you're going to be really connecting some with you. And then finally, my study tips videos where I'm going to give you concrete classic blunders that most German learners your advantages as an adult learner so that Right? That's what this series is all about. So that said, now let's dig into the Okay, so the three big mistakes that I see the beginning of their adventure of learning that children learn languages. They assume that German works the same way So the thing is, as a native English maybe opportunity to learn So now as an adult you're trying to learn world that your gut instinct would be to English as your native language as a child. But this is a grave, grave, grave It's going to cost you time and effort. And if you're like me, right, you've got lot of time to spare. So learning German as efficiently and attractive. And that is possible. But you need to avoid these mistakes. So what does it look like to try to So as a baby, as a child, we use what's has really gained in popularity. But it has a right time and place Not at the beginning. Not at the beginning, because when we're years to master our native language using constantly experimenting. It's trial and error. We're building a linguistic And this is really tedious, It's the exact opposite of efficient. Okay? And so instead, we're going to talk actually have very distinct advantages in leverage the living daylights out of them. Okay. So that's in the next video. But now firstly, let's talk One of the biggest ways that German departs in German that are going to And so you've maybe been coming across this it. So in this sentence, we have these 'e's, tiny changes. It's called 'declensions' and we're going to this series. But suffice it to say for now able to make these slight changes yourself It's not going to work. So this is not a one for one vocabulary swap 'woman' et cetera, and stringing it all together. Yeah, you put it together, but you also little alterations and there's a whole It's a little complicated, but the way that in this series is going to be the So you don't want to miss out on that. But now this second pitfall of assuming that ties in directly to the third pitfall, which with vocabulary. So since you have to make all of these tiny German, that's why it's a pitfall Okay, so our third pitfall: You cannot do this because It's not just this one for one vocabulary swap. You don't just learn the word for 'the' and and everything else in the sentence. It changes! Okay, so for one example, just The word 'die' translates to 'the'. But it is one of six words So this doesn't even make sense But we have 'die', 'der', All of these words mean 'the' and you So vocabulary--one side of the coin, but It's the glue that holds the And if you start learning vocabulary before only going to make it so far All right. So in this video, we've talked In the next video we want to talk about the German in the best ways possible. If you're not learning like a kid and you're English and you're not starting with The next video is all about how you can make some very particular smart choices harder. So before you click off to the side below on the 'Subscribe' button so that you this channel. Okay, you've done that. Wonderful. Now I'll see you in that next video. Hello, I'm Laura Bennett with German with part series on how to learn If you haven't already watched my first see German learners fall into all the time, you continue watching this video. In this video, we're going to talk about you are learning German. You have to embrace being a white belt. 2. You need to leverage the advantages 3. You need to build a very So, when it comes to being a white belt, this learners miss this and they make So instead of doing an instant immersion all angles and trying to work on all the on listening comprehension, and reading Instead of doing that, you need to break start where it's very, very simple, even want to sound like an adult right away, even But this is a terrible blunder, okay? You have to be comfortable being a beginner. That's what I mean by This means, for example, that if someone you're a beginner German learner, you can't be able to know the German where you could because I only started playing a few years from time to time.&quot; No, you're going to just it. And that's fine. Okay, so we have to break learning German, into its component parts. And you have to start at the beginning being black belt right from the beginning. There are so many tips related to this my top ten study tips. But before you might watch that video, let's ways that you can learn So the second way is: leverage Okay. And what this looks like, That sounds so scary to most people because English. Right? Maybe you had a really to teach you about pronouns and verbs and terrible at it. And it was But, but, but, but you have to have to have that you already have Okay? Because, if you can bring that a daily basis without thinking about it, if refresh your memory or maybe learn correctly parts of speech and how they all work stuff, then you can go on to learn German can appropriately compare and contrast the framework for English that This is so crucial that I actually created Learners'. At the time that I'm recording such a game changer for so many German for, as well. So you should click below down that 'English Grammar for German Learners' series of videos, you can then go over and leverage your advantages as So then speaking of grammar, that brings us build a very specific German grammar foundation. Grammar is also a really huge topic and probably even years. But there is kind of a Pareto principle at grammar that you need to learn that's going because it's going to be what And then there's a lot of other grammar road and you're not really going Definitely not at the beginning. So what are some of the topics that We talk about German noun gender, plurals, patterns, verb conjugations, pronouns. I cover all of those topics in Okay. And we're going to start with German about starting to learn vocabulary, which is noun gender first so that you can utilize sense of German noun gender. Because ,hint, it is not just a random you have been seeing in the apps or software There are patterns, there are principles. It gets way easier. All of those shortcuts are in my next video here on the side. But before you do that, button down below. So, you know, when I come out with a new Gender' next. Hello, I'm Laura Bennett with German with Laura. And this is my third video in a ten part harder. In this video, we're going to talk noun gender efficiently and effectively. So what is German noun gender? German noun gender is a grammar system that feminine or neuter, with every single So if you've been working with popular apps vocabulary building, you have possibly coming in front of all of the nouns. Conventional wisdom tells us that we have to all nouns. But newsflash, this is really nouns and learning a 'der', 'die', 'das' in is very difficult to do. Now, if you've already been watching some exposed to this idea that there are noun much easier to learn German noun gender. So my first point, my first tip in this noun groups and endings. Then secondly, though, and this is also new we can best internalize this information. We have to know where to start with this groups are so much easier to work with thousands of nouns, we still need to have this whole program. That's what we're And then my third point in this video is can really supercharge your German learning So point one, the noun For those of you to whom this is brand new examples. So masculine noun endings 'ig', i-g; and again 'ich' note the exact spelling is different, as in Right? And these words mean Okay, so semantically they have But it's just how they're spelled. It's these particular endings that So whenever you come across a noun with it's going to have a 'der' in front of it. That it's going to be 'der Faustling', Okay. And then for additional examples, it 'der Campus'. But the reason why I have these three so many noun endings; there are about 45 of those, though, we can subcategorize into the additional noun endings that you And the reason why we divide them is because and 'ich' that are ironclad. There are no exceptions to these endings. Okay, so no exceptions. Okay. And then there are the other body of here with 'Diamant', 'Motor', and 'Campus', these endings. And so we save those for a exception lists that go along with them. Okay. So those are examples We also have ,of course, feminine noun Okay, so we have the same set up here. There are some feminine noun endings, most with no exceptions, and those would include 'keit'. Okay, so when you come across German that you're going to have to pair a 'die' Freundschaft', 'die Wohnung', 'die Eitelkeit'. Okay. The benefit of learning these 45-ish across one of the dozens or scores of other automatically know its gender. It is not random, okay, It is not random. But then we also again have additional 'ur', that are generally feminine, So we 'learn those a little bit later in the game. We start with the ironclad ones first. All right, and then with some neuter examples. We have 'Madchen', 'Buchlein', 'Etikett' These are also the surefire ones. That's where you start. And then down the road you can learn all of and i-e-r; m-a, right, and the Okay. So that's the idea of Now we also have this concept of German noun because with the noun endings, like I semantically unrelated. Okay? The only thing that the nouns will The ending that is associated But with German noun groups now will have endings. Maybe it's a monosyllable or will still be masculine or feminine or of the category that it belongs to. So, for example, we have masculine groups elements or currency. So that means that the month of September one of the months of the year and it's in So, then we have weather elements such as Regen' for rain, right? And these are all der,der,der. They're all masculine because Yeah? And then so likewise with the and 'der.Euro'. So that's the concept of groups. So when it comes to feminine groups, some of and flowers. So we have, for example, 'die We have 'die Melone' for melon All right. And then with neuter noun groups, 'das Gold', 'das Kanada', (see note Again, because, not how it's spelled or it belongs to one of these categories. So this brings us now to point number two of information. And my tip for you is that you this information right from the get go. Instead, you want to have all of the reference it. So that you can actually practice applying that reference material. And the benefit of doing it this way is that your short term memory, you're going to because you're putting it in So you can find these various lists all over website. You can click the link down in the I'm also going to share it with you right now. Okay, so here on my website you can check Essential Guide', right? You can, of course, read the whole thing, the noun groups like we were just talking about. And you can see here under the So many options we were talking about. Weather, a little bit ago. So just to check that out. Okay. So for example, 'der Taifun', Okay. And then I also have listed All right. So then you can check out And then you get into the noun And those are like some of them we had the 'ling', for example. And again, you click on it and you can see is the case. All right. So by referencing lists like this, one, you But again, two, if you reference, reference, by, say, writing out simple sentences with internalized very deeply and you'll get reference the list anymore. So the process that I would recommend to word, come to a place like my website and does this have an ending on it that I can neuter? Right? Yes or no. And then if the answer is no, then I would go I can associate with being either Okay. And most nouns are going to fall into Sometimes we have nouns that have both a group such as Spring. Right? The season of the year that is a happens to have the masculine Okay, so when you find that new vocabulary and the groups to see if it applies. And then you want to really leverage your that extra analysis step and kind of recite masculine because it has the ending 'ling' noun group for days, months and seasons, right? And if you work on it in that way, making that's going to be much much more effective learning of thousands of German Okay, so now point number three. A couple other memory aids that are really work with your imagination. Make it visual. Very important. You may have noticed in So way back 20 years ago when I first going to associate masculine nouns with the blue; neuter nouns with the color green. Okay, so you can choose whatever colors you effective memory aid. Our brains hang on to that information better. It's stickier, if you will. Okay, so whatever colors you pick, I feminine and neuter. And any time you write down a masculine word, write it down in a with that color. Imagine it in red. If you're learning 'der Tisch' Not any other color--red, so that you can word table, which is a masculine noun So we can take the same concept of using the So not only do we associate red with with neuter, now we can also have people genders. So, for example, I associate Okay. And, then, this is my favorite part. You can use a technique called Memory Palace and think of them all in blue, okay? And associate them with the Queen of England. Let me give you this example. So you have the Queen of England, right? She is wearing a blue blouse (Bluse) that is It has this big, ghastly blue Out of nowhere comes flying this blue And he pokes her right in the 'Schulter'. Okay. And that is to help you. These wacky mental images help you remember: blue, and they're being associated And you can do this for masculine Okay. So in an upcoming video, You can look forward to that. But in the meantime, continue on to the next tips for learning German noun plurals There are principles and patterns that make You can do it better and faster. I'm going to show you how in the next video. Hello, I'm Laura Bennett with German with Laura. And this is my fourth video in a ten part harder. In this video, I'm going to share will help you accurately predict German This video stands on its own, so if you videos in this series, you can So the thing about German noun plurals is taught as being completely random, just and every noun. But the truth is there are principles and much more efficient and effective process. Firstly, let's think about what As per usual, in English, it's way easier. We really have just one Table becomes tables, flower--flowers, In a handful of instances we have to add an 'ies'. Doesn't happen very often. Then when it comes to true outlier plurals those. For example, man becoming mouse--mice and then a handful of nouns that all. In contrast to English, German noun modifications that we make to German nouns noun is spelled, what gender the noun has in noun, and which syllable is being emphasized. In my system I use six endings. Here they are. Now, if you've worked with German plurals that the 'en' plural is used by 90% of used by 90% of masculine Then add to that that most of the time if loanword, it's going to take the 's' plural. This covers a lot of nouns, But there's a problem with this system. There are so many common everyday nouns that other plural endings, such as the no change what these two dots are right here. That's the umlaut. And the 'er' and umlaut ending. So, for example, to say family members those use the no change ending (see note plate (Teller) and bowl (Schussel), fork those all use this no change ending and And window (Fenster) and pillow Right? So common common everyday And it's the same concept for That's things like chair (Stuhl) and foot Book (Buch) and light (Licht). Words again that you use all the time. So just working with this information But I have a plurals hierarchy flowchart account and shows you how to accurately almost 100% of the time. German noun plurals is such a big topic that my German foundations course. What I'm going to share with you here now is also click down below in the description on article that I wrote on German noun plurals, you more examples of how to work with Okay, but for now, here we go. First, the meta overview. Okay. The way to think about this is that we existence, and it's going to go One, two, three, four and five. At each of these stops, certain nouns are ending indicated by the arrows that point middle. Okay, so this chart uses four are determined like I was talking about earlier. So at train stop number one, it's all about how the noun is spelled. If you have particular endings that are off at train stop number one. In train stop number two, we have Okay? At train stop number three with the to be about how the word is pronounced, Okay, Train stop number four So this is about how many syllables the noun Okay. So now to give you some So train stop number one. You always have to start at one, right? This is hierarchical. So whatever your noun in question is, you which has been color coded, right? With red for masculine nouns, green for then black for endings that can be any gender. Okay. And if your noun has one of these with 'chen' or it ends with 'sal', it gets whatever ending is being indicated by the arrow. If that doesn't apply to your noun, however, two and we ask a different set of questions at that point. So at train stop number two, we have all already get off at train stop number one. Okay, so that's going to be polysyllables, nouns get off here and they take this 'en' plural. Right? Because, again, 90% of the time, plural. Then we have what I call weak nouns. There are three different categories of now, because it's the most So again, all male persons that did not having a particular ending are These are usually going to be professions 'Piloten' or 'Diplomat' becoming 'Diplomaten'. If that, however, doesn't apply to your noun train stop number three. At train stop number three, we have English the 's' plural. And at this point, we have to pay attention Okay. If it's an English word that gets off that we say in English. So, for example, 'das Meeting' in German, way that we say 'meeting' in English. We're not saying in German 'meetING', we're So it gets off a train stop In contrast, though, the English loan word syllable. Not how we say it in English. In English we say 'TALent'. In German you say 'talENT'. And because of this difference, 'Talent' It does not get off at train stop number three. Then with the French loan words at this English loan words. The French loanwords syllable, such as 'Fasson' will get off Emphasize on that final syllable, All right. So then if train stop number keep traveling to train stop number four, remaining monosyllables get off. So the single syllable nouns such 'Licht'. Okay, so now the thing is, if your it's going to be either a masculine and then it's going to take Or it's going to be a neuter And it's going to take the 'er' and umlaut plural. So 'Ball', as a masculine And then 'Tisch', check this out. This is an important point. It's going to still take the 'e', but that forced to leave off simply because 'i's So we can't umlaut this 'i', and then that 'Tisch' just 'Tische', right? No umlaut. Then, so likewise, with the neuter 'er', and then we umlaut any time that we can. So we can umlaut the 'u', so we do. But we can't umlaut the 'i', so we don't. And we get 'Bucher' and 'Lichter'. All right. So that leaves us Train stop number five, the So the only nouns that are still left on the of two categories. We have masculine polysyllables that look have any idea what they could possibly And then we have neuter polysyllables that pronounced differently, such as 'TalENT', right? With that emphasis on the final syllable, 'Mikrophon'. So these nouns get off here Awesome. So when you combine this plurals that get paired along with it, you can 100% of German nouns. This is an awesome system. Again, for more, click down below in the can read up more on this topic. And, then, in the next video, you don't want about the case system. Why is this important at this Because when you are building vocabulary, words just on their own. To drill 'der Tisch', 'die That's not so great. If you, however, practice within context, And, by context, I mean writing short, very 'the table is big', 'the tables are big', But you can only do that kind of drilling So again, that's going to be I'll see you there. Hello, I'm Laura Bennett with German with Laura. And this is my fifth video in a ten part harder. In this video, we are going to talk causes wailing and gnashing of teeth. If you haven't watched the previous videos later. For now, let's tackle this topic together. So the German case system is complicated. It is confusing. It involves a lot of terminology that causes cases themselves, nominative, Then you have to understand what are these cases? How do you use them? When do you use them? What does this have to do with subject nouns. Yikes! So the bad news is, this is hard. And secondly, you have to learn it because fluent in German, if you don't know The good news is I'm going to show you step can nail it. It is totally possible. Hang in there with me and keep in mind that It's called 'English Grammar for German Learners'. You can click below in the description to can sign up for that free course when you're greater depth in that free course, but for of the German case system. And in order to do this, I firstly want you so important, why you have to learn it. And to do that, we're going to start by leverage this amazing advantage of having already. You know, on a subconscious The patterns and the principles that And if we can bring that to the forefront of compare and contrast it with the German sense. So let's look at this The woman sings her little baby a song. The first thing I want you to do is The people, places, things and ideas. Okay. We have three. We have 'woman', 'baby' and 'song'. Okay, so now I'm going to put these That's what I call them. And I'm going to color code them, Okay. So firstly, I'm going to change to the and then two variations on that sentence. So it's still all the same nouns. Okay? And now I'm going to put them into Okay. So 'the woman' in the first sentence going to be in an orange slot and 'a Okay, So now the thing that I want you to very important, is that every sentence has first, the orange slot comes next So what is inside the slot changes in particular order. English has very rigid word order and this opposite of German. So in sentence number one, 'The woman This sentence makes sense. Sentence number two, when we flip things song.' This still makes sense, but what We've moved these chunks of nouns We've shifted them around and now we're And now in the third sentence, worst of all, This rearranging doesn't even make sense. Okay, so now with all of this in mind, German. We have 'die Frau' still still orange, 'ein Lied' still yellow. Okay. But now when I rearrange these slots, words coming directly in front of them that rearrange them in German, the Okay. It stayed the same in English and the themselves move around. So 'die Frau' is now over Okay. And in number three, 'ihrem kleinen number three it's at the end. I need to write 'the song' here at the end. Now it's at the beginning. Okay, so this is a very, And what I want you to know about this is make sense, but they all Okay. So we saw with the English versions they became completely nonsensical. And we also saw that the color coding Pink, then orange, then yellow. In German, in contrast, the What's staying in them stays the same. Pink is always 'the woman'. Orange is always 'her little baby'. 'A song' is always yellow, but those things, German has a flexibility here that English the case system. I'll get into the details of that in a moment. But for right now, let's dig in to English original sentence. 'The woman sings her little baby a song.' case' and the 'objective case', although before because as far as English is But if we're being technical about it, nominative case because she is She's the one taking action. The subject noun always goes into the whatever language. Okay? And in a standard sentence, We saw with the English examples, Then next comes the verb, the action And then in English are two remaining nouns, object nouns. Object nouns Whatever is not the subject of the sentence how simple it is in English. So technically, then, 'her little baby' is Okay. And that's how simple this is in English. In English, it's all about the actual order . In German, though, the cases are The objective case is going to split into the 'dative case'. Let's check it out. 'Die Frau singt ihrem kleinen Baby ein Lied.' Okay, so in this version of our sentence, we have the subject noun still The subject noun always goes The verb still coming next. Then we have still the same But 'ihrem kleinen Baby' needs to be in the noun, and 'ein Lied' needs to go into the now. So now this begs the question, how on object and which noun was the indirect object? The subject noun, that's Whatever's taking action in the sentence and come first. But with any of the remaining to use the accusative case Okay, so we're going to break this down by German simultaneously one step at a time. Here we go. So in English and in German, possible is going to contain just two the nominative case, and then the action Okay, so we have, for instance, 'the woman'-- goes into the nominative case. That's the case used specifically And then boom, the action that she's taking. Okay. So this is one sentence pattern And the thing to notice here is that in a German, the subject noun, aka the nominative and then be followed by the verb. Okay, so now what if we want to What if we want to say what she's singing? Okay, now we can say 'the woman sings a we've added in another case because we've German has to go into a case. So I'm going to continue analyzing the lens. Okay, so now 'a song' is going to go it's playing in this sentence The direct object is being The subject is singing what? She's singing a song. The song is being sung by the woman. It's being directly acted upon. It is passive while the subject Okay, so now what happens if we Okay. If we want to add in that additional who the song is being sung to or Who is being given the song, if you will. Okay. That is going to go into the dative And here, arrows can really help us out. So if we have 'the woman', the subject noun connected to the action that she's taking, song' that is being acted upon. Okay? And from 'the song' we move backwards that gets inserted in between the So the reason why we have this language of of how it works with these arrows, right? The subject noun, 'the woman' goes directly gets to 'her little baby' Or, in other words, a different way to look nominative case, the verb, We couldn't say 'the woman sings her We're missing something there. We've skipped over the direct object, which sentence setup. So we have the first pattern; now So we'll do this again, essentially. Okay. So first sentence we can have Right? That is a sentence unto itself. That's our first pattern. Or we can move on to the next pattern Right? So then the principle here is that after that nominative case is identified, German sentence, will be the Then the second noun that can be added, and to be a direct object in the accusative case. This as a default, of course, we're So then after you have a direct object added yet, it is going to be who is being which we have to put in the dative case. So I know that this is complicated still, vocab in a long time, or if you did, at experience. And you need to keep in I know this, and this is exactly why I Learners' course, which again you can click new tab with that link so you can register practice more sentences such as these, where noun? Where is the direct object? Where is the indirect object? Right? And practice using these three accusative and the dative. So all of this has been information on what based on the role that the noun is playing But how does this relate to the German beginning, where we looked at 'the woman scrambled version. So let's check that out one more time. So again, in German we have 'die Frau', (the of the sentence, even when it moves to order. And 'the song' is always the direct though its position in the sentence is indirect object in the dative case, even So what is it that allows us to mix around of our sentence? That is, dat ta dat taaah, And they are these slightly different nouns. So declensions are You cannot use the case system unless you you can appropriately, slightly change the nouns and going into these different There are three elements that impact And I'm going to tell you more about them in make these slightly different changes German. So you need to know what the three words. Make sure that you click below on the come out with new information. And again, if you haven't already done this, that will open up in a new tab so that you Grammar for German Learners' course where All right, now I will see you in the next video. Hello, I'm Laura Bennett with German with part series on how to learn This video is on declensions, which is a case system. So if you haven't already first. However, if you haven't seen the You can catch up on those later. If you have already watched the video on the This is the next video to watch. Here we go. At the end of the previous video, we were were happening in German sentences. And that's where we want to start again now. So check it out. In a sentence such as 'Der grosse Mann heisst Tom) we have, for example, this 'r' and this called declensions. And in the next sentence where we say, 'I Mann) we have this 'n' and And in our final example: 'Ich gab jenem declensions here with this 'm', some more So now the thing about declensions and how these slight little changes, these single in German that communicate the case to us so sentence. So to directly continue what we the case system, if I analyze these nominative case. It's the subject of the sentence. And these particular declensions of the 'r' And in the next sentence, the 'ich' is the is now the direct object of this sentence. And that's communicated by these And then in the final sentence, we have subject of the sentence. Now that 'poor freezing man' is the indirect And then 'eine Jacke' is the accusative Whoa! So again, the whole concept here is German, in order to communicate who is who What's the direct object? What's the indirect object?) and, therefore, use the declensions. And the thing about declensions is that we or more different charts. Wohoa! And so this is really, really overwhelming. Everything gets spelled out for you and you say 'the' in all of the different ways the different ways in German. And these are the declensions that you 'reich' or 'arm frierend'. You have all of these different charts and mixed endings. It is so confusing! If you have actually tried looking into the this video, you know exactly But, the good news is, there is an easier with declensions. Check out this table. This is my 'All-in-One Declensions Chart. We have five declensions, we have 'r's, 'n's, we have 'm's. And then every once in a while we have no this dash. Okay, so this whole chart is made And again, these declensions have to go on nouns so that we know: Which noun is the subject? Which noun is the direct object? Which noun is the indirect object? Therefore, what case it's in. Right? All the cases are listed here on the here across the top. So we're taking into account That's why it's so important to know the nouns. Then we have the case, right? We have to know that too. We have to know the role that the noun 'All-in-One Declensions Chart' to give us one of these 16 intersections of this chart. So why would you want to work with this chart? Right? This looks complicated. This looks like a lot of work. Well, you need to realize what The alternative to working with this one charts. That's the conventional way to learn . They're charts that look like these. So this is a chart of specifically all Okay. Every single one of these words means 'the'. It's just a matter of if it comes in front gender noun, or if it's in the nominative But this is how you say 'the', right? And the thing about these charts, (So you multiplied by ten, if not more), These charts are complicated and confusing That will never help you truly speak German they're spelling everything out for you. They're saying, okay, here's the chart for saying 'a'. Here's this chart for strong adjectives and mixed endings on adjectives. It's a lot of stuff to keep track of, And instead, you can learn just So check this out: 'r', 'n', 'm', 's'. These are the declensions for masculine Remember that: 'r', 'n', 'm', 's'. You see them here at the end of these four German. Then, look at the 'All-in-One 'n', 'm', 's'. Okay, so the only one declensions chart And I will teach you in this video and in me), how you can know which of these so that you can nail declensions 100% of the time. Okay, this is totally possible. You can do this. So now, that said, keep in and declensions, this is such a huge topic, three weeks talking about this, right? This is one short little video where I'm of how declensions work in German. But normally we study this for three weeks. It's a full 50% of the entire German big, important topic. Okay. So that said, let's look now at those beginning, but now through this lens All right, so we have 'der Reminder, 'der grosse Mann', this is in the the sentence. We know that 'Mann' is a masculine noun, it a male person. So that means in the 'All-in-One have to be at is where masculine So that's going to be right here. And you can see that then reflected in the 'Mann'. There's the 'r' and there's the 'e'. All right. So now, second example, 'Ich kenne einen nominative case is the 'ich', followed talked about in the previous video to using Okay. We still have a masculine noun Okay, so we're still going to be in this accusative case. So we've just shifted to a new section Now we are right here and we can see Cool. All right. Third example is 'Ich gab jenem armen, If we analyze this sentence, we still In the standard sentence, the nominative be first, followed by its verb. Now, what is it that I'm giving? I'm giving a jacket ('eine Jacke'). That makes that the direct object. Okay. And to whom am I giving it? To 'the poor, freezing man'. That makes that the indirect object and case. So now, in terms of our chart, right, in the dative case. That puts us at THIS intersection of the that in the declensions, right? The 'm' is right here and then we have two So this is all well and good, but You need to know how to do this for yourself. And the way to do this for yourself You need to learn about what Declension patterns are how you know which onto which word. There are patterns for this. You're not going to hear about this anywhere else. In the description below, click to open up free pdf printable of the 'All-in-One patterns which you're going to learn about resources correctly. Then finally, if you haven't already, click come out with new videos. All right, next I'll see you there. Hello, I'm Laura Bennett with German with part series on how to learn In the previous two videos we have talked If you haven't already watched videos five first before continuing with this But, just so you know, if you haven't catch up on those later. All right. So declension patterns--this is have in order to pick out the correct 100% of the time. We're going to start by looking Okay, so in this incomplete We can easily identify them We have the noun 'Mann', which is a male person. Then we have the word 'Frau', which is a female person. And then finally the word 'Baby', which is small person or animal. Those are always neuter nouns in German. So we have these three nouns, and coming in blank after them. And that's where we need to put in declensions. That's where we need to indicate We're talking about a man, a woman, a baby, else. So this poses a problem in German. This sentence can mean three distinctly declensions we use, right? So depending upon how we change these This 'dies' which means 'this' and this 'the', and 'jen', which is the How we end these words, what declensions saying 'this man gave that baby to the man' or 'the woman gave this It's confusing, right? So what do we want to say here? The declensions have to help us So let's say we decide on the meaning That's what we want to communicate. So now in English, this is done precisely We know who is the subject, who's doing We know to whom that other person is being given. All because of the order of the words in English. It's the man who's giving the woman the baby. This is clear to us. But in German, as we just demonstrated It's not about the order of the words. The order of the words can stay the same, something very, very different. So let's talk about the process here. How do we figure out which declensions Well, it's the same process with the route that I'm going to teach you. But first, the commonalities. We have the same starting point. The very first thing we have to do is which we actually already did. I'm going to recircle them, But we have a masculine noun here in 'Mann' neuter noun with 'Baby'. Okay, so that's step one. Step two is harder because it is not a constant. The gender of a noun in German is constant. 'Mann' is always going to be masculine and 'Baby' is always going to be neuter. The gender of nouns doesn't change, but the does change. That's the 'case' of the noun like we've So we need to figure out which case So, to kind of recap what you've been standard sentence structure and this is a 'Mann' is the subject of the sentence, and the nominative case. So this needs to be a Then this is followed by the verb, which All right? So he gave and then we ask And the answer to that question is going to the accusative case. So the person who was given is 'that baby', sentence. It goes into the accusative case. So now ,next question, to whom was And the answer to that question is 'the woman'. So 'the woman' is going to go into the particular sentence is that Whoa. Okay, So again, reminder, this is hard possible here on the case system, coming up in just a few minutes more. So you're going to have to practice this. You're going to have to practice this a lot. Hopefully the concepts are making sense. But in order for you to really have all of able to use it, you're going to have All right. But in any case, we have 'Mann', 'Frau', feminine noun in the dative case; So we've completed our first two steps of again is constant, and identifying the case sentence; changes dependent upon the context. We have both of those elements figured out. So now what? Well, in the conventional way of learning turn to very specific charts that give All of the different possible And then you'd have to go to another chart And then you'd go to another chart for all have to pick out the correct version. Let me show you a chart and So the conventional way, traditional way, This is a chart for all of the ways And in our sentence we needed to say 'the case. So you'd have to find the right spot it's a feminine noun. It's in the dative case. That's where these two intersect. And so the word is 'der'. And so then you would know to plug in 'der' particular necessary form of 'the'. But again, now you'd have to go to another 'this' so that you can say 'this man', and way to say 'that', so you can say 'that baby'. Right? You'd have to work Okay? Like this, with 16 different spots. Ten charts, 16 different spots at a minimum, conventional way. But I think using the 'All-in-One you in the past videos, this is the better way. This is the smarter way to And that's because the declensions, only, going to still follow the same process of, because that's this component up here. You have to know the case of your noun, right? So this is still the same. But now when you locate the correct do this using one chart, not ten or more. Right? So you still need to find the And then from here, you have to now take the onto the word yourself. So the thing is, at face value, the where all of the words are spelled out complete, and your 'a's are complete, and and the 'few's and the 'many's and the whatever. All of those charts are done for you. The problem is, imagine yourself now, You're talking in German, right? You want to say something like, 'this man second, hold on. And you start leafing through ten or more right way to say those different words. Not going to be a very nice experience, you. And so the problem with those But don't go the easy way because it's deceptive. It's deceptive because it's actually a crutch. It will keep you from becoming truly But if you can work with one chart and be which words when; when you know how to do fluency. Because with just one chart, with need to learn, this is actually memorizable right? You can actually internalize this chart and at it anymore. A lot harder to do if you're size. Okay. So,hoping that you are now convinced Declensions Chart', we need to talk about because, as has been established in the across the chart, the cases going So the 'All-in-One Declensions Chart' gives points. But when you find the intersection options listed. There are And so there's still a You still need to know which declension to is a matter of our declension pattern being used. So there are four total patterns So again, this is simple, short enough without a problem. And here are those four declension patterns. Okay. So pattern number one: this is the in this video because, The case system, declensions, how you use depth, which is exactly what I do And you can also know that down in the provided link that will open up in a new tab written on declensions on my website and you And there'll be lots of additional examples. But in this video, we're going to keep things about just the very first declension pattern. This very first declension It is the default pattern. This is the pattern that you are always requirements that force you to use pattern deviant from our standard Okay. So there are two things Firstly, you need to notice that the symbols the exact same symbols in the That's how these connect. Okay, So check that out. Right. We have those same big black flags flags all throughout the chart. And then these three instances where we have with the declension pattern. So that's the first point. Then looking at the declension patterns establish in order to use this properly And maybe some of you need to be So let's look at that. So determiners. These are words that answer the So words such as 'the', 'a', 'some', Those are determiners, right? So it's kind of, you have to imagine that either be pointing to some specific thing, apple', whatever, or you're 'Both apples', 'a few apples', 'many apples'. So you're either pointing to something Those are determiners. They're answering the question Great. All right. So then adjectives, declensions are words that Is the apple red? Is it mushy? Is it freshly picked? Those are adjectives. So determiners and adjectives are the two a slot and need to take declensions in order in the sentence in relation to Okay. So now, in light of all of this that we want to say 'This man gave the woman determiner, which means 'this'. The determiner that means 'the'. Okay. And then the determiner that means 'that'. Okay. But unlike those conventional charts have to find the right one, you know, after pages of charts. Okay. We now are going to take what we can then plug the declension on ourselves. Very empowering. All right. So how are we going to do that? Let's look at our process step by All right. So again, firstly, you have This is something you're going to have Right? Secondly, and more difficultly, you Okay. It's doing the slots in the sentence. Then, whatever chart you're using, either you the right space or just use the 'All-in-One intersection that you need where you're and the case of the noun. Then, with my method, you need to look at noun. Right? So we have 'this man' Those are the words that are coming Okay. And we have just talked about how Okay? So now with that information, we And there's more to this step, which again read more about it on my website. But for right now, we're just automatically number one and not even examining the So we're just going to jump right to that point. But you would have to learn how to identify then plug in the declensions. Okay, So now we're going to So just for good measure, because practice again, identify the gender of our nouns, we person, a feminine noun, referring to a a young person. Okay, then the subject of our sentence, 'this man'. Nominative case, which I color code pink. Then he's giving 'that baby'. Okay, so baby is going to And to whom is he giving the baby? He's giving it to 'the woman'. So she needs to go into the dative Okay, So now next step, we have to identify So starting again from the beginning. We have a masculine noun in the nominative right there. Then for our &quot;Frau' in the dative That's where the feminine column And then for our baby, we have a neuter noun So that puts us right here in the chart. These are the three intersections All right. Now we look again at our sentence. What elements are we using here? Do we have determiners? Do we have adjectives? What's happening in each of these slots? We've already said that the words We're answering the question 'This man', 'the woman', 'that baby', where these people. Okay, these are determiners. So our pattern, number one, our standard Put the strong declension onto the determiner. Okay, so what does this look Okay. The strong declension listed at the Okay. So that's going to need to go down here. All right. The strong declension listed in 'r', okay, so that's going to go over here declension in the neuter accusative is go over here. So if we write this in, then, to do. But it's not that hard. I think you can handle it. You have the declension, that's great, So in order to make this pronounceable, we the glue. Okay, so the 'e', the 'filler declension that it has to have. Same thing over here. We put in a filler 'e' and then the declension. Put in the filler 'e' and then the declension. And that gives us the result of 'Dieser Mann saying very specifically, 'This man gave the who and whom is being given and to whom The declensions are what tell us that. Because remember, like we were talking about slots around in German, right? Without changing the meaning. So that's why knowing how to work with All right. So one final thing. We're going to up the ante here and take you can practice that element as well. Okay, so now in our sentence, We've simply added in adjectives. So if I go through this a little faster this okay? Have to know that. We have to know what case We have to know what role they're playing. But again, all of this is It's not new. It's the same. And then dative case for our woman So we're at the exact same intersections That also has not changed. Okay. So I'm just going to circle We're still working with standard So we're still going to put the exact same determiners, right? This is also the same. So the 'r' comes down, put on the filler 'e'. Beautiful. Okay. And then we have an 'er' here and an 'es' here. Right? Just taking that from the chart. Strong declension, strong But now we also have these adjectives. They need declensions, too. Determiners and adjectives Our declension pattern number one specifies, and IF you have an adjective or if you have weak declension. Right? The weak declension is then listed second Declensions Chart'. So firstly, we Then we have an 'n', so that's going to need 'e'. So now we're saying still the same to whom. Right? We've just added in some adjectives to now say 'This old man gave the Mann gaber netten Frau jener heulende Baby.) topic. Again, reminder, click below in the to the pdf, downloadable materials of the declension patterns, a cheat This is free for you, and then you can also written on declensions and there would be read up on this for quite some time Okay. And then what else? If you haven't already subscribed, make sure when I come out with new information. All right. And then finally, now you just watch next. The next video in this series is are also rather confusing, but we're going system, to the 'All-in-One Declensions Chart'. That's going to make them easier to Okay, so that's the next video. Or if you haven't seen this series from the and start it from the beginning. Even watching these videos on the case patterns again, because there's Okay. So whichever route you choose, Hello, I'm Laura Bennett with German with Laura. And this is my eighth video in a ten part harder. If you haven't watched the previous You can catch up on them later. In this video, we're going to talk This is a real sticking point for This is going to get tough. I'm going to give you the shortest, best going to require some extra work on your part. So because of this, if you have not yet Grammar for German Learners' course, please Open that link up in a new tab. Register today for free. I go into this topic of personal pronouns You get so many more examples; You don't want to miss out on that course. Okay, so for now, what is it that you need Well, firstly, they're going to start off English personal pronouns, but And you really need to understand that divergence. So we're going to be talking about that, but haven't even yet defined, what To make that point, let's look Okay. In these sentences, 'My cousin's best cousin's best friend's mother took us on a like my cousin's best friend's mother.' We succession like this, right? This is long. This is cumbersome. Who wants to say 'my cousin's best Right? This is not how language works. What we would do instead is use a personal best friend's mother'. Pronouns, personal pronouns, are these replace names, nouns, or entire noun phrases. So if we had to replace 'my cousin's best the pronoun 'she'. 'She' owns an expensive yacht. And so, likewise here. 'She' took us on a week long This is pronouns at work. We use these all the time in English and in how to use them. So now this same phrase, used in this third sentence. It's right here. But would we replace this with 'she'? No, we wouldn't say. I really like 'she'. That sounds terrible. What would we say instead? 'Her'. I really like 'her'. Okay, so this is also a personal pronoun, it's in what's called a different 'case'. And if you haven't already watched my fifth might want to get caught up on that very soon. Okay. So we have, in English, two different objective case. The nominative case is what we are Those are nominative case pronouns. We're going to look at a table in just a second. And this 'her', also a pronoun, This is an objective case pronoun. I'm color coding these cases differently. Right? Pink for nominative and green for So we have two cases of pronouns in English, So we're going to continue looking at how we can directly compare and contrast it to Here we go. Okay, so this table is for additional terminology that we need to try about pronouns. And that is what is called person, and then singular and plural. Okay, So how this works is We start with ourselves. We start with I. So in our little imaginative scenario here, So, first person. Okay, I'm talking directly to you. So now you have entered the Okay, then you and I are And when we're talking about someone else, person. Right now we're in a Okay? And then from there, it's just a (I'm one person in the first Okay, that's the plural column. If I'm talking to you and there's just difference between the singular and plural. And then so likewise, if I and you are multiple third people, then It's they. This is how it works. And this is going to work Okay. So we would never, for example, We're not the Queen of England, so we We would replace our own names The nominative pronoun 'I' because I am the German'. Okay, then we have the same phrase Again, nominative case because it's the the pronoun 'I' and 'you' are talking about the third person. It's a female. We're just talking about one of them. So we would again replace her with 'she'. So in all of this, you subconsciously You use pronouns all the time. You don't have to analyze it. It just happens, right? That's how it works when you're a native speaker. Okay. But if we take the time and we bring pronouns to the forefront of your actually analyze what's happening here, understanding pronouns in German. So, let's look at this exact same sentence, pronouns. Okay, so German nominative terminology of first person, second All of that's the same, right? So figuring out which German nominative perfectly, cleanly, with English. Okay, so if you know that you need to say If you know you need to say 'she', It's the exact same spot in the table, languages. So you would say now 'Ich spreche der besten Freundin von meiner Very long phrase. We really want to replace that with a pronoun. Make it simple and sweet, right? Is now going to be replaced with 'sie' Okay, so then let me take a quick moment additional nuance topics when it comes to about, but we're not going So things such as the 'formal' versus instances of 'sie' happening, Okay. Some other topics with personal pronouns. When I have videos put out for them, I will click on them. But in the meantime you can have links to various articles on my website depth and get into these other side points, informal. So you can read up on that more later. Okay. So now, moving on. In English, as referenced earlier, The nominative, which we just looked at, and in English we essentially use just two You either have a subject noun which always an additional noun in your sentence that default, because that's the only other option. So in English, these two sentences, we have The subject of the sentence followed Okay, so now all remaining nouns in an nouns. Okay, so 'my next door When it occurs here again, We also have an additional This is how it works in English. This is simpler than than how it works So if we want to replace this noun phrase, pronoun here, we can no longer use We can't say 'I like HE' or 'I like SHE.' case a noun or a name or a noun phrase is that same case. So we can say 'I like HIM,' (I like my next going to make it a 'him' for now though, right? So this is still the third person. All of this terminology is still the same. First person, second person, That's staying the same in all of these tables. So I really like my next door neighbor. I'm telling you this directly. We're talking about him. And so that's the pronoun that we have to neighbor'. It would still be 'him' right here. And if we wanted to, we could We could replace it with a pronoun, too. When we know what we're talking When it's already clear from the context continue talking about those same things, So now, this is how it works in English. But again, new layer of difficulty that So these English objective pronouns: 'me', 'them'. This gets split into two different for the accusative case, and Okay. So the thing about this is, these 'ihn', 'sie', 'es', 'uns', 'euch', 'sie, these all mean 'me', 'you', 'him', 'her', 'it', 'us', 'you', 'them'. But, so do the dative pronouns. Okay, so you can say 'mir', 'dir', 'ihm', And these are also going to in English 'us', 'you', 'them'. Right. So again, this concept of the English options in German and you have to And this is all about the case system, even getting into seven. You can catch up on those videos But for now, stick with me here. We're going to look at some examples. Okay, so here we have our same two sentences 'I bake my next door neighbor a cake every can work on replacing these So how is this going to work? Let's do a slot analysis. So we have 'ich' is a nominative pronoun, It's the subject of the sentence. 'I' am the subject of the I like. I like someone or something. Who or what do I like? I like my next door neighbor. Accusative case. All right. And as a principle here that you sentence after you've identified your comes first, then if you have a second noun direct object noun and direct object So now if we want to replace 'my next door with a pronoun, we have to match up the cases. It's in the accusative case, 'meinen accusative pronoun. It's still first, second, third person. I am telling you, I like my next door neighbor. So that's third person. It's a male next door neighbor. And that's 'ihn'. Okay. The word 'ihn'. Great. So now we saw that in English, in neighbor a cake every week,' we would It doesn't change. But, in German, this is now different because playing in this second sentence is different. He's no longer the direct object. He's the indirect object. And that's going to change the pronoun. So in the second sentence, we still In a standard sentence we The subject noun 'ich' always 'Ich' is a nominative pronoun. What action am I taking? I'm baking. So the verb comes next. Now we ask this question. What am I baking? And the answer to that I am baking 'einen Kuchen'. The direct object always goes So if we were to replace 'Kuchen' with a Okay, so now my next door neighbor, He is the person to whom I am giving this cake. And that means that in this sentence he's An indirect objects go into So we're going to have to use a dative here. So dative pronouns--we are We still have first, second and third person and the accusative. And I'm talking to you week, right? So we're talking about 'him' it's just the one neighbor. So it's singular, not plural. And he's a male. So we need to use the 'him' here, not her. So here 'meinem Nachbarn' is So notice, this is a difference Over on the accusative side, it's 'ihn' This is difficult. This is going to require some practice personal pronouns in German. But this is now a perfect opportunity if description and opened up a new tab to Learners' course, do that now so you can many other essential grammar topics through to understand. And remember you can also click in the website on the topic of personal pronouns a chance to get into in this video. But before you leave, if you haven't yet button below so you know when I Now you have a choice before you. You can either continue to the next video Or if you haven't watched the series from start from the very first video. Either way, I'll see you next. Hello, I'm Laura Bennett with German with Laura. And this is my ninth video in a ten part harder. In this video, we're going How are sentences correctly structured in German? There are patterns that work And as you will discover, there are some do not have equivalents for in English. It's super important to understand these come across them all the time, and two, if in the sentence and you just interpret the misunderstand what is being said. And dependent upon the context, dependent catastrophic results. So in this video, which does stand alone, videos in this series, don't worry about it. You can catch up on those later. In this video, I'm going to introduce to German. And then the top way that we make English to then create a second, very As usual, we're going to start by looking at the stage for this topic. Here we go. In video five in this series, practice with the concepts of nominative, above my head and watch that video perhaps In that video, number five in this The woman sings. The woman sings a song. The woman sings her little baby a song. And if we do what I call a slot analysis of with. The subject of the sentence is 'the woman'. And the subject always has to This is the same in English and in German. Okay. Then after you have the subject nominative case, notice that it's There's going to be more on this After that, while we could just stop at sentence. We have a subject, we have a verb . Done. We can add additional And that brings us to option number two, is the woman singing? And the answer is, she is singing a song. And this 'what'-- a song, is the And direct objects have to In the third sentence here, we still have 'a So still in the accusative case. But now we've also added in the additional by the woman and that 'to whom' is 'her object in this sentence, and indirect So like we talked about in video five, that In each one of these, we have the subject by the verb, which we can say is And then if we add the accusative, that to be inserted in between, now, the So there are two rules that I want you to patterns. The first rule is that the each other. And you can see that here, right? In these instances, the nominative is So they are right next to each other. The second rule is that the verb always has And notice, this is so important, that the the sentence, because the nominative case, words in it. Right? The subject of the sentence might be the That would all be in the nominative case. All of those words comprise And then after that, in position Okay, these exact same patterns We have 'die Frau', who is the The woman. Nominative coming first. Then we have our verb right next to it. Right next to it, right next to it. And in all of these instances, the Or it is the second element in the sentence this instance is comprised of Then, just like in English, if we want to add we answer the question: what is being sung? And the answer is 'ein Lied'--a song. And that is playing the role of And direct objects always Great. And so then in the third We still have 'ein Lied', still the direct we've added that third element of to recipient of the song or Those are all ways to think And so 'ihrem kleinen Baby' It is the indirect object in this sentence. Okay, so now the question is what happens in sentence? What if we change the order and accusative, like in our standard sentence? Does that work in English? So the first sentence, right, We've been working with nominative, followed So the nominative and the verb Those are our two rules. And then we have the indirect object in the accusative. Great. Okay, so we're going to put a check mark by this. That's our original sentence. That's the meaning we still want to In sentence two, we say 'her little We still have all the same elements. They've just traded places. And this sentence still makes sense, I guess. But it doesn't mean the same So we're going to give that a question mark. Okay, then what about sentence three? 'A song sings the woman her baby.' Huh? This doesn't even make sense in English. This straight up doesn't work. The reason why we cannot shuffle these because the cases themselves are fixed in English. The first noun in a standard sentence in the sentence, always taking the And then if we have two additional nouns in the next one that will be the dative case, accusative case. So the cases themselves have And if you change the contents of the slot, in English. But in German, this is completely different. Okay, so here are the exact same But now in German, check it out. Our standard sentence, with the nominative sentence. What is she doing? She's singing. The verb is in second position. That's rule number two. The subject noun and the verb That's our rule number one. Then what is she singing? She's singing a song. So that goes into the accusative To whom is she singing? She's singing to her little baby. The indirect object goes into the dative case. Okay, so now look at it this way. If that's our first sentence, That's what we want. Now we have 'ihrem kleinen Baby' coming verb in position two. That's our second rule. And now on the other side of that verb, the rule number one of the verb and the And then after that, 'the song'. And then in the third sentence, now we're the verb in the second position and then subject noun and the verb are And then after that, the indirect The thing is, all three of these Okay. And how is that possible? That is possible because of the declensions each of these slots. So the declension here and the declensions they are all the same in all And that is why in German we can move We can change the word order In English, we saw how the cases It was always the pink, pink, pink for the orange for the dative case and yellow, But here the cases themselves moved, right? In sentence number one, the Here it's the first one. Here it's the third one. And the same thing with the pink and the yellow. They all changed position. But because of those declensions, we And this is so crucial in German. If you haven't already watched the video declensions, that's video six. You might want to watch that after this specific topic. Okay. So with those German examples fresh in around in the sentence, let's analyze Okay, so we still have these three basic and the verb in the second position and then optionally added after that, just We can take these three basic patterns and looks like this. This is the standard sentence structure in German. So this is standard word order in German the very first element in the sentence. It has to be next to the verb, right? And the verb also has to be the So this standard sentence structure, of those rules that we were looking at earlier. And now, coming after the verb, we have options. It could be an accusative case, whether prepositional phrase in the accusative case . It could be a dative case, whether it's prepositional phrase. It could be an adverb. It could be multiple adverbs. We can also have multiple But all of those elements all come next number three in the sentence. And this is important because, like we were the case is moved around to different slots, we can now create a new sentence pattern So what's happening here? Our verb is still in the second position. The nominative, however, moved from being sentence to now being here right after the verb. So it's still next to the verb, but And with all of these elements that are in one of them at a time and put it at the the beginning of the sentence. Why does German do this? German does this to emphasize that element. In English, when we emphasize We do it with our intonation to Not next week, not in a month. I'm going there tomorrow. Right. But in German you would put the then keep your voice pretty much the Or I'm flying with MY WHOLE FAMILY to Germany. Right? We use our voice in English to say that. But in German, again, they would take beginning of the sentence and then keep emphasize it like that. And in English, we can't do that. We can't say. 'With my family, I am flying sound very pretentious or So let's look at how this 'Transposed again, we do not have an So speaking of flying to Germany, If we do a slot analysis of this, 'I', nominative pronoun, subject of the first in the sentence. It is followed by the verb. So they're right next to each other. That's rule number one and the verb is in After that, all the rest of this information three or all the third elements in the sentence. We can further analyze these elements And then we have two dative cases Okay? When I have a video put out on above my head for it. So again, translated in English. 'I am flying to Germany with my family of those aspects, we would use our voice. I'm flying to GERMANY with my family tomorrow. I'm flying to Germany WITH MY FAMILY tomorrow. I'm flying to Germany with my family TOMORROW. Right? We use our voice to But in German, we're going to see how, emphasize. So one more time, Nominative, verb, and then in position two dative case slots. All right, great. So now the first change order, by the way. But we can take this we can emphasize that by transposing So now 'morgan' is the first element in And then on the other side of the verb, the the verb. And then after that, we take the three and still include them in the same We just moved 'morgan' but everything else in the same order that it was. All right. So now we can transpose We can take 'nach Deutschland'. We can put THAT now at the front of the sentence. That's what we're emphasizing. We still have the verb coming It's still followed by the subject, And now we have the remaining contents We have our adverb and then we have the Then finally, we can transpose 'mit meiner keeping the verb in the second position and case so that the subject noun and the We're still following both of our rules. And then we have the remaining elements from still there. So the thing to note about this is that position of the sentence, we have one, two, on the sentence that you can create in German. You have three different ways that you position in the sentence to Right? One, two, three. If we had ten elements in position three, we one at a time we're transposing them to the them. Okay, so I know this is a really, because Germans use transposed So you really need to know So if you want some additional practice, Open up the link in a new tab to my free where you can get lots of additional where's the subject noun? Where's the direct object? Where's the indirect object? Is this an adverb? What's happening? Okay, do that. And then also below in the description you website where I've written What are the sentence structures used in German? I've written on this at length, getting into here in this video and then in this series, videos, if you haven't already, to learn and the concept of declensions. And now at this point, you need to choose. Do you want to continue the series watching tips, or would you like to take this beginning? Either way, I will Hello, I'm Laura Bennett with German with Laura and this is my final video in a ten part harder. In this video, I want to share with help you become fluent in German. But before we talk about the do's and mean to 'be fluent' in a foreign language? Well, let's start with what it doesn't mean. For one thing, it does not mean that Language is like an iceberg. The bulk of it is underneath Those are the words that we understand, And then above the water, the tip of the use. So now with that in mind, think about this. In order to be fluent in German, you have to that of a native German speaker. So your iceberg is only going to be a third you're still going to be fluent. That's awesome news. We're going to talk more The second point, though, on what fluency English to German translations. In fact, translating is one of our don'ts later on in this video. Finally, being fluent in a foreign language going to be equally comfortable in all situations. Think about it this way. You're still going to be the same person speaking English. So whatever situations or in English, you're not going to feel German either. More on that in just a second. So this is what fluency is not. Now let's talk about what fluency is. Well, for one thing, we could perhaps can be more specific about what When you're fluent in German as a foreign core base vocabulary that you And since you feel really comfortable with and flexible, working with what you've got have forever. I'm fluent in German, and yet my vocabulary speaker's. But because I have a basic with, I can navigate through any situation convey the meaning that I want to have, even maybe the precise word I would choose in English. Or if I have to use a few extra words to don't know that exact vocabulary For example, imagine that I don't know the talk about the plumbing in my house. And so I say, 'Yeah, you know, those long, that water flows through.' And then the Yes, Pipes. That's what I'm talking about. Now, I've actually just learned a new word able to hang on to. But even in lieu of knowing the word for fluidly, comfortably describe And that totally works. If you pay attention to how you speak in the same thing even in your native language. We don't know all the words that exist in where you could argue that there's the mind, that would be what would But you frequently will just use the other and still paint the picture that you want to as it could be. Another example that I use to bring this right? Magnanimous is a beautiful word, and certain contexts it could be THE word that German. But for some reason Or maybe in German you just But that's okay because you know other words giving and thoughtful and kind and whatever, who is magnanimous. Okay. So then finally, what fluency is, is hone because of their relevancy to you. So for example, in English, I can't listen the lyrics for whatever reason. I just have a hard time with that. I'll say, 'What are they talking about?' expectation that I'll be able to listen to understand 100% of them. If you can't do something in English, you're German. But the thing is, if you stay what is important to you and what you like, Like, for another example in English, I understand news reports in English, but I In German, just like in English, there tends used in news reports. And I don't know all of that vocabulary, but to be watching news reports in German anyway. So that's not vocabulary that I'm going relevant to my life. So you have to really, really think about German. They have to line up with who you what's important to you, et cetera. So once you have all that figured out, the need to go through the process of What does this look like? So you already have a framework We need to build a second, separate brains inside your head that you can just like turning a light on and off. And to do this, you have to properly memorize things, say with flashcards, it has You need to learn things correctly so that You need to have better retention, better recall. You need to do everything about learning ways possible. Right? Learn German the doesn't feel impossible in the process. So all of the do's and don'ts that I'm increasing your confidence and your comfort way possible so that you can build this tapped into whenever you need to use So there are three big don'ts that get in you from ever attaining proficiency, The first one is speaking too soon. This is basically what's preached by speaking right away, right away, in And I, too, recommend that you start different process, very different and we're going to talk about that in a moment. The second big don't is We want to bypass English as much as directly to German. More on this in just a second. Finally, the third big don't So in previous videos in this series we smart way, how to learn declensions, the That's all about patterns, principles, That's what our brains like. Our brains can hang on to that There's deeper meaning behind it. It's not just isolated. It's all fit together like pieces to a puzzle. That's what our brains like. And you have to learn this way if you German. So there's one big meta solution to context. When you contextualize information, making together like puzzle pieces, that means that principles and rules. That means that you're working with More on that in a second. And then finally, this concept I already your own utterances too soon. So we're going to break down each of these So when you learn grammar in context, this Instead of following the conventional wisdom front of every noun because there are instead work with noun endings and noun those, you know that 'heit' is those are masculine and 'ment' and And groups, right, that you have alcoholic forth. When you learn like that, when you to why a noun is masculine or feminine or neuter. Because there's a reason, right? There's a reason. It's either because it ending almost all the time. There will be a reason for it. It's not random. And when you show your brain the logic, the We like that. Okay, so that's the smarter way to learn. It's efficient, it's effective. The same thing applies to declensions. Forget about the ten plus charts that the don't show you how all of the dots connect, right? It keeps it all isolated and mysterious. And you have to rely on those charts. You're so dependent on them because If, instead, you use the 'All-in-One patterns graphic, you understand what's happening. You can connect the dots. You're empowered to manipulate declensions use the correct ones. And the same thing with word order, right? So just patterns, patterns, That's going to work for you. That's the smarter way to learn. That is contextualized So now this concept of living vocabulary: reasons. One-- flashcards are usually You have the German on one side of We don't want to do that. We want to bypass English whenever possible. Think about it like this. It's like a triangle. The goal is to learn German. Okay. Whatever that German word is that options, two pathways for getting there. You can either connect directly from the Or you can do it the long, hard way by going you're translating into German. And we don't want to do it this way. So the thing about it is, without realizing images and in feelings in English, right? So words come out of our mouth, but we We think in pictures, we think in sensations. And then we have words that are directly feelings or sensations. You want to do that same thing in German. And it's totally possible. You just have to be intentional about it. And some of the ways that you can go about concept to German is like this when Okay, so say furniture around the house-- furniture, crawl underneath the furniture, you're drilling that vocabulary. That makes it become so much more alive, flashcards. Right? And then even better yet, if instead of just 'die Couch', 'die Couch', 'die Couch', contextualize even more and say 'die Couch ist klein', right? And use an adjective to That's really, really contextualized. That's super awesome. That's putting in a whole setup Because you're never (well, I shouldn't say a noun like that in pure isolation. It's not like you're a five year old who's everything that you know how to say and in No, you need to say something more than that. You need to say, 'Man, this floor is hard,' ceiling is so tall,' or 'the window is something else. So if you practice in that your body, right, by touching the pillow sitting on the couch while you're talking whatever, that's going to It's contextualized. Finally, then, making something visual touching or manipulating the And this can include verbs and stuff, to act with yourself. That's powerful usage When you can't do that, you need Okay? You need to think in images. So say you can't learn 'table' by going You conjure up the image of a table in your head. And while you're holding on to that image, target German for that, which is 'der Tisch'. So now on top of that, we can layer on that help it stick in our brains, all the learn once. And that is, I color code red for masculine nouns, So you can conjure up an image of a red table. Right? It's red. It's not blue. It's not green. It's not some sort of other color. It's red. And that helps your brain Okay? You can take this one step further You associate Superman with all masculine nouns. So now I'm seeing Superman totally clothed and then he's breaking off the legs of stomping on the table, Make it this weird little video in your And that's going to help you remember not 'Tisch', while you're seeing this happen in gender. So this is powerful, living flashcards. Then finally, this Like I was starting to say before, students right away. But there are so One, you don't understand grammar principles. Yes, you're going to make Two, you just started learning, so you don't which makes it rather hard to talk about anything. Then, thirdly, the sounds of German are mispronounce things. The inflection won't be very good, your will be halting. You're just going to be stumbling over your comfortable. You're not going to feel only solidifying, potentially, all of these using incorrectly, but you're also going to at this. I'm not good at speaking German. I'm never going to learn this. I feel so uncomfortable. I don't have self confidence.' Et cetera. This sets you up for failure, So instead, what you need to do is work with speaking right away, which is important, So what this looks like is, one, you start you, right? It's scripted. This is German songs, German You ingest all the authentic German that you it. You have to work with it, print off sing along with it. Right? Read a book in German if you like time, listening to it and And what this does when you work with right? Your body gets used to making these right? It feeds confidence. And you're going to be matching your you're hearing from a fluent German speaker. And then you're also going to be always because, again, it's been created You don't have to come up And then, after a while of doing this, you built up some vocabulary, you're feeling You get to the point, of course, of But if you wait and reach that step a little the scripted speech, this is so powerful. This is how you can build an authentic accent. Your pronunciation can be great, And you won't be solidifying all of these what have you. This is the smart So there you have it. Those are my top study tips for how you can you avoid the three big don'ts Don't translate. And don't do random. And instead, you build a German And you're not translating, but instead You're using scripted speech. You're working with patterns and principles place. You contextualize the learning. Make it real. Make it tangible. Make it a puzzle. Find the rhyme and reason, the logic behind brain will hang on to that gladly. Okay, so if you are ready to take your the path to success, on the path to fluency, analyze English. You need to feel comfortable with what you This is the smart way. So if you have not already, click in the tab. Register for my free course If you have not done this already and you then hang in there. I'm going to give you a bonus 11th video in detail, what that course contains, what learn it, why it matters because that is the smarter, not harder. Hello, I'm Laura Bennett with German with Laura. And in this video I want to talk with you learner of German by starting with what You see, so many students stop learning German. They hit a wall when they start noticing all certain words and they have They try looking into it and they're pronouns and nominative case and accusative case. All of this vocabulary gets so overwhelming point. But the secret to understanding as possible is starting with English first. So I created a free course just to solve Learners'. You can click on that Sign up for this free course today. So is this course really for you? Well, if it's been a long time since you've currently dissect and label the different ready definition of pronoun and preposition exactly for you. In 'English Grammar for German All of these different parts of speech pronouns, I go into in depth, all for the already know, right? So just helping you tricky part. But then on top of it, and this Learners', I take grammar concepts that are first in the context of English. So they're not relevant to English They'll involve things such as determiners Because again, if you can understand how transfer that understanding to German So I want to show you very briefly just a Learners' is really like. And we're going to analyze just a few teenager explores a deep, dark cave. Okay, so the very first thing that Where are the nouns in this sentence? We have two of them. Teenager and cave. How do we know that? Well, that's So a noun is a person, place, thing or idea. So 'teenager' is a person. And 'cave' is a place. So those are our two nouns in this sentence. All right, great. So now, next thing. We need to identify what are called determiners. So again, this is a totally new concept. We have determiners in English, but we're because they're just not that Okay, so determiners are little words such 'some' 'all', 'both', 'a few', et cetera. Et cetera. Determiners answer the Okay, so in this sentence, we have the we're talking about and 'a' telling us which It's just 'a' cave, not a hundred caves. All right, so these are determiners. And this is important to understand, because types of words that are going to habitually declensions. So you have to know what those changes yourself and/or So now, the next step is to find the also take declensions in German. So this is why it's so Okay, so adjectives describe a They add additional richness So here, we're not just We're talking about 'the DAREDEVIL teenager' . That's adding information about the teenager . That makes it an adjective. The cave, right? It's not just 'a cave'. It's 'a DEEP and a DARK cave'. So those are adjectives. Great. Next step. Now we need to do something What on earth are slots? So again, I'm sure you never learned this in need to. But it's going to be absolutely So every noun in a sentence has to go into a it the determiner and any So 'the daredevil teenager', this is a chunk Okay, so it's going to look like this. Great. So then 'cave' brings along with it 'deep' and 'dark', and they All right, next step. We need to talk about what role are the each other? What are their 'The teenager' is what is called the subject sentence. The teenager is Okay, so 'S' for subject. All right. And then in English, all We have just the one slot for And then after the verb right here, all So this gets a little more complicated in English is very essential. So now that we know this, we're going to And that is that we have to 'label the cases'. Okay. So again, this is a concept that's not world of difference in German. So the subject noun is always going to go And I color code this with pink. So the nominative case is It's not just the noun, it's all of the 'the' and 'daredevil'. Because again, it is 'the' and 'daredevil' the declensions. And those changes are going to be So our subject noun 'teenager' is in the reflected in the precise changes that are in front of it. So now 'cave' as an object noun is going objective case. But again, you've possibly very important in English, Okay, so same thing, now the determiner 'a' going to take declensions that would reflect the sentence; that it is an object noun. Okay, so if any of this felt overwhelming, That's why there's an entire course Click below in the description. Start 'English Grammar for German