This week I saw this new video by Johnny The video looks amazing. It has map roll porn and it's also wrong. He simplifies events, screws up As a historian, it's painful to watch. Since leaving Vox, Johnny Just putting his name What? But with these views also came criticism. He's been accused of putting out and today of simplifying history So what's this video actually about? Johnny Harris discusses a subject for countless of books How did some countries from a relatively just rise up and dominate everyone else? It's a big question. A 500 year project of moving people and weapons and germs And the outcome still influences So it's extra important to get the facts Don't get me wrong. I love Johnny Harris. He has inspired millions, including me. He's pretty much the reason map and he promotes therapy. I'm a giant fan of therapy. I like that. But he pushes storytelling far Let me explain. Johnny sets the stage for his video. Europe was. But the fact is, there wasn't an abundance Instead, Europeans were just farmers, by constantly in debt Life in Europe was scarce and miserable. That really pissed off He then goes on to talk about empires were doing just fine in this time. there was a bunch of other empires All of these empires were trading with one They all had better everything than Europe Eventually wanted in on all the trade. So what goes wrong here? Well, let's start with the whole wretched Jonny voices this general idea Everything was shit That sounds bad, right? Well, technological innovations With all this innovation, there was a lot more food Between the year thousand and 1340, from about 38 million people And then the Black Death But this Black Death actually made things It meant the end of serfdom That landlord thingy Why? Well, labor was really scarce had a much better bargaining position Of course, this didn't happen everywhere but even so, generally seen, the situation definitely wasn't worse than those So then Johnny says there were no shiny There wasn't an abundance But trade with the empires he mentions Since Roman times, network of roads, shipping lanes and towns Just sometimes This is what happens when the Ottomans They come in and introduce higher taxes. So Portugal and Spain, they didn't They wanted to cut out So the exploration of Spain and Portugal Also, when he describes one of the most pivotal moments This is a period after the Crusades where knowledge from Scholars in the Italian states This led to flourishing culture I mean, the map that Johnny shows Yeah, Okay, so Europe wasn't this awful place. There were shiny things, And yes, So Johnny then goes on to explain why Spain wanted in on all the trade Portugal's work around was literally and suddenly the Portuguese Okay, so now Spain sees Portugal and they're kind of jelly They need to establish their own Okay, so the Portuguese, Spain wanted in on the trade. Let's look at a timeline here. So Columbus leaves in 1492. What is the first time the Portuguese Right. So, no, the Portuguese were not successful in reaching India by sea Well, were on to Columbus. This is what Jonny Harris says. They listen to a pitch and this sailor wants them What If We Sailed West Super promising name, remember? Okay, I actually kind of like that joke. And he is right. The world did look like this. There were maps around from people Take this map from Toscanelli. It shows Japan within reach. Columbus used this and other calculations miles away, Columbus And even though these maps existed, people didn't think you could reach Asia It was just too far away. And they were totally right. So Spain was like, Yes, great idea. High risk, high return. Do it. Columbus. Columbus put his findings before Spanish experts of the court twice, Only the intervention of the Spanish king made it possible for Columbus Probably because he felt low risk, I mean, this Columbus dude is so sure He has a lot of confidence. Okay, now we move on to one of the most And for that, I'm going It's a moment This big epiphany. And this is where the biggest light bulb moment of the century goes off Change of plans, boys, says Columbus. We're going to claim this land Columbus they could actually just And this changed everything. After all, This moment is the foundation upon So, Johnny, he admits in the comments I don't know why, because the truth is actually way more As many people have said in the comments: actually said he should claim land and that he would become But even if we got Johnny some slack Let me tell you why. Okay. So before Columbus went sailing, there were basically two kinds The first was the Portuguese way. You could plug into existing trade routes occupying This is what the Portuguese were doing Take the fort of Elmina that they built. They did this because there was every one died in the interior of Africa. Seriously. Still in the 1800s, up to half of It's a fun field trip. The second kind of colonialism is not that Since the early 1400, Spain had a colonial This has been called Europe's Over the course of a century due wars and enslavement dropped from estimates of 50 to 80000 The Spaniards faced a lot of resistance, they made the islands into a plantation Does that sound familiar? This is a thing historians have called a template So this kind of colonialism when Columbus went to the Indies, if the people were subjugating to Columbus So what did Columbus realize Well, was to plug into existing trade networks, Remember, his pitch had been the spices, And what did he find of all these things? Nothing. So Columbus actually got nervous. He had to tell his bosses How was he going to make this from the initial idea of Portuguese He switches to the Spanish style that they had developed on or import other people So this is the big epiphany, but it's not something It followed from a followed from experience of Iberian powers that were already colonizing Imperial ism wasn't developed there and it was also not developed That's because history is almost and their ideas. The truth is always more nuanced, and Columbus Forget trade with the East, said Columbus. There's a bunch of land that we can go Because he died believing So in his mind, he was in the east. Okay, so after this, Jonny says that Spain This is how it all started. Under this new paradigm. Both empires expanded very quickly, languages across the ocean. And I do want to highlight something here. Jonny doesn't really delve into this, I want to tell you something about how One important reason that the Spaniards were able to conquer It's that they befriended local factions at the most powerful factions around. The Spanish were really trying If you explain this story in a way that the Spaniards it makes them seem like these powerful European warriors It directly feeds into later ideas of the racial superiority And if you do this, you also make these people But these people had allegiances, They chose to support the Spanish, really work out for them. In the end, but they chose so themselves. Okay, so my rant is almost over. I am going to tell you why But first, I want to compliment Johnny I saw quite a lot of people as a kind of a social justice warrior and subjugation of people This is true. But I still think we have to talk more colonialism First, the scope and then the ideology. European powers dominated They raped, pillage If China had taken over the world, But they just didn't. with the conquests was spread around People are moral persons. And to kill or enslave another human So from the start of the colonial project, scholars made a very big effort Europeans, they knew murder was bad. They knew you had to have a just war. They knew slavery was bad. But when it's a whole different Not human at all. Not so civilized. Well, then maybe you can enslave them. So people have now complained that we're giving too much attention Well, I think after centuries of washing time to own up to this and actually So for this, Why does he make this fictionalized, simplified account of history I think Johnny generally wants people you, yes you, the audience, you like to watch things So he finds a way to make it But I think he goes too far It's a bit ironic the news The news is too flashy, and it makes you feel informed Cutting the context The education niche of YouTube. It's not like a peer review paper. It's also not as fictional as Hollywood I think on YouTube, viewers have an and many don't have the background tools And so posing a simplified narrative is are going to get from a certain subject. So why should he care? Is this all nitpicking and jealousy Well, let me tell you a story about It's the origin story of the myth thought the world was flat in medieval That's actually a total legend, I was taught that in elementary I actually genuinely care. Like, how did that happen? This myth is mostly the blame He wrote a fictional account of Columbus's Irving He puts down Columbus as a great visionary man that has to fight against Catholic The book is ridiculously popular. 175 editions were printed in the 1800s. But Irving presented this story method And this epic struggle it soon morphs into a belief Eventually, his historical fiction becomes an historic fact If some of these folks were around they must have been founding members They would not have believed Let's be clear. Johnny is not as bad as Irving. But a story like that makes sure This idea that Irving put forward soon became the idea And when history is used to present myths the modern world, we should be very wary. Okay, one last thing before we go. Johnny, if you ever see this, please, It gives more accountability. It's going to be a starting point to read more about certain subjects. It can help academics that can eventually be an inspiration Okay, Randolph. I made this video They are in description. YouTubers Imperial and Faultline All mistakes are, of course, still mine. Don't forget to check out their channel. I definitely didn't touch on everything so let me know in the comments and be sure to check out my content which See ya.