Welcome back to the Make or Break Society. In this one, I'll be teaching you how to get RetroPie up and running on the Raspberry Pi 5. At the time of recording this, there's no official RetroPie image for the Pi 5, so we'll be doing a manual install. Now, let's get into it. OK, so to install RetroPie you're going to need one or two things: an SD card adapter or a USB micro SD card reader and a keyboard for planning entering commands directly onto the Pi. I'll be using SSH which means I won't need the keyboard. Now let's move on to our first step. OK, so the first step is to fire up the Raspberry Pi imager. If you don't have the Raspberry Pi imager, you can get it by going to raspberrypi.com/s oftware Scroll down about halfway down, about 1/3 of the way down the page and download. You can download for Windows, Mac, or Ubuntu, or if you're using Raspberry Pi to install this on Raspberry Pi. You can download it there too. This would be an interesting method to do it, but it is doable. Once you've got it downloaded and installed, you'll be great with this screen. So we're going to choose Device Raspberry Pi 5 and we're going to choose our operating system. So we're going to choose Raspberry Pi OS Other and we want Raspberry Pi OS Lite 64 bit. I'm going to choose storage. I'm going to plug in my micro SD card and then choose storage. I'm going to pick that micro SD card and click next. Would you like to apply OS customizations?I'm going to go edit settings. So to keep this as much like an official RetroPie build as possible, I'm setting the host name to RetroPie. Setting username and password to pi and raspberry. And here you can also set up your Wi-Fi SSID and password. I'm going to set my locale settings, so American Regina and then keep our layout of US. If you don't set these, Wi-Fi won't automatically connect and go to services, enable SSH. Use password authentication. That just means that it's going to require that Pi username and the password of Raspberry and options eject media when finished and click save and then we're going to answer this as yes and let it flash. All existing data will be erased. Are you sure you want to continue?Yes. Depending on the speed of your card, this will be pretty quick, but if you've got a slower card, this can take 5, even 10 minutes. This card is a really fast card, which is why it's writing so fast. Now we're on to verifying. If you don't want to let it verify, if you click cancel verify, the flashing will still succeed. It just means that it's not going to verify the integrity of the drive. I'm going to let it finish because it's fairly quick. Raspberry Pi OS Lite 64 bit has been written. You can now remove the SD card from the reader. So it's already ejected it, so now you can remove it. So we're going to remove it, put it into the Pi, power it up, and I'll show you the boot up sequence for it. OK, for step two, we're going to put the SD card into our Pi, plug in a display if you need one. Actually don't need one for this step, but it makes getting the IP address a little easier and power it on. So it's going to do a quick boot and it's going to make your SSH keys and then it's going to restart. And it's generating our keys. Now once it fully reboots, we're going to let it boot all the way up, and then after it's done that, we're going to need to grab the IP address. If you're not doing it with the screen attached, you'll have to either go into your router settings or use something like Advanced IP Scanner to find your IP. OK, now that we're done booting, we'll look up a few lines here. So it's 123456789 lines up or you know from that first. OK, you'll see your IP address here. So in my case it's 11.11.11.215. So make sure you make note of that. We're going to need that in our next step. And Speaking of our next step, let's O back over to the computer. Alright, so on to step three. Now we're going to open up PuTTY. We're going to type in the IP address that we grabbed from step two, or that you grabbed using either your router or advanced IP scanner or some other network scanner so you can find your IP address. We're going to enter the one that we found, and it's 11.11.11.215. Port 22 is fine. I'm going to click open. You're going to get a popup like this. You may get a popup like this. This is because I've done a lot of work on Raspberry Pis. This IP address has been used before, so it doesn't recognize the key. If you get this, just click accept. We're going to go login as hi. Password is the one we set in the imager, which is raspberry. You'll notice that it didn't type anything there. It still types, it just doesn't show you that anything's being typed. Get this a little bit bigger for us. Alright, so now there's a couple of commands we need to run on here. I will link them in the description, but we're getting them. We're getting them from here. So retropie.org.uk/docs/manual-installation So the first command we're going to run here is sudo apt update &amp;&amp; sudo apt upgrade. I'm going to click copy there. Right click and it just pastes in. Then we click yes. This is going to take a while. Apparently it's not going to take a while. I must have grabbed a newer version from the imager. That's good. Now let's head back over here. So we've already set our locale stuff. So we did that in the imager. So we can skip past that. So we're going to install Retropy. Copy this first command. Paste. Yes. So what that did was copy the install files. What that did was copy the LSB release. Next one we're going to download the setup script. Let's copy the setup script over and we're going to execute the script. If I'm not mistaken, this does take a while. Actually the last time that I remember. So basically this is just a warning saying that you know it's not really designed to be installed this way and you know everything's on you essentially click OK. Warning 64 bit support on Raspberry Pi is not yet officially supported, although the main emulator package selection should work. The new image isn't ready. Once it is ready, I'll make another video on the easy way to do this. OK, so let's go back to our instructions. So we want to manage packages and then. Basic install, quick install. Basic install, this install, click yes. Apparently there's no quick install question. Now I know this does take a while, so I'll speed this up and see you when it's done. OK, so that took a little over an hour, which is why I didn't end up fast forwarding through it. I just cut it. Let's make this a little bit bigger. That's pretty much it. If you just want the most basic installation and you're good to go from there, that's it. If you want, you can go into like manage packages for example, or these are all the packages that are already on. Main you can see that these packages are also already on and then all your optional and whatnot packages. So if there's any other packages you want like you know the Beetle PSX or PSP is in here as well. PPSSPP you want any of them, you can install them now otherwise. Click don't reboot. First click configuration tools, then auto start. And start emulation station at boot. Emulation is set to launch at boot. Cool. Then we can back out. Go back. Now we can perform reboot and it'll start an emulation station. And now we'll O over to my capture and I'll show you how she boots U. And finally, step four. This will look familiar to anybody who's used RetroPie before. This is identical to how a RetroPie image will boot up after fresh install. So from here we plug in my my PlayStation 4 controller and then we set all the controls up. There we are, all set up with Retro Pie. In my preliminary testing, everything functions exactly the same on the Pi 4 and the Pi 5, even though you get warnings that it's not designed for the Pi 5 yet and that it's not supported yet. I have noticed that some games like God of War here seem to run a little bit better or a little bit higher frame rate on the Pi 5. God of War seems to run at full speed, where it was just a little slow on the Pi 4. Well then, thanks for watching. Don't forget to like and subscribe if you haven't done so already. And until next time, remember, it doesn't matter if you make a break, as long as you're having fun.