Thanks to CuriosityStream for sponsoring this Engineering materials are normally split into and composites. Understanding the different types of materials, is a crucial part of engineering. In this video we'll explore metals, their alloying and heat treatment that can be used Around two thirds of the elements in the periodic purposes we're particularly interested in Iron is probably the most important of them a high strength material with a wide range Aluminum is commonly used because its alloys It has a relatively low melting temperature, casting, and it's relatively inexpensive. Like Aluminum, Titanium has excellent strength-to-weight making it a popular choice for aerospace applications. Its high melting point makes it suitable for processing more difficult. It's also much more expensive than Aluminum. Other important metals include Magnesium, The key to using these metals effectively at the atomic level. The atoms of a pure metal are packed together grid. Because of this regular structure, metal is grid the atoms are arranged in is called the Not all materials have a regular structure In glass for example the atoms are arranged not a crystalline one. We can think of the crystal lattice as a repeating unit cell. There are several different ways the atoms that there are several different types of At room temperature, copper atoms for example an atom at the corner of each unit cell and We can see this better if we shrink the size them. This is called the face-centred cubic structure, But iron atoms prefer to pack together in of each face are replaced by a single atom This is the body-centred cubic structure, And titanium atoms prefer to pack together structure. These are the three most common crystal structures Both the FCC and the HCP structures have a occupy 74% of the total volume of the unit The BCC structure is slightly less closely The close packing of the atoms is one of the than most other materials. In reality lattices aren't perfect like the of which there are several different types. A vacancy defect occurs when an atom is missing An interstitial defect occurs when an atom in the lattice. This is a self-interstitial defect, since lattice, but interstitial defects can also element. And then we have substitutional defects, where replaced by impurity atoms. These are all point defects, because they Lattices also contain linear defects, called offset from their usual position in the lattice. The first type of dislocation is an edge dislocation, of atoms. Let's shrink the atom size so that we can This is a stable configuration, but when a bonds break and re-form, allowing the extra Another type of dislocation is the screw dislocation, out of alignment with the perfect lattice It gets its name because if you follow a path down through the lattice like the thread of Again when a shear stress is applied the atoms Most real dislocations will actually be a Because dislocations move through the lattice the process is irreversible - a dislocation when the applied shear stress is removed. This is the underlying mechanism behind plastic the motion of a large number of dislocations Elastic deformation is caused by the stretching Unlike the motion of dislocations, this stretching This graph shows how a material's yield Materials that contain a large number of dislocations can get tangled, preventing each other from The motion of dislocations through the lattice It's easiest for dislocations to move along other, since it's easier for those bonds This corresponds to different planes depending In reality even pure metals don't maintain distances. Let's zoom in to some molten metal and see As the metal cools down, atoms group together several different locations at the same time. Each of these lattices has its own orientation, to grow until it has completely solidified. We end up not with one continuous lattice, in different directions. This creates what we call grains within the of a collection of these grains are said to The grains are separated by grain boundaries. Since each grain has specific planes along presence of grains impedes the motion of dislocations, stronger than materials made up of a single The smaller the grain size, the stronger the This is captured in the Hall-Petch equation. We can use this information to intentionally of the grains that form as the metal is cooled. Impurities called inoculants can intentionally nucleation occurs at more sites than it otherwise Another way we can do this is by controlling If a metal is cooled very rapidly, nucleation don't have much time to grow, so the metal and will be stronger as a result. Controlling grain size to strengthen a metal This is just one of many strengthening techniques. We can also strengthen a metal by plastically or forging. This increases the number of dislocations, at the cost of reducing its ductility. This is called work hardening. One very useful quality of metals is that other metallic and non-metallic elements to some way. Metals that are created by combining different We typically split metals and their alloys on whether or not the base metal of the alloy Brass for example is a non-ferrous alloy of It typically contains 65% copper and 35% zinc, added. It is used for its attractive appearance and Aluminum alloys are important in engineering they provide at a light weight and reasonable Common alloying elements are Copper, Manganese, Aluminum alloys are classified according to casting, or to be worked, and are designated But steel is probably the most important engineering Pure iron is too soft for it to be used for with small amounts of carbon and in some cases incredibly useful properties. Steels are separated into a few different and other alloying elements. Low-carbon or "mild" steel contains up It doesn't have particularly high strength, Medium-carbon steel contains between 0.25 between 0.6% and 2% carbon. Since these steels contain a larger amount easily strengthened using different heat treatment Between 2% and 4% carbon we obtain cast iron. It has good fluidity and the additional carbon it good for casting, although it tends to We can add additional elements to the iron-carbon Stainless steel for example incorporates chromium common being type 304 stainless steel, that Alloys are created by melting the base metal They can either be substitutional or interstitial, Steel is an interstitial alloy, because the the atomic radius of iron. The presence of alloying elements distorts the motion of dislocations, and so has a strengthening This is called solid solution strengthening. But the alloying elements aren't always lattice. If an alloying element is added beyond a certain produce a distinct homogeneous phase within composition. There are several different ways the particles into the material and, unsurprisingly, they the material. Like grain boundaries, the boundaries between and increase a material's strength. Using heat treatment to intentionally produce the goal of strengthening a material is called Pure iron goes through several phase transformations Below 912 degrees celsius it's in BCC form, Above 912 degrees it changes from BCC to FCC, It then changes back to BCC at 1394 degrees, so above that it's a liquid. The different solid phases are called allotropes is assigned to each one. We can extend this diagram to show how the presence of different amounts of carbon. This is what is called the phase diagram for Because of the nature of the BCC structure, of interstitial carbon. When the solubility of ferrite is exceeded, and so a new phase called cementite forms Cementite is a hard, brittle compound made atoms, which corresponds to 6.7% carbon by A two-phase ferrite-cementite material looks The exact way in which the two phases combine the amount of carbon and other factors like Because of its FCC structure, austenite can carbon than the BCC structure of ferrite. But in the same way, if more carbon is added and cementite phases. There are several other possible phase combinations of carbon present. The presence of a cementite phase can have is part of the reason steel is much stronger If you'd like to learn more, you can check on Nebula, where I've covered phase diagrams the tie-line method and the lever rule, can proportion of each of the different phases, martensite that don't appear on the phase If you're a regular viewer you'll know been building with a group of educational Engineering, Mustard and many others. Nebula's packed full of thoughtful, entertaining so it's only natural that we've teamed the internet to watch high-quality big-budget to choose from. So after you've watched my extended videos on CuriosityStream - a fascinating 10 episode is built on breakthroughs made centuries ago to irrigation and flooding problems to the and temples. Best of all, if you sign up to CuriosityStream annual plan, and you'll get full access CuriosityStream. It's the best deal in streaming, and signing So head over to curiositystream.com/efficientengineer And that's it for this look at metals and Thanks for watching!