The Quest 2 is far and away the most and if you're watching this, you probably and you're wondering whether Meta's newest First things first, both the Quest 2 and Quest 3 virtual and mixed reality experiences on both gaming PC. Although you can connect them to a like to, but we'll talk more about that later example cost more than even the Quest 3 does and standalone nature and affordable pricing of the At $499.99 US for the 128GB model, and 3 costs about twice as much as a Quest for double the money? Well let's start by each headset. You of course get the and a USB C charging cable and wall adapter. and a rubber cover for the facial interface if for the Quest 3 because the facial interface now I don't have to worry about the glasses The facial interface on the Quest 2 is made to be fairly comfortable, but it also does a good when you're sharing your headset with friends. some people had allergic reactions to this foam mitigate this problem and make cleaning your but I find that to be much less comfortable on facial interfaces from companies like VR Cover come with the headset, sooo yah. The Facial which at first I found to be kinda stiff and not foam interface, but as I've been using it, I feel comfortable to wear. It does however have the so I'm waiting for VR Cover's official The lenses on the Quest 3 are a very nice upgrade Fresnel lenses which have these concentric rings spot than the pancake lenses used on the Quest 3. that's the spot in the lenses you have to get your For anyone that has used a Quest 2 you know this amount of adjusting the headset to get it just noticeably larger, it's not gigantic and it does but it is easier to locate and much When it comes to finding the sweet spot to do with the distance between your pupils. so both the Quest 2 and Quest 3 have what is Quest 2 has 3 preset positions you can choose not everyone falls into one of these three can get it to stay between two settings if but it can be a little tricky getting as they're not designed to do that. The Quest on the underside you can adjust while wearing between 58 and 70mm. And yes, this distance Moving on to the head strap, I am not a fan the Quest 2 or the Quest 3. The stock better than the stock strap for the Quest but in all honesty I ditched the stock head using it for the first time. There weren't any 3rd but within the first week after it's launch some printable adapter that allowed me to use one of I did until I found a head strap I wanted to I think is how it's pronounced, which I you'd like to check it out I'll place a link The Quest 3's controllers are smaller and This is due in large part to the omission of the controller haptics in my opinion than the Quest because of how weak they are. The battery life outstanding in my opinion. Each controller uses very long time. I don't know how long exactly, 3 controllers and the battery percentage used around 40 or 50 hours and I know the Quest 2 Both the Quest 2 and Quest 3 support navigate menus and even play some games When it comes to weight, the Quest 2 is coming in at 17.7 ounces or 503 grams 515 grams. Now while the Quest 3 is slightly it actually feels a little bit lighter the Quest 3 is 40% slimmer than the Quest your face the balance is better and therefore does not include the facial interface. With be pretty close to the same, but once you take Other physical differences between the headsets ports, but the Quest 3's has been moved to the but the one on the Quest 3 has been moved to The power button on the Quest 3 has also side and the volume rocker is more or less be used with a charging dock accessory which the Quest 2 on the other hand does not The last difference on the outside of the headset course the cameras. The Quest 2 has 4 infra red as well as for the passthru which allows you to and a depth sensor. Four of the cameras are infra cameras for the pass thru. These color cameras are you to not only see your real world surroundings so when you reach out and touch something in the Since we're on the subject of the passthru no comparison, the Quest 3's passthru is WAY to see the real world you simply double activate passthru mode. On the Quest 2 you see a the world around you. It works well enough when or to get a drink or something, but if you're your PC you can forget it. You'll need to take of things. The Quest 3's full color passthru the Quest 2's passthru. I don't know what the clearer than that of the Quest 2. You can PC with the headset still on your face. Now it's still far from perfect. It's still distortion as the headset tries stitching It is because of this improved passthru though compelling mixed reality experiences. There available at the time I'm making this video, of them are much more than tech demos at this give an idea of what kind of things we can mixed reality games do work on Quest 2 like my room into an aquarium, but there are Of course the passthru isn't the only it also boasts a 30% increase in the pixel a single LCD panel with a resolution of between 72 and 120Hz. The Quest 3 has with a resolution of 2064 x 2208 pixels per This means visuals on the Quest 3 are sharper In order to push all these extra pixels the Quest 2 processor which has roughly two times the found in the Quest 2. This of course means the higher resolutions and more detailed game Red Matter 2. It was already one of the best I reviewed and you can check out in the cards updated it for the Quest 3 and it is absolutely and crisp on the Quest 3 it's hard to believe it's same level of lighting and shadow effects you find to the resolution and textures, it looks every Both headsets have access to the exact same games run on both the Quest 2 and the Quest 3. So if can still play all your old games. So far there in my opinion it would be foolish for a developer time. Meta has sold something like 20 million and at the time I'm making this video I'm for the Quest 3, but I'm certain there are so for the foreseeable future I expect the making their games playable on the Quest 2 as fact makes upgrading to a Quest 3 a much argue what's the point of paying more for to run on the Quest 2? To counter this argument or are working on, updates to their games to take so for those that do upgrade to the Quest 3 this of course assumes the game developer if they don't then the game will look more To use either headset you first have to set up the Boundary. You do this manually on the Quest to be and you can do this manually on the Quest that scans your room to determine your play some mixed reality experiences, but not for Thanks to it's increased power and resolution, the media consumption than it's predecessor. When I called BigScreen which allows you to watch and I wasn't all that impressed with it to be the image didn't look good to me because I distracting and visually... painful... for lack of 3's increased resolution, apps like BigScreen look but it's much less harsh on the eyes, so for content. Just to be clear, I'd still rather but when comparing the Quest 2 and Quest 3 side While many things about the Quest 3 are superior be far worse and that is the microphone. The both headsets is actually very similar. They're but they sound plenty good enough in problem with plosives. When you say stuff peppers the mic on the Quest 3 pops where as Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers. Now I don't think Meta is using a lower is causing this is due to the positioning one on each side on the bottom of the headset. it has 3. There's one on the front of the headset noise cancellation and stuff like that, but the behind the face plate. The sound of your voice which is also where the air enters in to cool the as you're speaking directly into the mics causing by Meta. It takes what is actually a decent Being standalone devices both the Quest 2 and hours on both devices. I do feel the Quest when they're new, but my Quest 2 is a couple years last as long as it used to which I've remedied by pack. Unfortunately this is the nature of lithium a charge as long as they did when they were new, at some point you're going to want to buy some As for charging the batteries, it takes so for a new headset, charging takes around 2 At the beginning of the video I Quest 3 can be used for PC VR and Well it's later! To use either headset with a PC there are two ways Quest Link. This requires the use of a USB C cable way, which is my preferred method, is wirelessly PC to your WiFi router with a network cable and your headset. There are other apps you can use for but using a Quest headset for PC VR is a into any more detail than that here. As for how the resolution is noticeably better on the Quest game settings. Having said that, the Quest 2 does WAY better than any stand alone but due to it's higher resolution sharper and clearer when comparing I know this has been a looong video, but We've gone over a lot of stuff and I hope it's between these two headsets. So back to our is it worth paying double the money Well I'm sure you know by now the answer is; best standalone headset available today, then the has a Quest 2 and is looking to possibly up their you feel the upgrades to the Quest 3 over the or not. And for someone on a budget, or someone then the Quest 2 is a great choice as it provides Subscribe!