- SpaceX is preparing to of all the crazy things like launching a Tesla Roadster past Mars, catching a massive faring from and a giant net, and reusing a Falcon 9 This might be the most SpaceX is attempting to catch Starship's Super after it's flown to space And although this might and maybe pretty stupid, we'll explain how exactly they plan to do this. I'm Tim Dodd, the Everyday Astronaut, and today we'll go over the flight profile, what and perhaps most importantly, why. Why is SpaceX trying to catch the largest rocket Okay, let's get started. This video is sponsored by Ground News. As of the making of this video, we're just days away from SpaceX's first potential catch attempt. Now, unfortunately, I so I can't tell you how but I can tell you what the plan is, but keep in mind that this plan could and likely will change what they learn after the first attempt. That tends to be the SpaceX way. Try something ridiculously of success aren't very great, and then learn from the successes and perhaps more importantly, Quick side note, this is a fairly short overview of this process. If you want a more detailed explanation on how exactly the tower and the booster operate may I suggest watching video on this topic. Okay, so here's an overview of the rocket and the mission profile. Starship is, of course, the largest and most powerful rocket ever built. It's gargantuan standing and 9 meters wide. It's the largest heavier than air vehicle to ever leave the ground. The Starship full stack is liftoff, which means it of thrust to get it off the ground. So the Super Heavy booster calls upon 33 of the most advanced to get the job done. And of course, these are SpaceX's cycle Raptor engines. At T - 3 seconds, to ignite, and they quickly which would be about 75 MN of thrust. And once the engines produce weighs, it'll leave the pad The booster ascends longest and a half minutes, getting to an altitude of about 70 kilometers, and having traveled over 60 before commanding most of But interestingly, the booster so the rocket can do the which is called hot staging. Hot staging is where you light the upper stage is still attached to the booster while it's running in order to increase performance and make starting the upper stage engines easier in some ways. Then at two minutes and 41 seconds, Starship accelerates away from starts to turn around that are running the and by cleverly tilting the grid fins. So the Starship exhaust minutes and 48 seconds. Super Heavy, then lights up and performs a boost which changes its trajectory to aim back towards the launch site for the first catch attempt. During this boost back burn, there's something noteworthy The booster and pad will of distinct health checks and a half minutes of flight. If the flight computers are happy and the teams at SpaceX see that everything is good on their end, a manual command will be sent director, which will allow for the booster to target the launchpad for Now, if the manual command isn't sent or if the computers see any or the launch tower, to a trajectory that will of the launchpad in the Gulf of Mexico. Similar to the prior to be made prior to after jettisoning the hot staging ring that gave the exhaust gas of the upper stage a place to vent. While attached to the to fall back to earth and eventually reenters the atmosphere. The hot stage ring is a by the way, eventually we shouldn't see that anymore. As the atmosphere thickens, the booster uses its to help control and guide the booster to its targeted touchdown site. Now, these grid fins use from Teslas to actually to control the fins, to fly at a bit of an angle aided by the chimes along the which allows the atmosphere to scrub off additional velocity and makes for a slightly which saves precious propellant. After all, even a cylindrical produce some lift, so it that range, even if it's targeted short of the launchpad just by flying it and gliding it through the atmosphere. So the booster continues to decelerate due to the atmosphere getting therefore drag becomes Now, you may notice that an entry burn here. That's because unlike the Heavy booster doesn't Its stainless steel, beefy to skip the entry burn entirely, which is a very big performance that propellant to accelerate of using it to slow slowdown on descent, right about when the booster is going through the Transonic region. So transitioning from it lights up 13 engines As the booster gets closer to the ground, it shuts down the 10 middle ring engines and relies on the center three engines to precisely control it for the remaining portion This offers a big advantage burn like the Falcon 9 because it allows the booster to be fully controlled on all Unlike a single engine which it requires assistance from the grid fins and cold gas thrusters to control roll three engines also can throttle down low to hover, which is something of doing because even one of nine Merlin engines setting is still producing weighs when it's nearly empty. So the Falcon 9 has to time If it starts too soon, the before it reaches the ground, and of course, it either have and fall, or it'll But having the ability to hover and precisely control the booster with just the engines is a to this last important step, which is landing the of the launch tower, which You may have noticed that I tower and not have the because that's honestly to think about this whole thing. It's unknown how much coordination have in the catching process, or if it's purely just for a GPS target and the arms will be at that Perhaps the arms do have and a way to adjust for some offsets, but we don't think that or down at all during the catch, but I guess we'll just have to see. As the booster closes in on and get within the reach of the arms. It'll slow down to nearly a hover as the arms are closing in on the booster, so the booster can land on The arms do have a small amount of padding along the landing rails to reduce potential damage to the booster. The arms will basically and hopefully that ensures contact with the rails. And again, if you need a how exactly the arms can and kind of adjust and all that stuff, definitely watch Ryan Hansen Okay, so back to the catch. The booster will end up of the launch mount, and the water deluge system, the same one that it used during takeoff. To be honest, I'm a bit considering it'll be down and it's at the very top of the tower. They actually will be catching So it's quite a long ways but I suppose why not do it? If you have it, you might of damage anyway you can. Right? Okay. Then at this after takeoff, the booster three engines, and all of the mass of the nearly empty by the launch tower arms. And this whole catch thing is something that we've seen SpaceX between SLAP tests and let them slap a test and weight simulator tests. They seem to have enough to put all the pieces together. Oh, and meanwhile, while these Starship upper stage until about T plus eight and a half minutes or in the case of flight to continue testing the reentry conditions. When speaking of the Starship upper stage. Once they can confidently times and nail a pinpoint They'll also hopefully begin back to the launch tower So that's the exact plan But what about perhaps Well, before we answer that, let's talk about our sponsor Ground News. Ground News is an app and website that gathers news sources globally and So you can compare how different outlets cover the same story. Fun fact, it was founded Harlene Kaur, who worked on and New Horizons. Let's take a look at how the last Starship launch was covered in the media. There were over 160 articles, and we can see visually where the biases lean on with 26% leaning left, 62% center, and 12% leaning right. There's also the factuality chart and the ownership chart, of these articles were written And these are things that can Then when we scroll down, we can see every article about Flight 4 and compare the headlines. I think it's fun to see headline, which ones mentioned Exploding or Test or Elon Musk I personally enjoy scrolling which helps me stay informed and gives me perspectives that I might have previously missed. Ground news has been invaluable to me for enhancing my knowledge and critical thinking about Subscribe through my link at for 40% off the ground news, unlimited access vantage plan this month. That's the plan that I use, and I highly recommend to stay well-informed and gain a deeper Okay, now, back to Y. Why is SpaceX trying to catch Why are they taking such a huge risk? Why? Well, here's the answer. The reason to catch the booster is to increase the performance of the rocket, decrease the costs associated with ocean and even pad landings, and also decrease the turnaround time between launches, at least eventually. How might catching the You might ask, well, to SpaceX was able to get You can kind of think of it as attached to the tower now, and if they are able to bring with such great control, the actual catch aspect I mean, after all, they can Booster to be within a and over almost every single launch. And the Super Heavy booster control compared to the In fact, former NASA for Human Exploration and Operations and current vice president of Build and Flight Reliability at that Flight Four's booster centimeter accuracy. That's astonishing, and this performance effect since it takes an even with every kilogram of dry mass. But is this really all Well, I mean, they've and they really see this of building a rapidly reusable system. The eventual goal is to times a day. If you need to collapse landing gear and transport the booster back via a ship or you know, maybe a and then lift it and integrate you're chewing up a lot of time and resources in that process. So if you can skip those of steps to ly. And although this Flight this booster B12 won't likely to work on these things to improve this process asap. And the final question might What if it blows up and Well, to that, I'd point to the first four Starship SN test flights where they did those high altitude hops because all of those blew up with relatively minimal damage. And keep in mind, by the it's nearly empty, so it doesn't have much of explosive power. So if something does go wrong, of energy into the metal shrapnel. It certainly wouldn't be a good thing, but it might not be as Or it's also kind of like how of Starship created what looked bomb throwing concrete everywhere. It looked bad, it looked really bad, but in reality, they were back up and running pretty improvements to the launchpad. And don't forget, there's and pad under construction, so hopefully having another regards to moving forward quickly. At the end of the day, this It's going to be perhaps one of the most ludicrous world of space flight. If SpaceX manages to catch to say they'll be nominated by the way, we officially for this year's Astro Awards and 26th, there'll be professionals in the special VIP speakers, and a huge party and celebration of space Don't miss out on one of the biggest and most fun space flight For more info and for early to Astro Awards Live right now. Okay, but what do you think Do you think SpaceX will manage to catch a booster on the first try, or will it be a massive explosion? If so, when do you think we'll on the second or third attempt? Never do you think They'll and I'll, they'll just give up on it. Lemme know your thoughts questions in the comments below. Thanks so much to my Patreon and ex subscribers for helping make content like this possible. If you wanna support the Astronaut, and maybe even screen, head on over to patreon.com/everydayastronaut While you're online, be sure and check out our for shirts like this orbital shirt, and a lot of new stuff, including our prop load collection, perhaps our Heat shield collection, which includes our color oversized beach towel, and hydro flask. Head it over to Thanks everybody. That's I'm Tim Dodd, the everyday to earth for everyday people.