Any big city in Southeast Asia's you know? Manila. It's a global issue. We can Pakistan, a lot of prostitution, and pimps around. We are in the heart of Kuala Lumpur, the capital try to find out the bitter truth about Malaysia. here. But before we show you this beautiful city some random people--foreigners and locals--to find why I call this episode &quot;The Bitter Truth the episode, and at the end of this video. probably a bit biased as well. I'm married to a home for me now. In these nine years, what's the the food's amazing, the weather is pretty really complain. If you weren't married to Yeah, absolutely. Tremendous place, centered right to places. I only want to highlight the positive things that are maybe not so pleasant here in yeah, it is frustrating. It's kind of a one-way bit of a challenge at rush hour. And yeah, how Yeah, no, I've got a bike. I've got a moped. So so it's pretty easy for me. But I think it's MRT stations, and there's some effort going you know, any big city in Southeast Asia's Manila I work there sometimes; it's pretty bad. Absolutely. Out in the suburbs, you've and even some of the local schools in the I would say a very safe, friendly place. Yeah, I would say, generally, for Southeast Asia, European cities, but it's not too bad. You know? where there's rubbish that's left, but... improving in this sense as well. Yeah, you know, there's more new properties, and things get in there... better. But I mean, that's part you can't have everything, can you? You know, sort of Malaysia, whereas you've got some other clinical now that it just feels doesn't even I've got one more question. Do you have a Yeah, World peace! It's my first time, and I like it. I went to Central Market; now I'm nice. How long is your holiday? and in total, is your holiday? little pleasure. Okay, are you working on KL then? representing my organization Empower organization. What does that mean exactly? active in Malaysia or also in Thailand? it's a professional exchange. Do you think I mean, there's so many different races here. and it seems very inclusive and welcoming and from Malaysia. Yes, I agree. I'm a big fan of Truth about Malaysia,&quot; and we are trying hear on social media. Is there something One of the issues I've learned of is of the amazing resources that the Suka Society that's just one thing I've learned while I've yeah. So that's also, human trafficking Yeah, and in Montana, we have something; it's it is a global challenge, yeah, for sure. it's very good for the world I believe. You've Bukit Bintang. You're walking to KLCC right disturbing or something that is not so nice here? seems like just a very welcoming city. Would Oh, absolutely, yeah. I but not this time. Is it safe here? You've seen... and no hassling, no stress, nothing. No. Can I do. Would you bring your children here? they would love it here. Would you say it's a Oh, yeah. I've seen so many families walking the world is to spread kindness and nurture Foong; I'm from Malaysia. Yes, I'm Chinese Malaysian. My you lived in Kuala Lumpur all your life, then? now. Oh, you live in a nice area, sir. What is so good about Kuala Lumpur? I'm from the Netherlands. Netherlands. I found it actually really beautiful. I'm About Kuala Lumpur and showing the beauty, but maybe, of Kuala Lumpur. Is there something not economy is slowly picking up, you know? Yeah. more and more tourists are coming to Malaysia. have money everywhere? Is the I think to live in Malaysia, you have to love Malaysia, so far so good. I mean, our security is I think it's getting better. So we try to abolish you see a change in the last, let's say, decade? we try to maintain and try to have a better living lot, and it's very beautiful at the moment--very Yes, I think the world can learn a lot about together in unity. Yes, do you think this is true? country. Yeah, we've got so many now we can see a lot of Myanmar Burmese, also staying in Malaysia. Yeah, so in society, do think... No everybody understands each other. there you go, yeah. You have friends from nine months here for an internship. Oh, cool, and now it's the first time since then, and What are you going to do in Vietnam? so I'm always eager to go back to Asia because I stay in Ho Chi Minh City for a few days, for a go up to Da Nang and Hoi An and meet some friends Yeah, and cool. Hey, good on you for it. I love it. Why did you stop here? and ex-colleagues and friends. So I was eager to and the food is great. You have so much choice. that you maybe don't like so much? Bukit Bintang in particular, like a lot 2009 it was not the case. It was more like an vibe. Someone that's coming on holiday for the No, on the negative side, no; it's always it's not much a city where you should, unlike and get around. And that's nice because maybe you bit less walkable, at least less rideable as well. and there's many things to do. There's a--I just just there. It was very nice. And this morning there are a few things to do. Ueah, that's is very nice. There you go, there you go. A but maybe less walkable, and like you say, some tourist-friendly? Easy to navigate by foot, yeah, here as well. Yeah, I love it. I love it. Hey, a message to the world or some wisdom to pass on? and don't do unpaid overtime. My day in Malaysia, the movie &quot;Entrapment&quot; with actors Sean Connery check it out? I love very much, so I was very We bumped into each other just now, and you Yes, tomorrow, my holiday finishes Kuala Lumpur. So then I fly back tomorrow. like Malaysia? Or how do you like Kuala Lumpur? many tourists. It's very not busy. Many I think, you as well. I'm like in between; Thailand so much better than Malaysia? I like nightlife. Yeah, I think much better in that you really don't like here in Kuala Yes, what I don't like, yeah, one thing if I it's allowed; I know. And no, astray, ah! I am a and that's why I'm making videos right now from the peninsula of Malaysia. I called draw more attention to this video so I'm able more people. So this way, maybe more people destination. After seeing this video. We but it's actually quite sweet here in Kuala and you want to help this channel, then please or on your Instagram. Thank you so much for like to say from the heart of Kuala Lumpur