If I gave you the choice to either buy the lives of 10,000 people in one year, We decided to do this. Cue the epic highlight reel of the year. We started this mission in Khayelitsha, where we found an orphanage need of our help because it was at risk I started back then, I saved more than 5330 children. Those children would be dead. But we keep on opening the doors, will come to our rescue. Like Beast Philanthropy. So we spent the next six months working with an ongoing supply of fresh food, While the orphanage was being built, we begin our next project, where we gave away Beast Philanthropy, is absolutely amazing. Thank you Mr Beast! Darren then flew to the Hopi Reservation in Arizona, There are over These people don't have very much, some of the most generous people The Hopi tribe is situated hundreds of miles away from the closest which is bad because the winters here and they need all the help they can get When we realized just how difficult it was neccessities, we decided to donate over It was amazing. Our kids, our people are just so happy. Thank you, MrBeast. We then found out that there is throughout Cambodia, so we partnered with Exceed Worldwide What we've experienced We're giving back people But most important, I realized that we we're giving them back I'm so excited. and I really thank you! Darren and Dan where they capsized a boat crocodiles! While they were there, they built a solar grid which gave the island electricity which will give the kids on the island We also built a bakery to empower from day one was a hit. We then travelled to Kenya, where fresh I am a father of six children That's why I work so My bicycle, it has no gears. One of the pedals is not there, the brakes are not 100% working, Sometimes I think, and put it on my bicycle, my life would be easier. So with the help of Lectric E Bikes, Mr Barasa and 1000 You have made work easier! It's so easy to ride! Darren and Dan then travelled to the Cure where we were able to provide This little girl has just got her cast off for the first time The magnitude of the surgeries that these kids are getting from Cure And the fact that Beast Philanthropy can come in here and help Cure is something that's going to affect me The construction of the orphanage and it was time to surprise No! Mama Rosie also told us about a boy 14 years ago with However, he was struggling to make money working full time at the airport. It kills me that I'm not into, I want to do that So we decided to surprise Yamkela acoustic guitar as well as award him music school in the country. See you in a year. The team then flew to Thailand, a country with over 2 million to meet with Michael and help him rescue Where we help thousands of dogs run for the very first time, As well as give Michael state of the art gas machine Really happy. Thank you very much. Darren then received this video from a Beast Philanthropy, please please help me save our village, our kids need you. So Darren immediately flew to Dora's sanctuary in Zambia, and is located in a dangerous area It became evident was holding them back to help develop this village Having to wake up thinking, That is still very difficult So we came up with a plan and scorching heat to our advantage that will provide electricity It was then time to turn on the lights couldn't contain their excitement. Mateo, turn on the lights! And we have lights! We then found out about a college kid thousands of pounds of food every month I originally started leftover meal swipes and I realized as I was getting close I have 50 meals left that I know I just had a pit in my stomach thinking So Darren flew there to meet him to a national scale. After witnessing everything it didn't take but an hour to know that we had committed to help them achieve their goal of feeding And with our help, Sharing Excess Hunts Point Produce produce market in the And that operation is going to be three times larger Next, Darren and Dan where thousands of children at this school and have lessons in these derelict These conditions had no dignity. These conditions would not make a child Once we saw this, So almost immediately construction, and a few months later, Just in time to surprise the kids Lastly, we flew to Nepal for a secret project But on that mission, Dan and Darren to sign out this video where the altitude Darren and I, are at the highest point It's been one hell of a year. You know, we've been working together on top of the world, And I wouldn't share this experience Send this to any billionaires you know, cars and instead help people. IT'S BEEN SUCH AN AND WE'VE HELPED SO MANY BUT NONE OF THIS WOULD HAVE BEEN POSSIBLE YOU ARE THE HEART AND AND WE ARE BEYOND GRATEFUL HUGE LOVE, BEAST PHILANTHROPY.