- [Male] Is it expected for I'm watching my way through 'Breaking Bad' for the first time, up to season three, episode three and I've been completely to avoid all spoilers. If what I'm about to at least you now know why. Basically, I absolutely Perhaps more than any another on a level with Joffrey from GoT. Everything she says, everything she does and the way she behaves around everyone just makes me wanna hit her Fair enough, she's been going through some life-altering tough times, but she acts like such a (bleep). I just wanna reach an episode where she gets killed off. No spoilers, please. - [Man] I hated her ball busting, control freakish, milquetoast ways from the moment I first clapped eyes on her. - [Woman] I'm a female, and I hate her ever-living guts! When anything tragic happens I don't know why my I think it's her stupid face. (groans) - [Man] I hate her I hate her body language, I hate her. She's beyond fucking annoying, to the extent I'm having an and I'm only at season two. - [Man] I hate Skyler so much. Everything she does annoys me and I generally just hate her so much. - [Man] Why couldn't the Mexican cartel come for Skyler instead of Walt or Hank? She is such a loud mouth and just is out to fuck up Walt's life. - [Man] The fact that she's always in Walt's business, in everything, being so Doesn't she just piss everyone off? - [Man] She overrules Walt despite what he tries to all while having cancer. Anna Gunn is one of those man-women. Mannish face, lanky body, man-feet. She doesn't change much from start to end. Too bad the kids don't find take all that money, and tell her how much of - [Man] Your opinion is a common one. Be careful though because who like to call you sexist (upbeat jazz music) - Did Skyler White in 'Breaking I've just finished re-watching the show and I'm here to tell you, objectively, no-- Okay, so obviously across of character conflict that make up 'Breaking Bad', there's plenty of legitimate to wind up disliking Skyler White, the increasingly volatile She starts the show as kind of a snob, being weirdly judge-y about despite him having terminal cancer. In one later scene, we're shown Skyler smoking a cigarette while pregnant. Throughout the series, she that wind up putting her and of course-- - I fucked Ted - The show is multilayered in having any character morally pure individual. Even Walt Junior doesn't make it out of the series fully unscathed. - [Walt Junior] Why you gotta be such a, a bitch? - [Hank] Hey, hey, hey. - [Walt Junior] Fucking die already. Just give up and die. - Jessie is at his core, a But nonetheless, frequently that knowingly hurt those around him. Hank is a dependable family man. But still in the end, a And Gus is a fabulous chef with a wonderful taste in jumpers who also threatens to butcher a man's entire family. I will kill your son. I will kill your infant daughter. - [Jack Saint] For the most part, the fan base surrounding And were able to navigate of the show's cast. Except for Skyler. People really, really, really, really, really fucking hated Skyler. - [Man] Skyler always annoyed me. She loved Walt before Why is that a problem to show her that his family is safe? - [Woman] I was hoping that the house and chop her up. - [Jack] Negative were so common during that it almost became kind of a meme. She regularly topped most hated polls, cast and crew alike about her character, and this pickup artist blog, even refers to her as a minger. So today we're gonna break up why they're partially right, and then why they're wrong again. Let's go! - [Skyler] You know what, Walt. Someone has to protect this family from the man who protects this family. (electronic music) Sell us some dope, Sell us some dope, - Hey folks, this episode by NordVPN, an online privacy service In lieu of using my spot just to personally recommend the service, I did wanna briefly go that I'm sure a fair few Last month, news broke that had been compromised. And since then there's been regarding what's happened The short version is that while there was a temporary breach, this was and no sensitive user data Nord has a long held policy Regardless, since then Nord to prevent even an from happening again. Conducting a full scale security audit, building dedicated transitioning to 100% fully owned servers and more that's detailed in the description. I'm not saying this out of hearing that a service could've left my viewers at risk was a huge concern to me. So I've been trying to learn If this incident has left you skeptical, I don't blame you. But, if you're looking for a and provide online personal security, I'd still 100% recommend NordVPN. For a limited time, Nord is also offering 70% As well as (quack) extra So if you're interested, use at nordvpn.com/jacksaint . So, I think if you ask the the character of Skyler the answer you'll get can because she was written to be unlikeable. Particularly in seasons when Skyler hate was at its peak, she's always almost to our main characters. Somebody trying to get in with their various schemes. As I've described, this starts as Skyler trying to get Walt with his shady dealer ex-pupil. Then, as it goes on, we about Walt's double life threatening to expose him to the police, forcing him to leave the family home and just generally preventing of leaving a life of luxury to his family. Skyler makes everything harder Aside from early in season four wherein she's forced to or risk having him expose Place your bets for when the she was actually kind of okay. But, well I think the reasoning because she got in Walt's when you realize that the entire rest of the show's cast. Some of whom are amongst its Mike and Hank would probably Fan favorites who a lot of trouble over the show's run. (fist punch) No, this goes a bit deeper. And I think a good place at one sequence of the show, one that barely ever gets talked about, but I think is actually one of the most impactful It was a scene for me that really cemented the character of Walter White as an almost effortless manipulator. And, as it turns out, was the decided Skyler was (electric guitar music) Season three episode three IFT with the focus squarely on Skyler as she goes about her daily life. For some context, the finale had ended with Skyler finally putting all the pieces together, becoming the first person Walt's criminal double life. Her response was to get her and her family as far away from him as possible. Not only because of how hard he'd deceived those that deception was so he could work one of the most dangerous with a wife and kids. So, she calls for a divorce and tells Walt to quietly leave the for not outing him as a secret crime lord. A choice, that would risk making her an accessory to his crimes. Except, at the start of this episode, Walt didn't stick to the deal. - [Walt] I've got your Restrain this! - [Jack] See, in the last scene of the previous episode, Walt of being made to feel like breaking back into the house as the man of the household. He calls Skyler's bluff. She threatens to call the police and he tells her to go for it. So, it's watching this scene that I think it is really interesting. I think it offers a really visceral look at the dynamic between Walt and Skyler. And by extension, the audience. In the past I have talked can frame conflicts between that you can be lead to at one person or the other, even in situations where should point towards our So for example in the case a band member can beat but because we're focusing so much on his reaction and immediate regret, it's him we're being drawn to emotionally. That's not really the case here. Pretty pointedly, this tense encounter between Walt and Skyler never gives us a definitive perspective. Shots will either show both or will get close ups of each. But never one more than the other. As a quick point of reference and consider how much about Walt Junior's emotional the conversation. Not much. Or at least not as much So, dialogue here is all the And given that dialogues through characters who significant parts of the context here, it makes the scene kind You see what you want to see. So, when the police desperately working out while he stands in the back if you're sympathetic to Walt, you see Skyler at her worst. Here's Walt desperately as the loving father who only wants his family back together. And here's Skyler, trying the house because of her own moral purity. If you are sympathetic to Skyler, you see all the same things the opposite. Here's a guy playing a pantomime version of the father he never really was. Knowingly rubbing it into his wife's face that she's in no position When Walt says - I haven't been the most - [Jack] You don't just hear the words, but all the bullshit It's a spot on demonstration with Walt projecting a heavily to cast Skyler's perspective into doubt. Hearing the way I've gone over to think it's pretty straightforward that Walt is the bad guy here. Manufacturing this narrative of him being the regretful father who but just wants that one last chance, even though we know full well he doesn't really regret and he is going to keep doing it whether or not Skyler approves. But the response to this scene by fans echoes a lot of the same from Skyler haters earlier. That this is another case an obsessive control freak, as he attempts to keep his life together. Walt Junior agrees with that summation. - [Walt Junior] Why you gotta, - [Jack] As Skyler makes the of his son and daughter, So, what do we learn? Well to break that down, any elusion that there's several Walt is not an earnest loving family man who made mistakes but And Skyler is completely to get him as far away by any means necessary. This is true both from Walt's perspective, who knows full well that rival dealers and thugs had threatened repeatedly by this point, and from the audience's. Like, literally, at the we saw two cartel members ready to butcher Walt This was exactly the kind when she first gave Walter the boot. And it happened moments Yeah, the narrative what he thought was best unreasonably combative went on. Now, was all of this just on the part of the viewers? Yeah, for at least some of As the actor who played Skyler, Anna Gunn, expressed herself in a piece she wrote in 2013 on the subject, there were clearly gendered aspects of the kinds of criticism she received. In her own words. - [Woman] A typical online was a shrieking hypocritical the great life she has. I have never hated a TV-show character as much as I hate her one poster wrote. The consensus among the haters was clear. Skyler was a ball and an annoying bitch wife. - [Jack] Scenes like were not uncommon in the show at all especially not as we The narrative dissonance the risks Walt was taking and the danger he was putting his family that he was keeping them safe and they had nothing to worry about. You, Junior, Holly. You are completely safe. - One of his most famous the &quot;I am the danger&quot; speech is a perfect encapsulation of this. A moment where Skyler questions Walt, on the level to which he really Leading to an authoritative monologue where Walt declares that, if anything, he's the one other people - You clearly, don't know so let me clue you in. I am not in danger, Skyler. I am the danger. - [Jack] A few moments later. (kicking) (thumping) (tasering) - I did not do this! - I will kill your infant daughter. - However you shake it, On basically every occasion complaining at, disparaging her concerns are absolutely spot on. Hot take. Even what seems to be of Skyler being just as bad her sleeping with Ted and then was basically the It was a bold gambit to alienate a man who by his continued actions at greater and greater risk. It was a power move. As much as Walt playing the as an unreasonable house except Skyler wasn't unreasonable and Walt was endangering his family. And the decision she makes that the direct result of Walt's continued ego preventing him from (electronic sustained chord) So at this point I guess That those who continue to not particularly paying or that the reasons they if her actions were technically Or maybe they're just really pro-weed. - Do not sell marijuana to my husband. - So the question is, what so unsympathetic, even if she was right? And it turns out, in the realms of shows, about men leading seedy second lives and constantly fucking up for reasons fully validated by the story, Skyler isn't alone. So &quot;Breaking Bad&quot; joins a that's also involves a their partners while living The key examples I take and &quot;Mad Men&quot; and their &quot;Dexter&quot;. Also &quot;Fargo&quot; to a lesser extent and &quot;Barry&quot; to a lesser-er lesser extent. All of these series male main characters with their wives or girlfriends either know nothing or very little about. And in all those cases, a lot of the shows' lasting conflict. Except &quot;Fargo&quot;. They kind of resolve that one early. - Oh jeez. Oh jeez. - [Jack] The significant whilst the male leader and usually cheats on their partner. And low and behold, it's those partners that fans tend to wind up hating most. - It is funny because I have had people go &quot;I can't stand that woman&quot; or whatever and I'm like (laughing) - Carmela Soprano and regularly get the same that Skyler does, often hated by fans and seen as unreasonable, and obsessed. To be clear, I don't feel the same way about all these characters. No shade to Betty stands, would hate her a lot more than I do with someone like Skyler. Skyler never made her But this is a pattern. Dudes who are clearly that could easily break apart and hate bestowed on as they become increasingly These emotions are justified. They are rational responses about fundamental parts But why are they still overly emotional, nagging, as described by Gunn. In simple terms, it's the right thing. It's about doing what a is expected to do. In the same way Skyler contradicts as either the loving family these characters contradict in the story. To be disruptive, to be are not bad because they are wrong or irrational choices but because those characters Co-operative, loyal, store war supporters of the lead character. Betty Draper was a model of That's literally her career She, like these other characters, to be too human to keep of what she's supposed to be. And, almost compulsively, By contrast, these stories are desperately trying to fit - [Gus] What does a man do, Walt? A man provides for his family. - [Jack] It could be Dexter Morgan clearly contextualized as a genuine psychopath But nonetheless, filling punish-er style, slaughter in Or it could be as in the slick executive who and every woman wants to be with. Tony Soprano, the Italian mob boss and Heisenberg, the feared drug king pin. Classic roles of masculine - You're god damn right. - Within these stories, if these characters are right. Don's desperation to lead to nothing but and broken relationships in his life. Walt repeatedly refuses clear exists from his dangerous situation to maintain an air of supremacy. Lester Nygaard thinks he's real cool until he trips and falls, These men embody the toxic reality of trying to confirm to they're told they should aspire to. But, by the nature of the is also being fed these roles, a large chunk of them don't In the back of their head, they see men aspiring to be alpha males. And they think to themselves, hey maybe if he can So even if they're even if it's constantly and miserable this to fit this imagined role is, in the back of their head the Sure this is mostly going to be men, but it'd be naive to assume all of us aren't just as well taught of our gender, sexuality or whatever else are supposed to be. Much as she's the first to identify the reality of Walt's Skyler is the first to of him being motivated by of pride, ego and self evaluation. In the concluding episode of what anyone who'd really would've long since realized. - You need to understand one more time that you did this for the family - [Walt] I did it for me. - [Jack] When you re watch &quot;Breaking Bad&quot; with all of this in mind, as a pretty heroic character. Particularly in her knowledge that all of her efforts to protect her family, would repeatedly lead And all of her predictions of Walt's choices, would come to pass exactly. The marriage would crumble. She would be alienated from her son. Her family would be broken. In all of &quot;Breaking Bad&quot;, on the basis that it was And on the rare occasions she did, it would be a constant source of criticism and dismay from viewers. She would frequently let or ridiculous or idiotic. Because she wasn't seeking that she found pleasing. She did what she felt was right. Genuinely. In a constant effort to I'm not somebody who has spent too much a rigid masculine ideal. But I have found myself by male figures who very clearly have. What I see is the same toxic cycle. Attempts to reach some level of respect through authority or dominance that ultimately lead and resentment. The problem is this is not when we're going through it first hand. The common speculation and when he becomes Heisenberg, It's hard to really know if one he's faking or if it was Ideally, this is what &quot;Mad Men&quot; and the others Allowing us to take a the narratives we're being fed and are unknowingly trying to match up to. Certainly I think they help me. The trouble is, to do of targeting ideas like toxic depict it which inevitably really been forced to I'm sure for many viewers, &quot;Breaking Bad&quot; was always of a dying cancer patient right up until the show all that he was wrong. It's been billed from the start as the story of Mr And a lot of dudes still (tv playing in background) - [Together] Say hello (gunfire) - [Walt Junior] Nice - [Jack] That's why I have to thank those who subject themselves that comes from people they never really questioned And I think in this case to a person who suffered a and disdain for the role I'm gonna leave here today from Gunn's article on and the reception of her character. The outcome of a decade spent dealing with an increasingly bitter fan base. Sending her anything from - [Woman] I can't say the center of the storm of Skyler hate. But in the end, I'm glad that that it has taken place in public and that it has illuminated some of that we often ignore or in our everyday lives. - [Jack] Hey folks, thanks Sorry for the delay on this one, I re-watched all of &quot;Breaking and then I re-watched a and &quot;Mad Men&quot; as further prep and then I played a bunch of X-COM. That wasn't prep, I just did it. But if you'd like to join me in playing it and more during my my regular live stream Aside from that, you can on Twitter @lackingsaint . I hope you all enjoyed this. If so, please consider subscribing or sharing it or anywhere else. If you especially like my by throwing me a buck or Ko-fi for one time donations. Either way, it helps It also gets you in the On top of all the people on this list, I'd like to give a special Callan Stein, Connor Dobbs, malpertuis, NoMoreWorlds With an extra special thanks Also, one final thank you to NordVPN for sponsoring me on this video. Reminder to check out the link below for an exclusive offer on their service. Other than that, thanks Love you all and stay safe.