The first two pieces of information that are the flow (GPM) and the head pressure. important pieces of information and explain First we'll show you quickly all then for those who want further explanation Reading a pump chart is very simple once you and what the charts are telling you. What you're or pump impeller size curve. The pump within the volute of that pump model, as the size and model number of the pump. There will size with different performance results. point on this curve. Here are the curves Pump curves are also called a head curve, impeller synonymous. Different manufacturers use different GPM. We'll show you the head pressure, the Looking at the impeller lines we see each with its own curve. So, this pump chart which you to order different size impellers. It's like the size of the cup; small, medium, large or big you can see from this chart that you have following sizes of impellers. You got seven eight and a half inch, nine inch, and nine and a gives you plenty of options when selecting a pump. water flow rate. Your GPM the either into or out of an occupied space, or for a such as chilled water, heating hot water, or industry each gallon of water carries various So, when we discuss pumps we need to know moved to the equipment in a minute. Hence Gallons on the pump chart the flow (GPM) is represented axis along the bottom of the chart highlighted in and then here is the formula for determining GPM. cooling load from doing a load calculation on BTU's per hour needed at the peak for a our total tonnage for the building at peak load Fahrenheit Delta-T so (q) meaning quantity which is a constant. The constant is based on times the pacific gravity of water, which is times the Delta-T which we determine when we use GPM as the missing item that you (q) which was going to be our tons divided formula when we do that we come up with 216 GPM So, the lines for total head run Depending on the head pressure for this particular The head pressure values run on the Y-axis along a pump you'll use the GPM and the total head as that'll be your operating point. Efficiency on the chart. So, the efficiency lines or curves in the range as shown. The higher the value the The greatest efficiencies are near In this example you can see that 76 efficiency you want to design for to achieve maximum energy a high of 76 on this chart. You never or far right of the best efficiency point. The BEP a little to the left, a little to the right, but noise, and vibration. You're going to get a lot outside the efficiency points. Horsepower lines the desired pump operation at the GPM and head run diagonally across the chart and have the four have two horsepower, three horsepower, a five So, now that we've covered the basic lines. Those over. We'll look at a few more things and get in a characteristics of a pump curve. You'll notice while, you notice some appear to be flattened When selecting pumps for closed HVAC systems, that have flat curves allow for greater range of family of pump curves. Pump manufacturers use pump as shown. It gives you a quick into your design parameter or flow and head at 65 feet of head, the family of pump curves here a 2BD. The overlap of some of these is due to each model, but you can see those particular case we would go and open up that particular model there are several options to get more out of one to change the size of the pump's impeller. You'll impeller curve size, one for each size of Now each volume can hold a certain range in size and you're having a problem with flow, you might the maximum size. You may be able to increase or if you're way off to the right of the curve you trimmed to make it a small impeller to reduce the your actual operating point. The system curve must the pump. The engineer will design the pump for based on the pressure losses of a fixed heating Any changes in flow will have a resulting change a closed loop system the water moves around in a does the water leave the system and become exposed loop systems like chilled water, heating hot don't usually need to worry about static pressure. is that the supply and return pipes run the static pressure. The predominant pressure lost in by the flow passing through the pipes, the valves, In an open system, the most common in the HVAC Condenser water is used to remove heat from the tower. The pump has to consider the difference systems, as they are not equal in vertical length. goes to the cooling tower's cold water basin water it goes up to the distribution nozzles or The difference between these two So, static pressure, the height of fluid exerts by standard pressure gauges. The greater the pressure. For every one foot in height of water So, it takes 2.33 feet or 0.71 meters of Now, if you're on a project site and you have the head pressure. From the suction and discharge at the current operating point. If the system you a good indication of the pumps head pressure suction pressure on the gauge is 90, while So, if we use some basic math we can convert the the previous slides. So, the difference between is 40 psi. So, to turn this into feet we need psi. So, by multiplying the difference in the A little over 92 feet. You can use to derive at the pump's total head, and You can go to Bell and Gossett's website, could use to select a pump, or just to play the choices you have here, constant speed, based on best efficiency point. Let's just pick a then you have a choice between end suction, inline Let's just pick a couple of End Suction let's put 200 GPM. A small pump, say 60 feet of over here whether it's series, or in parallel, and let's stay with that. Get Results. It'll Here they are listed, here pump series, pump size, highest efficiency at the top. It looks like brake and Brake Horsepower, motor horsepower and it'll pop up the curve chart. You can see GPM that we put in, and our 60 feet of head, and and let's see we can ask for the operating these other operating points, and system curve, and there's the system curve and then if you want to add additional speeds in Let's throw in 1500 RPM, and as you see puts down another RPM line for 1600, and So, pretty neat tool. You can see your efficiency if you like that video please give it a thumbs