Hello and welcome to my channel. In this video, I will quickly show you how Expo application to the app store. I am an Android user, so I will deploy my I published the app in the Google Play Store, Just follow the video, and don't skip anything; First, let's start an Expo application. Select the blank template and continue to Here, I am going to make a very simple application, If you are in a hurry, you can skip a few For this application, I am going to add a Now, add some styles to the title, image, Next, run the application. Oh! I missed adding the image to the assets folder. So, I am going to add the image and rerun Now, you can see that our application is running Now, we are going to build an APK for this For this, we are going to follow the official Step 1 is to install the EAS-CLI in our project. Step 2 is to log in to our Expo account. If you don't have one, create your Expo here. Step 3 is to configure our application for Here, I am going to test the APK on my Android Now, our application is well-configured, so Use the following command in the terminal I will not suggest you make changes to the an APK for the first time. It's a one-time change thing, so be aware Next, we will let Expo generate a new Keystore. If you are using Android Studio, then you want. Now, our application build has started, and It may take 5-10 minutes to complete the build. In the meantime, don't forget to read the Like, if you are using a private NPM package, Does your app code depend on environment variables? Add them to your build configuration. There is more to read here, so read this information Now our build is complete. Download this build from the official Expo After downloading, I am adding this APK to APK. After the installation, you can see that the and it's smooth. Here, I missed something to add, the app icon I already made the image with the exact pixel original one. But unfortunately, we can't see the changes Now, let's build our app for production. Use the command EAS build and select Android. Now, wait for the build to complete. Last time, we built the APK, but this time AAB stands for Android App Bundle. We will add this AAB file to the Google Play Our AAB build is complete. Download the AAB from the Expo website. Now we are going to push this app to production. You need to have a Google Play Console account If you don't have one, you can create it Keep in mind that there is a one-time registration Once you log in to your dashboard, you can &quot;create app&quot; button. Here, you need to provide some basic details whether it's a game or an app, and whether Make sure to read everything carefully before In the &quot;setup your app&quot; section of the dashboard, The first task is to provide a privacy policy If you don't have one, you can create a simple it using GitHub Pages. If you need help with this step, let me know a quick video to guide you through the process. Once you have a URL, add it to the privacy Next, you will need to manage any restricted subscriptions, or any other restrictions. This is important because if Google reviewers from being published. If your app contains ads, make sure to select When it comes to content rating, you will Make sure to read them carefully before answering. If your app contains miscellaneous content, Submit the rating and go back to the dashboard. Select your target audience, and make sure the information. If your app is not a news app and has no relation If your app does not collect or share any If your app is not a government app, select Choose the category of your app (in this case, Add your email and click save. You will then need to add short and long descriptions If you have already written them, you can sections. You will also need to add an app icon, a feature Make sure to design them according to the In the &quot;create and publish a release&quot; section, publish your app. If you want to publish it worldwide, select Click on &quot;create new release&quot; and upload the You can also add a message for this release. You might encounter an error when you click If your app doesn't contain any ads, select If it does, select &quot;yes&quot; and choose the appropriate Save your changes, and the error should disappear. The downloadable size of the application is Click on &quot;start rollout to production,&quot; and which can take 2-7 days depending on the type That's it for this video. If you're interested in React Native or Firebase, for more valuable content. Don't forget to subscribe for more videos,