Beirut, summer '96, Hezbollah celebrates 150 bodies returned by Israel in exchange killed in southern Lebanon. An unbalanced exchange, just like the war that between the Jewish State on the 850 km2 occupied by Israel, within the Lebanese border. On one side, one of the best on the other side, 25,000 mobilized, armed with their and rocket launchers, At the head of Hezbollah, a 35-year-old Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah. The Israeli enemy failed or even undermine our political Israel has also failed to create a rift On the contrary, everyone today that we have grown in popularity. Last April, Hassan Abed lost under Israeli shells. He understands, the sympathy that civilians express He has always forbidden his children For him, the fundamentalist organization to the Islamist thesis than to the revolt of the trapped Without Israel, there would be By invading our villages in 1982, caused our bankruptcy, And today, what are they still doing It is because of Israel that even before Hezbollah was founded. Take for example what happened at the time of The inhabitants had fled the village. Only the old people remained. The Israelis grouped them in the square, and machine-gunned at close range. How do you expect people You think these old people didn't have loved ones who are mourning them? It is obvious to anyone who has lost to join the resistance. Listen to these planes. What are they doing at this time? Look around you. Do you see any resistance men? No. So what are they doing here? These planes are theirs. What are they doing here In response many young people they adhere to this Islamic which today is practically to oppose the IDF, the Israeli army. Entering the Islamic resistance, is firstly to follow in a camp in the Baalbek region. This training camp is secret. Like others in the region, it's been installed and will be so as not to be spotted Both my beliefs and my patriotism prevent me from sitting idly by in the face of the occupation That's why I really wanted to fight. With the help of Almighty God, of my faith and the means I went into the fight Thanks to the faith that I have I have no fear in combat, not even that of death. We're in love with martyrdom. After an intensive workout, these future martyrs return to Their affiliation with Hezbollah However, they can from one day be called upon to participate Their mission accomplished, under the gaze of UNIFIL soldiers, supposed to serve as a buffer between Timur Goksel, based in Lebanon for 20 years, admits his powerlessness These people live here. They are local residents. What can I tell them? Don't wander around your villages? They live here. They are the ones who could "Who are you to give us orders?" So we're just trying to guess If they are in possession of weapons, we tell them to leave, to get away And they do. But these Hezbollah are too smart We prevent the infiltration If we find them in the vehicles, confiscate them or turn away their owners outside the regions we control. Failing to change the course of the war, including nearly 300 French people, provide humanitarian They secure as much as possible a population traditionally left We are an element of stability I think we are able to prevent Of course, from time to time, just like last April. But it's exceptional. Over the years, we have Since 1978, Lebanon has renewed to maintain the blue helmets even if peacekeepers of this deadly showdown. In the mountains in front of us, you can see the Israeli positions. In the shadow of this Israeli position, Every day, dozens of people before the hundred graves of the Israeli fighter bombardment Next door, the village Kafra, She is called the mother When the Israelis arrived, my son, the martyr Aj Mustapha, There was no resistance yet. The Israeli army has invaded It settled around here, Their patrol was moving forward and started shooting on both They were shooting in bursts, Bursts. If we stayed home, If we were hiding in the basement, we were afraid that the walls All of this was before They attacked us a lot, And thanks to God, their aggression Imagine someone beating you it's better to defend yourself, even Anyway, if I had hidden them at home, So it was better to fight. My son, the martyr Ali, had been to convince her to let him I didn't agree. I had already lost my eldest. I wanted to live peacefully, to see But, his mother let him go without He went through a 45-day training Remember the Israeli raid on Kaukaba? My son had one last night He was supposed to return home But Israel raided that night. I am the mother of two martyrs. I had no other boys. And believe me, if today I could to give birth to another boy, I would send him to fight I swear to God. I swear to God. And you see, all my grandchildren, my daughters' children, I raise them in the same spirit. Who is this gentleman? Answer. Who is it? Here is a letter of what I wanted to say I thank God for all that And I swear by God, that I write these words lucidly, with all determination. And I am volunteering against an Israeli patrol and Sheikh Nasrallahen receives For Hezbollah, dying as a martyr is the noblest In the afterlife, martyrdom Indeed, we experience pain But we beatify him, because At least he went into a world no oppression, no fighting, no Shimon Perez, not Clinton. The beatification of the martyr A unit of male suicides, is ready to go blow herself up in the name of liberating They hope to acquire a privileged Massab, 29, is part of Our religion says: do not consider those who gave But be sure that they are alive It's not madness or nonsense. What would be stupid, would be to let someone take over Were Europeans called imbeciles I volunteered in this martyrs' unit, not having the military means and the occupation of our land, we fight with what is For example, I could very well against the Israeli defense minister, Yitzhak Mordechai, who regularly carries out inspections By blowing myself up against him, and accelerate his retreat. You see, they're very All I have to do is press there for my body to explode and the loads I belted myself with. I wouldn't want to be If I kill 10 of them with me, My parents don't know anything They only know that I am away for varying lengths of time. I don't tell them anything. I would be too afraid that In Baalbek, near the Roman ruins where Nureyev, Bejar and Rostropovich Hezbollah parades every year They commemorate the assassination during a battle against infidels. It is by wishing to follow that the Party of God calls on its own I said to myself, well, I'm going to walk alongside them. With Hezbollah? Yes. Are you part of Hezbollah? We are all with Hezbollah. Year after year, Those who march support Tradition was that on Ashura, men and boys slashed to spill blood Now, bloody demonstrations Hezbollah doesn't want its image to be systematically The Israelis are anxious the image of a terrorist organization They are trying to create problems They say to the French, you want but do you know that Hezbollah Algerians and North Africans They say to Europeans, look, Hezbollah has formed terrorist to put your safety at risk. That's why, when I read that at least that's what that we also have bases in Nigeria, in France, Argentina, Paraguay, And that we train everything that exists so now, really, Hezbollah refuses to be labelled as They show their desire to participate by posing as a political party with their organization chart, their Deputies who had a lot of trouble during the last Of the 12 fundamentalists elected It must be said that the Lebanese electoral fraud included, The Lebanese Prime Minister has never hidden his aversion Deputy Mohamed Berjawien Why this denigration Why this belittling This attitude of the Lebanese during the exchange of bodies in Kfar Tibnit. We didn't see any Lebanese officials receiving the remains of our martyrs who had been freed Mohamed Beydoun, deputy, right-hand This man is one of Hezbollah's All Lebanese distinguish and their political role. Militarily, Hezbollah, like carries out resistance operations Politically, Hezbollah is trying to make Iran's nest And the Lebanese people Lebanon and Syria have Syria works on two axes. Reactivate the peace process The Iranians, for their part, to hinder the peace process, to the Arabs. Moreover, they think that and all that will remain Understandably, is above all the expression of Islamic settlement the region. The ambition of any Islamic movement, is to consider that all the problems whether economic, social, moral, can be resolved through I am not hiding from you that it is our ambition and our credo. But for us, this Islamic State is only Not an end in itself. In this context, there is no question If the fundamentalist movement doesn't they use all the means to expand their influence starting with the Al Manar which is intended to be but actually serving as voice Since there are people who fight we are fighting with a camera. We look for the images We have to accept the sacrifices We have already lost two cameramen, when they were filming camera on Among the important events we filmed, There is the attack by Israeli tanks. We filmed this attack led by our men and the destruction of tanks. These images are very important They prove the reality while the Israelis are trying Manar's audience is subject in entering these occupied regions to see what's going on there are fighting and inflicting losses Shooting such images and disseminate them to that is the raison d'etre Al Manar television is also used to the Islamic Resistance Support a committee that calls on the faithful as does the social affairs branch Our main source of funding The second is donations The third source consists of donations of the Islamic Republic of Iran. All this makes up a mass of very Very, very important donations to medications, to blankets, to household appliances With these revenues, Hezbollah Assistance particularly appreciated where nearly 600,000 people live mostly Shiites who fled their villages, Here, drinking water is rationed, by years of war. Reconstruction, less enthusiastic Hezbollah was not wrong by offering to modest families hospital care, housing assistance, We have created institutions for the sponsorship of families of men who have been injured. Our social action had no political We never thought of the humanitarian aspect Really, we never thought about it. Support is also provided subsidized by Iran, for the orphans of Islamic killed in battle. Kassem lost his father two years ago set by an Israeli patrol. Kassem and his four sisters by the foundation that promises until the end of I am not responsible All I know, is that they live in the morning for school, and They take care of everything, They insure everything, And that has been since They were here for us, Mourning has been easier to bear, even If you ask one of my children, They will answer you, They all lived in that mindset. In my husband's time, they saw young people They saw their father in mesh He would tell them, "I'll make sure that the Israelis don't and kill us while we sleep." When you grow up, You will be in the resistance. What does Hezbollah do? They're fighting Israel. And, what do you want to be Becoming Hezbollah. Why? To fight Israel. Why do you want to fight Israel? Because they are not nice. They're not nice. Because they're not nice. Because they killed dad? Yes. And the vicious cycle carrying an entire generation born in the shadow of tanks, Children who have a choice to bury or live by razing the walls until a global solution