(Bell) Good morning, dear friends. Today is October the 21st, in the year 2003. We are in the Lower Hamlet in our second day Our intention is not to give you ideas. Even ideas of peace. Our intention is to offer you an opportunity to recognize the seeds of peace and joy that are already in yourself. A talk, a Dharma talk is like a cloud, rain. The rain can help the seeds in the soil to sprout and to bring forth flowers and fruit. The rain is not the seed. But the rain can help the seed to sprout and bring forth the flowers. The flowers of understanding, the flowers of joy. That is why it is not my intention It is not your purpose to come here and receive ideas and put it in a notebook. When there is rain, we allow the rain If the rain is enough all the seeds within the soil by the rain. And they have a chance to sprout. So during a talk like this we don't need to do anything. We don't need to try to understand or to try to record In a talk like this to be penetrated by the rain. And suddenly you find that the seeds of understanding, sprout. There is nothing whatever to do. Just sit there and You have to believe that the seed of peace, the seed of joy and are already in you. The seed of the Kingdom of God is in you. It is not outside of you. If you think that God is outside of you and if you are looking you never encounter God. It is like a wave running to search for water. She never encounters water. She has to go home to herself with the strong conviction And then, there is a chance. You are not looking for When the brothers and sisters they did not address these words to someone outside of them. That someone may be the Buddha, No. They are not addressing God And they know that. This chanting is only a kind of rain in order to water the seeds of understanding, of peace within themselves. And when we stand up and bow in this direction it does not mean that the Buddha, God is in this direction at all. When we bow to that we touch the ultimate in us. We touch the good, the beautiful, There is a belief that there something on that direction. If you believe that you are wrong. There is nothing whatsoever Although there is That is only a block of rock. It is not the Buddha. The Buddha is the capacity that is in every cell of our body. So let us not be fooled by the form. The most precious gift we can offer to the person we love is our energy of understanding and love. If we do not have we have nothing to offer or to the world. But how to cultivate You can cultivate understanding To be alone does not mean cut yourself off from society and go to a mountain To live alone means you always are yourself. You do not lose yourself. You sit in a market place You never lose yourself, You are the boss. You are not a victim. When you practice walking mindfully, you are concentrated on your steps and your in-breath and out-breath. Even if you are walking you are still alone. Because mindfulness Every breath, every step nourishes you enriches you and brings you the energy of understanding, of love. Because if you are not yourself, you cannot love, you cannot offer anything. To live alone, to be alone means to come home to yourself and become the master of yourself. Not to allow yourself to be carried away. This is the practice of than can help you so that you can get the nourishment, you can cultivate awareness, understanding and love. Because understanding is If you don't understand, you cannot love. If you cannot understand yourself, you cannot love yourself. If you cannot understand him, you cannot love him. If you cannot understand her, you cannot love her. Understanding is Suppose your partner, you don't understand her. You don't understand anything about her. You don't understand her deepest aspiration. How can you say that you can love her? And how can you understand her? You have to be yourself. When you look at her, you begin to see. To see her suffering, To see her deepest aspiration. If you are not yourself, how can you listen? How can you see deeply like that? When understanding is there, Love is the water that springs from A relationship is meaningful only when each person If you are empty if the other person is empty, you don't have anything to offer Empty of what? Empty of understanding, empty of beauty, empty of truth. That is why we have to nourish us. That is why we have to be ourselves. When we meet each other, It is a pleasure to talk to each other. I know that. But if we don't practice mindfulness, talking is just allow yourself to be carried away by the talking. You don't have much to offer. And the other person Of course, when you have very precious you can share. You can offer. And talking is one of the ways to offer, to express yourself. But if you have only empty ideas, that is not a true gift. You may have opinions and ideas But that's not What the other person needs is your love, your insight. Your insight not as ideas but as a living reality. You embody insight. You embody compassion and joy. That is why a relationship If we know the art of living alone, it means that if we know to cultivate each moment the energy of peace, the energy of compassion, then our relationship Each of us has to be ourselves in order for the relationship This is quite simple. That is why when you have five minutes, when you have ten minutes for yourself, you profit from these 5 or 10 minutes in order to enrich yourself to become more solid, more free, more understanding, more compassionate. Because when we love someone we want to offer him what we have. And what we have is joy, understanding, And then, the offering is the best thing we can make to our beloved one. We should ask ourselves: What can I offer her? What can I offer him? Do I have much to offer? If you want to have something to offer, cultivate it. And you cultivate it by being alone, walking alone, cultivating alone. The practice of mindful breathing, can help you to come home to yourself and begin to get the energy of joy, of peace. Imagine a tree standing out there. Because the tree it continues to get the nutrition from the earth. The water, the minerals, and so on. With that kind of input she can nourish her branches, her leaves, she can make flowers, she can make leaves and so on. And she has so many things If we move the tree around the roots of the tree will have no chance And the roots of the trees that she needs in order to We are like a tree. If you not know to become fully present to have a chance to cultivate to practice looking deeply then we cannot get We don't have much in order to offer In our retreats we always have a time for discussion that we call Dharma discussion. The kind of discussion in which our joy, our experiences. It is very meaningful. There are those of us who don't feel that because the thing we would like to share is not very clear yet. We don't need to speak. We just need to listen, to allow the insight of other people to penetrate in us. Even if we don't say anything, we are profiting And what we profit is not the ideas, but the living experiences that other people in the group have. It is our duty to share. If you have something, you should share to the Sangha. This is mindful talking. This is a real Dharma discussion enriching everyone, everybody. You are encouraged to share when you do have something to share. Each of us is like a tree. Every minute of our daily life we get the nourishment. If we have something we can flower, we can offer the flowers and the fruit. This is our contribution. The gift we can make to the world. Yesterday we talked about how to go home to ourselves in order to have an opportunity to get in touch that are available within us We practice walking We practice getting in touch with in us and around us. This is so important. That is to get a kind of nutriment for our nourishment and the nourishment Walking in the Kingdom of God. Touching the wonders of life. You cannot do that without going home to yourself. Our time together is very precious. Therefore, if you have 5 or 10 minutes, please, enjoy the practice of nourishing yourself going home to the here and the now. Because we want to become for ourselves, for our family, That is what we want. We don't want anything less than that. That is why we should profit from Of course, at home, when we go home, we can do continue. But if we are not solid enough we cannot continue the practice That is why while we should try our best so that the practice becomes a habit. The Sangha means the community. A community where how to be alone. How to enrich herself or himself. How to get the nourishment There are things that but with a Sangha it becomes very easy. Alone we will be lazy. Although we know how to sit, we know how to listen to the bell, we know how to practice mindful walking but we don't do it because no one around us That is why whose members are practicing is a great encouragement, That is why in a Sangha You naturally do it you don't have to make any effort. That is why we have to profit so that our practice becomes a habit. We need the practice When it has become a habit, when we go home we will be able to do it (Bell) (Bell) In our practice, we get in touch You may encounter difficulties. You know that the morning is very beautiful, the hills, the mist, the sunrise is beautiful. You want to get in touch You want to stand there, to sit there and contemplate and allow the beauty of nature, because you know But sometimes an emotion, a feeling comes up and prevents us from enjoying what is enjoyable, what is happening While the other person is capable of allowing himself to enjoy the morning, the glorious sunrise, and allows all the beauty to penetrate into his body and his mind, we are blocked with our worries, our fear, our anger. And the beauty of the sunrise cannot penetrate into us. Some anxiety, some worries, some anger prevents us from getting in touch And we prevent the Kingdom of God from being in touch with us. We prevent ourselves from With the Pure Land of the Buddha. What to do in these circumstances. We believe that we have to that feeling, that emotion, in order to be free again. So that the beautiful sunrise can penetrate us. We consider our fear, our anger our worries as enemies. Without them we are free. We can get in touch But because they are there that is why we cannot get the nourishment The practice offered in Plum Village is that in moments like that we should stick to our mindful breathing. And we should recognize the afflictions that are there. Whether it is a feeling of anger, a feeling of frustration, a feeling of fear. And with that energy of mindfulness generated by mindful breathing we can recognize that feeling. Suppose that is a feeling of worry, anxiety. Breathing in I feel that Breathing out I have the habit to worry even if worrying is not necessary, And every time I know that happiness is not possible. I would like to ban worry away. To remove it. Sometimes they call me Mister Worry, Madame Worry. Because I use to worry. I'm used to worry a lot. And I know that when I worry, I cannot get in touch I cannot be happy. So I get angry at my worry. I don't want it. But worry is part of us. That is why when our worry comes up, we have to know how to handle it. Nicely. Peacefully. Because it is possible to handle You can do it if you have If you want to have practice mindful breathing, practice mindful walking. And you'll have in order to recognize your worry, your fear or your anger. When your baby suffers and cries, you don't want to punish your baby. Because your baby is you. You don't want to hit your baby. You don't want to throw you baby Your fear, your anger, is your baby. Don't imagine that you can Don't try to do violence your worries. The practice is to recognize it. Oh, my baby! I know you are there. I will take good care of you. Continue to practice and with that energy you recognize it, you smile to it. You embrace it very tenderly. This is nonviolence. This is a practice of nonviolence directed to you fear, If you are angry at your anger, you anger will be multiplied To get angry at your anger. This is not very wise. With anger you suffer already a lot. And if you get angry at your anger That is why it is not wise The real practice is to recognize your anger to smile to it as tenderly as you can. Good morning, my dear little anger! I know you are there. I will take good care of you. The baby is not pleasant But you, as a mother, you have to pick it up very tenderly and hold the baby And the tenderness of the mother will begin to penetrate If you continue for a few minutes, the baby will feel better and the baby may stop crying. Your anger is your baby. Your worries, your fear is your baby. You should know You should not try or ban the baby. We have to learn our feelings. Without the basic practice, namely the practice mindful walking, mindful cooking, mindful tea drinking, you have no ways to generate It is that energy of mindfulness that helps you to recognize your pain, your sorrow, and helps you to embrace it tenderly. And after having embraced tenderly for a few minutes you feel a relief. And your baby agrees to be quiet. And now you can enjoy Now you can allow yourself the wonders of life around you This is a very basic practice. We should be able to do it, to master the practice. Sometimes we cannot do it alone because we are just beginners. We have some mindfulness, some concentration. But our mindfulness and concentration to hold our baby, that is huge. A big baby! That is why we need a Sangha. The Sangha is a community. And we can borrow Because the Sangha, whose members are practicing, is generating a collective The collective energy, And if you know how to borrow it, you'll be strong enough And not to be overwhelmed by the suffering. This is very important. That is why in the Buddhist tradition taking refuge in the Sangha. When you throw a rock into a river, no matter how small the rock is it will sink into the bottom of the river. Every rock will sink. But if you have a boat, you can keep You can even keep tons of rock floating. The same is true here. If you are alone, you may sink with your suffering into the river of suffering. But if you have a Sangha, a community of practice, and if you allow the Sangha to embrace your pain and your sorrow, you will float. You will not sink This is very important. When you are in a Sangha like this, you allow the pain, the fear, the sorrow to be recognized You are borrowing in order to recognize, Dear Sangha, please see my pain. Please, help me to embrace the pain, the sorrow And you can survive, Many of us have profited from If you think, you see is crucial in your practice, when you go home a group of people Everyone will profit from the group. That is your boat. You need a boat Sangha building In Plum Village we do nothing except Sangha building. Everything is dedicated Cooking, cleaning, sitting, walking, everything Because the Sangha can be the refuge If the Sangha is solid, then many people can come so that they can their fear, their anger. When you practice well You become the refuge For your family. You can transform your family And other people can come If you are capable of bringing a few families together, you set up a Sangha. And if the practice your group becomes a refuge That is Sangha building. There is no hope without Sangha building. We are in a Sangha like a drop of water in a river. Allow the Sangha to hold us, to transport us. Don't be a drop of oil in the river, not mixing with other drops of water. That way you arrive nowhere. Allow yourself to be Allow your pain, to be recognized, You have to trust the Sangha. Dear Sangha, I suffer. Please, help me Imagine you are a drop of water who likes to go to the ocean. If you go alone, you might be evaporated in just a few days. But if you allow yourself to be you go to the ocean. The Sangha will guide, will help. Sometimes the Sangha And you are always in the stream. You are no longer a drop of oil. You have become the river. And as a river, you don't have to suffer anymore. You suffer only when you are Please, remember. You suffer only when If you have become a river, you don't have to suffer anymore. Allow yourself to be embraced by the Sangha. To be transported by the Sangha. To be carried by the Sangha. Accept your Sangha as yourself. Become the Sangha, become the river. This is a very wonderful practice and does not need a lot of time. You just allow yourself There are those of us who are capable of Because our practice of mindfulness We have the energy Every time the pain, the sorrow comes up we are able to recognize it We are able to embrace And by the walking, by the looking deeply we can understand the block of sorrow. We can transform it. But there are those of us We need a Sangha. When you sit alone, you rely on your energy of mindfulness, alone on your energy Sometimes you may wander, you lose your mindfulness, you begin to think of this or that. But when there is another friend you are two. And the solidity of the other person inspires you. So every time your mind begins to wander you bring it home to you and you continue mindful sitting, to cultivate more solidity, more freedom. It is our solidity and freedom happiness and joy, understanding and love. If you continue to be a victim of the environment, if you continue to be a victim your worries, happiness is not possible. Peace is not possible. And you don't have to him or to her, That is why we have to we have to profit from who knows the practice. Sometimes we feel that we cannot go on anymore, we are going to crack. We are the victims of despair. We are not on our own anymore. We are to give up. And suddenly we remember that we have a friend. And we wish that at this very moment if that friend sits close to you, you will be okay. Because that friend has solidity, and joy. And if that friend in this moment, you will be able to survive. But that friend is not here. She is far away. She is in Tokyo or Los Angeles. And you feel very well, very clearly that if you have a chance and sit close to him, Because alone, you are you are lost. You know that you cannot restore yourself. If you feel like that, if you feel yourself you should try everything to go to him or to her. Abandon everything. Give up everything. Just try to go to him or to her. Because you need a balance, and no one around you here can help you to restore the balance so that you can survive You have to go to him, go to her. And when you arrive and sit close to that person, you feel that you can survive. You think that you can breathe, you can walk, you can drink your tea. You are okay. But you also know that you cannot In a few weeks you have And without her, without that person, you lose the balance again. You rely on someone else in order to maintain that helps you to survive. My advice to you is while you are with her, or him, and feel you can survive, you have to profit. You have to profit from the moment in order to cultivate enough energy so that when you are alone you can survive. So her presence, his presence, is an opportunity. It is like during the summer and autumn the sky is clear, there is sunshine. You know that the winter will be harsh. And you need some wood in order to heat the house. You know that to cut the wood it will no dry. It won't have enough time to dry for you to heat the house. That is why the heat of the sunshine of autumn of summer in order to cut the wood and to keep a pile of wood so that you can bring it home If you spend your time doing nothing, you cannot survive the winter. That is why while you are and feel that you can survive, profit from these moments to cultivate enough of concentration, of freedom, so that when you go home to your place you will be able to survive. A retreat is something like that. It is an opportunity. It is a pleasure But if we don't profit from the retreat in order to master the practice of being oneself, to get the habit of generating the energy of mindfulness then, when we go home, we cannot be ourselves. We cannot help others. This is why the noble silence Because the noble silence To profit from in order to generate and concentration. Generating the energy if that has become a habit then, it will be wonderful. Every time the energy of fear and sorrow and anger comes up, we know what to do. We need only to go home and then the energy is generated. It is possible for us to recognize to embrace them, to make friends with them and to continue. We can help other friends Our mind can be seen The upper layer is called Mind consciousness. And the lower layer is called It is like a house with This is -- Sometimes we consider this the soil of our consciousness. All the seed are buried here. The seed of understanding, the seed of love, the seed of joy, the seed of happiness are always here. The seed of sorrow, the seed of fear, there are all there. When you hear a Dharma talk, the Dharma talk will fall like the rain on the soil of store consciousness. It penetrates into the seed of joy and makes the seed of joy sprout and bring forth flowers here. When you read an article in a magazine that contains violence and fear, the article waters It sprouts and it brings forth the flower of anger, of fear, of discrimination. So it depends of the kind of rain that you have, what kind of seed down here will come up. Down here they are called seeds. And up here they are called In the teachings of Buddhism we speak of 51 categories of seeds. And among them, mindfulness is one. Mindfulness has a seed. If you practice mindful walking, mindful sitting, mindful drinking, mindful eating, then the seed of mindfulness It grows stronger here. And when we need it to come up, it comes up very easily. But if you don't practice, it remains a small seed. Your anger also. When you were a baby, the seed of anger But if your parents do not know if you are exposed that is full of violence and anger, then, the seed of anger When you watch television, you get in touch with the seed of anger and violence Then, they will manifest and occupy So our happiness depends entirely on our seeds. There are people who are very angry now. Ten years ago, They were not violent like that. Because they have allowed to be watered every day, That is why it is very important not to allow the seed of anger There are ways to do that. In a Dharma discussion we can discuss how to prevent the seed of anger Everyone has experiences. In a Dharma discussion how for the seed of mindfulness, the seed of compassion The Sangha is a place where we learn. We put into practice what we learn. If you have a family, your partner, your children You can organize a unit, a practice unit. You know how to help yourself, to avoid watering the seeds of Every day, you organize so that the seed of joy, will be watered many times. This is a problem of organization. You can organize your practice. Your practice may be very natural. It does not look as a practice, but it is a real practice. We have our intelligence. We need to use our intelligence the daily life of our family, so that we can take good care of the seeds in here. The practice is called this word we have invented We water only the good seeds. And you refrain from watering When your child consumes television three hours a day, it may bring a lot of Because the TV programs may contain a lot of anger You allow your child to intoxicate herself. That is not good for her, that is not good for our society. If we allow these items of consumption to water the seed of that would not be for his profit, for own profit and This must be arranged now. You have your insight as from now on, you organize that can protect us, that can protect Because our suffering, our happiness, depends entirely on the seeds Although our children we can sit down with them They are able to understand. In the last few years, every summer we had children And the children show They understand all these things. They are ready to cooperate with us. We have to treat them equally. That helps them to be aware, to be responsible. They know that they have a role to play in the happiness They grow much quicker, much more quickly. The practice of selective watering can bring forth results very quickly. One hour of practice Look at the person you love. She has all kind of seeds in herself. She has her talent, her joy, her suffering, her anger. If you water her anger, You bring the worst out of her. But if you know how to water her joy, her understanding, she will bloom like a flower That is for her to enjoy herself. That is for you to enjoy herself also. Believe me, the practice of selective watering And you can do it. You are just telling the truth. Because that person has And if you recognize that seed you say: Darling, you are wonderful. You can do this, you can do that. Then, you water the seed And she'll be the source of happiness not only for her, for him, That person is your garden. And you are the gardener. You should learn the art In every one of us there are flowers, there is also garbage. If you water the garbage, Garbage is the anger, the fear, the discrimination, The flower is compassion, Up to you, up to the gardener. You are a gardener. You have to take care of your own garden. You may have to master the art of gardening. In fact, you have two gardens. Your own garden here and the person you love. If you don't know how to water, to practice selective watering of your own garden, you would not have enough wisdom in order to help watering So the garden is in yourself. You have to cultivate your garden well and you will help cultivating his garden, her garden. And believe me, a week of practice can make a big difference. You are intelligent enough, to do the work. You have to -- you have to take the situation in hand. You should not allow the situation out of your control. You can do it. Every time you practice investing your mind, you take the situation in your hands. Every time you breathe in Every time you breathe out then you are yourself. You are the boss, you are the master. You are the gardener of your own garden. And we rely on you to do it, to take good care of your garden so that you can help taking care When you have succeeded you become a Sangha, You become a refuge for a third person and the Sangha will grow. There is mutual understanding within you and her, within you and him. But before that becomes a reality, you have to understand yourself. Self-understanding will bring about You understand that you have blocks of You understand that you have and confidence. And understanding that, you practice so that you can water the good seeds and make your garden beautiful. When your garden is beautiful, If your garden is not beautiful, it is very hard to help the other person. If your garden is beautiful, You are compassionate. Your look, your smile are very pleasant. Anything you try to do to help But if you don't have that freshness, that beauty in your garden, no matter how hard you try you cannot help the other person So take good care of your garden. That is not an abstract thing. It is very concrete. You can do it at every moment You can do it here, now with the Sangha. So tomorrow you can continue to do it when you go home to your place. Take good care of your garden take care of the garden of the others. When mutual understanding is there, communication is good, happiness is possible and you two become a refuge for a third person, And that is a process of peace. (Bell) That is a peace process. That is the real road map. The peace process does not come The road map does not come It comes from your own heart. It comes from you, You two, you form a multitude. If there are enough of you who know how to handle the fear, the anger, who know how to calm yourself, then, you can organize a people's peace conference. You don't need your government to do it. Because your government in the past. It has not succeeded. Because they don't know, the peace process. They don't really know They talk about that. They think in terms of politics. They do not know humanity, humaneness. When the warring parties come each side is full of suspicion. Anger, mistrust. And with that in the heart not much can be achieved. Because there is no peace inside in order to really make peace To me, negotiators for peace should have At least they should know to handle the anger, the fear, Peace talks are always that people right in the beginning Making a lot of proposals, making a lot of discussion. But the real peace talk a real peace convention should be organized like a retreat. It means, both warring parties both groups would be given the time to calm themselves, to take care of their emotions, There should be time to cultivate their own garden. There are those of us who know how to help. Those of us who have come who know something about of embracing our fear, our anger. Those of us that can help to prepare the ground for mutual understanding. I just told you about We have to go home to our own garden in order to take good care of it. We should know the art of so that we have enough hope enough joy in us so that we can help the other person to cultivate the same and to go home to ourselves and take care of our own garden. This is step one. When our garden has begun we know that we can begin This is the step two. Your beloved one. There is suffering, there is difficulty, in your beloved one. And now, as you have become you can go to her and help. And she will do exactly like you. She will have an opportunity Those who don't know the practice they always in the very beginning &quot;You have to change. You have to do this, you have to do that in order for me and you to be together.&quot; And the other person is doing the same. No one knows the practice of going home. This is the real peace process. When you can help the other person to do the same and help her garden to be beautiful, mutual understanding becomes possible. Real communication is possible. This is the road map. This is the peace process. I believe very strongly that if there are enough of you who know the art of cultivating our own garden, we can organize a peace conference. The Israeli group can practice together going back to themselves Meanwhile the Palestinian group We need people who know the practice of calming, of embracing, of smiling so that we calm down our emotions, so that communication can be possible. If peace negotiation always fails it is They are in a hurry, But mutual understanding with a lot of suffering and fear It is possible for you to organize somewhere in the Middle East. Even in Plum Village, in Paris you can have and see how you do. You are practicing peace. You are not discussing peace. You are practicing peace, you are establishing real communication A relationship within a couple. Whether you are son or father, you are a couple, whether you are partner and partner, or son and father, or mother and daughter, if you have difficult relationships a difficult relationship and if you want to make peace you have to go to this process. The father has to go home to himself. And if possible, the son The son may be the initiator We know that he has to help himself before he can help his father. So he goes home to his garden and cultivates the flower of And after he succeeded fresh, compassionate. Before that, he cannot -- he cannot help his father. He feels that it is impossible. He can never help But now, since he has transformed himself he becomes pleasant, he becomes joyful, with a lot of compassion, he knows Before that, it looks like there is no hope. No hope to reconcile even if he is your own father. Last year, in a retreat in northern Germany, in the city of Oldenburg, we had six days The first, the second, the third day are for the practice of going home and practicing calming, embracing, The third and fourth day, the fifth day, we learned about peaceful communication. How to use the practice and with compassion. How to use loving speech Because listening with compassion and using kind, loving speech is very important In the beginning people find it very difficult because they have got Father and son could not Mother and daughter could not Impossible for them to because when you listen because the other person But after 3 days, 4 days of practice the seed of compassion was watered by the Dharma talks. Because everyone has the seeds of compassion and understanding. Everyone is capable of recognizing that they are not The other person And we are partly responsible When you realize that, you can look at the other person with the eyes of compassion. Oh, now I know that Not only I suffer, but he, she has suffered a lot also. I used to blame him for my suffering. But I know that I have been for my suffering and I have made him suffer also. So the moment when you get understanding. And with understanding and compassion with compassion. The situation changes. Suddenly you find you can listen to her with compassion. The way you look at him now is different. The way you listen to him now It changes the whole situation. It makes the communication possible. Oh my God! I didn't know that And I have been responsible In the past, I believed that I didn't know that At that moment, when you get understanding, your eyes are different. Your words are different. And communication is possible. On the eve of the fifth day, I gave the instructions as how to reconcile with your beloved one. I told them: You have in order to complete The Dharma talk was given and I told the people in the retreat, 600 people or more, to do the work of reconciliation and compassionate listening in order to reconcile. There was a day of practice. If your beloved one is in the retreat, you can come to her, come to him using the techniques of listening deeply, listening compassionately, using the technique of loving speech. Darling, I know that During many years. I have not been able to help you to suffer less. In fact, I have made the situation worst. I used to blame you for my suffering. But I know now that I'm sorry. Please, give me a chance. I don't want you to suffer. I want you to be happy. Please, tell me. I don't want to repeat the mistakes, the unskillfulness that If you don't help me So please, help me. That kind of talking. Everyone in the retreat Before that, they did not believe that Because before that, the seeds of understanding had been not watered. 4, 5 days of selective watering And they are able to to do that on the fifth day. In the morning of the sixth day, four German gentlemen came to me and reported that last night they had used the cell phones They were able just by using cell phones. It is very remarkable. Because the other person Their fathers, who did not they did not practice at all. Just on side, one person practiced and that can help the one who does not practice. It is a miracle. When you are transformed, when you have understanding you can transform the other person. In fact, that night they were able They were able to open the door of their fathers' hearts. They got the reconciliation. They were very happy. And I knew that there were but they were a little bit too shy Last year also, in a retreat the same thing happened. There were people in the retreat in order to call their husband, On the last day, they came to me after the last tea meditation and reported to me that with their wife or their husband who could not come to the retreat. It is very crucial that we are able to water the seeds Come home to ourselves with the help of the Sangha Then, when you are okay you can come to him, come to her And mutual understanding, Suppose you are not a person, You are a group of Palestinians who so much wants peace. Now, you know the peace process, You know the real And it doesn't come from Washington D.C. What we said yesterday about God? We should not look for God outside. We should not look for God For peace in Washington D.C. We should look for peace The peace process, the road map for peace has to come from ourselves. This is a real peace process. Peace always begins with yourself, We have to be peace on order to help the other side We should not continue of not practicing peace. We have to practice peace. And we encourage the other group Suppose this is the Palestinian group who knows the peace process. They come together. They are in no hurry They are taking their time When their garden is beautiful, they can approach the group of Israelis. Meantime, if the Israeli group they will do the same. If they come together mutual communication becomes very easy. I think that in six months or one year you can organize You can organize it in Paris. You can organize it The world will come and listen to you and see how you do peace. This is a real peace process. Because you know what is the process. Peace always begins with you, And when you listen to the other group with all your compassion you see that their people suffer The adults, the children, When you are able to see them the nectar of compassion And you suffer less. And when you suffer less, Every agreement made will be real, a real peace solution. A text signed by both parties, but if the fear, the anger, the suspicion still remain that is only a piece of paper. It is not peace. But if there is mutual understanding, compassion, then you don't even need signed by both sides. And many of us in the world in your peace conference, people's peace conference, that will show the world, You can come and help Your government will listen to you a real entity of peace. I don't think that we should wait They may continue for a long time. They may not arrive anywhere. We have to take the situation in hand. We have to make peace. We have to organize the peace process with our own practice. (Bell) (Bell) You may spend time alone and write a letter to your partner. To your father or to your son or to your daughter if you do have difficulties Give yourself three hours And use loving speech. During the time of writing that letter, you practice looking deeply into the nature, into the situation of your relationship. Why communication has been difficult? Why happiness was not possible? You can begin like that: My dear son, I know you have suffered a lot during the past many years. I have not been able to help you but I have made the situation worst. It is not my intention But maybe because I tried to impose my ideas on you, make you suffer. I think that you have made -- In the past, I thought that you made me suffer. My suffering is caused by you. But I now realize that I have been responsible As a father, I don't want you to suffer. Please, help me. Please, tell me of my unskillfulness in the past to make you suffer. Because if you suffer, I need your help, my dear son. We should be a happy couple, father and son. Please, help me. Please, tell me what is in your heart. I promise to do my best to refrain from saying things But you need to help me. I need your help. I will not be able to do it alone. Write a letter like that. Spend three hours, even one day I am sure that you will feel much, much better You become another person. That is what we call In the past, every time I suffered I was inclined to punish you, that made you suffer. I thought that that was but I was wrong. I realize now that anything I say or do that makes me suffer also. I'm determined not to do it anymore. But please, help me. I have the confidence that after you have finished that letter, which is a process of peace, a process of transformation, you feel much better. Because peace is in you. Understanding and compassion are in you. And now you become very pleasant, And you can help him or her to transform. A miracle can be obtained in 24 hours. That is the practice of loving speech. It is coupled with the practice of Compassionate listening is very crucial. If you don't have compassion in you, you cannot listen. Because what the other person says may water the seed of And you lose all your compassion. You are no longer able to listen. And to listen is very important. If you know how to listen for one hour, deeply, with compassion, the other person will suffer It is very healing, very transforming the practice of compassionate listening. That is the practice of the great being who has You have that seed in you. When you listen to someone, you tell yourself that listening like this to suffer less. Because so far no one has listened No one has been able Even the therapist. Because the therapist may have a lot of And although she pretends maybe she is listening to herself. If she does not know she does not know how to listen to you. That is why you have to be the therapist. You have to be the Bodhisattva and listen to your beloved one. This is possible. First of all, you have to see that And you have made the situation worst. What you said in the letter is true. You believe in what And you want now And you can look at her with compassion. Oh dear, she has suffered quite a lot, partly of me. And you ask her to tell you what is in her heart. She may not be able In her speech there may be a lot of blaming, But if you are a Bodhisattva, you can still continue You can be a Bodhisattva. The Bodhisattva is in you, You say: I listen like this with only one purpose. That is to help the other person That is why even if his speech bitterness, accusation, I am still able to listen. The energy of compassion protects you. What the other person says cannot water because you are able to to keep compassion alive. Compassion is mindfulness. I listen to him like that to help him to suffer less. If you can maintain this awareness alive, The seeds of irritation and anger in you will not be watered. You can listen for one hour without being affected by You don't want to correct him or her, even if her speech is full of wrong accusations, you feel only compassion. Oh, dear. That person is victim of You don't want to punish, you don't want to criticize, because you have compassion. That is why you can continue to listen. Listening like that for one hour You are the Bodhisattva. Don't look for the Bodhisattva Don't look for God outside of you. During the process of listening, you notice that there are so much wrong perceptions, misunderstanding in her. And yet, you don't get angry. She is accusing you. She is bitter. But you don't get angry. Because you are protected by compassion. I listen to her just because You know that you can help that person to remove You don't need to do it now. If you try to correct you spoil everything. So just listen, and you say: Tomorrow or after tomorrow I'll have plenty of time that can help her With that in mind, you are not in a hurry you are very peaceful, That is peace. Then, a few days later, when you feel you begin to release some information. Darling, it was not like that, You release just Don't try to release The other person will not be able to believe it. it is not good. So after three days, and 5, 6 days later you release helping that person This is a peace process. In a relationship between two people, whether it is partner and partner, son and father, the process is exactly the same. The situation has dragged on But if you are determined to practice, one week is enough. One week or two weeks are enough to improve the quality and to make yourself happy, And when it comes to the situation of the two parties, two warring parties, it is exactly the same kind of process. Your group can begin to write a letter, And the language can be exactly the same. Dear people over there, we know that you have suffered a lot. Dear people over there. They are the Palestinians, they are the Israelis. Dear people over there, we know that during the past many years We thought that we were But now we realize that We have not been able In fact, we have made Which is the truth. It is not our intention Because we have not been very skillful. We don't know the peace process. We have reacted We wanted to punish That is why we have made We don't believe more in punishment. We need your help. We don't want to continue like this. We want really to give you a chance to live peacefully and happily so that we will be able Because your peace, your happiness is crucial for our own If you don't have safety, security, then we will have We recognize that we inter-are. Our peace and safety That is why you should help us and we should help you. Let's come together as brothers and not as opponents. Please, tell us. We listen to you. The Palestinians and Israelis in the last many years they were offered exactly During the first 5, 6 days they don't say anything. They just practice mindful breathing, recognizing the fear the anger, and to calm down. Then, they would sit down and recognize that the other group Now they are able to look They are using deep listening, And it is their turn to tell the other group their frustration. Then, mutual understanding becomes a reality. And the two groups always in order to give a report about their practice. They all make the vow to organize Sanghas so that many people can come You are intelligent people. You have to use your intelligence, your lucidity, to make peace in yourself, with your partner, with your beloved one so that you can become to make peace with the other group. They desperately need you. And you also need them. My suggestion of a is just such suggestion, to illustrate the path of peace. You know that in the world so many people are concerned If you can do anything like that, like a People's Peace Conference you will have a tremendous Not only you educate but you educate the whole world about how to make peace. And many of us will come to observe you making peace. Not in the political way but in the real way of making peace. In your Dharma discussion please, share your experience on this. How you make peace How can you become the refuge and so on. Subtitles by the Amara.org community