He came in fine late like 5 p.m. and told me that I had clear cell ovarian cancer, high grade. And that's when I just straight broke. I honestly my family, I'm one of the rocks in the family. I'm the medical one. I know what's going on. For the most part, I'm the one that's going to support the family. But I broke I completely lost my mind. So I'm 36 years old now and I love activities, physical activities, outdoor activities. I have been a nurse for over 15 years and I've always taken care of people. But my family is very, very important. I love to travel the I'm a nurse and so there a while. It's probably about a couple of years ago I'd had random sharp pains and I didn't kind of. We tried to figure out what they were. We couldn't figure it out. My mom had breast cancer, so it always veered away from hormonal birth controls just for that reason, and also because I just didn't feel right on them. So eventually I ended up going with an IUD, and so I got an IUD placed and then they do a one month follow up ultrasound. And so they did that follow up ultrasound and saw a cyst on there. And so my doctor was like, okay, there's a cyst, it's a decent size look, monitor it and see because I wasn't really having symptoms. And so we followed it up six months later, things were fine. My C 125 was still like normal, but on the higher side. So we followed up. Six months later, everything's fine. And then at my one year mark, she had done another ultrasound and had some concerns that it had changed. And I in hindsight now I'm like, if I had known more of what the ovarian cancer symptoms were, I may have been like, okay, yeah, I have had some bloating or I have had some unusual things as far as that goes, but I was completely unaware of any of the symptoms. So I kind of went in with the fact that I didn't have really any symptoms of anything. I did end up having to meet with the gynecology oncologist for surgery, and he was more concerned. And I think I still was very oblivious to the fact I'm like, This is a cyst. There's no way that this is cancer. He's telling me all about all the treat like, you know, the surgery, the hysterectomy, all this and that. And I'm like, we're having a cyst removed. I'm like, going back to work in three days. It's going to be laparoscopic. So I honestly I feel like I went in pretty optimistic, probably about 4 minutes after I got to pre-op when they did a urine pregnancy test and it came out positive that I was like, That's not good. So they had to do some blood work and they kind of were trying to convince me that I was pregnant. And I knew very well that there was zero chance of being pregnant. So I knew that that's not a good sign. You don't have a positive pregnancy test. You know, a tumor can cause a positive like kind of pregnancy test, but, you know, just nothing. Not being pregnant can do that. So that's when I kind of started having like, no, this is not good. I had to go into it positive. I knew that I had to go into with my head on straight. So I had told my doctor, you know, we're going to go in, we're going to remove the right ovary, we're going to do the test, and then we'll make a plan from there. I was not willing to sign consent to have a hysterectomy. I was like, I wanted kids. Still, I hadn't had kids. So I was very much like trying to control what I could control of it. And he was very much like trying to lay out the facts of things. So we went and like he finally said, okay, we'll do surgery because he was so concerned about this pregnancy test. So I ended up getting admitted. And then we, my family, were still all there. We went to the room. I kind of broke down a little bit and was like, you know, it's cancer. It's cancer, it's cancer. And so no one really knew because I told my doctor he wasn't allowed to tell my family until he told me because I was the medical one. And they don't understand. And so then my doctor came in the next morning and he said, you know, we have to kind of make a decision. We have to wait and see what kind of head is cancer we need to see. He's like, if it comes back as this can of ovarian cancer, we can just do chemo and stay the course. If it comes back as this, then we have to go back for more surgery. So we just had a waiting game at that point. July 4th is when I found out it was the cancer and then at that point they'd done a lot of work with my bladder in that I couldn't pee. I had to get a pull, a catheter put in. My electrolytes were all off. I was like a disaster on July 4th. So I was very much not myself. So my experience I had I was in the hospital still from my first surgery. We decided that it was best. I was already took a head about prep. A lot of times that if I was not in the hospital, I would have had to do about prep again. So since I'd already gone through that, we kept me in the hospital. So I, having my medical background I think made things a little bit kind of wishy washy at times where I knew what to expect. But then I also didn't want to expect some things, so I knew that I wanted to get out of the hospital. So I like, again, I'm a firm believer that you need to have communication with your team. You need to advocate for yourself. I was like, What's going to get me out of the hospital faster? What's going to have a faster recovery? I had talked to my doctor about that and we talked about doing a nerve block versus an epidural at surgery time because I was like an epidural keeps me in the hospital longer and there will be less. And then I also begged my doctor not to staple me shaft. So there's, you know, the surgery was basically going and you're making a giant incision from kind of right below the ribcage all the way down to the pubic bone and opening up and taking out what needs to be taken out and doing biopsies and checking things and all this and that. So it's kind of you end up with an incision like this long and you sometimes I would kind of forget that I had this major surgery because it is major. Everything was kind of taken out and put back together and this and that. And and they looked at things. And I do feel that, you know, it's one of those things that you don't kind of see that once you had surgery, you see like the actual incision. You don't see what they've done on the inside. My surgery was like 7 hours long. I think. So I ended up waking up in the recovery room with the no nerve block, not any pain medication on board. They thought I was too sedated, so they didn't do it. And I was in excruciating pain from not having that. Still do not regret the fact that I didn't do a epidural because once the nerves worked, it was really, really good. I as a pediatric surgery nurse, I knew that number one was I had to get up the next day. I got back out of the O.R., probably at, I don't know, probably ten, 11:00 at night was when I got back. So I was also very firmly telling them before surgery that I didn't want to remember going into the operating room. I remembered going into the operating room, my first surgery, and I remember it was just cold and sterile and it was alone and I was scared. So I begged the anesthesiologist to give me some more like kind of medicine to keep me kind of in la la land before surgery. Again, a little bit of my control, just wanting to kind of not be there at that moment. I feel like a lot of it was just trying to escape those moments. It was probably at least three months until I could do like a sit up like it was. I kept getting mad that I would do sit ups and if I could do them the next day, I was in excruciating pain. And I, like, you know, everyone would be like, you did have a major surgery. You did have it. I had to be reminded all the time because I was so mad that everything else was starting to work and that was not working. So I kind of kept just I played the whole game that I tell my patients this, like, you know, if it hurts, don't do it. If it's sore, it's kind of okay. So I kind of went with like, okay, like I just can't do so. And I would test every like once a week. I would try to do it again and then I would be like, not that good. So I kind of just played around with that. So I probably would say at about three months I was like fully surgically healed, but probably at about like six weeks. I was feeling like much more my normal self. So I, I lost all of my hair, besides my hair on my head. I lost probably about 25% of my hair. So it was still very nerve wracking all through chemo that I would like wash my hair and then let there be hair. And I'm like, my God. I'm like, Is it going to be too much? My hair did decently thin, so with the cold caps I had to only I think everything was like all natural I needed to use. I could only wash my hair in ice cold water so I would have to, like, take a regular shower, then get out of the shower, hang my head over the sink, wash it with ice, cold water, no blow dryer, no heat, no nothing. So it was kind of at some point I'm like, this is worse than anything than keeping. I just stayed in my head at this point. But my chemo, we did. My doctor decided to do Dustin's chemo for ovarian cancer, where it's Carboplatin and Taxol. So I did carboplatin. It did six cycles and but since it was weekly, I did carboplatin every three weeks and then Taxol every week. So I would get started. I do the both of them, and then the next two weeks I would just do Taxol. And then the week after those two were done, I would start up with the carboplatin again. My carboplatin and Taxol weeks were miserable. It was like my double chemo week. I was there much, much longer. It was the week that I would get the sickest, the first chemo I kind of was very surprised and like, This is easy, this isn't that bad. And I in hindsight, it's funny to me because I feel that that's where everybody kind of is. Like, you've never gotten chemo. Your body's kind of like a little bit adjusting. And then like, it's like round four. I'm like, my God, I basically might be dying. Like, what is this? Like, it's much worse. And you kind of still try to play the game. You're like, I'm not that sick. I'm not that sick. And you kind of it gets harder. Obviously we started adding on new, so I would get my double chemo and then the next week I would get like just the Taxol and then the following week I would get my tax on and then the new budget. So I my biggest side effect was, I mean, the number one was like the tired, the fatigue was number one. And then when I had the double chemo, it was like the nausea, like I would go from normally, like I didn't really have an appetite with the carboplatin and Taxol. I was super noxious. A There is only a couple of times that I actually got sick. I was very much I'm not a person that's a Puga. And so I kind of was like, we want to do everything not to. So I was I pretty much eight blueberries and goldfish my entire chemo because it was the only thing that I liked in a tolerated I kept my zofran on hand. I would make sure that I took that the kind of around the clock as soon as I started feeling that and I was very much aware, I just wouldn't eat. I kind of made a plan with myself that if I could. I tried. Every time we had a different round, I tried a new thing, which I every single time it failed. And I nothing new was going to work. I think it was just chemo. We're like the fatigue. Yes, I worked. Yes, I worked out. I only didn't work out. I'm trying to think of what days I didn't work out. Like I didn't work out on the night before chemo and chemo days. And then basically four or five days a week, I worked out and I worked 30 hours a week. It was because, a, because I had to work. I needed the money. I needed to financially keep myself afloat in working out with something that was mine. So I was not giving that up. It was more that like I am a high energy person. So I kind of feel that like even like some of my friends would be like, okay, well, you're just like normal energy now. So, like, it's it's hard for me to be like, I was here with my energy and then now here, and then came all the way down here, like I'm still functioning, but like, no one really cared because I was still doing these things. And I'm like, You have no idea the energy. It's taking me to do those things. Now I'm at the point where I see my doctors once every 28 days. My CT scans are spaced out. Initially they were like every eight weeks and I think they're like every 12 weeks now. And they're going to spaced out a little bit as well until we finished the trial, The clinical trial that I'm in is a there's like stages of clinical trials. There's some trial because rather meds are brand new that they've never tried them on anybody. The, you know, the PARP inhibitors, they've tried it. They just haven't tried it with certain girls. The I.V. infusion is stuff that they've tried with different kinds of cancers or different kinds of autoimmune diseases. So they knew the side effects of these medications. They knew what these medications would do to kind of how people would tolerate them. So that made me much more comfortable with being like, okay, let's just do it. So these side effects of the oral medication, they must. Then over time, we're like, in the beginning it was a bunch of nausea. I was just getting back from not having nine year so that I was like, my gosh, I'm like, Now I'm taking the Zofran again and all that stuff. But it's like nausea is one decreased appetite. And then like, you know, the GI upset is a big one where you just like a sour stomach kind of thing. And fatigue is another big one where I feel that every single time I quit my doctor, I'm like, I'm tired, I'm tired, I'm tired. They had told me that someone else was on the same trial and they, like she slept for like 20 hours a day and they had to decrease her growth. And so they literally don't care, cause I'm still going to work and I'm going to the gym. I'm like, You have no idea. I'm so tired. But it's not even like a tired and it's so nice. It's better than others. It's more of a tired. Like I just don't want to do anything. Like I want to sit there and, like, stare at the wall and I'm totally fine doing that. So it does get very frustrating for me where I'm like, okay, I'm not making progress here. Why am I not? And like, you know, some days I feel better. So it is kind of one of those things that I'm like trying to balance out where just it's everyone's like, it's the new normal, you know, people are like, you know, you'll feel better after you're coming off of it. It's more in like, you know, hot flashes, which hot flashes are part of post-menopausal, like surgical menopause. So it's kind of like where it's a new lifestyle. But I also firmly don't want to say it's like my new normal because I feel it. Though there are certain things that are like triggers to people that are not to other people. Like to me, like telling me this is my new normal. I don't want this is not my new normal because this isn't going to stay. I'm going to hopefully, you know, as you know, as the years go on, things will get even better as far as like, you know, I'm hopefully not as tired. I pick back up my energy a little bit. So this is kind of like the season we're in. So going on this medication was hopes of one of two things. So some girls will go on this medication. So there it is. The PARP inhibitors are approved for some like some ovarian cancer and sometimes it will help kind of stop the recurrence from getting worse for like. So it's kind of like where they like are like if you're know, but it's a disease, they want to keep you. They're so the goal is to keep me there and to hopefully like, you know, with immunotherapy in the combination is that like, you know, either a we've gained ourselves two years with this trial before we would have a recurrence, or it's one of those things that we just hopefully don't kind of have to come back. So it kind of is where like, you know, the goal was that, you know, you're going to be on this trial for, you know, there's a couple different options. You're either going to be on it till the end, you're going to be on it until I decide, like I can tell you tomorrow what I want to do it anymore. And it's no questions asked. I'm done. If I wasn't tolerating it and my doctor felt that it was not safe anymore for me, he would pull me out of it. Or if I had a recurrence, then they would have to probably. It depends on the recurrence. If it was a notable recurrence, they would probably pull me from the study and say like, you know, obviously it's not working kind of situation. I when I got diagnosed, I was like, I'm going to need help. I'm going to need help. I couldn't find anybody that was my age and, you know, that went through it and, you know, didn't have kids yet. And everybody was like, I've had kids or I'm here with this or I'm here with that. And it was very hard for me to find someone that I connected with. And I felt that I found some people that were older and they were just angry about it and they're like, yeah, I was so mad. I'm never the only time that time of year comes up again. I'm very angry and I kind of had a really hard time finding that. I can say that I have not processed and dealt with it. I don't think that I ever will. I think that it's I think maybe you at some point my ideal goal in life at this point was that I would love her like what I ended up marrying. Like, whether it's, you know, me and my boyfriend have stayed together. My I would rather my significant other have a biological child so I goal would be a surrogate. Obviously my goal was my own child. So that's not going to happen. But so it is one of the things that like in my head I have that that's my plan. My plan is my husband would get a surrogate. You know, if that doesn't happen, we would kind of work on adoption. I do want to be a mom. And I think that, you know, I kind of tried to keep pushing myself to like, you know, in the beginning, like, no, this was this is a topic that would not be talked about without me sobbing my eyes out. I would not be able to have this conversation, not that I'm better with it, but I'm more like, you know, I can't control that. Like, I can't control like, you know, especially with like, my boyfriend. I had to have the conversation early on that like, you know, I can't have kids and to tell another he's, you know, younger than me to tell him you can't have kids with me. You know, this isn't going to work was a very big step. You know, it's it's that's something that like, you know, I ended basically like once I kind of started getting to know him, I told him, I said, we need to have a talk. I need to tell you some things. And we did. We sat down, we talked about it, explained it to him. I kind of given out. I said, You can you can stop dating me. I don't have a choice in the matter here. This is my this is my reality. You have a choice. And thankfully, he did not leave me for that. And it is something that, you know, I would say ten years from now, you know, I'm doing very well. Everything's still stable. You know, still no evidence of disease. And we had a surrogate and we have a baby. It's I feel that it's one of those things that at that time maybe I'll have a different perspective on things where it's like, okay, it doesn't matter how you got that baby, how that baby became yours and that you're his mother. Her mother, it's, you know, that's what the ultimate goal is. It's kind of like I feel that, you know, some of the things that I kind of went forward with, with certain things is I kind of take the cancer out of that part of it, which is hard, too, because I want to live forever as long as I can. So that's where like the cancer kind of comes back and it's like, well, what if you come here, comes back and then you get really sick? As far as fertility, I'm like, there's people that they try in fertility treatments for years on end and never get pregnant. So that's kind of what I approach with my boyfriend as well, where I'm like, You just kind of know that I'm not fertile from the get go. Like, we don't have to do thousands of dollars of IVF treatments to try to have a baby. We just can't. So it kind of that helped me a little bit to be like, okay, I don't have a choice. This is my reality.