Hello and welcome back to Jarvis Johnson! GOLD, - [disembodied voice] Gooooooold! Um. It is. It is free. But, if you're watching this, Or are you. (laughs) Cue the conspiracy music, cause today, um, I wanted to talk about cause there are a lot of them. I, as you know, love conspiracies. I specifically love the because I feel like a lot saying something that is and putting like, spooky and saying it in a fun tone. And if you do that, But I watched this.. person, and uh... it made me laugh. I'll say it. It made me laugh. Why don't we just jump into this. The queenofeverything on TikTok. Their bio says &quot;it's called because you have to be That's actually kind of based. (laughs) America does have quite a few issues, so, you know. This is not where I but it is uh, it is a wake up sheeple type uh, type of bio, and I can get behind it. This is the first TikTok of that I watched, and I think it's a masterpiece. - Does anyone want to tell me came up with this picture When the first picture available until the 60s. - (laughs hysterically) I like genuinely thought this because I love, I love the look of like, &quot;Mmmm. Can someone tell me how they made a picture?&quot; If this is parody, this is the best parody &quot;Does anyone want to tell me how.. Magellan like, navigated stuff, when a picture of the world wasn't even available till the 60s?&quot; I love that she just describes &quot;a picture of the world&quot;. Riddle me this. How did they get that when a camera wasn't even Huh? Hm? I think that's something NASA doesn't want us to know about. - Through none other than who? NASA, right? Almost 40 years later. How could Universal Studios know this is what the world - (laughs) and just the- the tonal &quot;Ummm. Through NASA, right?&quot; Yes girl, you are on to nothing. Cook... somewhere else. - Does anyone want to guess? Hmmm. I'll tell you! The reason lying about and making it into a ball Because you can cut and keep 'em hidden. Watch this demonstration and you tell me if this - Okay. So. There's a lot happening here. (laughs) We are lying about the and making it into a ball. Who's lying? You know who. The big man upstairs. The government upstairs. And then she says, the reason that they're lying and making the earth You can hide any part Cause you can't see What's behind the ball? Exactly. That's what they don't - Watch this demonstratIon if this doesn't make - [voiceover] The reason of the earth and making when you turn it into a ball, you can cut off any and keep it hidden. - (bursts out laughing) Did he say exactly in the exact same order Like word for word, - You can cut off any and keep 'em hidden. - [voiceover] you can cut and keep it hidden. - (laughs) Before we move on, that that ti- the caption here says &quot;the globe was created and the moon landing was I feel like they're combining I have never seen like, the Hollywood elite all like rolled into And you know why that Because you can hide behind the ball. Sorry, I don't fucking know - [voiceover] For example, we will cut out a piece, and we will take this flat piece and wrap it around a ball. Now this is where I tell you You can only go to destinations - Uh, alright, but what about What about the fact that you Also, it's easier to hide something Because when you cropped you were already hiding and we didn't know that You didn't have to put it - [voiceover] And when it really is a plausible - Is it?? (laughs) Is it a plausible reason to lie? We're hiding all of the Like... Africa... and... Atlantis. - I'm assuming most of you but if you don't, drop it in the comments if - What? (laughs) Wait, what about Antarctica? &quot;I'm assuming you guys I know a few things I know it's cold. I know they send scientists I know Mr. Beast went there didn't come out, Again, I don't know if it's parody, if I find out that it's parody at some point in this video, uh, I don't think it will change a thing. I love that they're so steeped that they keep referencing like we know at all Also, the acting performance, the acting performance like, just. Her like, manner of speech, it's all just like, artistry to me. I think it's, we're watching the LeBron James &quot;So before the 1960s we &quot;Maps are man made.&quot; Yeah. So is your TikTok. (laughs) The videos that you're The CGI from Hollywood. All of the pictures are manmade. Does she think the is a photograph? Of Earth from space? &quot;Same reason there were &quot;Explain&quot; (laughs) John, I think you're on to something. There were globs in the 30s, I need (chuckles) I need further info. I want to further illustrate that I call the uh, where she references something as if we.. know what she's Cause I am so- so far wavelength that she's on, I'm behind the globe. I'm- I'm hidden from understanding But before we get into that, we have a word from today's Odoo is a suite of business apps that covers all of your For example, maybe you want Websites are very important showing off your work, With Odoo, it takes only and it's completely free. Odoo has unlimited hosting but what's even better is that for one year. Odoo is much more than just it can help you run For example, it's easy to and it's fully customizable You can change the visuals you can customize invoice settings invoices when needed, and you can even track your UPS, USPS, FedEx, and La Poste And everything is integrated so you can better understand With Odoo's customer resource you can keep track of all of Let Odoo do it all for you. Unleash your growth by clicking the link in and getting started with Odoo. Thanks to Odoo for now back to the conspiracies. - There's a reason they they know about the - Okay, hold on. (laughs) You say, &quot;there's a reason to know about the bottom - People say like, well we about the ocean, we've never been to the bottom, blah blah blah. You guys... Where does WiFi come from. - (laughing) What??? Where does WiFi come from??? If we've never been to the then explain the Internet. (laughs hysterically) What they don't tell you is that WiFi stands for Imagine. I understand that like, most of the ocean is unexplored and that's like a big source We have been to the bottom It's funny cause she poses and then gives explanations So it's awesome. (laughs) &quot;I heard the transatlantic cables data lines from Tartaria.&quot; (laughing) &quot;You would be correct! Oh my god I love this Um, what is Tartaria? &quot;blanket term used in Western for a vast part of Asia Remember everyone, fiber optic cable, 700 years old. Maps. 60 years old. Created by NASA. &quot;Bottom of the ocean. Cables connect every continent.&quot; WiFi doesn't reach that far. (laughs) Do you know what WiFi is? I don't know if you know this, most modern WiFi technology, you need WiFi nodes everywhere for it to- to spread. On a single network, mind you. And this is implying that like, WiFi is spread throughout everywhere, uh, and they're all different networks that's just not how it works, but it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter how it works. Some days, I cannot get WiFi But sure. Also, WiFi doesn't really go I would know, there's concrete in my house and it fucking But sure, 700 feet below that's where the WiFi What bothers me about fundamentally don't know Over and over it happens you don't understand how and so you create this fanciful solution and explanation that is also not based in reality. Like wired and wireless We have different technology for communicating because of how difficult pass waves through the water. Electromagnetic spectrum, not waves like water waves. But that's neither here nor there, because they're talking but then they're mixing up Nothing matters I guess. We are now two conspiracies deep and everything is already intertwined and contradicting so I can't wait to see I don't understand how one all of these things. Okay, so these are ones that- these are- these are TikToks we're about to get into the un- uncharted territory for moi. - I'm a conspiracy theorist. Of course I'm gonna tell you when we hang out. - Oh okay okay. So this- This is the &quot;I'm a blank. Usually people do it by- and then switching different people with this trend, and I love how she's just By herself. (chuckles) Because she can't go outside, cause that's where Do do do do, do do do do. of course I'm gonna ask you, &quot;You're really gonna eat that?&quot; - You could just be judgmental. (chuckles) You could also What am I about to eat that you- Am I about to put like, the- that's how they control you, they can- they control that caesar salad, Jarvis. Don't you dare, dude. Spinach leaves are how they- how NASA controls the earth and how it cuts continents That's flat globe continenet - I'm a conspiracy theories, of course I'm gonna tell you - Cause, I mean like, if you're watching the you know, 24 hour news cycle, lots of humdrum drama not productive, you know. That's fine. - I'm a conspiracy theorist, of course I'm gonna make barefoot. - Huh? (laughs) Wait, why? I'm gonna catch something. (chuckles) I'm for sure I don't want glass in my feet. - Of course I'm gonna tell you everything manmade.. is fake! - What does that mean? Everything manmade is fake? You- your TikTok (laughs) You are man. Sort of in the.. species sense. Everything manmade is fake is a- is a wild take. - I'm a conspiracy theorist, of course I'm gonna point out all the symbolism in - You could also just be annoying. You could also just not want The thing about these videos is that they're always gonna but they're not gonna tell and what is safe to do. Because the second you or safe, or normal, someone else is gonna claim because there's no- it's just a ouroboros, it's just a- a race to the bottom. Because actually, everything's If- if your brain is working that way. - If dinosaurs actually existed, wouldn't their bones be everywhere? - They are. They are, yeah, they are. - So why is it that the average Joe has never dug them up. - The average Joe has, one. Two, like, dinosaurs weren't, like, - An another thing... bones can completely decay - Oh she did use Google. Okay, so she trusts Google Right, right. Technically the skeletons we find it's like rock and stuff, right. Like it turns into rock? 'When an animal is such as sand or silt, Its bones are protected from As its body decomposes and only the hard parts like are left behind.&quot; I also did a google. And then- and this is from, okay my source is the American so to complete this though, &quot;Over millions of years, water in the nearby rocks and minerals in the water Minerals, from the water that replace the bones with minerals. &quot;When the minerals have completely what's left is a solid rock copy And they say this channel But again, I'm not an expert. I was just reading from like, the American Museum of but it's so funny that like, Someone poses a question that they don't understand, and instead of seeking the they use the knowledge which is usually limited, Like I am not an expert and uh, and then they fill in the blanks with instead of consulting, uh, people who've done the science, who've like dedicated that's where we get into, And then also, on top of that, being really snarky and like It's Dunning-Kruger in action, yeah. - And if you're watching this video I would love to hear it. I honestly believe they put these and made us believe it - Because of this, and then So, I have spent the past, trying to find the origin of this because I knew it had to be What I found was that there was on the website Worth1000. This was in 2002, by the way, so this is a 21 year old &quot;You are to create an Your job is to show a picture that looks so real, had it not people might have done As always, quality is a must. You have 48 hours for this contest, so make your submission count.&quot; This photo was one of the And it was so good that people are still using it for- as evidence of conspiracies. But to be honest, and I was on stream with poeple using like the wayback machine to find the like, original it just speaks to you know, nowadays we see so much and we're like, on top of it but this is just good It's long lost its context of on the internet 22 years ago, and people just take it as fact. And that is all to say that you cause that's how they getcha. - It's easy to connect the dots - It's easy to connect the dots when you don't... see all of the dots. When you only know two dots, then you're gonna draw a line and those are your like, understanding of how things And there are so many other that you are avoiding in order to draw the line So that's why you need to open them even- even wider, open them into some like, And then maybe you'll see Or just do like, a Google search. - The Simpsons don't predict the future. - So we've all seen the viral predicted the future in various ways. And, I mean, a lot of those things a lot of them are social commentary, a lot of them are, you know, taking, um, a joke to its and because those things are sometimes those things end up And, there's a lot of episodes So, of course there's um, with the Simpsons and happen in the future. Especially when you're Queenofeverything says Queenofeverything says The Simpsons do not and I'm curious to see - I am so sick of hearing that - Can I make a completely Why did she record the in a completely different and still use that clip? When she could have in this setting, with this I have a conspiracy about that. In what universe do you need Or, is this a stitch from like, a previous video she made Maybe it's that. Maybe it's that. That would make the Occam's Razor, alright. - They don't predict it, - What?? (laughs) Wait. So The Simpsons doesn't The Simpsons already The Simpsons was produced and they're just showing They're time travelers. You heard it here first. It is no the simplest explanation, like what I described earlier, is it's just people making things that exist in the real world and taking them to the thousands and thousands and and a handful of those things happened to predict events It's that they're time travelers. (laughs) From one civilization to and we are the next. (sighs) - (laughs) She's always- (sighs dramatically) I'm so tired of explaining we're the next civilization! - They're not predictions! They are telling you what Wake up. - (laughs) Wait! Wake up. Wake up. I don't know if she's seen, They are not the- the writers of The Simpsons are not like the movers I guess when they mention &quot;They&quot; they're talking about the people - Question. You guys, where do you - Okay wait wait wait, let me answer that, Where do I watch The Simpsons. On Hulu, or maybe on or maybe I personally don't but I've heard it's gotten pretty Uh, those are my answers, - On a tell a vision. - Tell.. a... vision. Oh my god. And The Simpsons is the only Cause it's the only show There's no other shows! There's no shows before And that's why the word that tells us that it's telling the future. I see. Oh and th- it's over. (cackles) I- I... I thought that was What I'll give her is Um, that is a bit of a bar, so if she threw that I would have to say that's fire, I would have to annotate I'd have to give credit But... she can't just say something (sighs) Thanks everybody for joining me on what a wild Appreciate you. And stay woke.