Welcome. Thank you. This is thrilling. First of all, for me, it's We're in the offices of Private Eye, a legendary satirical magazine. Don't-- I see the look on your face. The look on Ian Hislop's face is one - "Please, sir, do not praise me for I shall not accept your praise," You, my friend, it's Such a pleasure to meet you. And comedian, satirist, cultural commentator, prize fighter, - middleweight champion of the world. - Didn't realize that was in there. Brain surgeon. First violinist. What? Ian? Thank you for-- - Yeah, that's better. I prefer the jokes. We are in the Private Eye offices in London. And I apologize to you because I flew in last night. Do you take melatonin to sleep ever? No. What do you take? Usually legal action. Works a treat. Speaking of legal action, sir, you're the key. So, I know that Rupert Murdoch to ruin your country, and he's ruining ours - at present. How do we legally stop him? And I mean, legally. - Yeah. I don't think you can. I mean, there are Monopoly laws, which They didn't really work here. We tried a bit of that. There was cross-party support. It didn't really work under In the end, he decided - so he went and met Murdoch and he ended up in a compromise. I think it's up to the rest of us I mean, Murdoch is trying to set up. At the moment, he has a new television which is meant to be like Fox News. Really? Yeah, which is called, and it stars, and again, "stars" is the word, Piers Morgan. No, I'm not familiar with that name. No and nor with the use of the word "star." So, he's the lead on this. But I mean, happily, for all of us And no one's watching. Now, this is-- But, as a little bit of background, so there was a scandal in 2010/2011, where-- and it's hard to even fathom sort of the depths of But ultimately and they hacked into - who had died. And the revelation that came out of the closeness of Rupert Murdoch - to the Tories. The same thing is happening again with-- are you familiar Yeah. Yeah I mean this is-- this is a continuation of the Trump which is essentially things you say aren't true and things that are I mean, it is an attempt to stop people -And when we watch from here, Fox News or mainstream news with those people on it, it's difficult to believe. And often in Britain, we feel - So you got Trump, - then we got Boris Johnson. You know, it's a diminished version, Wow. And we get worried that we will end up if you're found out. Literally where you can come on, and Boris Johnson has a, he was removed from office, But they got Capone on taxes. I mean, he was removed from office you know, for having-- he wasn't actually, he-- - everyone must remember. He was removed from office after he appointed a man who was a known and he appointed him to And then he sent out his ministers to say, - But actually he did. His name was Pincher and he called You see, that's knowledge. He did know about him So everybody in his cabinet, but apart from the lunatics, "I can't work with you. You don't tell the truth. You have no moral compass, Yeah, that's never been, but can I tell you what a pleasure it is that British I mean "pincher by name, pincher At least it's a joke. At least it's-- You have to respect the witticisms of the corruption. Yeah, I mean, trouble is about Boris Johnson, we lost our sense of humor a while back. It's no longer the the wild hair, and the ziplining, - that doesn't, that doesn't thrill in the way that it used to? No, it's him coming up and saying, "Look, I told you, you could visit when she's dying. But me, I was pissed as a party. It's great. You do what I say, but me, - don't apply to me." That's right. We've got the same thing when they were doing the lockdowns, - the sort of famous one is, Gavin Newsom going to French Laundry, - in the middle of everything. And it gets people really angry. - And people are still angry here. If you-- we've got a scandal The then health secretary was, he literally was caught on a CCTV camera in his office He was married, obviously. - You know, tradition in this country So he was snogging his assistant He was caught on CCTV. This is when we were meant to be observing Six foot. Like, he wasn't six foot away. He had his tongue down her throat. - and he'd appointed this woman. I hate to interrupt you, - He appointed this woman, because he'd fancied her and she'd always thought But when he became in the government, and then got off with her. And the rest of us are thinking, we're wondering whether we can go outside or whether we have to say or whether the police will move us on. And you're just Yes, now-- It does get you quite annoyed. - But to be fair, in the early days of COVID, that was how they tested. - Before they could swab, you had to use your tongue. Yeah, it was an oral test. And there had-- So they would just look, if you can Yeah. - Through the tongue. I'm sure he was-- Yeah, none of-- It's all on the up and up. Everyone was learning as they went along. I want to ask you about this fought this for your adult life, public piety and private perversity and corruption I think the most difficult thing as someone who got into the the idea was always the fable of Yeah. And you always thought, to be that child who sees things that the grown ups are pretending Yeah. And you always imagine in the calling out, - "My God, the veil has been lifted." And what you never thought is that you would call it out So then everyone would just The emperor has no clothes - "Yeah, but yeah, it's okay." Half the crowd's saying - "He's got clothes on." Or, "He's got clothes on - You know, it's now-- - "I mean, if you knew what I knew, "if you'd sat in your bedroom and read this blog, which isn't true, who sits in his bedroom you would know But he hasn't. He really hasn't got clothes on. So that's the worst small boy, you, me, childish sense of humor I'll point him out." The emperor, in the fable, realizes - and he doesn't have any clothes on Nowadays, the Emperor's Trump, He says, And these machines that you're seeing through - I mean, it's just, it is mad. And the only thing that seems to work, Being as tenacious as that side. - If you say it often enough, At a certain, point for us, Boris Johnson, he'd always been a liar, and at that point, - "No, we've had enough of you now." I think there was a moment when there was elements that began to think Now, I don't know if someone else Right. But you can tell me that. But at least there is-- - I've got some bad news. How many years behind us are you? - About five. Well, about 200, really. So you've got about and then it all is I want to, you know, - Trump is such an outsized figure. But, the groundwork for Trump is really been laid in our country - And it is that the right wing very explicitly decided, after Nixon was taken down who ran Fox News for a long They explicitly stated, "We need to control the narrative, so that this, what happened in Nixon could never happen again And they built parallel structures in institutions like universities, and think tanks, almost to shift to this other track, a facade that they could But you don't have that here. No, they're attempts to set it up, We do have the very right I mean, more so, and they've become less representative, Right. But more representative of this rump of the Right. But we do have the BBC, I mean, all the governments hate the BBC. The BBC is a sort of national broadcaster. It's independent So all governments say which they aren't, Right. And criticism, as you know, No, it's a terrible thing. And, but this lot, and again, you know, they have done it have said "we must get rid of the BBC, because it's not allowing you real news." Right. And by real, they mean fake, obviously. Right. "They're not allowing us And it was certainly true during lockdown. And there are a number of, you know, that there's a sort of group which used to be on the fringe That's right. And then, now, in the middle of the party and the Daily Mail have taken up a very extreme position. - Which is new for us. So the controlling of the sensible And they're just indications that, which is another attempt to be and they've employed most of the people So you've got Jacob Rees-Mogg and Nadine Dorries, So you're beginning and that revolving door where they go and then get a pretty nice pay day Yeah. And then they go live on television Right. And you're thinking, "No, I do remember - "We're very right wing--" - and we're going to show it to you." - And that's still not going to do it. The difficulty sometimes - or the mainstream media, as they call it, don't do themselves any favors by also falling prey to sensationalism What happened in the United States was the media finally met an entity as narcissistic as they are, And so they found in him And so their behavior during really was one of we are your foe, and we're going to behave in that manner." And they lost some perspective which gives fuel to those - conspiracy theories. - Yeah, I mean-- is a little bit of a window opening. Yeah. I mean, and that is And I think Trump's gift was - was criticizing the general public, - was criticizing ordinary Americans. And in this country, "well, you would think that and you haven't thought about it I mean, that won't do. We know that. You don't defeat populist arguments by telling people they're stupid. And we had this, particularly over Brexit, which is Britain leaving the EU, and now opinion polls have come around to our point It was an outbreak of sort of Trumpian nationalism of little England isolationism of the type that, you know, is pretty current throughout the world at the moment. And we thought we were above that and we found we weren't. It came in Britain in just the same way as it hit elsewhere. And this was sort of people thinking, you don't care about us, you don't care about working class. You're extremely elite and the mainstream media is in league with you. Now, I've made a number of documentaries about fake news. And what interests me is the first person to use the phrase - That's not so. No! And he, in one of his propaganda sheets, said "It's very important that you don't read the mainstream media You must read the truth by the ramblings of his boss and his associated work. And you do have to watch this. This is a very, very well-established technique of fascists, is to tell you, don't read this stuff, read our stuff. It's such a complicated mix because this move to populism, which is so now taking hold in and you see it now in -- in France and Italy. -- in France and Italy and all these other places. In some ways it's hard not to connect it to the actions of the United States and the destabilizing, first of all, of globalization and corporations you know, Britain and the United States And it's sort of a colonialism lite where we trying to establish supply lines Yeah. And the destabilization of the Middle East and sort of driving that refugee migration and all that. And have we in our desire to spread democracy in light I don't know if you know this, Yeah. Yeah. No, no, I did read that somewhere. Yeah. I mean, you know, and we remain desirous to believe that, but we're aware of its foreign policy faults But there is I think, you know, the United States may well want to beat itself up but Europe can equally do the same. There was a failure in ten, twenty years of globalization and internationalism, of failing to consider the worst off sections of your own population. So everything look great. This is good. We all believe in the ideas, ever greater union. All our problems need to be solved collectively. No one's going to solve, you know, global warming through nationalism. It isn't going to happen, you know, small of the nation. - But it's in the pursuit of cheap T-shirts and -- All of this, but also in pursuit of a sort of an attempt to get some sort of control over the little bits of your life left. So in Britain, the entire Brexit movement was &quot;let's get back control.&quot; A nostalgia almost. - Whatever that means. I mean, it was a desire to control. Make Britain Great Again. Yeah. I mean, again, we didn't go that far because we can't really face that sort of overstatement. We leave that to America. - The humble nature of your country is what saves it. It's humble in its desire to be, We're very proud of our humbleness. But -- yes, I accept there is a responsibility for this outbreak of populism. But when it arrives - to merely go with it and not to resist it seems to me a double failing. - So for the elites, I would just [unintelligible] &quot;for us, it's terrible.&quot; &quot;We should have, we should have done this earlier.&quot; Well, you've got to do it now. Are you seeing it now, as the results of it are not the blossoming of the what they remembered to be the time of greatness? Is that what has taken some of the steam out of it? What's taken the steam out of Brexit is Executed badly. No. And it's not an idea you can execute well. It's very simple. Right. And Rishi Sunak, hasn't he now fixed it? I was under the impression that the new Prime Minister and by the way, the idea to just rotate them every three months Yeah. As long as during the three months where they're in charge, Now we've tied up the total free market lunatic. - That didn't go so well. I thought that was my favorite thing ever was when Liz Truss came in and said, "I believe inflation is terrible, so we're going to go with austerity and we're going to cut taxes for the rich." I thought, well, - It's going to go -- "This will be fine." I mean, and it was a case of literally You haven't had the states. - So I think we might be ahead of you here. We had someone who literally did student politics and got into power, sacked everyone. She sacked the civil servants at the Treasury who normally the adults who say, &quot;you really can't do this, this will be terrible.&quot; - The guardrails were gone. And she did it and this is and then she said "I was defeated by the left wing economic establishment." Now I don't know if you've met any left - We don't have any in this country. The financial markets, the people she loved, the people that the Conservative Party worshipped, said, "You're mad." "We're going to bankrupt the country." And literally the Treasurer ended up saying "We can't borrow any money because no one will lend it to us." I don't know if anyone's ever said this to you - But isn't that what Russian oligarchs are for? And when your country won't have money to lend, won't they come in and say, "How about we do this?" "We'll just buy up Portobello Road." Yeah. "And that should give you enough - No. It's just even the oligarchs weren't very shrewd. You do have a problem with government in that if people think you're run by lunatics, they won't lend you any money. - Right. Anyway. Who knows what happens to interest rates. Yeah, well, anyway, I mean, she was replaced. I mean, removed within, you know. We have a newspaper here called The Daily Star, and they said, "Will the lettuce last longer than Liz Truss?" which was a very, very good joke and the lettuce was fine. - She was out. Yeah. The lettuce is Prime Minister now. Anyway so we got an adult who immediately reversed everything that she'd done. And then the market stabilized and then we started back where we were. But minus 30 billion quid which is quite a lot of money. Then they've even said I think we were looking at the IMF, said that the economy in Britain will contract or perform worse than Russia even this year. Yeah. And so have you thought about invading anybody? Have you thought about -- Is there anything you know, anybody who you've got your eye on? Cornwall? No, I, we're short of options. We really are. That's the end of it. I wonder if, you know, you've spent your whole life, you know, looking at the difference between what these public figures say and what's going on in the back room. Yeah. And now we're starting to see from this Dominion lawsuit in the United States And it is explicitly exactly what you thought it was. And the way that you probably found during the News of the World. Yeah. And also, I mean, recently we are having a very a cache of WhatsApp group messages exchanged during government has been made public. - Oh, really? The health secretary and the then prime minister during lockdown and Private Eye -- About what they were doing? Yeah. Literally their WhatsApp group during why they were taking certain measures, there's -- Yeah I mean there's literally a WhatsApp group this story about the Prime Minister that he's putting out, Literally, they're saying it's got some holes in it. And you're thinking that means he's lying, which is what we said all along. Right. But Private Eye, every week And I've been looking at it recently thinking we didn't go far enough. Right. You know, we just literally didn't push the jokes because they're worse than you think. Boris Johnson, well, as you know, his chief scientific adviser is trying to explain to him the difference between a percentage and a probability. Oh dear Lord. This is during a COVID outbreak and he doesn't get it. I mean, you know, he read classics, you know. He wanted to talk Homer. He didn't really want to talk about the chances -- But basic maths is good. I think with your leader. It can be useful. It can be useful. At certain times, that it is as explicitly corrupt as what you thought it was, Do we have -- are there any, is there any accountability? - I think what's so lacking in, certainly in American life -- Is the sense that when there is that corruption that's so explicit that there is some measure of accountability Yeah. Which is what's, which has been so difficult to get a handle on. Yeah. Well I think it's still better here. I mean we do, we had a public inquiry. We've got another one coming up. The Prime Minister was censored, he was removed. We got another standards committee coming up. There's still some mechanisms. I mean, the appalling corruption over the contracts of PPE equipment, which I don't know if that was equally big in America, We got, we're really good at glossing over corruption stories It's the you know, the dog from 'Up'. It's a squirrel and somebody moves to the next distraction. But America always seems to us to have so many lawyers. You just think, what are they doing? We are a -- Surely they should all be suing at each other furious. We are a lawyer based economy. And with the Dominion scandal. I mean, is that is that a defamation? - Correct. - So that's why this stuff's coming out. - It's the only reason why it's coming out. And it's the only reason why. And they were so comfortable with the idea that none of their private communications would ever come out, which is why it's so explicit to the point of saying these people are crazy with their election, the stolen election narrative in the ways that they think it's stolen. They're crazy. But if we say that, we'll lose our audience. It's a fascinating look at at just sort of like, we call it the snake sucking its own dick And it's, they create this rabid through AM talk radio, which is just populism and nativism drilled at the earliest age, a news network that's reinforcing that, that's selecting stories that only reinforce their fear of the other or, you know, black or trans or anything that might be considered different. They rev them up to that point Yeah. - And if you present anything and they were aware of that. And they felt that they couldn't The Frankenstein that they created, they could no longer say like "fire is actually not that bad." Yeah. Yeah. "You'll be Okay." But is there not a point where and this is what we despair when it doesn't happen here is when does shame kick in? If you're a national broadcasting figure and you have, you'd like your audience, And this is exposed at what point do you go home and think "I should resign. I should go." Shame is the shamelessness is and this is something and I'm curious what you think about. It's why I think so many on the Right are aligning themselves with Russia over Ukraine, because nobody can look at those two countries and say there, you know, one is, you know, a shining beacon of democracy fighting against autocracy. But I think that Putin represents to them in some ways, this Western civilization that they would like to also protect. It's not very democratic, it's anti-gay, it's mostly singular in terms of its ethnicity. And so they see that actually as political alignment, that the Right in America and maybe even the Right in Britain don't actually view Putin as a foe, but as an ally ideologically. Yeah, but this is real echo chamber nonsense, isn't it, really? I mean, any any basic look at Russian history would suggest that this isn't true. But don't you -- What I'm saying is shame won't kick in because they've got a larger ideal that they're pursuing that they they will do anything by any means necessary to get back to that sort of more authoritarian ideal of what the country was. But it wasn't. And the authoritarian it was in Russia because, - of authoritarianism. But it isn't for them a natural ally. It is, you know, as we know, after the wall came down, Right. It's dropped the ideology from the communist days and kept the repression. So Putin is essentially Stalin, who, you know, he admires and reveres. - That's right. And whether you think Stalin believed even 1% of it You know, you can read the history books, but essentially Putin doesn't believe any of this stuff and he does it anyway. And, you know, the latest thing is Putin's just been rumbled, companies that represent the - the woman, the gymnast who he has had the children with. You know, so there is nothing there is nothing admirable. There's nothing ideological. There's no crusade. I mean, I imagine that, you know, the perhaps they should have a look at the Russian Orthodox Church and see whether they're natural allies. Are they? - None of this makes sense. But if you look at the alliances and it's these conferences of conservatives and it's very political. And Trump just spoke at it and all that. They held their last conference in Hungary, and Orban is held up as a figure of "this is where democracy should be going." And he's it's and he's just one degree of difficulty removed from a Putin type figure. - But this is where the -- "And we don't have shame because we don't care how we get it done, we're going to get it done." - Yeah, I think that's very generous. - They're all aligned. - But all of them, I think, are cynical and without any ideology and without any morals. - Yes. I'm still a little boy saying "The reason you are saying this phrase, in order to defend democracy, - Now, that seems to be You know what we used to call, nonsense. But have they flipped that here? Because what they're doing now in America is the real tyranny is woke. Woke is the tyranny. In fact, if you listen to Putin's speeches. - Yeah, no he speaks up on it. - Yeah. "No, no, no diversity is tyranny, democracy --" They've taken to saying in America, "You know, we're not a democracy, we're actually a constitutional republic." And you want to say, which I don't know if you read it, lays out a representative democracy. - Yeah, yeah, no. - Has that -- Oh, Jesus. Has that, that sort of explicit kind of repudiation of democracy - or to use diversity as the real tyranny has that taken on here? Because we're not in a position Right. And also, we had a good public -- Five years. Oh, give it. But we did have a good public shaming over our sort of middle class in our professional classes, taking vast amounts of Russian money, lawyers, bankers, whatever. And Britain became for about ten years. There's a very, very good book called "The Butler of the World." We essentially went round the rest of the world "Any services we can offer you, sir, we do very good libel actions." "We do a marvelous --" We're starting golf tournaments for the Saudi, I don't know what we're doing. I mean, and this it's been a terrible time. And the Chinese again, is now reporting back. If you happen to mention, you know -- Every Tik Tok dance we do gives another piece of information. But, you know, Britain had literally said, That's a good idea. That's a really good idea. Put them in charge of the nuclear material at the heart of the reactor. I mean, we took some unbelievably naive decisions as a country because we were sucking up to anybody who had any money. And that was the Russians that was the Chinese, come in London in particular, come in with an enormous washing machine shove your money in. - and will toss it out. which was your, you know, the single market But nobody resented the money from autocracies. No and they said that the EU was a tyranny because it involved. That's the flip that's been happening with everything. It involved small amounts of cooperation and anybody who looks at the world and doesn't spend their time fighting culture wars on, you know, in their bedroom, on their laptop, would think these are quite big problems. And most of them have to be solved by compromise, negotiation, coordinated effort. I mean, none of this is rocket science. They're not going to be solved by saying, "The big problem about climate change is it's woke." - But that is, it is exactly -- It is sadly, it is. In right now, you would think that pronouns have taken over and are bombing Ukraine. Yeah. Any of this stuff, any of this cultural stuff, I would say is an attempted diversion. - It's cynicism. I mean, there's so many problems, right, that the idea that conservative party is saying, "We will win the election." It's like saying, "We will we will devote ourselves as politicians to things that aren't politics. We're going to join in some other matter." Do you think ultimately they actually care - No, I don't think they care at all. - That's the sense I get. by czarist days full of non-diverse people. Correct. And say in a place like Chechnya, it didn't go so well for them being non-diverse. So the idea that Russia is somehow this sort of. - Defender of Western civilization and values. It isn't and Putin was pre-Trump. and Putin literally appointed a man who was a sort of theatrical impresario to say to him, "How do I present what isn't true as true?" Right. - He's the first in -- yeah. And what's so interesting to me is the explicit nature of that kind of propaganda in an authoritarian regime. Yeah. Is revealed in the emails of the Dominion lawsuit because what you see Rupert Murdoch says in the emails to the head of Fox News, "We must do whatever we can to help right wing Republican control of the Senate." Now, this is explicit. - Yeah. this has nothing to do with a point of view. It has nothing to do with a perhaps a slightly different worldview and everything to do with an organization that has been built explicitly as a propaganda arm for political movement. Yeah. And you think if you want to be in politics, go into politics. Doing it behind the scenes is just corrupt. That exactly right. You know, if you want to test yourself, stand, say your a party. The idea that you behind the scenes influence what is happening without at any point being tested just through the power of money, you know -- And does shame ever, is that a family that can be shamed is that is he a man now, And I'm under no illusion - Because, you know, power will find a way to excersie it self. He's been very canny about it in a lot of continents, including ours, over the years. So it's not entirely accidental. - It is Murdoch. I mean, he is an evil genius. In terms of appealing to the worst. Is his, will his heirs carry on the work of their or will there be in any way when he passes, And I think definitely within the next 50 years that will happne. You're such an optimist. 50 to 60. I'm giving it a window. I think I have him marrying another model around 2045. He's got a lot of wives left. He's got a lot of wives left in him. He's barely started. And Succession needs another couple of series. What do you think they'll ever be a reckoning where they say, "You know, I actually think, oh, we're destroying the very thing --" - Right. You know, part of me would love to be there saying, "I told you so," but another part of me, which is mildly human, as opposed to just the satirist. Just pure satire. You just love the comedy of it. That's what you're going for. I mean, with the Murdoch empire, I mean, what is funny about it is the boys are obviously useless and he won't give it to the girl for because he's Murdoch. It's a girl. - How she's going to handle it. - So with any luck -- She will be Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. She will find the golden ticket Yes, and again, I mean, Rebekah Brooks, - Oh, I love. Oh, it says, "Which costume withdrawn from shops?" I mean, that's not funny. It's not funny at all? No. How dare you, sir? At long last, have you no decency? No, it was the first day of her trial. Obviously, there was a suggestion that this this cover was taken into the court, and the barrister said, this is contempt of court. Private Eye is is trying to influence this action. - You know, Private Eye -- you are the real tyranny sir. How dare you? Yeah, but fortunately a very, very wise judge who got very cross and said, but no, - Now has has -- The libel laws here are much more difficult than they are in the United States. - And people sue you... constantly. Well we don't have what you have. You have to prove, - malice. Yeah. Here it's taken as it's read obviously. Here they just have to prove you were being mean. - Sir. And again, we finally woken up the oligarch Spent a good ten years. I mean, can you believe that the head of a Vogner group, the group of mercenaries who recruit convicts and go in. He was suing journalists for suggesting that I don't know mercenaries operating in the middle of a war aren't very nice. Anyway, we've had a lot of trouble with those sorts of defimations But again, I think, you know, I am more of an optimist and I feel we're we're waking up a bit here in the proper sense of wake, as to what this looks like. Right. - And starting to to maybe turn a corner. I mean, certainly trying to trying to - We don't have to go the same way. I mean, there was a headline our ex-prime minister, Boris Johnson has just -- there's an interim report and the interim report makes absolutely clear He went on television and said, "I've been vindicated." - Classic, classic move. But one of the newspapers just said he's gone full Trump. And I thought, that's right. And if he's gone full Trump then that may be the end of him. So I was feeling, I was feeling it was possible. It was possible that we don't have to entirely follow your model. You're welcome? I think it's absolutely your optimism is well-taken. I love the work that you do and you've been doing for so long. And you're right. You can never stop trying to expose that the emperor has no clothes. Because when you do then, it's just, we've given up. Then we've just. - Yeah. "It's over." You know, I'm always reminded of in the United States in the 1920s, I don't know if you know this, but we've had some racial issues. No missed that. Yeah, it started -- I don't want to get into it, but the group, the Ku Klux Klan in the 1920s got really powerful and big and what, what took them down or what at least shrunk them was not necessarily a reckoning with racist ideology It was an expose on the peculiarities of their initiations and how silly they were. Yeah. And the exposure of that took away all of their mystique and ultimately is what led to them. And it's what I love so much about the work that you do. Well, I think this is true of everyone and the the best satirists, even in the worst countries, you know the Russian ones, what they they try and make Putin not merely scary but ridiculous. Yes. Because that is the thing I mean, we had -- they came into this office there was during the the Balkans war, there was two very, very brilliant young Croatians. And they set up a satirical magazine during the war. And they came in and I said to them, I said, "Look, I think you guys are really, really brave." And they looked at me Am I funny?" And I said, "Yeah, you're funny." And that's how to do it, I think. Well then, I can give you both compliments. I can, I can say both. Ian Hislop - No, thank you. Real pleasure.