Our universe began in a state of ultimate And it will "end" by expanding forever It's incredible that we could figure this - big questions remain open. Like, what happened before the big bang? What, if anything, happens after our universe? I'm about to give you the most outrageous Conformal Cyclic Cosmology is a story of the mathematical physicist Sir Roger Penrose. It's goes like this: the infinitely far to to an unthinkably large size, and every radiation .... that infinite stretch of space the infinitesimal and instantaneous big bang one in an endless chain. We know this is an outrageous proposal because And as with all outrageous proposals it's But if there's a faint chance that it's know about it. OK, so, conformal cyclic cosmology, CCC. Here, conformal is for the "conformal scaling" into a tiny new big bang. A conformal transformation is just some mathematical which preserves all of the angles in that An example would be if you had a sheet of the rubber evenly in all directions - the but the angles at their intersections would This is perhaps the simplest conformal transformation by the same scaling factor. We would say that our universe has conformal don't change if you change the size smoothly. But other things sure do change. It makes a big difference whether every atom or a billion light years apart. But let me try to give you a sense of a situation A conformal scaling of spacetime means scaling For example, consider a universe that's the span of a single second. Light has time to travel across it once. Scale it up by around 30 quintillion times light years across and lasts a billion years. Again, light crosses it once in that time. Let's say these universes contain no matter They both contain the same number of light although obviously they're packed much closely Over the life of both universes, those rays between them stay the same, and the rays pass Now these clearly aren't the same thing. Light takes 30 quintillion times longer to But who's to say that? Remember, the universes contain only light And there's the key point: light does not For those photons, the beginning of their universes are equivalent. So there's a crude notion of how a tiny late universe. It was pretty loose compared to the formal More "street" cyclic cosmology. But let's get a bit more rigorous - we'll To really compare the sizes of two chunks rulers and clocks. Surely, then, the big universe will have more We'll simplify things by gridding up an of space on the x-axis and one dimension of light travels at a 45 degree path - the graph second in distance, or a billion years and we're talking about. Either way, light travels a 45 degree path. This is a spacetime diagram. Let's take two instantaneous events in this The separation between them can space and time you pass on your journey. Now in Einstein's universe it's not quite Lines representing constant distance or simultaneous If I draw the line of constant time for all I get these nested curves - hyperbolas. They show how time will tick for any constant-velocity By the way, our episode on the geometry of The best way to define the separation between of something taking the most direct path between that point in space at the right instant in This is the so-called spacetime interval, passes on the clock of the traveler - or the It's the number of these hyperbolic intervals So it turns out that we grid up the universe But what if the universe has no clocks? That would be the case of a universe that Light follows these tracks in between the that mark even a single tick of a clock. For light, or any light-speed particle, the Both space and time lose meaning for a photon. As Roger Penrose puts it: in order for time, must be able to build a clock. A clock must see the spacetime grid - and And in order to do that, the clock must have So if you have even a single electron in the the difference between the one light-second But with only light or other light-speed radiation that can tell them apart. They're identical under the conformal transformation So how does this apply to our universe? Well, it may be that in the extreme far future Eventually all stars will die and their remnants Hawking radiation, and particles of matter In the case of the proton that's speculative, a universe of photons, electrons and positrons, quantum particles of gravity. The photons and gravitons are massless - you But the others do have mass, so presumably tell that it's gigantic. Penrose speculates that mass itself may not decay to leave massless electrons, etc. The standard model of particle physics predicts But it's not absurd to imagine their mass The masses of the elementary particles are - they come from the interactions of those field in the case of the electron. I'll come back to why we might expect the over time. So that's the late universe. Filled with only timeless radiation, it would be considered sizeless. But what about the early universe? Surely it was full of particles. Well yeah, but those particles were effectively Two ways to think about this: A particle's and rest mass energy. Kinetic energies were so high at the big bang - all particles behaved like light-speed particles. And that's precisely true for things like from interactions with the Higgs field. But that only works below a certain temperature the Higgs field could not grant mass. There's a previous episode, obviously. By the way, a change in the nature of the - could eliminate elementary particle masses In the first tiny fraction of a second of effectively or actually massless particles. Hence the concept of time is as meaningless But does that really mean we can equate the For the black-tie formal answer we'd need of the beginning and end of time. But we'll just do it semi-formally without Maybe cocktail cyclic cosmology? One of the other things Roger Penrose is famous of mathematically transforming our grid of into the one map, while at the same time preserving The edges of this map represent "conformal are compressed onto an edge. That's for one dimension of space and one For the full 4-D spacetime the edge becomes distance and time are compressed or "conformally Similarly, the infinitesimal or "zero-sized" a finite space. This was actually a discovery by one of Penrose' Penrose to follow this idea in the first place. So you stitch these rescaled "conformal endless chain of universes. Penrose calls each universe in the chain an By the way, one important aspect of all of to be stitched together by this sort of conformal constant. That means it needs dark energy. Which our universe has, so no problem, but Penrose also says that CCC naturally gives Only radiation - light and other massless boundary from one aeon into the next. Because radiation can pass between universes, explanation for the extreme smoothness that This was actually Penrose's motivation in of the early universe. In particular, to explain its extremely low If entropy can only rise over time, per the second law the start? There is a standard explanation for the smoothness period of extreme exponential expansion that of a second. But Penrose insists that this does not explain Paul Tod's conformal transformation of the that the smallness of the entropy at the Big field at the time. That then inspired this daisy-chaining of In CCC, all of the energy - and, importantly, over infinite time between aeons. Inflation isn't needed because the inflationary forever of the previous universe, where exponential For the daisy-chain-verse to give you low the entropy slate between aeons. To do that, black holes must swallow entropy This is another issue with the CCC model - most be destroyed. But Penrose isn't so sure. OK, so how do you test an idea like this? Wait infinite time and see if you find yourself Well actually, Penrose has proposed a test - and in fact conducted it and claimed convincing evidence. If radiation can travel between universes, not completely smooth that could lead to features Penroses proposes that the collisions of super may leave rings on the sky in the next. And in a paper with Vahe Gurzadyan he claims Others have questioned the statistical methods they say there are no statistically significant Penrose and Gurzadyan have one more somewhat They wonder if civilizations might be able It turns out that, as well as photons, gravitational If a super-duper-ridiculously advanced civilization holes, they could potentially send information So far no evidence of that. But wouldn't it be cool if we found a message Like, hey guys, try not to mess up your aeon, fun in this infinite chain of conformally Before we get to comments, I just want to us on Patreon. Every little contribution is incredibly helpful. Now we normally list some of the Patreons supporters in the credits and the description, but we've just added a new perk. All patreon supporters will have their names suppermassive black holes at the end of time into the next Aeon. As a special huge thank you to Caed Aldwych we're inscribing your name on the Cosmic to continue your glory and to seriously confuse In our recent episode we looked at the possibility TLDR: it would be very very difficult for them to survive, and definitely the current virus didn't come from space ... but it's not totally ruled Let's see what you had to say. Drakenkorin27, who is a bona fide virologist, viruses from space have ever infected earth life. I had pointed out that alien viruses would life. Drakenkorin27 points out that the DNA of all life that evolved on earth uses the same code for instructing the molecular machinery to translate the DNA. These codes are made up of specific combinations of three DNA based pairs like ATG Which everyone knows this is the beginning of a gene sequence. There's no reason to believe that alien Alien viruses would have no way to deliver take me to your leader. MC's creates notes that if the RNA world first &quot;life&quot; to appear on Earth. Right - and that's really what scientists cells. They mean that some virus-like entity - an functions - may have been in operation before than having sort of de-evolved from cells Devin Smith asks what protocols exist for they be discovered on a mission - say, to So those protocols do exist - and basically The outer space treaty demands all space samples Samples from somewhere like Mars that has a biosafe level 4 facility with additional yet. And if it was actually alien life? Biosafe infinity seems prudent. Not that it matters, we know one of the critters astronauts and, like, controlling their mind. Aurora Stark realizes we can have an asteroid single apocalypse, and asks that we stop giving Well sorry Aurora, but if 2020 watches spacetime I wonder, is it possible to be devoured by and frozen by the heat death of the universe