It's March and female Tawny owl Bonnie, is But deciding which nest to raise Let me take you back to Tawny owls Bonnie and Ozzy search all whole winter. They are prospecting every possible nest, to find The managed to narrow it down to two. The Successfully raising two chicks, Sage and Bramble. So Bonnie clearly likes it here. And the second is Ash Hollow, which But this is where resident kestrel And they seem to want to nest here again this year. As night falls Ozzy chases Apollo away. But he seems unsettled by all the calling and doesn't return again. The kestrels stake their claim. Ash Tree becomes their only option. It's only a short distance from our pond It's the perfect place to hunt, not so successful this time. As the weeks pass I'm starting And courtship is ramping Just listen to those ocarina They're spending more time at Ash Tree and It's Ozzy's job to bring Bonnie food, he can provide for her and their future chicks. At the start of March, Bonnie She scrapes and settles in, spending her first full day in here. And over the next few days, she starts and regularly scraping. Making Her brood patch is ready, this is a featherless Meanwhile Ozzy's busy hunting for rodents and making sure Bonnie's well fed. Ozzy announces his presence and she is quick to respond. She heads out for the night. She has a good feed and when she returns she tidies up the nest. And then starts contracting, she's laying an egg. And there it is that's amazing. Tawny owls lay their eggs two to three days apart. And right on time two days later, she Tawny owls are known for sitting tight Until night, once Ozzy delivers food. Bonnie leaves too, to stretch her wings, and to eat this rat outside of the nest. So she's clearly not fully incubating, sometimes Which makes me think she's going to lay more. My hunch is right, a couple of days Her time away from the eggs is minimal, so she started incubating. Two days later amazingly, she's laid a fourth egg. This is a large clutch size for tawny's around Bonnie will sit tightly on these Keeping the embryos inside the eggs warm I can't wait to see their first moments. And four is such a great number of tawny owl eggs. This could be twice as many young to I really hope this tiny pair can And it's going to be a It's the middle of March and For the next 32 days she barely leaves the Her Partner Ozzy provides her with food. Soon he is delivering more rats, mice So Bonnie stores this Surplus in the nest. This is known as a food cache, perhaps The following day Bonnie stands Which develops into a large crack. And soon she pulls the shell away. When she leaves she reveals her first owlet. His eyes are closed and it can barely hold its own Later that day Bonnie stands I can see it's still wet so it When she leaves I get a great and there's the third one pipping its way out. Three hours later she removes the eggshell There must be three chicks under her Ozzy arrives with a rat. When he delivers it, he realizes the chicks It's a tender moment, but he's sent out to hunt. And Bonnie feeds the chicks Clearly spurred on by his newly hatched owlets. Ozzy makes several food deliveries, With four potential owlets to feed, she's going two days after the third hour hatched, Bonnie Bonnie hasn't had this many chicks before, for So I'm conscious there's a lot of mouths Morning arrives and I get the first Not long after, I noticed some jackdaws is known as a murder and that's for a reason. are looking for somewhere to nest. They are known to They investigate the entrance, and when they return the onslaught begins. These sticks could injure them and put in They can also prevent Bonnie from brooding properly and Thankfully the jackdaws soon leave, Bonnie's not pleased with the mess they've made, but it doesn't stop her attending After a difficult day, Bonnie The four owlets huddle together for warmth. But the pond isn't far from the nest and Bonnie doesn't leave them for long. When the day breaks the jackdaws are back. This is a worrying sign, the And Bonnie tucks the chicks beneath her for safety. The jackdaws return every few minutes. Bonnie's looking stressed. Now the owlets are bigger, Bonnie guards And the jackdaws leave. She looks relieved she's got enough The owl chicks are now a week old and they've But their eyes are still shut. Later that night Ozzy enters the nest without food. It looks like he has come to see the owlets, I think the food cache has run out. Ozzy returns with a large rat. But surprisingly he disappears Bonnie needs this food to feed the Thankfully she returns with the rat. I'm surprised you had to do this, he Bonnie feeds the hungry chick straight away. With all four owlets growing Bonnie's brooding it's more like crowd surfing. Now their pin feathers have come through And within a week their eyes are open. They're standing up and moving around. Ozzy delivers some prey. And one of the chicks manages to swallow But because the owlets are so big, I'm Bonnie starts to hunt now too, but even this is not So I give this large brood a helping hand, Which they seem to be thankful for. This large brood is taking its toll on She's done an amazing job getting I'm hoping she'll have enough energy when they'll be taking their first flights These four tawny owlets are nearly a month old, they're developing well under the expert The chicks have become more active It wont be long before they're and as fledgling day approaches, it's So it's ringing day for the tiny over three and a half weeks old, I've checked on my cameras and Bonnie's One by one I collect each chick and Right we've got a bag full this time, we've a local wildlife rescue centre, she's a trained Yeah so that's the smallest one, I Jean fits the chick with a lightweight Right should we get this one weighed, yep. The a national database. So it's 410 minus the Another smaller one here, this one might be, this So Jeans a licensed ringer and these are got individual numbers on them. So future, so if they found, uh, injured or Let's get it weighed It's a 410 so that's another one at All right let's move on to the bigger So the rings come on a plastic tube with The g-rings fit malards, tawny owls, barn owl, they fit buzzard you say, buzzard then yeah. Right are you ready, yep. Jeans an experienced ringer and ensures the always worry that you're going to crush the that doesn't happen. We never like to leave So we tend to flatten it just very, very All right let's give this one a weigh, there we the bag. So that's real heavy weight that one, That's heavier than some full grown barn owls isn't it, yeah Amazing. All right we're ready for another one. Three down and one This one feels a good weight as well. Maybe the Weigh in time right, 460 again so that's uh 420 it's real weight without the bag. This is really interesting about the almost like elbows where they sit start standing. It takes a while for these So that's got them all successfully ringed. The chicks look unfazed by the ringing and It's not long before mother owl Bonnie is back. All safe and sound. These four tawny owl chicks are around a month old. They've just had ID Rings fitted and They're looking healthy, but now they're Especially when parent Bonnie returns with food. So the eldest starts climbing and eventually But only briefly Bonnie senses danger at the nearby pond. These are known as And are regularly seen hunting in the area. Bonnie gets defensive posturing But the buzzard doesn't seem interested. Later that day the eldest and most when jackdaws fly by, the owlet retreats finding safety with its siblings. Now the dangers passed the And spends the next seven hours there. Before plucking up the courage and taking the leap. Tawny owls are notoriously leaving the nest when they're still covered in Normally tawny owlets don't return once they've left And when Bonnie leaves its sibling joins it. before having a less successful One of the young tawny owls fledged at Ashwood last It's amazing how camouflage this owlet sticking out. And it's facing head on into the wind. So it's really quite windy up here today blown it upside down on the branch. just in the hawthorne bush in front of The next day around the same time, the second But Bonnie's arrival sends the A quick feed from Bonnie and the After a fleeting visit from the first fledgling. The second tawny owlet jumps to the branch. Now that two have fledged, the remaining These fledglings are different They keep returning to the nest. Even if it is only for a brief visit. With the eldest three chicks at the entrance, the youngest has the room to stretch and pounce. Over the next few nights the third and then the fourth tawny owlets Bonnie arrives looking for chicks in the nest Interestingly now all four owlets have fledged none of the chicks returned to Until a torrential downpour It's tricky to find the chicks Ashwood is a large area and in spring I've only seen them regularly on my feeding branch or at my pond for hunting practice. It's great to be able to see their development. One morning Bonnie and one But one fledgling stays to feed and gets taken out by a buzzard. Ozzies bathing at the pond and quickly hard hit and I'm concerned for its well-being. the feeding post by a buzzard this morning. So I'm just below the feeding post now So I'm just having a look around, just got some There's no sign of the owl, just got to So I have had a really good look around everywhere few feathers. So I've just got Over the next few days only three Which is incredibly sad after all of the hardships I add a new supplementary feeding station next to the nest, so the owls aren't in danger of Blizzard attacks. And it doesn't take them long to show Bonnie is joined by the first, second and the third Fledglings. is at the nest entrance. Incredibly These chicks will continue to develop and flourish, under the watchful eyes of Bonnie job, raising these young chicks Thank you for watching and I hope you enjoyed subscribe to see more. Here's a taste of