- Right now we're going to our chicken distributor, BO BO Chicken, which is in at East Williamsburg. These are older chickens, actually, and we're gonna get a by using an older chicken, as opposed to a younger chicken. They breed their chicken specifically for the Asian market. Asian markets value the So I've gotta break these get them into our steam kettles so we can keep on schedule We've gotta make Pho Ga, a That's gonna take about five to six hours. So we're doing 15 birds today and we're gonna get 15 gallons of this beautiful yellow chicken stock. Stock is definitely the life Not only does it go into it finds its way into sauces. So this is our steam kettle. This is where all of our in our kitchen. Now, I'm gonna take the in here right now. Pho is a dish that I think is the gateway for a lot of people in getting introduced to Vietnamese food. We're not doing a very traditional Pho. It's a Pho that's been inspired So you look at right now, it just looks like kinda cloudy and murky. What I need to do throughout never let this machine hit a rolling boil. If it hits a rolling boil, I'm gonna end up getting For us in this situation, I want something that looks Close it up. To finish out the process, ginger and onion. All of this is gonna get prepped, getting ready to finish out our Pho Ga. This is actually a very The traditional way, the up and a lot of people teach it, they actually take the step here of roasting the onion and ginger. My personal opinion is, the roasting aspect doesn't that I'm particularly happy with. It makes the color of the stock a little bit I like something light and blonde 'cause I know the haters &quot;You didn't roast the ginger. You didn't roast the onion. That's how my mom makes it.&quot; Well, I'm not trying to make I'm trying to make it the at Di An Di while still honoring the dish. We're gonna bring this all up. We're gonna put it in and we're gonna let it cook Now we're, you know, three or You can see the colors change quite a bit. That gold layer that we're looking for, you're starting to see that up top. So we'll add in the onion, ginger. We'll add in the fish sauce and we'll add in our salt and sugar, and that's it. We'll let this run for another hour. Richie is just poaching off some rice noodles in We source these beautiful noodles, and it's the best noodle. You know, I will stand behind that 110%. So we kind of parcook it right now because once service starts we have to be able to Our chicken stock is First, we have to strain out all the bones and then we are going to release it from here and then pass to further clarify the stock. We now need to rapidly cool it. From a good food safety practices, we need to make sure so that there's no bacteria (upbeat music) 7:00 AM in the morning, this is one of the first to handle day in and day out, and it's making the mix for our Gio, our fried rice paper rolls. We have pork here that we grind in house. He's just trying to do his of the moisture as he can. We don't get all the moisture out. These rolls when they fry, because all the water It's gonna convert to steam and it's gonna wanna find its way out. We like to use whole shrimp for this. A lot of times, you'll they'll grind up the shrimp but I really wanna get in my rice paper roll. (funky music) So Andres is gonna take and he's gonna hydrate and then we're gonna add this all and combine it and mix it all up. First off, this is the rice for our fried rice paper rolls. The triangle shape lends itself to just having the right amount of rice paper needed so we can roll it and not have excessive amounts And making these is very similar to when I was growing up as a kid. This is something that I would While this process has this reminds me a lot of home. So we have a scoop to and he's now going to go through and place the meat mix on there and then we'll come back and It's gonna start with edges. It's important to get clean, sharp lines and then you're gonna roll from the bottom over the mix and it just This is one of our most We sell hundreds of these per day. Finished 42, here. We've got about 300 more to go, so we're gonna have to do another five to six times. So it gets par fried and then for the pickup, we'll fry it at a higher temperature which will complete the but then also make the So, this is from Green Point Fish. - Oh, now, what did we get? - [Dennis] We got the hake filets in, and this is a process that - We're going to marinate in banana leaves to of grilling it over charcoal. It's marinated in a Northern which is the fermented shrimp paste, Maya, which is a fermented rice. Kinda like shiokoji, but in Vietnam, it's more of a sour to a savory fermented rice. So this is our hake filet. Back in the day, they on a pan with hot charcoals underneath, thus giving it that smoky flavor. So to mimic that, we are going So, I'll move it around. You'll see it gets super nice and smoky. I'll add my fish, trap smoke, and I'll just let it bathe in the smoke and I'll repeat this - So the wrap and roll that we eat in Vietnamese cuisine. For us, it's something which creates a lot of which we like. So we have three different We have a fish one, we have a mushroom one with queso, and we have one with lamb. So we're just getting our This is from Smallhold Farms. We have these beautiful which we get, blue oyster ones as well, and then the other mushroom are these beautiful king trumpets. Yeah, and this will go into which is a wrap and roll dish as well. So we have to process all these mushrooms. We kinda create like with the king trumpet, blue (pans sizzling) We're gonna work on some dishes as we continue to tweak our menu. But we have a noodle dish for us previously. So we're thinking of doing so we're gonna plate up one - [Jimmy] We're breaking down this lobster for our seafood and garlic We used to serve it with squid, shrimp, a little bit of clams at one point, and now we're gonna try and make a nice, large format whole lobster dish. - [Dennis] We're not a top down structure where I'm telling everyone we're gonna cook that. I feel like we're more up for success. And when I say that, it's like, identifying the things and leveraging those skill sets. Jimmy with his strong there's no reason he can't as an Italian chef and apply them here in - [Jimmy] I'm just gonna try make sure they don't touch or stick. All right, so while that's working we'll start working the garlic noodles. So we've done this with a of noodles. Classically it's with, you know, Because, you know, I like I'm going with some just - At the end of the day, It's more of like, how can we cook noodles well And I think that's where this dish really - [Jimmy] So, I've just added a little bit of our Pho Ga stock to drop on butter, miso, garlic. It's a very deep garlicky flavor. You know, it's rich, it's buttery, you get that luscious seafood, but I really want that I grew up eating a ton of Everybody had the stinky breath. So, you know, one of my favorite flavors, one of my favorite and anytime that I see a my natural instinct is just add more. You know, we're always getting requests for group dining options, parties, so, but who's supposed to have in our back pocket? (upbeat music) - [Dennis] Well, you know, I already know this is just seeing the lobster Obviously, you know, finding we don't really have plates for a whole lobster, so that's something I - Yeah, as I was plating I hate how I plated this. - It's too big for this entire plate. So, you know, if we as a large form option, we for this, you know? So, but we'll taste it and see. We've always used like a round noodle. This kind of a flat noodle, I feel like it obviously than the round noodle. - Sure, and you know, do we send this with a lobster cracker? You know, do we send it with wet naps because people are already, but I've almost only ever but you have to consider the whole process of serving the dish, the guest experience. That's what hospitality is. It's not just about serving food. It's about creating an experience that's enjoyable that - So yeah, this is our base - [Dennis] So we use rice paper in a multitude of different ways. We have the grilled rice it kind of looks like a but it's rice paper that's been grilled and treated in a certain way - A lot of rice paper to United States is like, so it like, melts and it Our solution to that is of rice paper, using 'em and then putting 'em on the grills and what you end up is something is like, pretty sturdy and almost like cracker like that can hold up when, you know, you start putting So right now, I'm just like, so I have 'em ready to go - And then the final way, you see rice paper is as so that is rice paper strips. We top that with fried So in this case, you get to appreciate the As the rice paper sits, it gets a little bit chewier and softer. You know, one of the things get everyone involved in the R&amp;D process. What we're doing is called the banh chung. And this is a dish that's normally savory that we would eat for the lunar new year, but we thought we would try stuffing it with bananas and actually - [Marga] So I have a mold that I've cut into the sides of the mold. The banana leaves have The idea is, this is gonna this rice that's been soaking. I'm just gonna put some in there. These are plantains, right? The baby ones. So, they're sweet and I then I'm gonna fill the - [Dennis] You know, we have a 20 top in a couple weeks and I think Marga and I thought this might be a good dessert for us to try for this 20 top. - [Marga] So I'm folding the This is the complicated part. So I'm gonna fold triangles. - [Dennis] Right, so Marga, she has a Filipino background cooking. She provides that context and experience of the deep knowledge of Filipino cuisine. - [Marga] So if you look at it right now, it's a little loose, so When it's cooked, we cook it overnight so I'm gonna open it up for you guys. This is also why I like It's like, opening a present. You can eat it like this, So this is how it looks It's really like, crunchy on the outside. - [Dennis] Whoa, colors - [Marga] Those are the bananas, right? - [Dennis] Those are the bananas, yeah. It looks like, like sausages. - [Marga] Yeah. - I think it's awesome how They look like little hot dogs. - [Marga] I like it. - I like it, too. - It's a mouthful, but - I wish this was crispier, first of all. Feels like too much banana. - Banana to rice ratio maybe - It weighed the rice - But I thought this kind of, R and D task. - Yeah, I like it. - And I think it's something to try out and serve in the next week. We have a 20 top, so this is gonna be an easy pickup for us. Fry two of these off and cut 'em in nine pieces and we're done. So, you know, it's 5:15, now. Everybody's gotta try and Right now, the line cooks are up and they have to do plate ups. We're gonna get a lamb dish. This is a, you know, normal routine for us and that's our opportunity I'll start with the lamb dish. This lamb dish is part of You know, I'm gonna eat it right now just to double check everything. So we're all good today, so these checks done, plate ups are done, these are all good for today, so feeling confident that we'll be cooking consistently. Some kitchen notes today, we We're limited on bread. We sold a lot more banh mi so tonight, we're gonna start If we actually sell all and see if you get an update. We might be able to release a couple more. Let's have a good service, y'all. - [Jimmy] All day humming (speaks in Vietnamese) One (chef and customer speaking in Vietnamese) (classical music) - [Dennis] More than ever, we So hopefully, showing great service, but from it's stuff that I'm interested in. Hopefully we expose 'em to like going back to the rice paper. Oh, hopefully, they've Wow, I got rice paper in a I didn't really think about rice paper from that perspective. So just showing that there's as opposed to just the of other restaurants are it opens their eyes that there's more to Vietnamese food than Pho by me, and they'll start to dig deeper. I'm just hoping that I about Vietnamese food and (classical music)