Welcome to this episode of WW2 Sainte-Mere-Eglise for the 79th Anniversary of D-Day. The So I thought what I'll do, I'll take you on a my favourite things. And it's been a little really excited to go and see what they've done, years ago. So I'm really excited to go and check [Music] When you come to the museum there's painted up in the 746 Tank Battalion markings. Airborne for a few weeks after D-Day. Behind of a CG-4 Waco Glider in there. The big hall And then the one to the front is all about a walk through the C-47 hall first. Check that what's in there. So let's go take a look! So it is incredible! I've not been in here before in here you met with an original C-47 marked up, There's also a load of mannequins, with all jumpsuits, T5 shoots and you can even see some And got one playing original footage of US Army They've got some great artefacts in here. Paratrooper those from &quot;Band of Brothers.&quot; But what you might not who came up with a lot of equipment and designed World War II. And let's go and take a look really cool. This is the M41 jumpsuit. So this was the traits that Yarborough put into the uniform. The And then the pockets on the trousers as well. And it's the M42 uniform that we can see this paratrooper And all his web gear. But if you check out those pockets underneath his reserve shoot there. combat uniforms that were in use up until the mid more standard type design. But this really was the gifted inventor William Yarborough. So behind me here Pathfinders. Specifically the 82nd. Now these guys Midlands in the United Kingdom. But we can see here, the previous jump experience was to camouflage their on his equipment as well. And then here, this is the Drop Zones for the lead aircraft coming Airborne Drop Zones. So we've got the Eureka as marker panels. Amazing to see that equipment! like this as well. One really cool detail is this were going to tow gliders. That's where the glider across the the Channel or to wherever. And then it Landing Zone and hopefully managed to deliver everybody We've got guys from HQ 506th boarding their C-47 from how much equipment and gear they were carrying. And also as well, if you can see inside a &quot;tail dragger,&quot; ie. it's got that little tail wheel takes off. Just what a high angle it's canted up at. in the stick; trying to get to the front So this part of the museum is all about the What is really interesting, there's a small the 91. Luftlande-Infanterie-Division. And obviously, we all by Malcolm Brannen. But if you want to see more here in Normandy last year from the location and go It's great we've got uniforms representing the 91. Luftlande-Infanterie-Division, the 91st Air Landing Division. As well as from the German Fallschirmjager, the Von Der Heydte were attached to the 91st for the Normandy This display is really good. It details all of the equipment that a paratrooper the reserve that would be strapped to the chest. have housed ammunition, rations, medical supplies, to survive in combat for a few days before the that you would need: B4 life preserver and then and the well-known M1 Garand rifle. The M1 helmet, well sorry actually this is an M2. I'll try and get under here. You can see here it's got that was designed so they could wear the chin cup to the paratrooper, making their exit from the over, they would either tuck the chin cup up under served no more useful purpose. And here you've got and spoon. And then your mess kit as well. But they first few days of combat they would have three what you can see here. So anybody who's been in the a box or a wrapper. Or if you like camping as well. in the Armed Forces. This was what they took to then the inner was waxed so it was waterproof other things. Just to store personal effects in The food was pretty good but I think This is a really cool part of the display and it's got the signal lamp on it that you were held in racks underneath the C-47s. And jumpmaster and the pilot over the Drop Zone. if everything worked out, the paratroopers machine gun ammo, mortars, mortar ammunition. would need when going into combat on D-Day. to the Operation Neptune Hall and this is the the Invasion phase of D-Day. Specifically So this is really cool, as soon as to its risers and you can get an idea of just canopy there and it's camouflage material. up after the jump and then use them it was really comfortable to wear. And now Got the paratroopers lined From the 82nd. All waiting to jump, You can hear Taking fire over the Drop Zone. Stepping Dropping the paratroopers over the Drop Zones, It is a little hard to see in here, the lighting I'm having to film this on isn't the the best really, really good museum. And shows was to operate through. So these are some really the marshes and La Fiere. The 57 mil anti-tank gun there. And then 'Glider Riders' So this has to be one of my most favourite vehicles of the Second World War. The Kettenkrad. And used a lot by both the Americans and the Germans. But first So this is a recreation here of the 6 of June. Representing the Bazooka team of the La Fiere Causeway. And there is one of the armor started rolling across the causeway. Peterson on the right hand side, both sprung into action. bridge and to about these positions here. As the commander halted the tank and made the fatal error he was cut down with a burst of machine gun fire other side of the Merderet. At this point they went into the advancing German tanks. Now some of this the hill, But realistically, it was the two bazooka at the bridge. The first tank was stopped just other tanks further down. The rate of fire from arms fire from the paratroopers dug in back where to halt the German attack and to push them back 6th of June 1944; Peterson, Heim, Bolderson and Pryne Coming around we've got more dioramas. Couple and a mortar. These are really really well in action here at La Fiere. And .30 calibre MG there There's a great tribute here to the men artillery spotters. An L4 Cub hanging invaluable to the Allies. They were able work out the positions of the enemy and And this is a really interesting room. it's just off the Operation Neptune of Airborne uniform and equipment from all of So we've got the early British ones, And British paratroopers, Canadians, Fallschirmjager, as well as Italian paratroopers. It really does show the great variety of the Germans being the first real users of the Soviets because looking more in Western they were known and then you can see how they developed their own Denison smock. You can and this one here very very similar Before the advent of the classic The Airborne bicycle there, folding anti-tank or projectile infantry horrendous spigot mortar weapon. good as the German and American anti-tank And this British paratrooper here. You got your The X Type parachute harness, along with a toggle Drop Zones. What's also really interesting is And that would just be used just to contain the body and then that would be ditched on the have ever seen a TV series called &quot;Band of looked like. This was the British leg bag. You can see just below the map. Now these get a bad rep 101st at the last minute before D-Day. Whereas better understanding of how to use them. How to And then here the classic by all American Airborne during World War II. There's a reserve shoot from a T5, belonging to got 'RS' stenciled on it. And each unit in the 101st their Commanding Officers. So 'RS' for Robert Sink. Right And we're now going to go into the CG-4A Waco and check it out and see what they have in here. see this building has been built all around the And you can also get a really good idea Tubular metal frame with wood as well. All Gliderman didn't receive any extra pay. Unlike the danger pay for jumping out of planes. But after they finally saw just how much the glider troops started receiving extra pay after that. Although Getting in one of these! You can see as well the controls were. And if you've seen &quot;Saving Private Ryan&quot; you come across a scene where you see the crashed Waco glider, it was one of these. into the hedge. That's based on a true story and that in one of my other videos all about how the of the 101st Airborne was killed on D-Day in one what I was saying about the 101st and the 82nd extra pay before Normandy but then receiving it after. It really brings home to you the human cost and just how brave these men Here this is what I really like you can come in here and they've got local area. You know, to think the last time was by the guys using them for real in combat. to each item. You know how did it get in And you know what happened to the And now we've got a baseball jersey from the very unique! So here we've got just the standard cartridge belt, your M1 bayonet for the Garand, This is a B4 life preserver but this was from It's got the lightning bolt and Here's more web equipment. And interestingly, a Equipment used by the 327th Glider Infantry that was part of the 101st Airborne. Now this equipment here is of particular that would have been used to detect for mines. they used. And one of them in particular The glass mine. So absolutely minimal amount some of the more internal components but Different types of rifle grenades, then some very very impressive fighting knives and machetes. A lot of them as well in the trenches of World War I and Right so I hope you've enjoyed this episode the Airborne Museum here at Sainte-Mere-Eglise. If you that you need to put on your list of 'Must improved so much since my last visit as So it's great to see it go from strength