- You're going to learn a method of public speaking that that comfortable conversational sound. It's called extemporaneous speaking which is a misunderstood word. The key reason to use that it gives you the most versatility and it's a flexible approach and it's the one that There are other speaking do not tend to enjoy that when they should not, so let's look at some options to put For example, most audiences to speakers who are reading word for word directly from a manuscript. This is called manuscript speaking and it usually sounds dry and robotic. The speaker barely makes eye contact and stands motionless at It can be done well but some speakers can read and you can't even tell they're reading. They sound natural, but Those are typically or TV personalities who and they have speech writers but when the average speaker and looks down, most of the You might remember what it sounds like when a student is reading in front of the class. That's what most speakers sound like when they use the manuscript If you wanna lose your audience, as I say, this is a great approach, of comparison for a video like this. Another style that listeners tend not to enjoy is memorization. A memorized speech means that the speaker memorizes that can sound just as You can even hear that the or calculated intonation and even uses maybe that they practiced but total memorization for example, actors memorize dialogue. Performance artists might memorize a poem or a portion of a poem, but and it has almost no payoff for your average The method I'm recommending This works best for almost all public speaking Big picture, this usually at least at first, not a and you would practice your presentation numerous times beforehand. You would eventually reduce to what we call speaking only about three to five words per line. Your speaking notes would end up looking like a bulleted list of items You put those on a note card or a small pad of paper and you just refer to them when you need That's big picture. Now, there are some advantages Through that preparation process, the speaker gets to know his or her stuff well enough without relying on their notes. Extemporaneous speaking allows to your listeners as you go. You can expand some You can compress or cut other parts depending If you prepared a 30 minute presentation and you end up being told you an extemporaneous approach allows you to cut that five minutes or even more and nobody's gonna know the difference. At it's best, extemporaneous like a structured conversation. You have maximum flexibility like this 'cause you're totally prepared. You can't do those or a fully memorized speech. For extemporaneous speaking, your notes are there mostly They're like a safety net in case you lose your Ideally, you might just glance down at your notes every 30 or but you have notes and that Of course, like I always write out my most important direct so I don't misquote somebody important. I write out important but overall I don't need to in a larger word for word style outline. I'll show you an example of how to prepare your in a moment, but first I wanted to clarify a very common misunderstanding that I referred to earlier. Sometimes people refer to as speaking impromptu. In everyday conversation, I've heard people but that's not accurate when it comes to specific Impromptu speaking and are two different styles, In speaking competitions these are two different categories. I used to judge and coach when I was in graduate school. Impromptu means speaking what some people call &quot;Off Impromptu speaking to prepare beforehand and it's or maybe just a couple of You might have just seconds In speaking competitions for example, impromptu speakers might be to react to and they have two minutes to prepare a five to seven In a professional setting, to you unexpectedly in a how your high priority and Julie has just a few seconds In essence, she'll be that's impromptu or maybe of a couple of minutes to &quot;In a couple of minutes, I'd like to hear from you all about your That gives Julie a minute or to jot down a few bullet points but she still has no time to practice or gather materials or to an extemporaneous speech approach. Now they do have a couple Ideally, both impromptu and extemporaneous speaking that's why they're sometimes of them in the end involve The key difference is that extemporaneous of lots of time for behind the scenes research, Let's get even more hands-on and I'll show you how to adjust your notes as you prepare and practice in the days leading up to an There are essentially two ways to end up with very basic speaking notes with just keywords or phrases. I don't recommend the first approach but some speakers I know insist that they have to do it this way as part of their creative process. The first approach is to start with a full word for word Essentially, this is like a really rough draft Some speakers like to go through this because they want to get all of their ideas on paper just to figure out what it is They know they're not when they present, the draft From there, they revise their notes by shaping them into a detailed around an introduction, body, conclusion, the body of the presentation or four main points. This draft outline will be almost as long as their original rough draft manuscript but the structure will be more clarified but I don't recommend for word manuscript because to a speaker wanting to just of these notes, like I recommend the second method which is essentially skipping and begin with that of the entire message. This outline usually has lots This type of outline is superior to what you would've come up of a message because it's of the quotations, research, citations. The first outline is and longer than your because you're not cutting I always view my first detailed outline as an organized curated database of material I can use I give myself permission to put anything and everything I want in my first outline. Now, let's say you're at the point where you have that first and prepared and you're ready to practice and read through it. Let's call this day one. We'll pretend we are three days away from your actual presentation. On day one, I'm not really concerned as a speech or a presentation yet. It won't sound smooth. I just talk through the outline to myself. I just mutter through it a of the big pieces are in the right place and everything I'd potentially I read through it a few times like this. I cut and revise as I go and then I put it aside and sleep on it. On day two, the next day, I so start cutting the pieces don't work or don't need to be there. This will make the message You keep the best off and toss anything that's not working well. You cut extra words that you don't need. That means you'd be rewriting your notes and cleaning them up by cutting about 50% from your original outline. Each full page of notes now of notes with more space and your sentences are getting through it a few more times and you edit as you go on day two. You're not trying to or memorize exactly how don't try to repeat sentences as you talk through it, keep it conversational as you practice. You're just learning how to talk about the ideas and becoming more fluent with the specifics of the information. This is the process of internalizing the material I usually make small changes deliberately each time I tell a story so I'm not tempted to As long as I hit the I consider that a victory. I usually time myself that I'm at least in the general ballpark of what the time limit is. If I'm over time, I look find ways to compress what I'm saying. As much as you can, you look up from your stretch yourself to recall what comes next instead of looking down I practice a few times and then I put it aside On day three, this is the you repeat the process. This is your second big cut of the words from your outline. This second cut might and illustrations from the but will more likely from full sentences in your and closer to phrases or Your original full page of notes of a page of line spaces is really just a skeleton outline. It should look like a bulleted list of items you'll talk about but the actual content hasn't disappeared. You've just absorbed it to of notes will keep you because you know the rest of the story. A goal at this point is to have for about every minute So a 10 minute presentation with keywords only. You'd again talk through on day three, you'd end and revisions each time to your notes. This is the day before It's like a dress rehearsal, I gesture as I talk, take it comfortably. I pretend I'm talking to I recommend timing yourself each time you practice the day Make every effort not You have to fight that urge and this should be getting easier. Many speakers look at their by this point, not because So practice with your eyes up and if you truly forget just glance at your notes and look right back up and I practice it about three times and then I put it aside and sleep on it. The next day is speech day. Here we are and I always make one last cut to my notes. The morning of a presentation, I wake up early, I rewrite my notes on cards one last time to and clear and easy to I make even more cuts A story that used to be a long paragraph on a full page now can as a key phrase or even a single word. On the morning of, I always practice my a few extra times to make Also any tricky parts I In total, these three days that you'll mutter through or actually practice your let's say three times each through the tricky parts This is usually what it conversational sound that This may sound like a lot of work but the good news is this, you'll be automatically in about the top 5% of Most speakers practice just All of your behind the scenes efforts will make your presentation As mentioned, you can use in almost any and all That's not true for manuscript, memorized, Feel free to take a look on my website, including these seven tips to instantly make you a Thanks, God bless, see you soon.