Welcome to Happiness Garden channel In this video, I share how to grow it to grow fast When I just bought orchids, We remove all this moss, Because these orchid pots are grown in an industrial environment, controlled by temperature, humidity, and light Ideal for orchids. but when brought back, the environment has been changed, making these roots easy to rot You should cut off the damaged roots. Then wash the roots. Use used plastic bottles I recycle to grow semi-hydroponic orchids This way of growing will not need watering but still help the orchid grow very strong, the flowers are more beautiful and brilliant, invite you to watch. I need to wash the plastic bottle to make sure it's clean from fungi, and bacteria that are harmful to the orchid. Using the drill bit will cut out the positions here This part will be used as an orchid pot The rest is for water storage Using a glass jar on the bottom will help the roots not absorb too much water. Put the orchid in Put terracotta seeds around the pot grown in a semi-hydroponic environment, often in contact with water so we use breathable terracotta beads is the best If it's breathable, it's very rarely rotten And after planting, the roots will grow very fast I finished planting you water the potted plants, We only water once, next time you don't need to water anymore With this simple planting method, you save a lot of time to take care of With this planting method, you will let the water level cover part of the bottom of the pot The water will absorb itself, helping to maintain the moisture in the growing medium, we will not need to water anymore. When the water in the container is empty, remember to add more water to keep the growing medium in a moist state This is an orchid, I planted it according to this method, it is growing very fast now The flowers are long-lasting and have many branches on the same branch. This orchid I grow semi-hydroponic with pine bark Flowers bloom brilliantly, boldly, and last longer growing semi-hydroponic orchids, the moisture is always well maintained, the roots will grow very quickly It will help plants perform metabolism, absorb organic fertilizer and water very well. With this simple planting method, we will get orchids that grow faster. Hope the video will help you a lot. Next, I share how to help restore this wilted orchid. First you need to cut off the damaged roots Next, apply the candle to the spot you just cut so that the water does not seep into the body of the orchid. Take filtered water at room temperature Add coconut fiber to keep moisture Apply the gel of the onion to the stem of the orchid to stimulate growth Keep in a place with daylight and do not place in direct sunlight because sunlight will cause orchids to rot. AFTER 2 WEEKS The orchid stem is fresh again and grows a small sprout AFTER 2 MONTHS This is an old and wilted phalaenopsis orchid Don't rush to throw it away I will share tips to help it recover quickly I use aloe vera to revive it There are many gels in aloe vera leaves Aloe vera gel contains a lot of nutrients, vitamins and minerals to help plants revive quickly I pour water at room temperature to wet the orchid growing medium Fill this tray with water so that the steam rises to help the medium and the environment in the orchid growing area stay moist To tree lan into cover back. Keep in a place with soft light. Be careful not to expose to direct sunlight. After 1 week I will open it. You will be very surprised to see If you find it interesting, please like, share and subscribe to help the channel reach 1 million subscribers soon Next, I share how to propagate orchids from old, withered branches This is a vegetable glue. It prevents water This is a vegetable glue. It prevents water from seeping inside You can also replace this glue by burning a candle and putting it on to prevent it from getting waterproof Scrape off the outer membrane so that the sprouts are easy to germinate. You use 1 clove of garlic Apply garlic juice to newly shaved areas to wake up the sprout I use a type of moss Fill with water and check the humidity Put the orchid branch in Cover up Keep in a place with daylight. You must not leave it in direct sunlight after 1 month Next, I share how to propagate and stimulate rooting for orchids easily. Blot the cut dry Light a candle and apply it on the cut so the water doesn't get in. That way the orchid will not rot. Take 1 small piece of ginger Store in a place with daylight and take care not to expose to direct sunlight. After 3 weeks after 3 months Next, I share how to help wilted orchids quickly produce new flowers These are withered branches. I helped it grow many new branches quickly. My secret is to use a potato. Choosing germinated potatoes will be very good Potato sprouts are very good growth stimulants for plants Use 10 grams of potatoes Add 500ml room temperature water and puree Cut off the top because there are no sprouts Let the cut dry naturally Peel off the outer dry film so that the sprouts can grow easily Dip a sponge in the potato water you just made and place it where the sprouts are Repeat this once a week to allow the potato juice to penetrate and stimulate germination On normal days, you just need to mist to keep moisture Wait 2-3 weeks, new flower sprouts like this Hope this sharing content will help you in taking care of orchids at home better. If you find it interesting, please like, share and subscribe to the channel to help me reach 1,000,000 subscribers The video I have created many subtitles in many different languages, so you can choose the appropriate language Good luck. See you in the next video.