An old lady and an old man lived in a little house by themselves they had no children and they felt very lonely and sad at times. It gets so boring with just the two of us you are always out in the garden and I have nothing to do after i finish my cooking and cleaning. Well I'm sure you can find some other ways to keep yourself occupied. Hmm i think i will bake something today, I haven't done that in a long time. That's a good idea go ahead and do that. Make something interesting for dinner tonight. now I have to head out to the garden again as there are still some more weeds to be pulled out. The old lady decided she would make some gingerbread she got out all of the ingredients she needed and kneaded the dough for the gingerbread softly humming to herself, Suddenly she had an idea. let me do something fun i will make the gingerbread in the shape of a man a gingerbread man, my husband will be very amused I'm sure. So the old lady rolled out the dough and cut it out in the shape of a man let me see now, one little ball to be shaped into a mouth two little chocolate chips for eyes and these pretty red cherries for buttons. Oh that's one handsome gingerbread man. I'm sure he'll taste as good as he looks, now into the oven. The old lady went sat on her rocking chair knitting away while waiting for the gingerbread man to bake. Hmm I'm starting to get the lovely smell of gingerbread must be done by now, let me go and check. The old lady put on your oven gloves and went to open the oven door. But as she did the gingerbread man got up from the baking tray and jumped out of the oven. Good heavens, what was that? Before she realized what was happening the gingerbread man ran to the open window jumped out and in a second was running down the garden and out into the stream. Hey hey, where do you think you're going? come right back here, we are supposed to be having you for dinner. Oh no no I am not your dinner, for you can't lay your hands on me. run ran as fast as you can can't catch me, am a gingerbread man! The old lady's husband looked in surprise and his wife running after a gingerbread man. what's happening? Stop staring and run and catch that rogue. I had baked him for our dinner, but how did he run out? I will tell you all that later. Quick catch him before he vanishes. The old man starts running after the gingerbread man shouting at him to stop. The old lady cannot catch me, nor can you. Run run as fast as you can, you can't catch me, I'm a gingerbread man. Down the road ran the gingerbread man with the old man and the lady running behind him. A cow sitting beside the road saw the gingerbread man and said you look so tasty I want to eat you. The old lady and old man cannot catch me see if you can catch me, you fat thing. Fat thing, you cheeky fellow, just you wait till I catch you. The cow started running after the gingerbread man along with the old man and the old lady. Run, run as fast as you can you can't catch me I'm the gingerbread man. Along the road, they ran, with all the passerby's looking at them in surprise. A little way ahead a horse that was trotting along the road stopped to see what was happening. That sure looks like a tasty meal. Everyone out of my way I'm going to catch that fellow and have him for dinner instead of hay. Ho Ho so you also want to eat me come on you can also try but you'll have to start galloping instead of trying believe me, you will be having your hay only for dinner after all so the horse also join the old lady old man and the cow to try and catch the gingerbread man The gingerbread man was having a lot of fun seeing all of them trying to catch him A little way ahead he stood by the roadside Don't you think you should give up let me tell you again run run as fast as you can you can't catch me I'm the gingerbread man Once again the gingerbread man started running looking back at all those chasing him with a big grin on his face A little way ahead was a big fat pig walking along with its piglets when it saw the gingerbread man it said That nice sure smells good should be a good treat for my little piggies wait wait I want to have a word with you no, you don't you want to make a meal of me that is not going to happen you stinking thing what how dare you rude fellow i will show you come on piggies let's catch him and eat him and so the pig and piglets also joined the rest to try and catch the gingerbread man up ahead there was a farm and near the fence was a big brown hen when she saw the gingerbread man she said you look so yummy may I have a nibble? May I have a nibble? no, you may not but you can always try Come, join the merry procession. Run, run, as fast as you can you can't catch me, I'm the gingerbread man. oh what a sight it was there was the old man and the old lady trundling along The cow and the pig waddling along the horse galloping along and the hen running and flapping her wings with a loud sound I think I've had enough fun. No way are those slow coaches going to catch up with me just look around for some place to rest running has really tired me out a little farther away there was a river flowing gently The gingerbread man wanted to go across to the other side but if he fell in the water he would become all soggy as he was thinking of what to do he heard a voice want me to take you across? the gingerbread man looked around and saw a fox sitting against a rock you think I'm a fool you also want to eat me like the rest of them Eat you? a measly-looking fellow like you? you are not even enough as a starter, forget a whole meal! the fox was a very very wily fellow he knew the gingerbread man could run very fast and he was too lazy to run after him and why would you want to be so good to me i am not being good to you I was going across the river anyway so I thought you could hop on my back and I would take you across decide fast i don't have the whole day okay what would you want in exchange I'll tell you that when we cross over come on on my back when they were halfway across the fox told the gingerbread man I'm feeling a bit uncomfortable i think it would be better if you put yourself on my neck the gingerbread man crawled onto the fox's neck ah that's better after a while, the fox started moving its neck and told him oh my neck has started paining and I think it would be better if you sit on my snout the gingerbread man thought he was very smart but he couldn't guess what was going on in the cunning Fox's mind as before it did what the fox told him to There! Are you okay now? this was the chance the Fox had been waiting for as soon as the gingerbread man sat on it's snout the fox quickly tossed him up and caught him in his mouth as he fell and there ended the tale of the gingerbread man Thought he was smarter than me!