Translator: Denise RQ I am a founder of an IT company We perform software testing I know that it doesn't sound but what makes us a little bit is that we only employ people Yes. We only employ people And why do we do that? You might ask. Well, there's one simple answer and that is that they do it better. They test software better than others. So it's easy for me. So, why do they test this better? I will try to highlight that and explain a little bit why. But I will get back to that shortly. One per cent of the population is seemed to be on the autism spectrum. One out of 100. There's a lot of people here today so maybe I have but then you have to be unemployed; Asperger syndrome People with Asperger syndrome often have difficulties and also communicate with other people. They find that very hard, Unfortunately, they also have difficulties And are often left outside That is, of course, a waste of talent, because they have a set of unique skills that can be taken advantage of. So, let me get back to the why; I want to share a story with you, and it goes seven years back, when I started this company. It was me and four people We were going to help a client of ours Actually, it was our first client, that believed in our idea. We started in the offices of our clients, and we were giving a big project room - well, not that big; actually. But in this project room, you could take notes, That was what we did, because we were going that we were going to test. So going along, we took notes, and after a while, those walls After a while, I also noticed that one got very tired. So, during breaks, he would lay down on the floor and slept. He took a nap. This was new to me, because I haven't been so I asked him, &quot;Is there something wrong? He said, &quot;Yes, there is something wrong. Because I can't stop reading those notes; I read them all the time, every minute, every hour, every day. Constantly, I read those notes on the wall and that makes my brain overloaded.&quot; Of course, we took care of that. We erased the notes and created and we learned the software and tested it, thank God for that. Why am I telling this story? It's because I also entered the same room, at the same time as he did, and I did not get tired. I don't have Asperger syndrome, but he got awfully tired as I said. Because I have a filter Because when I entered that room, after a while, I didn't notice They were just there for me. But it was not the same for him. He couldn't block them out. He lacked the filter that we all have. That is of course a problem because there's a lot of impressions for example, taking the bus, makes many people exhausted. But it also can be and to us, that's an asset, because if you are going to test then it's about seeing the things So, to find a bug, that's something he's really good at, Many people with Asperger syndrome They can be very sensible to light, sound, smell, taste, and all different impressions. And this is, of course something hard, get the life to go by, but handled correctly, it also can be a real asset. And that is one example. People with Asperger also have a tendency to use the left side And on the left side, we have the logical thinking, and also the ability to see details. This is also, as I mentioned, something that is highly valuable in the area that we operate in. So, if we can create an environment that is of course an asset. But that is also a part of, I think, why they have difficulties with the social interaction This is me, 35 years ago; seven years old, smiling, happy, naive. I still am, probably. As I mentioned, but when I was a little kid, I was quite fascinated by how easily I could remember things And that was the case. When I was seven years old, Everything to me was ice hockey. So, names, numbers, different teams, read it once, and it was just there. And that was lovely, of course. And grammar - well, English grammar, was not a thing I was so interested in. So... well... It didn't come that easy. I think most people can [relate] to that, because if you're interested in a thing it's much more easy, of course, People with Asperger Syndrome, to have a narrow interest and like to dig down into [things] If you could take that interest, and make it a part of your company, All the employees in our company So, interest is also extremely important, but also something that people We also have to create where these people can function in, so that they can perform their work, do a great job and also excel As I mentioned, in terms we, of course, try to create Our company is, of course, We do it our way, or the autism way, So, we do things Not that much, Our Christmas parties, of course... (Laughter) They are a little bit different (Laughter) This is me getting my ass kicked This is what we do; we game, we eat, we drink, and we have fun. And this is the typical environment and they liked it that way. And that's why we do that. I hope I've given you some insight and also the answer to the question of why we only people with Asperger syndrome. These are some of the reasons. And why they are also better; if you could take a person but also has the skills needed, the analytical thinking, the ability to see the details and can combine these with a great interest well, then you have the answer That is what we have done in my company, and that's why we have seen and also embraced the potential of autism. I would also like to encourage to embrace the potential of autism. Thank you. (Applause)