amna: President-Elect Donald Trump faced a momentary setback this week when his initial pic to serve as attorney general act out of consideration. It cast a spotlight on the controversy surrounding his potential cabinet. We turn to the analysis of brooks and Capehart, David B and Capehart. Jonathan, I want to ask you about Matt Gaetz dropping out last evening. Pam Bondi was named as his replacement not long after. There are so many questions and concerns around Matt Gaetz even from Republicans. Was his dropping out inevitable? &gt;&gt; Yes. In normal political times, Matt Gaetz would not have been nominated in the first place. In these times we are in, especially with Republican senators taking a stand and saying, we don't think we can vote for this guy, yes, it was inevitable. The way he got the nomination quite honestly reflected the chaos of the first trump administration. I think him dropping out and Pam Bondi being selected as Donald Trump's knew pick for attorney general to me says that Donald Trump 2.0 is more organized chaos. You cannot make that selection that quickly if you have not been planning -- scenario planning ahead of time. Amna: David? &gt;&gt; One of the good news or comforting news stories for those of us that are not fans of Donald Trump was that he was elected I the primary vote where 17 million Republicans voted for him. David makes the point that the 17 million primary voters are hard core Donald Trump people. A lot of the 70 million just want the economy of 2019 back. There is some hope that as Donald Trump does maga-type stuff that a lot of his supporters that are not on board for the whole circus will pull back and he will lose popularity. Donald Trump once nothing more than to preserve his popularity. So he will do some u-turns. God is one comforting way to look at how this administration will play out. The less comforting version is that Matt Gaetz was so uniquely hated by Republicans on capitol hill that they were happy to walk away from him. Amna: There is the point about Pam Bondi because she is known as a loyalist. The Washington post is reporting that he plans to fire the entire team behind special counsel jack Smith who brought to federal prosecutions against him and use the department of justice to probe the 2020 election. Does having someone like Pam Bondi mean he can use the doj like that? &gt;&gt; These are anti-institutionalists. Many of them have scandals. There will not be a lot of trump appointees like Jim Mattis who want to be liked and do a responsible job for the government. When you pick someone with a sex scandal or financial scandal, they are on your side. They are going to be total trump loyalists and their mission is to disrupt the institutions. I think a lot of our institutions need some disrupting. Why can't we build subways in this country or fighter planes? A lot of these institutions have gone creaky and need reform but they don't need a blowtorch. Especially in the attorney general's office. Number four in the justice department. Amna: Back on the trump transition, there are still a lot of questions around the nominee for secretary of defense . Some questions about allegations of sexual assault and some troubling details that came out in a recently released police report related to that. We saw number of senators voiced concerns over Matt Gaetz and those allegations. Will senators stand up and voice the thing concerns about the nominated defense secretary? &gt;&gt; I expect them to do that but do I think they will? I'm not sure. I haven't heard much from the senators when it comes to the nomination of the secretary of defense and the way that we saw with former congressman Matt Gaetz. I am all for disrupting the bureaucracy and disrupting sleepy agencies. But with most of these appointments we have seen, these folks are not just about disruption. They are about distraction. That is what I am most worried about. The blowtorch that David is hopeful won't happen, I think they are off to the sidelines flicking the match trying to get the blowtorch to work in time for them to take their places in the administration once he is inaugurated on January 20. Amna: There is the point in all of this, when Matt Gaetz was still running there are four people that have been nominated for key posts that have all been facing sexual allegations. Is it that hard to find qualified candidates that have not faced some of these allegations? &gt;&gt; Narcissists like to appoint people like themselves. The fact that they are scandal ridden make them super valuable to Donald Trump. The defense nomination alarms me as much as any. We are in a complicated moment in defense history. The drone technologies here -- is here. It is making our traditional weapon systems, not obsolete, but less important. We need a secretary of defense that can adjust from the kinds of military we have had for decades to something different. A whole series of incredibly important decisions have to be made on how we handle information flow, how we do the signals that come across the 5g systems, do we have efficient 5g systems? These are technical decisions that have to be made by the secretary of defense. A guy without experience cannot make them competently. Facing the Chinese, it is tremendously alarming to have a novice. I worried about -- I worry about incompetence more. Amna: We know that votes in this election are still being counted. We have been reporting that Donald Trump won the electoral count but we are also saying it was likely he would win the popular vote and be the first Republican to do so in 2004 appeared the latest ap figures show that he received about 50% of voters. Harris received 48.4 percent of the electorate. We have seen Mr. Trump repeatedly say he won in a landslide and he has a mandate. His margin of victory is the smallest popular vote margin since 2000. Do you see this as a mandate for him? &gt;&gt; I do not see it as a mandate. But I see how he thinks it is. I remember president gorge W bush, Republican presidents always say they have a mandate simply because they have been elected. When looking at Donald Trump's victory, as you pointed out, the smallest victory in about 20 years -- some news outlets report that when all votes are counted he will be below 50%. They say they hve the mandate because he won the white house and Republicans held onto the majority and the house and retook the majority and have 53 seats in the senate. And so a governing trifecta in Washington I think is fueling the idea that they have a mandate. But what we are going to see once he comes into office and starts acting on all of the things he told us he was going to do, we will see if the American people believe he has a mandate to do all the things he has promised including mass deportations on day one. Amna: Is it a mandate? &gt;&gt; It is what you make of it. I don't even know what a mandate is. Joe Biden won a pretty close election and decided it was time for new deal II and he ended up losing because some of the policies he enacted were overreaching. I expect Donald Trump will have some blowback. And in the midterms, one thing we have learned about the midterms elections is that college-educated voters vote in them so a -- so the Democrats have an advantage. Amna: I have to ask you because I know you have been talking to your sources, when Democrats are in their postelection postmortem , how they reached consensus about a way forward? &gt;&gt; No. Democrats are going to Democrat. No, they have not reached a consensus. What I would say to them is -- it has only been almost three weeks. It is not enough time to understand and fully internalize the results of the election. They should take a page out of president Clinton's interview on Wednesday which is to go across the country and listen to people and see how you can best reach them in the next election. Amna: We will see if he takes -- we will see if they take that recommendation. Thank you.