So today I want to try a little bit today. And I'm hoping it will cause a comments, because I know and informed debate. So I look forward to that. The question is what It's quite a simple sum. It starts with 1. Then I'm going to subtract 1. Then I'm going to add 1 again, then subtract 1, then add And I'm going to do You get the idea of So what does that equal to? So one of the answers that it brackets like this-- here and here and you can see each bracket is plus 1 minus 1. Each bracket is 0. So you're getting 0 plus 0 So that's going to be equal That's one of the answers The problem is there If I do it again, we could put Now let's say this is-- plus again there plus So I started with 1 plus minus plus minus 1 plus 1. That's a 0. Et cetera, et cetera. All the brackets are 0. So all the brackets But I've got a 1 at the start. So now this is equal to 1. I've got two answers. I've got 0 if I put I've got 1 if I put brackets There is a third answer the very weird one. Let's say it has a number, so to try and find out what That's what we want to know. Let's do 1 minus S. So it's Let's do that. So let's write it out. Plus 1 minus 1 plus right. If we take the bracket away, that all the signs will get 1 plus 1 minus 1 That's what happens when I But what I end up with is the That's just the alternating So I've got S again. So I've got 1 minus S is That's fine. You can solve that. In other words, if I take the S 2S equals 1, which then S is equal to 1/2. That's a weird answer. I've got a 1/2. The sum of adding forever give you a 1/2. Well, it might be 1. It might be 0. But it might be a 1/2. So the guy who came up with mathematician called Grandi. He did this in 1703. He was a monk. He was a mathematician. He was one of those types. And he published this. And he said this is weird. It's 0. It's 1. It's 1/2. What's that all about? And the mathematical community And they said well, it I mean, you've got 1s and 0s. That's madness. It's can't be. Oh. Hang on. Oh, that's actually It might be 1/2. So there was a debate about I think 150 years-- quite a debate until the 19th with infinite sums really A lot of people think that I want to try and show you best answer is 1/2. And then the one after that, I'm thing to completely If we pick a nice infinite sum-- infinite sums, and there are bad nice ones is this. 1 plus 1/2 plus 1/4 plus And the way you can work out actually I'm going to show you The proper way to do is look We're going to add this So let's just make a I start with 1. I'll write that down. What do I get if I add It's 1 plus 1/2. It's actually 3/2. If you prefer, that's 1.5. Let's add the first three So 1/2 plus 1/4. Let's do that. 7/4-- it's 1.75. If I add the first 15 over 8, which is 1.875. And if you did the next lot, 1.96875. You might be able to see, closer to the value 2. In general, if I picked one minus 1 over n. And if you can see, as the n and disappears, and you're And mathematicians are justified whole infinite sum If we try with Grandi's series, Look at the partial sums. The first one is 1. And you add the first going to get 0. You add the first three You add the first four together, And it keeps alternating And it's not getting So this doesn't work with So I'm going to show method to work out sums. I'm going to take the partial the averages. I'm just going to average Almost the same way. I'll do it with this one first Let's take the first one. That's 1. I'm going to add the first two So 1 plus 1.5, but I'm going to divide by 2. So it's going to be 1 plus 3/2 Average is actually If I took the first three and plus 3/2 plus 7/4 divide by 3. And that gives me 17 well, hopefully, you get Again, the numbers are tending It's just another method It gives me 2 again. In fact, in general, what you Oh, the joke isn't important. Look. It's junk. But this junk is and smaller and smaller. So you're getting 2 again. It's just another way to But this method can be used Let's try it. We're averaging the So those are the partial sums. We start with 1. Then if you average the first by 2, which is 1/2. Take the first three, and then I take the first four-- 1 plus 0 plus 1 plus 0-- divide by 4. That's another 1/2 again, Take the first five-- so you might be able to see divide by 5. So that's 3/5. What happens is, in general, In general, you'll get 1/2 plus 1 over 2n. There we go. Again, and so you get some junk and smaller and smaller. This is all tending So together you're zoning So this is more technical than it's a second way to get sums. You average the partial sums. But it works for Grandi's It gives me 1/2. So what's going on? What's the difference? This second method-- it there are sums to find. A limit is when you're closer to the value. Now Grandi's series does not not getting closer and But you have this second It's almost like a limit, but It's a fake limit. It's a pseudo limit. It has all the properties It does all the same things. It's so close to being a limit, calculations where you expect But the difference is you're not and closer. To really bend your brain, We're going to try to imagine Imagine a light. We're going to turn the So you turn the light on. You turn the light off. Now every time, if I go along see a 1, I turn the light on. Every time I see a minus 1, So you turn it on, You turn it on, you The partial sums actually tell If you have a 1, that means If you have a 0, that means You're going to start After one minute, you After half a minute, you then After a quarter of a minute, After an 1/8 of a minute, And you're turning it on and quicker and quicker So you're doing that infinitely But if we add up the time minute plus 1/4 of a minute forever-- adds up to 2 minutes. In fact, that's that If you remember the video we that's not just getting closer actually compete it and process in two minutes. So in two minutes time, you'll the light infinitely many After two minutes, is If Grandi's series is 0, that If Grandi's series is 1, that If Grandi's series is 1/2, Is it 1/2 on, 1/2 off? Is it on and off at What do you think? So he's given a head start. He's got 100 meter head start. And then they start the face. Now Achilles sprints 100 meters, where the tortoise was. But in that time, the tortoise