When you pray in tongues, this happens in the spirit, when you pray in your heavenly language. believe that tongues is this spiritual upgrade people who don't pray in tongues in prayer are could have access to in the realm of the spirit. the spirit realm and I'm going to share with you in tongues. If you have the gift of tongues, drop but you desire that, we're going to pray for you that, I pray that as you listen for the next few of the Holy Spirit. It's not about tongues, it's about getting all that the Holy Spirit has for us. they treat the Holy Spirit as you know like I just I don't want for Him to make me look a little bit other people. But please understand is the Holy Holy Spirit is there to glorify Jesus and the Holy Comforter. So if your desire is like I want the Spirit is a person. For example, if you develop a you might not like you know I don't do this, I the way I am. I have a certain way that I think, and some people find it kind of challenging maybe want a relationship with with me,, then you're get to know me. The Holy Spirit is a person and look in the Bible, He came like a dove. He came fire. He comes and demons come out. He comes love, embrace this person and you don't desire judging His manifestations, and you're judging you know you might miss out on the Holy Spirit and Him, quenching Him. I love the Holy Spirit. I things about the Holy Spirit that you know offend my mind unfruitful because He's the Holy Spirit. anti-supernatural world view I reject because I drop this in the chat, I love the Holy Spirit. My spirits. They're pursuing all kinds of other witchcraft but I love the Holy Spirit. I are seven things that happen when you pray in realm. Number one, you will become stronger in the spirit realm. You are a spirit. Your to the natural eye. Your spirit is not something spirit is invisible to the natural. When you spirit man gets built stronger, gets stronger. according to the riches of His glory, to be the inner man. Now this does not mean only praying clear. But praying in tongues strengthens strengthens with might the inner man. Drop this might the inner man. Why? Because the inner man is a spirit that gets strengthened by the spirit when that again. Praying in tongues is not only the but it's one of the most effective ways through in the chat. Praying in tongues is not the only one of the most effective ways how the inner man and some people have not tapped into that. They time I've had a prayer time that I didn't pray in out. Praying in tongues isn't just like oh I have I'm just going to automatically pray in tongues. from the inner man. I want the prayer to be is to strengthen with might my inner man by that God will grant you, according to the riches this is what happens in the spirit realm. Your boost, gets strengthening through the praying in first thing. What happens in the spirit is you not Number two is you build yourself up when you pray happens with the speaking in tongues. People the public expression of this gift where there is where is the interpretation? You shouldn't be and people who have that a lot of times, it's and sometimes there's a little spice of anti- saying every person that believes that speaking in gift is that. But what I found out is usually that want you to see what 1 Corinthians 14:4 says, He prophesies edifies the church. So Paul is making a public use of tongues. Now when I say public use of everybody, when everybody's listening, and to give an interpretation or somebody else needs the prophetic word which is the word that is in a 100%. A sermon, a song, a prophecy, a testimony, can understand it. Have you ever sat in a service up in your faith. Yeah. Have you ever sat in you felt built up in your faith. Yes. Have you going on and you're singing songs and that builds can understand and you're participating. Now, you. A worship leader though he's worshiping God giving a testimony is building you. Paul in here no person giving a testimony or prophecy. need them but them building me doesn't replace myself up. So what happens is this. When you atmosphere. You can change the climate of whatever So many Christians have developed unhealthy have developed unhealthy dependence on somebody unhealthy dependence on the atmosphere instead of He who speaks in the tongue edifies himself. We we need to be edifying ourselves. Drop this in need to be edifying ourselves. You can change the are discouraged, if you are in a place right now you cannot concentrate. You're coming into a overwhelmed. All these negative feelings are in that through the power of the Holy Spirit and how tongue edifies himself. This is not referring you're edifying the body of Christ. When you're When you are sharing a testimony, you're edifying though you're worshiping Jesus, you're edifying That is great. If you gather together, one one of you has a prophetic word, one of you have a in tongues is for edifying of yourself. This is regularly, it's like a spiritual gym. You have to sing in a tongue, to speak in the tongue, to what happens in the spirit realm is my inner man the spirit realm is that my inner self is getting the common things I've noticed about Christians they battle with defeat, and discouragement, and life, they experience these emotional exhaustion, who are spiritually worn out, they're usually on God to strengthen them. They're waiting on God and say Lord, I want you to strengthen me but you you can strengthen yourself and that means is for God to strengthen you but God's been waiting Holy Ghost. When David lost everything and he was David strengthened himself in the Lord his God. Paul made it clear. You can build yourself up anytime you want to be in strength because the like the waters that are inside and when you open like water connected to your house, and you open dying out of thirst, and have water in your if you are lazy to turn on the faucet. So I just up every day in the spirit realm, your situation might not see anything changing, the atmosphere in atmosphere in your heart and in your mind might just feel lost. You feel under spiritual warfare. honestly, man life is just too hard. Stress is because life is too hard because our strength is not because life is too hard, it's because our not the struggle problem. See, your challenge strength. If you don't learn how to walk in the the storms of life are going to sweep you under that nobody else has an access to in this world. meditate, connect, realign their cheese and and they try to meditate and all of that but warfare of onslaught of evil and spiritual it doesn't have its great strength. If you day by praying in tongues, your strength will decrease. I'm saying when your strength matches wants to increase your strength. Many of you struggle. Drop this in the chat. When God does strength. Drop this in the chat. When God does not and God renews our strength, one of the ways when We build our inner man. What happens in my spirit man is getting strengthened with might. being built up. Now I can lift heavier things. Now flesh is weak. My spirit is stronger. My spirit Ghost. Number three, what happens in the spirit In Isaiah 28:11 and 12 it says, For with to this people, To whom He said, "This is the rest "This is the refreshing"; Yet they would not of the scripture in reference to tongues. There is refreshing, I'm not talking about refreshing that refreshing that comes from you know maybe eating one of your friends. I'm talking about refreshing another tongue. It's the way God refreshes you. speaking in tongues for like a minute but because what they're saying in the beginning, they in tongues until you break through. Don't pay at first to your emotions and your mood. Rest good feeling. It's this knowing that God is with what happens in the spirit realm when I pray is getting made strong. Number two, it's getting from God. Number four, you will release God's Jesus says He who believes in Me, as the Scripture living water. But this He spoke concerning the for the Holy Spirit was not yet given, because notice that rivers will flow out. When you are challenge isn't to receive more of the Spirit, don't have a problem as much with receiving as Spirit and it's not about getting more of the Holy portions. So you didn't get the Holy Spirit 1% the wife in 1% I got all of her but to know her, love that I'm actively pursuing. Same thing with the same Holy Spirit Jesus had but now the key you're releasing the river. You're releasing that You know I even tell people who sometimes come impartation and I understand the hunger behind said you know sometimes our problem isn't that we received. It's that we're not releasing the releasing that. When you stop focusing on trying and you position yourself to release what you've you will begin to step into new territory of to release the river of God. That's why when you the sounds, impressions, the promptings, the Remember, you speak in tongues from your spirit. that's why some people who are overly educated, and their mind creates this blockage where tongues if I don't understand it. If I am not in sounds and it's hard for a person like that. yielding to your mind, if you're leaning on your not on your understanding. This doesn't mean as we worship God with our mind. We don't worship God with our mind. We don't worship our mind. We Spirit. You won't release the river of on your understanding. If you're gets mastered by your mind, The scripture says to think on these things. The Bible doesn't tell a Christian to follow their follow their heart. The Bible tells a Christian you have a soul and you live in a body. When your life. Of course, not only you won't speak because God doesn't speak in your mind. He speaks That soul if that is the most exalted place it's all about that. Then what's going to happen in your spirit life and so what fasting helps spirit. What fasting helps is to throw the the spirit there. So that the spirit is subject its directions. What speaking in tongues helps is Spirit of God that's in your spirit. So Jesus synonymous with the spirit. Out of your heart, water. It's not just out of your thoughts and out in tongues, your mind is unfruitful. Now sometimes for. You're praying in tongues and you get this person like even this morning when I was carrying praying and immediately, I get this impression I don't know maybe it was because he also asked in tongues you know and sometimes the tongues get I don't know if any experienced that and sometimes sometimes you sing in tongues like I love to sing tongues and what it does is it releases that river be released. If you believe in Jesus, out of your it interesting. Jesus didn't say, into your heart heart. So as a Christian speaking in tongues is as much as it's a matter of releasing more Speaking in tongues is not a matter of receiving more of the Holy Spirit. So what happens in the I am being strengthened. Two, I am being built up. the river is being released. Number five, I can chat. I pray into God's will. You will pray this verse doesn't necessarily indicate Spirit also helps in our weaknesses. For we do but the Spirit Himself makes intercession for us not necessarily explicitly speaking about tongues. the hearts knows what the mind of the Spirit according to the will of God. But this principle for us. Paul tells that twice. And the Holy the weakness of not knowing exactly what to pray and sometimes not knowing who to pray for. So for. Sometimes we don't know who to pray for. they're in trouble, so you get up and you begin to He guides those tongues in that specific situation know those tongues. The devil cannot know those you're praying in the Holy Ghost and so I really time every day to pray in tongues. 5 minutes 10 it's building the spirit man in the spirit realm. clearly states preaching, prophecy builds the builds you. It brings refreshing. It releases of you, in the Holy Spirit and most of us are I want you to begin to let the river flow. Open I will fill it. Just speak in tongues and number what God wants you to pray about, according to pray for. Sometimes you don't know who to pray for The Holy Ghost helps us with that. Number six tongues, if you can pull the curtain right now and you're thanking God in tongues. In Acts 10:46 it glorify God, magnify God. In the spirit realm, spirit realm, not only there is a building up. Not only there's a refreshing that is coming to to meet the challenges of your situation but in on to God. There are words that are being used that your English, that your Spanish, that your Farsi, French, Italian language fail. Jesus in such a tangible, strong it. All that you were saying is oh my God. Oh my you try to describe the spirit realm through the we're given language to describe the natural, more majestic. The comparison I like to use is is your world like in the womb? Dark, very not much. Imagine somebody coming from the outside the trees, beautiful fruit, walking, flying, from that world being on the earth and tries the words will fail. There is no comparison. You reference for a person, a baby in the womb about point of reference. Every sound will be like... right. That's kind of like when you get a glimpse a person who went to heaven. I had an interview I can't describe it. The best I know and he would there are sounds I've never heard. He's like describe. You know eyes have not seen, ears have begins to use His language, the Spirit of God to this will sound like oh it's the same syllable. way if you listen to my language. If I speak I'm saying the same thing. You will be like well of the same thing. It's very vague but it's same sound to a person that's unlearned in that I mean that's a completely different, they're So don't judge the sounds by the natural. Don't of the spirit. Now sometimes our tongues are speaks. Usually that is done so that somebody who can actually be reminded of the reality when people heard them speaking majestic things they're not drunk, this is the Holy Spirit. just worship God, they'll be speaking about God language. That's usually not the case for every says in 1 Corinthians chapter 13 where he talks speak in the tongues of angels. So this spiritual makes intercession to God, prays according to that language strengthens the inner man. man. Somehow that language releases refreshing. That's what happens in the spirit realm. I have one more thing I want to tongues. It will help you to tame your tongue. tongue. Drop this in the chat. Speaking tongue. James 3:6 it says, And the tongue is a among our members that it defiles the whole body, set on fire by hell. Drop this in the chat. the Holy Ghost. Come on somebody. Our tongue is Don't you find it interesting. What is the first when you're filled with the Holy Ghost? Your meaning controlled, muzzled. He says, it's world your tongue is a fire. It could be a fire of hell that to be true? How many times did you set your wrong things. How many times have you set a fire then you went back you're like man I wish, I could started a forest fire. Your mouth will get you in the time. So our tongue needs to be tamed but set by the whole nature that it sets the whole it. You cannot control your tongue but you You might not be able to control your mouth Ghost. It is one of the smallest members that has the most dangerous effect on member. Marriages are broken because of and this is what God uses to preach the gospel. the Holy Spirit impacts, sets on fire when you of your weakest members in your body. Holy Ghost speak, that I will be kind, that I will be gentle, say. Holy Spirit I can't control my tongue. I'm surrender my tongue to you. Be in control of my in tongues it's like I'm turning my tongue over tongues in prayer but outside, when I no longer to bring encouragement. Holy Spirit use my mouth to build my wife, to build my kids, to build around me. He wants to touch your mouth. It's Amen. Now if you are here watching right now, whatever you're doing if you can. If you're to, if you want to receive the gift of tongues, I want to pray for you. I want to Holy Spirit and fire right there where you thirsty. Ask and be thirsty. Sometimes uses that to draw them closer to Himself Maybe you've been wanting it for a very long right there where you are at. The will come on you and you will speak in I want you to know that it's a gift. You a gift. Jesus says, if we ask the Spirit. As they prayed the Bible says, them utterance. What blocks that? What blocks overthinking. It's when you're thinking too much yield control. The other thing that blocks it I will not release. I will not speak. I just gonna keep my mouth shut. You do have to just begin to honor God. You can just begin to worship and how do you speak? The river The river. So the tongues come from the spirit. here but not from here. So if you're thinking overthinking because it's not coming from here, unfruitful. It's not turned off. It's just praying so don't overthink it and also don't just... Ask Jesus to baptize you. As you're thirsty for it, just begin to worship from your spirit, just release them. There is an everything we receive from God. Why? Because of heaven isn't dollars. It's not crypto. It's Jesus by faith and we also release those gifts over here that will tell you, you're making all listen to that. Just surrender to the Holy Let's pray. Father in the name of Jesus, Spirit. I remember the day Lord when you baptized like a river gushed out of my soul, out of my where my brothers, my sisters, my cousins started pray, I remember those even as I'm praying podcast, would you give that to them you will pour out waters on the thirsty. Fill with the Holy Spirit and with fire. Be filled with the Holy Spirit. Be filled of God is filling you and there are those that utterance, not from your mind but from your You don't have to type anything out. Just release Be baptized in the Holy Spirit. Be filled with the Holy Spirit. Be filled with Thank you Jesus. Drop that fire emoji if you're receiving the baptism of the Holy Spirit. People Thank you Jesus. We love you Holy Spirit. Drop you Lord. Thank you Lord. Thank you Holy Spirit. bringing this live stream to an end, I want to been a blessing to you, if our teachings and what I want to invite you to consider becoming a you to consider giving today to this ministry. and offering them for free to people. All for free as well as we're doing humanitarian not that. Those comments that you get on YouTube like legitimately, we support those things email. When you give through our website, we where we are putting those funds. Right now, so we can print a lot of books for Middle East. centers where people are trapped either in read and be inspired and we're able to do that consider you to be a partner with this ministry. whether it's small seed or a big seed. If it's a books. If it's a big seed, I can print a 100,000 that we can in Middle East and in forbidden We just need resources and so thank you for team on the staff that does a great job to help many people for Christ and we do our best, our financial accountability and offer things for