Okay. So this week Microsoft has been And one of the key things that they're the whole area of autonomous agents. So in this video, I want to look announced, and show you that how And that with this announcement, they've startups that are out there trying So last month we saw Microsoft updates to their Copilot Studio. And the key takeaway from that was that this workflow that they've got there. And part of that integration is trying to So people are finally starting to wake up by things that is not a chat interface. And you could argue that Copilot Studio interface when GPT-4 came out, et cetera. But Microsoft is making a hard pivot will often be triggered by a variety just you chatting with it In a window. Now, the announcement that they've whole bunch of different things, But now a lot of it is Now I didn't even know what But it seems to be a suite of tools or customer relationship management, definitely focused at big companies. From what I can see, this is very system that they rolled out recently. So the big announcement for introducing 10 new autonomous agents. And I want to go through Because I think you're going to see like a full startup in itself. And the fact that Microsoft is so really shows how aggressively they're So these agents are built for a number they're trying to help in businesses. Now we'll go through each of the agents categories that they're going for here. The first one is sales stuff And often that's going to be lead Second one is servicing people and around follow up all this kind of thing. Next one is finance. and the last area that they're Now they mentioned that So I think this is fascinating looking of Microsoft research with things like these more sort of general agents. In some ways you could say This is more where they're actually And a key element of this is Microsoft so that they can integrate into They can integrate to things in the cloud. They can integrate to So let's jump in and have All right. So first up is sales. and the first one that they've got up So the idea here is that this is lead generation, that kind of prioritizing the best and then drafting a sort of personalized So the goal here is that this is going to focus on to the high priority prospects. Now, most of this seems to be focused going out and spamming the world, which gen seem to be doing at the moment. But you can imagine that this will to be more efficient, to prioritize be able to follow up with people. The next agent is a sales order agent. So the idea here is something that order process from taking an order, through to interacting with the delivery stuff, that kind of thing. Finding out the preferences of following up, if something's out You can imagine that this again is a whole building a whole startup around, to help with their sales ordering process. I've actually mentored some program that are doing things very Alright, third up. We've got the supplier So again, this sort of hits home with approached about someone who was trying So what does this do? It manages sort of supplier interactions, of delivery orders to work out, when try and mitigate those sorts of things. and the idea here is that a lot of time supply chains or have these supply other people, delivering things to them, So you can imagine this agent being up when it looks like something's going information when something hasn't shown try and expedite something when you. You need it urgently. and being able to have all of this perhaps bringing it back and putting whole start-up right in one thing. So I'm really trying to show you going after these kinds of startups . Fourth one up is financial Again, I've heard of startups that they're helping companies with able to identify any discrepancies. Being able to provide actionable So this is Microsoft's take on that. This is going to help reduce a you could imagine this will help improve And also we'll just make the whole Next one up, we've got the So this is building on the sort of To be honest, I don't know a lot about see, again, this is something that their customers that, Hey, we would And this brings us to the sixth agent, So lots of people have, been tracking for travel, for expenses, And there've been lots of startups It's something that companies are, a more efficient process for doing So they're reducing So this simplifies project, And ensures Timely billing Okay, next one up. Number seven is the customer intent agent. So I kind of find this funny, this startup into consult for one of their and basically what this is that often customers will where in the company, who to Or in some cases, like the case that have sort of one email where it's like, And then they need some way is this like a sales thing? And we should route Is this a marketing thing? We should route it to that. And you can imagine that this that agents are really good at. And my guess is that, Microsoft about how could they do this? I know SAP has built things around Again, a reasonably simple task for agents, as we know them. All right. Number eight. customer knowledge management. So the idea here is that this as you going through here. That this is going to update knowledge interactions, you could imagine that into phone systems where every things automatically updated, that kind of thing. So this is going to help service teams them to keep up with what's going on with in a contact center, that kind of thing. All right. Number nine. here were definitely into So this is the case management agent. and the idea here is that this is going the start right through to the end. and this will be doing things like of issue this is, deciding who should Again, this is suited to agents very well. It streamlines the whole case times, that kind of thing. And you could imagine that this is get happier customers anytime And yet again, there are plenty to do this thing for companies. So there's a definite pattern All right. This brings us to the last one in here, So you have the idea here from what for scheduling, operations by, doing categorizations, there's particular agents that we're seeing. And you can imagine that this kind of people out into the field to make sure for the problem, rather than wasting that's not the person with the expertise someone else was needed to go out there. So yet again, we're seeing, the uses out some kind of text input or some and then working out the So, if you look at these 10 agents see that there are really common So they're doing a lot of things like deciding isn't a lead high information that they have around it. Again, we're also seeing the big past of things like personalization getting the right message to the And that all of this is focused manual interventions or manual labor to read things and decide that, This will go to this other place in here. So overall these 10 agents, I kind of agents is a sort of field of startups. and this is one of the things that got both sort of the horizontal plays trying to make agents software that use cases, but then we've got also the going in and saying, we're making making agents just for salespeople. It's going to be really interesting to And you can imagine the other big this kind of concept, basically giving reduce their costs, reduce the time it Okay. So after I recorded this video, Who's the founder of VentureBeat, Microsoft's announcements about what impact startups and stuff like that. If you are interested in You'll be able to check this out. we ended up doing, quite a decent chat So, if you are interested to find out more with these 10 agents, but with other areas check out the chat on VentureBeat. Anyway, as always, I'd love to hear agents that they've left out here. what things do you think that they're and how do you feel about Microsoft are so early in this agent's game. And as always, if you liked the video, and I will talk to you in the next video. Bye for now.