&quot;Jinsei Gyoza&quot; is a popular Chinese restaurant located in Nagoya City. Super heavy char siu like a rock. Overwhelming visuals. Everyone will fall in love with its taste. The most popular item is the original menu item ``Sara Taiwan.'' A must-see cooking scene with lots of orders. The ultimate menu that you want to try at least once in your life. Be sure to watch until the end to fully understand its charm! . Hachiken-cho, Nakagawa-ku, Nagoya, Aichi Prefecture. This time I came to &quot;Jinsei Gyoza&quot;. Mr. Mizutani, the owner. Preparation begins around 6am every morning. He's going to wash the chicken bones. The soup contains chicken bones, whole chickens, and pig's feet. The restaurant's popular menu item is &quot;Sara Taiwan.&quot; A soup-less ramen that originated in Nagoya. Thick and filling chashu. Once you try it, you will definitely become addicted. This time, I will introduce all the charms of this &quot;Sara Taiwan&quot;. Please take a look at the overwhelming cooking scene! . A large amount of pork. This is pork shoulder loin for chashu. This is a brand of meat called &quot;Happy Pork&quot; from the Chita Peninsula. Take it out and let it bleed to warm it up. This is pork arm. This will be used for chashu to take home. The fatty part is made into chashu and given to customers, and the lean part is used to mince dumplings. It's fresh and very plump. Make mince for gyoza. Next, add the pork shoulder loin from earlier into the soup. Put the largest items in first. This small amount of timing is also very important. Let's continue to simmer. Fresh onions Use for dumplings. Since we make onion dumplings, we don't add cabbage, Chinese cabbage, or chives, just onions. Now add the arm meat that prepared earlier into the soup. A soup full of flavor from a variety of ingredients. Just looking at it makes me hungry. Mr. Mizutani always does the main preparation by himself. It takes 5 hours to prepare and is a test of physical strength. Cutting apples. Add it to the soup along with carrots and onions. Making full use of ingredients is one of the skills of a chef. Make the gyoza. Squeeze out the water from the onions. First, put these in first and add the ingredients. Add sesame oil to the fat made from the supernatant of the soup. Add garlic and our special oil. Mix it in a food processor. Mix it with the onions. Cut the meat and cut the onions. Mix the meat with seasonings. Just squeezing the onions and putting them together now, right? In total, it took less than an hour. Even if you run out, just mix it right away and it will be ready in no time. If vegetables don't have a certain amount of water, they won't taste good. It will taste better if you don't squeeze it too much. The gyoza are now complete. At the entrance, a mom was preparing to open the store. They also sell products at the store. Sara Taiwan is also sold online. This is the staff member, Mr. Kuma. I'm Kumagai. Nice to meet you. I came from Niigata and am studying here. His dream is to open his own shop. I love eating out and have traveled all over the country. Learn about this shop on YouTube. I was shocked when I ate it. JKT) So you said, "Please let me work"? . I came here to eat once and couldn't forget the taste. &quot;Please let me work here.&quot; When I went outside to close the store and clean up, He was standing alone. A bear appeared (lol). *&quot;Kuma&quot; means &quot;bear&quot; in Japanese. I encountered a bear. (lol). He said &quot;Excuse me!&quot; ``I came from Niigata.'' &quot;Could you please let me work?&quot; he asked. So, my husband interviewed him, listened to his story, and We also found out that he had a good personality. Looking back now, it seems very strange. (lol). Isn't that right? Kuma) Who are you talking about? . Thinking about it now, it seems really gross. (laughs). Kuma) I just couldn't hear that part (lol). JKT) What was your previous job? . I was a firefighter. JKT) Do you have any cooking experience? . I have no experience.! JKT) Huh? Are you learning to cook for the first time? . I'm a complete amateur. JKT) Do you like eating? . yes! I like eating. JKT) You like food. He's a lively person. He's got a lot of power. When he came to our house, we also gained more power. It's very helpful to have him there. Making a dumpling. I've always wanted to go to Hokkaido. That's what I told my husband when I got married. I told my husband, &quot;Please take me on a trip to Hokkaido.&quot; Kuma) I'm sure he's already preparing for it!. JKT) How long have you been married? . Umm... JKT) He talks a lot about cooking, but when I ask him questions like this Humans don't live in the past. I just cook the food in front of me. It's like that mistake of the past, even if it's pursued now. It was a mistake, after all. We met when I worked part-time at the place where my father was training. JKT) I see! . That was the beginning of both of our mistakes (lol). Why did this happen? It's true. Why did this happen? (laughs) Thanks to her, we've been running the shop together for 18 years. We probably breathe the same breath. She is my best partner. Please edit it like that. (lol). JKT) I'll edit it properly! (lol). They are, in every sense, the perfect couple. Even before the store opens, more and more customers are arriving. One hour until the store opens, and there are already around 30 people signed up. It looks like the char siu has been cooked. Take them out one by one. ah! heavy! . There's a lot of pork fillet in the pot with the sauce. An irresistibly delicious scent. This is shoulder roast. It's like a rock. 1 hour and 15 minutes left until the store opens. The number of staff has increased and preparations are progressing. Staff member Ain. He is originally from Vietnam and has been in Japan for about 3 years. Previously, I was an international student and worked part-time. Everyone is so kind. They always help me with many things. Mr. Zan, a staff member, (I worked here) 10 years ago. I worked here when I was an international student. I quit here once when I got a job. I'm working here again as a helper for the first time in 10 years. The store is currently short on staff. I wish I could be of help. Ryota works efficiently. He has a wealth of experience and will lead the kitchen. Minced meat preparation. The scent of garlic and soy sauce stimulates your appetite. The char siu has also been completed. First, remove the arm meat. This will be sold at the store as a take-home chashu. It looks really delicious. The shoulder loin that will be used for plate Taiwan has also been completed. It has an overwhelming presence and is dignified. Jinsei Gyoza's specialty is the extra-large char siu. I am amazed no matter how many times I see it. 25 minutes left until opening. The customers seats are also ready. Customers came to take pictures. It seems that many people come to take pictures of the chashu. This is the &quot;500 yen char siu&quot; to take home. 500 yen including sauce fee and pack fee. You can enjoy the chewy char siu in a variety of ways. Full of customers waiting for the store to open soon. The 500 yen chashu pork is selling fast. Collaboration products with food manufacturers are also lined up in stores, and these are selling fast. 11:00 Business hours have started. As soon as it opened, it was suddenly full. The kitchen suddenly heats up. Kuma will lead the hall. An order for Sara Taiwan comes in. First, add a large amount of bean sprouts. Add chives to it and pass through the oil. Burnt soy sauce. Add mince and garlic. An irresistible scent. Add the bean sprouts and chives again. He'll be bold about it. Toppings such as char siu are placed here. Looks really delicious! I can't get enough of it. Sara Taiwan char siu. Many customers choose this topping. It's so soft and full of flavor. Overwhelming visuals and volume. The cooking at Sara Taiwan is done by two people. Ain handles orders. He will keep track of the quantity and toppings for each order and prepare the noodles. When Ain arranges the noodles on a plate, the hot ingredients are then added immediately. The completed plate is immediately delivered to the customer. A technique that allows you to create outstanding combinations. The food is being brought out one by one. This is the soup provided as a service. It goes well with punchy dishes. This is chikuwa tempura. One of the Taiwanese toppings on the dish It is served piping hot. The tenpura topping is also very popular, The Sara Taiwan rush continues. 2 pieces of char siu topping! . Heavy custom with a large serving of noodles, It seems that many people order char siu + chikuten. Just looking at it makes me hungry. This is also a popular dandan noodle. The flavorful soup is filled with the scent of sesame seeds. Complete with large-sized chashu. It's the best! . 11:30 It's getting even more crowded. Orders come in one after another. Pour the eggs into the piping hot wok. Make garlic fried rice. Add garlic. Another irresistible scent. Fried rice is also very popular and we receive many orders. Mr. Zan makes the dumplings. Mr. Zan's careful workmanship is a must-see. What a beautiful gesture. You can see the carefulness in the quick work. This is char siu bowl. The rich flavor of the sauce goes well with the rice. Chives are added to the wok. Add eggs here. This is the popular &quot;Tamahan&quot;. Chives cooked in a hot wok. Eggs that are fluffy. It's the best! . Next comes Corn. Add bean sprouts here. &quot;Corn Sara Taiwan&quot; is full of corn. This looks delicious too. Next, add the chashu topping. The sweetness of the corn goes perfectly with the Sara Taiwan. It's now 12:45. Stop ordering here today. It was sold out because of the customers who were waiting. Amazing! . It's finally the last spurt. The excitement in the kitchen is at its peak. The gurgling sound of the pot stirs up the heat even more. Just a few more until sold out. Mr. Mizutani also shakes the pot with enthusiasm. Full throttle with no brakes right after the store opened. They rushed through the rush at once. This time I did an in-depth interview at I introduced the passionate chefs and the ultimate cuisine, &quot;Sara Taiwan.&quot; Everyone, please try it at least once! . Cooperation with the interview : "Jinsei Gyoza".