"Nothing short of apocalyptic-" "-four million acres have already-" "-the end of the world as we know it-" I hope it doesn't end at all. Doomsday would you know annihilated -- every human achievement, if we're choosing apocalypses out of a lineup, might be our kindest method of exit. Nearly every things clean come Armageddon -- it's strangely because, ironically, it's the gentlest ending banana. Specifically, this banana, from the moon-sized hunk of potassium, the object appears out the sun. I'm reminded of a passage from W.B. in which a colossal beast threatens to plunge close to an archetypal herald of doomsday as one as the sun" -- fear personified. Because, it malicious giant, to witness destruction on a scale Though not actively malevolent, a banana that size humanity, kicking off a Yeatsian end-of-days -- concept. And yet when I gaze upon the Great colossus, I find I'm rarely as scared as I should horrifying than small ones. Yet past a certain devastation can start to feel like entertainment. depicting absurdly-vast creatures wreaking havoc. these clips are usually posted with the caption joke of course being, that there's nothing you like the banana simulation, these shorts seem like they are fun, because while, yes, a giant monster threat is so big that there's nothing you We're culturally-well-acclimated to seeing look at the legacy of a character like Galactus, a 'Planet Eater' in pop-culture. Galactus is the his very inception the result of writer Stan "I said to Jack, 'make him the biggest guy you can of destructive power, individual lives lost become are this massive, the camera pulled this far back, in a disaster movie become faceless cannon-fodder. human cost of a large-scale apocalypse. It is The film "Beasts of the Southern Wild" offers a 'ends of the world.' The first ending is all-too communities, destroying housing, displacing less familiar: giant pig monsters, once frozen in to pieces. Both disasters loom large in the mind the Louisiana bayou. How could they not? To her community living south of a protective levee, for each day bringing another catastrophe, another "Hurricane Lizards and Plastic Squid," biologist distant... the human brain is perfectly capable of threats." He's citing George Marshall there, a psychologically, extremely poorly equipped to if a problem seems too large or too gradual to sort of... shut down our fear response. We might of things, sure, but it's hard to fully process supposed to do in this situation? Of course, it's your home. Though there's an argument to be made Southern Wild" are an abstraction, an attempt surrounding her, there is ultimately nothing film was shot on location in 2011, real flooding which has since become precipitously worse. Is it calamity might imagine a different sort of ending, least a little more theatrical... a little quicker? that appears on the news every night yet one dream of a monster? [Carol Gasps] The show "Carol apocalyptic anxieties of our current era through of the -- "Hurtling towards earth, unclear but of the world? -- every second is precious now --" An ominous rogue planet is hurtling towards the object promises an ending of similar bombast Carol's reaction to the planet, because with Carol -- an ostensibly normal middle-aged-woman -- be -- everyone else is up to... what you'd living the lives they've always wanted, because don't enjoy if there are only so many seconds She is still folding her laundry, still still sending checks regarding her expired credit a part of me wanted to shout at Carol, to ask fleeting, that the end is coming and these moments completely. Because we're all Carol, to an extent. that any number of looming catastrophes might cut onto that fear, to use it to break from routines, to ignore our ever-present dread. What else "Carol and the End of the World" is a company, and others like her do menial office tasks, for at least when busy and overworked... it's harder to impact of "Carol and the End of the World" can be devastating "Melancholia" ...a film about another and trajectory. Much of the actual plot, however, disaster -- a wedding between lead character, profoundly unhappy. For the first part of the planet, but it's implied Justine has a unique with doomsday on the horizon, would she attempt "I thought you really wanted this." "But I do." the title 'Melancholia' referring to both the name depression, a mental condition that Justine is melancholy comes from external circumstances and inarguable that the approaching wedding is a seeks to go through with it, as if she still "Melancholia" and "Carol and the End of the World" our lives like they have an ending. Because even is fleeting, that's how it works -- but knowing and the End of the World" could have, of course, just like how Justine could have called off the choosing to actively change trajectory, to break a life while waiting for the apocalypse... almost with most rogue planets in fiction, the moment of nightmarish limbo, a period of protracted dread monsters: who mercifully tend to get right down this is Unicron from the Transformers franchise, a harrowing aspects of rogue planets and rampaging doesn't slay its victims in the initial collision. planet's intestines, the very boundaries of their seems the worst of both worlds, both sudden and doomsday that could surely only exist within the a matter of seconds. You cannot sense the presence is the kind of ending that's difficult to apocalypses, it is frequently represented with a a mushroom cloud, or a mutated human: a victim of an element of what makes a nuclear detonation so when trying to convey the horror of an ending it's almost better to be caught in the blast than nearly as much about the atom bomb if it were to gas that deforms you." Both aspects of a nuclear film "When the Wind Blows." Based on the graphic an elderly couple in the English countryside away. And yet at first, neither seems particularly on the doors they use to build their pitiful having enough custard -- but not about the bombs because they have unwavering faith that the pamphlets will protect them. It's an outlook only follow procedure, and the end of the world the atomic bomb explodes. Duck and cover! That's isn't entirely unfounded. They both lived through so a few more bombs don't seem worth making a it does come -- the couple thinks they must be in they don't realize, what they can't imagine... is a flash in the pan -- fallout is an invisible hell, that cannot be outsmarted by simply ducking and me down." The confidence of the couple in "When even after the sky turns dark and the nation between how we perceive apocalypses, and what I spoke of crowds in disaster movies, how they crowds are always the protagonists. The chosen cars and escape what the rest of humanity cannot. not to picture yourself as one of these canny enough to stay ahead of Armageddon. These everyone sees themselves in this way, that in clogged with countless people with the same idea, away from. ...I think most of us know that on some the end of the world will also apply to you. "We debris. All in all, I'd say we've been very lucky that "When the Wind Blows" does not end with the the kind of ending you can escape post-exposure, the sort of problem that can be solved by not mass destruction unceasingly claimed by the media Wind Blows" was released, a very real nuclear throughline that emerges in Svetlana Alexievich's interviews from survivors of the catastrophic officials consistently downplayed the risks of radiation," one survivor recalls, "The doctors gas." There is a sense, in these interviews, of seeing, and what they were being told they should Marshall's writings on the human ability to ignore unwieldly problem, authorities decided to happening. "The radiation level is being coverup, we now know that there is a monster It's called the 'Elephant's Foot,' a gargantuan time of discovery just standing next to it for mass were to ever hit groundwater... the resulting likely even more destructive than the first. concrete and steadily dropping in radioactivity, still surprising to me that the solution has isn't that usually humanity's solution when it and then, if that doesn't work, say there's film "Monsters," giant alien squids are spreading situation... like they would any other far-off to worry about. Though we, the audience, can tell the zone of infection is rapidly growing, very this town isn't going to get hit for another two dangers, a part of me wants to believe that if wouldn't continue on with a business-as-usual understands what the director means when he calls movie. People aren't running and screaming -- life reassuringly -- a fair bit of running and screaming same era, also attempting to be.... quote-unquote whole thing in found-footage-style shaky-cam -- a feel like the ancestor of the 'What would Like those videos, "Cloverfield" strives for a where the film was advertised less like a movie, through. "In a way the film is an experience. The there when this monster attack occurred." But is a strange way, I hope so. Because I think this preferable to the one in 'Monsters.' At least everyone is screaming -- but they're all screaming not that big a deal' or 'we should still go experiences have given me... an abundance of hope in global crises. In his article "Why We Don't despite high death tolls, disease is one of those fully processing. Though it leaves visible scars invisible vector, and therefore easier to overlook I saw a lot of people posting about how even if, would still ask us to come into work, and -- yeah, rather they just hurry it along. "When you think is 'Great I don't have to go to work tomorrow?' done to us?" Has the world ending with a monster form of apocalypse? After all, it's not like so their monster-filled prophecy of Ragnarok could imagine. It probably wasn't seen as Biblical accounts of beasts heralding the explicit language of punishment, and I think many doomsday monsters. But I wonder if some ancient sky.' That is to say: exits so grand and immediate it's not like our ancestors weren't aware of other natural disasters -- there have always been slower, yet, over and over again, monsters have been the if we have some innate understanding that these of "Monsters" spoke explicitly about this instinct about a figure that looms slightly larger. reboot." "I'm at the new Godzilla's LA premier." the big G-man is no longer a direct metaphor for implied to have existed since time immemorial, ready to violently right the scales of the natural Edwards has stated he drew upon our predisposition in the minds of humans, is the expectation that doom. "There's something deep in our DNA. There come. And now we live in the modern world and our so our nightmares get thirty stories high." ...I claim our instinct for doomsday monsters is for me, an undeniable sense of inevitability to really -- towering over the horizon. "It taps Godzilla was going to come. Deep down I knew he few words, I think, that speaks to the impact of creation of filmmaker Christian Szczerba, this are, once again, shot in the handheld, 'what would feeling of raw dread they conjure turns them... into is an exercise in sheer, silent terror. Yet strange sense that you're witnessing... something natural decomposition process of Earth itself. flocks of birds appear in both videos. In fact, a shimmering flock of... something -- a sight both left to wonder: 'is this ending really so bad?' playing through Strange Shift Studio's 'Chasing ruined landscape inhabited only by yourself, gameplay of 'Chasing the Unseen' is surprisingly to the experience of beating "Shadow of the and equally imposing behemoths -- but "Shadow thrilling action -- where you take your sword the Unseen" offers no such climactic beats... there of the world. An overtly abstract game, it's takes place after some calamity. But that was if that's the case, then surely these monsters But unlike in "Shadow of the Colossus," these The same is in fact true of the "Creatures of the never really see them destroying anything. There monsters are more like... the cleaning crew, here even if these creatures are, in fact, the source gentle, so tranquil one can barely discern why to go? Hideaki Anno's "Evangelion" series is, in better for things to end with a monster... whether, even be saved. Okay, I say that, but "Evangelion" that making any judgement on 'what it all means' we do know. Spoilers ahead. "Evangelion" primarily boy conscripted to fight against monsters that, drafted into a war he doesn't understand, facing existence is worth fighting for. He is, to put like most characters in "Evangelion," lacks trauma of the world around him, and deprived value of humanity at all. Shinji's task for most a horrific war-machine just as bestial as the against. But the ultimate herald of the apocalypse off the original series, ascends to a form of is... so complicated, we don't -- it's a whole thing Rei, seemingly, isn't ending the world out of borrows a preexisting plan by a secret society of the Human Instrumentality Project. In abstract, to hurt each other, to wage war, to make any collective. In practice... it means everyone turns against this plan. "Evangelion" is one of the only at least semi-willingly, works with the monster to better for everyone, that maybe the kindest exit will we be separate, no longer will we drop bombs terrible endings we might have closed the book Nothing. We're all goo now. We can finally story ends. Despite everything he's been through, has caused for others, Shinji, ultimately, rejects of agonizing uncertainties, he decides that the monster crumbles away. I've heard people it is, undeniably, at times extremely dark and for a story that concludes with the assertion that turning. I honestly find this finale extremely section, where reawakening from the goo, Shinji of ruin. Where actions still have consequences. appeal of a monster... is that it takes away the rise, contagion spreads, all those things are, and that's not a fun concept. But if, like, a Unfortunately, or I should say, fortunately... I are heading. The kind of ending we'll get probably to be perfectly honest. Because the problems The idea that there are things we can do in this the beginning of the video that I hope it doesn't think it's understandable if, on occasion, wiping the pressure away. And then, we keep going. this entry, consider lending your support by icon to stay up to date on all things Curious,