- Extreme rain events are the US and all over the world, but the problem isn't the amount of rain that falls in any one place, it's how long it takes the rain to fall. And fascinating new research that's changing. Over the last century, global precipitation has only increased by 0.04 inches per decade. But looking at individual that some places have over the same period. However, more rain isn't the whole story. That's why the organization groundbreaking risk map what NOAA calls 100 year floods. These are events so extreme that the odds of them happening in any given - 100 year precipitation event once every seven to eight years - And that matters because are built with this metric in mind. But why the change? It's because a warmer atmosphere meaning it can hold more moisture - For each additional By one degree Celsius. The - Vapor. And that's hydrologic cycle. Dry times get drier and wet times get wetter and not only just on a yearly scale, but down to the hour and the minute. So First Street reanalyzed to the minute their analysis and led to a new flood risk It turns out that some places precipitation and more drought should In this episode we're gonna what regions are most at risk and how we can adapt with - This is not something through when it comes to a - We can learn a lot from to extreme rain because Just last September, the of rain in a single day. - A place like New York City and it was covered in lakes and streams. And over time it's been filled in. The - Same is true in nearly every city. We've replaced natural permeable surfaces with concrete and asphalt. Nearly 72% of New York City is now covered So instead of a natural to be managed by a sewer that no longer exists. - The original designers that know that we were gonna have - One in a hundred year event occurs about once every 35 years. - This is a new problem, so to two inches of rain per hour. - Our infrastructure just can't keep up with all the rain that we're getting. And the NOAA maps, which and Atlas 2 that we and figure out where to for flooding, events aren't - They use traditional historic methods for measuring precipitation risk. And for a long time, The problem is if you have trend, then all of a sudden now the average what the current events are. It actually pegs them back to as 20 or 30 years ago. - In other words, the and not forwards. So First Street decided to take a different - Our report was really precipitation events as opposed to the average precipitation And it's not necessarily of these events, but when we're seeing more of the rainfall events over shorter durations, which is causing more - Flooding. Amit Shivprasad lives in Hollis, Queens. His neighborhood has been for a long time, but Looking around the area to absorb Rainwater and Amit learned that this area - So this is actually our house where you guys are right now. So if if you look, it's of a pond right now, and this is what the pond looked - Look at an old map of New York City and see where all the creeks and then you look at today's that it's pretty much identical. - FEMA's 100 year floodplain 14 directly impacts the cost of and access to flood insurance. But since the map doesn't many communities are left out. And as a result, overexposed - Flood insurance was never because we don't live in a flood zone or a FEMA hundred year map. But - Flooding has devastated this community. In 2021, after Hurricane Ida made it traveled up the Eastern rainfall in its path It dropped over seven inches, of rain per hour. Amit's neighborhood was not prepared. - It started off as a normal and all the warnings start to go off. Ran downstairs, grabbed my poncho, with me and my dad took our shovels and rake went out to clean every single time it rains. But - The sewer basins on functioning that day. - City was doing construction and they pretty much had all Notice as the rain was coming in higher. So I ran up and grabbed my keys, moved the truck up the block before I got back down the entire street was flooded. - The flooding killed - 11 of those people died in most of them here in Queens, and her 22-year-old son, and Nicholas could not survive waters crashing through the wall and pouring into their basement apartment. - Tara and Nicholas were tenants in Amit's family's basement. Before Ida he lifted the doors to his to prepare for flooding, but the storm brought too much water. He no longer rents out his basement and now uses the space - Unfortunately, the wall collapsed and that's the reason why So I've done my part where I just pray and ask God that it never floods again. That's all. - Ida resulted in $75 billion Over 33,500 buildings in New and Amit's remodel alone cost over $344,000. But not all areas were equally Hoboken, New Jersey didn't and this is partly because to this new climate reality. - Flooding has always been a We were originally a The area where we were All of these low-lying that were filled in for hundreds are very subject We also have a combined sewer and our sewage flow into the same pipes. Now with climate change, we're more severe storms. - To address the flooding issues, Hoboken has been building We went on a tour of the how these green spaces operate. - This is one of the 19 rain gardens that is in resiliencity park. And these rain gardens will manage water during a rain event. You'll see that it Water is slowly being our storm water system. It's filtered through the rain garden through all the plants and the soil. Then that water slowly drains that's below the park and then And that's all water that During a rain event, our that is under this lawn that comes from the park as from all of Northern Hoboken - And it's working. Hoboken has seen an 88% decrease installing these mitigation measures. And only time will tell if future climate changes. But it's strong proof of concept. The comparison of Hoboken and Hollis also follows another trend. Recent studies find that race and wealth play a big role in where natural disaster and this impacts safety and A study from 2018 found that in areas with at least $10 billion disaster, white families of about $126,000 post recovery wealth decrease of $27,000. This map shows the extent of this wealth gap in some Hoboken is 64% white while Amit's neighborhood in - 1.3 million. New Yorkers live either in or directly adjacent to a flood plain, and that's gonna go up By the turn of the century. Half of those people are our federal government, and half of those people are communities of color. - Hollis, which is Amit's and the adjacent Queens village, underwent a $24 million to 2021 to try to address However, the Hollis community still experiences frequent flooding. - My neighbor across the she comes over to our house 'cause she's afraid that her And you know, it's, That everyone in the community - As the climate changes and Intervention efforts complicated and challenging. - And this is gonna be one of that we're gonna face over where are we gonna stay and There's no one solution or for every place. - But there's hope for Every dollar spent on to an $8 return. - So we can manage that water and turn New York City into a in every place that we can possibly do it. We'd like to absorb water, so it could be on our green roofs, - Now that we understand the challenges and opportunities to let's get back to First which focuses mostly on flooding - There's about 8 million special flood hazard area compared to our about 17.7 million properties. Most of that, about 65% of that gap that we see is actually - risk. In fact, by FEMA's own 40% of flood insurance of the high risk zones on the FEMA map. But maybe the most to NOAA's flood maps. This shows the difference and what First Street found where 100 year floods are like in the case of New York City. Their study even found that in some areas, 100 year floods have now making them more than 12 times as likely. - The Midwest in particular sees a lot of underrepresentation of those one in a hundred year events, places like Southern Indiana and Northern Kentucky Kentucky metro area. They're seeing the one in a Atlas 14 records as much as one in seven or one in eight years. - According to First Street, but the entire Northeastern part of the United States has a hidden risk of extreme precipitation. And even in Northern California, which is seeing a decrease the likelihood of a 100 With climate change, we're and complex impacts to We may not know exactly what but it's clear that change is happening. So it seems like it will In this episode. We've learned the stakes of flooding from these and looked at places like that's doing a great job to our hydrologic cycle. But I'm curious, how is your community adapting to these changes? Let us know in the comments below.