On December 8th 1941, just hours before the Japanese troops stepped foot on a newly hostile but Malaya, which at that time was under the start of a two month military campaign that culminating in the Fall of Singapore and the East. The threat from Japan in the east had long expiry of the Anglo-Japanese alliance in 1922 that limited the size of the Royal Navy. In told the Prime Minister of South Africa "..if us at the same moment as war was declared of extraordinary difficulty." Singapore was constructed, where a British war in Europe. It was hoped that the presence aggression. But after a war in Europe did ships to the mediterranean, so no battlefleet With no deterrent in the far east, the British war in 1940. They looked to the United States act as a deterrent, but the US was not interested far east- what it fundamentally saw as British In July 1941, Japan fully occupied Vichy French ringing in London. Suddenly Japan had naval Singapore and the Dutch East Indies at risk at Singapore intensified- especially after with the US, but still did not have any public holdings if attacked. It was provocation without So the Admiralty endeavoured to find some Admiral Sir Dudley Pound, did not want to battleships from the Atlantic, not while the He therefore proposed in August 1941 that east. The Prime Minister, Winston Churchill of the navy's best ships being dispatched "offering an elusive menace to Japanese number of Japanese capital ships." approach. The new King George V-class battleships come into service, and would be facing much than the British had deployed against Bismarck. that it was too soon for the brand-new Prince When the Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden intervened a deterrent to Japan declaring war, the decision second newest battleship sailed for Singapore, as the commander-in-chief of the grandly-named As the British had been agonising over Singapore, had been committed to expanding southwards the war beginning before the end of the year. of British battleships at Singapore was not of Wales or the older group of ships the Admiralty had settled on December 8th, with attacks Burma- as well as the pre-emptive attack on At the end of November Prince of Wales rendezvoused Along with a very small destroyer screen, in the east, until reinforcements could arrive on December 2nd. Less than 24 hours later submarines were heading south to watch Singapore. two capital ships had done nothing to 'deter' the Phillipines to meet with Admiral Hart, Fleet. Hart agreed to move a destroyer division Phillip's ships, but could not do so before, Not long afterwards, on December 6th, RAF off Indochina, heading south. There was immediate Malaya. Repulse was quickly recalled from to act. Overnight on December 8th Singapore and a few hours Admiral Philips later was that hostile troops were streaming ashore war with the Empire of Japan. fleet had failed before a shot had even been Pearl Harbour meant that the Allies were decisively estimates of the Japanese force off Malaya his by 5 to 1. But regardless, the Japanese for Malaya to be saved the invasion had to the Eastern Fleet, designated operationally 8th and swung north. Japanese airpower. In the Mediterranean no made at more than 200 miles range. It was Indochina. With the large distance and element over Malaya would not be expecting ships and for attacking land targets. So, when at 1am support from airfields in northern Malaya on. helpfully shielded the British ships from submarine spotted Force Z and quickly signalled Admiral Nobutake Kondo ordered a task force had already loaded for ground attack had their bombs. By evening the clouds had lifted, at planes tracking the fleet. With the element the prospect of a successful attack was slim. back to Singapore. and at 2.10am they were spotted again by a date position and course, and meant that attack dark. That same night Philips received reports and decided to take a detour to investigate- the British admiral once again. came up Force Z was disappointed to find Kuantan destroyer HMS Electra. There were no additional ships had been spotted again by Japanese aircraft. signal to ask for fighter cover from Singapore. bombers appeared over the horizon. Force Z's with 66 guns of 4-inch calibre and higher effect- none of this first wave were shot one hit to her port hangar. Twenty minutes followed, using patches of cloud cover to runs in pairs or groups of three- it was very disrupt them. The consequences were severe- torpedoes in quick succession. It was an ultimately rooms were smashed, putting the ship into At 12.10 the flagship signalled that she was a single torpedo raid to cripple one of the Meanwhile, shortly before midday Captain Tennant air cover, before manuevering sharply to dodge was an almost constant barrage of Japanese more torpedoes were successfully sidestepped. Prince of Wales was taking a huge amount of hit by four more torpedoes and its speed was a hit on Repulse, sneaking through after a The Japanese bombers now focused on the battlecruiser, couldn't dodge them all. The AA batteries was shot down, but it was not nearly enough. seconds, and quickly took on a huge list to was doomed, and ordered abandon ship. At 12.33 the first world war, rolled over and sank. still struggling on, but slowly losing its for Singapore to send all available tugs, and sunk, only 325 days after being commissioned. battleship in history. Just as she slipped the area. They had taken off just seven minutes it remains somewhat of a mystery why air cover It was a grim defeat for the Royal Navy. Months of ships to send had ended up with two capital benefit. The only comfort was that destroyers From the two ships 2,081 sailors had been The sinking of Repulse and Prince of Wales off the coast of Malaya. Japan would be free as they embarked on the subjugation of the While Admiral Phillips was engaged in his decision makers were trying to work out how fleet at Singapore. Doing so would require troops reached the Straits of Johore and could then Singapore would be rendered useless regardless So plans were drawn up to hold Malaya against Arthur Percival, commanding ground forces 48 infantry battalions to securely hold the 30 battalions were available. These were split garrisons spread around Malaya. Additional which could be used as garrisons and to support The British force represented a mix of troops recently arrived in Malaya and had little jungle fighting. Many Indian battalions in had actually been trained in desert warfare Though there was plenty of artillery and anti-tank personnel and absolutely no armour. The defenders The contrast to the Japanese invasion troops command of Lieutenant General Yamashita Tomoyuki, Northern Malaya and drive a third through for amphibious operations, well motorised from fighting in China. The invasion would division as well as support from the Japanese Both sides thought that the battle for the to the outcome of the campaign. To that end, north east of the peninsula, designed to extend It was estimated by those in Malaya that a a successful defence. Those in London disagreed, the amount actually in Malaya in December worse when you consider that the aircraft obsolete or unsuitable for deployment in other was made up of the US-built Buffalo fighter. Japanese fighters on both land and sea. for its airfields created a challenge for a very advanced front line to protect them, across a wide frontline. the Indian 3rd Corps, with its two divisions Infantry division was stationed in Johore two more brigades were retained in Singapore brigades, four were on the frontline. The to defend Malaya's northern border with reserve to shore up any breaches. held the east coast, protecting airfields brigades, so had no reserves available. Neither other during an invasion. On December 4th, a Japanese convoy of 19 ships reconnaissance plane reported the armada south as this happened, the key decision for the or not to launch Operation Matador. Matador to seize key ports and prevent a Japanese Denying the ports to Japan would mean that all the way from Bangkok, massively hindering Originally conceived as a bold and decisive been slimmed down on account of the low number Division would still advance to and secure would be permitted. Two Indian battalions ordered to hold the Japanese instead at an Thailand known as 'the ledge'. This smaller Matador had been controversial, as a pre-emptive might make Britain look like the aggressor took until December 5th for authorisation Far East, Air Chief Marshal Popham Brooke could only do so if Japan attacked Allied a Japanese landing... or as a reply to a violation The wording of Brooke-Popham's orders was in charge of declaring war on Japan, so he invasion really was imminent before ordering about Japanese convoys being sighted at sea he held off until their intention was more bluff. The Indian third corps, responsible Matador was ordered to the highest degree This order found the commander of the third with General Arthur Percival, the overall Heath was deeply sceptical of Matador- viewing the large distance that needed to be covered so Brooke-Popham's hesitation to give the following day, weather over the sea was poor, detection until 7pm- a full 30 hours after By this time the fleet was just 70 miles off to launch Matador now with the expectation beat them to Singora even if the British left that Matador should now be cancelled- but not wanting to dispense with his only offensive third corps was ordered not to begin Matador, it at any moment if ordered. this was essentially the worst of both worlds. their forward positions near the Thai border, And every minute spent stationary was another defenses further south at Jitra, which had a Japanese advance north of the airfield at The night dragged on, with British commanders uncertain of the exact whereabouts of their they got their answer. The first blows of the Malayan campaign were of Kota Bharu, on the north-eastern coast under Major General Hiroshi Takumi from the a little over five thousand men, made up of batteries of anti air guns and artillery. from 8th Indian Brigade under Brigadier Berthold was a single Indian battalion which inflicted wave. However, they could not prevent a few waterways of the marshy ground to get behind rear that destabilised the dogras' defence. Less than two miles inland from the battle launched air attacks with aircraft from number anti air fire lit up the sky as the pilots, raids on the transports carrying Takumi's It was a welcome victory, but the fighting After four hours of fighting, by 3.45am the beach, which meant the airfield was already Recognising this, and keen to repel the invasion a counter attack with his reserves. Two Indian from north and south. As well as this, fourth was brought forward to reinforce Kota Bharu, Throughout the day tough fighting raged on get the upper hand, aided by large air attacks. when a rumour went around that the Japanese identity has remained a mystery - ordered policy go into action. Buildings and fuel Key and the RAF commander, Wing Commander it was too late. on the beach from 7pm, and the position at to the town of Kota Bharu itself, a little 8th Brigade had pulled back further. A Japanese for the loss of 320 troops killed and 528 68 killed, 360 wounded and 37 missing. of the Indian third corps General Sir Lewis retreat, with 8th brigade withdrawing inland part of north-eastern Malaya to Japan, but the rail network to the west coast effectively. Percival, who was horrified at the prospect so soon after the invasion. Soon though, a of Malaya would leave the British no choice. 8th 1941, the commander in chief of the British Marshal Sir Robert Brook-Popham, was under in of Imperial Japanese troops landing at Pattani. Brooke-Popham's closest fighting near the Thai border, waiting for the order as part of Operation Matador. long couple of days since the Japanese invasion on whether to execute Matador or not meant Singora and Pattani to the enemy. After taking Brooke-Popham made his decision. At eleven third corps, General Sir Lewis Heath was informed Heath was furious at how long the order to waiting for orders all night, only to now south. British communications in Malaya were hours - a full 12 hours after the landing commander, Major General David Murray-Lyon at the town of Jitra. Precious time to dig had waited for Matador. out was known as 'Krohcol'. This group at the start of the Japanese invasion. It inside Thailand known as 'the ledge'. and then went on to reach the road south of at Jitra would be encircled and the entire The Krohcol advance began at the much-delayed after Japanese troops had landed. They got did one of the two battalions assigned to 3rd battalion the 16th Punjab regiment- ran hostile Thai policemen. As a result, the British five miles across the border- until the evening The following day ran more smoothly, but five by the vanguard of the Japanese 42nd Infantry and the 42nd regiment quickly set about mauling Krohcol back across the border. A small mechanised delaying force referred on December 8th. They held a position ten When an armoured Japanese coloumn arrived But no sooner had the trucks and tanks stopped an aggressive envelopment of the small force force was swept into a retreat that would bridges as they went. It was the kind of bewildering, would become all too familiar with over the - 8th had brought large parts of the Japanese regiment had pushed towards Kroh, while from south at speed. They were supported by a battalion defeat of Laycol, there was nothing now between Around the same time as the Singora column to stall them, the Indian 11th Division's on the so-called 'Jitra line' still mostly the troops would spend long hours digging rain, preparing for the oncoming storm. The along a twelve mile line to the coast, with To delay the Japanese and give more time for was sent to create a blocking position at north of the main line, which centred around links. plans to abandon the airfield at Alor Star, morning of December 9th. General Murray-Lyon he knew was when his own troops reported explosions staff had taken a 'scorched earth' approach, were actually relying on stores kept there. Murray-Lyon of what was going on, despite holding at Jitra was to protect the airfield. reconnaissance regiment of the Japanese 5th Saeki, contacted the forward elements of the Saeki's mixed force of tanks, artillery into Changlun itself, where the Punjabis dug 15th Brigade's commander, Brigadier K. A. of three available Gurkha battalions from at Asun, about halfway between Changlun and After dawn the following day, Colonel Saeki stubborn opponents after noon. The Punjabis tanks caught up to and overran the battalion, the enemy to have advanced so quickly. The heavy losses. Around 200 men would rejoin battalion was effectively eliminated from Asun when an anti tank rifle knocked out the to destroy the road bridge into the village As a result, Colonel Saeki could resume the The inexperienced Gurkhas had not long been speed and firepower. The forward companies annihilated, with more than 500 casualties artillery batteries. There were further equipment in the west was destroyed too early, leaving guns and artillery on the wrong side of it. with Saeki keen to press home his earlier quickly the anti-tank ditch wasn't finished. out at around 8.30, before a more substantial 12th. The 1st Leicestershire battalion was by dawn, but to the east Saeki's forces and the neighbouring Indian battalion, the One of the casualties of the previous days so on the 12th the commander of 28th Brigade, Believing the situation on the right flank with two Gurkha battalions- using up the last with artillery support, the British and Indian though an attempted counter attack was repelled By this time, General Murray-Lyon had decided division should retreat. He requested permission miles south that was in many ways superior and the other senior officers refused- just were unwilling to give up such large areas In the afternoon the fighting intensified. arrived to reinforce Saeki, pressing home of the Jats. Several hours of close combat question was on the verge of running out of In the late afternoon things started to go opened up between the Leicesters and Jats, south- was coming under artillery fire. At to withdraw. Finally 11th division was granted it was dark. General Murray-Lyon now had to fire, in the dark, down a single road, with can imagine, it fast descended into chaos. to set off cross country. Others didn't too late. A retreat became a rout, and the 4.30 in the morning. damage inflicted on 11th division. The 15th 600- less than a single battalion strength- In the 28th Brigade the 2nd / 1st Gurkha battalion was more intact in manpower numbers, but this chaotic retreat. of a entire division had been driven from and a company of tanks. It was a dreadful of British decision making in the days, weeks describes it as "one of the British Army's the entire war". He argues that poor communication defeated piecemeal- the Japanese forces had of battalions at once, so the British numerical The defeat at Jitra marked the end of the Malaya was lost, and the British command now hold in central Malaya. Gurun, which was arguably the finest natural But with no defences prepared there, the troops began this back breaking work, the Japanese as they had done at Jitra. The initial assaults but that night a second attack drove a wedge it and forcing a retreat. 11th division fell back again, but this only and Indian troops regrouped at the Krian river, of Penang were hopelessly exposed to the Japanese. more than 5000 civilians on Penang the island were given the option of becoming refugees troops on December 19th, and Butterworth airbase Japan's grip on the air war that it had General Murray-Lyon's 11th division was Perak river on December 17th with Japanese was not in a good way, with the 6th and 15th another and morale extremely low. Arthur Percival, the overall commander of make a leadership change. On December 23rd of the division to Brigadier Archibald Paris. spent the last couple of weeks fighting rearguard There were further changes at even more senior Robert Brooke-Popham, the commander in chief soon subsumed into a unified allied command American-British-Dutch-Australian Command, Wavell, who became on paper the ultimate commander between Burma and Australia. division was now intending to hold a position jungle terrain meaning it could not be easily this position in strength on the last day this time around. An attack on two Gurkha driven off, as the Gurkhas excelled themselves Japanese attackers. It was a similar story brigade resisted fiercely, supported by British on the mountainside to the east of Kampar. were intact, but the Japanese had secured to press an attack on the merged battalion 2nd. All through the day, against a superior out. Despite this though, their position was south of Kampar, putting their naval and air landing the 4th Guards regiment in the estuary regiment further south on the Bernam river. face up to the landings, but they were outnumbered With the Kampar position flanked and the Allied the 11th division withdrew over the night battle of Jitra though, all three brigades suffering serious damage. Overall the battle division - but the battle had still ended It was a similar story on the eastern coast 56th regiments defeat the 22nd Indian Brigade and its airbase. The Brigade was ordered to night its rearguard- 2nd Battalion 12th frontier after dark. The battalions commander, Lt. attack, halting the Japanese advance and receiving badly wounded, Cumming then spent more than of troops and get them out of the area. He'd later. Singapore itself reinforcements were beginning with the 45th Indian Brigade. They'd be British 18th Division in late January, but difference at the front. on January 5th General Percival now planned state, Johore to shorten the frontline and would be surrendered without a fight, but airfields in the area until January 14th so Brigade could be covered from the air until planned to fall back to a line of resistance as the last stand on the Malayan mainland. to go a bit wrong. Keen to reach and secure Kuala Lumpur quickly, Tomoyuki Yamashita was pushing his forces regard for his flanks or logisticis. Infantry units. On January 5th, the vanguard of 5th and Slim rivers, where a dug in British force Slim river was considered an excellent location at port Swettenham and Kuala Lumpur. Only was criss-crossed by rivers and thick jungle impossible. Two brigades were deployed in mines and concrete blocks to hold up Japanese but the troops were tired and low on morale- weeks, with little rest. and a spearhead battalion of tanks attacked by a battalion of Hyderabads. Beaten back along the railway line to the west and forced 7th. The Punjab battalion immediately to the tanks with mines, but their strongest position bypassed with relative ease. had cut through the 2nd Argyll battalion too, Japanese troops all over them so quickly. in 11th division was making itself known- the disaster unfolding at the front, let alone of a bridge at Trolak failed, the road south pressed on to exploit it, even as this meant 7.30 they met the 5th Punjab battalion on not get its anti tank guns deployed before inflicting heavy casualties and scattering Without taking any kind of break the 30 or elements of 28th brigade, which were taken Gurkhas were swept aside in a matter of minutes. ignored as the bridge over the slim river resistance from a troop of anti air guns in Still not satisfied the tanks now turned south, up to the 155th field artillery regiment- able to bring its 25-pounder guns to bear It had been a calamitous morning for the Allied group of tanks had rampaged down a single adequate Allied response. As a result, 12th brigade lost two-thirds of its strength. More Japanese casualties of just 150. Any hope and the chances of holding Johore long enough reduced dramatically. After Slim River the Indian 3rd corps was fighting immediately. The Australian 8th Infantry line, doing their best to hold the Japanese Brigade and British 53rd brigades. Initial under Lt. Gen. Gordon Bennett were repulsed Japanese divisions now opposing them was too 20th, and any hope of holding onto the mainland fought by Westforce from January 24th as the evacuated to Singapore. When the 15th Indian evacuated by sea, and the 22nd Brigade was and forced to surrender. Johore to Singapore island on January 31st. was then blown up, and the siege of Churchill's Churchiil's believed Singapore made an excellent attack until help could arrive. 'splendid moat'. But to Churchills consternation very little defensive work had been done to attack from the mainland, either before the to the chiefs of staff that "..the fortress against an attack from the northward. What if it is not to be made into a citadel?" that Singapore was never intended to be a for that matter. The defenses of the naval sea, with defence on the landward side to keeping enemy troops well to the north and Therefore no land defences had been constructed Churchill from getting it into his head that against the odds. Precisely how he expected main reason for holding Singapore in the first artillery fire in the front line, was a mystery. thought there was little chance of holding though, Churchill was very clear that he wanted fighting among the ruins of Singapore city". Officer Commanding in Malaya to organize the Percival had an impressive-sounding 85,000 these were non-combat personnel. This left available. There were 13 British battalions, which was at full strength. 6 Australian battalions had been restored to full strength with the Indian battalions which were the battered were the product of merging battered units 1 was at full strength. There were also 2 from the straits settlements volunteer force. morale from the weeks of retreat they had The Allies did have some things going for amount of artillery on the island. 9 artillery which, despite what you might have heard, were just stocked with armour piercing rounds rounds good for artillery fire. February was where to position his forces. landings was in the north east, in the vicinity Allied Supreme Commander for South East Asia the Australian troops, thought it more likely where the strait was narrower, but Percival fresh British 18th division- would be positioned of the Indian 11th Division. The Australian along with the 44th and 15th Indian brigades, forces to secure the southern coast. The 12th only reserve formation. Across the water, General Tomoyuki Yamashita assessed that the British defences were stronger so decided to land his forces on the western on the western side since that was where they would be an easier logistical task. Yamashita of the Australian 22nd Infantry Brigade. He 5th divisions, with sixteen battalions hitting battalions that would oppose them. Heavy reinforcement would land on the established beachhead, while second landing on the northern shore of the - sentries spotted landing craft emerging out machine guns and short range mortar fire sinking they could make the shoreline. Pre-arranged into the air, but there were so many Japanese keep up with demand. Invading troops arrived quickly became chaotic. The terrain on the and small streams, difficult to attack and could not be maintained in areas that were troops were very thinly spread, to the point friendly groups. This, combined with the destruction made a co-ordinated response close to impossible by individual units. large numerical superiority of the Japanese getting themselves the foothold on Singapore A side note here: you'll notice throughout battling Allied brigades. You would ordinarily a regiment, but functionally these were the in the Japanese and British armies. For a this video on the Historigraph Extra channel. and the bulk of the 5th and 18th divisions a result Percival was immediately forced to Brigade- to shore up the Australians. Despite though, Percival did not move any units from he had moved west constituted only about 1000 It was not enough. On February 9th the Japanese Tengah airfield and driving the Allied forces perimeter had been hastily surveyed in late on the western side of the island. If it held, to work with. it not only didn't hold, but fell apart of December 10th, the Imperial Guards division driving a wedge between the 27th Australian The northern edge of the Jurong line was now the 12th Brigade moved back to prevent the same time, General Percvial was circulating city itself, if such a retreat became necessary. with communications throughout the Malayan got a hold of the plans, they assumed the Unable to confirm over the telephone as all back off the Jurong line, fatally compromising By the end of December 10th the line was lost, the 5th and 18th divisions surged forwards, in the north. some measure of control. He took a battalion created an ad-hoc group known as 'Tomforce' also planned a counter attack to retake the quickly overtaken by Japanese advances. Overnight pushed from Tengah airfield, scything through to take the key road junction at Bukit Timah, By 7.30 the Japanese 18th division had cut as the Allied line threatened to collapse. ammunition shortages on the Japanese side no rail connections to the mainland, resupplying the pace of the attacks slowed, allowing Percival were ordered to retake Bukit Timah, but this of February 11th. island, as the growing strength of the imperial communications fell apart once again. Under back unannounced, leaving the left flank of horribly exposed. The 11th division was forced now have to be abandoned. General Percival sized force from 18th division to fill gaps formation once again. there was better news, as the 22nd Brigade regiments. It was a fleeting bit of good news forwards to occupy the three reservoirs in significant moment, as it cut off the water a ticking clock on Allied resistance. ordered a retreat back to the final perimeter 22nd Australian brigade was down to just 800 18th division ground forwards in the south-west Malayan Brigade. It was slow but steady progress where the Malayan 1st Battalion was dug in Hill'. There over the next two days the but were repulsed each time by a fearsome Lieutenant Adnan bin Saidi. When ammunition and bare hands. Lieutenant Adnan was wounded, the very end. and heavy casualties, the Japanese troops in some kind of retribution for the losses that Adnan was strung up by his feet from Shortly after 1pm on February 14th the same and set about committing an even greater atrocity. 900 wounded soldiers, and had no defenses. wave a white flag, he was bayoneted on the which then rushed inside the hospital and and doctors were murdered, including two that The soldiers paused only to loot the corpses, and forcing them into a building a quarter were nailed shut and they were left overnight day, Japanese soldiers came back, and murdered These atrocities were carried out probably historian Peter Thompson records "the motive and totally ruthless force would be unleashed in ignoring Yamashita's demand to surrender." to come. under British control, the atmosphere was of rome feel, with looting and desertion becoming destruction in the city of anything the Japanese 14th all ships remaining in the harbour left with them. very much on the table. By the end of February had reached the outskirts of Singapore and On the morning of February 15th Percival was the water system totally failed. He and all no realistic prospect of recapturing the reservoirs but to surrender. At 4.15 that day, Percival General Yamashita at Bukit Timah, to agree surrender. At 8.30pm the Allied troops laid - the second world war. In barely two months, lost, 80,000 troops had surrendered and Britain's had gone directly in the bin. It had been British and Allied actors. From Admiral Tom and getting Repulse and Prince of Wales sunk, and others and their persistent underestimation the top was hesitant, indecisive and incapable. and Singapore is of an under-strength, under-equipped and out thought at every stage by an enemy And what of Churchill, whose insistence that led to reinforcements being poured into a He wrote after the war: "I ought to have known."