Alexsandra Lemke: &quot;Grand Challenges in the Science of Wind Energy.&quot; My name is Alex Lemke, and I will be your Today's webinar is the first of a series of to present some of NREL's core wind energy panel of wind energy science and technology and interdisciplinary collaboration necessary wind energy expansion. Back in 2017, a group of researchers and scientists grand challenges in wind energy research, atmospheric physics where taller turbines constraints associated with the scale-up and and grid integration. So without further ado, I'd like to kick things chief engineer, senior research fellow, and Renewable Energy Laboratory. Over to you, Paul. Paul Veers: this hour, you get a little bit of a sense that are yet to solve in wind energy, and do that. I'm going to share the time today with four Julie Lundquist is going to talk about the Amy Robertson is going to talk a little bit to grow them to amazing sizes and scales and Katherine Dykes will then talk about aggregating plants and the problem of optimizing that to the needs of the grid that it serves. And finally, at the end, Eric Lantz, also beyond the physical sciences and looking at there for the social and environmental sciences, of wind energy within a social and environmental So with that, I'll look a little bit backwards. Many of you know where wind has come from. It's been a long process, and over the last and almost undeployed energy technology to down to less than $0.04 per kilowatt hour are at large scales. We now in the US have over 100 gigawatts of And the question that often comes up is that and there is deployment now at scales that Have we kind of solved all the difficult problems, than keep pushing forward? It's been noted that the machines themselves three blades. It operates upwind. They all tend to sit on a tubular tower. And that really, there's nothing left to do. Well, that may be true if we want to stay that presents itself for wind is not to be Right now, wind supplies five percent of the International Renewable Energy Agency and projected that if we can push the technology energy could be the world's top energy source Thirty-five percent is the goal that IRENA We think it could even go beyond that. But what that requires is that we get from wind up to between 2 or maybe 6 terawatts sort of a basis for our energy supply can And if we want to do that, we're going to So to do the assessment of what it's going that we have now, as Alex said at the introduction, the world, hosted them at NREL, and asked If we're going to achieve say half of our scientific issues do we have to solve, what engage, in order to push the technology to The reality of getting to that level also the only player that's going to be changing operates. Solar energy is making similar gains, and than wind. So the grid of the future is not going to machinery from fossil plants. It's going to be a grid dominated by renewables the grid that are different than we do now. And the systems are going to rely on wind So wind will not be expected to be a small grid that already exists. The energy component today is the major thing But in the future, it's also going to provide It's also got to provide those systems services and resilient way. And that is an entire different reality that So if that's the reality that we have to deal wind systems that we have now, which means system improvements, what are the innovations provide that systems improvement, and what fundamental level to enable that innovation? The same is true of cost of energy. If the levelized cost of energy or LCOE is to in order for wind to continue to grow, and what research has to be done to make that Similarly, also, then, for the increase in And these were the question that were laid The workshop was then summarized in a major Katherine Dykes is the lead author on this were brought up by the workshop. It's a comprehensive document, and it's quite It's 160 pages. I would recommend that you take a look at But then we felt there was also a need to and present it to the larger scientific community there are really interesting and challenging to make this go forward. So we took a look at just the research portion with - many of the participants of the workshop paper in Science last October. There was a long negotiation with the editors and we really pressed on them the fact that and focused thing about one scientific issue, is so integrated that you can't really make the others. And in order to actually express the need talk about all these areas. So when we ask the question what are the challenges the order of 50 percent or more of global that said, we can condense these areas into where we're pushing the limits of what's already wind energy technology. The first of these is the physics of the atmospheric operate. The sizes and scales of the machines now being we're trying to optimize and control are in been a particular target of study. Although a lot is known about it, there are The machines themselves have grown to the design and how we actually designed these questionable at this point. We're pushing into zones of the unknown simply we put these machines, and Amy is going to when we go offshore. And finally, an area of unknown is what this how it is we're going to be able to take hundreds them and control them in a way that both optimizes And Katherine is going to talk to us a little But I'll just go over these at a high level turn it over to Julie and Amy and Katherine. One of the things that is also fascinating scales that it spans are just enormous. The energy source of the fuel for this system atmosphere and its global circulations. Moving air is generated by uneven heating, and so on. And these scales then cascade through the that intersects with the actual surface of we have to get down to the millimeter, and the airfoil. And within the machine, we're dealing with manufactured on the 100 meter scale, and yet At the same time, we also have temporal scales The planning that we do for what resource to build and how much energy we're going to So the long scales are critically important yet we have to deal with those tiny time scales and microsecond kinds of faults and disturbances be stable and continue to operate. So it is really kind of an amazing both temporal deal with. Now the global system are those things driven This is a map of water vapor over about a this is not wind itself, but it does show wind systems are global in nature. In order to actually do weather modeling, out, and you'll look at what are called the individual weather systems, and we can look local level. But the wind plants then have to actually the flows are going to actually impact with individual turbines interact with each other. And if you get down and you drill down even flow are going to impact the individual machine its generation. Now interestingly, each of these areas of One of the biggest challenges we have is making and getting it a consistent kind of energy what's going on in the atmosphere. The other challenge is that not only do these impacts the plant, the plant impacts the regional potentially have some sort of impact on the So we're trying to package all of this, and challenge, which Julie will flesh out in more But really, we have these different scales. One of the elements that has been described is a scale level that in the mesoscale models smaller than we would ever resolve the individual average. But in the microscale flow where the wind important and critical to the flow around appropriate mesoscale flow has been one of in the atmospheric science, and Julie will When we try to get from the atmospheric science to look at this video, which shows us coming wind plant. This is off the coast - a proposed wind And it is - shows us mapped in color, if the wind speed, where red is high speed and As the flow, which is now very irregular on extracts energy from that flow, and you see is the wake of the machine. In certain orientations and occasionally one downstream, and that changes the flow characteristics and also the loads in that machine. So to understand this well and optimize it, which are meandering left to right, and as as well. Those wakes can go up in the air as well as So that is going to impact how we deal with And the second grand challenge really is about the fact that the structural dynamics and are becoming more and more challenging. The machines that we built 30 years ago, if now, those blades and those rotors would be So over time, we've managed to remove 90 percent it's more flexible, it's lighter, and it's would have been, and we need to actually deal A lot of the challenges that we've looked that the scale of the blades that we now have atmosphere in ways that change the actual easy to predict, so we're creating exascale us to actually solve for the detailed flows where we might have multiple machines. And then finally that leads us to our third all of these individual machines and packaging we can interact with the grid appropriately. So this is a movie that we've made some years information from the atmospheric science area, natural wind plant. This is a land-based wind plant in Northern The red and blue are, again, the higher and And we're looking at control of that plant we can optimize that plant with actual realistic by machine. And where we need to get to is from individual has done some amazing work in simulating the solar. This is an example. We've taken a week in history where we have period. We actually have the grid loads during that And we can look at day to night variations. The line coming across here, this now is sunrise plants come on. And when those solar plants come on, that it's being generated to where the demand is, And then when sunset comes back in, you see A lot of the dark blue are the wind plants, and those flows then have to deal with that. We'd like to get from this example, which these very high 75, 80, 90 percent renewable going to operate in that kind of a stress So with that, I'd like to turn my talk over science grand challenge. Julie Lundquist is going to talk about that. And Julie, I'll let you introduce yourself. Julie Lundquist: Thank you very much, Paul, and I will try project. So please let me know if you guys can see Whoops, that is not the slide that should So Paul, can you see my screen? Paul Veers: Yes, I can. Julie Lundquist: Great. So let me come back here, and is it in presentation Paul Veers: It is not in presentation - there You've got it now. Julie Lundquist: Okay. So it's interesting that some of the challenges to often be related to our collaboration software. But I'm very happy to have the opportunity Those of you who know me know that I'm a professor Colorado Boulder. I'm actually in a department with atmospheric lot of potential collaboration between different And I've been in my role as a joint appointee my job is often translating what atmospheric turbine design engineers think about the world, So when Paul asked me to put this presentation if you guys have been working on weather forecasting perfectly about how we need to predict wind And so I just wanted to point out that weather the last 100 years. If we look even 70 years ago, in 1950, a lot tables of printed out maps, and people drawing of weather systems, and then move from that about specifically how those systems would And so now we obviously have a lot of computational on the ground in situ as well as data collected gets assimilated into refined forecasting them, but involve a lot of machine learning, But in order to assimilate those measurements larger physical system, and I was very happy effect and things like that. This is an image that we like to talk about we think about the large scale weather patterns an averaged annual cycle. And so you can see that if you care about in the mid latitudes, between 30 degrees north Similarly, between 30 degrees south and 60 But what we need for wind energy purposes this global picture. And so instead, we take equations of motion, are presented here - there are many other We put these models onto a grid. So we slice up the atmosphere in the horizontal, and then we make physical parameterizations explicitly on that grid. So embedded within each grid cell, we probably for how an individual beam of solar radiation in the atmosphere, with cloud particles in in the atmosphere, and so on. So weather forecasting is very sophisticated, renewables, for that matter, is that we need We care a lot in the wind energy world about turbine rotor disc and the top of the rotor So right now, that tends to be around 3,200 turbines of course are integrating winds and However, forecast models were actually designed on predicting surface temperature, precipitation those large-scale weather systems. So we think about that in terms of low pressure quantitative we look at is the height of the So these are very different goals, and I'm that if you design a system for one goal and changes and new research is required in order And so now we're trying to couple the weather the movements of frontal passages, and that with the wind plant scale phenomena that we shorter and faster timescales, shorter spatial see. So I think that Paul showed this animation represents the direction of the wind as it And I like this image because it shows that flow, but then at frontal passage comes through of the wakes, it changes the power produced it changes the loads on those individual turbines. So if we want to successfully model wind plants, and then control wind plants, we have to be which is not stationary, which is not averaged frontal passages and thunderstorm outflows these predictions accurately. Okay, now I'm going to try to move on to the So similarly, we can move upscale and think plants with each other, because if we're going amounts of renewably generated electricity effects of wind plants on each other. So in this plot here on the left, we actually I'm circling right now, and then there's another wind plant on the southwest side. And what we were trying to study in this particular and how the wake that that generates affects And so if you looked at the grand challenges a couple of extensive paragraphs talking about And so here, the wind barbs are just showing The colors are representing the wind speed upwind wind plant on the southwest side. And when we go - we can also look at this at the downwind wind plant. And the darker, angrier colors in the panel at the downwind wind plant because of the And this is basically one month of simulations because it was the absolute worst case scenario, And we can quantify the impact on the downwind percentage of its capacity factor due to the So this sounds like a problem, but if we have behind this, and we understand how wind speed, or the stratification of the atmosphere actually we can predict those strongest power losses, And so what we have here is a plot where we're of the atmosphere. On the right side of zero we basically have On the left side of zero we have nighttime And then, of course, the Y axis is the inflow And I want to draw your attention to when So each dot represents the total amount of any individual hour over the course of the And you can see that if we pay attention to occurring at night and mostly occurring at particular set of turbines. So atmospheric effects are very important. They can be extremely consequential. But if we understand how the atmosphere works, if we can predict them, then we can manage owner perspective, and so on. Okay, so if we want to think about future know about the atmosphere, and this animation you an image of what we know about oceans, layer, which Amy will be talking about, or but that is embedded in the marine boundary about how that behaves and how that interacts So if we look at the ocean and we see how so here we can see the gulfstream, this nice East coast of the United States, those dramatic strong effect on the winds and the marine will hopefully be deployed soon. So I think that I should wrap up here and And just I would like to remind you that more There are a lot of fantastic open questions wind energy, specifically in atmosphere interactions. All right, Amy. Amy Robertson: Okay. Thanks, Julie. Can everyone - can you see my slide, Julie? Paul Veers: You're good. Julie Lundquist: Yes, I can see your slide Amy Robertson: Thank you. So as Julie said, I'm Amy Robertson, and I and I'm going to be focusing on the technology to my experience with floating offshore wind. So before we start talking about the challenges be useful to first talk about some of the So offshore wind provides a significant contribution can see in this picture here of the resource height. The winds offshore also tend to be in general They're more consistent, and usually have to the smooth sea surface that they're flowing As with land-based wind, significant cost of wind turbines, and offshore, we actually wind doesn't have that is related to transportation With offshore wind, you can actually build and then be able to tow out your system to So no transportation necessarily needed over In addition, offshore wind is located closer most of the population lives, and where the So offshore wind is already being done to and they're using what we call fixed bottom These systems mainly look like what we think They're monopiles where we have the tower the sea floor to attach it to the sea floor. So that's the majority of what we're seeing As we start to move into larger or deeper structure, like these four-legged jackets, for that deeper water depth. But really, to get the contribution from offshore to move into even deeper water depths, and anymore to try to fix a offshore wind turbine The structure just gets too large and gets So instead, we move to what we call these floats on the water, and is kept in place anchors to the sea floor instead. So floating wind right now is an emerging We only have a few pilot wind farms in this we need to overcome in order to get the cost reality. And so here, we're going to be talking about need to address. So what we're doing with floating wind is We're bringing together offshore structures So we have had modeling approaches to design bringing them together, the same theories these systems no longer apply, and that's dynamic characteristics that these systems presently have. So if we look at this video - hopefully a floating wind turbine, you can see that to excite the system, as is the wind. And since you have this structure that's being two excitations become coupled to one another. So the way the wind is interacting with the is interacting with the structure, and vice So we have this coupled problem where the different from what we've traditional seen, and innovate these systems needs to be modified So to really design these innovative floating levels for commercialization, we need to fundamentally these systems and be able to model them accurately. And I do have a video, a short video in here I just wanted to - that's my own video, I just wanted to emphasize that this dynamic scale turbine is sped up and for an extreme than what you see in a real system, because But it helps to show those dynamic characteristics Transition to a slide displaying aerodynamic Okay, so digging into some of the specific of these systems, as you saw, we have this So therefore, for the design of the systems a turbine that can work with this large motion. So if you think of historical land-based systems, that is no longer viable offshore, when you So that's one area. We also need to understand and develop a control So if we have a system moving around, and that's going to actually create interaction And when we first start putting wind turbines of the first issues that we encountered, is on a floating wind turbine, it creates a destabilizing system will essentially flip over. So we need to make sure we can design control And in fact, we actually have an opportunity Since those control systems can interact with stabilize the system than without it. And that could actually lead us to even more steel and can lower costs. As we said before, one of the ways we will size of these machines, and as you can see to even larger systems offshore. Again, because of the lack of constraints 50 megawatt machines offshore, so really large. But as Paul was alluding to, when you start interacting with the air is very different And historically, the models that we've been the aerodynamics of these smaller machines. So we need to start adapting those for these In addition, the added motion that we've been moving in and out of its own wake. That means that the traditional theories such that we're going to have increased interaction So we do have projects that are trying to And so you can see on the lower right here looking at using measurements from a wind going to move that wind turbine like it's aerodynamic models and whether we can accurately it's on a floating foundation. Next, looking at the hydrodynamic side, we and gas in several ways. First, we have a wind turbine now on top of That turbine is going to create this high a large thrust force trying to push that wind Therefore, we're going to have to design a that can resist that overturning movement With offshore wind, we're also moving into to have novel mooring systems that can be We also have different design drivers. For oil and gas, it's all about designing For offshore wind, we have some of our largest So we have this mix of design drivers from need to consider. The risks are also severely different for There's no real risk - high risk when it If we lose a wind turbine, there's no risk There's no large environmental risk of creating We just simply lose the system. So the constraint for offshore wind design rather trying to find a cost effective solution. So we really need to adapt the methods that the right level of risk that we have in this and gas approach to designing these systems. On the modeling side, for these floating structure, than the large oil and gas structure you see. We have different dynamic characteristics. And we find that we sit in actually this kind theory. In some of our past work, we found that our loads on these systems because of these issues We've seen that in OC6 phase I we have about across different conditions of these floating And for some industries, say again oil and percent under-prediction because you have risk, but for floating wind, we need to live and therefore we need to eliminate this level There's another - a number of hydrodynamic combined nonlinear and irregularity of sea And also, as we go to these more optimized structure, and we need to get the right hydrodynamic Finally, we also have challenges regarding wind/wave climate for these offshore structure. As Julie was mentioning, when we go offshore, as on land, and we have limited measurements We do have wave measurements, but we don't in combination, and it would be great - that's what those characteristic are offshore. And with that lack of information and these Julie was also showing is going to behave than they would on land or even for a fixed And we also need to consider things like these breaking waves in the US, sea ice floating, interact together and change the loading behavior. So I think that's it. That's where I'll end. Thank you. I'm sorry. I think I went a little bit over. But I do want to introduce the next speaker, And she's going to be talking about the optimization together individually and synergistically Thank you. Katherine Dykes: I'm going to try to now put my presentation Is the right screen showing, hopefully? Amy Robertson: Yep, it's good. Paul Veers: You're good. Katherine Dykes: Okay. So yeah, I see a lot of familiar names on Nice to virtually meet up with you guys and on grand challenges. I'm certainly not the best person to present to be part of it. So for those of you who don't know me, I was moved to DTU Wind Energy, where I lead the elasticity and controls research, but also So grand challenge three is all about everything all the way to how do we actually support of the future, and what are the research needs So probably many of you in the audience are system integration and grid technology and as Paul spoke to in his presentation, we had thinking about the research needs in wind driven perspective, which aligns very well which largely had power purchase agreements goal was to generate as many electrons as But as wind starts to participate in these or whether it's capacity markets, how much correlation with the types of revenue that And so this is kind of the future outlook, how the capacity credit and potentially then in revenue in a forward capacity market decreases A snapshot of PGM just through 2017 showing renewables in the system, especially wind, markets are starting to come closer together. And so Paul spoke to this. In the future, there's speculation about how Will we have an energy-dominant market like Even so, even in an energy market, will a year when - or the day or the hours where So there's a lot of concern, industry is quite power plants are profitable as we look to And then, of course, not just from a profitability issues that a lot of the grid integration physical inertia in the system, as we have can we maintain the reliability and the stability And there's a lot of speculation and a lot such a system, kind of based on brains and But these are of course outstanding research And the other point then is if we're going the overall grid, it needs to be supporting from very short term stability to operations So that kind of motivates the grand challenge variable renewable grid system, based grid of these wind plants to perform in the best resiliency, reliability, and affordability So that was the background, and then we broke So there's a whole lot of research, and NREL advanced plant control, so moving beyond every but looking at coordinating controls at a power, but also do other things as well, which Also, looking at the whole shift from this lots of massive inertia to this system of and power electronics kind of providing the And yeah, even going to the level of forming system. Yeah, and following from that, wind can provide And how far can we push things? And underlying all of this, one key thing was really prominent when we talk about grand analytics, and how we can - in order to smart about how we're using the data and all So, a little bit on wind farm control. So this is a very, very active area of research of a world-leading group of researchers that looking at how we can improve power and energy wind farm control, how we can reduce the loading to improve overall reliability, and more and through these coordinated wind farm control So one example that's gotten a lot of press Paul Fleming, Jennifer King, and others are at wake steering. How can we increase power production by deflecting turbines? And that work has been going on for some time, of that in the commercial scale, but there's on that topic and related wind plant controls And now we're trying to think about, okay, side of things. What about the grid control, and how can we And I don't have, unfortunately, the video actually done already some years ago now at were actually coupling the flow modeling side at how you can actually do active power control And so another area where there's some things need to do. And then the kind of broader wind grid integration Wind Task 25, has really been looking at pushing percent renewable systems with variable inverter-based So looking across different cases and what been really developing quite a bit, and there's upcoming wind grid integration workshop in And I think there's also some papers that led by - in collaboration with colleagues But looking at how to challenge some big - some inverter renewable energy based system, stability, market operation. So how do we address all of these challenges energy generation in the grid system? And then, yeah, coming back to finally the massive amounts of data of course involved level. Now we're talking about expanding that to How can digitalization really help us realize systems? So there's a lot of, of course, work, which surface of on this front. So in closing, future grid with large amounts new challenges. I'm sure that's not a surprise to this group. There's a lot we're already doing with advanced do and need to do on this space, especially And we really need new tools, models, technology interaction than we've ever seen before between the grid community. And I think NREL is really at the forefront we'll help to solve some of these critical So I think that's my last slide, so I, again, so I'll quickly turn it over to Eric so he Eric Lantz: Thanks, Katherine. I'm assuming folks can see my slides, but case. Paul Veers: It looks good, Eric. Eric Lantz: Thank you, Paul. Yeah, so it's my pleasure to kind of round that we wrote about in the Science article there. My talk is really going to look at how the time and attention and mental cycles to engaging I like to start off with this particular graphic that we have that we're really blessed with in particular. It is a variable resource, but it's really The wind truly is blowing somewhere. And it was interesting when we first published some briefings for the press community, one have enough energy to do this from the wind. And it's kind of funny, because those of us that's actually a really easy question to The quantity of resource is really, truly In the US alone, the simple math is something potential in terms of power. Today, we have a little over a terawatt of our current electricity system needs. Capacity factors are a little bit - they is we have plenty of resource. But from my view, at least, you know you've they pose the question of can we actually or offshore in order to get to the 50 percent the Science article? Then you know you've got somebody that's really on for the rest of my talk here this morning. So with that in mind, there's really four One, the cost and benefits of the deployment Quite understandably, this can become a bit that are impacted by wind energy. Second, to achieve a high penetration wind people, and wildlife will increase, perhaps Third, the physical scientists and engineers plants need to extend their thinking beyond We really need to think more broadly about the traditional metrics of cost and value. And finally, I'll spend a few minutes just exchange and communications among the many One of the things that I really find exciting it truly is, and I think as we think about futures with very high contributions from exchange and engagement just really compounds that at the very end. All right, so in terms of the distribution life cycle air pollution emissions for a variety on some of the traditional regulated air pollutants. And obviously, no surprise to this group, from a life cycle air pollution perspective. However, air pollution is a relatively regional centers. There are of course a few exceptions to this. However, it really is in general, on average, wind plants in urban locations. We site wind plants in rural areas. So that air quality and air pollution mitigation benefit the communities that are actually Not surprisingly, similarly, from a life cycle looking across a variety of electricity generation But we all know that within the policy debate climate and climate change mitigation, the Not only do - are countries hesitant to might not be adhering to the same standards, advantage, that plays out at the community So when you think about the concept of free well, yeah, I think climate change is a problem, I'm not really convinced that they're going the actions of other countries or other sectors Going beyond those sort of traditional benefits energy diversity, jobs, land lease payments, wildlife. These are results from our 2015 Wind Vision The results themselves are less relevant to that we often think about with respect to And unfortunately, in my mind, they actually Things like energy diversity is often touted. There's this sort of long term hedge value against future fossil fuel price volatility. But that's a benefit that is kind of abstract, power producers, owner/operators of plants. And so it's hard for that to be a tangible a wind project. Jobs are an interesting one, too. That's probably one of the most compelling But even that, it's not uniform, how those In some cases, a project might bring in a to build the plant. They might be importing their O&amp;M services center close by. And with respect to land lease payments, you have landowners who actually live in a separate of that local land lease payment as well. And so there's always complications and nuances, just is not a super straightforward conversation. Shifting gears a bit to talk about the interface people, this slide here - I'm going to go how the footprint of wind energy could change of modeled scenarios. This particular plot shows wind plants installed This was about 65 gigawatts serving about Do note that the size of the dots are scaled of the smaller installations in the northeast country are a bit hard to distinguish at this But this was the picture in 2014. Zoom ahead to 2018. Year end, we were approaching 100 gigawatts our national electricity needs. We're now beyond the 100 gigawatt mark, but Zooming further into the future, we have a This was a business as usual scenario from It gets us up to about 260 gigawatts of wind in 2050, with installations really expanding You see a substantial buildout in the East, interior region, and increased deployment of Western, mountain, and Pacific regions, the country. If we think about more aggressive or more here's one where wind gets to about 500 gigawatts, And again, you can see that footprint just the country, including even significant portions scenarios. The last one I'll show here, which is the I believe it was a low cost wind and solar constraint within the scenario. I don't recall the specifics. But it got us up to 630 gigawatts of wind, and virtually every portion of the country some form or another. So clearly, ignoring the expanding footprint We really have to think about these impacts. Just amplifying that theme even further, these On the left hand side, you have the habitat of interest. It's not comprehensive, just a handful of You can see them listed in the fine print Very few areas that are impacted by at least On the right hand side, you see the same wildlife as radar consideration, and the darker colors competing uses for a particular piece of land. Obviously, the circular areas kind of amplify Those are the radar installations. But even the darker shaded regions are areas to residences or people. Just zooming in on the bat problem in particular, bats are relatively absent, so any area that's about bats. There are significant swaths of Texas and but if you think about those images I showed half of the country and really just that buildout a significant consideration that we as a wind to grapple with if we want to achieve the are envisioned as a basis for the Science So how do we start to extent our optimizations This is actually something that's already What this map shows you, and this is a work you take the plant densities of the existing to try and extend that across areas that are power density of existing facilities and how scales. In the plot on the right hand side, you sort densities when applied across the entire region. And just for reference, the mean there is per square kilometer. In the image, though, the lighter areas show The darker areas show relatively lower power And what this shows us is that plant designers considerations, property boundaries, population wind energy resource alone or the construction wind facilities. And my contention would be that we have to sophistication of doing these types of things Another example of things that are getting need to be increased and really built upon impacts. In this case, we've looked at land area that If you had an existing wind facility in that, of the map here. And if you had a bat issue in those localities regime so you had _____ curtail below five year, something relatively simplistic, you gigawatts of wind energy potential from a NPV range. If you instead though employ a smart curtailment of risk or really tries to minimize the impact the same benefits in terms of reduced mortality, of that impact, put those areas back into economically viable once again. So these are the types of solutions that need attention. And again, extend this beyond the sort of So just to wrap up here, the - not only social and biological scientific communities, We really need strong interactions between mentioned, some of the data science community, that are going to be really essential to getting hope to see out there in the 2050 timeframe, So with that, I'll conclude, and pass it back Thanks so much. Paul Veers: I think if you'll give up control, I'll turn know if Alex was going to moderate questions, to type them in the meeting chat. We can certainly respond to them. I think we have lost Katherine by this time, She had to move on. In Denmark, it's quite late. We'll take some questions if there are any. Audience: Paul, this is Jason Fields. I had a question for you. Paul Veers: Sure. Thank you. Audience: intended to be kind of a call to arms to the may not be directly engaged with wind energy With the publication of the - the journal any uptick? Have we been effective in achieving that goal Paul Veers: open for my other authors as well. A little bit hard to get some metrics on that. I'm not quite sure where we'd see that. Certainly, there's been growing interest in I think what we have to do, though, is move publication which tried to make the case simply are going to be some critical progress yet and flesh out those details somewhat. So we're working on a series of follow-up the nature of those challenges, somewhat like a lot of material that we simply did not have that out to the wind community first, and So I think there's still work to be done in I think simply publishing the Science article allow us to kind of take that further and scientific uncertainties? We know there are uncertainties, but what impede our ability to do innovation? I think that's really one of the key elements, unknown there, but the fact that it's unknown be an improvement, that might be a new and So I think those are the kinds of things we're And Julie is involved in an innovative to I'm working with Amy on one to push forward Katherine is working with people from the engaging perhaps with Paul Fleming and Jennifer outside, to flesh out that third grand challenge. So we have much left to do. But thanks. Good question, Jason. Audience: Thank you. Paul Veers: to that specific topic? Eric, I think maybe you could talk a little I think one of the biggest criticisms of the talk about everything, and that we did limit and did not reach out into biological and So that initiative is still yet to be completed. So could you say a couple of words about that, Eric Lantz: Absolutely. No, that comment is spot on about sort of There are actually a handful of efforts underway that will address this concern or issue in We have some of those actually within our at this question of land use and how different the opportunities to deploy wind both from a market potential perspective. There is also activities within IEA Wind that expect that within the coming months we'll topic that will make that extension and connection. To the broader question that you raised, Jason, think that we've opened the door to a lot within wind energy. Certainly, some of those are within the wind kind of speaking to the choir, so to speak. But I think that there are a lot more - there's out to other parts and portions of society of wind energy. So I'm pretty optimistic that the long term Of course, as Paul mentioned, it's really think about the conversations that we're experiencing of the grand challenges paper, I think there's Paul Veers: a pitch, we're right now organizing the next which will be hosted at the University of But the intent there is really twofold, and up today. Katherine talked about the increased need and the grid integration, and that conference between the traditional wind energy research And it's also going to host an increased look to how we push forward with the technology. So keep that on your calendar. It's a dialogue, it's a discussion, and there's together and enhance that dialogue at the Alexsandra Lemke: in from Julian. Julian, do you want to unmute yourself and Audience: Sure. I hope you can all hear me. Paul Veers: Loud and clear. Audience: So Amy discussed this issue of safety factors it's more about costs, we should be able to economical to do so. And I'm just reading Julie's response to me There's this huge variety of types of inflows I mean, I think to simulate all of those would time. So I guess for me, it's kind of hard to envision because there's just so much variability that or _____ into our predictions. So I'm just wondering, sort of looking ahead, could the research community have towards stakeholders and modelers? I really hope that makes sense. Paul Veers: one, but it's right in target with what Amy that when we look at the loads and turbines, we use in order to make sure that they're factors, we also have built in some sort of So - and those things were calibrated with 20 and 30 years ago, which were much, much So the nature of the atmospheric dynamics we built in place were built around assumptions the atmosphere. So the experience since then has been that track record of the industry, of the machines failing or surviving, they're doing quite So there is a strong need or a strong desire that's working well. On the other hand, when you go offshore, we flow conditions, and Amy talked about some not only a larger machine, but it's also a And there is a need for those offshore systems is a need to keep them as safe as they need So if we're not going to continue to leave to try to optimize these systems to the actual to have to reexamine that set of load conditions unneeded excess material and excess cost in means we have to characterize that flow field. In terms of the second question you asked fact that these are not human life critical, in a different category of structures, and The discussion goes on among the community be, and the difference between ensuring that versus the realization that we may want to up to a certain level of safety or a level to say that we know that over a 100 year time to hit at some place or another. They're not going to hit everywhere, so I to do this, but I have to buy insurance for storms will hit, and we can then replace what storms. Others within the community would say that relations issue here, and if we have a storm hurricane happens to hit our wind plant, that as a whole. So I think those discussions continue to go as Eric said, begins to look like a social So these things are never quite completely And I would just - I guess we have other But Amy, if you had other comments to make, Amy Robertson: I think it might be good to go to the next wind technology. Alexsandra Lemke: Yes, Christian, do you want [Crosstalk happening] Alexsandra Lemke: Christian, do you want to Amy Robertson: Or it was - yeah. Alexsandra Lemke: read the question. You want to go ahead and answer it, about deeper water? Amy Robertson: Christian, are we hearing you Audience: Yes. Oh, whatever, which one you prefer. Amy Robertson: Go ahead. Audience: Yeah. So I was thinking about these offshore - floating of space and - when talking about offshore Do you think that the floating technology it can overtake the existing technology? Amy Robertson: I think - we've done multiple studies in I think we see that floating wind technology I think it's just due to, as you said, the floating wind. I mean, there's a lot more issues that we talked about the complexity of the dynamics We're adding a lot more things we need to But our models do show that we are progressing. We're trending downward for cost. We do have some pilot plants in that area. And our expectations are kind of in line with Around 2030 we're expecting to kind of be There's actually some opportunities we have fixed bottom, that if you could design your it out, you have to do a lot less work at You don't have to transport these large cranes So if we can figure out these challenges we even a lower cost point than fixed bottom And in the US, yeah, this is really important. The US is one of the unique areas in the world, deep water offshore resource. The whole West coast will probably be 90 percent need to overcome, but I think, yeah, around We have some pilot projects now, and we're Audience: Thank you. One quick thing. So you're saying that by 2030, it will - I reach an LCOE, same level as fixed bottom will be - or governments will be eager to I understand that the LCOE will go down, but forward to implementing this kind of technology? Amy Robertson: there's some advantages and disadvantages Environmental challenges will be different As you go out in deeper waters and have the I think for the social acceptance, having are deeper are going to be advantageous to readily seen from the shore. We do see that a lot of local governments because there's a lot of ports that have been The shipping industry has become more large A lot of the smaller ports no longer can be And this can help revitalize I think a lot Audience: Yes. Thank you for your time and your answer. Yeah. Alexsandra Lemke: I wanted to express my gratitude not only speakers today. Unfortunately we did run long, but ultimately, have specific questions, to email me, and and we'll get right back to you. So without dragging it on any longer, we really us today. Paul Veers: Thank you very much, Alex, for moderating Look forward to your next webinar.