Most of the stuff you But shipping containers They hold something else, too: power. And China is all in. That's why they've been investing massively in ports. All over the world. China probably has stakes in a port near you. They're creating a network. And it goes beyond trade. This is a story about sprawling ambition... and a plan to dominate the seas. But let's start small. Let's go to Kribi in Cameroon. It's a coastal town known for Now it's also home to a just down the coast. This is what the coast by Kribi looked like on satellite images about 20 years ago. Not too much going on. In 2011 a Chinese state-owned construction company started building the port with the help of the Cameroonian government. You can see how quickly it pops up here, along with a highway, that connects Kribi to the rest of the country. China invested over 1 billion The idea, as outlined in this a key trade hub for all China promised fireworks. And locals say the port has And it isn't just Kribi and Cameroon. China's port promise is They lend you money, you hire a Chinese they quickly build you a port .... and that connects you to global trade. China very efficient strong state-owned enterprises. China very efficient, So that's basically what the That's Wang Yiwei. He's Director of the Institute University of China in Beijing Also China needs those markets. I think that's a mutual benefit. And in return, China promises no matter what. By the way, China's involvement For example, it can vary to a minority stake. But the pitch has been successful in the Global South. Especially in African countries. Out of around 160 ports that 53 are on the African continent. Another reason why African countries is - well - the last few hundred years of Western colonialism. China still calls itself a developing partner - as opposed to the West. But China's deals with serve China's interests. Like in Kribi. Because as we'll see, each of these ports is just one small part of a bigger strategy. Enter: The Belt and Road Initiative. By building roads, railways and sea ports, China wants to connect the world in one of the most ambitious infrastructure projects ever conceived. When the Belt and Road Initiative supposed to connect China China's ancient Silk Road. Now China is tapping So we needed to find And those countries are also very of Chinese modernization. Like the Chinese slogan goes, &quot;If you want to get rich, build a road.&quot; Here's the network China has built up. The orange lines are overland routes. The blue lines are maritime routes. In the last few years, China has part of the network. And that strategy makes sense: cross the world by sea. These are the main routes they take. And these are some of the world's most vital chokepoints: ships with goods important to world trade need to pass through here to get from one region to another. Now take another look at those ports. They give China pretty crucial access. Which is important for the country as the world's biggest exporter. The real question to my mind infrastructure projects that leave as an owner, as an operator in foreign countries. This is Isaac Kardon. He is a China expert at the His research focuses on This use of economic coercion against actuality of withholding certain the trading network itself helps give by which it can accomplish that. Meaning: China has gained In 2022 China was accused UN human rights council. There was a proposal to talk - just violations against the in internment camps. Here are the 47 countries in the council at the time. These countries said yes to talking, these countries said no, these abstained. Note that a lot of the African countries in the council voted NO. China has invested in infrastructure projects in some of the countries that voted YES and ALL of the countries that voted NO. The proposal was rejected. Of course, it could have been a coincidence. China's influence has increased, into those countries. They even learn from Maybe they prefer more like that's their choice. One thing is for sure: China's global network - with Now that China has built that trade network, it's anxious to protect it. Let's look at one of those key chokepoints we mentioned before. This narrow strait between Africa and the Arabian Peninsula is called Bab el-Mandeb. The Suez Canal is on the other end of the Red Sea here. Around 12% of world trade usually passes through here. And you guessed it - China has a port here. In the small country of Djibouti. China also has its only official foreign naval base here - right next to the commercial port it has stakes in. China said the reason for trade from piracy. And it's not the only country with a military base in Djibouti. Take a look. By the way, the US base is around 13 kilometers from China's base. But we'll get to that rivalry later. So many countries have set up on the strait by Djibouti... ...in part because Most recently Houthi rebels from Yemen have been targeting commercial ships in the Red Sea. Those attacks have been so intense... ... that they changed global trade routes. Many ships are now avoiding the Red Sea altogether. And taking this, much longer route, to get to Europe. Along with Russia, China reportedly even struck a deal with the Houthis to avoid their ships being hit. The UN says disruptions to increasing all over the world. A worry especially for the Chinese. The country is not only a big resources like oil and minerals There is a risk to China of the would really cause significant And political rivalries There is this perception in China to US naval interdiction, to essentially cut China out So it's no surprise that giant ships from China Meet: the People's The navy's official mission is to &quot;safeguard China's overseas interests.&quot; That includes securing trade. Military doesn't just Military also means providing In the last few years, China has been China can now rival the US in some already has a larger fleet if And it's building even more. Plus, there have been rumors about potential new naval bases beyond Djibouti for a while. The most likely spots for them are - you guessed it - some of the overseas ports China is involved in. The US research lab "AidData" found eight ports that they think could become Chinese military bases within the next five years. Remember Kribi in Cameroon? Well, it's on the list. China is the port operator there, the port is deep enough to harbor big warships, ...and China and Cameroon And even without ports like Kribi The People's Liberation Army this network of port facilities. All of the ports and virtually any dual-use facility because naval ships commercial ship does, in particular ability to rest their crews. And there's more. The US is concerned Chinese involvement in ports could block or limit US commercial - and military - access to them. And that China is using ports to spy. Like here at the Port of US intelligence said a new planned secret military facility. Just to put the US accusations military base, and the US has... well, see for yourself. The bigger the bubble in each there are there. In the Chinese They don't have anything But what they have is China says it has a different foreign in other countries. But the ports certainly expand The existence of this port network political influence that's associated more permissive international forces to be a kind of regular security environments where they We don't know how the use of this port network will ultimately play out. The US is watching warily as China expands into what they perceive as their backyard in Latin America. One of the new ports: Chancay in Peru. It will supposedly slash shipping times between South America and Asia. A Chinese shipping company will be is why US officials have repeatedly But China's port promise As they expand their port network, willing to harbor their ambitions. gpersonalcordula_johannis_dw_comEuksdsYyeLlItjLa05mHI3YBtYcj5bcZFoxWmoPcaXQiMg?e=bkAvcR