Pouring smooth concrete Work currently underway is the process of creating a dam structure called a dam, which will prevent erosion of the riverbed. It became clear that a tributary flowing next to the main river where we were working could cause erosion of the riverbed. To address this risk, the riverbed will be dug deeper and concrete structures will be created to block the tributaries across the river. The concrete currently being poured will be used to improve work efficiency when creating formwork for the structure. Because it does not require structural strength, it is also called &quot;throwaway concrete.&quot; Concrete pouring completed Formwork assembly We will assemble the processed formwork on top of the concrete that was poured the other day. The formwork is fixed with nails to the battens fixed in place with concrete. Use reinforcing stakes to keep the formwork vertical. The formwork will be connected using the same process. Drill holes in the connected formwork and install plastic cones for reinforcement. Attach form ties to the bolts on the plastic cones protruding from the underside of the formwork. Steel pipe installation A wedge-type backing plate is used to tighten the form tie and steel pipe. This measure prevents the formwork from warping or shifting due to the pressure of pouring concrete. Installing the separator This separator is a metal fitting used to maintain a constant distance between opposing formwork pieces. Once the separator installation is complete, assemble the formwork on the opposite side in the same way. Installation of the facing Rounding off the edges of the concrete will help prevent it from chipping. Formwork reinforcement The rebar inserted into the concrete is welded to the separator, reinforcing it so that it can withstand the pressure of the concrete. Formwork assembly completed Concrete pouring Concrete is then poured into the assembled formwork to form the structure. Vibration is used to distribute the concrete evenly and ensure that every nook and cranny of the formwork is thoroughly filled. Once the concrete has hardened to a certain extent, the surface is finished. Concrete pouring completed Dismantling formwork Removing the plastic cone Repair holes in plastic cones. Dam-type structure completed Work will be carried out to backfill the riverbed that was excavated to create the structure. The drainage pipes that were installed to prevent the construction area from flooding are removed, and the work is now complete. A tributary flowing next to the main river can be seen flowing alongside a deep dam-type structure. This has resulted in the main river side being unaffected by the water flow, creating a disaster-resistant environment. A large amount of weeds growing on the side of the road Local residents have been mowing the grass regularly, almost free of charge, but the financial and physical burden of this work is becoming greater. This time, we will implement improvements to alleviate such concerns. Weed removal Weeds that have accumulated in waterways will also be removed. Weeding is done Elastite placement By inserting it between the concrete when pouring, it prevents cracks. Pouring weed-proof concrete By covering the soil with concrete, you physically prevent grass from growing. In addition, concrete can prevent erosion caused by rainwater and prevent soil from flowing into waterways. The concrete surface is roughened to prevent slipping. Roadside slopes that were overgrown with weeds were covered with concrete to prevent the growth of weeds and make management easier. It also reduces the accumulation of sediment in waterways, which are important for growing crops. From now on, local residents will be able to maintain beautiful slopes and waterways without much effort. Zhun Bei Gong Cheng Water tank Water source connection Water hose connection High pressure washing A high pressure stream of water is sprayed onto the dirty surface. The force of the water stream removes dirt, algae, mold, etc. When removing dirt and build-up, the high pressure water stream is held at a right angle to the surface, which effectively loosens the dirt. Progress It's back to the glory it had 10 years ago. We will proceed with the cleaning work. Xi Jing Wan Liao We hope that this dramatic contrast between before and after has demonstrated the power and effectiveness of high-pressure washing. Heavy machinery transportation Loading heavy machinery Transport heavy equipment to designated location. Heavy machinery loading and unloading Attachment parts installation work Disassembly of each part Installing the long arm parts This is an attachment that extends the arm of a hydraulic excavator, allowing it to work farther and deeper. Refitting the bucket Long arm parts installed Grass cutting work We cut grass on the river bank slopes to improve visibility and make work easier. Crane operation Hanging the wire rope Lift the heavy machinery and lower it to the river bottom Crane storage Create a path for water to pass at the edge of the river This prevents water from stagnating, ensuring that living organisms have access to water. Removing tree branches that have piled up in the river Excavating and removing sediment and weeds that have accumulated in the river Sediment accumulated in rivers impedes the flow of water, causing water levels to rise and increasing the risk of flooding. Therefore, removal work needs to be carried out quickly in preparation for the rainy season. Remove excavated weeds and soil At this site, sediment will be removed from a one kilometre stretch of river, with the work continuing for several weeks with repeated removal and transport. This time we have introduced part of the removal process, which is an effective means of preventing disasters in Japan, where flooding is common. We hope that through this video you will understand the role that civil engineering works play in keeping us safe.