The Lebanese are now on the brink. An oriental joke claims that they are Perhaps it finally snapped in August 2020. A blast, like a coup de plunged into chaos after poor governance and corruption. Just two days after the disaster, the French President visited Revolution! A revolution! In support of the Lebanese people, he who, despite everything, held onto the country out of chaos. I had come as a volunteer when I saw the presidential guard arrive. I thought it was the Lebanese Please listen to us! Please, Mr. President. Not a single leader in the country has There are still victims trapped under still alive! Why such injustice? We are abandoned, Believe me, listen to me...- We want names! I'm here to help you, directly. That's people. I'm here to put to change the system and And to reset the system for you. It's not the politicians! They have no sense of duty. They've just been taking our without ever giving us anything in return. We're fed up. We're exhausted. All they do is try to turn to divide the Lebanese in You know, your anger Vive la France! Vive la He took me in his arms. It soothed me. Really soothed me. Vive la France! Most people have lost hope. But I haven't lost hope in Lebanon. This film is about a generation and wants to believe that Lebanon Overcoming the knot of problems that plague This is the story of a at the crossroads of all the It's like a journey to To understand the five plagues state resignation, You can find every Here, it's like a zoo. And a zoo is better organized. At least you know where the But not in Lebanon. Liliane is 24 years old. As a political science student, she and her parents gave up everything to in the country. But Lebanon is going through one of the Liliane's family, like many She had to give up her Hello ! Well, I'll have some cheese. No, actually. It's too expensive for me. In the end, I had yoghurt. How much is the ham? This one, the Piara? Give me the prices from highest to lowest. The Piara is 90,000 pounds. Exactly. I'll keep the ham for holidays. The eggs, on the other Anyway, prices change every day. Excuse me. How much are the eggs? 16,000 Lebanese pounds. It used to be 4,000. Sometimes less. The mini-market owner is a little ashamed To justify himself, he ends up showing of importers fixes the We have to pass on the price increases, otherwise we lose money. At service stations, the Hyperinflation is blocking the import holding up business, exacerbating the vicious I've been waiting since 6 pm. Up I'm a lawyer, I don't have any petrol. come and go. Look at the failure and humiliation. What kind of state treats people like this? What humiliation! Just look at it! The rich buy with baksheesh the right to fill up their luxury cars with their dollars, which The social climate is becoming I swear I've been waiting for over an hour. We're going to stay here and It's to avoid the country going up in starting with the French, to convince Lebanon's leaders Today, it's the Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian, who is visiting Baabda, the presidential palace. Lebanon is a fragile political system that reflecting its division between This is the formula used First, Michel Aoun, who represents the Then the President of Parliament, who represents the Shiite Muslim third. The Prime Minister, also known belongs to the Sunni The most recent, Najib Mikati, visited the This trinity at the pinnacle of power between the communities. In practice, however, it of billionaires and clan chiefs This means that there's a form in their own sphere, in the process of putting when you see the state of decay of longer possible. I think Monsieur Macron has underestimated the cunning of Lebanese politicians. They didn't become Presidents They've been in politics Senior UN official and advisor to Ghassan Salame Lebanon and knows his They are used to and in particular presidents in a hurry. They know how to manipulate them like that. We know there are ways out. there was $11 billion to help rebuild Lebanon. But at the same time, there were demands. Lebanon had to get moving to ensure that Unfortunately, as I speak, these Lebanon is not a system We are well beyond corruption. We're in is captured by the political class and a partial redistribution of this This corruption is at the heart of the of the biggest state On Hamra Street, once comparable to have closed down and the big international names have needs of the old middle classes. I've got some clothes to sell. Is this your first time selling clothes? Yes. Do you decide on the price? I'm sure they're all top-of-the-line. That's a nice brand. Then a great price. This one has stains Not at all? Yes, it's really stained, even with the Are you sure it's a stain? I think it'll do. Sixty thousand. Three I'll give it to you in cash. 60,000's good. You can buy lunch with that. Three sandwiches. Yeah, Three sandwiches, but Contrary to popular belief, the Lebanese from Beirut, nor from affluent backgrounds. Liliane, for example, comes from a modest south of the country. In this fragile nation, counts for at least as That's nice. I've never worn a veil in my life. It's not my vision of religion. My mother wore it for a very long It was a personal She wouldn't wear it because But if she feels like it, she can. This is the Central Bank. There have been a lot of It's Lebanon's main fraud center. The man whom Liliane and the majority for their economic debacle is Riad Salame, head of the Central Bank Speculation, influence he is seen as the symbol of I've been used as a scapegoat. People think that the And when there's no government, it's to divert all of Libya's misfortunes onto the caricature. What is a caricature is that we don't have the power to carry reforms, we had this is not just the fault of the Central Bank. Like many young Lebanese, Liliane joined the October 2019 movement who wanted to overthrow this But the revolution fizzled out. What's left is a revolt that is Like today on the airport road. Don't let any cars through! No one gets through! Right now, it's not exactly revolution, but we're getting close. We've reached a point of no return: us anything. We called each other and said Today, our greatest dream Since Michel Aoun became president, People are queuing up for food aid. 230,000, shame on them! Look at Wake up, Lebanese people. We've suffered Covid, corruption, economic and the people took to the But alas, the divided politically The hope of Lebanese unity But once we're all really starving, I'm sure we'll unite, and then Lebanon The first head that of seeing knocked off In addition to mismanagement, Riad Salame sums estimated at over a According to the Pandora Papers, he is also one of the Lebanese leaders This is very untrue. Investigations are The height of this slander is the before becoming governor. The NGO Sherpa says that you have 150 That's not true, as the Same for the 400 Switzerland mentioned I have nothing to do Despite suspicions of fraud, the IMF billions of dollars, but on one condition: the Central Bank However, Riad Salame, still Governor, against him in France and still refuses to show his accounts. I think he's afraid of being killed, because if he opens the accounts, we might find some of his But we'll also discover just has benefited from the system over want to open this up? I think he has not to open the Central Bank's accounts. How can I fight this system? Do I have to flee Lebanon? Or I end up thinking that my destiny is to stay and get The proverb &quot;Lebanese We love life in spite of everything. Contrary to what the media say, we're not just a depressed, On the contrary, government and, at the party, sing and dance. But economic collapse is far from A hostage of the Middle East, the country a region where 18 religions, nine states and barely 500 kilometers. In the south, insecurity with Israel is A state of latent war that Hezbollah will never give up its weapons. Khalil is officially a journalist, but as soon as he crosses the yellow southern Lebanon, Militancy has priority over everything. Life here is calm and Here's a scale model of the Al Aqsa mosque, the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem. It's to show our solidarity Lebanon has not The border between the two patrolled by UN peacekeepers. This road runs along the border. The Israelis built this wall. But where is Hezbollah? Even the Israelis don't It's very important for Hezbollah fighters make sure that we know what they're doing. It's all part of the Look, this is a camera installed They have spies and they also I feel we will free this land and won't stay--they're foreigners. Deep down, we feel In this openly hostile climate locals and tourists on both sides As do the Israeli army and Opposite is Israel. Settlers come from all Is that the army? Yes, that's the army. Upstairs, there's a military base. And down there are the civilian houses. But anyway, I think they're all armed. Hezbollah, or the Party of God, literally, was born in the early '80s, when Over the years, the Shiite militia and largely took credit for the Israeli One after the other, the last positions Lebanon were evacuated during the night. and convoys of armoured A little later, the first supporters of Now Lebanon's political power, Hassan Nasrallah, remains listed as a terrorist organization Many accuse the party The main power in Shiite Islam spearheads The country is a battlefield. The country is a battlefield. Basically, the battle is and the Iranians. Basically. But there are other less important players: Israel, Turkey, Syria, the Europeans. They're there too. Iran has had perhaps $50 or $60 billion to overthrow Hezbollah which, as its Secretary General says lives, eats, fights and equips itself And Hezbollah is part of Iranian military power in the region. A bit like the French Foreign Legion, It's part of the French army. According to the Americans, Hezbollah's targeting an Iranian army But for a dead man, Naim I've prepared myself for martyrdom It's not surprising that false information my death here and there. More than the assassinations, it's the Qassem blames Washington for. The American position, their sanctions against Lebanon have some three years. The US says that these But as we have no bank of our own, in practice, these sanctions weaken contribute to inflation. Perhaps these sanctions are harming the difficulties, as Qassem claims. But ironically, they have little effect on such as its gasoline the image of a good administrator and far less corrupt than the others. But it's the fighting that is The last was in summer repelled the Israeli A war for nothing on both sides, though perceived in Lebanon as a armies have suffered against Israel. Hezbollah is so proud of this that it has its 2006 jihad. This came as a great surprise to them. Israel had no idea that the And today, the resistance hides nothing. in occupied Palestine. I didn't fight. I work in journalism. But belonging to the whether you have your You can fight in different ways: culture, weapons, the media. Even the way we educate our But I'm not against taking up arms. If Hezbollah asks me to The Americans are targeting including blocking its Khalil is furious at having My Facebook account was Why was this? Simply because I mentioned and that of Hezbollah. But Facebook is just an But opposition to Hezbollah Within Lebanon itself, some see the party as an a religious militia that uses its huge against Israel as a pretext to at the risk of raising As in this confrontation in the middle into the explosion in the port which Samy Gemayel, leader of the Phalangist himself on being one of the last The presence of Iran and Hezbollah here, not only undermines Lebanon's and independence, but it also represents Hezbollah's objective is to control Lebanon and impose its way of to impose its ideology, its vision of perpetual war, a concept of violence, a concept of disrespect for others that you see today in Iran. Nephew of an assassinated brother of a minister also shot dead, Samy Gemayel carries the A party accused of one of the worst from 1975 to 1990. It took place in the Palestinian in the southern suburbs of Today, his party wants to turn the page pro-Western camp in Lebanon. But the cycle of violence is far from over. In Lebanon, you have political who continue to say no, we don't independent and sovereign Many people have died because He was killed in 2006. Listen, if it's not Because Hezbollah, the small pro-Syrian militias, they're all one group. They're the ones who killed Hariri. They have a mafia network that is enormous, Assassination of the emblematic Indirect responsibility for the and even large-scale drug trafficking, Samy Gemayel does not hesitate to take against Hezbollah. I don't feel threatened, You get in your car don't know if you're That's just the way it is. You know, between 2005 and 2013, there were 14 political including two that targeted our party. How do you respond to and political assassination? They accuse us of such things to damage our reputation. Yes, we are a resistance We are armed and will continue to be armed. Yes, that is our conviction. But when it comes to drugs, we believe that trafficking Despite its martial posture the Party of God is also particularly when it comes to maritime border where promising natural gas A godsend for southern Lebanon Over there is the The area is teeming This same area is the subject of But these negotiations do not involve between Lebanon and Israel. And I would add that Hezbollah of agreement with the Israeli authorities. If conflict remains the it's also because the mystique of Islam since its inception. This exaltation of martyrdom, celebrated during the Ashura ceremony, can, in its extreme logic to suicide bombing. This approach has first Shiite, then by extension It was here, in these southern Lebanese Hezbollah perfected its tactics of As you can see, there are Here's another. Martyrdom is the way of life. Martyrs sacrifice to live with dignity A veritable state within a state, Hezbollah manage all aspects of its members' lives: school, health, retirement. The party's faithful in exchange for total loyalty. Khalil is keen to demonstrate Hello grandma. How are you? This is Khalil, Mariam's son. Oh, my darling, how are you? How old are you now? Ninety-five. May God prolong your life. I'm not in great shape anymore. No, you'll live a long life. You'll She's my aunt. Besides, you'll come and God willing! Do you remember going to Palestine Of course I remember. The Israelis still threaten the border. My descendants? They've always considered Israel an enemy. Shall we carry on fighting? Of course we are. Let them die! We'll trample them underfoot. This is his son Rodhor, who died a martyr. The resistance gave him a car packed The Israelis took him to Markaba They even smashed his skull. They hit his skull so hard that it split over his body. The Israelis came here, they took the whole On the shelf among the knick-knacks, family members who fell at the where Hezbollah sends its Hassan, my son, is the martyr. I'm proud that he's a martyr. Are you ready to fight the Israelis? Do you know how to use an assault rifle? Good for you! This is my little cousin, Rodhor, Do you like Hezbollah? When you grow up, if the Israelis I'll shoot them. I'll fight them. Why would harm our country. Good for you. He's a good boy. He's very mature. Further north, the Bekaa Valley is This fertile agricultural valley in Roman times who built the famous The Bekaa is also home to Caught between the mountain ranges the opulent valley also illustrates momentthe resignation of the State, particularly in the face of the problem civil war just a few These exiled Syrians make up the 1.5 million people for every Their presence is destabilizing a concerned to avoid Greater In the streets of the Bekaa, giant portraits of its accomplice, another key member of the The Lebanese state tries to There are no large camps in the international NGOs. Everything is done to make them invisible. The Syrians' shelters are scattered they plough for Lebanese landowners. Very often, it's the women and children cheapest workforce. Abdelfateh is only 12 years old and already works like I work harder than the other children. Those in the field only When I'm not at school, It was in the family shelter, in the camp, that the boy started after starting out as an The truth is, I hurt a lot Well, mostly me. I hurt myself a The most difficult thing is the razor. Because with the slightest false I've been working for a year now. I've deprived myself of a lot of If I don't work, my whole It's already happened several times. morning, noon and night. When I earn money, we For beards, I charge 10,000 pounds, Just enough to buy bread. Abdelfateh's parents fled after their home was destroyed They and their five children But Jumana, the mother Refugees are not allowed to And Abdelfateh's father explains that he of odd jobs as a handler. In Syria, I was a manager in a It was called Miam Miam. In Lebanon, I can hardly find any work. That's why I put Abdelfateh to work. I know it's wrong, but I have no choice. I can't do anything, nor can my husband, But even the little ones will have to A few days a week, Abdelfateh He goes to the premises Beyond, which is doing what it can to Lebanese social services. Hello Abdelfateh. How are you? Hello, classroom? Yes. Please have a seat. The NGO teaches basic So, how do you like school? Perfect! Bravo! Created to combat the exploitation of third of vulnerable Lebanese minors, misery has driven many But helping Syrian refugees The country's Christian strongman, and former Foreign Minister, would like to dissociate Lebanon's Lebanon is being asked to do things such as naturalizing We are suffering the consequences of If Russia and the United States don't agree on something that belongs to Lebanon, Iran, we pay the price. Between Syria and the Between Israel and our region, we pay small country that is in one way or another linked to all the region's A weathervane for some, a master strategist the paradox of a Lebanese political despite accusations of Leader of the main parliamentary Lebanon's secret reversals of alliances. He pushed his father-in-law, a former sworn enemy of Syria, to make a pact with Hezbollah, and thus the Yes, I can at the same time be very from Hezbollah and much closer to the West, France with Hezbollah in my country as I am with this country because So yes, it's easy to do Geography expresses many things in Lebanon. For example, the Bekaa Valley, a powder controlled by the Hezbollah militia, is only ten kilometers the Christian strongholds With a few twists of winding roads and furnace of the plain to the misty peaks of the Mount Lebanon range, This is typical of a country barely the where, as we say, you can ski in the in the afternoon. A country where all the challenges of fewer than 18 religions are with community rivalries which are at the root of It's a complicated, sectarian, So we mustn't get caught up in a single many guts, so many things. It's impossible to make It's impossible to have the Lebanese elite Once in power, it's impossible. It's a closed system. A bit disillusioned, Walid Joumblatt For four decades, he has one of the branches of Shiite Islam who represent only 6% of the population. Fierce warriors, these Druze are few the country. Especially since XVIIe was the first to establish the the beginnings of the Lebanese nation. Its capital was Deir El-qamar, or the convent under the moon, is one on the southern slopes of Emblematic of Lebanon's mixed culture, churches stand side by side with a Druze There's even an old Marie-Jo comes from Deir el Qamar. She wanted to bring her young to show him the olive trees she inherited. My grandmother lost her when she was still pregnant with my father. As she didn't want to be a financial for her parents, she decided to sell pay for my father's education. That's where his whole academic and little plot of land. In the Lebanese logic Marie-Jo continued the family tradition There she met Abdallah, who holds a doctorate in international The two Lebanese are now But they insisted on The couple made a a scourge that is its denominational system, i.e. the rights depend on his In practice, therefore, the and mixed marriages are a headache. Marie-Jo's family is Maronite Christian. Lebanese people often go abroad hypocrisy in the Lebanese system, specifically at the level of the ready to recognize and register It registers them in two minutes, But if the civil marriage is concluded Lebanon, five minutes from the So that's the taboo strategy, in fact. allowed, but you have to do it in secret. So we got married in Beirut, in the middle We also wanted to social recognition, not Abdallah and Marie-Jo's union was the in Lebanon. In the famous Sursock since ravaged by the port explosion. Their marriage aims to break a interferes in every aspect But the battle is far from won. Their recognized by the Lebanese administration. If the couple had children today, We're not in conflict with the State, want to apply the law. It's an administrative obstruction, a marriage as such is valid. It has legal effects from the moment this contract has generated and and we registered it with the Ministry haven't given us our family record book. Opinion campaign, TV the two lawyers procedure against the So you're not officially Thank you for your question, because this misunderstanding. With their marriage, the mixed couple are tackling confessionalism. Born under the Ottoman Empire, this confessional system who settled in the country signed at the end of the First World War to share the Middle East with England. Under the colonial mandate from 1920 the secular French Republic, which inaugurated a to favor the Christians, its Civil servants, and later ministers, religious affiliations rather than for their skills. To the Christian third of the country, To the Sunni third, the and to the Shiite third, With a pinch of ministry for the Druze and other small groups. That's not fair. Why not give every citizen the same chance and make every citizen responsible. According to the According to confessional and sectarian not a nation. It never has been. Lebanon is a state which has been a refuge and has failed to nor did it seek to do so. People have and I think that this is to the right of individuals in Lebanon To free themselves from In Lebanon, everyone is armed, a veritable permanent This confessional system was the main civil war until the Taef fossilizing the status quo and You are herded like cattle and the confessional system has If you have a nepotistic system where by bribing part of the population, this part of the population They will choose people who The economy collapsed largely because can't attack it, because of confessionalism, or largely to point the finger to a certain leader or official, there's always a card that says no, why a Sunni? Why not that Shiite, And it's this game, this confessional of clientelism and corruption Lebanon today is at the heart of chaos. The situation is likely to get worse. We're not optimistic about the short term, but the fight must go on for a But the long-term hopes of those who beach clubs that made Lebanon's reputation don't mean much when their In Tripoli, in the north of the It's as if the city concentrates The great Sunni city is regularly Syrian civil war and by the Abandoned by public services Tripoli prefigures a worst-case In the tug-of-war of regional influences nation, it is to Saudi Arabia or the that the Sunnis of northern Libya are It has to be said that failure Even the former middle classes go to I brought two boxes with me - No, just one. Yes. When we started work, we But with Covid and the economic crisis, the In nine months, we're up Right now, the government sits back Without the associations, things We could even reach a Rising prices and are forcing businesses For example, Ahmed's bakery, in the poor Bab Al-tabbaneh district, which oscillates between I've been working in this bakery and I've been there for fifteen years. Because of the crisis, At the bakery, when my day was over and all I had to do was there was always one or two I brought them home and the children were happy to eat them. As a father, when I come home and find ice cream and I can't buy it for him, I'd rather be dead than Why did I bring him into this world? What more can I do? I've looked everywhere for work, but today, it's impossible to find one. How much is the bag of bread? Can I have two bags of bread, please? Sure. Two bags. Do you think the price will go up I have some experience as a baker. Do you need employees? Given the situation, we're Don't forget, the otherwise bread would cost five times is no longer subsidized, that I hope you find a job soon. May God protect you! Everyone will tell you that my There's already a lot of incivility. And a lot of the young people, end up taking drugs. There are many problems, security is of leaving this city. When they grow up, I'd like my children through what I went through. When I grow up, I want to fix cars. He repair cars, God willing. I want to fix babies. I want to buy a Lamborghini Ahmed puts on a brave face and But there's no electricity, and the empty fridge is used as a cupboard. In the depths of misery, Tripoli becomes every day. It was yesterday, right here. A fight in which the army arrested someone. They do everything to make and let the brother kill his cousin and the cousin kill his brother. It's going to backfire on them, continue to get worse over the long term, the revolution will It will spread until Today, it's the rumor of a dead child asphyxiated in hospitalfor that sends the crowd into the streets. Revolution! Revolution! We want to eat and drink, More than the famine itself, it's the poor as the flip side political system that's Go ahead and charge! Fuck you! For the moment, rioters and But how long will these soldiers, going to take their orders from Beirut? In the Taqwa mosque, Tripolit's the Imam preaches Here in Tripoli, everything's But Sheikh Amir Raad says he understands the There's no doubt that today we've stage indeed. And it has got out of hand. We sent letters to the people, telling with the army, and a letter to the army brothers, your clan. No, don't fight, understand. Together, you must wage a against those who have eaten In Lebanon, there is no reliable census religious groups. so as not to threaten the between Sunnis, Shiites and Christians. But the Sunni Muslims of the They are convinced that they In truth, there's no doubt that Sunnis Prejudice against Tripoline is nothing new. That's why the accusation of being They want to make Tripoli secessionist, The influx of weapons and even jihadist the worst. But some notables still want For example, former MP Misbah El-Ahdab, so proud to inspect built during the Crusades which bear witness to this It's a city with a Sunni majority, yes, conservatives, but far from And it's a city that's completely completely different Because if Tripoli transformed into something as we've seen elsewhere in the Middle East: Homs, Hama, Aleppo, etc., it's not whole of Lebanon's diversity. In Misbah's view, the disarray in North sinking country. It is yet another facet of the The strategy of chaos is one that has to try and appeal to the West by saying, the country's stability. What would you like to eat? French fries. I'll make you one. In a week, you can eat And if at the end of the day, we buy them, because they're But we don't eat meat. The price of meat has We've gone from 15,000 a kilo to 170,000. If one day I can't secure a mouthful of ruins and turn everything upside We need a new government. A new government that we can choose. Yes, of course, with new This is no way to live. We're the living dead, we're already dead, but we can still stand on our legs. If I have the opportunity to I'll leave with my family, not alone. God bless Japan for He's a bit tired, but we Lebanese If you shake him, he'll go away. You can shake us all you want, In the midst of chaos, what Undoubtedly the valour of a people with intelligence, humor and courage. If, to hear them tell it, the Lebanese they are nonetheless a people who stand up