[UPBEAT MUSIC] Rachid: Welcome to the I'm your host Rachid Finge. And this is the podcast where we talking to the people who work whether that's your Pixel or one of our apps like the camera. If you've missed any check out one of our previous from this season or the first one, podcast to make sure you Now today it's about you might not even It's so integral to your phone that It's why we call a phone a phone, than making calls. What's even funnier to me, the team is actually called the Dialer team. It's a true blast from the past. And yet, the Dialer team works So let's hear what they're up to from podcast. He is the Group Product Please welcome Jonathan Eccles. Jon, welcome to the Please tell us a little and how you ended up at Google. Jonathan: Awesome, yeah, So I lead the product team My role consists of working across building a lot of great things for-- in some cases, just making sure that perfect, but in other cases, really beyond what anyone thinks is ways to protect you or ways to make your that's something that Rachid: Perfect. And how does someone become a product important apps on a smartphone? Jonathan: It's a funny journey here. I've had a weird obsession with And this is the highest-reach is people talking on the phone. It's the thing that billions do no matter where you are in your socioeconomic status or anything. For me, it started, actually, and then making music And I got to be an audio geek from that. I got into monetization of I was working at Pandora for a like, how do people listen when content, when it's podcast content. I moved from there actually, for conversational AI. But again, the case do people use conversation and where there's music or video. And then that landed me It just it's funny. Of all the things I've the one that stands the most exciting and interesting. And just greenfield when that it's 150-year-old technology Yet under the surface, there's to just do things with how people and how people consume audio, is possible yet. Rachid: Today's guest works on making Jonathan Eccles calls which comes in handy product manager of the Dialer team. Johnathan plays guitar, was a music instructor for a while. In the past, he worked on that professionals use to He then ended up at Pandora As Jonathan will tell does many more things than just making In fact, it sometimes does you from getting nasty spam calls. And then there are many more advanced some that you might not I hope you'll enjoy our conversation. So why is it exciting that's essentially 150 years old? How are you shaping the future? Jonathan: There's two main paths that One of them is-- calling is ubiquitous. Calling is this incredible has built into their daily And it has to work. And the nice thing is back decades and decades and a really good at working. People could take any analog phone, It was really reliable. It was really fast. And we need to hold ourselves of perfection for the basics. You have to be able to And you have to be able to be in a call. And it has to work incredibly well. It has to be reliable. It has to be performant and fast. And it has to feel So that's sort of path one is, we've But path two, which a lot of people under the calling experience, where calling, as a behavior, feels feels like something that's annoying, feels like something where you And we look across all these are there ways we can And that's with great design that and in a lot of ways, new ways to solve problems that people And we're doing that in a lot of things, so that's just never a problem trying to make your business trying to make your personal these are all things that supercharge for us in our future. Rachid: I bet no one at Bell, 150 AI is going to be used in phone calls. So let's talk about that and particularly from unknown callers. On Pixel phones, in many countries, you the phone, ask what a call is about. Why do we have that feature? And how do you make it work? Jonathan: Yeah, the history of is very interesting. It's one where you can take this base people report as spam and building machine-learning numbers are spam and these ones aren't. But we did call screen because learning on identifying phone numbers. What we wanted to build was and any of those suspicious that could facilitate that And what I see, looking forward, is And I think it's possible. And I think it's possible sooner If we look back to the it's this thing that It allows your assistant to ask someone, and I'd like to understand And it takes transcription And then that turns into One is manual call I don't have to actually I may not want to talk to. I can just see what a decision about whether to pick up. And that's something that's available and around the world. And then there's a special flavor And that's something allowing you to keep before you even knew it was ringing. And we can try to make a decision by sounds like a robocall, for example. And that's worked incredibly well. It's something that-- it handles and is just beloved by Pixel users. Rachid: Now in my Pixel phone, my screen basically turns red. It will tell me, this could How do you know that? Is that also machine learning? And then what does it train on? Jonathan: Yeah, so when we're looking across the And we have a lot of magic learning to make decisions about that. And that's looking across what users are And we're also using to be able to figure out But we see a lot of just more and more, especially can we do more with conversational AI? We think that will unpack a lot about-- as an interesting comparison, email problem than it was 10, 15 years ago. And that's because there's an idea private way, you can have your email that's coming in and make a decision. That's a space that's really because it's happening in And it's happening in real time. So we wanted to figure out, are and actually achieve something that there's a level of understanding whether phone calls are safe? Rachid: Since you mentioned Is there any synergy between at Google, so maybe within the Dialer on how to fight spam? Do engineers ever talk to each to fight spam? Jonathan: Yeah, yeah. And folks definitely-- the There's shared methodologies. I'm not nearly enough of an smart things they're doing But I think what's really there is this shared interest, across of spam and user safety, really try to band together to think through how to Rachid: Now another topic is a topic where I didn't team working on it because mostly working on making it look good. But you also work on So on Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 reducing background noise on the side can hear them better, maybe of storm or something like that. Could you tell us more about how Clear Jonathan: Yeah, so hats off, It's folks in that team who have Calling and the AI behind that work. So what I'm saying is really in And it solves something an important problem for people, I want to hear the conversation. It's simple as that. It's what I mentioned before of, the But there's some pretty that can happen under the hood of With Clear Calling, you able to live entirely on the device. So it can happen with real It can happen by keeping everything on and processing what's in the audio, through models that try to that typically happened during calls. Maybe it's the sounds of dogs and actually also models that this is the sound of human voices. And what's interesting here is, There's been noise canceling for a and things like that. But that only works in a out what's ambient outside of a This is actually another layer of that, and things do get through very often-- truly identifying the that are what should intentionally So it's a really exciting thing. I use it on my calls all the time. It works incredibly. And I think the team and good job building that as a feature. Rachid: Any clue why it's only on Pixel for example? Jonathan: Yeah, so in this Pro have the latest chip, Tensor 2. And what's happening here some pretty heavy-duty processing needs around performance and latency. And that's something that is We want to make sure, they're releasing with high And so that's the place where Rachid: So basically, this I presume, to learn what And so how do you go about that? For example, last week we works on fall detection on Pixel Watch. And to my surprise, involved who had to fall in order to So how do you get all the right and make sure that you of noise that might happen during all Jonathan: Yeah, at a high in looking at the types of and creating these types of So you might imagine cases of, that we might make and say, OK, let's find ones where there's a bunch of people Let's look at cases where there's And the interesting thing so often, noise canceling works there, in one place, in the background. But if you have someone that's and shifting around, and and the profile was changing, that's do some interesting magic, where hey, you have a stream nearby. There's pouring water on pebbles. And that's a very notable sound. And if you can actually train you can actually say, OK, well, let's or moving around the forest or whatever. And the stream is moving around that can figure out, that's a stream. I know what a stream sounds like. I can get that out of the phone call. Rachid: Amazing. There's some other things where For example, calling numbers, where you get these lengthy And Pixel can actually Jonathan: Yeah, yeah, there's a that calling a business feels painful. And a lot of folks just assume that's Customer service, yeah, I'm going to I'm going to wait for to get read out, press 4 if you And those are all things that people But they aren't asking for a solution. Yet we're providing one, solving a lot of these and doing better and better at it. So some things that we do to are at the outset of a call, we can we look at, as you're is the time of day you're calling the type of thing where there's Kind of in the same way that Right? Jonathan: The next phase is, if of those phone trees-- be really lengthy and really painful-- well, we do two interesting things. One is we transcribe it for you and say, oh, I think I but which one was the one where number-- is that 2 or 1? You can look back. And not only that, you can actually if you were pressing 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5. Rachid: On the screen? Rachid: Right. Jonathan: So that idea is, how can we into a graphical interface, as Rachid: Amazing. Jonathan: That becomes And we take it a step further, as we for a set of numbers we're not just transcribing real time. We actually know in advance what So if you were about to through all those different maybe we can shrink that to 30 seconds. You say, OK, great. Here's the selections. I press 3 here because And I see the next ones already. And I'll press 5 here. And that's going to take me to an agent. Voila. This is a nice, And then the last element that moment of being put on hold-- maybe you broke through you finally said, OK, talk to an agent. And then it says, OK, you're And you say, oh, do I have Do I have to be waiting by it for And that's what Hold For Me solves. With Hold For Me, you can have your own You can put your phone And when an agent comes on the line, you've gone off hold. It's able to tell them And then your phone will ring So these are all these that happen, when you're on that just annoy the heck out of you. Rachid: Amazing. I've never actually-- because I'm Do you have any clue of what while they ring my phone? Jonathan: Oh, it's But I don't-- I can't Pretty much, it's a very letting them know that the thing talking is an assistant And just hold on one minute It's the type of message that is helpful | I think over time, we see people will need to get used to We think there's a lot And the more helpful it is, I think the comfortable in those conversations. Rachid: So speaking of the because we described use today, depending on where you live. What are things-- and I know some things that you are to create a new decade of making phone Jonathan: Yeah. So I'm incredibly excited that we're experimenting and thinking through ways to problems for our users. In particular, we think we've done around spam, both for our numbers, and also the work we've Screen and automatic Call Screen, we think there's a world there It's early days. But that idea of multi-step, could open a lot of of creating this protective at the front of every incoming call. And we think that with AI used in the right types of conversational, that there's a future where you at the thought of your phone ringing. It should always be a moment important or something delightful. Nothing should ever bother you. And at the same time, you like you're ineffective or We think AI is what takes And stay tuned. This year, there'll be in the world of solving that I think are going Rachid: This definitely And I'll let the listeners if they can figure out That definitely sounds Now Jon, we always with a top tip for our listeners. [JAZZ MUSIC] What can they do to get the most Jonathan: I'm going to Rachid: All right. Rachid: Sure. Jonathan: --just because First tip is, everyone It's super easy in your settings. It's just one little flip of a switch. And it will just make And it's super cool. Jonathan: It's an easy one. Everyone on a Pixel 7 and 7 It's great. And then tip number two is, everyone Call Screen on your Pixel phones. That's a feature with-- Automatic Call Screen's but it will just change your experience as many of those moments of your on the other end. These are super helpful things. And it's something that if you've got to do. Rachid: Well, those And definitely can It's absolutely great. Jon, thank you so much for joining It's been great to learn and that there is a long future Jonathan: Thanks so much. It's been great to be here. [THEME MUSIC] Rachid: Thanks again to Jonathan I truly have a whole new by Google app and the So even if phone calls have been it's clear that they're here to stay. We'll see a lot of We're not done yet with this season So do subscribe on your Maybe it is Google Podcasts. And you'll hear more from us very soon. So thank you for listening. Take care. And talk soon.