Hey guys, now most of you know the I mean, you hear it everywhere, also overcome the challenges in their lives. an underdog who everybody thought A shepherd's boy, he came and did it I mean, they had fierce warriors - And then here comes David. Fearless. Even his own father did When he let all his other When Samuel would choose the new king [1 Samuel 16:10-12] So here, God chose David to become But Saul was still king. of the Philistines, they came to have war Their champion, the giant Goliath. [1 Samuel 17:3-4] Now how tall is that? That's around 3 meters. Imagine you stand in front of a mountain. He wasn't just tall but he was he was very strong. I want to mention something interesting here. from the people of the Anakim. mighty man of all the giants, you would know this. It's a very interesting series that I'm covering. giants - and here's the thing. who who grow tall and there are medical problems But these giants were strong. [1 Samuel 17:5-7] His bronze armor alone was 125 I mean, you can try to put it on and on ... walk for miles towards an enemy... them and ready for a battle. [1 Samuel 17:8-11] So this probably wasn't just a normal giant even. blood in his eyes, ready just to to kill because the whole of Israel, I mean, they must have had Strong men but even they were afraid [1 Samuel 17:24] Now you know what happened next ... David know how that ended for him. But there's about the story or that they miss But before I explain that to you, you And that is that this was not just a battle and the Philistines - this was a battle between face in their lives. [1 Samuel 17:42-43] So Goliath cursed him with his gods, know that these gods were demons. Paul also says in 1 Corinthians 10:19-20: Go watch the series that I started on the In that video series I explain my experience with of how men started to worship demons thinking the flood and after the flood. [1 Samuel 17:44-45] You see, David did not fight through He fought with God's power that You see, he did not have self-confidence. He had God confidence. You see, David had no fear. that God's spirit is on him, guiding his own will. His own emotions, his own intellect, his soul. We talked about this on my channel a lot, Now David knew that God's spirit is on him giving How do we know this? that David acted through the spirit? David to be king. [1 Samuel 16:13] Now, this is amazing, because not only did not only that, but he ran towards Goliath. This is amazing. the most powerful men in the army of Israel, David had no fear because of God's Spirit in him. How many times have you buckled because of fear? your own life? How many times have you buckled not through the power of the Spirit? Verse 48 says: Most people miss this. was in the Spirit, acting in the To face him. Fearless. Verse 49: Wow, this is amazing. face a giant Philistine, but you will Many obstacles. Neither can you fear it. through the flesh. You need to face it with If you are a real child of God. their challenges, their giants, because of fear do that, those problems will just stay there. Not only that, they might grow, and there So later on in life you'll just be carrying buckle under the pressure. giants the moment they surface. The moment you fear, you need to understand that That's when you are starting to act in the flesh And you have no excuses because today all reborn believers, when we accept Jesus His Spirit so you have the Spirit of God in you to [Acts 2:38] And listen to this: And you will - not maybe - not probably - You need to understand this. when you come to repentance, when you truly accept a new creation, He gives you His Spirit. [Ephesians 1:13] So how do you do this? You need to be weak. such a degree where you deny yourself, your own It needs to be under the power of God. It is only when you come to the end of me - it is only when you come to the end of that where He can start to work through you. the Holy Spirit work through you and guide your everything you say, everything you do. to accomplish God's plan and purpose for you need to accomplish it. power through the Holy Spirit that is in you. [2 Timothy 1:7] Satan, on the other hand, he uses In my new book called Bold Pursuit, a 90-day devotional for men seeking the [Psalm 27:1] Wow, this is amazing. Just like you and me. Why? He did what God wanted him to do. So let me ask you, why if you are a child who wants to help you, who wants to guide you, who who wants to lead you in everything you do challenges in your own power? So little and tiny. One day you're here the next you will be gone. We are so small but the God of the universe and it is the same spirit that [Romans 8:11] Now, if you want to learn more how to grow deeper mature Christian .... to learn what it Oh, there is so much that we You know, the Bible says that we have already know what they are? We cannot stay babies in Christ. We need to grow so that we can become stronger. I'll add the information for you in watch these videos here. And always remember - that God Life is short, so please do not waste yours.