All right, we're checking so fast that you literally It's Skate 3. Yes, so, uh, store with a brand new skateboard, &quot;Gray, looks like you're going pretty Let me tell you something, Oh, concrete. [groans] I'm pretty sure part And I have found a way to get infinite speed, and so I shall terrorize and leave my DNA all over the place. Yiddily dee, [laughs] Okay, let's get infinite speed. 41 miles an hour is not good enough. I have found the land This roadway is perfect for practicing trying to break the sound barrier on a skateboard. Look at everyone passing me. They're like, &quot;Gray, you're so slow.&quot; Okay, so what you got to do is find at just the right time, you'll know [laughs] and that's just minor. Oh, I think I just lost and the full flip onto the forehead. What do we get there? 88 miles an hour, it's not bad. I'm not happy until I get I've only been skating for a few minutes and it already looks Hey, first try. I really want to--- [groans] I need to jump a little bit earlier, but I could do the full fish backflip, secondary backflip, and there's my best calamari impression. We got 94 miles an hour. Still not into triple digits. The other thing is, I can do this, like, anywhere I want in this entire board, and so I'm going to make this happen I want to catch up to that kid down there. There we go. All right, imagine-imagine you're skating-- Oh my God. [laughs] Oh, no, 109 miles an hour. I was going to say, imagine this 52-year-old balding science teacher passes you going like 108 miles an hour. I'm just trying to figure That's that's what I'm spending my t-- All right, I need to do this off the-- Oh, Jesus. My incredible speed was I mean, my back was technically broken too. It almost happened again. Anyway, what I was gonna say so I can launch myself The things I'm going to do to this skateboard have got to be felonies. I can hear the skateboard crying It's like, &quot;Please don't work.&quot; No, yeah, thank you. [laughs] Out of the way, plebs. Yay. Ah, yes. Any time you seen the full skull being broken, you know it's a good day. Okay, I found the perfect place. Right here. If I can get this to work I should be able to pretty much reach the sun. [laughs] I lost-I lost oxygen up there, I had to bail. All right, time to take the, uh, I like-- The taxi guy is probably like, Well, I'm probably going to die, so wherever gets me there the fastest, And then he'd be like, &quot;Do you want to die fast And I'd be like, I want to die at lightspeed.&quot; Then he'll be like, I'm just gonna drop I'd be like, &quot;Why?&quot; you can die at the speed of imagination.&quot; Welcome to the library All right, that was not so good. It's always great and then have something work in a game and it just won't work with me. I think the best thing I could when some patron walks by, and then I come I lost both of my ankles and my lower back, although my guy looks like someone [laughs] who would probably have lower back problems. I love how no one cares this is happening. Dude, at least pick up your garbage. Do you see the guy in the blue hat? He threw the thing into the trashcan [laughs] Yeah. [laughs] Oh, God, I'm so sorry. Just over here at the shark shack, is going to take a bite out of my rectum. Ah, tobogganing. See, I have real skill. All right, or I could lose all I think what's really impressive is the amount of height that you can get not glitching, and then compare that to the amount I felt like I was going to die All right, so here's the plan. This place looks really strong All right, it's time to shoot the gap. [laughs] [screams] My chins. I felt like my original and all that happened was the gap shot me. Get ready, youngster, because yiddily dee, 52-year-old youth pastors Come on, baby, [laughs] Okay, I think I got the entire skeleton All right, and ye-- [groans] Oh, God. Someone's gonna see some bloodstain &quot;What happened here? I thought these railings The only thing that the railings I feel like if I-- I was gonna say, I feel I can caterwaul, like, feet over my head All right, give me the bail. Ah, it happened so fast. I'm not gonna lie, I feel like this is faster I'm waiting to go so fast and the bottom of my body You wanna see something cool. Ooh. It's my Xmen power. [laughs] I love how when you get to be my age, Remember, everyone, eat plenty of iron. Like your-like your dad. There's actually a really good backstory. This is how I lost all of my hair. It's mostly because-- Oh, wow. I thought I could land that. I was haplessly mistaken. I was gonna say what happened was so many times that his body and more aerodynamic. He's lost most of his hair These kids don't even I was traveling to the moon like so. That was amazing. I don't think I broke one single bone. Okay, I need to do this into traffic. I wanna hit one of the car [laughs] Your shrubbery tastes delicious. 111 miles an hour. I don't even know why I'm using because I can go faster than the car now. It almost seems like he's speeding up when he found out that I'm back there. He's like, &quot;Oh, no, no, it's great.&quot; I love art. See, I have come to a place and it is here that I will probably Look at me, I'm a skater. Actually, all I really do is try All right, here's the plan. This whole area not only has good jumps but it's also like entirely downhill. We're going for the full send, That's my plan. All right, you ready for this? Hold on, and jump, grab, [laughs] I feel like I would've lost All right, now here's your plan, and squeeze through that tiny hole Woo, yay. Oh, God. Oh, I didn't really use my right I love the taste of blood The fricking railing got in my way. Hey, railing, uh, suck it. The railing's probably like, Okay, so I need to face more up losing most of my skeletal Hey, and there it is, the full human torpedo. What's amazing, Okay, I 100% feel like we can get Here we go. Oh, yeah. Oh, that's hot. Here we go. Okay, a full flip and right there. I needed help being able to get This right here looks incredibly dangerous. I like it. I feel like if I can launch right here, completely miss my own board, What I was going to say I feel like I can end up on top Everything here is completely under control. Okay, things are less under control now. Okay, ready? Going for the windows. There it is. It's a bull's eye. I was just checking the masonry. You have a crack in your wall. It could be because of me. [laughs] Okay, if I start down here, I still want to get up a little bit higher. There it is, going to land it. I mean. [chuckles] That was awesome. Thank you, I'm glad you think so. I love how this kid just and he was like, &quot;Oh, that was awesome.&quot; All right, my plan is to break Okay, this is perfect. This is Florida's hell over here. I feel like I'm right back at home. So you can see that other individuals are already skating inside of the pool. Okay, here you go, Little does anyone know leaving my bicuspid into space and take out a satellite Okay, so-- [chuckles] I actually kind of li-- There's actually a few pools here. What I kind of wanna do is launch into space and land in another guy's pool. All right, kids, There we go. I think I can land this. And by land it, Okay, and up, there we go. Okay, into the next pool, great. I didn't want to actually come in on my-- [laughs] I did, I almost took him out. I didn't want to come in on the skateboard, I just want to faceplant in front of him and see what he had to say about it. These kids must have tough lives an old man dying in front of them All alright, the other thing I need to do is see if I can get a jump like, a different zip code that's the plan. And got it. Oh, I don't got it. I'm going to end up eating my own skateboard. Did that hurt? Did that kid just ask me if that hurt. You realize half of my skateboard is still inside of my digestive tract, right? Yeah, it hurt. I want the jump of a lifetime. I want to break records and okay. Every once in a while, there it is. [laughs] I almost got into the trash can. What'd you call me? Hey, idiot. Yeah. Keep that up I'll stuff Did he say he was gonna I stuff myself in recycling bins. Hey, don't take it out of the recycling bin. [laughs] Anyway, folks, Until next time, stay foxy. [groans] Adventure. [groans]