Translator: Joseph Geni When I was little, I thought my country And I grew up singing a song And I was very proud. In school, we spent a lot of time but we never learned much except that America, South Korea, Although I often wondered I thought I would spend until everything suddenly changed. When I was seven years old, But I thought my life My family was not poor, and myself, I had never But one day, in 1995, from a coworker's sister. It read, &quot;When you read this, our five family members because we haven't eaten We are lying on the floor together, and our bodies are so weak, I was so shocked. This was the first time I heard Soon after, when I was walking I saw something terrible that to this day A lifeless woman was lying on the ground, while an emaciated child in her arms just stared helplessly But nobody helped them, because they were so focused on taking A huge famine hit North Korea Ultimately, more than a million and many only survived by eating Power outages also became so everything around me except for the sea of lights in China, just across the river from my home. I always wondered This is a satellite picture compared to neighbors. This is the Amnok River, which serves as a part of the border As you can see, the river can be allowing North Koreans to secretly cross. But many die. Sometimes, I saw dead bodies I can't reveal many details but I only can say that I was sent to China to live But I only thought that I would for a short time. I could have never imagined that it would take 14 years In China, it was hard living I had no idea what life as a North Korean refugee. But I soon learned it's not it's also very dangerous, since North Korean refugees are considered So I was living in constant fear and I would be repatriated back in North Korea. One day, my worst nightmare came true, when I was caught by the Chinese police, and brought to the police station Someone had accused me so they tested my Chinese and asked me tons of questions. I was so scared. I thought my heart was going to explode. If anything seemed unnatural, I thought my life was over. But I managed to control and answer the questions. After they finished questioning me, one official said to another, &quot;This was a false report. And they let me go. It was a miracle. Some North Koreans in China But many can be caught and repatriated. These girls were so lucky. Even though they were caught, they were eventually released, These North Koreans were not so lucky. Every year, countless North Koreans and repatriated to North Korea, where they can be tortured, imprisoned, Even though I was many other North Koreans It's tragic that North Koreans and struggle so hard just to survive. Even after learning a new their whole world can be turned That's why, after 10 years I decided to risk going to South Korea. And I started a new life yet again. Settling down in South Korea was a lot more challenging English was so important in South Korea, so I had to start learning Also, I realized there was a wide gap We are all Korean, but inside, we have become very different, I even went through an identity crisis. Am I South Korean or North Korean? Where am I from? Who am I? Suddenly, there was no country Even though adjusting to life I made a plan -- I started studying Just as I was starting I received a shocking phone call. The North Korean authorities that I sent to my family, and, as a punishment, my family to a desolate location in the countryside. They had to get out quickly. So I started planning North Koreans have to travel on the path to freedom. It's almost impossible to cross the border between North Korea and South Korea. So, ironically, I took and headed toward the North Korean border. Since my family couldn't speak Chinese, I had to guide them somehow in China, and then into Southeast Asia. The journey by bus took one week, and we were almost caught several times. One time, our bus was stopped He took everyone's I.D. cards, and he started asking them questions. Since my family couldn't I thought my family As the Chinese officer I impulsively stood up, and I told him that these are deaf and dumb people He looked at me suspiciously, but luckily, he believed me. We made it all the way But I had to spend almost all my money to bribe the border guards in Laos. But even after we got past the border, my family was arrested and jailed After I paid the fine and bribe, my family was released in one month. But soon after, my family in the capital of Laos. This was one of the lowest I did everything to get and we came so close, but my family was thrown in jail, just a short distance I went back and forth and the police station, desperately trying to get my family out. but I didn't have enough money I lost all hope. At that moment, I heard &quot;What's wrong?&quot; I was so surprised that a total stranger In my broken English, I explained the situation, the man went to the ATM, and he paid the rest and two other North Koreans I thanked him with all my heart, &quot;Why are you helping me?&quot; &quot;I'm not helping you,&quot; he said. &quot;I'm helping the North Korean people.&quot; I realized that this The kind stranger symbolized new hope when we needed it most. And he showed me and the support are truly the rays of hope Eventually, after our long journey, my family and I were reunited But getting to freedom Many North Koreans and when they arrive in a new country, they start with little or no money. So we can benefit for education, English language training, We can also act as a bridge between the people inside North Korea Because many of us stay in contact and we send information and money that is helping to change I've been so lucky, received so I want to help give a chance to prosper I'm confident that you will see succeeding all over the world, including the TED stage. Thank you. (Applause)