AKAGI, KAGA. SHOKAKU. RYUJO. TAIHO. SHINANO. The footage we saw this time was a CG reconstruction of an aircraft carrier built in Japan. Japan actively adopted advanced aircraft carrier technology from the UK and produced aircraft carriers with world-class performance in a short period of time. Japan has undergone a unique development that differs from that of the United Kingdom and the United States. This video introduces Japanese aircraft carriers built from the dawn of the aircraft carrier era to the end of World War II. Please understand that this is not dated. HOSHO was the first aircraft carrier built by Japan and was completed on December 27, 1922. HOSHO is defined as the world's first aircraft carrier. The design of HOSHO has received significant support from the UK. HOSHO was built using blueprints provided by the original aircraft carrier Hermes. The landing of the HOSHO was successfully completed by requesting the services of William Jordan, a British sailor. William Jourdan was paid handsomely. HOSHO retains some resemblance to seaplane carrier design, including a tilting funnel and a forward-leaning flight deck. It has many unique design features reminiscent of early aircraft carriers. It has many similarities to later aircraft carriers, such as a small bridge mounted on the starboard side of the ship. In addition to being used as a combat carrier, it was also used as an aircraft carrier. The project was carried out with an experimental approach, providing a variety of data. He made a great contribution to the Japanese aircraft carriers. By the time the war with the United States began, it was already an outdated aircraft carrier. Therefore, after the Battle of Midway, the ship was retired from the front line and used as a training aircraft carrier in the rear. This was a rare aircraft carrier that was operational at the end of the war. After the war, HOSHO was used for demobilization transport and was dismantled in 1947. RYUJO is a small aircraft carrier that was completed on May 9, 1933. RYUJO was planned to be developed as an auxiliary ship for an aircraft carrier, not subject to the disarmament treaty. The London Naval Treaty, which was signed at that time, defined RYUJO as an aircraft carrier. It was redesigned as an aircraft carrier capable of carrying 48 aircraft. It had a hull resembling a small cruiser with a hangar attached, giving it the appearance of an illegal building shaped like an inverted triangle. Even with the latest technology, it was not resilient enough. Due to the impact of the extreme nature of the accident, RYUJO was eventually remodeled to a more stable form. It is special in use. Ryujo's aviation outfitting know-how could not be utilized in the design of later small aircraft carriers. As a ship, RYUJO was not a masterpiece. This was well received in the field due to the large number of aircraft it could carry. It has many brave stories, such as sinking enemy transport ships with anti-aircraft guns. RYUJO served for a long time, but was sunk by a fierce attack from enemy carrier-based aircraft during the Second Battle of the Solomon Islands. The aircraft carrier AKAGI was designed as a battlecruiser. AKAGI was converted into an aircraft carrier in accordance with the Washington Naval Treaty and was launched on March 25, 1927. When completed, AKAGI had a multi-stage flight deck. The plan was to operate AKAGI's lower flight deck for takeoffs and the upper flight deck for landings, with the takeoff and landing spaces being separated. The AKAGI plan could not be realized due to the increased weight of the aircraft. AKAGI's newly designed curved chimney made it impossible to open the surrounding windows, making the space unlivable. AKAGI was called &quot;Murderer NAGAYA&quot; by the sailors. Due to significant design problems with KAGA, completion of AKAGI's renovation was delayed until the fall of 1938. Due to the budget being overspent on the renovation of KAGA, the renovation work on AKAGI was not carried out thoroughly. A new flight deck was added on top of the flight deck from the three-tiered aircraft carrier era. AKAGI has become an aircraft carrier with a complex structure. The number of aircraft carried remained at between 63 and 75. That was fewer than KAGA, which could operate more than 80 aircraft on board. Due to weight distribution and the assumption that the ship would land from the bow, the bridge is located on the left side of the ship. This arrangement created turbulence and was unpopular with the crew. Although its anti-aircraft weapons were outdated, there was no doubt that it was an CarrierStrikeGroup. Since the outbreak of the war, AKAGI has played an active role as the backbone of the CarrierStrikeGroup. She was wrecked and caught fire during the Battle of Midway, and was given up towing and sunk. The aircraft carrier KAGA was originally constructed as a battleship. Following the signing of the disarmament treaty, it was decided that KAGA would be scrapped. The battlecruiser AMAGI, which was scheduled to be converted into an aircraft carrier, was destroyed in the Great Kanto Earthquake, so the KAGA was converted into an aircraft carrier instead. Launched on March 31, 1928, KAGA was equipped with a three-tiered flight deck, just like AKAGI. The KAGA was fitted with a huge guide chimney to reduce the effect of exhaust smoke obstructing aircraft. This design didn't have any good elements. There is a story that KAGA was nicknamed the &quot;Sea Eagle Yakitori Making Machine&quot; because of its poor living conditions. A quick refit resulted in a significant improvement in KAGA's performance. KAGA has been reborn as Japan's largest aircraft carrier, with a maximum capacity of 102 aircraft. There were 81 of these in regular use in actual operations. KAGA was superior to AKAGI in terms of its capabilities as an aircraft carrier. Its speed was not sufficient for an aircraft carrier. Due to the advantage of minimal ship movement, they served as the main force of the Japanese CarrierStrikeGroup. It was the first Japanese aircraft carrier to experience the loss of aircraft and the shooting down of enemy aircraft during the First Shanghai Incident. After the war began, KAGA fought alongside AKAGI. KAGA was heavily damaged after being hit by four large bombs during the Battle of Midway. A major fire broke out on the KAGA due to a chain reaction of explosions caused by bombs and torpedoes in the hangar. It came to a spectacular end. SORYU is a medium-sized aircraft carrier that was attempted to be designed within the framework of disarmament treaties, with a standard displacement of 10,000 tons. SORYU was completed on December 29, 1937. A single bomb hit on an aircraft carrier's flight deck can make takeoff and landing impossible. It was decided that too much fighting power would be lost using the large ships AKAGI and KAGA, so attempts were made to disperse forces using medium-sized aircraft carriers. At that time, aircraft performance was immature. In the original SORYU plan, there was a plan to give it the firing power of a cruiser. Following an incident involving SORYU's stability, its design was revised to become a pure aircraft carrier. The completed SORYU looks like a smaller version of KAGA. The SORYU had a larger displacement than the KAGA and offered a good balance of speed, carrying capacity, and other factors. It received high praise from the field, with people saying it was easier to use than the SHOKAKU type. Its design had a major influence on subsequent Japanese aircraft carriers. The SORYU was designed with a small displacement, so it was not possible to make its armor thicker. The weakness of horizontal defenses was a major reason leading to losses at the Battle of Midway. HIRYU is an aircraft carrier that can be considered a pure sister ship of SORYU. HIRYU was completed on July 5, 1939. The construction of HIRYU was planned within the restrictions of disarmament treaties, just like SORYU. Once it was confirmed that Japan would withdraw from the disarmament treaty, changes were made to the SORYU's design. Its freeboard height has been increased and its hangar area enlarged. As a result of studying HIRYU's bow landing, the bridge was designed on the left side of the ship. A relocation of the HIRYU's rudder was implemented, but the design changes were not effective. SORYU and HIRYU are small aircraft carriers, so they carry small amounts of aviation fuel. Although these were cutting-edge technologies, there were concerns about whether they would hold up in the operational plan. After the war began, HIRYU played an active role as the core of the Japanese CarrierStrikeGroup. At the start of the Battle of Midway, three allied aircraft carriers were set on fire. The surviving HIRYU fought alone against three enemy aircraft carriers, fatally damaging Yorktown. This was a battle that demonstrated HIRYU's design concept of an aircraft carrier for use against aircraft carriers. I fought hard but it was a complete disaster. A torpedo attack was carried out by an allied destroyer. The aircraft carrier SHOKAKU was the first ship of the SHOKAKU-class aircraft carriers, completed on August 8, 1941. This appearance is a restoration of SHOKAKU at the start of the war around December 1941. The SHOKAKU type, which was not subject to the restrictions of the disarmament treaty, was designed as a larger version of the HIRYU. The SHOKAKU type had high speed and enhanced defensive capabilities. Compared to AKAGI and KAGA, it had the same carrying capacity and could carry more aviation fuel. It achieved performance close to ideal for an aircraft carrier at the time and was generally regarded as a masterpiece. The hull was made long and narrow to enable high speeds, which resulted in a lot of lateral rocking. There is a record of the hardships the crew endured. The SHOKAKU class's vulnerable flight deck was not improved, and improvements to this shortcoming had to await the aircraft carrier Taiho. After the outbreak of the war, the SHOKAKU and ZUIKAKU were evaluated as having inferior coordination among Japan's CarrierStrikeGroup. After the Battle of Midway, she took over command of the 1st Carrier Division from AKAGI and KAGA and fought in fierce battles. SHOKAKU survived despite sustaining heavy damage many times, demonstrating its high resilience. It was sunk by three torpedoes from a submarine during the Battle of the Marianas. The ZUIKAKU aircraft carrier was the second ship of the SHOKAKU-class aircraft carriers, completed on September 25, 1941. The SHOKAKU-class aircraft carrier, which boasted performance close to ideal, was a major factor. The Navy waited for the ZUIKAKU and SHOKAKU aircraft carriers to become operational before launching its attack on Pearl Harbor. ZUIKAKU and SHOKAKU were considered to be lacking in training due to the fact that they were deployed to the military in a short period of time. In BATTLE OF THE CORAL SEA, the world's first showdown between CarrierStrikeGroup forces, ZUIKAKU and SHOKAKU made a significant contribution to the destruction of the enemy CarrierStrikeGroup. Even after losing AKAGI and KAGA, ZUIKAKU and SHOKAKU fought on equal terms with the American CarrierStrikeGroup. ZUIKAKU and SHOKAKU performed very well throughout the match. They were considered the best military training ships among the Japanese fleet. While ZUIKAKU's sister ship, SHOKAKU, was damaged, ZUIKAKU was fortunate enough to not be hit. The SHOKAKU-class was defeated in the Battle of the Mariana Sea, due to being greatly outnumbered. The SHOKAKU-class' final sortie was to act as a decoy to attract enemy CarrierStrikeGroup. This footage shows ZUIKAKU during its final sortie, the Battle of Cape Engan. It was painted in green anti-submarine paint. The flight deck was painted in a unique camouflage pattern. It was fitted with a rocket launcher-like weapon called a rocket launcher, and its anti-aircraft weaponry was strengthened. I completed my final mission, my role as a decoy. It was hit so many times that it became unable to sail and sank after watching the crew abandon ship. ZUIKAKU's final moments were captured in photographs from that time, and their appearance remains to this day. The aircraft carrier JUNYO has flooded at the MITSUBISHI NAGASAKI SHIPYARD as the luxury cruise liner KASHIWAMARU. Due to the worsening international situation, it was decided that JUNYO would be converted into an aircraft carrier. Junyo was launched as an aircraft carrier on May 3, 1942. JUNYO had a displacement approaching that of the SHOKAKU-class aircraft carrier and looked imposing. A large bridge was installed on JUNYO for testing purposes. This was to become the standard style for the next generation of Japanese aircraft carriers. Since JUNYO is not a pure aircraft carrier, the usable floor space of the hangar is smaller than that of HIRYU. The JUNYO had an excellent range and could carry a capacity of 51 ships using its vast flight deck. Although the speed was slow, there are testimonies that the ride was &quot;comfortable&quot; due to the wide hull. After the Battle of Midway, it was used as a flagship aircraft carrier, and contributed to the sinking of the aircraft carrier Hornet in the Battle of the South Pacific. It served as the only aircraft carrier in the Third Battle of the Solomon Islands, and performed just as well as a regular aircraft carrier. He survived the Battle of the Marianas, which ended in defeat. It was heavily damaged by a torpedo attack from an American submarine on December 9, 1944. The heavily damaged JUNYO was never fully repaired and the war ended. HIYO is the second ship of the JUNYO-class aircraft carrier, but its construction number precedes that of JUNYO. HIYO was sometimes referred to as the HIYO-class aircraft carrier. It was planned to be built as a passenger ship called IZUMOMARU. HIYO was built with government subsidies on the condition that, like JUNYO, it would be converted into an aircraft carrier in the event of an emergency. Japan's relationship with the United States has become increasingly tense. IZUMOMARU was purchased by the Navy and cruised as an aircraft carrier on July 31, 1942. There was no difference between HIYO and JUNYO in terms of their design drawings. There was a conventional wisdom that the HIYO was designed with a rounded flight deck. There are differences in equipment between HIYO and JUNYO. The interior of HIYO was more warship-like than JUNYO. It had performance comparable to that of a flagship aircraft carrier. There are testimonies of HIYO having problems with toilets causing frequent backflow. Even after the work was done, the toilets in HIYO's petty officers' and captain's quarters were not repaired. Based on the lessons learned from the battle, thorough damage control measures were implemented. All wooden items were removed. It was an example for other ships. HIYO was disabled by enemy aircraft attack during the Battle of the Mariana Sea. A torpedo attack from an enemy submarine caused a fire. The fire pump broke and restoration efforts were abandoned. And HIYO sank into the sea. The ZUIHO-class aircraft carrier was designed as a fast refueling tanker. The ZUIHO-class aircraft carrier was converted into a submarine tender. It was a ship that was converted into an aircraft carrier and was completed in December 1940 (Showa 15). In postwar books, the ZUIHO-class aircraft carriers were sometimes classified as the SHOHO-class aircraft carriers. It looks like an aircraft carrier without a bridge. The bridge is located between the hull and the flight deck. Such aircraft carriers are called flush-deck aircraft carriers. While this had the advantage of making effective use of the entire deck, it had the disadvantage of poor visibility. Lookout posts had to be set up on the sides of the ship to coordinate with the crew on the bridge and direct dispatches and battles. The flight deck of the final ZUIHO was extended. Their role was to support large aircraft carriers. The ZUIHO class was given the role of escorting the fleet as the HOSHO became obsolete. On May 7, 1942, after the outbreak of war, the sister ship SHOHO was attacked by enemy aircraft while escorting a convoy. The SHOHO was hit by seven enemy torpedoes and 13 bombs and sank. SHOHO is the first Japanese aircraft carrier to be lost. After the Battle of Midway, ZUIHO continued to serve as the core of the CarrierStrikeGroup and fought in fierce battles. It was sunk in the Battle of Cape Engano in October 1944 after completing its mission as a decoy. In its final form, the ZUIHO had a unique camouflage pattern on its flight deck. The letter &quot;ZUHO&quot; is painted on the flight deck to identify the ship. This can also be seen in photographs from that time. The aircraft carrier RYUHO was completed as the submarine tender TAIGEI. The diesel engines continued to malfunction, limiting the ship's maximum speed to 15 knots. The priority for aircraft carrier conversion was lower than that of ZUIHO. The decision to convert the Taikei into an aircraft carrier was postponed until just before the war. The conversion was a major overhaul that involved removing the malfunctioning diesel engines and replacing them with destroyer turbines. It was hit by a bomb during the Doolittle Raid, the first air raid on the Japanese mainland. Due to this damage, the renovation work of TAIGEI has been postponed. On November 30, 1942, RYUHO was converted into an aircraft carrier and engaged in transport and training missions. RYUHO's first participation in a naval battle was the Battle of the Mariana Islands in June 1944. The Battle of the Mariana Sea was RYUHO's last naval battle. After that, he was engaged in transport missions. On November 7, 1944, RYUHO was the last of the Japanese Navy's CarrierStrikeGroup. There was no air force to board RYUHO. It was heavily damaged in the air raid on the Kure naval base on March 19, 1945, and remained in that condition until the end of the war. On paper, RYUHO is classified as a ZUIHO-class aircraft carrier. An auxiliary bridge is installed on the side of the ship, and the equipment differs from that of the ZUIHO-class aircraft carriers. The RYUHO has a different hull than the ZUIHO. Its overall length is longer than ZUIHO, and it also has distinctive bulges on its sides. The CHITOSE-class aircraft carrier is a low-deck aircraft carrier that was converted from a seaplane carrier into an aircraft carrier. CHITOSE and CHIYODA are classified as ZUIHO-class aircraft carriers in the documents. CHITOSE and CHIYODA have higher freeboard than the cruiser-type ZUIHO. Their engines were from the days of the seaplane carriers. It was powered by a hybrid diesel and steam turbine engine. CHITOSE and CHIYODA demonstrated the longest range of any Japanese aircraft carrier. Noise was a major problem for the crew. Since the CHITOSE-class was designed to operate the ultra-small submarine Ko-hyoteki, the hangar floor was close to sea level. Considering the risk of flooding, the CHITOSE-class had some design disadvantages as an aircraft carrier. This has been addressed by increasing the number of partitions. It was customary for a ship to be renamed when it was converted into an aircraft carrier. At the request of their crew, CHITOSE and CHIYODA continued to fight to the end under their renamed names. By December 1943, when CHITOSE's conversion into an aircraft carrier was complete, Japan was on the losing side in the war. The battle situation was not one in which CHITOSE and CHIYODA could shine. It was effectively used as a decoy in the Battle of Cape Engano, which was the final battle between CHITOSE and CHIYODA. They sank off Cape Engano. The aircraft carrier TAIHO is a large aircraft carrier with a displacement of 30,000 tons designed to carry the next generation of CarrierStrikeGroup. The TAIHO has a bow shape called a hurricane bow, which is different from previous Japanese aircraft carriers. It features a newly designed bridge that was trialled on the aircraft carrier Junyo. Its greatest feature is its strong defensive power. The TAIHO has a running flight deck, which was a drawback of conventional aircraft carriers. It was designed to withstand dive bombing attacks using 500kg bombs. Anti-aircraft armament is equipped with the new long 10CM anti-aircraft gun. The ship was also suitable for operating new aircraft due to its state-of-the-art aviation equipment. Due to the heavy armor, the hangar area was smaller than that of the SHOKAKU type. The onboard capacity was 52. The number of aircraft that TAIHO can carry is based on the assumption that new aircraft such as REPPU and RYUSEI will be larger. Taking into account the area of the flight deck, the effective area of the TAIHO is only 6% less than that of the SHOKAKU class. It was widely believed that the TAIHO had a latex-coated flight deck. Recent investigations have confirmed that TAIHO has a wooden deck. It was thought to have been painted in a color similar to that of a military vessel. It was expected to be an unsinkable aircraft carrier. When a torpedo from an enemy submarine hit the ship during the Battle of the Marianas, vaporized gasoline filled the inside of the ship. A series of unfortunate events led to an explosion and the ship sank. This has been pointed out as a major drawback of enclosed aircraft carriers. The UNRYU-class aircraft carriers were medium-sized aircraft carriers planned for mass construction to fill the gap left by the defeat at the Battle of Midway. The basic design of the UNRYU-class was optimized based on the lessons learned from the HIRYU. The UNRYU-class had the capability to operate new carrier-based aircraft. The UNRYU-class ships were less likely to sink than the HIRYU due to the development of damage control techniques that reflected lessons learned from war. The armor was not reinforced, leaving the design vulnerable in terms of defense. The planned number of UNRYU-class ships diminished as the war progressed. Only three UNRYU-type ships were completed: UNRYU, AMAGI, and KATSURAGI. The third ship, KATSURAGI, was designed with mass production in mind more than UNRYU. KATSURAGI has an overall angular shape like a polygon model. The bridge structure was also enlarged, making the Kanryu different from other UNRYU-class ships. Due to construction time constraints, it was fitted with an engine designed for a destroyer, which means its speed is about 2 knots slower than the UNRYU. AMAGI and KATSURAGI were completed in just one year and ten months. The war situation was so hopeless that the UNRYU-class aircraft carriers had no opportunity to take part in naval battles. The use of the UNRYU type in kamikaze missions was considered, but the plan was scrapped. The UNRYU was sunk by a US submarine on December 19, 1944. AMAGI and KATSURAGI were unable to move due to lack of fuel. AMAGI suffered severe damage in the air raids. KATSURAGI was a valuable large ship that remained operational even after the end of the war and was used as a demobilization ship. The KATSURAGI, which had been converted into a demobilization ship, sailed south without even having repaired the damage to its deck, and played an active role in delivering many soldiers to the Japanese mainland. After completing its role as a demobilization ship, KATSURAGI was dismantled in December 1946, ending its life as a ship. Japan was preparing to host the 1940 Tokyo Olympics. Japan needed a large number of large passenger ships to attract tourists from overseas. The NITTAMARU-class passenger and cargo ship, the predecessor to the aircraft carrier-capable ships, was built to attract tourists. NITTAMARU, YAHATAMARU, and KASUMIMARU are named after &quot;NYK,&quot; the English name of their owner, Nippon Yusen Kaisha. There are still illustrations of personification. The NITTAMARU, YAHATAMARU, and KASUMIMARU were constructed with government subsidies, with the intention of converting them into aircraft carriers in the event of an emergency. When the worsening international situation led to the cancellation of the Olympic Games and a naval war with the United States became a reality, the three ships were purchased and requisitioned by the navy. Completed on September 5, 1941, the TAIYO's capabilities as an aircraft carrier were limited due to its slow speed and the fact that its engines had not been replaced. TAIYO was used for aircraft transport missions. As the front line retreated, the TAIYO-class aircraft carriers were deployed to escort transport convoys, and they performed well. The NITTAMARU, YAHATAMARU, and KASUMIMARU were lost to submarine attack while escorting the battle group. There has also been criticism of the operation of the TAIYO-class aircraft carriers. The aircraft carriers TAIYO and UNYO are notable for being the only Japanese aircraft carriers equipped with a single 12CM anti-aircraft gun. The second ship, UNYO, was heavily damaged and lost its bow, so it is equipped with twin anti-aircraft guns and other equipment different from TAIYO. There are no surviving photographs of UNYO in its final form, so it is not possible to confirm this for certain. CHUYO, the last aircraft carrier to be converted, was equipped with twin anti-aircraft guns from the start. CHUYO had the most sophisticated aviation outfitting of the TAIYO-class aircraft carriers. KAIYO is an aircraft carrier converted from the passenger liner ARUZENCHINAMARU, which was built for the South American route. On paper, KAIYO is classified as a TAIYO-class aircraft carrier. The KAIYO's hull structure and outfitting are significantly different from the TAIYO-class aircraft carrier, making the two ships more akin to a quasi-same type. Like the NITTAMARU class, the ARUZENCHINAMARU class cargo-passenger ships were built with government subsidies on the condition that they could be purchased in the event of an emergency. There were no plans to convert the ARUZENCHINAMARU-class cargo-passenger ships into aircraft carriers before the war. Following the defeat at the Battle of Midway, it was decided that the ARUZENCHINAMARU class cargo-passenger ships would be converted into aircraft carriers. Shortly after the decision was made to convert it into an aircraft carrier, the sister ship BURAJIRUMARU sank. Only ARUZENCHINAMARU was converted into an aircraft carrier. Because KAIYO was too slow to be an aircraft carrier, its engines were converted to those for a destroyer. KAIYO recorded a speed of 23.82 knots during sea trials. It has recorded a speed of 24 knots in escort duty. Because KAIYO was one of the smaller converted aircraft carriers, it was not used as a carrier for the CarrierStrikeGroup. KAIYO was tasked with aircraft transport and convoy escort duties. As an aircraft carrier equipped with carrier-based aircraft, it completed the Japanese Navy last ocean-going mission. After the severance of the Southern Sea Route meant that its activities as an escort carrier ceased, it was used as a training target ship from April 1945 onwards. She sustained heavy damage from mines and air raids, and by the end of the war was in a badly damaged state, stranded at the bottom. SHINYO is an aircraft carrier converted from the German passenger liner SCHARNHORST. On paper, SHINYO is classified as a TAIYO-class aircraft carrier. The passenger ship SCHARNHORST operates on the Far East route connecting Germany and Japan. This was a rivalry with the NITTAMARU, YAHATAMARU, and KASUMIMARU, which were the basis for the other TAIYO-class aircraft carriers. When World War II broke out, SCHARNHORST remained in Japan due to fears of being defeated. Japan acquired SCHARNHORST from Germany on the condition that they would pay for the construction costs after the war. The ship was large and was expected to serve as an aircraft carrier. There were no blueprints from when the ship was a passenger ship, so the renovation took a long time - one year and three months. The German ships' high-temperature Wagner boilers continued to malfunction and the engines needed to be replaced. Construction was completed in March 1944, and the ship was incorporated into the Maritime Escort Force in July. SHINYO was used effectively for aircraft transport and convoy escort missions. It was sunk by a torpedo attack from a US submarine on November 17, 1944. On paper, there were five TAIYO-class aircraft carriers. When you line up the TAIYO-class aircraft carriers, you can see the differences in their outfitting. The KAIYO and SHINYO, with their different hulls, were completely different creatures. The aircraft carrier SHINANO is a large aircraft carrier with a displacement of over 60,000 tons, converted from the third YAMATO-class battleship. SHINANO is the largest aircraft carrier built during World War II. The SHINANO aircraft carrier conversion plan considered the idea of an offshore base that would act as a relay base for friendly aircraft carriers. It was decided that SHINANO would be built as a heavily armored aircraft carrier with an armored flight deck, like TAIHO. The design of SHINANO was influenced by various lessons learned from war. The hangar is open to prevent secondary explosions. The rear of the hangar, the space for accommodating attack aircraft, is enclosed. This is for fighter aircraft. The SHINANO was required to be protected against dive bombing attacks with 800kg bombs. The defense of the SHINANO's ships was better than that of the TAIHO. Horizontal defense is equivalent to that of a battleship. Its vertical defense performance was superior to that of a heavy cruiser. Its underwater defenses surpassed those of the Yamato. It was supposed to have a high resistance to torpedoes. SHINANO's carrying capacity is about 50, which is small considering the size of the ship. According to a memo from SHINANO's designers, documentation exists indicating that existing fighter aircraft could carry more than 80 of these missiles. When it was completed on November 19, 1944, there was no aircraft to carry it. The completion was just on paper, it wasn't actually finished. The ship set sail for Kule while work continued on board for fitting out work. On the way there, SHINANO was hit by four torpedoes from an enemy submarine and sunk. SHINANO's short life has come to an end. The cause of the sinking has been attributed to insufficient training of the crew and the fact that the ship was virtually unfinished. Because SHINANO sank before her outfitting was completed, her restored appearance this time is based on an imaginary image of her outfitted state. Thank you for watching the video until the end. The restoration of the Japanese aircraft carrier is now complete. Details of the books I used as references and the people who provided me with materials are listed in the summary section. I would like to express my gratitude here. thank you very much. The rest are light cruisers and destroyers. I think we can achieve that by the end of the year. I would appreciate it if you could like this video, subscribe to the channel, and support us in continuing our activities. See you all in the next video. Goodbye.