Tom: Everybody, welcome to Impact Theory. You're here because you believe as I do You know that having potential is not the it. Our goal with this show and company is to are going to help you actually execute on All right. Today's guest is a hacker turned neuroscientist. He is a fascinating blend of a wide variety him to explore some promising albeit nontraditional open the skull and peering inside whilst the What he's found is so interesting it makes speaker and leading thinker who is influencing His education is a wondrous grab bag of joy and both an MA and Philosophy and a BSC in He is a visiting faculty member at MIT's in such prestigious scholarly journals as as well as widely-distributed publications New Scientist. He was named one of the 40 leading professors brought him acclaim and attention from all been tapped as a consultant and contributor Limitless, Bull, Falling Water, and Ancient He's also the Alfred P. Sloan professor a screenwriting course on science and film. He holds multiple patents and is a multi-time have garnered him millions of views. Please help me in welcoming the professor School of Management and the neuroscience who has actually walked into a bank and robbed Moran: Thank you. Tom: Thank you so much for joining us. I think the only reasonable place to start a bank? Moran: It feels remarkable. I think ... I'm trying to go back to the It's something that you [crosstalk 00:02:40] Tom: How many times have you robbed a bank? Moran: I robbed a bank the way you mean as times and stole money virtually dozens of Tom: The stealing money virtually was your Moran: Right. Tom: Walk us through how you end up walking Moran: There are a number of people right and steal the money online. This is a job that's called pen tester. You're hired by the bank's board to try This is common. There are some banks who would let you also mean to actually go there and see if the cameras left a Post-It note with the password on the &quot;Hey, give me your money.&quot; It's not that popular among hackers because every now and then, you'll hear about a among those who went instead. Let's see if we can rob the bank the way Tom: How do you then end up becoming a neuroscientist? Your job was pretty sexy. It's not like it was drooling boring. You were robbing banks and hacking computers. Moran: The story involved a lot of characters one person who influenced me the most is Francis neuroscientist studying consciousness in San so totally something doing else in my life, In this evening, he learned about my career at the black box, see what comes in, what This is what hackers do. He said, "Think about using that in something the world which is looking at the brain." The brain is this black box. Instead of trying to figure out the code, they do and learn how their brains work to This took me two years to actually apply the Tom: [Inaudible 00:04:45] You're talking the people who discovered the double helix Honestly, tell us about researching. I didn't realize how recently he was active. It felt a little more decent to me. You've called him your idol. What was it about him in particular that made Moran: First of all, he tackled interesting they try to do the same thing many, many times problem. He was not that kind of guy. He really tried to look at all the things things in science but you should not ever Studying dreams, consciousness, whether there's things that we think about when we were kids ever touch this thing at least until you get He was looking into all of those things and was what's interesting. Tom: You actually made a list, right, when You made the list of like here are the important Moran: Day one on my fridge, I had this Post-It do if I ever get a PhD. Among those things were the things I mentioned. Tom: All right. Let's take them piece by piece. I'm really fascinated by Free Will certainly, in terms of his talk about free will and all What is it that draws you to Free Will? Why are you interested? Moran: I think that in a way, there's an We live life thinking we make decisions all and also determined and defined by those. If I ask you what do you want to have for and you make a choice, then your choice is This is like what you care about. If I told you right now that I could predict you made a choice, a day, 20 years before, but also gives us meaning because it says, we carry with us throughout life. Now, the choice has become really something of but as a person in the world. I always care about like free will, understanding things. If you think that, okay, [inaudible 00:07:06] ... I'm sorry. They are not determined, we do have control Tom: You believe that we do have free will on how we're thinking of them. We have to totally re-imagine it. Morgan: There's like two kind of moments One is whether we do actually have this moment arbitrary and we have like a choice. I do believe that we have that free will, What's interesting is the moment when we I ask you ... [inaudible 00:07:41] ask you moment like you have two options. Now, you're about to make a choice. What do you want? Tom: Steak for sure. Morgan: You had a second now where you had two, and make a decision. Now, at some point if I ask you when did you as soon as I finished the sentence.&quot; Maybe you would say a fraction of a second The question is, A, how far before did we Also, was there anything I could have said fish. Most importantly, what's the gap between moment that you chose and the moment that Apparently, there is a gap and this gap is The moment where you say that's the moment, I can look at your brain and say, "You know Actually here, your dinner that you're going Or even like if you want to take it one step and make you choose this thing. I would tell you and I'd say, &quot;Who made You say, &quot;I have to make the choice myself. This was my decision.&quot; I'd say, "Well, you know what, here's say fish." [crosstalk 00:08:43] Transcranial magnetic stimulation? Morgan: Yes. This is not to me but there are people who Tom: Yeah, so what would you do? Can you really do the steak-fish one? Morgan: The only demo that I saw was one person buttons and they have to choose whether they People sit there and they pressed left, right, Then someone asked them what is your choice They'd say of course and then you zoom out this machine that looks at the brain. They're basically playing like a [puppeteer Tom: Get the fuck out of here. That's real? Morgan: That's real. What's interesting isn't that you can This is not surprising. We know that we can actually zap your brain What's surprising is that you would tell that it was your decision. You wouldn't question the fact that what This to me was an interesting part that we defend it. In other words, whatever I did I wanted to If I do this thing, it was my choice. Now we know that it wasn't necessarily your That things affected you, that things made that it was your decision so we can actually Tom: How do people respond when you show them? Morgan: Funny. They mostly try to defend free will so they I showed them the video of me telling things. They say, no, no, no. We have this experiment that we bring them We say, &quot;Okay, what do you want to eat after Where do you want to sit, here or there?&quot; We ask them to make decisions and we don't Just say take decisions, like sit here or Do you want this pen or that pen? Do you want the light on or off? Then we ask them after the experiments how The people who experienced us toying with of choices. They made about 14 but they really feel that, this was my decision, they cannot try to grasp lot of decisions to my life and I made them.&quot; They become a little more religious. They become a little bit more ethical. A lot of things happen to you when you feel Tom: That is so interesting. I've heard a lot of these studies and I've conga drums and whether they did the right I've seen one where you know they're about buttons on essentially to buzz them and tell I didn't know about that one. It's so interesting. Okay, so you're a guy with deep background You teach a screenwriting course, for God's Help me understand how you know that you can in free will. It sounds like you believe in free will and narrative. Moran: Here's the idea. I feel that there's a lot of things that The temperature in the room, the height of holding; a lot of things. This is studied by a lot of people in many, can actually change a person's behavior. We can list those things so someone can take can apply if they want to have better interactions be, what they should do. We know that. We know that thing. At the same time, we still live life as if We know that I can trick you by making the would think it's 6, not 7, just like the All of us know it and it still works. Take that to a larger scale, we know that that affect our brain and even if I tell you way. Free will is becoming interesting to me when Then who am I?&quot; Who's in charge? Who's the puppeteer in this example? The reality is that ... what we learn is that There's many, many. Every day, one other guy wakes up, and so and they're vying for dominance. They fight and they compete. They make a decision together, they vote, last and we say this is who I am. To me, the most interesting is that we can We can show them fighting. We can tell you that there's more people In doing so, we can actually allow you to you know maybe that you're making better in the evening. You might know that you're making better I'm full; when you're talking to friends, We can now profile your brain. Tom: If somebody is watching us right now Do I make better decisions when I'm hungry What are you looking for and what can they Morgan: I would say what we do with a lot that want to actually make decisions better, It's not easy to do it but I'll tell you to maybe try it yourself. We have them basically walk for a week with down. Tell us like I had this fish or the steak I've chosen. They also write whether they were happy or Now, this is done the way they wouldn't We put EEG cap on their head ... Morgan: ... for more than 24 hours. They walk with something that measures their There's moments where they have to replace There's a little like gaps there. Altogether, we have them walk through life reflect on their choices but also have us What we do at the end of the three days, one uncomfortable and embarrassing sometimes. We ask them to look at all the choices and bad. Then we look at their brains and we see what What did it look like when they made choices We sometimes see that there are things in made choices more using this part of the brain. I'm only trying to simplify it by looking rather than rational. We see that they activate more part of the to do with reflection rather than like thinking. We tell them, "Here's what we learned You are better in this and that state." That's one thing. It's not easy to apply because you still Not everyone can do that. At least people in senior positions who feel us and say, "Okay, help me. I want to know who I am better." Tom: Now, what about those study you did where going hard, hard, hard, hard, hard, and you "Okay, they're going to quit." Then you use that information overtime to How does that work? Morgan: Behind that lies the idea that the there's part of the brain that we really It's the part that's doing self control. If you think about it in simple way [inaudible You go running. The first mile, your legs say let's run, and there another part of the brain that says After one mile, your legs say it's a little that controls them say keep going. After 10 miles, the legs say I want to quit, It's like there's a battle there and at Now when you're going to break depends on depends on this control coming from the front your pain. If we can see this moment where you break, that you can do a little more, we can come the same thing you did yesterday. Have you run? Only this time when you get to the moment we're going to play a sound. We're going to tell you that we can see to just continue for one more minute at this Tom: What, in that moment, how do you appeal Is it like, come on, mother fucker, like you Moran: That's basically it. There's a question in sport for a while, play home game versus outside game? What is it about your mom being in the audience In theory, they doesn't matter like throwing Somehow, we know that if your friends are that people do better when they're, &quot;Oh. They're kind of winning.&quot; There's a lot of things that affect our What we try to understand right now is where What is this part of the brain that gets better Now we're seeing it. Tom: This is life like what you're talking Boys and girls at home, I'm telling you There is a willingness to suffer to being Whatever it is that you're trying to do, It literally like being able to extend your When I read- all face those moments when the alarm buzzes We set the alarm at 10 p.m. and suddenly in we're not the person who wants to wake up It's the same brain that sets the alarm We're not the same guy. This is the moment like that. We have to make a choice when we're going There's like a tasty cake and we're on We say, oh, I shouldn't eat the cake but Now is the moment where those two parts of The more you know about yourself, the more you can do in controlling them. The more you know about yourself, you can That's the ultimate thing. That's why we're here. We're giving you the knowledge. Once you know it, it doesn't work anymore. Once you know that 6.99 isn't 7, it's Just knowing is enough for people to do better. Know that it's in your capacity to change. That's what we want. Tom: Like how does somebody become more self-aware? How do they begin to identify those things extend their breaking point or so that they Moran: All they need to do is they need to would know all the option. I said there's hundreds and thousands of hundreds of biases that, we, humans have. I can give you examples in a second. Once you know them, they don't work anymore. The job of scientist is to just translate it can be then spoken to an audience who then All they need to do is just do this. Speak to people and list their biases. Then it doesn't work anymore. At least when it happens you become a little That's all we need. It's pretty simple. Once you know it, it doesn't work. Tom: Let's use an example from your life. I love this story, by the way. You're about to be published in Nature. It's your first big break in science, and Then someone wakes you up from a nap and you possible." You can't take it back. You're like "Wait, wait, that's not It goes crazy. The part that I love is Christopher Nolan this movie, Inception. You're now the dream recording guy. I want you to come with me and do a worldwide and just be ... I'm sure money and certainly Even though you knew going means essentially agree with, but turning it down means that What did you go through in the 24 hours before Moran: To give you the full story, I'm finishing I haven't decided what I'd do next. Am I continuing in science? Do I go like back to being a hacker? This is like a moment of [inaudible 00:20:21] where the end of my five-year PhD is getting hindrance of this thing. Then I have suddenly an option to actually even though it's based on a lie. I was fortunate enough to have enough checks go far with that so here's the interesting I knew it was impossible to look at people's in sleepy state and created this like amazing dreams. The mistake was to leave this. To say it's not possible, I'm not going about it. If anything can be learned from this thing record dreams because that's why it's it. Dreams are interesting. I went and I said it's impossible and I want This was a mistake. Three years later, I'm sitting at home, BBC were the first ones to let the story go They called me again and they say, "Professor and the possibility of doing that." I said, "Guys, are you kidding me? I'm done with that. This is not too ... Like let's not even They said, "No, no. We know that you're going to do that. We want you to comment on the work of Professor now." Someone in Japan didn't know that it was He just didn't hear me going anywhere public it. Three years after I said it was impossible, I joined. Now half the thing I do in life is actually The mistake I made, it wasn't just saying It was to say that something was impossible is all about going to those dark places and My mistake was to say it was impossible before I should have said we don't know yet, we I was quick to say "I didn't do it, it's years. Five years after, I'm doing it right now. Tom: Dude, can I shake your hand? I fucking love that so much like most people the mistake that I made was actually in the bolder. I should've made a wiser proclamation. Then to actually join the team, that's so Moran: Dreams is something that I was told Now that's what I do in my life every day. Now I'm never saying something is possible Tom: I love that. I love it even more if you would go so far Then you'd really have me. Moran: I'll go with you. You mentioned that I teach screenwriting and The reason I do that is because I feel that hours with the kids who write plays, with who writes science fiction, from movies that You mentioned that like this has inspired We are kids of 1999. What happened then affected us. Star Trek affected my dad's generation. The best paper that I had ever written has The episode of Limitless that I worked on watching it. Those are the kids who are going to be me If they think, oh, this is maybe possible, You're asking me how to change their behavior. This is how. To know what the possibilities are. Tom: I love that so much. Here's the people watching the show, they it into the ground because it's so important. I am not an example of what happens when innate I'm an example of what happens with a human I didn't show early signs of promise. I got a 990 on my SATs. I was taking it twice. I don't qualify for men's or anything I have an average IQ. It's like none of my raw materials are very I work hard over a very long period of time. In doing so, I've completely transformed the point where now people just assume I'm The same people, right, that were looking but they do now. The reason this conversation is so important comes down to me to the narrative that you lost and bordering on depress and all of that, was that I was a victim of something. Once I gave up the victim mentality and I to, so now it's a spiritual question, right? If you really believe you can do anything time is a spiritual question. Once I said, "Okay, what I'm going to I'm going to see how much can I manipulate I began researching the brain to understand about myelin. If you don't even know what myelin is to out is fucking crazy. Researching the brain, finding out the anatomical to, okay, this comes down to self-narrative. If I'm telling myself dreams can be recorded, shy of that. When you're talking about never saying that really sure, what I start thinking is thinking The Matrix and saying, &quot;Okay, either that bullets is actually possible,&quot; like whatever Time travel was one of the things on your The promise I make to people watching the more than you would have if you didn't watch One of the key reasons for that is you'll big, that's on you. The only reason you're not thinking big nothing in the machinations of the brain, you in science, nothing that would lead you impossible actually is. Moran: Let me say this in neuroscience words. I love it so here's how I'm going to say Your brain goes with you and it carries all All of you have from what happened before they're not accurate and they're compressed. That's only about the past. You have no idea in the future even though This is what dreams are for. This is what decisions are for. You try to simulate the future and make predictions. You don't know what's going on. All you have is this sliver of reality which you control everything that happens there. The nice thing about the present is that actually and you can change things. What we learned in the last five years is If I have to summarize it to one sentence, If you have a memory stored here or what you did you had for lunch, you basically open Right now you tell me a story, but whatever you say it differently. If I ask you tomorrow what you had for lunch, Every time I ask you the same question, you actually change the past. You can actually change your experience of This is why therapy works. Your girlfriend breaks up with you, you go You tell the story, she intervenes, you say A week after, what happened, you tell a different After five meetings, you have a different That is powerful because it means that we We don't really have to be confounded to We can actually change it. That's what the brain is for, to simulate version of life. We can make ourselves happy. We can make bad things look better. We can control things and it's all by virtue and saving it again. It's as simple as that. We have the ability to actually change a story Learning is one way to do that. Thinking and reflecting about ourselves is Having more experiences allows us to do that. We know all of these now. Suddenly, there's essence to this self-help know how to implement that. I become a preacher but ... people are listening to your sermon because struggling to have success should know is yourself is the most important thing you have. If you tell yourself a story of struggle, like all of that, then that's going to reinforce Going back to what you're saying at the justifying why they made some choice, right. When you said do you want the fish or the as a human being is I'm the guy who chooses I know that isn't even difficult. It would've been easier if you said steak chooses steak over cake. It's like that's pure narrative. That's what I want to tell myself. The big breakthrough in my life, the big breakthrough to put a demarcation point, it is the day I wasn't, and I started thinking of myself That changed everything because now the narrative pulling out changing just a little bit and myself as somebody who learns faster than in the time and the effort to learn. It became this identity which was anti-fragile, stupid and it didn't matter. It didn't hurt me. It just compelled me to learn more. The reason I shook your hand earlier is I that. I should've done this. Any time people can say that, can just own somebody who's polishing a self-image in they look at that failure, the harder they It's really incredible. All right. I want to ask you all the questions that I hoping ... because I get asked these questions All right. Number one, how can I get more motivation? It's the one thing because I've never I don't know how to help people. Moran: Tough. Here's how I would think about it. Motivation is a word, right. It's a label that we put, set of events What you actually want is the outcome of that. You want to do things when it's held. I think there a few things that we know work. One is evidence of past successes. If I say to you and go back to your memories the current event that's the same is a success. I think one thing is having success stories There's a lot of people out there. There was a person that is like you that had you want to choose. Find this person or this people and it's I get asked by my students often how do I by [inaudible 00:32:21]. What I give them all the time is surround You want to be funny? Just sleep next to comedians. Just go within the same room they are and Its' going to rub onto you by osmosis because really changes everything. Other people said that before but I'll tell We know now that brains interact with each the brains. When I talk to you right now, if you're we scan our brain right now, our brains are on the street that isn't here. Two people in the same room, as soon as they if you want, pulsing in the same way. Part of their brain light up in the same way, This is how we affect each other. This is how communication made humans who This is the one thing that makes us better able to communicate using language, affect that only exist together. We both believe in things that we've never democracy or money, like those things we invented, in people's brains, and they all share this In the same way, if you surround yourself them communicate, they change your brain, You're going to actually become funnier to you. You'll actually become more motivated if The next version of that, if you cannot find part of Alaska and you can't just find yourself be with, is to actually just look at them That's the way our brain basically gets Changing brains happens in many, many ways to say what kind of world I want to be in movies, stories, TV shows, all people. That's the ways to get things that you want Tom: Do you think when you're doing that pattern that ultimately wires? Moran: You actually change your brain. We didn't mention that the science behind We put electrodes in people's brains and to them. We actually see it in action. We see how the brain changes when people communicate. We see how the brain looks. When you watch a movie, we see how your brain When you tell someone else the story about but aligns also with the brain of the director Communication is this mechanism by which information Actually, if you want to take it one step because we [inaudible 00:35:06] all the time. You drive your car or you walk to work and communicate, you also change your brain. You solidify the things that you want to be want. We always talk. Those voices, those are basically the other other. You can choose which ones to give more weight you want to be. We actually now play with things that change in the following way. [crosstalk 00:35:37] years in neuroscience that was finally discovered overnight. If you look at the night if you go to sleep experience. It's not really just to fall asleep and You actually have phases. We call them stages and cycles. There have different things that's happening you're dreaming. That's when our brain basically simulate that could happen and allow us to live through VR. We actually live life thinking that we're her in Alaska or to quit the job and move Really that experience filled it to our emotions This is one stage. There's another thing stage that's really We call it slow-wave sleep. It's a stage of the night where your brain the day before and waits them, and chooses out. If you think about life when you go through call the present. About every one-and-a-half second you have past. It becomes a memory. You go to the next moment and you live it Then when you go to sleep, your brain looks It says, okay. When I walk from home to the bank, I had 20 They're not really important. I should compress them into one. Keep just one. Remove the others. When I kissed her, it was a moment that I to keep all of them individually like one Your brain does it. You're in slow-wave sleep during this mode. You choose out of all of them and picks the What we learned in the last five years, 10 you at this stage. When you're sleeping, it will make you change We can choose for you to focus on the walk so, we're going to basically make you strengthen We do that by using smells or sounds that In the right moment, the smell of the ... actually watching like [inaudible 00:37:55] Moran: It has to be done. The important thing is you can't do that You can't just spray the smell and do it You have to do it in the right moment because to wash out. You have to target the brain at the right I smell this thing. This means that I want to focus on this moment What the experiments that we are doing and can actually make a person learn things when You can actually change their behavior. You can make them choose to focus on different up not doing these things. You can actually do things. The classic experiment that was really popular come to lab and they're smokers and they They go to sleep for two hours. The experiment just wait for the moment when listening to the outside world and reassessing They spray the smell of nicotine into their all the memories I have, let's focus on Then immediately after, they blast the brain makes the brain rewire and take nicotine and You do that a few times. When they're sleeping, they wake up, they Then suddenly, they say, &quot;I don't really For a few days they actually changed their They don't want to smoke, not knowing what They just came, took a nap, wake up, and they This is change in behavior neuroscience. You find the moment, you hit the brain with wakes up a different person. Tom: That is amazing. Do people freak out about that like good or Moran: The answer is they do but they shouldn't. I have an analogy that's going to be the Go back 406 years ago, 1610. Galileo Galilee points his telescope to the and he expected it to go in one way but it It goes in a different way. He tries to understand what's going on there. The only way to solve the equation is to realign the solar system by putting the sun in the in the system which to him is the [inaudible What does it mean? That we're just one more planet out of many? We're not the center. It feels horrible to him. It changes everything. The equations require that so he does it. In doing so, he basically allows us to now Suddenly we see that the universe is much it. In the next 400 years, we saw more of the out there. Now in the same way, in the last five years, own brain, there are many, many voices and We're not even the center. We're just one more voice out of many in they're the most important. Actually, the quiet ones that don't really Now, this to us, again, feels like a [inaudible What does it mean that I'm not the center The reality is that this will allow us to thing in the universe which is us. That's I think a profound understanding. Yes, it's scary that we're not responsible are creating a narrative based on things that That's the beauty of us because now we can and learn how things happen, and maybe we'll Tom: It's really interesting. Moran: I somehow ended up being a preacher I have no idea how it happened but I'm going Tom: Yes, please. Preach now about the self-deception, how essentially the voice ... to use your vernacular, the together this narrative based on these decisions How can we leverage that to either just tell get the quiet voices to do what we want them Very specifically with self-deception, how in a self-aware way to push us forward. Moran: It is tool that we're deceiving ourselves to a positive one. Set of deception sounds like a bad thing. This is our brain's way of saving us. This is our brain's ... it's [inaudible It's still not living to reality the way This is actually mechanisms that our brain We know that our eyes offer us only a small has but we call this reality. We know that our nose smells only what's to where the smells are. The smells are down here and our noses are We don't even smell ... We don't have All of those things may not ... Our brain It always offers us a reality that isn't That's great. This allows us to have a different view of On one hand, we want to know what's out That's why we have x-ray sensors and ultraviolet are all the rays of light that are out there That's why we developed all those smart that our ear can get. We want to know what's out there, but our set of deception that we call reality in a It allows us to live life in a comfortable Tom: One of the things you talked about along really bad at understanding what they want themselves, intentionally deceiving you as One thing I get asked a lot is somebody wants They want to find a career that they love. They want to start a company but they don't How can people get good at understanding what Moran: I would say that the best way is to Be aware meaning like [crosstalk 00:44:01] What you see actually when you look at the of a message does it take for your brain to We can show you eight times. Tom: Eight? Moran: It varies but that's the area. We show you eight times this person next to this cell lights up in your brain. The cell, it codes Tiger Woods, lights up They show you Gillette, another cell lights We start showing you the two of them together, suddenly the cell for Tiger Woods also codes Woods. Suddenly, the cell [crosstalk 00:44:46] and Eight repetitions is very little. This is the amount of time that commercials now I know that this is the [inaudible 00:44:55]. That means that it's very easy to place change it. Now that we also learned that these numbers times of the day. We know that there's times of the day where Tom: Why do you think it has to do with this? Is that like a circadian rhythm thing? Is that a level of alertness tied to food Moran: All of the above. Our brain has a lot of clocks in it, if you There's clocks and there's environment. In a way, it's simple. The neuroscience proves what we can do behaviorally Just pay attention, learn, surround ourselves when we want to be fooled and when we don't I think that this historian I really like to humanity were famine, plague and war. Basically, it's over. Those are no longer a threat for us. If someone is hungry right now, it's because There shouldn't be any hunger in the world us. Basically, we conquered the things that we scary. You're a lot more likely to die from overeating Diabetes is a lot bigger threat to us than In that sense, I think we conquered a lot Now, we're at the level we start playing We're starting to think what can we do to We have privileges. We are focusing out on happiness and what We are extending life to its limit and now we don't know how to deal with is not the A lot of us are going to get to age 150, you not being there. Our bodies are going to be there but our brain thinking. A bunch of neuroscientists, and I'm helping beyond me are trying to fix that. This is really the science fiction aspect. The way to fix it is not by actually fixing of it. What we're doing right now ... Moran: Yes, with the chips like you basically brain almost like a bridge so things come go out. A lot of things could come in, a lot of things There is a table of millions of things that what comes out. The idea is that when you're starting to going to put electrodes in your brain and learn that while you're decaying and when no longer out there, we're going to take that failed. We're going to put a chip instead. That chip is going to now take the input from Now you can open it to questions like is it Tom: That's being worked on right now? Moran: It's already working with rats. With rats, you can actually induce Alzheimer that do the mapping. It's done here in Los Angeles [inaudible 00:48:07] Tom: Man, you're really getting ... It's, B, you're opening Pandora's Box like this I love this show. Moran: Yeah, we should talk about ethics in Whatever you tell me [inaudible 00:48:19] Tom: Let's talk about ethics. Moran: ... because there is an interesting I'm spending my time, half my days, in a This could be seen like a really selling your 00:48:37] and crunch overnight to a person You can bombard their brain with [inaudible up and they want [inaudible 00:48:44] and Tom: Can we switch that to crossbars? Moran: Please. The idea is that there's like a war right and they're finding things. They're finding how to change behavior over We're learning how we can change your biome with your gut bacteria that makes you different. We know how smell affects your behavior. We can make you like this woman, not that A lot of things happening and no one is in It takes them a while to create the policies. The people who are really fast are businessmen They are really fast. They hear about it and they say, okay, let's My students, the MBA students, are the ones My job ... and that's why I feel it's students how bad they felt when they saw the They say, &quot;Oh, come on. I feel like I'm being schooled. Someone tells me that it's 6.99 to fool of $7. I would know. Why do they play with my ...&quot; who sets the price of an item and you're 6.99 and make a person buy or you can say I'm going to not try to play on all those I think this is the reality we have to have offer you a lot of tools to do good or bad with them. Tom: Can I give you what I think is the right I'm talking to the school of management As an entrepreneur, as somebody who's built I came to because I'm very much trying to we're living in an era where companies have a moral obligation to make products worthy If you're making a product that actually and yes I get it, who determines the value. I honestly think that the companies have to say I believe this product is good for you. Moran: Hundred percent. Tom: If you believe that it's good for the the tools and techniques to get people to It all comes down to what you're pushing about policymakers trying to get adoption or whatever the case may be that things that society as a whole. You have to sell it. You have to get people to believe in that As long as that thing is good for you, I think Moran: I think the thing that as scientist This is why we're here to all the options you and the ones that are going to be bad how to make a choice better yourself. Tom: That's good. One last question for you. What's the impact that you want to have Moran: The one thing that I'm really good complex ideas and make them into something This is the impact that I want to be. I want to find ways, movies, conversations, option. I want everyone in the world to know enough Tom: I love it. Moran, thank you so much... Moran: Thank you so much. Tom: ... for coming on the show, man. That was incredible. Guys, I think we all are thinking the same Where can we find you online? Moran: I have a website that I built in the I think. It has my name, morancerf.com, but, then again, that take the message there. If you just look for ideas, you'll find Tom: Nice. Well, I can tell you from experience if you to get a treasure trove of amazing talks. Watch them all. They're incredible. I hope you guys had as much fun with this I promise you I will be working to get him It is rare that I say that on the spot, but That will be amazing. I had so much fun picking this man's brain, Everything he does is incredible. You're going to see that as you dive into Watch the talks and hear him go from one subject He can go deep business and really like nuts it over and show you photos of an actual brain from that. It is utterly astonishing. I have rarely seen a human being who can so between academia and business. For anybody out there that wants to be at marketing, you're going to want to look It is absolutely phenomenal. From one narrator to another, as somebody you have a unique ability to do it. It's absolutely incredible. Watch him on the Moth Storytelling. See the stories that allowed him to win the They're amazing. All right, guys. This is a weekly show. If you're not already following me, you Hit it up. We're doing really cool stuff on my socials. If you're not already following Impact Theory, It's @impacttheory. Guys, as you know this is a weekly show so Until next week, my friends. Be legendary. Take care. Thank you so much. What a pleasure man. Hey, everybody. Thanks so much for joining us for another If this content is adding value to your life, and rate and review. Not only does that help us build this community about but it also helps us get even more amazing all of us. Thank you, guys, so much for being a part Be legendary, my friends. How did we do? If you rate this transcript 3 or below, this