- Y'all I'm fixing to share with y'all my hands down favorite apple salad recipe. And an old cheerleading friend of mine and her sister, Sarah and Mary Hal, wrote a cookbook. And now I can't remember because it's been before I But anyway, I saw their recipe, and I said &quot;Oh my goodness.&quot; And when I began my cookbook I called Sarah and I said &quot;I would love to share this &quot;with my friends out there, She said &quot;Yes, of course.&quot; So it's called Thanksgiving apple salad, and it's gonna be like none In fact, if you pick up the you'll see me on the front and this recipe is among that spread. So let me tell you what we're gonna need. We're gonna need one cup of nuts, about a half a cup of maraschino cherries that I've rinsed so it won't turn our custard bright red. Third of a cup of flour, Three fourths a cup of sugar. One large can of crushed A half a stick of butter. And four to five apples. The recipe calls for four Now, in order to do this, I'm gonna, I got me some water right here, and I'm adding fruit fresh to it. And that's gonna help my So we don't have to I'm just gonna cut 'em into cubes, about like a potato salad. About the size you would cut your potatoes for potato salad. So, this is great 'cause you don't have to peel the apple. And the red color is so drop that into my fruit fresh. I'm just taking some paper towels, dry those off, and I'll probably run 'em All right, now to make our custard, the thing that takes The first thing I'm gonna do is go ahead and chop and I'm just gonna give A rough chop. And I was telling y'all earlier we sent this recipe in to &quot;Woman's World&quot; for my Thanksgiving issue, and we just got a copy, and the recipe is not in there for this. So make sure, since they make sure that you don't lose this recipe because it's truly delicious. Okay, start our custard for this. I'm gonna mix up our flour, third of a cup of flour, three fourths a cup of sugar, and I wanna blend that with my whisk because we don't want that flour to clump. So that's mixed real good. I'm gonna stir in our And you wanna do it kind of slow so you can make sure you Okay, so I think that looks pretty good. Now we're gonna turn And that flour is gonna thicken our base. (whisk banging) And we're gonna throw in Every good apple salad which is not a typical recipe, not a typical ingredient for apple salad. But this is a special So we're just gonna let this cook and thicken and then we're and let it cool. And after it cools we're our nuts, and I'm using pecans. And our crushed pineapple and our apples. Gonna stir all that together. You can see that there's no lumps in that because I used my handy dandy whisk to mix up the sugar and the flour so that there were no lumps. And then I added my heavy cream slowly, and mixed it together. So, one more time, no lumps. Not like me, this ain't Y'all, I feel lumpy. You can see that this is Nice and thick and sweet and beautiful. Okay, that's nice and thick y'all. I'm gonna turn off the heat, move the pan away from the heat, and I'm gonna let this cool. And then we're gonna add our pineapple, our nuts, our cherries, and our beautiful apples. Okay, our custard is cooled, and you could see it here in the pot, and I think I'm gonna mix and then I'll put it in All right, I'm gonna start by stirring in our crushed pineapple. Mm-hmm. And then I'm gonna stir in, I think I'll stir in our nuts. Oh, and I do like it All right and now I'm gonna add my apples. Mm, mm, mm, mm. Thanksgiving y'all. This is the one that I And when I'm in here making this, I know it's almost Thanksgiving. Okay, now I'm gonna stir in our cherries. And I just wanna get this all mixed up. I might have let that get I'm not sure but it's all right. By the time the juices from I think it's just fine. Mm, mm, mm, mm. Miss Peggy's over there and she's just in time, I'll be able to put her some Thanksgiving apple salad on her plate. Pile it in this bowl so y'all So this is our Thanksgiving apple salad. My hat is off to you two Hal sisters because this is a that you can really enjoy year round. Do yourself a favor, and don't wait until Thanksgiving. I wanna get nuts and custard and apples. Mm. It's heavenly. Just heavenly, Eddie. I wanna give you some up. - [Eddie] Hey, that's- - A cherry bowl. And let you taste it. Have you ever had it? - [Eddie] Oh yeah, you've made it. - You have? Okay, I thought so. I love the cherries in it. There you go. And here I go. That's your bowl, this Hey, y'all, it's Paula Deen. Now, if you enjoyed this video, and click the subscribe button bell to be alerted Love and Best Dishes Y'all.