(Music Playing) &quot;Wake up. Wake up, my dear.&quot; &quot;Wake up. Wake up.&quot; (TV Playing) Ma'am. Ma'am. Your English music ..and it's playing non-stop. It's not just music. It's exercise. How many times have I told you.. And how many times ..I just don't like you ..and your meaningless banter? You're a good girl You must spend your mornings What's all this useless music you Meaningless. Nonsense. Funny. Enough. Stop your acting now. You don't know where this I'm telling you. Otherwise there'll be a day.. ..when girls will ..and you won't even Silly boy. - Let me tell you You better finish your milk. Okay? Oh God. Brother Vicky, will you promise Don't come in. You don't even let me Brother Vicky, waking up And even the strongest man on I'd just say that waking It's a bad habit.. And I'd say it thrice You wake up late as well and Get lost. Sir. You were waiting for me? Oh. I'm not feeling well, master. That's why you're late? Take this. It's a watch. Every time you're late you Sometime your stomach is upset.. ..and sometimes there's Sometimes you say that.. ..you didn't realise the time ..and so you arrived late. You'll still be late. It's very simple. You're an artist. Artists are not like clerks And artists have moods too. Right? And sometime they get carried Yes, you're right. So, I was thinking, what if.. ..an artist like you gets a chance? It'd create ripples You're a connoisseur, master. You're absolutely right. Mister master. How many times have I told you Else you'll end up nowhere. You're still here? And what's wrong with you? Who's ever appreciated Oh, yes. Good I remembered. She liked a necklace worth Rs.10,000.. ..but brother Ravi was feeling I've told you because I had to. Krishna. This is where I stand now. Unnecessarily, you've spoiled an Brother. Hurry up, Brother. I'm getting late. Ravi. Now what, Sister-in-law? Take this, Ravi. The necklace that Naina liked Wow. That's like a good sister-in-law. No Sister-in-law, let it be. Take it, Brother. Please take it. - Come on. But how did you know Very simple. You know our thread.. You don't get it? Actually each of you is ..and that silly boy Krishna.. ..is the thread who that has So we easily come to know Otherwise how would we know? But Ravi. Why do you hesitate to ask I don't like it, Sister-in-law. Brother set up ..and helped us be independent. And we keep asking.. ..you and brother for Okay, don't butter your sister-in-law ..else Tinku will be late for school. Krishna. &quot;You look so pretty. So beautiful.&quot; &quot;Repeat it. Keep on telling it.&quot; When will you oblige our cars, You're always busy That's why, even after six ..it just arrived from the showroom. This is master's favourite car, ..and everything that master is fond of, (Music Playing) Welcome, Mr. Chaudhary. I heard that you're contesting ..of Mill Owners Association this year. So, I thought of congratulating you. I'm contesting all right ..the president for I don't know how many votes I can guarantee you two votes. One is mine, and the other..yours. (Laughing) Please come in. Mr. Kumar, for a long time, there's I thought of asking you What's that? I'd like to ask for your younger sister, What are you thinking, Mr. Kumar? You don't agree to the proposal? I was thinking that I never Mr. Kumar, daughters and Yes, it's very simple. I just never happened to notice. I don't mind, Mr. Chaudhary.. ..times have changed now. So I must consult my family, Ma'am. &quot;Oh traveller, take me along with you. &quot;Give me lift for today.&quot; &quot;Rickshaws and buses Krishna. Stop acting. Ma'am. You're going to the college, right? I've to take lunch for master. So you want a lift? Then hurry up. I don't have time. Time? Even I don't have time. Sister-in-law. &quot;Oh mother, ..between God's face and yours?&quot; Krishna. Krishna. &quot;Krishna. Heed the signals. &quot;Honk, honk, honk.&quot; &quot;The one that runs Good Lord. I'm late. (Engine Starting) (Birds Chirping) Why are you looking at me like that? I've done my daily share Krishna, get down and push the car. Come on, Krishna. Push the car. &quot;Hail Lord Hanuman.&quot; Heave ho. Okay, Krishna. Jump in. Thank you, Krishna. I was wondering whether I'd be Thankfully the car started..started. Oh no, Krishna. Krishna. Push the car. This car is a pile of junk. Giddy up! We're here Krishna. We're here. Okay. Ma'am.. ..it was a mistake Henceforth, I'll never Are you tired, Krishna? Whoever gets tired of pushing Ma'am, do you have Why? Okay, fine. I'll do that. And listen. After giving ..please buy four movie I've promised my That's okay, Ma'am. But what would you do I've pushed it till here. The garbage can itself. (Engine Starting) Hey. We must complete the contract of It's very simple. We don't get Our workers will work double shifts. It'll benefit them and we'll be able That's fine, Sir. ..to complete such a huge contract. I mean to say we need finance. Borrow as much as you Good Lord. Why are you sweating so much? This is your condition Yes. It's very natural.. ..when you're coming You won't understand all that. Keep it there. Nothing is more important Krishna, where will I get And how will you It's very simple. Then please start. Yes? Sorry, master Please call later. Okay, fine. Who was that? Don't you all feel hungry? Please go and have your Sir, please don't mind.. ..but it's not a good thing to Nagpal, six months are ..but even decades prove This boy whom you're calling a servant, He's very dear to me. I agree, I've no blood ties with him.. ..but is it necessary I'm sorry, Sir. But you've Krishna is an orphan, Sir. One whom this angel of a 'What happened, my child? 'No, Sir. It's his habit.' 'Whenever he sees a kind-hearted '..but nobody has held Even today I feel the sweetness He was nothing to me till that day. But today, he means the world to me. By God's grace, ..that this orphan Hey. Come here. Enough now. Serve me. You may leave. Now if you stand here with Smile. Smile properly otherwise Come on, Sir. I've to take back the lunch box. Why are you in such Ma'am wants to watch a ..and I have to go and Once again Mr. Amitabh How do I answer madam now? It's not even available in black. (Horn Honking) (Laughing) This is the best place to hide. It's a full house, Jyoti. Thank God I sent I hope he gets the tickets. You all don't know Krishna well. He's very intelligent. He's nowhere to be seen. There she comes. I'm done for. Krishna. Ma'am. Why are you so late? What happened? Nothing has happened, Ma'am. Nothing has happened. It's not nonsense. No, I mean it. And everything that has Had this Amitabh ..this house full board He's been harassing me Everywhere his films run house full. That means you didn't get any tickets. How do I confess that Jyoti, your Krishna Oh, now it's all Krishna's fault. It's correctly said Ma'am, you'd watch only one I can show you three actors No. &quot;Hey fans and all you lovely people &quot;Pay attention.&quot; &quot;All the heroes in the films &quot;All the heroes in the films &quot;I never go into the theatre. &quot;I never go into the theatre. &quot;I can act like &quot;All the heroes in the films &quot;All the heroes in the films &quot;Take care. Yes.&quot; &quot;When I go to the market dressed up &quot;Pretty girls are enticed by me.&quot; &quot;Well done.&quot; &quot;I'm from the banks of River Ganges.&quot; &quot;The whole country is crazy after me.&quot; &quot;I'm from the banks &quot;The whole country is crazy after me.&quot; &quot;My identity lies ..&quot; &quot;..in the betel leaf I always chew.&quot; &quot;I'm from the banks &quot;The whole country is crazy after me.&quot; &quot;I'm from the banks &quot;The whole country is crazy after me.&quot; &quot;That's why I always say.&quot; &quot;All the heroes in the films &quot;All the heroes in the films &quot;Look at me. I appear so innocent.&quot; &quot;But I'm a lover of lovers.&quot; &quot;A lover of lovers &quot;A bunch of flowers..&quot; &quot;..and a loafer as well. &quot;Come to me.&quot; &quot;Come to me.&quot; &quot;Come to me.&quot; &quot;Come to me.&quot; &quot;That's why I always say.&quot; &quot;All the heroes in the films &quot;All the heroes in the films &quot;Life is a journey and &quot;The whole world is mine. &quot;Life is a journey and &quot;The whole world is mine. &quot;I'm a crazy fellow &quot;I'm a crazy fellow &quot;Life is a journey and &quot;The whole world is mine. &quot;I'm a crazy fellow &quot;I'm a crazy fellow &quot;That's why I always say.&quot; &quot;He was the only hero..&quot; &quot;..compared to whom I'm a zero.&quot; &quot;And the rest?&quot; &quot;All the heroes in the films &quot;All the heroes in the films (Whistling) Welcome, Sir. Why did you come so early? ..so that everybody else, like Tinku, What Krishna? I've warmed Come on, Tinku. Get up. How many times have I told you But you all refuse to listen. Please sit down. For my sake. Well said, Brother. Has it ever so happened that.. ..we've eaten dinner without you? The sun never rises And neither will it ever Krishna, serve the food. Now your days in Why, Brother? Where am I going? Very simple. You're getting married. Really? Yes. He's a nice boy. And he's also handsome. I think.. Please keep your opinion to yourself. No brother. I don't want to get married. When a girl refuses coyly, Krishna. Sister-in-law, please stop him. If master comes to believe you, Stop there. I must have done some virtuous deeds.. ..in my previous life to Otherwise, such siblings There's so much of love 'Kumar, my child.' 'Your stepmother has always given 'Even today, I'm giving you the 'Mother. I'll love them 'I'll never let any sorrow touch them. 'I know that, son..' '..but often after 'This has always worried you, right?' 'Then listen to me.' 'I promise you, I'll never 'Mother.' Whenever I see them, They've never let us Am I right? And you know, when I named this ..I hadn't known that it (Crowd Applauding) Silence. Silence, please. As all of you are aware.. ..there are two candidates contesting ..of the Mill Owner's One is Mr. Dhanraj.. ..who has shouldered ..for the last eight years. And the second candidate ..who's contesting for the post Mr. Dhanraj has got 11 votes.. ..and Mr. Kumar has got 13 votes. (Crowd Applauding) Congratulations, Sir. Now I'd request the past ..to honour the new (Crowd Applauding) I can understand, Sir. What you must have felt when that ..for the last eight years was taken But what could be done? This position is Yours today, Today Mr. Kumar has got it. Tomorrow again it You don't understand, Mr. Nagpal. This tomorrow you're talking It won't come tomorrow itself. And within this one year ..that I've committed fraud ..the Mill Owners Association funds, What will happen to me? I might end up behind You're unnecessarily You don't understand. I'm fear his honesty. There's a saying in Gujarati that.. ..if you see snake and ..you must kill the honest man first (Laughing) What do you want, Sir? You don't understand, Mr. Nagpal. This man has been a pain He has always placed Take the recent example. This Ajanta Garment contract ..was actually supposed And this didn't happen for It has always happened that way. If his company keeps bagging ..my company will soon be broke. Sir, I joined hands with you so that.. ..I won't have to slog And when I've joined hands, You just tell me what you want. I want to ruin Kumar. Mr. Nagpal, just do what I say. Spit on my grave if Sir, we've taken enough We're still short of Rs.5 million. I had asked Mr. Chaudhary What happened? Sir, it's a huge amount. Mr. Chaudhary said that? No. His lawyer did. Okay. Mortgage my bungalow Take my signatures on the papers. What are you doing, Master? If you mortgage the house Silly boy. I'm just mortgaging it, A businessman is like a farmer. The way a farmer pays off his ..similarly I'll pay off my But, Master.. - This is business. It's not that easy to make money. If a person earns more than he needs.. ..it becomes a source And regardless of ..he can only sleep ..not on a silver cushion. You're right. But tell me something. Where are you taking so Sir, both of our younger ..as far as charity is concerned. Brother Vicky was telling me that.. ..he wants to donate Yes, we must do some charity. Sir, the workers are very happy. The production is in full swing. ..the target before dead line.. How are you? Greetings. How are you, Mr. Dhanraj? But you're not being nice to me. I've come to know that.. ..you're planning to I had a lot of respect I never thought that What are you saying? Dishonest and me? These are No. Both have the same meaning. Mr. Dhanraj. It's very simple. You've conned millions from You've taken disadvantage Who doesn't take advantage Dishonesty is the order of the day. Please find some other alternative.. ..so that I'm spared the trouble.. ..and your problem is solved too. I didn't get you. It's very simple, Mr. Kumar. We've a saying in Gujarati. It goes, if you're caught ..then offer bribe I've heard that you've got a And you're ready to mortgage Why do you need to do You tell me. How much finance I'm ready to fill any amount Consider me your brother. Look, you don't even need to And you need not You slapped me? I've answered your question. I couldn't find a We've a saying in Take a slap if you must.. ..but do return it with interest. I'll return it to you With interest. (Music Playing) Okay, Jyoti. I'll get it You've really made my birthday party.. ..by bringing Jyoti This party can be made memorable.. ..if you add a bit of hard What do you want, Prince? I just want to taste the I'll manage the rest. Why is it so bitter? Why do you get angry? What? Jyoti's not with you either? No. I've called up all her friends. Okay. She's your darling. She does whatever she wants, Why do you worry so much? She's no more a kid and (Music Playing) What happened, Jyoti? Come on. Dance. Come on. Come on. Please, leave me. Leave me. You can slap me as much as you want.. ..but only after I've done Deepa. Deepa. Help. Leave me. Excuse me, Mister. Leave me. I said leave me. Miss Deepa. Where's ma'am? Ma'am? Oh, Jyoti? She left an hour ago. Left? No. No. No. Leave me. Stop there, you idiot. Who are you? She's my ma'am. Idiot. I'd gouge out the eye How dare you touch her? How dare you touch her? Beat the hell out of him, Krishna. How dare you touch my ma'am? (Crying) Krishna. Krishna, Don't cry, Ma'am. I can't bear to see Let's go home, Ma'am. Everybody is worried at home. Where have you been? I'm asking you where have you been? Don't say anything to her, There's no need to say anything, Krishna. Her condition speaks volumes Why did you go to such party? Come on. Tell me. Why did you? Leave me. No, Master. No. Master. Master, no. Before you do anything just think.. Your shawl that's hiding her torn Go inside. Krishna.. ..I'll be forever indebted No, Master. No. Krishna can offer Should I call the priest tomorrow Let's find an auspicious occasion You're right. (Music Playing) &quot;You'd be married away to your beloved &quot;You'd be married away to your beloved &quot;Don't forget the moments, &quot;..you've spent with &quot;You'd be married away to your beloved &quot;Don't forget the moments, &quot;..you've spent with &quot;You'd be married away to your beloved &quot;Gaze lowered with shyness &quot;Her words fail her as she &quot;Gaze lowered with shyness &quot;Her words fail her as she expresses &quot;Listen to me people. &quot;..now that engagement is done, &quot;We mustn't make her wait &quot;You'd be married away to your beloved &quot;You'd be married away to your beloved &quot;We're now strangers to you, my sister.&quot; &quot;We're now strangers to you, my sister.&quot; &quot;You must live with your beloved.&quot; &quot;When you step out of my threshold..&quot; &quot;..make the house you &quot;Heed my advice.&quot; &quot;Endure joys as well as sorrows.&quot; &quot;Never forget these words of mine.&quot; &quot;Preserve the prestige &quot;Never forget these words of mine.&quot; &quot;Preserve the &quot;Never hurt anybody.&quot; &quot;You'd be married away to your beloved &quot;You'd be married away to your beloved &quot;Don't forget the moments, &quot;..you've spent with (Phone Ringing) Hello. What? What the matter, Master? What's the matter? Master, what happened? Our factory is ablaze, Krishna. (Screaming) Brother. Brother. Master, please stop. Master. Don't go there. Master, what are you doing? Master. Master. What happened? What's wrong with master? What's happening to him, I've given him an injection. He needs to rest. Okay, Mr. Kumar. I'll take your leave. Always keep these tablets with you. Whenever he feels this pain again.. ..give one of these to him. But, doctor, what has happened to him? He's had a heart attack. Heart attack? I'll be here for a check up tomorrow. Master. What are you doing here? Didn't I tell you not to come What are you doing here? So? ..the police investigations I'm afraid they'll find out the truth. The police will definitely find the truth. There's a saying in Gujarati. That bravery of brave, ..dig their grave. Most of the criminals are What's there to fear in it? Haven't you heard of Can't a mill catch fire So? Stop acting foolishly No matter how much the ..they will never find the truth. But if you keep doing such ..I'll have to go to Sorry. It was my mistake but Now move. And for some time, But let me congratulate You've succeeded in your intentions. I've yet not achieved M. Kumar will have I've just given a wound to him. Master. What's the matter, Krishna? Master.. ..why are you crying? Please come out for a moment, Master. (Phone Ringing) Hello, Mr. Chaudhary. Kumar, it's a rule ..when an engagement is broken. What? - What can I do? He doesn't like Jyoti. It's very simple, Chaudhary. Time is not in my favour. So you've turned your back on me too? But..why are you punishing I'm sorry. What's the matter? He said sorry. He said.. Rahul doesn't like Jyoti. 'Mother. I'll love them 'I'll never let any Please forgive me, mother. I couldn't fulfil my promise. How long will you sit here? You're great, Sister-in-law. An engagement has broken here and If staying awake could change things.. ..then I'd stay awake for all I could. What do you mean to say, Naina? I want to tell you something. Your elder brother has mortgaged When will you think sensibly? Your business is I just hope that ..sister doesn't burden you with Let him do whatever he wants. But both of you please Why should you suffer Greetings, Mr. Kumar. Greetings. Please have a seat. No, Mr. Kumar. Just return our money. It's very difficult to ..but I assure you that I'll pay Nobody can doubt your honesty. But we're really in need of money. Mr. Kumar, we've a suggestion. You hold shares in many companies. You also have the We've readied the papers already. That's all I'm left with right now. Even if I sell them off, I won't I had thought of starting ..so that I can pay off your debts. I just need some time. Okay, then we can give you six months. Six months are enough. I promise to pay off all your debts. Okay. The guarantee papers are ready. Please take your Ravi, sign this. They will be assured. That's okay, Brother. But how many people I don't get you. Starting a new business ..is not an easy job. And if you fail to pay ..what will happen to us? What are you saying, Brother Ravi? Is money more important Come on. Sign it. If you don't mind, I have a piece Put in an application that you're What rubbish are you talking, Brother? Master is asking you to Come on. Sign it. I don't need their signatures. Master, can't I sign instead No, Krishna, you're not eligible for it. Sir, why didn't you make me eligible? Why didn't you educate me, I'm thankful that Lawyer, give me the pen. Mr. Kumar, I'm an ordinary person. And my amount is not It's only Rs.200,000. When I've given something ..I won't disappoint (Birds Chirping) Master. No, master. I won't let him take away this. Krishna, when a He doesn't need a car. Correct. Look. Give the keys to him. When nothing is left, What have you been looking at all day? I'm seeing how little time it takes Master. I'm seeing how my life is suddenly ..that mill after the fire.. ..how sorrows and worries can render Let's go home, Master. Everybody must be waiting I'm not hungry, Krishna. Very good, Brother Ravi. Congratulations! Finally you've broken God's record. You did make sun rise from west. Very good. Till yesterday you'd wait till And today.. ..so what if we didn't wait one day? Let it be, Sister-in-law Naina. It's not good to humiliate somebody.. ..after placing him at the You're crossing your limits. I'll speak, Brother Ravi. Never before has this ..that you've eaten dinner But today..today I can see that.. ..you've made him a You want to uproot that very tree.. ..that sheltered you Brother Vicky, that It's just waiting for the spring. And once again.. And once again, you'd be able to Stop your rubbish now. You're carrying them out so well. Elder brother is neck deep in debt.. ..and sister-in-law is Younger sister is ..and brothers are not You're carrying out I wonder if it's blood that Krishna. An ordinary servant has People chain their dogs at home.. ..but here they have left it free. Sister-in-law Naina, they are wrong. They are wrong in ..because whenever a dog barks, Those selfish people.. ..who betray their boss ..are the ones who should be chained. You fool! You eat out of our hands Let it be. Why do you have Come on, let's go. Master, please eat something. No, Krishna. I'm not hungry. Can I say something, Master? Now you should get into You shouldn't take I can't take so much ..after facing insult from Krishna. Listen to me. Go far away from here. It's my duty. I'd promised my dying mother and Look. When a..when a river floods.. ..even the trees on the shore drown They should fly away. Even you should leave. Krishna is not a bird.. ..nor is he a shadow that Okay, the guest list is ready. Sister-in-law, I might have another No problem, you keep ..and invite your own guests, ..other important things to do. What's the preparation all about? It's Naina's birthday, brother. You are making party preparations? Is it necessary to have a party? I have always celebrated my birthday. This family has never I think we should stop Don't worry, Brother. I know. I know, but those moneylenders They'll think that ..and not returning their money. Out of your fear of the moneylenders.. ..tomorrow you might ..and live like beggars. I can't stay like that, Brother. You know what family I belong to? I know. I know you are But now, you are also the elder If someone dies in the house you.. ..don't celebrate even the Who's died here? Humanity and decency. I would suggest then one should I'd request you to stop splurging. It's so easy to advice others. He took the loan and If he is so concerned about savings.. ..then why doesn't he give ..and start smoking cheap cigarettes? Ravi. Give me Rs.200. Yes. I'd prayed for your Sister-in-law, if Gods start ..then why would anyone Don't argue, Ravi. Stupidity is not love, Sister-in-law. And then brother is He just told Naina not to And I guess he's right. Sister-in-law. Now we have no 'Ravi. 'Now what, Sister-in-law?' 'Keep quiet.' 'Here you are. 'The necklace which Naina liked 'Got it?' 'Wow, that's like a Jyoti. What's this? My wedding jewellery. Take as much as you want of it. No Jyoti. ..and now..you expect me No, I can't the use the ..of this house and fulfil my needs. I..I don't need the money. (Music Playing) It's yours? No sir. I didn't steal it. It's a gift given from someone. A token of someone's good times. Today he is going ..so I am selling it off. Okay, here you are. Brother Vicky. Brother Ravi. What's going on? What do you want from my trunk? Krishna, where's Jyoti's jewellery? Ma'am's jewellery? Oh, he is acting so innocent. Quickly tell us where have Did you sell them off? Brother Vicky, you should be ashamed.. ..to accuse me of such a lowly act. Would I steal in my own house? Ma'am. Ma'am, do I look a thief? Could I ever do something as Then where's the jewellery? Who else in this house Enough, I don't resent my ..half as much as This chain belongs Ma'am, I don't know I am telling the truth. So what do you want to say? That one of us kept He won't agree like this. Call the police. You're right. - No. Ma'am, talk some sense into them. This house will get defamed Stop. There's no need to But Brother, he.. I can still solve small Master. Master, scold them. They're suspecting me of They think that I sold off Where's the rest of What? What did you ask, Master? I asked where the You are asking me that, Master? You're asking your Krishna? Look Krishna. You just tell me where did you sell.. ..the jewellery, There's nothing left One small question of Krishna, don't The issue has already been The issue has already been stretched. Now when they beat me black and blue.. ..only then will I tell where Don't call me Master. You have defamed your master today. What hadn't I done for you? This is what you repay me with? Brother. Brother, what are you doing? The day my factory was ..wasn't as sad for me as is today.. ..when you've stolen Master. The day I lost my parents.. ..and I was orphaned ..as is today, when you've (Crying) How could you call me a thief, Master? There is no need to give Get lost. Get out of here. Get out of this house. Not just this house, What's with an orphan like me? I can spend the rest I spent so many years .. thinking that I had Why should I worry about anything? But no, now I know that an I'm going, Master. And I'll never come Get out. If you ever enter this house again, No, no. No. There is no need to hurt yourself I will never set I will never come back again. For God's sake, Don't mind his words. He loves you a lot. He loves me a lot. Krishna, what's going on? Hey no, no. Don't talk to me, Madam. Why? - I've stolen and What nonsense are you spouting? No, I am telling the truth. I am a thief. A thief. And why are you talking to me? You should hit me. Hit me. Madam.. When Vicky brother slapped me, I even endured when sister-in-law But today.. ..today when master slapped me, ..it hurt me there. Right there. What? He slapped you? He not only slapped me but Now even I won't stay here. I'm going. And listen Madam.. ..forgive me if unknowingly What is this that I am hearing? You raised your hand on Krishna? You told him to get out of the house? What do you think? Even if God comes down and ..I won't believe it. How did you believe it? Which fool believes that Then..then why did you do this? It's very simple, Janki. I can tolerate anything but.. ..when someone says anything to Krishna, Today that arrow pierced my heart I concealed my hurt It took me a lot to It wasn't easy for me to tell But.. but just think.. The world is a big place, Janki. And..after a few bumps No, I can't leave him No Janki. Have you ever thought Don't say that. You didn't think about what they'd He..he can't understand that ..because he has a clean heart. But why send him like He won't understand ..and he will never be Master..bless me with Okay Madam, at least you bless me. I now understand. I understand that all my ties It's very simple, Master. But it took Krishna so ..that the poor person's ..for sometime but Excuse me, Mister.. Mister, listen to me.. It's a strange city. Mister, where can I get What? (Laughing) What's so funny? Hey fool, who gave I've come without a ticket. I didn't have the Then listen, when I came to Bombay.. ..even I had asked the same question. Can I get a place to stay somewhere? It's been 20 years and I am just standing like this, You don't understand, right? Does this city belong to your father? Why don't you think before taking.. ..your bags and baggage Enough. Enough. Hey..hey my..my trunk. Who took away my trunk? Where's my trunk? Even you will vanish Even you will vanish Go away, go away, go back. Look mister, ..a million for free. Got it? Every person gets three things.. ..very difficultly in this city. Got it? Look there. Food, clothes and shelter. Thief. Oh no.. Thief. Thief. Mister, catch him. Hey where are you My trunk. Boss. Boss. Why are you yelling? Boss, look at this. That.. He's my man, what is it? Mister.. mister, He..he stole it from the station. It has my name on it. Krishna. Hey smarty, what if it If you write your ..then would become the owner here? Look mister, you don't.. Hey idiot, quickly get out of But that trunk belongs to me. Look mister, that trunk is mine. It contains a very precious I beg of you. But mister, listen to me.. Mister, give me my trunk back. Look, give me my trunk back. Hey man, get the trunk. Come on. Let me see. (Fighting Sound) By God. Don't worry, Brother. You have landed in the right hands. Hey boss, what are you doing? Do you plan to beat him to a pulp? And brother, even you should This fellow is a very crazy man. But he took my trunk.. And you get lost from here. Brother, this blood is more Go. Look mister, I have even begged and pleaded to you. Now I'll open my hands. (Fighting Sound) Oh no! Hey you, now when your ..you plan to escape? Hey, let me go. By God, Brother. You've shown Won't you tell me your name? Krishna. You seem to be new to Bombay. And you still haven't got You also look hungry. That means, you are a decent man. Brother, all this comes ..what are your future plans? I mean where will you go? That's good too. Then brother, My mansion is just around the corner. No, I don't want to be ..and when my family ..I don't share any Why don't we share a relationship? Look you're poor, I'm poor too. And by God, Brother.. ..the relation a poor person ..is greater than a brother-brother And the truth is, by God, Come. Come. Come on. Come on. Brother, your story is very sad. By God, you made me cry. You've heard my story but My name is..Airport. Airport? What kind of a name is that? Brother, people make ..and sometimes that I'm production manager And I pick up and drop Artist? You mean even Yes, everyone. From Amitabh Bachchan to Asrani.. ..and from Sridevi to Aruna Irani.. ..I have picked up ..them to the airport a zillion times. But I swear I still didn't get Please make me meet Brother, now you have come to me.. ..then I will surely get Okay, you stay here all alone. Don't you have any relatives? I do. Who says I don't? There is a distant uncle Distant uncle keeps And so-called sister-in-law (Laughing) Tell me something.. What is so special in this trunk Should I? This is that precious thing? This is my master's photograph. Okay. So this is the ..who accused you of theft No, this is the ..who raised a five-year-old Brother, what stuff You still have so much Friend, God always remains God. He is worshipped Irrespective of whether he bestows If you don't mind, may I place my Wow, Brother. Well done. Go. Master, I really miss you. I miss you a lot. Who must be taking care of you? Oh yes. They'll take good care of you. I won't come back, Master. I won't come back. It's very simple, Jyoti. I don't like it that I sit I must do something. We've lost everything. If anything happens to you, Whose support would we live by? Sometimes I wonder though ..how are you and your This is the difference Some family members become strangers.. ..and some strangers become family. Like our Krishna. I wonder where he is. You all are looking for me and I.. ..I was waiting for you all over here. Is that so? (Door Closes) Keep this in your pocket, Peter. Now I'll open this lock only after.. ..taking the keys out of your pocket. Take this. (Fighting Sound) Hey..hey what are you doing? What are you doing? Hey.. No. Oh. Brother. I beg of you, I plead to you.. ..if you want I can But I swear you should stop dreaming. Otherwise one day your Look.. look brother, Forgive me, Airport my friend, but.. No brother, today you'll have to Why do you have such dreams? What else a jobless person Till my dreams don't come true these.. ..dreams will keep following me. Oh. That means, I must get you a job. Come brother. I'll talk to ..and get you the job of spot boy. Which hero is shooting over here? Hey forget about the hero. ..director Mr. N. Chandra Call him 'Sir' and fall at his feet. But why should I call him sir? Because this is how you What is it? He is a very hard working boy, Sir. He wants a spot boy's job. It's a small thing. Keep him. You have done me a huge favour, Sir. Sir. I had clothes with me, Wow. Mumbai suited me well, sir. Mumbai suited me well. (Music Playing) &quot;Mum..Mum..Mumbai. &quot;Mum..Mum..Mumbai. &quot;At the sight of Mumbai &quot;Mum.. Mum.. Mumbai. &quot;Mum.. Mum.. Mumbai. &quot;At the sight of Mumbai &quot;Mum.. Mum.. Mumbai. &quot;Mum.. Mum.. Mumbai. &quot;The city's full of &quot;The beach is strewn &quot;Colonies standing on &quot;Film stars residing in &quot;It's heaven for those &quot;..while a pauper &quot;The earning and living &quot;The destiny here is with millions.&quot; &quot;The one who comes &quot;This is not a city but a shackle.&quot; &quot;Coming to this city has &quot;Mum.. Mum.. Mumbai. &quot;Mum.. Mum.. Mumbai. &quot;So many tall buildings &quot;So many roads and &quot;Don't talk about food, &quot;All the land is sold off, &quot;Money is the be all and end all.&quot; &quot;Money is God.&quot; &quot;Man is running after the money.&quot; &quot;Lifetimes are spent away in queues.&quot; &quot;Look how many deaths &quot;The condition &quot;Mum.. Mum.. Mumbai. &quot;Mum.. Mum.. Mumbai. &quot;At the sight of Mumbai &quot;Mum.. Mum.. Mumbai. &quot;Mum.. Mum.. Mumbai. &quot;It suited me well.&quot; &quot;Yes, Mumbai suited me well.&quot; &quot;Wow.&quot; &quot;Great, brother.&quot; &quot;Mumbai suited me.&quot; Drink. Drink. Drink some hot tea. I have no religion and cast Fast. Fast. Very good. Just let me.. It's all fit, how can it not be? Lights on. You lowlife, I embraced you with love Is this how you repay my favors? Dare you show me Get out. Go away from here. Master. I'm not sad because the I'm sad because even you I'll take you leave. What have you done? The one whom you loved all your Why? Why did you do this? That's because I love him a lot. And the one who you love the most.. ..you have to sometimes ..for their own benefit. You tell me. What are we left with? Poverty, pain, sorrow and troubles. I didn't want him to He is so young. He has a How could I see his life getting His life was getting ruined. (Crying) I've understood. I've understood that master That slap..that slap was an act. Master..master loves me a lot. Krishna, what.. It's not a doctor's concern. He just said and went that But we'll have to pay the fees. We don't have a money plant Brother, but we will No, it's important to get But it's not necessary that it Sister-in-law is right, brother. Let's get brother admitted Yes, we're just People get treated there as well. You all don't worry about brother. This situation shall never You want to tell the world It's just you who takes care of him. The paltry earnings from ..has gotten into your sister's head. Jyoti, I wanted to ask ..such a humiliating job and The family's respect is ruined And the fact that you wish ..in a charitable hospital would Jyoti, you are crossing your limits. I have learnt to cross limits Where were these ..stole my jewellery and Where were these limits when brother.. ..was taunted of Where were these limits when.. ..the guarantee ..and brother had to As soon as this ..you all lost the love and Today he is neck-deep in debt.. ..and you all are Your ruthlessness is Today he wishes that ..than having deceitful and Well done, Ravi. That slap you've placed ..is a proof of your generosity. Jyoti, it's very simple. The brother on whose wrist you've ..for the past so many years, ..as..as your gift in Didn't you feel ashamed? The sister, who I have ..you slapped that No brother slaps his .. but when a younger ..to behave with her elder brother.. ..it's necessary to slap her No. No. She isn't ill mannered. She just held up a The poor girl didn't ..so irritated at the You better talk clearly, If you hate us so much, ..any ties with us for so many years? Because he promised ..that he'd never let any .. but he didn't know that one day.. ..those children would be He did so much for you. You are forgetting, sister-in-law. That sum of Rs.13,000 ..a business and earned so much ..and that hut didn't belong Whatever he did for us was Don't feel bad, Sister-in-law. ..they are doing it for you both, You must eat two meals a day.. ..but have you ever We are doing as much as we can, ..but brother shouldn't I don't want to ..but I am just Janki. Neither of these two Anyway brother, ..but it is meant for your child, ..that sister-in-law And however you ..but you're a step-brother after all. &quot;My friend, please come back.&quot; &quot;My life is incomplete without you.&quot; &quot;My friend, please come back.&quot; &quot;My life is incomplete without you.&quot; &quot;Come and look at my condition.&quot; &quot;My joys are incomplete without you.&quot; &quot;My friend, please come back.&quot; &quot;You came to my life as a &quot;You came to my life as my &quot;You loved me more &quot;They said you were a stranger.&quot; &quot;They said you were a stranger.&quot; &quot;My friend, please come back.&quot; &quot;My life is incomplete without you.&quot; &quot;My friend, please come back.&quot; &quot;I pray to God that wherever you are, &quot;I pray to God that wherever you are, &quot;I can't forget you in spite of &quot;I always think of you.&quot; &quot;I always think of you.&quot; &quot;My friend, please come back.&quot; &quot;Without you, my life is incomplete.&quot; &quot;My friend, please come back.&quot; What, Brother! How much did you collect? Nothing. Even after working hard all day.. ..and going hungry, I'm at a loss. Brother, this is Mumbai city. If you lose hope so soon, Then what else should I do? How can a man, who earns ..pay back master's If your intentions are good, No. To earn money, a man needs to ..and I am an illiterate What can I do? Everything will be all right. ..will put everything in place. Oh God. Make me worthy enough to 65 of 1. Take one.. Yes. I'm a criminal. Cut it. Take two.. Yes. I'm a criminal and.. Cut it. Take 9.. Action. Yes. I'm a criminal and.. Whose guests are these? Get them out of here. Yes. I'm a criminal. Switch off this light. Change this..change this light. Make-up.. These superstars.. Now stop combing Taking.. Yes.. silence. Are you going Take it up. (Laughing) Who the hell is laughing? Who's that? Hey. Did you laugh? You laughed. Sorry, Sir. What the hell is sorry? Sir, actually you're We all have understood, Do you understand? Do you? Yes. Will you say all these dialogues? I remember all the dialogues. Will you say such a long dialogue He'll feel bad. You will say the dialogues. No, sir. He'll feel bad. You will say the dialogues. Okay, Sir. I'll say them if you want. Go on. Let's see. Yes. I'm a criminal. The people of the dark world I am a disgrace to I know. I know that you hate me. But I believe that no No one is born a criminal. No thief steals for No robber robs for his pleasure. No prostitute sells her Time and circumstances.. Time and circumstances ..and you know very well ..poverty or starvation is not Ever since..ever since, ..thing from life, ..from life that it is not a ..poor, but dying in poverty.. ..is the biggest crime, Bravo. Bravo. It is the biggest crime.. Cut it. Mind blowing. My discovery. (Crowd Applauding) By God, you were outstanding. The truth is that I have Once when India ..when my friend has I don't understand something, Dhanraj. You want to buy Mr. Kumar's mansion.. ..and I want to sell it, in order Then why don't you give me Why are you conducting this auction? You don't understand. When the house gets auctioned.. ..then the dignity of the members There's a saying in Gujarati that ..then you should see to it ..so that he begs and Ravi. Vicky. Ravi, did you hear? Our house is getting auctioned. Why are you so shocked, Sister-in-law? This was sure happen Will you.. ..will you let this heaven-like Vicky. Vicky, this house is not just.. ..made up of lime, sand and stones. Your brother's hard work And..and where will we go Now to each his own. Naina and I have seen We'll go there. And what about me, Sister-in-law? I'm like a guest in this house. If not with you, I'll live But you don't worry, Sister-in-law. I'll arrange for a room Yes, I'll have to pay You'll pay the rent. People sacrifice their lives in Our house is getting auctioned In spite of being the brothers of.. ..such a kind man, Sister-in-law. Vicky, I beg of you. I beg of you. Listen to me. Do something. Do something. Don't let this house get auctioned. Gentlemen, before starting this ..that Mr. Chaudhary will bid Rs.5 million Rs.5.1 million Rs.5.5 million. Come on, gentlemen. Come on. Rs.5.6 million. Keep it going. Rs.5.7 million. Rs.6 million, Rs.6 million. Gentlemen Rs.6 million -1. Rs.6 million -2. No. No. I've..I've done up every single This is my house. This is the temple of our love. This is the paradise of our happiness. I won't let anyone capture this house. I won't let this house get auctioned. I won't let this house get auctioned. Janki. Janki. Janki. Janki. Janki. Open the door, Janki. (Knock On Door) I said open the door, Janki. Janki. Janki, who'll support I know it's The bids of the auction I know. Look, Janki.. Janki. Janki. No, Janki. No. Don't do this. I have no one else but you. If you leave me, I wouldn't survive. No, Janki. Janki. Janki. Janki. Janki. Sister-in-law. No, Sister-in-law. No, Sister-in-law, Sister-in-law, ..so that you leave me forever. I didn't go to the city ..I come back, Look, Sister-in-law. Look.. look.. Look. This pink one, this Look. But I didn't bring a I didn't bring a Cut it. Krishna. Krishna. Dear, don't weep. Krishna. You've done a Good job, dear. Good job. Krishna, let me tell you something. Now no one can stop ..and I well mean it. Click a photograph. Here's the pose. &quot;Mum.. Mum.. Mumbai. &quot;Mum.. Mum.. Mumbai. &quot;Looking at Mumbai's condition, &quot;Mum.. Mum.. Mumbai. &quot;Mum.. Mum.. If we look at the history of ..then we learn that ..different actors were superstars. The first generation ..after that came Rajendra Kumar, ..Amitabh Bachchan and today.. ..Krishna is very Hello. Mr. Krishna, first of all, ..having become a superstar ..how do you feel after The truth is.. ..that all this seems a Okay, Mr. Krishna, it's said.. ..that there's always Today, you're a shining May I know who's responsible for it? There are many people.. ..but Master is the Master. Mr. Krishna, our audience I'd like to tell everyone, Master. This is the name Because God gives and ..but master's always been giving. Today, even though I'm away from him.. ..it's because of his blessings.. ..that thousands of people Even master may be watching this show. Master, you're watching, aren't you? I know that you may be very happy. But you may wonder.. ..why your Krishna hasn't returned. Just a few more days. We're destined to stay away I'll definitely fulfil my promise I'll definitely return. I'll definitely return, Master. 'You don't know where this 'Otherwise, '..girls will queue up '..you won't even get a (Music Playing) &quot;How did I endure the days..&quot; &quot;..and the nights too?&quot; &quot;Oh, Beloved, &quot;Oh, Beloved, &quot;How did I endure the days..&quot; &quot;..and the nights too?&quot; &quot;Oh, Beloved, &quot;Oh, Beloved, &quot;Darling, I missed you everyday.&quot; &quot;Finally, I met you &quot;Darling, I missed you everyday.&quot; &quot;Finally, I met you &quot;Whenever I missed you.&quot; &quot;I would cry in secret for you.&quot; &quot;And I would be engrossed &quot;Neither slept nor remained awake.&quot; &quot;How did I endure the days..&quot; &quot;..and the nights too?&quot; &quot;Oh, Beloved, &quot;Oh, Beloved, &quot;I was so far, yet so near to you.&quot; &quot;I was unlucky only for awhile.&quot; &quot;I was so far, yet so near to you.&quot; &quot;I was unlucky only for awhile.&quot; &quot;I'd glimpse you in the earth..&quot; &quot;I'd look for you in the sky.&quot; &quot;I'd write you love letters when.. ..I'd dream of you.&quot; &quot;How did I endure the days..&quot; &quot;..and the nights too?&quot; &quot;Oh, Beloved, &quot;How did I endure the days..&quot; &quot;..and the nights too?&quot; &quot;Oh, Beloved, &quot;Oh, Beloved, Master, I'm here. Madam. Why is this house locked? Who are you? Whom do you want to meet? Gardener, why is this house locked? Where is master? Mr. Kumar. Oh, you mean him? He was a really nice fellow. He's long gone from here. Where did he go? I don't know, Sir. But nobody saw him hereabouts Auction? Yes, now Mr. Dhanraj Dhanraj? And what about his family? Sir, they were not brothers, And now they're very rich. They've started a factory Both brothers usurped all the money. Mr. Kumar and his younger sister were They left this house as if they But why did master agree? Why did he put up Why did he leave without a protest? What could he do, Sir? He'd become almost crazy. After his wife's death. Krishna, no one knows But it's really good to see you. I've been carrying a Now, I'm really relieved. But Mr. Nagpal, Your wife died, I contracted cancer. What? - This is how a The fire that started in your Krishna, I started that fire.. ..because Dhanraj paid me to do so. I'd started that fire. Dhanraj. Airport, now we must We must meet every one ..in a new avatar and Yes, we must avenge every tear We must avenge the And we swear that unless.. ..and until we avenge sister-in-law's ..we'll not think about anything else. Brother Ravi. Brother Ravi. What is it, Vicky? You will jump with joy Brother, an exporter has If we can get our ..then our lives We'll earn millions. Don't worry, Vicky. I'll prepare such an ..that it will stand out Oh, Brother. That's really great. The quality is excellent. But this order is worth Rs.8 million. And your factory is too small. Can you handle such a large order? We'll deliver the goods on time, Mr.. Mr. Airport. Airport? - Yes, it's Hawai You can call me Mr. Adda if you want. Oh, Adda. Mr. Adda, at least give us one chance. Oh, I like your sincerity. Just a minute. Sir, both partners of What, Sir? How do they look? Well, they are quite handsome. Respectable and honest. And Sir, they want to make But Sir, they haven't delivered Yes. Respectable and honest Give them the order. Congratulations. Congratulations. You have bagged the order. There's one thing for you to do. I mean it's the advance. Thank you, Mr. Adda. (Laughing) Bye. Okay. They will borrow Rs.5 million And that's what I want. Brother Krishna, Now what? Now, it's Dhanraj's turn. Dhanraj. (Phone Ringing) Mr. Dhanraj? You own a mansion. Named Swarg. And I want to buy it. But I don't want to sell it. Think about it. I'll give But I still won't agree. Not even for 50? 60? - You don't understand? Look, 70? Who are you? 80? What's so special about this mansion? I mean to say that.. 90. Wait a minute. Wait. If you want it so much, I want to ask you one thing. But I hope you're not joking, right? I don't do that. Okay, okay. Then come with the money, I've already prepared the documents. Very good. My man is waiting outside Just go and open the door. Okay. Wait a minute. Don't hang up. Good morning. Here are the documents and Come in. Please, come in. Come in. Please, come in. Pal, how did you know that.. ..I'd definitely close Dhanraj, I know a man's worth. I know everyone's breaking point. Take. - You know there's a saying Don't deal with a man But I'm dealing with you folks Because it's profitable for me. Take. Just want to Does your boss want to send No, his plan's totally different. He wants to ground high-flying folks. Pen. Good day. And enjoy yourself, please. &quot;The money's arrived.&quot; &quot;The money's arrived.&quot; &quot;It's tune is soothing.&quot; &quot;It's tune is soothing.&quot; &quot;The money's arrived.&quot; (Phone Ringing) Coming. Hello.. What? Fire in the factory? Who are you? - I'm the watchman.. Watchman. Hey, fetch the car. Fetch the car. Fetch the car. There's a fire in the factory. (Multiple Talking At Once) Direct the water over there. There. Fool! No. No. My factory. Dhanraj. Krishna? You? I've come here to Do you remember, Dhanraj? We've seen this sight before. The only difference is, ..and today, I am. I know it. I know now. You've done this. You've done this. I know it. Dhanraj, just think that God's You've fallen on bad times, Dhanraj. Your mill caught fire and there.. ..you sold off Swarg I didn't get you. Just think what will happen if you Hey. This can't be. This will never happen. There's a saying in every God inflicts punishment soundlessly. No. Greetings. Greetings. Please come. What will you have? We are here to remind.. ..you that tomorrow is the 13th. Don't worry, Mr. Tolani. You'll get back your The goods are ready. Once you deliver the goods we Greetings. Greetings, Mr. Adda. Mr. Adda. I'm not Adda. I'm Chaddha. Oh, Mr. Chaddha. Mr. Chaddha, your goods are ready. Goods. What goods? What type of goods? From where? Who are you? I guess you haven't recognised us. Sir, you'd given us We've readied your I think you've forgotten. Yes, right. So, let's be clear. Forget? What are you saying, Mr. Adda? Mr. Chaddha, please don't fool around. We might die also. What can I do if you're going to die? It's all right, We want to meet your boss. Then go right and turn left. Thank you. - Thank you. Well, that's the boss's cabin. Boss, your manager claims that.. ..you don't want to Don't take such a drastic We'll have to auction everything. Sir, we'll be ruined. That's what I want. Krishna? Krishna. Krishna who was abused and slapped. Krishna who was ..after being falsely So, you're avenging that? I've already But how can I forget How can I forget the Do you remember.. ..how you changed your Do you remember your refusal Do you remember the Do you remember forcing Mr. Vicky, you don't But Krishna recalls everything. I'm not going to take Go and complain Go to court if you want. Go. Now you'll know how it feels.. ..when the lenders come You'll learn what it is to You'll learn what it is to Now, you'll learn. Go. Leave. Get lost. Leave, before I summon my watchman Just get out. I say, get lost. Forgive me, Master. Forgive me. Hey, what's wrong? Why are you so sad on Now you've already taken You've got back your Swarg. ..Swarg(Heaven) can't be But tomorrow, ..where he'd found me I believe my prayers How can the medicine Are you hungry? You've been starving Yet, you claim you're not hungry? I'll just be back. Oh, God.. ..I've exhausted myself looking for master. In what plight. God, you've bestowed But without master, it means nothing. God, please let me meet him. Let me meet him. Sit. Sit. Brother, please sit. Mr. Krishna is serving Master. Master. How did it come to this, Master? How did it come to this? Son. Krishna, our fate betrayed.. ..us after you left us. I lost everything. Your madam also left me. Yes, yes, I know. Master, I know all about it. I'm meeting you Master. How is ma'am? He's Krishna. Krishna. (Multiple Talking At Once) He's Krishna. Krishna. I want an autograph. Autograph. Autograph, please. Autograph, please. Autograph, please. Yes. You folks are just going Won't you come in? Let's go, Master. Swarg is nothing, (Music Playing) Krishna? Master, I've called them over. You called them? Sir, they've already received Now they're sad, Please forgive them. Forgive them? Shall I forgive them? Shall I forgive them? They killed my wife and Don't say that, Brother. Younger ones always err.. ..but elders must You silly goose.. ..you may have forgotten that you They have wounded me in such a way.. ..that I'm unable to forgive ..leave aside in this life. Don't be so harsh on them. If you won't support them when ..then who else will support them? And recall what sister-in-law said? &quot;The one who doesn't know to forgive.. ..is not forgiven by God.&quot; Jyoti, even if God ..not forgiving them, ..but I will not give them If..if I forgive them today.. ..then all those brothers who take ..like a father will never forgive me. Jyoti, it's very simple. If today these people shed ..the bad times that have befallen.. ..them then can you assure ..with changing fortunes, these Can you assure me about this? No. You can't assure me about this. Krishna, get these people out of here. I'm feeling suffocated. (Vo) 'One day, you'd promised me that.. ..you'll never let 'And today.. ..you feel suffocated on 'Did you forget your promise?' 'You broke your promise.' Krishna. I'll get the doctor.. - No. You.. you've returned all My.. my.. brothers.. ..my brothers.. my wealth.. My dignity.. my dignity.. You've done a lot of favours for me. Do.. do me a last favour. Tell me, Master. Just order me. Marry.. marry Jyoti.. This fool.. ..loves you a lot.. Marry.. marry her.. Janki.. Krishna.. your Master. Brother. Master. What did you do, Master? Your life lay in your palm Master.. &quot;How will I repay your favours?&quot; &quot;My tears beseech me.&quot; &quot;My tears beseech me.&quot;