*All subtitles in this video are from Google Translate Hello I'm Moon. Today we came to the northwest corner of Tianjin's famous snack street . There are a lot of traditional delicacies here. Let's take a look at them one by one. Let me introduce to you the first delicacy: Mendeng meat pie. Why is it called Mendeng? The meat pie is famous because it is shaped like the doornails on the city gates in ancient times . It is also said to be from the imperial palace during the Qing Dynasty. A snack made by the Imperial Kitchen for the Empress Dowager Cixi. Cixi liked it very much, so she asked the name. The chef suddenly thought it looked like doornails on the palace door, so he answered that it was a doornail. The meat pie . The meat filling is beef filling. As you can see , put the wrapped meatloaf in the pot first and it will take about half an hour to come out of the oven. Then the meat will be cooked. The patty will taste better if you eat it while it's hot, because the patty has a lot of oil and the butter can easily solidify. Background sound: That's enough. It's okay. Background sound: You do it first. Background sound: Take your time and you'll do it later. My background sound: That's a big portion. Just make it. Background sound: Three pieces of noodles. How many buns are there? There are about fifty in total. It's not necessarily sixty sometimes, it's probably sixty, because it takes about half an hour to come out of the oven , so during this half hour, people will come to pay for it, and when it comes out of the oven, there will be many people coming to get the meat. Cake background sound: One, right? What you see now is ripe pear cake and ripe pear paste . It is actually very popular among children in Tianjin. There are a total of ten flavors of a snack. If you have never tried it, I suggest you try the full flavor . Haha. I have eaten every flavor . There are 10 flavors in total. Yes, there are 10 flavors in total . Bean paste, red fruit, dried apricot and sour cake, White sugar, brown sugar , oranges, strawberries, and chocolate are mainly made from rice ground into powder residue and steamed as the main ingredient . How about making it? Put the rice noodles in a wooden steamer and steam them in a steamer for a short while. Then there are various flavors. In terms of taste, it is a soft double version. You can also have a double version. Do you want a double version? Orange, strawberry. I'll give you a double combination of orange and strawberry. Background sound: Oops. Background sound: It's all exposed. It's so edible. Can I have six in this portion ? Six big boxes cost ten yuan per serving. Ten yuan for a small portion . Just give him this white one. This is him. This is the raw material for the rice cereal he is about to eat. Prepare it for him. Go back and give it to him. Ah, now you break it open and give it to him. It costs ten yuan for a box. Is it delicious? Look, this box is gone. Our cakes are worth more than the box . Our cakes are all hand-baked for ten yuan. Background sound: That's his mother. Oh, I'm leaving . Background sound: I'm going to buy something to eat. Background sound: Go buy that biscuit. Oh, I said it's fast, but you can't listen. Got it, I 'm right. He looked at me like that . I was so embarrassed. Hahaha. Watching others eat, and then he looked at you, you're so cute and you can't eat. Haha, why? Why can't you eat it? Background sound: Is this the first thing you see at the door? Background sound: The food we ate in Ancient Culture Street yesterday was terrible. Background sound: The noodles are neither delicious nor delicious . Sound: This is delicious. Background sound: I can't understand a word of it . Hahaha, I meet my fellow countrymen. We can't understand what you said. The double layer must be double layer. One layer cannot be opened. What should I do ? Thank you. How many copies did we buy? I bought six small portions. Small portions. It costs ten yuan for six small portions. It 's ten yuan for six pairs . Why don't you have to break it tomorrow? It can't be broken. I send express delivery every day. I have 4 groups. How many days can this be saved? It can be kept for 3-5 days. No problem. 3-5 days. No problem for normal storage. 3-5 days. It is too long. Our sauce does not contain preservatives. Tea soup originated from the Ming Dynasty in China. So why is it called tea soup? Because it is brewed with hot water. It's actually just like making tea, so it's called tea soup. What does it taste like ? It's sweet . It's sweet. It's an intangible cultural heritage of Tianjin. The snack has hundreds of years of history . What kind of rice is this? For two liters of rice, do you want a regular one? Ordinary, white sugar can be used to sweeten it. I can also use sesame, peanuts, raisins , what is this, dried tangerine peel? Should I eat it now or pack it ? Pack it. How to make fried cake is a traditional dessert, which is filled with red bean paste , and then the bean paste filling is wrapped in dough and rolled into a round shape. Then put it in the oil pan . Background sound: Come here to get it. Background sound: People who like to eat cold food like it hot. Background sound: Steam it in a pan or put it in the microwave. Background sound: When I come back from work, the cooking is messy and terrible. A traditional delicacy in Tianjin that began in the Ming Dynasty. It has a very soft texture and comes in different flavors, such as bean paste filling and red fruit. What is mandarin duck stuffing ? It is red fruit and bean paste stuffing. Eat it slowly when it comes out of the pot, otherwise it will burn easily. The outside is chewy and the inside is soft and waxy. Everyone here takes one portion at a time. If you go to buy one, you can see that there are a lot of people queuing up in this store. You can also order the sesame oil one day in advance. Big Eight Pieces is a traditional Chinese pastry originated from the Ming and Qing Dynasties and spread to the people. Why is it called the Big Eight Sword? Because it has eight kinds of fillings, such as hawthorn rose, green plum, sugar, bean paste, jujube paste, salt and pepper, raisins, etc. The Big Eight Sword was not the name of the pastry originally . The imperial chefs of the colorful noodles used for festivals in the Qing Dynasty would print the auspicious words such as blessing, wealth, longevity, good health and good luck on the surface. The melted noodles were placed on 8 plates and arranged in shapes . In the late Qing Dynasty, the imperial chefs in Beijing came to Tianjin one after another and brought the palace snacks to old Tianjin. Gradually, the taste of Beijing eight pieces also changed according to the tastes of Tianjin people. I made my own Jinba pieces, which are often given as gifts to relatives and friends in modern times. Two red fruits and two black sesame seeds. These two are sweet and salty . It's the same. No, no, no. Yes, if you want that chocolate, I'll order one for you, and then give me another chocolate. Chocolate, this is okay, okay , that's half a pound. Roll the circle with some fillings rolled in dough. Is there any filling inside? Bean sprouts , coriander, shredded carrots, etc. Background sound: Give me another pan-fried bun Jingyin: How much does it cost? Background sound: Ah, yes, how much does it cost? Everyone is familiar with the pancake fruit. I saw that a mung bean is ground into batter. Come and have a few bags. I'll have an old-flavored pancake. You're so delicious. I'll have one. Scan the code for 12 yuan , then spread the mung bean batter into a pancake and add some eggs or chopped green onions. Or some of the ingredients that some customers want, do you want chili? A little bit spicy , not too much, a little bit. Which one do you want? Thin and crispy, and fried dough sticks. Which one does the beauty want? Thin and crispy? You want fried dough sticks? I want it thin and crispy. Delicious . Cut into three parts . I won't eat those three portions. You won't eat them. You won't eat them. You can reach out and catch them. You won't be allowed to take it , just take it like this. Don't hold it. If you hold it, it will be hot. Hey, if you don't hold it, it won't be hot. If you haven't eaten it, you will be fooled. Otherwise, if you say your house is so expensive, who can give it to me? Why do you want to scan the code for 12 yuan ? I will eat everything. If the boss fights with me, I will drive immediately. I have to wait. Let's take half for each person , right, and then split it in half and look at other people's ones. Eight, right? Yes, it's 48 yuan for us. That's right. The spicy one without Sichuan peppercorns is 48 yuan. It should be cooked for six yuan and nothing else. Let's take a look. I can see these at a glance . How much does it cost for 6 pieces of mushrooms? Do you want 6 pieces of mushrooms? How do you sell them ? The boss has packed the soy sauce, right? Give it to me. Then you can see how to mix it well . It looks good. This is what I want. It looks red like this. I want more red words. Order two new ones for me because they have different flavors . 2 for 5. Give me two fried cakes, one fried cake, those two fried cakes, two fried cakes, right? Right now, sister, wait a moment. I'll get one of the ruela fruit. No more. I also want two fried cakes. I want two fried cakes. How much are they? 5 yuan . Pay on WeChat. 5 yuan . How much are fried cakes? Two fried cakes. 5. Give me two. It seems that what I bought is this. This is also chicken. This is also chicken leg meat, but it has a different texture. Yes, yes, it has a different taste.