(moderate bluesy rock music) What do you guys think that is? (laughing) My business has taken off My first year, I did like 200 grand, second year 200, third year 1.5. - So I went from makin' to 200,000 dollars last year. Not only that, I've All the work is on the weekends. - There's days we go There's days we go out and make $3000. It depends on the job we're doing, how many jobs we're doing that day. There's been days where we've made upwards of 6,000 to 8,000 dollars in one day. How much you wanna hustle. If some guys might be okay goin' out and makin' a couple hundred bucks, we go out and maximize - You have to be ambitious. Nobody's gonna give you anything. That's the mentality And you know, being good It always helps as well, you So, you know. - [Cameraman] Yeah. You're - Yeah. (laughing) Talkin' about that guy. (upbeat music) - If you have no budget to get started, go rent a machine and then go wash five or around at the end of the day You're lookin' at 600 to 800 dollars for your equipment: a pressure If you're looking to put all of it on a trailer, obviously the cost can go up to 25,000 dollars, and - My first trailer build which at the beginning I financed it. I don't think there's anything wrong with that To get started. It's gonna make you money, as to get out there and get the work, you're gonna make that This build, from start to finish, was probably around 25 grand. - I started out with the biggest equipment that you could get, fortunately for us. A rig like this would cost But it's a moneymaker, dual moneymaker. You can pressure wash and (upbeat music) - I think when you're first to start with flat surfaces like driveways and sidewalks and walkways. They're the biggest So, the transformation is pretty dramatic, and there's little chance - The best services to get Go in a neighborhood and and offer them a special That'll get your foot in the door. We live in Florida, flip to wear for a living, you - I looked at my market. There was not many people in my area that clean trash cans, and I was like, &quot;Okay, I can make this work.&quot; And my mentality is, okay, and building, and that means each house that's gettin' built is And then one day- - My dad told me to take and I was like, &quot;No, The trash can smells super bad.&quot; And I told him that. And then he was like, &quot;What about we start a I think we could do that. That sounds pretty easy and stuff.&quot; So that's what we did. (mellow ambient music) - First customer, I would say, I'm pretty sure was friends and family. My wife was out in the with me for a good year and a half. - And I think in the beginning when I used to go out with Josh, a husband and wife duo out in the fields, willing to do that together We would kind of just grab into neighborhoods that we And what we would do a postcard where it had of services that we offered, and say, &quot;Okay, their roof is dirty. Their sidewalk's dirty. So let's go ahead and just And we would check off give them a total for those on their door or leave it on their garage. And if someone happened just sitting there playing Josh would go introduce And that's actually what of business in the beginning. - My first customers I got just postin' in my local and Nextdoor page. From there, each job that I got I did what I call a five around. For every job that I did, on five houses around And that's how I started getting business in the neighborhood. - So what I did was I got my neighborhood Facebook group, and offered free cleanings to everyone who wanted to sign up. And then once I did the free cleaning, they signed up and they've been That's kind of how I (upbeat music) - The only chemical we get which is a fancy name for bleach. We call it SH, so when the we're talking about bleach, basically. We mix it with water, and we This is the mix valve here. So we have bleach, soap, and water, and we would just adjust our bleach with this valve right here. In this case, we're - This is where we typically We have spots all over where we're gonna be working. This is the one I fill It's just straight chlorine right now. So I use that and I mix So I have one tank that's one tank that's straight chlorine. We do have more of a soft wash approach. We use a lot more chemicals - We don't use any chemicals, we just use straight hot water, which does a thorough job. And we try to be eco-friendly. (energetic jazz music) You have a good day today? - Yeah. He picks me up from school. We drive to our first trash can, then we grab the trash to the trailer, and then we press a button so the trailer can grab the trash cans. And then we have this sprayer at the top of the machine that sprays (water whooshing) And then we bring 'em down, and then we spray them and then we bring them - And that's how trash can by the best company in the United States, Advanced Bin Cleaning. KJ, you did a great job. (upbeat music) - That thing's 150 pounds. It doesn't look like it, but it's- All right, so this is a four water fed pole system. The reason this is superior because when you use squeegees, on the window that dust can stick to. With a purified water system left, and since there's in the water, it doesn't leave any spots. So you get a spot free finish with a water fed system like this. - What we did here was, We use no pressure on the roofs at all. It's just strictly a a little detergent in there. And all we do is we just let it sit, spray it down on the roof, let it dwell. We don't do any rinsing at all. The shingles or or if it's concrete tiles, whatever the material it is will absorb the product and over for the next several months, continue fighting off the mold. This process works a lot better. It's a lot safer for the roof It's also gonna last a lot longer. It's a lot less damaging What you saw my helper doing the plants rinsed down, 'cause those chemicals Whether they have gutters or their plants very thoroughly. - It's more about dogged about skills, to be honest with you. - You have to have the (water whooshing) onto a 3,500 PSI, eight for hours on end, which is - I think it's important to be personable. Bein' organized is very - It's not rocket science. You're spraying water. You can learn that pretty quick. You'll make mistakes, but that's okay. You just keep working. (typing on keyboard)