This is my review of Although to be fair, it's probably gonna be a because if you know anything you know this probably, should be a very exciting launch for me. I have been a huge fan of the original Alpha 1 since it came out. I, at one point, switched I still use it for all my lens tests. I've compared it favorably I talk about the Alpha 1 a lot. I love it, I think it's But just because I don't think this is as exciting of a launch as it could be or should be for me, doesn't mean there's anything In fact, the Alpha 1 Mark II is definitely Sony's best camera. It's damn near perfect. And so on that note, when it's probably personally my the Alpha 1 Mark II. But because of the Alpha 1 and because of the way and the cameras that come afterwards and the way they trickle and how they treat firmware updates and the firmware updates because of all this, it's hard for me just to look at the Alpha 1 Mark II just as a camera in a vacuum I would like to take you on a journey of my swirling mind about But before that, I should Sony did lend me this I don't get to keep it, Sony doesn't get any input nor do they get to see This video does have an and that's Angelbird and the new AV Pro CFExpress Okay, first of all, the sensor, it is the same sensor So same resolution, I I busted out the Xyla 21, same I tested the rolling shutter, same results for rolling shutter. Now there are some other components that have been added into this camera. For instance, it has So I have no problem with this camera now having the more and it even has the auto mode, the auto switching mode, which is great. So you don't just have to go in and switch it to people, then You can just put it on auto, and it is very good at detecting. That's a cat, that's a person, that's a plane, that's a train. And it can track all these things. It does really well, and and it doesn't just track eyes, it tracks pose estimation and everything. It's great. We've talked about this about the a7R V when they first, I think that's when they first launched the AI processing unit. It's great and it makes this than the Alpha 1, so that's good. Also, it has a new IBIS module, So the module is better and improved, and apparently, it's rated for 8.5 stops, instead of the 5.5 on the Mark I. And I have some test footage where, you know, in walking tests, in standard, I didn't between the Alpha 1 despite it having three more stops. But when we get to active, it definitely seems to especially you can see and then in the jogging the active on the Mark II is significantly better So in video, you know, If you're just doing I think that the Mark I is And I also did some long focal length static handheld stuff on active to see if there was a big difference. And again, yeah, at 400 mil with active stabilization on, the Mark II did seem to have fewer of those jerk corrections So overall, I, you know, I but yes, the stabilization and there are more modes now. Now you have the dynamic which we've talked about Sony cameras as well, which is better. They also have that framing stabilizer. So if you're willing you can have it sort of stabilize the portion of the frame and then use a lot more real estate to keep them super smooth. And with that, they also have So if you wanna film yourself, you know, all those new like vloggy and basically you can put and walk back and forth and It has all that stuff that we saw on like the ZV cameras And so that's all been included and a lot of that is hardware based. So I don't really have any complaints when it comes to that being and not on the original Alpha 1 because this camera also apparently has an improved processor. So you know, maybe that necessitates some of those more advanced, you know, AI features and stuff like that. And then physically, this is that we saw with the a9 III, And like I mentioned about that means you get, you where the shutter button is, You get deeper, more pronounced It's got a new function which is normally used for that we'll get into. And then most importantly, it has the new 15-axis everything screen that I absolutely adore. And this is probably the biggest thing that makes me wanna buy it Primarily it's for this reason. So if you guys haven't basically it's the same type of screen that you have on the Alpha bring it out and tilt it like this. But it also is a fully that rotates and you can Hell, if you were shooting for you know, TikTok or whatever, you could actually flip this screen up, you could do this, and And you can kind of almost a vertical version of yourself Like it's-- every angle's possible. But the main one for me is that if ever I wanna on the Alpha 1, I always where once you get low, to put this screen on So I wish I had a flip out screen, but when I'm behind the camera, I don't actually like I like having the screen right where I can look down on it. Well, with this screen, you can do both. You wanna shoot low angles, there you go. You wanna be behind the camera, It's great, it's thin, It's the best screen One thing to consider though is that because this is and not an Alpha 1 body, the for this camera if you wanna would be the a9 III's grip So the old grip is not Other than that, everything in terms of what you're used to. Same battery, same card slots, and pretty much all the same ports. Although they did on this one to be a 2.5 gig port, instead of the typical one gig port. And speaking of those card slots, if you wanna get yourself storage media for this camera, you have to see the new products from the sponsor of Firstly, they've got a new line of AV Pro CF Express cards They're all certified to VPG 400 making these cards the best and price available in my opinion. And they're all made up to and reliability standards. They're finely crafted by a dedicated team of storage engineers that engineering, assembly, and testing. And it really shows with a These are available in SD But I have the CF-A version here. These are by far my new because they're a whole The fit and finish of and even the included cord is It's durable, flexible, braided, and delivers up to 20 gigabits per second, but it's also removable. And the recess that remains, allows you to connect other even perfectly fits my It's flush fit and won't or on an angle so you never have to worry about your reader sliding or cancelling or corrupting your transfer. And speaking of corruption prevention, they have a read-only switch to prevent your system from to your card when you connect it, which will drastically reduce the likelihood of card corruption. And it even prevents you from off your card when in that mode. But you can also switch it to write mode, put on the included cap, and now you have a portable with pretty much every camera that offers external USB updated easily to ensure with the latest cameras if which gets even more value and life out of your CFexpress as external camera media or Angelbird knocked it out and I recommend you check them out using the link in the description. There's also a couple with the Mark II that you which is you get their new operates on USB-C and that you can charge like two batteries really So that's cool. And then also this is which is included, but then they also include which is, you know, just a bit thicker and a little bit more So you have those options. I actually like the that's included in the box. So that's nice. Now those smaller features and some of these are more contentious because they're like, could they not have just been added in firmware? First of all, Pre-Capture, this camera now offers meaning that you can set it so that even if you were a second late on pressing the shutter button, you can still get those photos So that's sweet. Now when I talk about these features, by the way, I'm comparing assuming that you have the meaning the one that had brought focus breathing compensation and the 4K30 webcam and stuff like that. These are the features that are still in addition that you will find on the Alpha 1 Mark II. Speed Boost, which was, on the a9 III. So you can set it to this but basically you could be maybe 10 frames a second, and then you could set Speed Boost to go all the way up to It's not as significant where that Speed Boost can to like 120 frames per second. But it's still cool to just sort of a quick little so many frames the rest of the time. And then, like we already Framing Stabilizer, all the vloggy features if they're all included here. They're not on the Alpha 1. Maybe they require that extra User LUTs, however, is on here and is not on that camera special hardware to get user LUTs. There's no excuse why in the firmware update over there. There's a new function multi-shot pixel image they're calling it NR Shooting, which is basically you can and then consolidate to basically remove the It's gonna like noise average and then like lower So that's called NR Shooting There's a Bulb Timer that's if that's something that's useful to you, as well as Full-Time DMF. There are more refined especially when it comes to speed change and stuff like that. There's some better autofocus, more refined controls, which is nice. Focus bracketing, when of those macro lenses recently, I didn't realize that my Alpha 1 didn't have focus bracketing and I had to switch to a just to test the focus bracketing. And I was like, how does it not have that? This one has the focus And this one still doesn't have it. Log Shooting Mode for video, where instead of setting it's like in image quality, It still has an issue with it though, even all the way up to this camera. And it's still not in the original Alpha 1 but that's in here now. They also have the 1/48th that they started releasing recently. So if you're shooting at 24p, you can set your shutter speed to exactly, you know, 1/48th. Again, that could have been added with firmware to the original Alpha 1. It's also gonna be 6,500 US dollars, the same price that the But I assume the Alpha 1 price is gonna go down when this one came out. And it's possible this one than that 6,500, but it'll be And so the big question of this video is gonna be how much is everything I just said worth in a dollar amount, if you're an existing Alpha 1 user? If you don't have an Alpha 1, say maybe you're an a7 IV user, and you were thinking about but there were some and you weren't sure if you Well now here you go. Get the Alpha 1 Mark II. It's got everything. It's like I said, everything it's in here, and it does it well. And for things that it didn't change, like the video performance, it didn't need to 'cause on the Alpha 1 is probably still And a lot of the photography related stuff is still Sony's best. When I said the dynamic this is still one of Sony's cameras three years later. So they didn't really need to improve it. It's still their number one, right? So you're still getting all that, but now you're getting all the features and from every line from the from the a9 line, from the, So it's a no brainer. It's gonna be the same price. Just buy this. It gets more complicated once you see the used market and then you have, that's when you start to have to ask the question better is this camera? And that is really tricky. I can tell you some things who's been using the of how much value I feel would add to me. But take this with a grain of salt. The new screen I would pay, like if I could just somehow, if I could send this camera into Sony and get this screen added to that, how much would I pay for that? I would pay quite a bit, like Honestly, like that's how much better once you've used one 10-way flippy screens. I would say up to a thousand dollars. Add in the other things, the subject detection AI processing chip, the better ergonomics and stuff. If you told me that you $2,000 more, I wouldn't argue with you. I'd say that seems reasonable. $4,000 more seems like a stretch to kind of set a perspective there. So let's say you have an Alpha 1 and you can sell it on the $4,500 and then you're and buy an Alpha 1 Mark If you can only get three and you gotta spend another $3500 over here, I don't know that you're gonna appreciate $3,500 improvement. I really don't. And obviously this is gonna be but if you can turn in your Alpha 1, plus 1500 bucks, and I think that was a good deal. But now let's talk a little bit more to those users who are considering buying an Alpha 1 Mark II from zero. Like they don't have an Alpha 1 already. And also, sort of give my official take on the people that have been asking me, Gerald, what do you think of and what do you think about, you know, now that there's firmware and and about how Sony releases cameras? Let's talk about all that. If you've been watching you know that I actually for a long time to Sony about the firmware for cameras like the a7S III and the Alpha 1. When focus breathing I complained over and over again, saying, when are we gonna focus Or here's one that still is missing that we didn't touch on on the Alpha 1. In video, you still You can do it in photo but not in video. But the a7 IV, which I'm does have animal eye detection in video. It doesn't have an AI processing you know, anything fancy hardware-wise, it just has it, but they But the Alpha 1 is the flagship. But how can the flagship as simple as that, that you'd to the different types of customers that would be using the Alpha 1? And there's a lot of examples of that. But this brings us to the point of buying a product for what it is today. If you are to buy the Alpha 1 Mark II, right now, it has everything But you should probably I don't have any information Next year there's gonna be, what, an a7 V or something like that. And the a7 V might be to the Alpha 1 Mark II, and it might inherit a lot of the things that this camera has. It'll be significantly cheaper, probably less than half the price. This is me based on what, how and they'll probably that we didn't think of Who knows what it is? And it might be something cool. And you know what? This flagship, Alpha 1 Mark And historically if we look at how Sony handled the Alpha 1, it's probably not gonna have it for three years if it even gets it. And when it does, it might mess or something when you Now, I'm not saying people can't improve from what they did historically, but until we see a track record of Sony keeping a flagship it's best to assume that Now does that mean that Sony is wrong or doing something wrong? I don't think it necessarily does. I think as consumers we need for what it is today, not for especially when something costs $6,500. You better think that this camera is the answer as it is because Sony has a weird way of releasing cameras that is pretty sweet for which is that if you're and you're waiting for the trickle down, you actually get a pretty sweet thing. You'll get the, you know, eventually it'll be a, It was like a ZV-E10 II? Eventually it'll work its way down to a thousand dollars camera that a flagship had a couple years ago. Actually, that thousand dollars that the flagship doesn't have. So that's cool. If you're somebody who's you could just wait and then you'll get a It's annoying if you're the and you still don't have those features. You should be aware that a year from now, you're when a, you know, thousand that can do a whole bunch of and add something that Don't be frustrated, I guess. Be happy that the camera that Is that what we're supposed to be doing? Sony, this is an incredible camera, but please, next year when you make an a7 V or whatever you make and into the a7 V, at the time also announce a firmware to get that same feature, please. That's the only way you can keep both sets of customers happy, and you want your flagship so that when you release they're not making videos like this, and they're not debating whether or not they should just wait for that probably has all these You can fix that, Sony, And while you're on the fixing that train, I have two complaints, two issues that still need to be fixed, and I've been complaining but I kind of let it slide but we're bringing 'em back up since we're talking One is Log shooting in HDMI I've talked about these a lot, The first one, maybe the more minor one, is you've been putting Log Shooting mode into your cameras the last, you know, half a dozen I like it. I like that you can use user LUTs, Alpha 1 Mark II's got user LUTs. You can preview the The Log Shooting menu is very, you know, slick and succinct compared I think it's great. However, when you enable you can no longer output You can go into picture profile and create a Log picture profile and then you can output 4K over HDMI. But whenever you enable Log it doesn't make any sense, some bad line of code somewhere in the OS. Please fix it, please. It's been a couple years now. The second thing, which is because it's been going on for longer and it's a bigger deal, it's been going on since the a7S III. These cameras offer an which is more efficient and a better use of card space obviously, however, you cannot when an NTSC in H.265 and more problematic, if you're a PAL shooter, you can't shoot 25p when shooting H.265. H.264, you have 'em all: 24, 30, 60, 120 or 25, 50, 100 for PAL. But as soon as you switch to H.265, you just skip one, it goes 24, 60, 120. If you can do 60, you can do 30. If you can do 50 and Now I get that because in the last 10 cameras and I've been complaining and at every, you know, and I'm sure other people have as well. Probably deep in the is some piece of code that prevents that from being an easy fix. And you're trying to figure out a way to like do it without Fix it. You gotta find a way to fix it. It's more important to than it is to make so many cameras. You already have so many with each one and you're that releases 20 cameras a year that each one somehow And I applaud you for that because other brands are put too many features in a new camera because they don't wanna make Sony's just like, we'll We don't care. This camera's 200 bucks and it does everything That's great. But then also go back and I'm done telling you about the issues. Fix them. Is that the end of the rant? Is the Alpha 1 Mark II any good? Was that the question of this video? Yes, it's better. It's Sony's best camera. As far as Sony cameras go, as far as everything I've come to know about what makes a Sony this thing's damn near perfect. So good job in that regard. Let's just keep it perfect by keeping it up to date without bricking other features if we can. Okay? Alright... I'm done.