That is ShortTiger. It's the other orange Yoshi, for Shortcat. Hey, we bumped, we bumped. Okay, but I didn't get to race ShortTiger 'cause right? But now we can actually race. Let's go for mini turbo, but you can always save yourself with now. ShortTiger's ahead of me. I'm gonna go around coin. I'm gonna chain right here and hope I get a let's go. That is so good. What I mean by broken from me because of the gap jump shortcut and here going into the cannon. Look at their distance Okay, triple mushrooms is great, um, for but that's asking for a lot. Uh, I'm gonna use crossing the boxes. Oh, trap. Okay, just gonna chance of a shock in play. [laughs] I'm about to Two broken item sets. Oh, see, like this is quite shortcuts, but sometimes bagging is just kind so I have three mushrooms. This could get stolen, them. I'm gonna use one right after the cannon. me on the shortcut but hopefully hold it and this is good. Low air, perfect. Didn't have to couldn't get it. [Music] Okay, well, that's fine. the track, so I was just holding it for a blue people's items are gone and there's no blue shell. the fence there instead of drifting. Yeah, let's I'm playing a first to 10 against ShortTiger, as in first place. This is good. This is really good. get away with bagging this track, but I only do close to me. At least they only had a coin. People green shells in the cannon 'cause it gets boosted kind of funny, but it's also kind of lame when he almost ran into the banana. Great shortcut, boost panel. I like to measure how well I did the the boost panel. Wow, I have a bit of a lead right try and go up for that coin. Oh, yeah, I only Oh, that is so annoying. I just got the super What? What? Okay, I didn't get the hop, but did Oh, nice. Someone might shock soon. I'm gonna use Okay, so I'm gonna chain item here. Oh, nice. Get just gonna use this and get rid of your green I maintained fourth place. The villager didn't in ninth. Let's go, that's 2-0. Cats are better full front run. I'm going to aim for the coins. and just toss-- oh, I brake drifted, it didn't coins here and just gonna start bagging it up. I just do this. Bagging is actually many items you can get and how much chaos coins on Baby Park sometimes, so bagging can so I want to make sure I get the items. This is don't hit me. Let's just use it. There's red Did I use that shock from fourth? That was crazy. down. No one's near me right now. I don't have to The star is lasting the entire rest of the race. good at Baby Park. I'm a natural at this track, I was a baby. Starting Dragon Driftway from to get bumped off the shortcut unless people we're back in first. Actually, I have a bigger Nice. Okay, that's always the scariest part 'cause you can get bumped in the shortcut and it-- it can mess up your line as well. Oh, no, I huge. Already? We can already go wide for coin I think people probably bumped each other off on how I got this lead. A lead is never safe on gain a big lead on this track, and then somehow All right, good, good. This is good. I'm getting you here. Oh, it affects this spot, though. Okay, shocked off this shortcut, but it's super worth banana on the ground, please. Nope. Okay, okay, this is right before the item set. Come on. No, I invincibility, it wouldn't have mattered. It would Okay, person has a mushroom. Yeah, I always find it's okay. Even if I used the green shell I was having such a good time, I forgot I was it rough out here. I'm really considering so first place is bagging. Um, I'm just gonna run Snow Land 'cause honestly, it's a pretty bad just go for items. You know what? I've gotten, so I'm gonna go for items here. Okay, pretty Blue shell somewhere near. Who did it go for? might need to save a mushroom then. But we're all just in case I end up in first after the shortcut me. Wow, okay, well, saving a mushroom for that Oh, okay, scary stuff. I'm gonna hold these bit safer. It's so chaotic right here at the end. wow, I got eighth. That wasn't even that bad of running this track again. Okay, I actually and let's see if I can put that practice this is not good. Red shells everywhere. Slow to dodge items. Don't just go as fast as I can. I haven't gotten an item yet all race. Oh, practiced this track too much. I went a little let's just grab that coin and take this the shortcut after practicing this track so and sometimes what you got to do is bag. Okay, I'm just passing people left and you practice a track. Okay, uh, now Another shortcut here, catch up to first a by backing this green right there, or block the two reds at first. I could have won this race this could make the shortcut difficult. Yeah, it lines when I practiced this track. What was--worst ShortTiger switched to Blue Yoshi, so I know So it is now 5-1. ShortTiger is gonna have to step my older videos. Uh, hopefully you guys have seen And if you think about it, a tiger is just a long here. Ooh, mushrooms. This is very nice. I'm gonna banana behind me. We might be okay. Oh, that people here, and we are gonna use, ooh, no. I was and then a mushroom on the shortcut up here, but put me in first place, and I do not want to be in shell. So I'm just gonna use one mushroom here one. A little bit of strategy, strategy with shell me though, like if they're very smart, they hit by the blue shell, which is pointless. So... they didn't hit me because now I will dodge it rid of the blue shell, and now I'm getting hit. horn the blue shell by accident? That happens uses their super horn, and then they just break blue shell, so we're going for shortcut here. that was actually the best-case scenario. Right gone. Oh, they don't know I have this bomb. Let's are. Goodbye. Okay, I'm gonna play it safe here. I box. Another bomb, I'm basically hacking. Okay, Editing shortcat here. I feel so bad. The blue the blue shell for me knowing I was in first but you know what? At this point, you set you're getting that competitive treatment. Plus, now. Enjoy the rest of the video. Wow, we got a off the track at the start. Okay, good. Now people first at the beginning of this track because then Okay, and you want to hop there in the waterfall you're touching the waterfall. If you hop, you but yeah, that's for real. If you go watch the this person must have had a mushroom. Okay, there a red shell going for this guy? What? What? in this game. Holy. Okay, so that was all just a red shell that just like lagged and looked like go too fast here. Nice, nice. Um, with triple never mind. I was gonna just take the shortcut the rest of the race because when a blue shell blue shell can come, and that's about the, so we're just doing okay here. No one's really have, okay, at least no more triple bananas. Okay, so they could start red shelling me at the is actually really, I'm so stupid. I'm so bad at did I not get the double item? And now I'm getting don't learn from my gameplay here. Holy, that was Blue Yoshi? Did ShortTiger disconnect? That would first of 10? Okay, let's hope ShortTiger is just actually disconnect. That would be so sad. Oh no, in last place. You know what, ShortTiger, if sense. Cats live longer than tigers. So ShortTiger And also, are they back on orange Yoshi? That's all the way to 12 and then got like hit by a green me before, so I don't blame you. That can happen. coins. Ooh, okay, so we don't red out first place for me. And there's no like big shortcuts on this so we're just defending first place right now. shell. I don't want to be in first right now. the main thing you want to do is maintain means going as fast as you can, and if that means first. But sometimes that means being in second is like mushroom pass first, that's fine, because it But if I have to red shell to take out first, there's no blue shell the whole race and I get good because you don't want to be in first place eighth because everyone catches up to you and you whole race, which is like, oh, that green shell never teach anything ever again during my races. No one else wanted Toad Circuit. We got my Toad Oh, that was a bad attempt. That brings back accident last race, and that's like I would have because it hit myself. Okay, coins. It's a bagging I have distance from the people behind me. I'm not coins and I had a pretty decent path to the front, can front run bagging tracks. It's just if you're point, just drop backwards. But if you're in first this shortcut. I want red shell protection as shells. And like that shortcut is pretty much as like last race where there's no blue shell. It's I probably noticed that too late, and now I don't not sure, but I'll try to snipe the villager. No, the blue shell is gonna stay locked onto you, you than potentially backing out and then having the Karted. So yeah, I'm happy with second after that. a lot of front running today. I haven't really it's partially because I'm playing Yoshi Scooty which is super good for front running. I just moment. Okay, what are we doing here? Uh, I think all the way to the shortcut on lap two. Oops, the for a track like this. So I'll show you in a sec you can only take on lap two because on lap one, you take a different path. So it's right around and then first place is getting blue this red shell. Potentially trail you. Okay, these are--oh no, I was just gonna say dodge so many red shells. I can but now I just have a coin. Let's take the definitely squish me. Okay, mushrooms behind please give me the item. Thank you. Okay, so if you could just not leave a comment that you can't do that with--I don't even know last. Oh, everything was going so well, and I definitely need to focus. I feel like and so I've just completely lost focus and I'm these mistakes that I'm making right now, and even ran into the banana that I definitely should Hopefully people have--I'm not used to this path. Thank you. The villager--villager always messing item box. I was gonna go for shortcut. I think next lap. Don't steal my star. I hate the Crazy Okay, this is pretty good. I'm I got no item. That's crazy. [Music] here. Thanks for the mushroom boost. Holy. The Okay, stay focused. ShortTiger's good. Just get away from people's Yes! I'm not risking it on that shortcut I just had to focus, and I dodged the match point for me here on Tick Tock Clock, every time that I fail something, I'm always combo as I did when I practiced.&quot; But Yoshi so no excuse now. Well, I mean, I made that alarm is going off. I don't know if you guys can what it's for. Something I'm missing, something not. Beating up ShortTiger is more important. Don't miss the purple mini turbo like last time. my mushroom got stolen. Okay, triple greens right shells. What am I supposed to do? Um, I don't know now, which is bad. We're gonna get coins here. red shelled. Almost did. There's ShortTiger. Oh my. Okay, I made the shortcut. I'm happy about ShortTiger. We got Cheese Land. We have to do it. Two people went backwards. No one's moving. Hey, if you join my lobby with your name as short right? Like, you have to know and start keeping bagging here. Just got to make sure I get these because what else are you gonna do when you're I'm gonna get--okay, good swerve, good swerve. It's been enough time. All right, so we're my 10th coin? There it is. Okay, okay, nice. we go. Use it now for the bullet extension. but you can also go right after the item set. All so I can't get a shock dodge during this part. here. With how far first place is, that would need Yeah, but this is such a great pull. Holy, it's I already committed to the shortcut, so I And it's not gonna take me through this next goodbye. Oh my, and you can't protect against here. I need to watch with my red shell. Come on, I think I just top twoed with ShortTiger. Let's