Welcome to Hollywood Graveyard. Today we conclude our tour filmed by you, the world to visit famous and historical graves In this tour we land back home in California, The Lady in Black, Randy Rhoads, and many My friends, the time is yours. After 10 videos spanning the globe, our final us right back home to California. If you've followed our channel, you'll here in California, particularly in the Los But there is always more to discover, more in California will be taking us to new sites And a very special shoutout to our California longer than anyone else to see their videos Let's begin up north, in the Sonoma County This is the Jack London State Historic Park London. He was one of the great American novelists A pioneer of commercial fiction and magazines, become an international celebrity and to make He spent some of his early years in the Klondike His experiences there would serve as the inspiration Wild, and White Fang. Both of these have been adapted on screen Other of London's famous works include the novel, The Sea-Wolf. At the time of his death in 1916 at age 40, dysentery and uremia, for which he was taking Jack was cremated, his ashes interred beneath This is Santa Rosa Odd Fellows Cemetery, which as well as the unbelievable: Robert Ripley. Most of us know Robert Ripley as the originator and the museums, one of which can be found But did you know Ripley's Believe It or Yes, believe it or not, Robert Ripley began with the bizarre and unusual. The syndicated series became immensely popular, books, radio, television, short films, and "Believe it or not." ...all of which satisfying our love of oddities, Ripley died from a heart attack at age 59. Moving on to San Rafael, and Mount Tamalpais Here we find the grave of June Pointer. She was a founding member of the vocal group, They achieved mainstream success in the 70s and "I'm So Excited." The group would earn three Grammys in this countless film and TV productions. Cocaine addiction led to June's departure She died from cancer two years later, at the Our next stop is the Luther Burbank Gardens Fertilizing the ground here is its namesake, And I don't say that to be flippant. Burbank was a botanist who, upon his death, his favorite tree, saying, quote, "I would is going into the strength of a tree." Burbank was a pioneer in agricultural science, of plants, including numerous varieties of and the russet Burbank potato. He also developed varieties of spineless cacti, during periods of drought. Burbank became something of an international After his death in 1926 at age 77, he was favorite Cedar of Lebanon tree. This is Calvary Catholic Cemetery in Santa He was a professional football player for Drafted as a tackle out of the University as one of the best passing and rushing blockers A five-time Pro Bowler and an NFL Hall of greatest players of his generation. St. Clair died after complications of a broken We've arrived now in the capital of California, Here is the tomb of a genuine forty-niner, He was a businessman, one of the four principal Railroad, which built a rail over the Sierras the Golden Spike was driven to complete the Known for his thriftiness, Hopkins would become be able to squeeze 106 cents out of every After his death at age 64, he was entombed red granite. Our travels take us now to East Lawn Memorial Let's head into the mausoleum. Here we find the niche of Neville Brand. He was an actor, known particularly for playing He had memorable roles in films like Stalag Alcatraz. And on television he played Al Capone on "The Brand was also a highly decorated WWII combat He died from emphysema at age 71. Cherokee Memorial Park is in Lodi, south of Here we find two brothers known for their Mitchell. They're considered pioneers in the adult strip clubs around the San Francisco area most notably, discovering adult film star 1972 film "Behind the Green Door." It would be the first hardcore feature to following. In 1991 Jim fatally shot his brother Artie Jim would be convicted of voluntary manslaughter, Jim died from a heart attack in 2007 at age Their story was dramatized in the film Rated and Emilio Estevez. We've arrived in Stockton, and Stockton Several notable figures to find here. First among them, cult filmmaker Russ Meyer. He was known for his sexploitation films, His films were distinct for their campy humor, Among these are the 1965 cult favorite, Faster, Kill! Kill!, and what he considered his definitive in 1970. Russ Meyer died from complications of pneumonia Moving on to block six we find Olympe Branda. The French-born actress can be seen in 13 She began performing in Paris in her youth, before making her way to Hollywood to appear Among her best-known roles are as Maria in Ronald Reagan in 1941's International Squadron. Olympe retired after making that film, and She lived to be 92. This tomb belongs to an inventor named Benjamin He's remembered for patenting and manufacturing which allowed for heavy agricultural or engineering the ground, by spreading the weight of the Holt's tractors were used to replace horses He died in 1920 at age 71. No trip to Northern California would be complete This is Saint Stanislaus Cemetery in Modesto, Julio and Ernest Gallo. In 1933 the two partnered up to open a winery Following their natural inclinations, Julio Ernest handled the business end. Their first year they sold over 170,000 gallons the biggest names in California winemaking. In 1999 they'd be named the "Winery of of America competition. In 1993 Julio died then the vehicle he was He was 83. Ernest, who rests in the nearby mausoleum, Moving on to Hughson California, and Lakewood Here we find a folk figure known as Migrant You may not know her name, but I'd wager which became a symbol of the Great Depression. Florence was the subject of Dorothea Lange's in 1936. By the great depression, Thompson was pregnant of tuberculosis, leaving her to fend for herself any other means she could find. She'd have 4 more children in the years lived to be 80. Her epitaph reads, "Migrant Mother: A legend This is Turlock Memorial Park. And inside the mausoleum we find the niche He began his career as a child actor during in Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm and Daddy Long headlining films like 1920's Dinty. By the 40s and 50s he shifted his focus behind on shows like Adventures of Wild Bill Hickock, Humanoids. Wesley Barry lived to be 86. Next up is Lakewood Memorial Park, and the He was an actor of film, stage, and television, as Major Stovall in 1949's Twelve O'Clock Other memorable film roles include as Major television he was nominated for an Emmy for Jagger died in his sleep at age 87. This beautiful replica of William Story's Chimes in Hayward. Here we find the crypt of Spade Cooley. He was a fiddler, a popular musician during 50s. His song "Shame on You" would be top the His popularity led to roles in Western films, Then in 1948 he began hosting his own variety But in the early 1960s, Cooley would gain In 1961, in the wake of accusations of infidelity Ella Mae, in front of their 14-year-old daughter. The ensuing trial became a media circus, and In 1970 Cooley was granted parole, and three furlough to perform at a benefit concert. After the concert, which ended in a standing He was 58. Lone Tree Cemetery is also in Hayward. Here is someone familiar to you fans of The He had six film roles in the 20s and 30s, Charlie played the Mayor of Munchkinland in "As mayor of the Munchkin city, in the county Charlie Becker lived to be 81. Also here at Lone Tree is Bob Sweikert. He was a racecar driver, remembered for being Championship, and the Midwest Sprint Car Championship, But his career came to a violent end the following While completing the third lap of the race the edge of the track and down an embankment. He was taken to the hospital but pronounced This lovely view comes to us courtesy of Holy Here is the grave of Fran Ryan. The character actress had a number of recurring on the Doris Day Show, Rosie on Days of Our Fran also appeared in films like Private School, She passed away from natural causes at age Our next stop is Oakmont Memorial Park in Here lies Brent Mydland. He was a musician, best known as keyboard Dead from 1979 to 1990... the longest tenured He'd become an integral part of the groups of songs, like "Hell in a Bucket." Brent died from a drug overdose in 1990 at to die. This is Sunset View Cemetery in El Cerrito. Here we find a tragic pair in the world of Laurie and William Hickox were brother and They won the 1960 National Junior Pairs championship, figure skating championship. In 1961 the pair were part of the US Figure In February 1961 the entire team, including New York to Brussels for the World Figure On approach to the Brussels airport, the plane the entire US Figure Skating Team. Laurie was just 15, William 18. Also here we find musician Paul Baloff. He was a thrash metal vocalist, lead singer He joined the group in 1982, and would become that era. He can be heard on their 1985 album, Bonded He would sing in a number of other bands, But in 2002 Paul had a stroke that left him He died while on life support at just 41. Let's cross over now into the San Mateo Here we reach Colma, the city of the dead, We first visited here in our tour of San Francisco, be sure to check out that video. One of the sites we visited here in Colma We're going to re-visit someone here we've guest taking us there. The man you see here is local tour guide Joseph is him portraying the man we'll be visiting and Protector of Mexico. In September of 1859, Joshua Abraham Norton declare himself "Emperor of the United States, He would issue decrees, largely ignored of parties. The eccentric Emperor Norton would stroll in an elaborate blue uniform, attending to While he had no real political power, he became era, and his call to build a bridge between realized in the form of the Bay Bridge in His whimsical 21-year reign over America came away. Another of the 17 or so cemeteries here in legends like Joe DiMaggio are laid to rest. We're back today to find George Moscone. He was an attorney and politician, remembered from 1976 to 1978. He was known as &quot;the people's mayor&quot;, who reflect the diversity of San Francisco. But his tenure ended in violence, when he supervisor in 1978. He was 49. George's assassin, Dan White, is in a cemetery Dan also killed Harvey Milk at the same time, public office in California. White only spent 5 years in prison for the manslaughter, which led to outrage in the Dan White took his own life two years after These events were dramatized in the 2008 film, One of the great military leaders resting He was a Navy Fleet Admiral, whose naval career He was the commander of the Pacific Fleet The Battle of Midway was one of his greatest And Admiral Nimitz was among those who accepted The USS Nimitz, a supercarrier, is named in He lived to be 80. Chester Nimitz has been portrayed in film and Woody Harrelson. Let's head to Stanford University in Palo just pass by the mausoleum of the university's He was the 8th Governor of California, from While in office he started colleges, cut the the conservation of forests. Stanford was also another of the founding which he would later be named president. Stanford had a lasting impact on California, This is the Garden of Memories in Salinas. In these grounds rests a giant of American He authored 33 books, including novels, non-fiction, Among his best-known works are East of Eden, which earned him the Pulitzer Prize, and is canon. The Grapes of Wrath would be made into an In 1962 John Steinbeck would be awarded the and imaginative writings, combining as they John Steinbeck died from heart failure at Next up is Monterey City Cemetery. Here lies David Jacks. The Scottish-born businessman immigrated to Here he owned a dairy where he made a white the 18th Century. The cheese would become known as Jack's So if you've ever wondered where the name and its popularizer, David Jacks. He lived to be 86. Also here in Monterey we find an actress named She's remembered as a leading lady of silent of Laurel and Hardy, Max Davidson, and Charlie These include Why Girls Love Sailors, Do Detectives She retired from film in the 1930s, and lived This is the grave of Don Hanmer. He was an actor with close to 100 credits Among his film roles are as the butterfly And Hanmer would make guest appearances on days of television, like Suspense, Tales of He lived to be 83. Our last Monterey City Cemetery stop brings The rugged actor was known for playing swarthy, His best-known role is that of Big Ed Somers, White Heat. Other notable films include Tomorrow is Another And like so many of this era, he'd make Twilight Zone, The Untouchables, and Climax. But at the age of 48, Cochran would die under He boarded his yacht with three female acquaintances scout locations. 10 days later the boat drifted ashore in Guatemala, The three women were left distraught, not waited for it to drift ashore. Rumors of foul play swirled, but no evidence was given as a lung infection. Also here in Monterey is California Central This is the niche of actor Ken Swofford. His best-known television role is that of of Fame, in the 1980s. He also made quite a few appearances on Murder, And Ken's film roles include Annie, and He lived to be 85. Let's make a big jump down to the San Diego This will be our second time here, so for San Diego videos. Let's begin in Escondido, and Oak Hill Memorial Here is the grave of Billy Bevan. He was a vaudevillian who would become a key Sennett studio. Over his career he'd appear in over 250 And while principally known for his work in career in the talkies, playing supporting Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. Bevan died at the age of 70. Also here we find the grave of a wrestler Golden Greek." He'd become one of the most popular stars 30s and 40s. In 1938 he won the World Heavyweight Wrestling Posthumous honors include induction into the Halls of Fame. Londos died from a heart attack at 81. Our next Oak Hill stop is a pioneering businesswoman In an age when business was dominated by men, and business savvy into the company that bears She specialized in stuffing, becoming a staple The company would expand into other food products, Sophie Cubbison lived to be 92. Over now to section 11, we find the grave He was one of the great saxophone artists His 1960 album Theme from a Summer Place topped He would rake in more pop hits and gold records of Rock and Roll, and found considerable success Billy Vaughn died from mesothelioma at age Here's another one for you baseball fans: He played in the major leagues from 1938 to Pirates. He was considered among the top defensive in the All-Star game of 1940. In 1996 he'd be inducted into the Dodgers Pete died from an aneurysm at age 89. Dearborn Memorial Park is in Poway. Here we find another baseball player, Deron He played for numerous teams between 1960 Oakland Athletics in 1973. He was known as one of the great hitters in After retiring from playing, he would be a He was just 53 when he died from cancer. Sticking with the theme, we find the grave He played 20 seasons with the San Diego Padres. During that time he won 8 batting titles, This would make him one of the greatest hitters He made two World Series appearances, and in 2007. Mr. Padre was just 54 when he died from cancer. And we haven't forgotten about you football Here lies Jerry Smith. He played for the 49ers and Packers in the Smith found more success however as a football coach for numerous teams, including the San He lived to be 80. This charming gateway leads us into Laurel Oh look at that... better safe than sorry In these grounds we find Douglas Fowley. The prolific actor had over 300 credits to He's fondly remembered for his role as Roscoe And on television he played Doc Holliday on He'd also make appearances on shows like The Adventures of Rin Tin Tin. Fowley lived to be 86. Our next stop is San Jacinto Valley Cemetery. In these grounds rests a woman who made her Black, also known as Ditra Flame, resting As the story goes, Miss Flame knew Rudolph He would visit her bedside and bring her a Valentino told her she was not going to die, visit him after he died so he would not be That date would come tragically soon when For approximately 30 years, Flame would make all in black, and leave a single rose. Her own celebrity grew as the mysterious annual Lady in Black." There have been many copycat Ladies in Black original. She died at age 78, surrounded by pictures Inching closer to home, we've made it to This is Riverside National Cemetery, which most active national cemetery in the US -- eternal entertained us.... oh, and a few butterflies as well. First up here is Stanley Clements. As an actor he's remembered for portraying in the related Bowery Boys films. The East Side Kids and Bowery Boys were a following the antics of a group of young New Outside these series he had notable roles Stanley was just 55 when he died from emphysema. Next up we head to section 46. Here lies Woody Strode. He began his career as a professional football Acting roles would follow, often cast as warriors Among his best-known roles are as Draba in Rutledge, and Jake in The Professionals. He'd become one of Hollywood's early black Woody Strode would even be the namesake of Strode died from lung cancer at age 80. Over to the columbarium, we find a name familiar Here is the niche of Noble Willingham. As an actor he's best remembered for playing episodes of Walker, Texas Ranger, in the 1990s. He played John Binford on Home Improvement, and Ace Ventura: Pet Detective. After his death at age 72, Noble was cremated, There is also a monument to Noble Willingham This is section 55A, a cremation section, He starred alongside John Wayne in a number Jima. Later in his career he'd become a cult favorite films of the 50s and 60s, like The Mole People, of Dr. Jekyll. John died from emphysema at age 81. Our next stop is section 61, and the grave He's best remembered for his role as Capt. Harold Dobey on the popular 70s series, Starsky His big screen debut was in 1950, in The Jackie In 1964 he bucked stereotypes and social norms Potato, Two Potato, in which he was in an Remember that in the early 1960s, interracial states. Bernie died from cardiac arrest at age 80. You fans of rock and roll will appreciate Here lies Earl Palmer, the heartbeat of early Earl was a drummer, who innovated the drumming in the 50s. As a session drummer he played on thousands Richard's and Fats Domino's hits. These would include "Tutti Frutti," "La He also played drums on The Righteous Brothers' Palmer was inducted into the Rock and Roll He lived to be 83. Back to the columbarium, we find another musician, His epitaph "Let's Get it On," gives Ed was a songwriter, who wrote and performed in 1958. But as his epitaph notes, he's perhaps best-remembered Get it On," in 1973. Ed Townsend lived to be 74. Rounding the corner, along the bottom row, named Vivian Austin. Her big break came when she was cast as the serial, The Adventures of Red Ryder. She played Beth Andrews in the series. Prior to entering the movies she had been But her career was cut short in the 40s when left her mostly blind. Vivian lived to be 84. If you saw our Twilight Zone Special, you'll here. He was a noted science fiction writer. He's perhaps best-known for co-writing the of the 1976 film of the same name. And George took us on a journey through the "Nothing in the Dark," and "A Game of You Star Trek fans will remember that he wrote "The Man Trap." And it was George Clayton Johnson's story A legend doesn't die because the man does... his legend lives on. This columbarium is in section CJ. Here is the niche of Paul Comi. Speaking of Star Trek and the Twilight Zone, of the Twilight Zone, including "People episode, "Balance of Terror." He'd make appearances on many of the other West and The Virginian, extending all the on Baywatch. And his big screen roles would include The He died from complications of Alzheimer's Back out to the grounds, our last Riverside He gained fame as a child actor, playing Alfalfa's later playing Jimmy Olsen in the Superman As an adult he shifted his focus behind camera including for Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In. Bond died from complications of heart disease Crestlawn is also here in Riverside. First up here is Darwood Kaye. The bespectacled young actor was another regular and 40s, as bookish rich kid Waldo. After Our Gang he could be seen in films like He left acting though as an adult and became Darwood died at age 72 after being struck In Sunset Lot we find a young actor named He was a child actor, known for appearing He had a prominent role alongside Chuck Norris He would be nominated for the Young Artist Other films include Shadow of China, and he Tragically, Roland took his own life at age In the Garden of Resurrection, we find the He was a major league baseball player from principally as an outfielder. But just as his star was beginning to rise, the age of 25. Darr had been drinking and was not wearing Let's move on now to Olivewood Cemetery In the Urn Garden we find the grave of Darwyn He began his career in the Broadway show, He would then appear in films in the 80s and At 6'9" he would play imposing figures, on Barton Fink. Swalve died after suffering a heart attack Next up here we visit Del Lord. He was a prolific director of short comedies These would include Keystone comedies in the of the main directors of the Three Stooges Lord is credited with having helped develop Before directing he would actually hone his one of the original Keystone Kops... the driver Del Lord lived to be 75. Over now to section W3, we pay a visit to He was a professional baseball player who Padres. He was a pitcher, and holds the record for With the Padres he would play in the 1984 After retiring, Show struggled with drug abuse. In 1994 he was found dead in his room at a He was 37. Our next Riverside stop is Evergreen Memorial Heading toward the southern end of the cemetery He was a soul singer, who had a number of His first hit was "The Snake" in 1968. He would then have a number 1 hit in 1973 referenced right here on his stone. Al Wilson lived to be 68. Turning the compass north to San Bernardino, of Randy Rhoads. He was a heavy metal guitarist, known as a rose to fame in the 70s and 80s. Rhodes would also be the original guitarist hits like "Mr. Crowley" and "Crazy Train." Rhodes is credited with having helped craft heavy metal in this era. But Rhoads would be another tragic musical In 1982 their tour bus stopped at an air field While some band members slept in the bus, private plane to take pictures. The pilot then began to buzz the tour bus, band members. On a third pass, the plane dipped too low, careening and crashing into a nearby building. Randy Rhoads, the pilot, and a makeup artist, He was just 25, and would posthumously be This is Forest Lawn Covina Hills. Here is the grave of Gilberto Rosiles, known As his marker indicates, he was the King of He was part of the group Brownside, created rap equivalent of NWA. Toker showed his love for the city of LA in Toker was just 51 when he was killed while Bellevue Memorial Park is in Ontario. Here is the grave of Blackie Fontana. He was an up-and-coming rapper in the Los and 2017. He found serious traction with "Hood Life," But later that same year he would become another Very little information has been uncovered 21, Blackie was shot and killed at a residential He was 32. We're in Monrovia now, and Live Oak Memorial This is where a legendary jockey named Milo His 29-year career was marked by highlights in 1958 and 1968, among many other victories. Valenzuela retired with an astounding 2,545 In 2008 he was inducted into the National On the back of his marker is a monument to Milo Valenzuela lived to be 74. This Forest Lawn is located down in Long Beach. Let's spend a little time in the mausoleum. You'll find a Foucault pendulum here in, In these halls we find the crypt of Earl Daugherty. He was a pioneer of early aviation, among in California. In 1919 he opened his own air field here in put on air shows, and even work in some early He became the king of aviation in Long Beach, now the Long Beach Airport, sometimes called But marking yet another death in an aviation plane he was piloting collapsed, causing him He was 41. Joshua Memorial Park is up in the Lancaster A handful of famous folks to find here. First up, Raymond Hatton. He was prolific in his screen appearances, of the silent era, well into the 1960s. He appeared in the first feature produced the 20s he was paired with Wallace Beery in Through the 40s he was a staple in B Westerns, many of the great TV show's we love, like Wild Bill Hickock. One of his final appearances was as the Elderly Hatton lived to be 84. We're close to Edwards Air Force Base, and John B. McKay. He was a pilot, aeronautical engineer, and He worked for NASA in the 50s where he'd testing many of the early experimental aircraft aircraft like the X-15. During one of these flights his aircraft experienced The plane rolled upon landing. McKay survived, but suffered injuries which His early death years later at the age of pain he had suffered from the crash. Nearby we find fellow flier, Milton Thompson. He too was an aviator and engineer. And like McKay he was among the pilots who After his time as a test pilot, Thompson would overseeing research projects and engineering. He lived to be 67. Praying hands show us the way to the grave He was a bluegrass and country musician. In the 1960s he was part of the bluegrass Later he would join The Byrds as their guitarist. He would become a pioneer of the country rock Clarence White died on July 15, 1973 when while loading equipment into their car after He was 29. Fellow bandmate Gram Parsons was especially song, "In My Hour of Darkness," partially his own death. Our last stop here, near the veteran's memorial, The actor's hulking build and unconventional of villains and toughs. He's remembered for appearing alongside as Cholla in Every Which Way but Loose and Outlaw Josey Wales. And his television appearances include in John died in his sleep at age 71. We're back again at Inglewood Park Cemetery, Ella Fitzgerald, and Betty Grable are laid Here too is a name synonymous with reality Robert Kardashian. Robert was an attorney who came to national Simpson in his 1995 murder trial. He was part of the team of defense attorney's that got OJ acquitted for the murders of his OJ and Robert Kardashian had a subsequent afterword that he doubted OJ's innocence. Robert was married to Kris Kardashian, now Kim, Khloe, and Rob. They would become infamous in the world of Kardashians. But years before his name would become synonymous Kardashian died from cancer, at the age of He was portrayed by David Schwimmer in the If you've followed our channel, you'll the mausoleum at Holy Cross in Culver City. We've found numerous stars in these halls, always more to discover. Meet Al Martino. As a singer he ranks among the great Italian He'd become known for hits like "Here Martino would also dabble in acting, most Godfather. He would also contribute to the film's soundtrack. Curiously, in a case of real-life imitating help from his own godfather, mob boss Russell production to hire him. Al Martino died from a heart attack at age And finally, what more fitting place is there filmed by you than Hollywood Forever Cemetery, Hollywood Graveyard. Countless are the stars that rest in these Let's head into a very familiar building, Occupying one of these glass-front niches The guitarist and producer worked with some Alice Cooper, Lou Reed, and WASP. He would play on 3 Kiss albums between 1977 The Crimson Idol, and Still Not Black Enough. He would also produce for bands like Motorhead, Square Pants: "Sweet Victory." Bob died from heart disease at the age of "at peace... playing his guitar as loud And that, my friends, concludes our tour, And what a series it was. It was such a treat for me to ride along with graveyards of the world. With your help we reached far off places I locales like Japan, Iceland, Brazil, to across As we wrap up this adventure, I wanted to of you who participated in this viewers special. I apologize if your video wasn't featured. I included as many as I possibly could, which many in this series... I just didn't have the heart to cut out But as this adventure ends, another continues, here in Hollywood. I'll be back behind the camera once again And we've got some exciting special editions Poe special, which will be released this October in time for Halloween. It will be our most ambitious video to date, Zone Special: part famous grave tour, part We're very excited to share it with you. So stay tuned, lots to come from Hollywood Thanks for watching, we'll see you on the