Pork and egg with udon noodles in a large bowl kettle-frying Sanuki Udon chain restaurant Onigiri and Inari sushi made in the restaurant! Homemade curry! Noodles are homemade with no additives! Dashi (Japanese soup stock) is self-serve. One coin for a full meal! Momoyama-tei Noodle factory 4:40 About 1000 meals in an hour (we are making) Delivery to each store (Staff) How many kilos do you make in a day? All in all, about 250 (kilos). Noodle delivery completed Okayama-shi, Okayama Momoyama-tei Hirai 8:45 Momoyama-tei Manager (With this amount of meat) I wonder if it will last until the peak period. It depends on how the customer comes, I usually make about (two more) in the evening. 11:00 opening (Waiter) I got kake udon (regular). (Male guest) Oyakodon set with colander (Male guest) Kama-tamago no nare Zaru Udon oyakodon (I ordered Oyakodon set and Kamatama Udon Delicious, delicious! (Put soup stock in the kamatama udon), We're going to make kamakake udon. Delicious! Much delicious! (Female customer) Kamaage no nare I got &quot;Kake Udon&quot; (noodles). I had hot egg and meat bukkake. Hot egg and meat Udon noodles with grated soy sauce I come here about every day. (I always order) this is usually Kake Udon and Tempura I saw other customers eating. I had one and it was delicious. The stores are beautiful here, so I'm (coming) here already. Even though it's far away, I still decide to stay here. Tastes good too. Delicious! A large one, with a cold one, with a hot sauce. Oyster fries, freshly fried. How about this Freshly fried green beans are also served. It's cold with grated radish, so it's large. Bukkake with grated radish (large, cold) Meat and rice (small) (Male guest) Hot egg and meat (Male guest) on par with (Clerk) Do you want it hot or cold? (Male guest) Because it's warm. udon noodles with deep-fried tofu (Waitress) Kitsune udon, is that right? I got a takeaway, a kitsune (ordinary). Pork and egg meat udon, large, please. Gesoten Delicious! Hot egg and meat hotchpotch in a small bowl (Clerk) Warm or cold? (Female guest) Because it's warm. Cold, small udon noodles with more broth. (Female customer) Do you have kitsune udon? (Waiter) We have kitsune udon. (Clerk) Which size would you like? (Male customer) Can I have a small hot egg and meat bukkake udon? (Male guest) Because it's warm. Fried bean curd is served How about this (Male guest) Meat udon large You said you wanted to eat a small piece of grated soy sauce. At large Big, you can eat it! (Female guest) One small piece of grated soy sauce and (Clerk) Would you like it hot or cold? (Female guest) Because it's cold. (Male guest) with a large bowl of bukkake (Male guest) I'll take a cold one. (Male guest) Mr. Potato (Male guest) Are you there? (Child) Yes. (Male guest) Meat udon noodle (Male guest) One parallel (Female customer) Two ordinary bowls of meat boukkake and (Clerk) Do you want it hot or cold? (Female guest) Both hot and cold. (Male guest) Meat with bukkake (Clerk) The size is small. (Male guest) in small (Clerk) Warm or cold? (Male guest) Because it's warm. (Female customer) Meat udon noodle (Female customer) In the middle size (Mother) How about udon? (Son) Delicious! (Mother) Sometimes (I come). (Female guest) Meat bukkake, small Pork and egg with udon noodles A cold one with meat boukkake, large One of the inside of a hot egg and meat boukkake kettle-frying small colander (Boy) Zaru udon (Clerk) Small, medium, or large? (Boy) in small (Female customer) I'll have a small bowl of hot egg hotchpotch. (Clerk) Do you want it hot or cold? (Female guest) Because it's cold. (Male customer) Curry udon noodles, please. (Female customer) Meat udon noodle (Male guest) A set of curry and rice. (Male guest) Wakame Udon (Male guest) Inside of a meat bouquet (Clerk) Warm or cold? (Male guest) Because it's cold. (waiter) On-tama bukkake (regular), topped with cod roe (Female customer) I'm warm with a hot egg bukkake. (Female customer) Topped with yam (Female customer) The grated (Female guest) with a cold one. (Female customer) Oyakodon by itself oyakodon (Staff) Curry udon large (Staff) One rice, please. Curry Udon Noodle Large Shrimp Rice Medium (Stuff) Hot egg and meat boukkake on the same level. (Clerk) Would you like it hot or cold? (Staff) He is a warm person. Udon noodles with hot egg and meat Okayama City, Okayama Prefecture rice ball The most popular toriten! It's so good. You've been here since the opening. Tremendous popularity... Back Menu! Now let's look at it together! Minami Ward, Okayama City, Okayama Prefecture Self-serve Udon noodle store Manager Taguchi went to work 6:56 Closely followed from the preparation for opening Tidy kitchen 43 this year I worked 24/7 for about 3 years. I thought I was going to die. My father used to run an udon shop. I found myself able to make udon noodles. When I was 18, I was trying to get a job. He asked me to go into the store anyway, so I did. Like this all the way to this age. When a 20 year old does it. And there's no parking... (Staff) How did you get the name Kochiyo? I went to the bonito shop for a little study on this one. The manager of the udon shop near there It's like meeting the president here. 7:07 Noodle making begins (Staff) How many pounds is this? About 9 kilos or so. (Staff) What powder do you use? our house is this one now. Kintoun, that's what it's all about. Lately I've been in love with this one. (Staff) How long do the noodles age? Maturation is stepped on the night before, so one night. Characterized by its sticky and glutinous nature (Staff) During which period did you have the most When we opened the store If you have them all come at once. I don't want to get a weird impression there. I know it's painful at first. He said he'll be out of business in six months. I've been told a lot. footsteps Dashi stock preparation Kelp is rehydrated in water from the day before Bonito, kelp, Urume, mackerel Abalone, Japanese anchovy, Soda bonito, etc. Preparation of dew (noun) root (i.e., the root of a plant) Wasabi (Japanese horseradish) sesame Beef Ribs Zaru Dashi Separate from the regular kake dashi. Meat udon has a choice of beef seasoning intensity Preparation of Ten-Tsuyu grated radish ginger (Zingiber officinale) Eggs put in ice water Making croquettes croquette Making tempura flour (Staff) Why do you do this? To smooth the dough sweet potato chikuwa (dogtooth violet) 5,000,000 --&gt; 01:14:20,000 chikuwa (dogtooth violet) chrysanthemum five burdens lotus root lotus root crab sticks ESSENTIAL ESSENTIALS sweet potato Chicken thigh Make Toriten Quail eggs chicken tempura (specialty of Oita Prefecture) Gesoten Gesoten onion shrimp and vegetable fritters Kelp Kelp is self-serve and can be put on as much as you want. Domestic rice used in the production of It started raining heavily outside... Making Inari Sushi and Rice Balls Making sushi rice Vinegar Mix while cooling with a fan Inarizushi Making rice balls Japanese apricot (Prunus mume) tree Tuna Kelp cod roe young Japanese amberjack (Seriola quinqueradiata) Yukari Charcoal grilled chicken Onigiri completed 11:00 opening in the middle of trading Business hours 11:00 - 20:00 With parking lot Total 46 seats Self-service format Variety of tempura Shrimp tempura 220yen Eggplant 140yen Seasoned half-boiled egg 110 yen Gesoten 140 yen Inari sushi 80 yen Kake udon: 370 yen; Coloured udon: 370 yen Nabeyaki Udon: 850 yen Meat Udon: 640 yen Customers as soon as the store opens Order Nabeyaki Udon Making Nabeyaki Udon Shiitake mushrooms, chicken Eggs, fries, green onions Japanese zelkova (species of elm bark, Zelkova serrata L.) get an accent young Japanese apricot rice cake prawn heaven Nabeyaki udon 830yen Thank you for waiting. Plenty of ingredients and very satisfying! Order Nabeyaki Udon Regulars Delicious Udon and soba Hobby. Delicious. I'm sure they know that when they come in, it's going to be a pot roast. You don't have to say it, it comes out. Order 2 large kamaage udon Kama-age Udon Noodle Large 490yen Kama-age Udon and Tempura Delicious! This is a large kama-age (Staff) How are the noodles? It's delicious. Crisp and smooth. Ordering a large zaru udon Zaru Udon large 450yen Zaru Udon large 450 yen Toriten 180 yen (Staff) Do you come here often? If you go through this area I appreciate the tempura sauce. Sprinkle it on a little and soak it in. Delicious. You can get seaweed with your onigiri order. I'm too happy with each and every service... Kake Udon Large 450yen They cut the tempura into bite-size pieces. Tenkasu is self-service Eat guts with Udon and Tempura! Thank you very much. Kitsune Udon Yes! Meat with cold rice meat grated radish Roots (of a plant) sesame Udon noodles with meat broth (cold) 620 yen seasoned fried chicken Kitsune Udon 340yen I'll take it. A particular taste that makes you want to go back again and again... Finished up the meal! Ten-tsuyu (soy sauce), Onigiri (rice ball) with or without nori (seaweed) Bukkake Udon Large Thank you. Vigorously eating udon noodle I can work hard in the afternoon. Making udon for others meat Eggs Give me green onion Udon noodles with other people 680yen Order a hiyake Pouring cold soup stock Negi (Japanese word for leek) Here you go, sir. Cold one, please. Welcome! Order Nabeyaki Udon Shiitake mushrooms, chicken Eggs Enoki mushrooms, green onions Fried rice cake and shrimp Nabeyaki udon 830yen The broth is made from 8 different kinds of ingredients. I want to drink up the broth... Ebi-ten (shrimp tempura) is a hearty dish! Prettier shiitake mushrooms Aged with plenty of broth It is the best to go down smoothly! Nabeyaki Udon is very popular even in summer... Order of Zaru Udon Large Here you go. Large order of udon noodles Here's a big one for you, sir. It's the same level as the first one.... Order Large Wakame Udon Noodle 12:09 Toro-tama no tame chicken tempura (specialty of Oita Prefecture) Toro-tama udon ESSENTIALS Regulars (Staff) Do you come to the store quite often? Relatively coming. (Staff) What do you like about the store? Taste There are a lot of noodles. Delicious. Green onion, sesame, grated radish Nori (seaweed) Sorry for the wait. Udon noodles with meat broth Tenpitsuyu Tenkasu I'm glad that I can put kelp on it as much as I want... Kelp with excellent chewiness! Regulars A bite of gesoten I've been coming here for 9 years. I came here to see if you had opened an udon restaurant. (Staff) Do you have a favorite menu item? You always eat cold udon. I eat bukkake all summer and winter. Thank you for the food Heavy rain is falling, but the customers keep coming... 12:32 Here you go, sir. Udon noodles with chili sauce. Kake Udon Kake Udon, please. udon with udon noodles by the fox I have ginger and wasabi. Rock salt, wasabi, ginger (Staff) Do you come to the store often? I think it's about the second or third time. I'm from Nagoya. (Staff) Are the noodles different over there? No, it isn't. I think it is. The noodles are very firm and Nagoya is not so much I think it's the culture of noodles (Staff) Why did you repeat? Because good udon with firmness is delicious. Here it comes. Kelp Sprinkle shichimi togarashi Shichimi (seven spice) and soy sauce on the table One large kake-udon noodle Children's call. one more large multiplier I'll be up in a little while. Families come to the store The aroma of soup stock wafts through the air... This is the service of children's udon Udon noodles for children under 3 years old Children's tableware available Udon Noodles Tempura Onigiri kamatama udon The next one is also a kamatama. Making kamatama udon Eggs Toss eggs with noodles Negi (Japanese word for leek) Two men in suits come to the store First time. I'm here on a business trip. (Staff) How do you like the taste? Delicious. It's firm and tasty! Making wakame udon noodles young Japanese amberjack (Seriola quinqueradiata) Wakame Udon Noodle Large 560yen Topped with self-serve tenkasu Regulars Dip the chicken tempura in the tempura sauce and take a bite. (Staff) Do you come here a lot? Yes, about once or twice a week. (Staff) Is there anything on the menu you order most often? Bukkake cold (Staff) What kind of tempura do you tend? I've always had this toriten Crispy batter. There's quite a bit of volume. Crispy and juicy chicken tempura Eating with Ten-tsuyu sauce 13:01 Kake Udon, please. Negi (Latin alphabet) Here you go. Toriten 180 yen Inari sushi 80yen Do you need tempura sauce? please. Tenpitsuyu Tenkasu Kelp Kake udon 350 yen All in all, 610 yen is too much to break even..! Juwatto fufu nari sushi is delicious! The aroma wafts from the clear broth... Dashi has a gentle taste Smooth but firm noodles are very satisfying! Sipping udon with onigiri in one hand Here you go. (Staff) Do you come to the store quite often? 2 or 3 times a week Delicious. There's a menu behind the scenes. It's not written there. Strangers Udon and so on... Or beef with egg. And udon noodles with gravy. On the back menu... Pork Eggs Negi (Japanese word for leek) Deep fry eggplant ESSENTIALS Tuna Kelp Udon noodles with other people 680yen Eggplant is big and very satisfying Onigiri is fluffy and tasty... Tuna kelp is plentiful. Fluffy Eggs and Tender meat covered with broth is too good... Delicious chewy udon noodles... 10 years this October (Staff) What kind of restaurant do you want to make in the future? Not in Kyushu, not in Shikoku It's like udon in Okayama. I want to make udon Homey. Dorodoro curry is very tasty. KAMAHACHI established in 2001 Sanuki Udon restaurant where morning set menus are popular A precious store open in the morning. I come 5 times a week after work. Hungry before slingshot Reassuringly experienced part-timers Close contact with a self-service udon store in Hiroshima! Horikawa-cho, Naka-ku, Hiroshima-shi, Hiroshima Manager Masanari, a former professional band member, comes to work. 6:50 a.m. A day at Sanuki Udon shop The morning is coming. We have guests. Like a businessman. I had a set meal in the morning. It comes out pretty well. Meat, meat sucking, etc. I come here quite a bit in the morning to eat. I don't know what I'm having for breakfast and what I'm having for dinner. Popular Morning Menu Ready for business immediately I'm going to heat up the food I made yesterday. Your husband recently lost one of his front teeth in an accident. The scale was struck. 10l, 20l (Staff) This was invented by Did you invent it yourself? The grandmothers here think what they want to think... Isn't this easy? 20L today. If this were summer or something... I have a lot of bukkake. Making more bukkake dashi or This is a soup stock It's the broth for kake-udon or meat udon. I get out a lot in the winter. If it's winter, 40L or so... We have a lot of sloppy curries. A homey one. something doesn't look good, doesn't it? Sloppy curry is delicious. Curry Udon with Soup It's delicious as curry and rice, too. This is what I've been doing for 21 years. At first, I thought it would be easy. Work. It's a pain in the ass. It's early in the morning or something. I guess if the top is 78 years old or something... You young kids are like my great-grandchildren. You're adorable. We've all been here for quite a long time. Guys. And when to quit. I hear you're quitting because you're graduating high school. I'm graduating from college, so I'm quitting. They've all been working for us for quite a long time. And the two grandmothers who come after me. I've been working here for 20 years. You are my mentors, the two of you. Dashi for bukkake Noodles come around 9:00 or 10:00. The style is to have it sent from Kagawa and do it. I'm just going to launch it. Delicious. I had a couple of stores. In the end, it was just us. I put this out last December, new. I went to a place called Alpark. I got it out, and I'm going to work hard again from now on. Custom-made soup stock pack I had it custom made. We don't dare to have iriko in our house. Delicious. I'm not sure I'd say it myself. He said this kamahachi broth is pretty good. We have a lot of people who come to eat with us. I'm going to Okayama City for a live concert. I think every time I thought it was soooo urban. There are so many people. And there are a lot of fashionable people. I heard that there are a lot of pretty girls there. I'm singing and I play guitar. 20 years and more, doing udon noodle Two-faced. two swords, two swords, two swords Music doesn't make me eat, so good luck with this one. They really come in all ages. Businessman by day, apparel Like the PARCO guy. We get a lot of families on Saturdays and Sundays at It's interesting, all kinds of people come here. Popular Fried Chicken Veteran Part Kono-san Veteran Part Nakamura-san Recommendation multiplier Bukkake is delicious. Pouring, bukkake It's all delicious, though. (Staff) Do you have any recommendations for tempura? Toriten. The highest number. fried horse mackerel 8:00 opening Self-service udon shop The spacious restaurant has 60 seats when you go to the back. First udon noodles are boiled chicken tempura (tempura) First customer Order bukkake udon noodles, fried tofu and kakiage. I've been using it for almost 20 years and it's wearing thin. This is my favorite! With small meat udon With mini udon for breakfast set meal Set meal is in. You can choose between hot spring eggs and raw eggs. With hot spring eggs (Staff) I know it's early in the morning, but are you done drinking or something today? Valedictorian. Something like that. maitake mushroom heaven Smell good, don't you think? Both ume plum and cod roe were put in the four corners, weren't they? Is there a meaning to that too? That's it. When you have guests from both Easy to see products Oh, like it's a plum tree. Sometimes I can't see it because it's inside. The product is easy to understand. You can eat it from anywhere... just the same. On-tama bukkake Size Size is medium warm or cold On the warm side With ume bukkake Because it's cold or warm. Since it is cold I went to the edge like that. I went to the end of the line Two guys say they came to the store after the band. Do you come here often? Oh, but sometimes.... But this place has been open at this time for a long time. I have a good point. There are no places open early in Hiroshima. Thanks for the help. Meat used for beef plate and meat udon stocking up every day It's pretty much winter time again. Warm one in yam bukkake Yams, side by side Are you here a lot? morning at a later time (I'm grateful (to be free in the morning) Is it udon in the morning after all? Yes. I definitely order yam bukkake. Easy to eat? Easy to eat and Delicious hot or cold! For oyster fries. Popular items are this, toriten and I think it's fried or something. Rice ball with okaka seaweed wrapped in Hiroshima greens This used to be that they didn't put in the okaka. It was white rice. After 9:00 a.m. Manager's breakfast Come in part-time. I just realized it's been 15 years. I used to do music professionally. I came back from Tokyo and came back out. I got a byte here. Think it's good... I knew the store originally. So if you're going to get a part-time job... I want to work part-time in a place I like. I've been in Kamahachi for 15 years. And the ladies just now... We've been working together for 15 years. then When did you become a manager? I love the udon here. I'm going to keep doing it the way you taught me to do it. I'm thinking maybe it's work. Not a udon artisan. I thought you were a pro at selling udon noodles. If you're under the misapprehension that you're with a craftsman... I think they think you ain't no udon artisan. I'm going to sell my favorite udon noodles. Policy. I'm trying my best. I'm sorry, but I don't have any teeth right now. I had an accident the other day. Please give me a meat sucker for the breakfast set meal. I'm out of work, ma'am. They come here sometimes. (Staff) Do you come here sometimes? I'm here all the time... I hope it's just an occasional thing. I think he comes here about 5 times a week. I haven't done anything else, so it's not easy to find a store. I recommend the morning set meal. I highly recommend Toriten! Toriten is already an iron plate Thank you. Thanks for the food Thanks again for the delicious udon noodles. Thank you very much. Beef plate breakfast set meal, please. Beef plate set meal is in! And curry soup or mini udon. I ordered mini udon! The jars are over there. Free refills of rice... Beef plate breakfast set meal (mini udon, raw egg) Katsu-don set (pork cutlet served on top of a bowl of rice with meat sucking) Beef bowl small Curry (udon) small, medium, or large? at the same time Bukkake udon, hot chicken tempura (tempura) Hiroshima rape (Opened in) 2001, right? It was still all the rage back then. There used to be a lot of big stores and such. It's only here now, in the city. Small piece of udon noodles with others Torishio Udon in a row With Stamina Udon at the same time What's warm and what's cold? Since it is warm Udon customers with other people's udon noodles Be careful, it's hot. 12:09 Okayama City, Okayama Prefecture A car came into a dark parking lot. Udon Haruhi's manager Udon shop owner for 5 years I was looking for a change to a place with a bigger parking lot. The number of seats has tripled. Prepare 9 kg of noodles for breakfast and 32 kg for lunch Noodles can totally change every day depending on temperature and humidity. It's hard to fine tune. Preparing for 6:30 a.m. opening Kneading repeatedly makes the firmness stronger. My last job was at a sushi restaurant. (Staff) What made you switch to udon? I like udon best. preparation for raising You should not boil iriko and kombu. Cutting pumpkins for tempura For meat udon Beef Ribs red meat I'm very particular. Making Udon noodle soup stock flaked bonito get an accent dried bonito shavings (Staff) What time do you get up? I sleep about 5 hours. Open at 6:30 Morning hours 6:30-9:00 Ticket machine next to the entrance Morning Udon (Kake Udon) Today's morning udon is Clean interior 4 tables morning udon Morning udon noodles (kake) 400 yen Morning udon 400 yen onsen egg Today's morning udon Asari Butter Udon Noodle Special! Mentaiko 180 yen Morning udon topped with cod roe Delicious I come here all the time at lunch. It's hard to get in at lunchtime because it's so full. rice topped with egg Udon with egg on rice 200 yen Udon noodles with chewy elasticity that goes down your throat Udon-no-ya no Tamagokake-Gohan (Rice with egg) Morning udon ends at 9:00 Manager's wife Natsumi Okada (Staff) What is the manager like? Honest, serious, caring, and really... I'm thinking of both my employees and my customers. They are bright, everyone is friendly and easy to work with! Fish cake for topping Preparing Inari Sushi Preparation of gobo-ten Simmer gobo in dashi broth until tender. Preparation of Udon noodles with pork miso soup (Staff) What is the manager at your workplace like? I'm serious and firm at work. It would be interesting if it were home. (Many people ask for it. Making burdock chips Burdock chips rice seasoned and cooked with rice Opening at 11:00 (open for lunch) Customers as soon as the store opens Ordering is by meal ticket Toriten bukkake udon cooked rice with rice Tempura deep fried to order Shrimp tempura udon noodles 750yen Kitsune udon 580 yen Baby udon 0 yen Bukkake udon 530 yen Fried horse mackerel 180 yen Shrimp tempura and a big bowl (udon). Tempura Udon 950yen Pork miso soup udon 700yen Toriten bukkake udon 800yen Tempura zaru udon 950yen Meat udon 750yen Service Lunch Kake Udon (hot) Tempura bukkake udon noodles 950 yen Kamaage Udon 530yen Kama-age udon 530 yen Baby udon 0 yen Beef 280 yen Curry udon noodles with beef tendon 900yen (Baby) First udon looks delicious! Baby udon noodles 0 yen I come here on my lunch break because it's close to my work. I can come back with my family or I like noodles a lot. Smooth and glutinous Friends and popular people say the soup stock is delicious. 12:00 Kamatama Mentaiko Udon 700yen It was delicious. First visit on a friend's recommendation. I heard that Toriten (chicken tempura) is delicious. I ordered Toriten Udon Chicken tempura bukkake and (The meat is soft and fluffy inside. Crispy on the outside, fluffy and delicious. Noodles are very firm! Delicious I come here often. Lunch for work. Whatever you eat, it's delicious... and... I can't say enough about the burdock root. Burdock root tempura Curry udon 650 yen Toriten Bukkake Udon Toriten bukkake udon 800yen Strong and chewy udon Juicy chicken tempura with black pepper Meat udon Meat udon 750yen A lot of sweet and spicy seasoned beef. To the manager: &quot;Let's continue to work together as a triumvirate.&quot; Handmade top quality Izumo soba noodles made by hand from 6:00 a.m. Super katsudon rush! The &quot;Dashi-miri&quot; (Japanese soup stock) is delicious. Freshly made &quot;Mochitu Izumo Soba&quot; (Soba Noodle) Soba Set Meal with Maitake Tempura Curry Nanban Udon Set meal with deep-fried tofu There's a lot of variety here. I've only seen it here. Asaminami Ward, Hiroshima City, Hiroshima Prefecture Established 1998 Handmade Izumo soba noodles are popular. 6:46 6:47 Making 2 kg of dough Two types of flour blends Fill with water in 3 parts Mix with the tips of your fingers at first The amount of water added is determined by the day's weather and hand feeling chrysanthemum fir (Chrysanthemum morifolium) grouping We're going to stretch it out and curl it up. And this one, too, rather than extending it. Adjustment to 2mm thickness Flouring to prevent dough from sticking together Noodle dough completed Cutting Noodles This will be refrigerated for half a day. Tempura Wariko Soba is still the most popular. I'm particular about the sauce and broth. It is absolutely impossible to say that udon soup stock is the same as soba soup stock. I started out as a salesman. I've been the manager of this soba restaurant for 15 years. Clean and tidy kitchen Preparation of soup stock Using Hidaka kelp Take it out before it boils Horse mackerel, mackerel, dried sardines element of a countermeasure Duck Seiro Tare is completed. Udon soup stock preparation Mixing buckwheat broth The secret broth for udon and soba noodles is ready. Katsudon (pork cutlet served on top of a bowl of rice in a bowl of soup stock) is excellent! Rice preparation gogomoku gohan (rice with various ingredients) Carrots, burdocks meat Udon noodle making Making dough Add water Dough finished Mature Dough after ripening Apply pressure to dough 3 times (Staff) How many balls are in one piece? There are 8 to 10 of these 100-120 cups per day Overnight aged dough Stretching dough Cutting noodles 7:37 Rice is cooked Very popular at the restaurant! Preparation of Duck Meat for Kamo Nanban Soba Make grated radish Japanese yam Using Kagoshima-grown green radish Making grated radish Grated daikon radish completed Japanese yam Make Tororo Cabbage preparation Shredded cabbage Small bowl of salad Prepare a small bowl of condiments wasabi (Japanese horseradish) Green onion, grated radish Make Chawanmushi egg steam Chawanmushi (Steamed egg custard) with soft dashi broth Onion preparation onion Lemon green onion (edible plant, Allium cepa) sweet potato 10:19 Making Sobayu (buckwheat noodle soup) Sobayu attached to some set meals Making buckwheat-flavored zenzai buckwheat dumplings Ladies' Set includes Soba-Gaki Zenzai (buckwheat noodle soup) for dessert. Excellent buckwheat dumplings Deep fry loin cutlet Loin cutlet completed Preparation of fried chicken Homemade seasoned fried chicken completed. Boil Udon Noodles I'm trying to match the sticky texture of the udon. Between 25 and 30 minutes or so. This time of year, I'd imagine it would take about 25 minutes to get up there. This is the cold water machine now. If you don't cool it down, it's going to get looser. All of them are covered with ice. bribes I say eat a meal during the 30 minutes of bribery morning. Bribe time cleaning morning meeting Open for business 11:00 Opening Business Hours Parking lot available Total 130 seats Tables and seating available for leisurely meals 2nd floor waiting room Soba noodle making procedure Izumo Soba Soba set meal with maitake tempura: 1,435 yen Bunyoshi udon noodles 850 yen Soba set meal: 905 yen Katsu-don Soba set meal 1180 yen Soba-gaki zenzai 500 yen Customers arrive as soon as the store opens. Make Zaru Udon Making Tenzaru Soba 1.5minutes of boiling water, then put it in ice water. Making tempura Tenzaru Soba is completed. Make Mini Hire Katsudon Mini Hire Katsu-don set meal completed. Delivered in 3 minutes after ordering. Two men and a woman visit the store Ordered set meal with deep-fried tofu and koala set Making a koala set I'm glad it comes with fried potatoes. Set meal with deep-fried tofu is completed. Excuse me, sir. Deep-fried tofu. Mochi Udon is delicious! Two new customers visit the restaurant. Making Dattan Soba Noodles High nutritional value rutin maitake mushroom heaven Dattan-soba noodles with maitake mushroom tempura is completed. Make Maitake Tempura Soba Maitake Tempura Soba is completed. Here you go, maitake tempura soba. Make Katsu-don (pork cutlet served on top of a bowl of rice) Zaru soba and katsudon set is completed. zaru soba (buckwheat noodles) Tempura soba set meal is completed. Today's set includes zaru soba and katsu-don (pork cutlet served on top of a bowl of rice). Very tasty! I love katsudon. It's a great blessing to be able to eat that as a set! Make Curry Nanban Udon Set meal with deep-fried tofu Mini Tamago-don Set Lunch Making Tempura Wariko Soba Tempura Wariko Soba is completed. Fried mini soba set completed Tendon and Udon noodle set Make Katsu-don (pork cutlet served on top of a bowl of rice) Pork Cutlet Bowl with Soba Noodle Set Lunch is completed. 11:29 rice seasoned and cooked with rice savory egg custard Wariko soba set meal and Zaru soba set meal are completed. The set meal for two arrives in 5 minutes! Make Tenzaru Udon Making tempura Tenzaru Udon is completed. Make Tempura Wariko Soba and Tendon Soba Set Lunch tempura Tendon-soba set meal completed Tendon-soba set meal with hot soba noodles. The red bowl is the tempura sauce! Delicious! Yamakake Soba Tendon-soba set meal Maitake Tempura Soba Kakiage Soba and Gomoku Gohan A man comes to the restaurant by himself. bowl of rice topped with an egg 3 minutes to serve the bomb! Making Bunkichi Udon Seven people eat a set meal. It's a little more slippery than regular udon. I'd totally eat it in the winter. I've only seen it here. Make Katsu-Don Set Meal Making Katsu-don (pork cutlet served on top of a bowl of rice) Pork cutlet served on top of a bowl of rice is completed. Katsu-don set meal 1105 yen Juicy katsudon with dashi broth Thick and half-boiled egg is involved. Thick cutlet is very satisfying! I'm going to eat too much rice. Dashi has a deep taste Good with a firm and elastic texture. Eat guts with udon and katsudon! 11:44 Make Zaru soba set meal Zaru soba set meal Mini oyakodon set meal Mini oyakodon set meal completed. Make Katsu-don Soba Set Lunch Katsu-don&quot; pork cutlet served on top of a bowl of rice is completed. Pork cutlet bowl and soba noodle set meal is completed. Nabeyaki Udon Set meal in a pot This is the ladies set This is Zenzai Delicious (Staff) Are you full? A full serving! Satisfied and satisfied! Customers rush to Izumo Soba for Izumo Soba! Oyako-don set meal Thickening Curry Nanban Udon Making katsudon (pork cutlet served on top of a bowl of rice) oyakodon 11:53 Regulars Curry Nanban Udon The soup stock is delicious. Your soup stock is delicious. Ladies set I've decided on this one, so... There's a lot of variety in the food. I've got vegetables. Katsu Don Soba Set Meal Soba Set Meal with Maitake Tempura Order rush continues. zaru soba (buckwheat noodles) Set of Katsu-don (Bowl of rice topped with pork cutlet) Freshly prepared hot food served at high speed! The katsudon rush never stops! Katsu-don Soba Set Meal Soba Set Meal with Deep Fried Tofu Cooking is completed one after another Zaru soba completed The katsu-filet katsu-don rush just won't stop. Katsu-don zarusoba set meal Make a fried food set meal Fried chicken set meal completed. Making Tendon Set Lunch Tendon set meal completed Making Kamo Seiro Soba Nori (seaweed) Kamo Seiro Soba Noodles 1370 yen Freshly made Izumo Soba Noodles are chewy Aromatic and excellent thirst-quenching! Noodles are delicious in duck broth! Very popular Gomoku Gohan The sweetness of gentle dashi broth is working. You can't stop eating it, it's so good! Mix soba water and duck sauce A taste of unintentional relief