The departure horn sounds. Iron-blooded soldiers, you are all my brothers from the day you entered the third platoon. Let me tell you a story between brothers. At that time, I was still in the special operations team and our class was on a mission to rescue hostages. My comrade-in-arms was shot three times to save me. What happened to that comrade- in-arms? He left just like that . For more than a year after that, his mind was full of thoughts about this matter . He opened his eyes and closed his eyes. He said it was not nice. I had the heart to die. Later , I slowly figured it out. Even if I made myself so uncomfortable and suffered so much pain, I can't exchange for his life. I have to live well. I have to be worthy of him . There are many things I have to do. Yao Pai wants to do things that he has no time to do. As long as you ask me, I will do anything for you. I am not dead. What you have to do now is to train well and take exams. But don't be so polite between my brothers. Eat apples and buy Yao Pai beer. It's great to be back. Thank you for your hard work. Let's have a drink. Let Yao Pai go away . I'm so greedy. Come on, Yao Pai . Come on, let me say a few words . I wish Yao Pai a speedy recovery. Don't let the nurse hear. Thank you. Let's do it. Is this the photo? The one in the middle is the comrade who once saved Yao Platoon. Let's go. Four one, four two, enter Yao Platoon. Zheng Shuai is practicing. Sifu Yao Platoon came to see me again. This is the photo you asked me to bring last time. Thank you. Ah, Yao Pai, let's have a drink . Let's have a drink. What are you doing? What are you doing if you 're not doing anything ? There's a reporter outside, Yao Pai. Commander, there's a reporter looking for you. Come to me . Okay, okay, I'll be there in a while. Okay, walk slowly. I'm scared to death. I'm scared to death. I'm scared to death. Let's drink. Let 's drink. Let's drink. Let's take a whole sip. Come and laugh. Smile. Come and get ready . Do n't move. I'm the squad leader. I'll watch the armed police's lightning attack first. Criminals can't escape with their wings. Come on, don't say that. We have military uniforms. The 1-052 trainees who looked quite handsome in the photo praised it one after another. You see, Junlong and Zheng Shuai are quite photogenic. At 14:30, the first command headquarters observation point. On the plane, you said they were in the newspaper Should we also take advantage of it? That's for sure. This is the honor of our armed police force. Of course it's necessary. We belong to our class. The world's best brand of armed police in 2014 is a lightning strike. Criminals can't escape even if they have wings. Lao Gao, are you okay? Why are you giggling? Come on, come on, come on , it's interesting to see . Look at these two boys. Instructor Wen , these two soldiers were recruited by you. They seem to be the soldiers you led. When I first knew that Huang Junlong met that prisoner, it really shocked me. I was shocked and thought about it carefully. In such a situation at that time, it was easy for the prisoner to take advantage of the loophole because of this relationship. The consequences were really disastrous. If I think about it carefully, Comrade Junlong's thinking is quite mature. Huang Junlong can control the big issues of right and wrong. In principle, this boy is trustworthy. The head of the corps also read this report and called for the whole corps to learn from it. Director Liu, Political Commissar Zhai, and Platoon Leader Yao's parents were received, but a car was needed to send them there. Is one car not enough? Other family members also came. I ca n't explain clearly. You can come here in person. I'm here. I'm in a minor situation. I'll go and check it out . I'll wait for you in the hospital. Thank you for your hard work. These are all Tiezhu's family. This is Tiezhu's Shandong parents, Uncle Yao and Aunt Zhang. This is Li. Uncle and Aunt Wu are the grandparents. When they heard that Tie Zhu was injured, they all rushed to take care of Tie Zhu. I couldn't do anything. I brought them all here. This training is so painful. This training team and the third platoon The training is far worse than that of the special operations team. Let me tell you, when I was in the special operations team, I got up at five o'clock in the morning to do exercises. It was a five-kilometer run, followed by a four-hundred-meter obstacle course before meals. Five sets of pull-ups on the horizontal and parallel bars. Fifty parallel bar curls per group. Five groups of fifty per group . You have to train to death at the end of the day. After dinner, the real training begins . What do you think? I went to the captain and came to Tiezhu. Guess what surprise I have brought for you? It 's here. It's here. It's here. Tiezhu , old lady, seventh grandma, you're here. Seventh grandma, second mother-in-law, uncle. Master, you are all well. All are well. Grandpa, you are well, well. Seventh Grandma, Seventh Grandma, Master, why are you all here? All of you are here to see you. I'm okay. I'm okay. Don't worry, do n't cry. Don't cry. Grandma, don't cry. Don't cry. I'm fine . I'm fine. I'm fine. Let your grandparents take a good look at you. Yes, I really miss you. Thank you. It's okay. Political Commissar Liu Zhai, what's going on ? I didn't know Tiezhu until I went there. It's not easy. What's going on? Do you still remember the hostage rescue in Ningyuan Town six years ago? Do you remember? The young man Xiao Rong attempted a robbery and hijacked the store's security guard. Chinese Yao Tiezhu led a team on a rescue mission. One young man was shot dead. One gangster was captured alive. We sacrificed a special operations team member. I remember his name was Xu. Xu Yongxue seemed to be from Shandong. Bing Tiezhu's parents in Rizhao are Xu Yongxue's biological parents. Xu Yongxue is an only child. Chinese Armed Police When his father learned the bad news about his son's death, he couldn't believe it. Later, they rushed to Xu Yongxue's home and considered his biological parents as his biological parents. They swore to support the old man Tiezhu for Xu Yongxue. Our special forces team has an unwritten team rule : cadres are responsible for soldiers when they go out to perform tasks. Veterans are responsible for recruits. That year, Yao Tiezhu was the monitor of Xu Yongxue. A newly selected special operations team member , so Yao Pai has always believed that the sacrifice of his comrades was his own fault . So Yao Pai has to take care of two families all these years, so how busy can he be? Tie Zhu is as busy as a roller coaster every time he visits relatives. He has to take care of two sets of parents, two sets of grandparents, and all the elderly. With his little salary , let's put it together and see how we can help Tiezhu ! In this way, let's discuss the issue of accommodation for the elderly first. I've looked at the nearby guesthouses. The conditions are not very good after passing . Can you please arrange for Yao Pai's family to stay at the Starry Sky Group hotel? Let me arrange this. I must take good care of the elderly. It doesn't hurt. It doesn't hurt. It doesn't hurt anymore. This is my post . You need to take the amulet you asked for in the temple with you. Okay, okay, okay, I'll take it with me. I'll put it on. This is for safety . OK, OK, for safety. You sit down, Mom . I can wash those clothes myself . I'll wash them three handfuls or two. You guys eat them. Let 's eat, let's eat, come on, grandma, grandma, do you want to eat here, eat this, Ziqi, how are you doing? Don't worry. We have arranged which chief will receive the highest reception. Just these eight chiefs will pick them up. Master, please slow down . Uncle and aunt are here . Come on, auntie. Please slow down, hold on. Come on , hold on . Hold on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Bring the things. Master, slow down. That's what happened. Don't worry. I will tell everyone to take good care of these eight old people. Then you are tired and have a rest. If you have anything, please call me. Okay, then go back first. Slow down, Ziqi, bye. It's really not easy for us , Yao Pai. Eat dumplings, eat dumplings, come eat dumplings , I'll come by myself, I'll come by myself, I'll come by myself, eat, eat , eat, eat, eat, eat, eat more, eat more, mother, eat slowly, slowly, don't laugh, don't drink together. Drink soup. Eat more soup . No need to feed me. Your mother, feed you Sifu. You need to say something. I don't know what to say and I don't want to say anything. I really feel that sometimes I am so indebted that you owe me. Do n't I owe you more for being beaten? I really didn't expect that Yao Pai could do such a thing for me this time . You said that Yao Pai has been carrying so many burdens for so many years. How many people can do it? This is me. Heroes in my mind. Actually, I remember that there were many great heroes in my mind when I was little. But now I realize that such great heroes are around us. This is the belief of heroes. The responsibilities of heroes. The mushrooms in the mountains are my love. Sell scraps. Put the money in my pocket. Others like to eat braised pork. I like to eat vegetables. If you can save a piece of RMB, it is a piece. The mushrooms in the mountains are my love. Sell the scraps. Put the money in my pocket. They like to eat braised pork. I like to eat vegetables. If you can save a piece of RMB, it is. Mr. Sun, hello. Hello, hello. Hello. This is my friend Zheng Shuai. This is Mr. Sun. Hello Then I won't disturb Ziqi. I'm leaving first. You go ahead and do your work. Mr. Sun, please sit down and salute. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you for studying the Fa , thank you for cultivating a good boy for the army , thank you , where are you, we haven't had time to thank you yet . I don't think it's necessary for these money matters. Old uncle, this is a little thought from our third platoon. You just accept it first. Captain Ma, it's getting late. Let's take all the old people on board first. The three of you must help the old people put their luggage in place. It's good tea. I didn't expect Miss Zhou to be so knowledgeable about tea ceremony. Mr. Sun, thank you. Does Ms. Zhou have any new projects to develop when she comes to Haicheng this time ? Can we have deeper cooperation? I'm here for a private matter. My friend just now is a soldier in the army here. I heard that his platoon leader wanted to save the country. He has a broken arm. I came here to help him bring some things. I have always admired those who dare to sacrifice their lives for justice. Can Ms. Zhou introduce me to me so that I can express my respect ? It is rare that Mr. Sun is so caring. I will contact you for you. There used to be a big hen, right? She often went to your house and drank tea at our house. Yao Pai, guess what color the eggs would be when they were laid. What color could the eggs be? They were either white or yellow. Yao Pai tea eggs. By the way, tea eggs, tea eggs, you can really make things up, Zi Qi, Zi Qi, Mr. Sun , don't, don't give it to me, give it to me. These two are Yao Pai, these are my good buddies. Zi Qi is my best friend of the opposite sex. This is Mr. Sun, they listen. After I talk about you, I must come and see you. No matter how hard I try to persuade you, it's useless. Mr. Sun has been busy contacting you about the recording studio these two days. He heard that you have a birthday today and specially booked a banquet to celebrate you . Let's go together. Mr. Sun is waiting for us there. Let 's go with my brother. Please have a seat . Please have a seat. Sir, come and sit down. Please have a seat. Platoon leader Yao is sorry to disturb your rest. I'm ignorant and caused you to come all the way. Yao Platoon leader, please don't go outside. I have always admired soldiers, so as soon as I heard about you, I told Miss Zhou that I had to come. I must see with my own eyes the Haicheng heroes in the news. What kind of heroes? They were just bragging about the situation at that time. What was it like? What was the situation at that time ? In fact, it was just a coincidence. It was an accident . Don't listen to our Yao Pai who said it was so easy. If we spared a few of us, our lives would not have been saved. That said, he sounded like a poacher. Have you caught it? We and the escaped prisoners were all injured at that time, and Yao Pai was also seriously injured. So I heard that there are often poachers in the woods around Haicheng. People have accidentally injured civilians before, and I didn't expect to do this. Now they are all very professional, equipped, well hidden, and very secretive. If you are going to perform missions in the woods in the future, you have to pay special attention to areas with dense bushes. Remember to make more noise and say something to let them know that they are human beings. There's nothing wrong with the prey. I can call you back . That 's all. That's all in the kitchen. You even brought the wine so you're so awesome. Nonsense. Who am I, Yu Sifu? Come on, come on. There are peanuts, there are peanuts. Come on, Junlong, come on, come on the hour , tonight, don't get drunk, come on, let's go, let's go , let 's go. Why is it jealous? Is this jealous ? What's going on with Sifu? What's this? I don't know. Ah, at least the peanuts are real. Otherwise, we will be jealous and eat peanuts. What do you think? Eat some peanuts. But Junlong especially wants to thank you . How can I thank you for your life-saving grace? Everything is wrong. I will remember your good deeds in the past . But anyway, there are no outsiders today. I especially want to ask you why you put all the credit on me. What kind of hero am I ? By the way, did you say that Yao Pai can come back after he recovers ? It must be possible , but after all, Yao Pai only has one arm left. What can you say? You and I tell you Sifu. From now on, we are all Yao Pai's right-hand men. We all have his arms . But this matter is not what we worry about. The organizations above are not. Now that we 've arranged it, let's think of some way to give something to Yao Pai. What can we give? Zheng Shuai. Yao Pai gave you that backpack rope . Is the backpack rope here ? You see, this is not an ordinary backpack rope. Yao Pai once told me that this backpack rope once had a pair of grasshoppers clinging to it. But he said again, he also believes that this backpack rope will be used in the future. The best special operations sniper. Yes, special operations snipers must win. As long as they pass the selection of the special operations team, this is the best gift for Yao Platoon . From now on, you two will become a sworn grasshopper and you will become Yao Platoon in the future. If your right-hand man doesn't dislike me and you add me, we will be Yao Pai's three-headed and six-armed man. Then today is a God-given opportunity for us. Otherwise, how about we become sworn sworn friends? It's a really good idea . Bye, let's do it. Aren't we in the same year? My birthday is the oldest. Take advantage and be the boss . I have the youngest birthday, so be the third child. Okay, then I have brothers and brothers. Come here, I, Zheng Shuai , Huang Junlong , and I, Yu Sifu, became brothers today. Life and death depend on us for blessings and misfortunes together . The sky and the bright moon are my witnesses. If you betray your trust, you will be punished by heaven . Then use vinegar instead of wine. This is too exciting. Some people told me that the Eighth Squadron has been in that place with high mountains and far away from the emperor. Nothing has happened in sixty years. It's no big deal. I replied that it's no big deal. But ordinary positions are grueling. Who knows? Over the years, the officers and soldiers of the Eighth Squadron have changed one after another. But the spirit of the Eighth Squadron has not changed. Today we want to commend the Eighth Squadron and commend the third platoon leader of the Eighth Squadron, Yao Tiezhu, Soldier Zheng. Handsome Huang Junlong and the others showed fearless heroism in the process of capturing the fugitives, which is worth learning from every comrade here, especially Comrade Yao Tiezhu. Maybe you don't know that eight years ago , his comrades sacrificed their lives to save him. From that day on, Comrade Yao Tiezhu He took care of his comrade's relatives as his own. Today, Comrade Yao Tiezhu rescued his comrade from the enemy's gun and gave an arm. Comrades, the spirit of the 8th Squadron is to go on and on. The achievements of the 8th Squadron are made with life and blood . We must learn from them and strive to be qualified Four Soldiers. The Political Department of Haishan Corps issued an order to Zheng Shuai and Huang Junlong to record the third-class merit. The code telegram was sent to Yao Tiezhu to record the second-class merit. Why did you run away? Your situation is just a judgment. It's only been three or four years. Huang Huang Junlong, you kid, stop being so arrogant in front of me. Then tell me if Xiaoyu changed her phone number. Why can't I contact her? Do you think Xiaoyu doesn't know who shot her brother? I'm warning you with one shot . From now on, you stay away from me. It sounds like a poacher has been caught. Salute , what kind of welcome are you doing? Yao Pai is doing some famous training. When you don't train at the training ground, what else is there? Do you look like a soldier? Push-ups ready for a hundred starts . Hold back the pain. Shield*Combat Boots*Fire Wind Phoenix. The military spirit raises the dream of a strong army. A man travels to his daughter's love. My heart bravely embarks on a journey.