5560 square miles. That is the size of the map in the 2009 video That is roughly the size of Connecticut, and basically nothing but empty space. It takes place in a post-apocalyptic world large map is really the only special part The driving is mediocre, the races against and the graphics have that classic beige puke Just like the map, the entire game is a large, When it comes to game maps, there is almost The roads and wilderness, stuff that has to but places where you don't really have anything Hallways between the action. The issue with these is that they're kinda While games are art, the majority are also So each and every game with a consistent world One of the simplest solutions has been around Pokemon is a game that almost entirely consists and towns populating whatever region you're These games are really two slightly different The routes serve as obstacle courses, throwing way to strengthen and build your pokemon team. Still, though, despite the life given into is in the cities and towns.The most iconic battles. Each and every city is full of people and serve as entirely standalone minigames. Each and every location is a hotspot not just But to make all of this possible, to give battles and story events, the routes are necessary. Not just to connect these places, but to serve game, grinding for levels. These two mechanics are almost always combined, don't get stronger at the boss, you get and grinding make the payoff of beating a had to put real effort towards your goal. However, not every RPG has levels. Shadow of the Colossus is a deeply empty game. The appeal of the game is, at first, the boss but you don't spend most of your time fighting. Most of the time is spent doing this. Riding through a desolate world.For a roleplaying on the roleplay. The world is silent, as Wander and his horse a girl named Mono. Between the battles, you need to ride to every having you travel through long stretches of It's painfully barren. Any tiny bit of content feels like an oasis, but you and your own thoughts. The game itself feels self-reflective, asking At the start of the game they feel terrifying, They weren't really harming anything, and land, and you're the one exterminating them. The empty space in the journey between these There's almost nothing to distract or entertain you in the position of Wander, the main character. You think the things he might be thinking, and even his decision to keep going, all to Most games, however, adopt the exact opposite As much as Shadow of the Colossus's decision In fact, for all games revolving around adventure, just as unfun: the trip back. For the first playthrough of a game, the biggest happen, what you'll see, what you'll do, You know these places now, that won't change. So a lot of games focused squarely around the lengths you need to travel. The most classic examples are vehicles. Whether its a car or a horse or a motorcycle the most natural way to travel some boring It can even turn the landscape into a bit With higher speed comes higher risk, so the serve no danger become a new form of obstacle. My favorite example of this is Just Cause Just Cause 2's map was filled with tiny collectibles and secrets to hold the player Just Cause 3 made the decision to abandon towns being the smallest areas available, to the paltry villages of the last game, but were longer. Just Cause 3 solved this issue with the introduction While the previous game had the grappling two was pretty... slow. The normally high action gameplay was interrupted cars most often the best way to get around. The wingsuit changes the entire chemistry While the entire fun of the game before was I found the wingsuit more fun than the destruction Suddenly, the landscape of Just Cause 3, this that you get to define. While you can soar peacefully in the open to the ground as possible. Weaving between trees and cars and buildings, adrenaline I could get. There were times where I'd just fly around any objectives and taking in this new dimension and dangerous and rewarding. I wanna play Just Cause 3 while writing this, Unfortunately, not every game can have a wingsuit, entertainment that not even vehicles cut the So, eventually, game developers went: let's Though to be honest, saying "eventually" The first game to have fast travel was Dragon Being one of the earliest and most barebone empty space that the Pokemon games would later Understanding this even back then, Dragon sent you directly back to the castle, no backtracking Pokemon would also give you this ability in letting you travel to any city or town you've As time went on, though, games integrated very level design. The Borderlands 2 level, A Dam Fine Rescue, that kidnapped the leader of the Crimson Raiders, The design of Borderlands 2 is a lot like connected to at least 2 others, forming one However, in the mission to save Roland, this After fighting your way through a camp and the Bloodshot Stronghold, diving headfirst This mission might be the longest action sequence meeting you in every single room and hallway You face turrets and nomads and psychos and in close quarters and long quarters and both It's kind of difficult to actually die in you're downed, there's an enemy right excessive in a fantastic way. After fighting through the hordes of enemies, a prison cell. But before you can free him, he's captured Being the enemy to a number of forces, Hyperion this already excessive mission becomes a full robots, with you stuck in the middle of it. Fitting to the mission extending, you go out Ramparts, an open warzone with Roland being The second entire half of this mission is than the first. The war seems brutal and equal at first, taking you plunge into the ramparts, the clearer By the end, it's only you against the entire boss of the mission, the Warden bot itself. Out of the normal bosses in the game, you around you or something psychotic like that, It has a classic video game big obvious weak You're forced to deal with waves of Hyperion including badass loaders, as well as rockets a fun little cap to the already chaotic level. After managing to free Roland and kill Warden, first game if you played as him, a turret the only times you get to actually fight with All that's left is to clear out a final peaceful end. Now, Borderlands has always had fast travel, you to use it, but the end of A Dam Fine Rescue option. To head back through both entire regions would Even Roland just teleports. Unlike the rest of the areas in the game, really serve another purpose, not even as The only reason it was here was to throw enemies enemies are gone, outside of some side missions, Just teleport out, the game designers say. And honestly, I can't really argue with There are even games that don't just remove The Super Mario Galaxy games are a wonderful with some of the most atmospheric and interesting had to offer. That being said, I've never been able to time, we're not really playing one level. You play this mini-level then shoot to the next little level. Sometimes the only thing connecting these saying it's the same level, deal with it. The level design in Super Mario Galaxy is with a fancy fast travel between every level. Truthfully, this isn't an open world game that, but its a regular, linear mario game around the position of the planets around Empty space is taken rather literally, with space, but even the spaces between planets You don't spend time traveling it, you're a nice view in the process. In comparison to all of these varied approaches, Let's make all of it empty space. To describe Fuel as a video game is a little The game makes the hilarious decision to add ever actually use the roads. Driving through the wilderness is just plain the game can ever offer you. I watched the entire 2 hour long video "A to chatters or random tangents, the only thing is, "wow, this game has a big map. This map is so big. This game map is massive." The only other times he even mentioned the lazy glitches and re-used assets. Some areas put the exact same model right small asset pool a thousand times over so look at. Nonsensical stone ruins and formations, broken to use as ramps. The game can hardly render the vast landscape is still known, with foliage disappearing vague blur of green or brown or black. As said before, the universe of Fuel is a realistic ones I've ever seen. While Fallout calls its worlds wastelands, technological remnants, laser beams and communities The stories are huge in stakes and scale, in every corner of the map. If the bombs didn't drop in the fallout For Fuel, though, it might have been a more was still around. It's the true definition of a wasteland, miles. There is no special bits of content you get the journey worth it. It is just nothing. And this isn't some clever turnaround like, game sucks. It's so bad, but I still kinda love it, It's not a game I'd ever subject myself that the idea was thought of and tried and And, while I don't think Fuel was anything game fascinated with empty worlds. The Long Drive released in 2019, to surprising The goal of the game is to drive, and I truly You've given a massive set of controls, of your car, making you balance each of the there isn't actually a destination in The The best words to describe the game are survival like that. Your goal is truly just to drive, with no The landscape around you is procedurally generated. Most times when a game uses procedural generation, you at all times. Survival games love it, since the environment that you use to succeed and build in the game. Minecraft is the most famous example, but Terraria all use it to turn their expansive The whole genre of roguelites depend entirely run unique, promising that you will never Enter the Gungeon. All of these games use this tool to give the Long Drive uses it for another purpose. To give the player endless, infinite nothing. There are things to be found, structures that You can find places with no use, nothing given You can drive on a stretch of nothing for no guarantee you'll be provided with what The only guarantee is a near endless desert. There's a youtube channel named "How Big and travels through as many video game maps The time spent can vary anywhere from minutes ones that need to be split into parts. That's to say, hours long parts. 5, 6, 7, 8 hours, traveling through one single The series that I'm most fascinated with, Kerbal Space Program. What Kerbal Space Program is known for is requiring a deep knowledge of the game's all of your work falls apart the instant you However, for whatever reason, you can ignore walk around. This is the quest that "How Big is the Map?" started; to walk across just half of the game's Part 1 of the series is entirely on a plane Across the video, the only difference visible In fact, part 2 is the exact same way, and However, 22 and a half hours into the journey, in the distance. Now things are getting interesting. Over the last 4 hours in part 3, the mountain to... a few more pixels. After about 4 more hours, we finally see how And slowly, but surely, by part 7 of the series, 25 hours later. The total length of the series so far, from a half hours long. And the fun thing is, the series is unfinished. In fact, it's not even close. With the speed of the Kerbal and the size just half of it is somewhere around 873 hours. A new part sadly hasn't been uploaded for will travel the entire thing. Because, for some reason, we feel a need to People have gotten to the edge of The Long generating entirely. Multiple videos traverse the entire map of Daggerfall, these painfully long journeys, it all worth it. It can't just be curiosity, we know there's along by something to see every inch of these In most games, these roads are small. As short as they can be, letting the player to go. But for some games, whether on accident or Things you travel for the sake of traveling. But, to me, the thing that draws people to every other game, every other connecting point For some people, the only thing it takes is is an end to find. And so, they will. No matter what it takes. Thank you, and have a nice day.