Hey everyone, and welcome to TopThink. Today, we people prefer to be alone. 1. The One Percent many social situations are surprisingly just like anybody else, but they rarely encounter Let's say one out of every 100 people is of those 100 people, what are the odds you would This is a dilemma that highly intelligent people easy for the average person to meet someone uncommon for highly intelligent people to individuals who truly understand them, so it's 2. Erratic Routines people keep the most unpredictable schedules. late into the day. Their jobs are unusual, As a result, many highly intelligent people of the world. Some are night owls. Some are early according to a schedule that only they understand. Smart people are very picky about whom they true of introverted intellectuals. By default, meet. They look for problems in everyone, and That's the downside of being clever and can quickly and easily imagine a dozen Most of the time, their pickiness is a form accustomed to knowing everything, so they may vulnerability. In other words, highly intelligent painful a bad friendship or relationship can be. Many brilliant people prefer to be alone because themselves. After all, who understands you better self-talk is not only therapeutic It may look and sound strange to the average the world's brightest people. They talk Because they rarely encounter other people who 5. The Odd Man Out be the odd man out. They don't like missing things jealous when they see friends and even strangers But highly intelligent individuals don't mind friends or strangers or wish they were living intelligent person will happily be the odd man 6. Extra Weight teamwork and cooperation to solve problems. It may a single task, but highly intelligent people That doesn't mean highly intelligent high-level environments, intellectuals flourish by But when it comes to low-level problems, the When a basic problem must be solved, the most solution without asking for help. In many intelligent people feel like their team most people don't see problems as clearly as they people prefer to work alone. Socializing has many advantages for many people. relaxation, or social connectivity. It can lead relationships. But most of the time... socializing Highly intellectual people try to be productive as time, so they don't leave much room in their smartest people prefer solitude because they're 8. Patterns of Strangeness percentage of people in the world qualify only a tiny percentage of people enjoy solitude in the greater population, so it makes sense Intelligent people are more likely to have someone of average intelligence. For example, social relationships as much as the average or socially awkward. They don't benefit from Everyone knows brilliant people are outliers sociability. You and I might think their but why would the world's most intelligent 9. Small Social Circles but their antisocial tendencies may stem from relationships. In many cases, the most intelligent because their social needs are satisfied by the Many intelligent people are skilled at would much rather bond closely with one person people. That's why most intellectuals keep bother expanding their social circles because the 10. Unusual Expectations the world in an unusual way. Whether they their perspectives don't always align with many people find highly intelligent individuals But highly intelligent people feel the many of the smartest people crave habits and decisions tend to drive them crazy. 11. Everyday Misunderstandings met had trouble understanding you? That's how most have above-average IQs, but highly intelligent especially when talking to people who It's common, for example, for intelligent people in the conversation. They assume that other but people are often confused and unsure what everyone you meet, spending time alone 12. Solitary Stimulation most of their time alone because many of more than one person. For example, intelligent and creative activities like reading and learning about a new subject, and challenging These are all solitary activities, which that's hard to find in many social settings. but they don't do it on purpose. They simply 13. Tedious Explanations especially when people don't see things the highly intelligent people spend much of their teammates and coworkers. By the time they've their momentum and wasted valuable time. people to accelerate ahead of the competition. better final product because they don't 14. Real Social Value confidence or self-esteem, but intelligent people passions, and intellectual pursuits. To achieving something remarkable is far more So, they keep to themselves. They don't need to them the same confidence or satisfaction. enjoy compliments, good conversations, meaningful things in their lives have 15. Pointless Conflicts social conflicts. They don't want to cause drama the drama of others. Why? Because they see most don't see the merit in arguing for social Instead, the most brilliant people conflict. They keep to themselves so that meaningful goals. While others are stirring up intellectual individuals prefer to be alone. sure to subscribe because more