Hayase Guitar Studio is located in Takeda City, Oita Prefecture. This time I will introduce the production process of an acoustic guitar. Mr. Rin Hayase, owner of &quot;Hayase Guitar&quot;. He makes guitars every day in his own workshop, which is a renovated old folk house. This time, I will introduce a digest of videos shot over a period of 4 months. I have also created a full version video that explains guitar production in more detail. If you would like to take a closer look at the production process, please check out. Mr. Hayase started making guitars in Takeda City eight years ago. He is one of the few guitar luthiers (makers) in Japan I was born in Saitama Prefecture and stayed there until I graduated from high school. It's been 8 years since I trained in Nagano and left there to become independent here. I've loved making things since I was a child. My father was a sculptor, so I borrowed his tools. I mainly made things using wood and things like that. Among them, I like things that make sounds. My father bought me a book about ethnic musical instruments, I used to watch it and make things. Also, if I found something interesting, My home is in the countryside, so when I come home I'm already bored. I don't have that many friends around either. So I was doing a lot of things to kill time by myself. I've always liked working with my hands. Make the decorative part called &quot;Rosetta&quot; in the center of the guitar. Cut the grooves with a homemade circle cutter. Dig a groove with a Dremel. Rosetta has various designs. This time, he will finely process the parts of the marquetry and fit them together. Decorate the outside part of the parquet. Insert parts such as thinly cut veneers. Rosetta is completed. Hold it down with a bamboo stick called a ``Go-bar'' and let it sit for several hours. After gluing, flatten the rosette using a small plane and sandpaper. Make a hole called the &quot;sound hole&quot; in the center of the guitar. This is the process of attaching a framework called a &quot;brace&quot; to the board. This work is essential for reinforcing the body and creating a good tone. This is &quot;X bracing&quot;, which is made by crossing materials called &quot;braces&quot;. A bracing pattern that uses two X bracings is called &quot;double X bracing.&quot; *You can see the detailed production process of the brace in the full version video. He will process it so that all the braces are connected. By doing so, the entire surface plate acts as one vibrating body. Glue the brace to the top plate. This round base is called a &quot;radius dish.&quot; You can glue the brace so that the top plate has a curved surface. It seems that various materials are used for the Go-bar, which is a support stick. Hayase Guitar Studio uses bamboo grown on the premises. Work using Go-bar will appear many times. I feel something like architectural beauty in its appearance. A few hours later. Remove the Go-bar. Use sandpaper to clean the glued surface. The pasting of the top plate braces has been completed. Next, crimp the &quot;bridge plate&quot; using a batten. The bridge plate is a part placed directly below the bridge. Crimp the reinforcing material in the same way. At this point, the work of gluing the parts of the top board is completed. Preparing the back board. Hayase, who loved making things, As a result, He decided to study philosophy at university. There is something called &quot;existential philosophy&quot;. I like Kierkegaard, who is said to be the founder and pioneer. I was mainly studying that person while doing it. It's like digging deeper into yourself. Books like ``Deadly Diseases'' are famous, I read it in an ethics class in high school and studied it with the thought, I wanted to know about myself. At first, I didn't really know what I was thinking. I don't even know what I want to do. First of all, philosophy is about learning how to think. In the end, one of the things I wanted to learn Now I know the answer to what I really wanted to do. The answer was, &quot;I want to make the instrument I've always dreamed of.&quot; After graduating from university. I was feeling a little dizzy after that. I'm starting to understand more and more. I think guitar making is the most suitable for making musical instruments. The only instrument I could play was the guitar, That's probably why I started it. At this point, pasting the bracing on the back board is completed. The next step is to prepare the side board. Prepare the surface with a scraper. Apply heat with a bending iron Bending it little by little while adjusting the force It fit perfectly. Fix it. Glue the heel block. The heel block is the joint between the neck and body. *Heel block production is explained in detail in the full version. Fix and glue for about half a day. Next, attach the end block to the bottom of the body. After installing the heel block and end block, Next, cut the protruding parts of the heel block and end block. Then, shave the sides to match the curved surface of the back board. Lunch time. Mr. Hayase lives with his wife and three children. He always interact with his children. The ideal situation was for our lives to not be fragmented. Rather than being clearly separated into on and off. I like how it feels like they are loosely connected, yet separated. I really feel like we're living together. Although we are father and children, I rely on my wife a lot and I can't thank her enough. Anyway, spending time with the kids is fun. The next step is to attach the lining to the boards. This will be the adhesive surface between the body and the board. Fasten the lining with clips. Let this dry for a while. Paste the lining on the other side as well. Although it is omitted in the main story, The next step is ``adhesion to prevent cracking.'' Glue it using battens. Anti-cracking is pasted on the entire side. The anti-cracking adhesive has been completed. Finish with sandpaper. The next step is to prepare the adhesive surface of the body. He will work using various tools such as a small plane. Polishing using a radius dish. The next step is to mold the top board braces. He will process the brace using a chisel. Processed to produce a good tone while maintaining strength. Bracing is a very stressful job. Work with full concentration. While cutting, tap and check the resonance as you work. Finish using sandpaper. The bracing process on the top board has been completed. Next is molding the bracing on the back side. Use a plane to add height. Cut the sides of the brace diagonally using a small plane. Sharpen the tip of the bracing to make it sharp. Trim it with sandpaper. Shape the brace with a chisel. Adjust the shape with a chisel while aligning the height of the tip. Trim it with sandpaper. Cut off the excess with a bandsaw. The bracing of the board is now complete. It's finally time to assemble the body. Dig a groove for the brace to go into. Carefully carve while adjusting the height. Also fine-tune the braces. Check the adhesive surface. Adjust the front side in the same way. Apply adhesive. Glue the back plate. Let it dry for a while. Gluing is complete. It was glued together nicely. Glue the top plate. The adhesion of the top board has also been completed. Remove the mold. Use a trimmer to trim the excess parts of the top and back boards. Cut away the part where the board protrudes. Next is the side cutting work. Although it is edited briefly in the video, sharpening is a considerable amount of work. Check with a ruler to create a flat surface. Polish it with a sander. The next step is a process called &quot;purfling&quot; and &quot;binding.&quot; Use a trimmer to trim the corners of the body. The process is to decorate the edges along the corners of this shaved body. First, He will perform a process called ``purfling''. Attach long and thin boards. Purflings are attached to the inside of the binding. First, Attach the purfling and then attach the binding to the outside. It may be a little difficult to get a good idea from the explanation, but I think you'll understand better when you actually see the work done, Glue the purfling to the groove and secure with tape. Pasting of the surface is completed. Paste the back side in the same way. Let this dry for a while. thank you. His eldest daughter Konoha left a letter. He also has lunch here. His wife's cooking is always delicious. Mr. and Mrs. Hayase are the same age. It was a very fateful encounter. We met during the university entrance exam. It was a recommendation entrance exam. It was her who was sitting next to me. That was the first time we had a conversation. After we started dating, I had the impression When we started dating, I had a feeling we would be together forever. So it seems like we can be together forever. Over time, the two students became a family. They spend their days with children smiling constantly. I really want children to be able to grow and grow freely. I want them to grow up happily. I don't want to disturb them too much. There are some things they can't do because they're a child. I would like to support that. I'm the type of person who always does unnecessary things. So it would be good if we could reduce those unnecessary things. When they want to do something, I do it in hopes of being able to help. Next is pasting the binding. Attach a long thin plate called binding to the corner of the body. *The binding material processing scene is introduced in the full version video. The binding is not pasted all at once, but the process is divided into several steps. It is a process that involves repeated detailed work and heavy lifting. Leave this to dry. Divide this work into several steps and process the entire front and back sides. The full version video contains detailed information about the process, After several steps, the final paste was completed. Next, process the lower end of the body. First, attach the purfling. Paste the ebony material. Finishing the binding. Here again, steady and careful work is required. First of all, I want to make it carefully and accurately. I wanted to make something beautiful. I want to create a beautiful instrument that can be assembled into its final form. Including that tone. There are also things like tone, ease of playing, and longevity. I don't want to make something that looks ugly. I think people create things that are ugly. Should I say &quot;not so beautiful&quot;? There is a sense of deliberateness or some kind of intention behind it. Something different tries to creep into the work of people Ugly things are born when such impure intentions are involved. I would like to create works that are as free of such impurities as possible. I want to make something natural. The next step is to process the joint between the body and neck. Dig a groove with a drill. Dig the dovetail tenon with a router. Next is processing the fingerboard. He will process the board so that the width is just right. Next, dig the grooves for the frets on the fingerboard. The next step is binding and purfling the fingerboard. Dig a groove with a trimmer. Glue the purfling and binding. Let this dry for a while. Pasting is complete. Shape the fingerboard into an arch shape. Most acoustic guitars have an arch on the fingerboard to make it easier to play. He will process it using planes and sandpaper to create the desired arch. Place position marks on the side of the fingerboard. The next process is ``forming the neck''. Cut one board and stack it to prepare the adhesive surface. After gluing, fix it and let it dry for a while. Smooth the surface with a plane and sandpaper. This is a groove for inserting an iron core called a &quot;truss rod&quot;. Also dig a groove for the two rods. Shave off the head part. Next, attach the veneer to the back of the head. Install the truss rod. Secure it by pressing it with filler wood. Leave this to dry. The next step is processing the head plate. Dig a groove in the plate. Process the veneer to make it thinner. Put this in the groove. Cut the tip and apply glue. Adjust the height using a chisel. Perform this work on all grooves. Trim the outline. Trim it with sandpaper. This is the edge decoration part of the head plate. Glue while hammering nails to secure. Create a logo to be placed on the headplate. It's quite a severe task of shaving the white pearl oyster into thin pieces. There are many different processes involved in making a guitar. There are dozens of steps. There is a moment in each process when you feel like it's finished. For example, if you embed various pieces of wood into boards and then flatten and polish them, patterns will emerge. At that time, I feel a great sense of accomplishment. I was like, ``It turned out beautifully! It turned out even better than I expected.'' This has happened dozens of times. The process itself is really fun. Also, the moment when the sound comes out at the end is great. In the end, everything that I have accumulated becomes a single instrument, and the sound comes out. I think those two things are really fun while I'm doing it. Glue the head plate. After gluing, remove unnecessary parts of the head. Drill a hole for the peg. Remove unnecessary parts of the neck. Cut out the dovetail tenon at the joint on the neck side. Join the neck and body. Now dig a groove on the body side as well. After this, two rods will fit into this groove. Also finish the fingerboard. Binding is applied to the arched fingerboard. Remove the neck and glue the fingerboard on. Gluing the fingerboard. Apply epoxy adhesive. Insert the two rods. Glue the fingerboard. Fix it firmly. Leave it for about 1 to 2 days. Gluing the fingerboard has been completed. Shaping the neck. First, cut off the unnecessary part of the neck. Shape it using a saw file or a small knife. The work of creating curved surfaces on the neck is all done by hand. It's an amazing skill. The heel and head parts were roughly angular, but as the work progressed, beautiful curves were created. Smooth the surface with sandpaper. After shaping the neck, he will polish it with sandpaper. He is working on chamfering the binding part of the body. Finish with a scraper and sandpaper. The next process is &quot;filling work&quot;. Work to ensure that painting can be done smoothly at the base stage. A resin-like paint called shellac is used to fill in the tiny holes After applying shellac, let it dry for a while. Repeat this process twice. Next, he will apply a sealant called a filler. Wood has extremely small holes called &quot;conduits.&quot; The role of this filler is to fill in that hole. This will prevent paint from being inhaled. The neck sealing work is now complete. Next, seal the sides and back. Sprinkle pumice powder and polish with a cloth to fill in the holes. Rub the surface with a pad soaked with alcohol and shellac. If it does not fill up at once, carefully repeat the process After sealing, scrape off any remaining residue or shellac layer Now it's time to join the body and neck. Apply adhesive and crimp. Once the neck is connected to the body, the next step is to start painting. Painting work. The top coat will be applied in two parts. This is the first coat of paint. For the first top coat, apply 8 coats of lacquer. After the first coat is finished, let it dry for a few days. Next is the final adjustment of the fingerboard surface. First prepare the surface. File both ends of the groove. This is &quot;Fret Wire&quot;. Cut it a little longer than the width of the fret and set it aside. Apply instant adhesive and drive the frets into the grooves. Cut off the protruding part of the fret. After that, he will chamfer the edges of the frets. Perform intermediate polishing. At this point, we have been shooting for about 4 months. The rainy season has ended, and I can hear the voices of children The guitar is finally nearing completion. At first, the wood was rough, but now it's shiny. However, it is only after this that she truly shows her beauty. Please watch till the end as it will be a moving and beautiful finish. The grit of the sandpaper also becomes finer and finer. Every time the sound quality changes, I feel like I'm getting closer to completion. After finishing the intermediate polishing, the second top coat will be applied. Repeat the finishing coat 6 times to complete. Painting is complete. After painting is completed, the frets are rubbed together and molded. Use a special file to shape the flat upper surface of the fret into a round shape. Use a file to remove the corners on both ends of the fret. Polish the fingerboard and frets. Install the nut and cut the groove. A nut is a square rod-shaped part After aligning the nut material with the groove, After painting, let it dry for about a week and then do the final polishing. The brilliance has increased significantly. In this video, I have omitted a lot of the polishing scenes for each work. The amount of work required for the polishing scene alone exceeds several hours. A lot of work has gone into it before it is completed. The final polishing work has been completed. Let's start the buffing work. First, erase the scratches on the paper using a coarse compound. Any areas that cannot be polished by machine will be cleaned by hand. After buffing with coarse compound, Finally, the details are polished by hand and the buffing process is complete. Gluing the bridge. Bridge is a part that fixes one end of the string to the body *The bridge production and adjustment scenes are recorded in the full version video. After positioning the bridge, crimp it with a clamp. After leaving it for about half a day, remove the clamp. Drill the holes for the bridge pins with a drill. Use a reamer to enlarge the diameter of the hole to match the size of the bridge pin. Cut the groove for the string to come out of the bridge pin hole Perform peg installation work. The peg is a part that acts as a thread winder and is attached to the head. First, he will hammer in the metal fittings that will serve as the base for installation. Just attach the pegs and it will be done. Today is the last time I will be following Mr. Hayase's guitar making. I still don't have a clear idea of the ideal sound or design. But it's still there, albeit vaguely. That's why I'm trying to get closer to that. As I create that image, I want to refine it more and more. Ultimately, I'm doing this with the intention of finding an answer. As I work on it, I want to aim for a design and sound that will make you think, ``This is the finished product.'' But that doesn't mean it's the only answer. For example, ``If I were to make a small guitar, this would be the finished product.'' Sweet-sounding guitar Hard-sounding guitar. Everyone has their own preferences, so it's best to follow them. Through all of this, I would like to find an answer that says, I know that's difficult. But every time I make it, I think, ``Okay, this is the answer.'' Next time, I'll think, It's my own selfish pursuit, though. If you do your best, there are times when it resonates with other people. That's what's rewarding. I hope to create something that embodies my ideal someday. This shoot took place over a period of four months. There is something deeply moving about seeing the completion in front of my eyes. It suddenly started raining here. Mr. Hayase runs out and brings in the laundry. It was a momentary interruption. Tune it and try it out. What a beautiful sound. The sound seemed to be perfect as well. Finally, attach a label with the model name and serial number. This time, I took a closer look at guitar luthier Rin Hayase. In addition to seeing the process of making an acoustic guitar, I also had a lot of fun interacting with the families. I want to live a life where I can have a little more peace of mind. I guess I'm still a little nervous. When that happens, I can only do things for myself. I just depend on my wife. I'm always reflecting on my actions and thinking I need to do things properly. I think I'll try a little harder. So that everyone can live with a smile. I have a hope. And that is to live slowly with my family. Photography cooperation: Hayase Guitar Studio