If you don't make some sacrifices for what you want, Seven life lessons that I wish I'd known Let's get to it. And if you enjoy this video, and let me know Collapse When I look at what has helped me get to do today, has been having a strong bias I used to be someone thinking about my thinking not really going anywhere. What I came to understand, is that while enthusiasm is common, You don't get compensated for your ideas. You get compensated for your output. Here's what's important about collapsing Clarity can only come from taking action. Momentum can only come from taking action. Insights can only come from taking action. We never get given But when we take action, more of that map We get shown what the next step is, that we take today. The Law of Action states what you want, As the author, John Maxwell wrote: "Many people allow their lives They float along. They wait. They react. And by the time a large portion of their they wish and strategic." you must think in decades, plan in months It's about putting yourself out there because you never know will eventually blossom Lesson Two: Make sure you are climbing It's far better to be climbing up than to be climbing up fast Focus on direction over speed and Something I've noticed is that too Not because we are physically because firstly we are doing too little And secondly, This is why it is important for you and not a life for others. It is also why the longest from our heads to our hearts. Never an easy journey, but the most important and fulfilling I worked hard getting the degree, reading the books I did it to please others And as a result, but all I got was exhaustion, I felt unfulfilled Once however, Beautiful things started happening. I worked with dream coaching channels like Sky News traveled the world to speak on stages and landed a book deal with Penguin Random House, When you have clarity on what matters one of the greatest sources of energy As the Indian philosopher Patanjali you are inspired by some great purpose, your thoughts break that bonds, your mind your consciousness and you find yourself to be in a new, Dormant and you discover yourself imagined." Lesson They are the path. Or as Ryan Holiday would say,: "The obstacle is the way." your greatest personal growth Because the greatest opportunities often You must embrace them fully, for Failing my second year of university was one of the toughest moments but it taught me the importance especially because I couldn't The global financial crisis but gave me the opportunity to pivot my life journey towards the entrepreneurial path redirected me to opportunities before they occurred. Things won't always unfold and sometimes it ends up being the best when looking back. As Alex Elle beautifully noted: "I'm because without it my strength." Life is less and more about how we choose to respond Lesson four: Life begins for where you are today If you are relying on others you are giving up your power If they are able to help, great. But we shouldn't live our life depending It's easy to blame others when things It's harder to accept responsibility Daniel Priestley, in his interview of a CEO, calls this, "with I am going to do this with or without you. After all, you have to be able to sell you to you The only permission you need to live And here's a powerful reminder that I could have benefited from listening What makes you different is a superpower You were born with unique Discover what these are Once you take responsibility and where you want to be tomorrow, and you live each day less about outcomes Extraordinary results And this is because your life will never change I experienced during my time working and it wasn't until I stopped did I understand When I made my physical energy the rest of my life started transforming. When I got more sleep, sufficient rest, and moved my body on a regular basis, started to fall into place. When you have the right habits in place, you not only set yourself up but you stack the odds in your favor So the question here you are exactly where you are now, how would you feel?" Now you know you should do, Your biggest breakthroughs Take tiny acts of courage today, and you will begin to realize Lesson six: Hard choices, easy life. Easy choices, hard life. When you do what is hard today. Tomorrow will be easier When you do Tomorrow will be harder. This is one I made the easy choices junk food over learning of playing short term games over from others instead of finding peace Wisdom I came to consequences for the decisions and choices Too many of us prefer comfort today The fact is that while avoiding strategy for peace, it is also the best This ability to do hard that you can develop in yourself, Nothing meaningful in life is easy. We can feel jealous about other people's because we want the accolades and praise we're not doing the work to get there Life is a series of tradeoffs and choices. Question is, are you going to be making Because If you don't make some sacrifices becomes what you sacrifice. Lesson seven: Extraordinary results ordinary things This lesson is all about the power and understanding I shared a post on social media showing a it showed a picture of me of attendees at a time where I was and the dream of one day doing the work In the Now image, Convention Center professionals The difference between the two images I went from working a 9 to 5 job to becoming a coach I went from speaking in front of local audiences I went from seeing books to seeing my book in bookstores And the message I wanted to share with overnight success is not real. What looks like overnight success is a result of consistent action This is why you must be patient with the Bonus lesson. Be a learning machine. One of the greatest skills that we can is the ability to adapt And this skill is driven by our ability a white belt mentality, As the futurist, Alvin Toffler said, "The will not be those but those who cannot learn, unlearn is that learning It marks the beginning of your real is a student of life, the wisdom that you can't gain And so they constantly stretching their minds, taking on projects their curiosities and passions Many of us live and then die, having never really lived. Let's focus on living, not just existing. As Andy Dufresne said in the film or get busy dying." These are the life If you made it this far, Let me know which lesson you wish you had known earlier. I look forward to reading them because we all have stories In the meantime, thank you for watching