(Bell) (Bell) (Bell) Good morning, my dear friends. Welcome to the IP retreat. It is possible to organize our retreat I think so, because in a picnic You drive to the place of the picnic and you enjoy driving. Or you walk to the picnic place and you enjoy your walking. And if you want to camp you fix your tent with joy, and you don't think of it as a labor, as a work. You enjoy fixing your tent, And if you are to cook something, you enjoy cooking. You do everything in that spirit. You enjoy everything I will tell you a story. There is a teacher and his student. They were so busy, that they never had a chance How come that they are so busy? The teacher and the student, they live in a temple. And yet they are so busy. If you live in a temple and you are so busy, it's no worth to live in a temple. You can live outside. Because the people outside I don't know why live in a temple and they got so busy. In Plum Village, We have lazy days. Lazy days are for us to practice just being lazy. We try very hard Because many of us are used And that has become a habit. People feel that they would die if they don't have anything to do. They are always on the go. They are always running. They don't have a chance to stop. I think that lazy days in Plum Village are not so easy to practice if you are not used to the practice You are not supposed to do anything There is no sitting meditation, there is no walking meditation, there is no schedule Nothing. And yet there are many who like to do walking meditation in a lazy way. There are those who want There are some who like They are not forced to do anything. They just do it I want to go back that student and that teacher who had no time for a picnic. The student said: Teacher, Can you arrange for a picnic? He said: Yes, where we can go to a picnic. And yet they could not have one day One year, and two years, and three years and they never had a chance One day, they were walking together in a city and there was a funeral procession. The teacher asked the student: And the student said: They are having a picnic. The only picnic they had, when they die. A bomb may explode today. And we have our picnic. I have lived through a war, two wars in Vietnam. And I know what is the war. What is a war. You don't know whether you can be alive There is fear, there is anger, there is despair. If you don't know how to manage, you cannot survive. You are just waiting for your picnic. You are not ready for your picnic. That is why our practice is to have the picnic And don't have to wait. That is why we want very much for you as a picnic I think that it is possible because we have the experience of doing picnic. Picnics. A picnic can happen right now, We are sitting here. Are we there to do something? We have nothing to do. We just enjoy our sitting. With no worries. Because sitting is a pleasure. Sitting and listening to someone speaking You don't need to learn anything, you don't need You just sit there and enjoy breathing in and out and listening to someone It is not our intention You have got Our intention is to be peace. Right in the here and the now. To be peace in the here and the now. Not to talk about peace. This is possible. Because peace In your feelings. In your perceptions. In your consciousness. You have your body. Your body may not be in peace. We learn how to bring peace to our body right in the now. We know that our body suffers. There is tension, there is stress, there is pressure, there is pain within our body. We have worked our body too hard. Our body has been exposed We don't feel good There are many conflicts The way we handle our body has made our body suffer so much. There is no real peace in our body. What to do in order to This is what we try to do. We don't need a lot of time to do it. To allow your body to rest, to allow your body to have a chance that is something possible. And after one, two hours We are not We are bringing peace to it. And we have our feelings. We may feel sad, we may feel painful, we may feel excited, there are a lot of feelings A river of feelings. There are unpleasant feelings, There are exciting feelings and so on. And there is no peace in our feelings. We have to learn And this can be done now. You don't need a lot of theory. We can enjoy doing it, bringing peace Our time together is very precious. We don't talk about peace, we try to make peace a reality right here, right now, within our body, We have also our emotions. Like anger, like fear, like despair. We don't know how to handle. Every time anger comes up, every time fear overwhelms us, every time despair overwhelms us we suffer. in order to be free from them. Being here in Plum Village together with other friends who know how to handle we learn how to handle With 15 minutes we begin to know how to handle our despair, and how to handle our anger. This is very important. If you cannot handle you cannot talk about peace. If you don't know how you cannot talk about peace. Because to handle them well will bring peace, harmony, into your body, Then, we have our perceptions. Our perceptions and they bring forth We perceive things. But because we are not calm, we are not lucid. We are overwhelmed That is why we do not perceive We have wrong perceptions. A wrong perception And of what is the world. We have a wrong perception concerning them These wrong perceptions for all actions that will bring and fear and anger. That is why we should be able To see whether that perception or a right perception. Most of our sufferings That is why we should have the time to consider, to look deeply into the nature of our perceptions in order not to be caught Because perceptions emotions, afflictions, and so on. The fact is that in our daily life free of these feelings and perceptions We are rarely ourselves. We are victims of our feelings, of our perceptions, We are like a leaf The waves push us. We don't have our own sovereignty We allow ourselves pulled away by our feelings, and our mental formations, our wrong perceptions. That is why it is very important and master the situation and be the masters of ourselves. We do not live our own life. We allow our life to be lived We have been victims We can really be ourselves and become master of the situation. Therefore it is very important and take the situation in hand. We have to be of our emotions, of our perceptions and not to become - not to continue to be This is the basic practice of peace. If we have some peace in our body, in our feelings, we can help the other to have peace in his or her emotions, perceptions We have to begin with ourselves. And this is possible with a retreat, with the presence and who support us in the practice, so we can be an instrument of peace. You cannot become if you have no peace within yourself. To become an instrument of peace you become of the ultimate reality. You are acting in the name of God, in the name of the ultimate reality, And this is possible, We can do it. Sometimes we feel we have no more energy, The situation is so difficult. We feel that we cannot do anything. We are only a victim. We want to seek a place We want to take refuge. We want to take refuge in God, in the Buddha, in Allah. It is like a wave on the ocean. Imagine a wave on the surface of the ocean. Very tired I would like to seek refuge. There is a refuge for the wave. And that is water. If the wave recognizes then she seeks refuge in the water. And she no longer is afraid of But it is very important She does not have to You may like to seek refuge in God, in the Buddha, in Allah, This is something possible. I remember in the month of August this year, we had a retreat for - we had a retreat and other law enforcement people, like prison guards, and so on. The retreat took place in Green Lake, in the state of Wisconsin, You know that police officers in that state peace agents. Peace keepers. Police officers don't feel How could they keep peace, offer peace? That is why they needed a retreat in order for them to have a chance so that they can offer peace in their families and so on. On the third or fourth day like: I have arrived, I am home. Present moment, wonderful moment. And people liked to hang in their house to remember the practice One person came to me and asked: Thay, could you write for me the calligraphy Resting in God? Resting in God. You are a wave. You are so tired of going up, going down. You are afraid of You feel that you are a victim. You want to look for something solid, something safe, something long lasting. Imagine we are waves The most interesting thing is that you don't have to look for water if you are waves. Because you are water God is not something The ultimate, our refuge, is not something It is right inside of us. Resting in God means I take refuge in the ultimate. That ultimate you can call Buddhahood, or God, or Allah. But you need it. You need the ultimate. You are tired. You feel tired as a wave you hope that But in fact water is in you, is you. Resting in God you don't have to run. You have to go home to yourself. If the wave continues to run she will never see and meet water. The only way for the wave to meet the water is to go home to herself. (Bell) When the wave realizes that she is water, she has peace. She practices resting in God, Although she continues she is peaceful. This is something we can practice. God not as an objective entity, but God as the ground of your being. But you may like to ask the question What is God? Who is God? Who is Allah? Who is the Buddha? You say: in order to really trust Because we need That is why theologians to give us an idea We are very often Because we know the ultimate. And you cannot say anything That is very frustrating. You want to have a notion of God. You want to take refuge in God. But maybe you have been Many of us are caught in that, You think that but you are taking refuge only You think that but Allah is just That is why in Plum Village We want you to take refuge In your in-breath, In your steps. Much more concrete. Breathing in, You are entirely your in-breath, And together with your in-breath When you breath out, You become your out-breath, you become peace In Plum Village making a step with your left foot you take refuge in your step. And you can find, you can get in touch with the ultimate in your step. You just make a step. You take refuge entirely in the step. And the ultimate in that moment of making the step. But you have to know how to make a step. You have to really You have to bring 100% of your body, in order to take refuge in a step. Because in our daily life we have the habit of running. We walk like we run. We are (looking) for peace, for success, for love, for a God, Our steps are a means for us to run away from the present moment. But according life is available only God is available only Peace is available only That is why making a step like this is stopping the running. It is an act of stopping running. For those of us who are used to be always running, it is a revolution. To make a step and to stop all the running. You don't run with your feet, You fully take refuge in your step. You fully make peace with your step. You are not seeking peace, you are not seeking God You make a step and if you know how to make it peace and God of touching the earth with your feet. When I breathe in, when I breathe in, When I breathe out, I invest entirely myself while I'm breathing in. I don't run anymore. I know that if I encounter the ultimate, I encounter life. Because life is available only These are very simple things, but we do not have The past is already gone. The future is not yet there. There is only one moment That is the present moment. Life is available only Your in-breath brings you home Your step brings you home That is why it is so important and in your step. Because they are the only means to bring you home where you can touch life, Suppose you are taking a plane You think that and sit there for six hours Sitting on the plane You are not able to live the moments that is offered to you now. But it is possible for you in such a way that you You don't need to arrive to New York to be peaceful, to be happy. When you walk into the plane every step brings you happiness, To arrive means When you practice walking meditation You arrive at the destination of life. Because the present moment is a destination. Breathing in, I make a step and I tell myself: I have arrived. I have arrived. This is the practice of Plum Village: When you breathe in, and you say: I have arrived. When you make a step, you take refuge in your step This is not a statement. Not a statement to yourself, I have arrived means I have arrived in the present moment. Because only the present moment The past is no longer there, Only the present moment So when I breathe in and take refuge in my in-breath I touch life deeply. When I take a step and I take refuge entirely in my step I touch life deeply. And by doing that I stop running. Stopping running Because we have been running We believe that peace, We don't know that in the here and the now. Peace, happiness, stability. I have arrived means The address of life. Here, now. herenow.com (Bell) Life is available only God is available only That is why it is very important You have a wonderful means That is why we have to learn Because with one in-breath and stop all running. With a step you arrive in the here and the now and touch God, touch the ultimate, Restore peace in yourself. There is a seed of peace and joy And if you know in your step, you can touch and make them manifest So instead of taking refuge in a notion, God, Buddha, Allah, you want to take refuge God can be touched in your in-breath, can be touched in your step. And many of us have succeeded We enjoy living deeply by the practice touching joy and peace It sounds easy. Everyone can do it, but it takes some training. Because if you are used to run it has become a habit, Running to look for something. So the practice of stopping Stopping. You stop by means of your in-breath, You stop by means That is why is the practice of mindful breathing, If you master these practices, then you can practice mindful eating, mindful drinking, And you are always with God. You are always with the ultimate. You are always with life, you are always Don't do like the teacher Always running until they saw a funeral and realized that We should not do like them. We have to enjoy our picnic You have the instruments to enjoy To enjoy your in-breath, And if you think that it is you are wrong, that it is very difficult to make a step Because they are Because you can touch peace You can get in touch with peace You touch the seed of peace And you remove the tension in your body, in your feelings. You remove the conflict by breathing like that, by walking like that, The practice Mindfulness of breathing, mindfulness of eating, mindfulness of dish washing, always dwelling in the here and the now and not allow yourself by the future, by your worries by your projects about the future and your regrets about the past. We have to recover, to reclaim our freedom. Because we have lost our freedom. We are caught by our past. We are caught by our worries We don't have the capacity in order to touch life. That is why it is very important to learn the art of being peace With the presence this becomes very easy. On your left there is a friend who knows how to breathe in and out and touch the present moment. On your right there is another friend who knows how to make a step and dwell peacefully and happily Behind you there is a sister In front of you there is a brother You are surrounded by people who know the art Stopping the running that are in every one of us. And become an instrument of peace I have arrived. This is a practice. Not a statement, I have arrived. I have arrived And I am in a situation where I can touch life deeply The rain is a wonder, The trees are a wonder. The faces of children are wonders. There are so many There are so many wonders of life Your eyes are a wonder. You need to open them and then you can see Your heart is a wonder. If your heart stops functioning then nothing can continue. That is why when you go home to the present moment you touch the wonders of life and you just enjoy. You don't have to wait for tomorrow I have arrived. This is a practice. When you breathe in you say: I have arrived. Whether you have arrived or not you know. Whether you are still running you know. Even if you are sitting but you are still running. Running in your mind. So I have arrived is not a statement. You know whether If you feel you have arrived you must feel very happy. You must tell your friend: Dear friend, You tell Thay: This is good news. When you make a step I have arrived. It is wonderful to be arriving That is why while you walk you don't talk. If you are busy talking How can you arrive? That is why in Plum Village we have the habit of Because we enjoy every step we make. If you need to say something And you invest 100% One thing at a time. And after you have finished or after you have finished you resume walking If you know how to walk like that you are always in the Kingdom of God. You are always You are always like the wave is always It is wonderful. It is possible. I have arrived, When you breathe in, you say: I have arrived. When you breathe out, you say: I am home. Because my true home is here and now. Because only in the here and now you have your real refuge. The present moment is your true home. Because it has life in it. In the present moment with your ancestors, with God, with your children and grandchildren. They are already available That is your true home. And if you feel that you are home, your practice is successful. You feel that you are home. You don't need to run anymore. If you still feel that you need to run, You are not home yet. So if you really feel that you are You are home. It is not too difficult. if you really want it, you can be home Your home is not only your home is here. Your home is not only in Holland, in England, in America. Your home is here. Here does not mean France. Or Plum Village. Here means more than that. Here means life. All the wonders of life are available You are home to that kingdom of wonders. The Kingdom of God, I have arrived. I am home. It is wonderful. It brings you a lot of joy, So I wish that all my friends here while they are here with us in the IP retreat. And that they can continue like that Imagine the police officers. They practiced arriving breathing and smiling. This is the first time policewomen practicing walking I have arrived, I am home. And they had real peace in them. Without peace they have a lot of fear, they have a lot of anger They cannot serve people. They can kill people by mistake. Just by their fear, That is why policemen, policewomen In the month of September for members of the Congress It is wonderful to see I have arrived, I am home, because they use to run all day. You know that they have So their life is just a continued struggle I told them: Ladies and gentlemen, you can practice Because they may before the retreat. They only think of the work they do. And I suggested that and enjoy every step they make. We have our own territory of peace. And it is inside. Our territory is made of five elements. Body, is part of our territory. We have to bring peace in it. We have to remove the conflicts, we have to remove We have our feelings, our emotions. There are a lot of storms, a lot of conflicts, in the realm of our emotions. That is why we have to learn to the territory of our emotions, We have the territory of perceptions. When I look at the marker Whether my perceptions correspond that is the question. Because we live We believe that we are They are only making us suffer. They don't suffer at all. That is a kind of wrong perception. If you have the time and have peace in yourself you see that the other group of people they also suffer greatly And they need to be helped That is why peace should not be possible elements of wrong perceptions in us. Our leadership should be able to practice in order to be free When our perceptions are born from our anger, our fear, they cannot be called Because our wrong perceptions give rise to a lot of fear, of anger, of despair, which lead us to acts of violence, punishment, And that is why so that we can bring peace removing the wrong elements We have the realm Like fear, like anger, like discrimination. Like hope, like joy, There are about And we have to go home to them look at them and handle them properly in order for peace in our mental formations. Then, there is to be explored. We have to go home Because our consciousness From the ground of consciousness our perceptions Consciousness is not only the spirit, it is the body. Because not only our bodies but our consciousness contains our body. I have arrived, I am home. In the here In the now. When you practice walking you may begin by: I have arrived, I am home. I have arrived, you take refuge deeply in your steps. I am home. Home is not an abstract idea. It is not an imagination. Home is your step. Home is your in-breath. They are part When you are able to you are in touch with Walking in the Kingdom of God is something you can do It is not a hope. There is not a day walking in the Kingdom of God. Why should I deprive myself Because it is very healing, My friends, who sit here, they can do that also If you only want a diploma, a high salary, it may take time. But if you want to be and to enjoy walking you may have it now if you are able to go home to the present moment. You are offered means Your in-breath which is always available. Your steps. Always available! You practice, you enjoy arriving. You enjoy being home. You know that your home In the here, in the now. In the here, in the now. It seems that the here But it is not. If you are really in the here, you are in the now at the same time. If you are in the now you are in the here also. So here and now they are not two things. My left foot and my right foot are doing Going to the same place. Here and now. In the here and the now. So these four lines helping you to be established If you walk with a friend, 2 friends or 3 friends, your collective energy will be stronger. You support each other in touching life I have arrived, I am home. I just enjoy walking I take refuge in the ultimate like the wave This is possible I am solid. What does it mean to be solid? To be solid means from the present moment. Because there is a tendency in you to go back to the past. You regret or you feel guilty. There are energies that And you get lost in the past with your sorrows, You are not solid. Because you are a victim of the past. Many of us are victims of the past. We are not capable because the past has become a ghost. A phantom. It always pulls us back to itself. There are those of us who are not capable of enjoying life You are not free. There are those of us who are caught by our worries, fear, We are always fearful about the future. What will happen to me You are victim of your uncertainty. Of your worries about the future. What will become of me These kind of worries and fears do not allow you to be really established in order to touch life. And you are not solid. Because you are being by the future, by your craving, by your hope, You are not solid. But when you say: I am home, you cannot get me. I am in the here, I am in the now, I am master of myself. And then you become solid. I am solid it is not wishful thinking. Because if you are able then you become solid naturally. This is a recognition that you are here and you are now, you are home. This is no longer a hope. It is not an auto-suggestion. This is a reality and you become If you spend three minutes walking and arrive and feel at home solidity has become a reality. Solidity becomes a fact. Whether you are solid or not, you know. When you are solid, when you are fully established the past cannot get you, You are free. That is why I am free from what? I am free from the past, from my worries, from my fear. That is why solidity and freedom they are not two things. When you are solid, you are free. When you are free, you are solid. It is like the here and the now. Solidity and freedom of your peace and happiness. One cannot be peaceful, without some amount Every step like this helps you to cultivate more solidity Be yourself. Be free. Be established in the here and the now. Touch life deeply, get the peace In the ultimate I dwell. The wave is resting in the water. You are resting in the ultimate, you are resting in Allah, You are resting in your Buddhahood. This is the recognition You are touching the ultimate It is not a problem of time. The ultimate is available Water is available to the wave The ultimate is your foundation. By walking, by breathing like that, you are always in touch with God. God not as a notion, not as an idea but a reality. You can touch God by touching a flower. You can touch God You can touch God Outside of these things If you remove all the waves And that is why to touch the wonders of life means to touch the ultimate. We have made music to these lines so that those of us who are new to the practice can memorize and enjoy the breathing Let's sing together. (Singing) # I have arrived # # I am home # # in the here # # and in the now. # # I have arrived # # I am home # # in the here # # and in the now. # # I am solid, # # I am free. # # I am solid, # # I am free. # # In the ultimate I dwell. # # In the ultimate I dwell. # # I have arrived, # # I am home # # In the here # # and in the now. # # I have arrived, # # I am home, # # In the here # # and in the now. # # I am solid, # # I am free. # # I am solid, # # I am free. # # In the ultimate I dwell. # # In the ultimate I dwell. # (Bell) We don't have to memorize all the eight lines. Although it is very easy to memorize. If you don't remember everything that is okay. If you just remember I have arrived, I am home, that is good enough for our practice. During sitting or walking you just use I have arrived That is good enough. Largely sufficient. When you make yourself some tea, enjoy the present moment. You pick up your glass mindfully. You smile to it. If you are full of ideas of projects, of thinking, you cannot do that. Non thinking is what makes it possible You don't think of anything. You just become aware in order to make some tea. You put a tea bag in it and you take refuge entirely in the act that you are Don't think of the past, Enjoy picking up your glass. Enjoy the tea bag, put here, You are in touch Stay with it! Don't go astray! When you pick up your glass, with 100% of your body It is what I learned from my teacher when I was a 16 years old novice. He told me how to light He said: My child, breathe in and take There is the stick of incense. Then, light it. And you put your left hand holding the stick of incense It means that you put into the act of lighting When you put it on the incense burner you also do the same. You invest 100% of your body into putting the stick of incense And you are mindful. You are concentrated of lighting and offering This is the same to have some tea. Having some tea Bring your body and mind and pick up the glass like this not allowing any thinking to intervene. Picking up my glass is wonderful. You are in touch with the glass. Really in touch with the glass. You are taking refuge Then, when you take a tea bag, whether it is herbal tea you smile to it and you put it into it. And you press and you have And during that time you stay Don't think about the past, Can you do it? Don't tell me that you cannot do it. You can do a lot of things This is something provided that you really want to do it. And you do it with the energy I am not in a hurry to go there so I enjoy every step. (Laughs) Mindfulness. Mindfulness is a kind of energy that belongs to the realm It is a good mental formation, When you breathe in if you know that if you take refuge entirely that is called Your in-breath becomes When you breathe in, You are just with your in-breath. 100%. That is called When you walk, if you know fully aware of every step, And when you drink your tea, if you stay with your tea 100% and not allow you to be or by the future, you are practicing mindfulness of tea drinking. Mindfulness is the energy what is happening It is the energy of mindfulness the present moment as your home. As your true home. It is mindfulness that helps you to know The sunshine is there. Breathing in, I know Breathing out, I know Mindfulness is the energy that helps us to be aware of what is there, Mindfulness of breathing, mindfulness of walking, mindfulness of drinking. And you drink your tea that peace and joy become possible Can you do it? Because in one day to make tea for ourselves. Whether you are in Upper Hamlet, hot water is there, and also cups are there. You have many opportunities and to enjoy your cup of tea. But during the time when until the time you finish your tea peace and joy should be possible. Don't seek peace and joy outside of the time of tea drinking. There is a factory - There is - In France there is a kind of yogurt I don't know whether it is but they advertise like this: (French) Mangez-la tout doucement (Laughs) Eat it slowly, Because if you are in a hurry it takes no time to finish the yogurt. Just a few seconds But if you know eat slowly every spoonful Take time to enjoy your tea. Ask yourself whether you are being joyful during the time of tea drinking. Challenge yourself. Today you have chances Bring your mindfulness in in order to be entirely with your tea. From the moment you begin until you finish the tea. Allow yourself to have And drink your tea in such a way Relaxation is possible. Ban the worries, ban the despair. Don't allow them You have a chance, you have an opportunity Why spoil it with your projects, If you succeed that is a big victory for peace. For yourself, for us, Peace and joy When you are mindful - From there to here I enjoy my steps. And when I arrive here, So you can enjoy every moment When you are mindful, you are concentrated. And when you are concentrated You sink deeply into what is there. When you contemplate a flower, if you have mindfulness and concentration you get in touch which is a wonder of life. When you hold your tea and enjoy it, if you have enough you get in touch deeply with your tea and enjoy the peace, that is offered to you Drink your tea in such a way Freedom from what? Freedom from your worries, Freedom is our practice. If you have some freedom, brought to you by peace is possible, joy is possible The same thing you can do during your breakfast. You have 20 minutes, half an hour to enjoy your breakfast. Although your breakfast is not fancy, but the happiness brought to you by can be very great. If you know how to sit there And then the 20, 30 minutes is a time for you Why do you have to worry while having your breakfast? You are given a time In fact, you are allowed to have your breakfast. Plenty of time. Why do you have to hurry Many of us do not eat our breakfast before going to work. Because we allow our mind by our worries concerning We are not with the breakfast. We do not take refuge in our breakfast. So stay with your breakfast When you stay with your tea, When you stay with your breakfast So enjoy the whole time. And if you - You can be a free person. You sit with freedom at your table and then, during the time for breakfast you will have the time to live, Don't seek peace outside of your breakfast. If you (don't) fail to have freedom you will have peace and freedom So don't fail in your breakfast. When you have your lunch, Get in touch with the food, which is a wonder of life. The piece of carrot, the piece the piece of bread in your hand The cosmos has come together Stay with the piece of bread! Take refuge in the piece of bread! If you eat your piece of bread you get in touch with Allah, you get in touch with the Buddha. Why do you have to run in order to find the Buddha, to find God, to find Allah? It is in your bread. Take refuge in your bread So having breakfast, having lunch is a deep practice of peace. Don't seek peace, outside of your lunch, When you have a chance to go - In the morning, when you hear enjoy walking from your room Every step you make can bring joy and peace God is not only God is in every step. So take refuge in every step. The meditation hall in It is outside And in the rest room. You may think that the rest room is not as holy But that is not true. In the spirit of the Zen, the rest room is as holy as the meditation hall That is why, from time to time we arrange flowers, we have to show that this is a practice. A place to practice. Enjoy the water, which is a wonder of life that is running That is God! That is happiness. Are you capable of enjoying the feeling of the water If you are in the here and the now, the act of exposing your fingers It is very nourishing, very healing. Why do you have to hurry? Enjoy every second, every minute Smile to yourself. Peace is available Brush your teeth that peace and joy be possible. Challenge yourself. While you are brushing your teeth ask yourself whether you are Give yourself enough time Freedom and peace should be obtained during the time you brush your teeth. When you - When you urinate, enjoy it! Because it is highly enjoyable Imagine you are in an airplane. (Laughs) So many people occupy it. We have to wait sometimes in order for your turn to - And then, when the rest room is free you are so happy! You open the door and you go in. And you close the door. Why don't you enjoy it? Why do you try to hurry Enjoy the time being in the rest room. In Plum Village, we have areas where there are many trees. You can use them also It is very pleasant, more pleasant For me, it is highly enjoyable. When you defecate it is the same! It is wonderful! You release, you feel light, It is very pleasant. The French call the rest room (French) cabinet d'aisance. Aisance: ease. So peace and joy should be It is our picnic together. And we should be able You try, please. We are doing that together. When we walk together as a group we enjoy the collective energy If you get lost in your thinking, if you get carried away by your projects, the solid walking the solid walking will bring you home and you resume Because every step like that Don't think of this The practice should be joyful. Should be pleasant. If you suffer during walking you are not doing it right. It is a picnic. You should be able From time to time The bell is the voice of God, of the Buddha, of Allah in ourselves calling us to our true home, to the here and the now. Every time the telephone rings that is also the voice of God Whether you are helping in the kitchen or in the vegetable garden, you enjoy every minute of cooking, of taking care of the garden. You are always in the Kingdom of God. Don't get out. You have the passport to go That is mindfulness and concentration. Keeping that passport with you you stay in the Kingdom By the way, many friends of us from the Middle East. Specially the Palestinians. A number of them And a number will arrive Because they cannot go They had to go to Jordan We have tried our best with the French embassy so that they can get the visas. But they still have to take off. We have the intention to invite them to stay so that they can listen that they miss today and tomorrow. Our brothers and sisters to continue the practice a few more days I think this is good enough Enjoy your being in Plum Village. Enjoy your retreat. (Bell) (Bell) (Bell) Subtitles by the Amara.org community