850 guests took their places in the main courtyard, including 110 crowned heads and heads of state. He had announced his engagement a year earlier and now his wedding day had arrived. The 14th sovereign prince of Monaco moved forward with a determined step towards the one he had chosen and which his father was now leading towards the heart of the open-air cathedral. Albert II greeted his two sisters, Caroline and Stephanie, who were standing in the front row. The entire principality then breathed a sigh of relief. Albert Married? This meant that one day there would be an heir, a future prince, and that the legend of Monaco could continue with him. "The legend of Monaco" each of us, whether or not we are interested in the lives of crowned heads, knows that this legend began with Grace Kelly. I remember her wedding like it was yesterday. At home, there was no television yet and I accompanied my mother to a neighbor's house to watch the ceremony. Opening her door to us, she repeated to us what she had heard on the radio and which was then on everyone's lips. Grace Kelly's marriage to Prince Rainier will be the wedding of the century. I was eight years old and I had just discovered the future princess in a film taking place in Monaco. Alongside Marilyn Monroe, Lauren Bacall and Ava Gardner, it was explained to me that the heroine of La Main au Collet was now part of the Olympus of American cinema. However, at barely 27 years old, she was going to abandon Hollywood and what promised to be a dazzling career for an unknown prince and an improbable kingdom. Monaco is in fact a postage stamp, the smallest state in the world after the Vatican. Two square kilometers and its inhabitants are only a few thousand. Nothing to do with the English monarchy for example, member of the Permanent Council of the United Nations, England is one of the main world powers and not so long ago, the British Empire radiated from one end to the other. other of the earth. So, how did the prince of a small resort for the happy few lure Grace Kelly into his net? How, once married, had they both managed to create one of the most astonishing modern myths? And how on earth could this myth have lasted until today, even though they are no longer there to embody it? Moving to the other side of the scene, this is what the psychoanalyst in me wanted, starting at the beginning, 6,500 kilometers from Monaco, a good twenty years before the wedding of the century. Philadelphia, northeastern United States between New York and Washington, it is the main city in the state of Pennsylvania. At the end of the 17th century, its founder declared that it would be the city of love and tolerance. This is where the future Princess Grace came into the world on November 12, 1929 and unfortunately for her, love and tolerance were not the first two fairies that her father, John Kelly, summoned at her baptism. John Kelly, the father of grace, is him. Youngest child of a family of Irish origin. He had married Margaret, Grace's mother, who belonged to a family of German aristocrats. A former swimming champion, she had, like John, a taste for discipline, authority, and achievement too, because Grace's parents both shared a real cult of the body and the same particularly rigid conceptions on education of children. The Kelly family was wealthy and Grace was raised in this magnificent colonial house with nearly 20 rooms. John had in fact founded a masonry business and by stacking bricks, he ended up becoming a millionaire, which gave him all the time he needed to devote himself to his only passion, his body. This monomaniacal father is the dominant figure of the childhood of grace, and the way of being of the future princess was incontestably linked to the obsession of her father. 1m90, 90 kilos, Grace Kelly's father, constantly wanted to improve his performance and it was on the water that he decided to find glory. Unfortunately, in 1920, he was refused by England the right to participate in the prestigious Henley Royal Regatta, because the regulations prohibited manual workers and therefore the former mason that he was from competing. The humiliation was terrible and even though John went on to win a gold medal in rowing at the Olympic Games three times , which made him one of the best-known and most admired athletes of his generation, he considered that the The affront he had suffered would not be erased until one of his children had won at Anglet. One of his children, but which one? Certainly not Grace in any case because even though she did everything she could to please this tyrannical father, including Rowing, she was a girl and a fragile girl. Even if she had rowed until the end of time, she would not have been able to achieve the goal that her father had set for himself. And Grace saw her brother as her, the only boy in the family invested with the mission with which she could not be responsible to avenge her father and ease his pain. Incredible destiny that the destiny of the son of the ogre who achieved the feat that was expected of him to leave for England came at the head of the royal regattas of Henley and prove to the whole world that one could not despise a Kelly with impunity. The victor's return was triumphant and his father mobilized the entire city of Philadelphia to cheer him. His feat accomplished Grace's brother. Satisfied with his performance and the athletic body his father had built for him, he spent a large part of his time parading, partying and, distancing himself from his father's model, found love in the arms of his father. a young and charming transsexual. He could now rest on his laurels. But no grace, precisely, since she had been incapable of satisfying the first significant man in her life. So, even if she didn't let anything show in public, as soon as the camera was turned off and her parents turned their backs on her, she would move away from the surface of the water or the sports fields and lock herself in her room. like in a shelter. At ten or twelve years old, what little girl and Grace Kelly? She's completely discreet, she doesn't talk much, she doesn't talk much and deep down, it's not surprising that this tribe of killers, because I consider the Kellys a bit like killers. Very, very funny. Very very efficient. But finally with something quite restrictive for fragile children. Well, they describe her as discreet, self-effacing. And in my opinion, for them, that means tasteless. Would you go so far as to say she had an unhappy childhood? Yes, I think she is not fulfilled. I think it's the little one who doesn't get noticed who is a little bullied by the father. You know, there are rigid characters who can be extremely restrictive. And I think the father was a tenor and he had no tolerance for De Grace's character at all. If we want to understand what would later lead John Kelly's daughter to become Grace of Monaco. We must first take seriously this painful quest that she led throughout her childhood to find who to identify with. Oh, no one was mad at him like Snow White. No one mistreated her like Cinderella, but no one gave her a place and a role to play either. Certainly, in her seaside productions, her mother dressed everyone the same way to make people believe that everyone was equal to the other. With a few years more or less. But when she found herself thus placed in a row, Grace was not fooled by this maternal lure. As she confesses later. She felt crushed by her siblings, jealous of her two sisters and in particular of Peggy, her eldest, so sassy, so funny, so at ease in all circumstances. Suddenly, in this family constantly exhibited, as if radiant, she took on the role of symptom. Grace caught cold at the slightest draft and increased the number of sore throats, asthma attacks and ear infections. Grace's body, which was going to become, at the end of adolescence, one of the most admired in the world, entered into resistance and allowed the future star not to be crushed by the mill of normality because that was the announced destiny of a daughter, Kelly. Be like those women who dress up in their Sunday best on special days, but remain devoted to household chores the rest of the time, leaving the men to take care of serious matters and being satisfied to be carried around on their arms like trophies . Race didn't want to be normal. And while she was still a student at Raven Hill Academy, the Catholic school for good families in Philadelphia, where the driver took her every day, she had the intuition, when she went on stage for the first time, that the theater would be his escape route. A few years later, the one who sometimes clowned with her sisters in improvised skits, announced to her parents that she wanted to become an actress for real. And by telling them this bad news, it's a bit as if she definitively gave up trying to satisfy them. I think they were incomparable. Often, narcissistic parents only see their offspring as a narcissistic extension of themselves. There you go, so it absolutely had to go straight. Grace Kelly, she wasn't going straight, she had. There was something wrong with her. First, she would have had to go to university and that was when she failed at every university. This is how she found herself an actress. Basically, there is only one academy left, the Academy of Art School, which is willing to take it at the last moment, when the school year begins in September. And she integrates this academy by piston. Why By piston? Because she has a playwright uncle almost as famous as Tennessee Williams in the 1920s. Grace Kelly was not 20 years old. She had become as beautiful as day and had just found a way to escape her golden prison. Golden Prison Reigned he too could have called his kingdom that when he contemplated it from the top of his terrace, because nothing was happening there. Desperately nothing. As if his country was condemned to remain as he himself had known it when he came into the world in 1923. Car races, swimming and splashing water, sunny walks and above all, above all, a tax haven and gambling of which a private company, the SBM, the Societe des Bains de Mer, a real State within a State, had a monopoly. A song proclaimed the joy of living in Monaco. Have fun, have fun. Of life ! The product is so brief. Have fun like crazy. Life is so short after all. Have fun ! Get lost! Life will pass like a dream. Make the 100 moves spent, every. Giving life the right way solves. The future prince is him. This little boy in uniform who looks so clumsy next to his sister Antoinette whom he loved so much. I was immediately struck by this coincidence which explains the immediate empathy that Grace feels for each other and reigns exactly as his future wife Regnier suffered throughout her childhood from insignificant beings, unloved, despised, raised by nannies and subject to the authority of his grandfather Louis II, the reigning sovereign. A selfish and reactionary man, he never felt that his parents expected anything from him. The Little Prince's mother, Charlotte, was completely absent and left her son to be vaguely educated by his grandfather. As for Count de Polignac, Rainier's father, who had married Charlotte in 1920, he was hardly present anymore. His parents barely knew each other, had never loved each other and their marriage had been a pure formality. Neither my sister nor I knew maternal love, said Rainier who, after his parents' quick divorce, saw his father banned from staying in Monaco and his mother rejoicing in nature, leading her life far from him. to ultimately become a social worker in prisons where reign was astonished to discover her. In love with Rene, the ace gangster and former member of the Tractions Avant gang. Educated in boarding schools with a stifling atmosphere where he was punished with sticks and cold showers. Reign became a shy and awkward young prince whose future seemed as bleak as that of Europe when war broke out. In a few weeks, German troops crushed Holland, Belgium and finally France. Italian troops attack several towns on the Cote d'Azur and take up positions at the gates of Monaco. Mussolini briefly imagined annexing the Rock, but his German allies dissuaded him. A military governor was soon appointed there and very quickly, the Gestapo arrived in Monaco without hesitation. Louis II, a convinced Petainist, sold his soul to the devil. The rock becomes the meeting place for fascists and traffickers of all kinds. The Nazis considered Monaco a friendly country and, contributing to the creation of Radio Monte-Carlo, made it a center of their propaganda. And while German soldiers enjoyed local tranquility, the Monegasque authorities allowed the SS to deport Jews. In 1944, a few months after seeing his mother renounce the throne for her benefit, Regner enlisted in the French army as a simple second class and left to pursue the Wehrmacht, we must understand what the situation is. In 1944 reigned 21 years. He is a young man and he is a young man who, unlike some of his contemporaries, has not committed himself to anything. He is not resistant, he is not Gaullist, he is not communist, he is nothing at all. He is what we call in Italy a guest, he parties. And this man who is celebrating suddenly finds himself invested with a particular responsibility which is that the collaborationist principality, very collaborationist, is the only country occupied by the Germans whose, for example, the occupation costs have been reimbursed by Berlin. Nothing is there so we have to commit ourselves to, how should I say, save the monarchy? But instead of just being a run-of-the-mill second class who was actually caught up in the circumstances, is actually going to fight a real war. And then he does something absolutely striking which is an important political act for a 21-year-old young man. He denounces publicly through leaflets and posters. Collaboration making itself reign has won the first bet of its life. Image of Monaco liberated without his bold action, the prince would never have been able to marry. Twelve years later Grace Kelly, and the rock would never have become legendary. First, the dim-witted teenager had to step aside and leave the field open to a hero. To be someone else. This is exactly what Grace Kelly wanted too. And with this painful feeling of never having found a place in his own family. This was the second point in common that she unknowingly shared with Rainier. As soon as she arrives in New York, a real transformation occurs within her. We had known her to be secret. She becomes approachable, outgoing, seductive. She has fun, she pleases. It is nicknamed the Amazon. And everyone notices her. The men, of course, whose effect she had on them she had seen in Philadelphia, but also the advertisers who offered her her first contracts ; she became a model, visited the agencies and thus made herself known on the one hand. and on the other side of the Atlantic. She is a fashion designer from New York whose latest models of evening dresses are presented by a starlet who bears the amiable first name. But undoubtedly this presentation is only intended to highlight the smile and the beauty of grace which are, it must be admitted, inimitable. She succeeds in playing in the theater. Then in television series where she played a series of roles until the cinema began to take an interest in her. Gary Cooper spotted her one day in a studio and fell under her spell. He immediately has her join him on the train which will whistle three times. The film was hailed by critics as a masterpiece. It's the beginning of fame, the realization of her wildest dreams of becoming an actress and famous. A year later, Grace Kelly starred in My Gumbo alongside Clark Gable and Ava Gardner, earning her an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actress. And finally comes the historic meeting with Alfred Hitchcock. Grace then made three films which would become legendary. The crime was almost perfect. Rear window and hand on the collar, Hitchcock made the one who became his favorite actress one. And nothing, and especially no man, seems to resist her. Thanks to more lovers in a month than I have in a year, Zaza Gabor irony. And in fact, Grace Kelly is credited with connections throughout Hollywood. Gary Cooper or Clark Gable, of course, but also James Stewart, William Holden, Bing Crosby or Ray Milan. Undeniable in any case. And the true passion she experienced with Oleg Cassini, who would become Jacqueline Kennedy's official couturier and whom she would perhaps have married without the fierce opposition of her parents. In any case, the rise of the sickly and secretive little girl from Philadelphia has come to an end and the Oscar for best actress via George Stone's country girl crowned. And yet it was there, at the very heart of this world of cinema from which she had expected salvation, that Grace Kelly experienced a feeling of failure. This is what Freud called destiny neurosis. When all of life seems inevitably marked by the repetition of the same scenario. Unhappy Grace can't bear to be forced to do anything without ever being asked for her opinion on the roles imposed on her. What was the point of having left your family to end up in this new cage, mistreated by producers even more tyrannical than your father? It's hard to believe that in the 1950s, Hollywood was a prison. There isn't an actress who, in her memoir, doesn't talk about that. I mean, Hollywood was a series of constraints, obligations and either you were fired or you left. Grace Kelly, even with an Oscar, couldn't choose her films, no. No, I think Grace Kelly couldn't choose her films the same way Marylin couldn't choose her films. It is probably this constraint, this constraint imposed by the studio of film partners from other studios to which you are attributed, which means that at one moment, she saw in the palace not only love, but a way of Get out of Hollywood where she could perhaps have nothing left to gain. Before the Palace of Monaco opens its doors to him, Quentin du Var is in any case one film too many. Grace discovers when reading the script that her role is inconsistent, that she is only asked to be beautiful and to keep quiet. She refuses and stands up to the MGM producer, a madman who threatens to never make her film again. The year is 1955, Grace is not yet 26 and she finds herself on the verge of a breakup. Hollywood had saved him from Philadelphia. Who could now save her from Hollywood. The entire Monegasque population came to the Grimaldi rock to attend the funeral of its sovereign, Prince Louis II. His grandson, Prince Rainier III, will like him maintain the traditions to which the entire principality is attached. 1949, at age 26, the same age when Grace was figuring out how to escape Hollywood's reign, Troy became Europe's youngest reigning ruler. Although prestigious titles had accumulated on his head , Duke of Valentinois, Marquis of Baux, Count of Clarte, Baron du Buis, Marquis of Chilly, Lord of Saint-Remy, Lord of Matignon, Prince of the Pig Castle, Renier was first and foremost the lord of a small seaside resort on the French Riviera called Monaco. And contrary to the image we have of him today, he was also unpopular among his own fellow citizens. When he became prince in 1949, Rainier was nothing and the principality was nothing, absolutely nothing. It is a weak, poor state, without any particular appeal, which is contested, including in games and luxury hotels, by the rest of the Cote d'Azur. It's a state in the making, we'll say. Constitutionally, until 1910. The prince has all the powers. That is to say that until 1910, the prince could get out of his car, shoot down a Monegasque, get into his car and leave without problem. After 1910, he granted a constitution, but it is not a real constitution. In 1930, France became master of the Principality. So the prince, for once, does not even have the minimum power that he could have reigned. And the product of that, he wants to have power. He formally has it, since he can do what he wants, but he doesn't have it. Because it is France that decides and it does not have it because the Monegasques contest it. Suddenly, the young prince begins to dream of another destiny: becoming a true sovereign, modernizing his kingdom, replenishing his coffers. He becomes agitated, increases the number of official visits, tries to let France know that with him, nothing will be the same. We receive him politely, we treat him with respect, but we make him understand that neither he nor Monaco are any match. Fortunately, reigning is happier in his private life. He loves and is loved like Grace Kelly whom he does not yet know. Gisele Pascal is an actress. She has played in the theater and toured with Marc Allegret and Marcel L'Herbier. She is the same age as the prince she knew while he was still a student. They have been in love for years. Their affair is known to everyone and as we often see them together and they seem relaxed, complicit, happy. Marriage rumors are rife. So, what happened? Well, a new action, supported by his personal confessor, Father Toque, who had several times questioned Gisele's too modest origins, Pascal Renier, decides purely and simply to sacrifice his love on the altar of fame, as if he suddenly understood that the second half of the century would not only be media, but people, and that he must therefore be akin to a woman capable of transcending by her sole presence and Monaco and her own reign. The crazy Father was quick to take matters into his own hands and the prince's breakup with Giselle Pascal was made public. The opening of the eighth Cannes Film Festival would provide Regnier with the opportunity that awaited him. La Croisette was full of stars in broad daylight for the opening of the eighth Cannes Film Festival. From the first day, the journalists focused their lenses on the anatomy of Sophia Loren who was given as the rival of Gina Lolo Brigitte. Here are other faces. Brigitte Bardot, the star of Tout-Paris. And then Jean-Pierre Aumont, a great cast. Jean-Pierre Aumont, Grace Kelly had an affair with him. But in the spring of 1955, Grace, whom the festival organizers had wanted at all costs to invite, had no ties and none of the other men who had been her lovers had been able to hold her back. Also, when she was asked to meet Prince Rainier in his palace for a photo report to be published by Paris-Match, she responded yes with displayed detachment, but not without curiosity. A valet announced to Grace that the prince had just arrived and Grace asked How should I address him? Does he speak English ? I don't even know how old he is. She curtsied as she had been taught, and the prince asked her if she would like to see his palace. Less than a year later, this palace would become that of grace, because it was following this unique meeting, which lasted only 45 minutes, that they decided to get married without even seeing each other again, except for only a second time. But Grace, whose childhood and adolescence had been a mirror image of Rainier's. Had understood immediately that they both shared the same compelling desire for metamorphosis and that he needed to be linked to each other to achieve it. When the Cannes Film Festival ended, Grace returned to the United States and, temporarily reconciling with MGM, shot a new film, a twist of fate, since she played the role of a princess. Reigning Grace were written regularly. Then the prince, who did not know the United States, officially announced that he would go there. Without specifying, however, the real purpose of his trip. This moment is moving for me. I begin my first visit to the United States and I get to know the oldest. Metropolis of the world. Father Toque had carefully planned the rest of the events and after a few formal visits from pure white blood, on Christmas Day 1955, the prince arrived to dine with the Kellys whom he had invited. He had not seen Grasse since Cannes, but it was as sublime as he had seen it. And a few days later, immediately making the front page of all the newspapers, they announced their engagement together. John and Margaret Kelly, who until then confused Monaco with Morocco. Morocco was at the height of perplexity. By agreeing to marry me, Grace declared. A little later, I of course entered a new, totally unknown world and I must say that it scared me a little. But I was determined to change my life and so was the prince. Before heading to Monaco for her wedding, Grace Kelly was going to shoot one last film, High Society, in which she will wear the engagement ring that Rainier had given her. However, nothing was the same and the MGM producers understood that she had definitely escaped them. A few weeks later, Grace left the family home for the second time. On the quayside of the port where the Constitution, the boat which was to take her to Monaco, was waiting for her. The crowd was so dense, there were so many journalists that an incident, an altercation between photographers broke out like a bad omen, bad parking, yes, but did his face filmed in close-up give a glimpse of his anguish. Grace overcame her fear and managed to say a few words about her great, very great happiness. Shortly before 12 p.m., with a final farewell from the foghorn. The constitucion left the port and sailed down Hudson, the die was cast. Grace had been a star. She didn't yet know that as soon as she arrived on the rock, she was going to become a subject for the media. While the ship sails towards Europe, in Monaco, people are busy. The prince took the surprising decision to cede exclusive rights to his wedding to MGM and Hollywood cameras are filming the preparations. It was probably a deal that was made with the studio to release her from her contract and it could not actually prevent one of their actresses from getting married to a prince in Monaco. But everyone tried to win in this. And so this is a film that was the balance sheet of his contract with the studio. Everything from now on will unfold like a highly staged film. Great staging which will begin with the arrival of the Constitucion after seven days of crossing, when the liner drops anchor in the Bay of Hercules, off the coast of Monaco, on April 12, 1956. On board his yacht, Rainier waits . Graces spread across a multitude of small boats, photographers and journalists watch for Grace's arrival as if they were going to witness live one of the most famous scenes in Greek mythology, the birth of Aphrodite emerging from the waves. The Monaco press service reports that there are 1,600 of them and that this figure was not reached throughout the theater of operations of the Second World War. Everyone is delighted to immortalize an event much more original than the coronation of Queen Elizabeth III years earlier. And he savors the composition of this new cocktail, barely tasted and already legendary. A star, a prince, the United States. Old Europe, the sun, the money, the love. They just don't know that one ingredient is missing for the myth to be almost perfect. The drama, but it will come. The festivities would last eight days with official receptions, welcoming of delegations, speeches, thanks, celebrations of all kinds. Even before being married, Grace discovered the constraints of protocol which now wanted to control her every gesture. Caroline, Grace's daughter, will say that her mother always told her that her eight days had been terrible. Thursday April 19, religious wedding ceremonies will be seen from one end of the planet to the other. Accompanied by her father, Grace and followed by her best friends and her sisters whom she chose as maid of honor. 25 meters of taffeta, 100 meters of tulle, 1000 inlaid pearls. The bride's dress was offered by her studio, MGM, as is Hollywood tradition. Grace is livid, emotion paralyzes her. We know that nothing was spontaneous, that each moment had been calculated down to the millimeter. So what moves us about Grace Kelly? Her blonde hair pulled tightly into a bun behind her. She has a face of purity which takes the light well. And whether in film or photography. I mean. She is beautiful, she is pure. She gives photos, shots of extraordinary beauty because they have grace. The prince has put on his full uniform with gold epaulettes and in turn comes forward covered in medals. His face is that of an impassive sphinx. It's difficult to guess the feelings of a man who seems to have always learned to hide them in public. What is Grace thinking? She who had never stopped telling him that he should run away, save both of them and get married in a small mountain chapel. The newlyweds' yes was inaudible. I will take you as my lawful wife. Grace Patricia here. According to the rite of our Mother the Holy Church. Grace, Patricia, do you want to take to legitimize, to reign? Louis Henri, Maxence, Bertrand here. According to the rite of our Mother, the Holy Church. And that when I fly away a matrimonial. Nothing escapes the cameras. These caught the disturbing moment when Grace came to the aid of Rainier who was resisting the nuptial ring. Many years later, Grace would explain that she had given all the press clippings from the ceremony to a cloud so that she could make an album, but that she had not been able to look at it for years and even talk about it. simply with Rainier her marriage as the event had escaped them. And when he was asked what was the highlight of that day that changed his life. She especially remembered the moment when she said to herself, There I am. This is a one-way street. There's no way out. By becoming a princess. Grace had also become a four-time duchess, four times a marquise, seven times a countess and nine times a baroness. In a few seconds, a small yes spoken in a low voice had radically changed his identity. The question now was what it was in her that would manage not to be upset. it is rare to be able to precisely give the date of birth of a myth. Well here it is possible. April 19, 1956 And it is even rarer for the heroes of a myth to be its skillful masterminds. Well, that's what Rainier and Grace will become. By writing with a true genius of staging the rest of their shared story. It is after the exhaustion of celebrating their wedding that Grace is awakened to finally get to know each other. He had never been alone. What dark truth would he discover about each other now that the party was over? Well no ! The honeymoon of the two sovereigns in the Mediterranean went very well. Their initial intuition was therefore good. He was not wrong. Despite the fabricated side of their marriage, they discovered that there was enough affinity between them that they could love each other for years. Grasse was indeed the woman Regnier was waiting for, not only beautiful, but intelligent and sensitive, and capable of charming an arena with a single gesture. And Grace, for her part, was no less happy than him for having made the right choice. I wanted to get married, she explained, but I didn't want it to be with someone who would have become Mr. Kelly. The most important thing for me was to find a husband who was a man and who knew how to remain one. This clearly seemed to be the case with Prince Rainier. On returning to Monaco. So Grace was happy. Doubly happy even. No one knew it yet, but she was already pregnant. As if, having barely become a princess, she had conscientiously fulfilled her prince's dearest wish to have a successor. The magazine covers that displayed the image of their budding happiness didn't lie. The two lovebirds were in love and delighted and confident. That said, by marrying Rainier, Grace had married Monaco and by marrying Monaco, she had married a strange life which seemed to have transformed her by the wave of a magic wand into a model little girl. How do you see your role as princess in Monaco? I am especially looking forward to familiarizing myself with social and charitable activities and thoroughly studying and understanding the various issues. A strange life, regulated like clockwork, is made up of daily obligations, liturgy, ritualized staging. A life that does not suffer improvisation and even less letting it go. The transition to the sweetness of the honeymoon was brutal and greasy began her life as a princess being sick every day. It must be said that the Monegasques, who enthusiastically greeted the marriage of the century, did not help him much. Insensitive to his obvious good will. Some even looked at her with suspicion, wondering if in the end, she would be able to integrate into their little world. But John Kelly's daughter, who had learned in her childhood to put on a good face in all circumstances, didn't let anything show and accepted all these new constraints with a smile. I had a lot of problems when I came here, she admitted later. Since I was a foreigner, many thought I would stay that way. Luckily, a happy event cleared all the clouds and it was Rainier himself who came to comment on it in front of the press. Monseigneur, we would like to know the first names that you and Her Serene Highness Princess Grace chose for the newborn. You know that the question of first names was resolved after a long debate between the princess and myself. And finally we arrived at a selection. If it's a boy, the little Prince would first be called Gregoire. Georges Pierre Richard. If it's a girl. Caroline, Louise, Marguerite, Monseigneur, do you plan to have other heirs? But of course ! January 23 at 11 a.m. 21, a cannon shot announced the birth of little Princess Caroline. Barely the news was out. She knew. That flags and banners in national colors appeared in all the windows of the principality . The population showed their joy. In the hours following Caroline's birth, said the boss of Paris-Match. Regner brought us together in one of the salons of the Hotel de Paris. The princely photos were put up for auction and each of us was invited to put in an envelope the price that our newspaper proposed. Match offered 6 million francs, an enormous sum for the time. But France-Soir won by offering 1 million more. Having acquired a taste for the presence of journalists since his marriage to Grace, Kelly Renier was now convinced that the future of the Rock depended on the curiosity that he would succeed in arousing among journalists, and he was therefore counting on the media coverage of his offspring to continue to attract the press and especially photographers. The very word paparazzi did not yet exist at the time, and reign was far from suspecting that by doing so, he himself was bringing the wolves into the fold. A second pregnancy, just a few months after the birth of the first princely baby, would therefore turn the media machine even harder. The affair turned all the more quickly as Grace, decidedly perfect this time, was to give birth to a boy. Expected and prepared like that of the King of Rome. All things considered, the birth of the Little Prince of Monaco was greeted with 101 cannon shots and the faithful Monegasque subjects learned with satisfaction that the problem of Prince Rainier's succession had now been resolved. Same image as for the birth of little Caroline. Same setting, same staging and same global craze. 25 years later, another princess, Lady Diana, giving birth to the future King of England, will say the most difficult part of motherhood. It's this inner worry that we feel and that we must not bring up. Check out these private images of the princely family. Watching these images remain secret for years and seem to be light years away from the hustle and bustle of the palace. Albert and Caroline. Filmed throughout their childhood. Filmed most often by Grace Kelly who had moved to the other side of the camera and who now liked what others did. What is the first role? Albert and Caroline. Become, reluctantly, the two essential actors in the fairy tale that their parents had invented. Because it is the law of the genre. The great myths need heirs, even if it means consuming them like Saturn devouring his son. The first question I would like to ask you, I think everyone is asking themselves. It is a subject of astonishment and a little admiration. We wonder how you managed to go from a lifestyle that was that of an American star to the life of the Princess of Monaco. They are two very different lifestyles. Is it very difficult ? Yes, transitions are always difficult and for me, there were perhaps several transitions to make, that is to say from a single life, from a married woman and from the point of view of changing countries and a language. Regner, taking pleasure in fatherhood, played heartily with Caroline and Albert, not wanting him to suffer from his absence as he himself had suffered from that of his parents. And there, leaving the reserve imposed on him by his function, he appeared laughing, relaxed and obviously joyful. Grace, also thinking about her own childhood, said she wanted to take into account the personality of each of her children and above all let them flourish. I don't want to consider them as inferior beings. On the contrary, I want to respect the adults they will become later. But make no mistake, Grace was a strict mother, as severe as Rainier and demanding of her children that they respect what she called our rules of life and our eternal values. She ensured that the two little ones, whenever protocol required it, immediately responded to the wishes of the palace. How could Caroline have imagined, while accompanying her in her official events, that a few years earlier, her mother was swimming naked with Clark Gable in Lake Victoria or doing the 400 strokes with Ava Gardner? And here Princess Grasse arrives on her head, accompanied by Little Princess Caroline and Prince Rainier three, accompanied by Little Prince Albert. After the snack, the children received magnificent toys from the hands of the sovereigns in the hall of mirrors. Because his father was preparing him to ascend the throne. Albert had an even more constrained childhood than that of his sister. One day, when he was only five or six years old, he found himself in the middle of a group of children who were asked by an old lady what each of them wanted to do when they grew up. One replied that he wanted to be a firefighter and the other a policeman. Albert sighed. Oh, I have no choice. Albert had even less choice as Rainier intended to leave him not a small resort, but a real state. And to transform Monaco, everything remained to be done. There are no easy ways to rule. To have your hands free. He dissolves the National Council, the single chamber of the Monegasque Parliament and purely and simply suspends the Constitution. France is annoyed, but General de Gaulle, curious to see this American princess up close that everyone is talking about, nevertheless invites her to reign at the Elysee. He is received like the head of state that he is, but with great pomp. And Grace Kelly very skillfully. It's amazing. The actress reads the general's complete works. Finally his memoirs. This fact makes notes on her memoirs, learns them by heart and during dinners, she is next to Princess Grace and Princess Grace, very skillfully speaks to her, makes references to her memoirs and de Gaulle is fascinated by this female. He says she's not only beautiful, she's amazing, etc. Suddenly, a year later, it was the turn of reign and grace to welcome General de Gaulle and his wife to Monaco. Under a treaty dating from 1918, the prince had to ask the French government for permission to marry. And on this level as on others, French supervision began to weigh on him. For his part, General de Gaulle was wary of this little prince whom he suspected of being a little too close to the Americans and kept an eye on him. What had to happen therefore happened, and in October 1962, a real crisis against a backdrop of tax exile broke out between Monaco and France. Let's face it, between France and Monaco, nothing is going well. But we have not yet heard the cannons of the castle thunder and it seems that the buildings are growing according to the number of companies that have settled in this tax-free country, which is, in other words, a dream. But where do they naturally generate the bulk of their turnover in France and avoid taxes? The border is so symbolic. The fruit merchant is in Monaco, the baker across the street, in the Alpes Maritimes. However, in the middle of the night, a first barrier of customs officers was installed. First pressure measurement. Will Monaco be a foreign territory or will the suspended Franco-Monegasque negotiations resume to reach a tax agreement? Of this unequal fight. Monaco depended on France for its railways, its water, gas and electricity supplies. Regnier nevertheless came out with his head held high and even strengthened. Grace, who had been at his side from start to finish, had nothing to do with it. Yes, I think that Grace Kelly helped to avoid the head-on confrontation between her somewhat blunt husband who sometimes lacked subtlety, and De Gaulle. She didn't go to Hollywood school for nothing and her fame has certainly softened the relationship between two characters with quite strong temperaments. So De Gaulle and Rainier, in that sense, yes, played a political role. Good. Ultimately, if we take stock of Grace's first six years in Monaco, it's quite a success. Yes, all the witnesses told me that those first years spent on the rock were rather pleasant, especially since it corresponded to the economic development in which Grace invested a lot. It was she who attracted all the American capital. It was she who brought in all the big American business, industrial and actor names. Actor, yes, singer too, and not just any singers. Like Frank Sinatra who, like Cary Grant, became one of Monaco's regulars. Because after dusting off the Palace, Grace shared with Rainier the same desire to reconcile the Principality with its century. The Principality does not want to live from its past ; it is at a turning point in its evolution and I sincerely believe that Monte-Carlo is one of the rare exceptions where we can reconcile the charm of the past with the demands of modern life. But there remains a major enemy there who reigns in particular over the casinos, a considerable source of income for Monaco. It is the Greek shipowner Aristotle Onassis, an immensely rich man, boss of the SBM, the all-powerful sea bathing company which controls a good part of the rock and which Regnier now wants to get rid of. And he's going to get there. He is still very skilled at ruling. He gradually built his skill. He faces increasing difficulties. Well, because fighting the Monegasques is one thing, but fighting General de Gaulle is still not the same level. And when he finds himself facing a Nazi who is a particularly cunning guy, who is a businessman, who is a very big international businessman, who has enormous financial success, he manages to corner him. Overnight. Indeed, Reynie passed a law which modified the rules of the game and Onassis left Monaco with the same feeling of having been cheated. Once Onassis left to reign definitively as the only master on board. Yes, from his takeover bid for SBM, he becomes the boss. He becomes the boss and he decides everything. An absolute lord. An autocrat. He is the one who decides everything that happens in Monaco. Uniforms, prison guards to choose from, the color of the carpet, a new conference hall. He is the one who decides everything. So. Rainier won his second bet. He is married to one of the most beautiful women in the world. He stood up to France to eliminate its opponents. For the myth to be completed, it must now sublimate Monaco. 20 years after her marriage, the result is spectacular. The rock no longer has anything to do with the small town over which Louis II reigned. Villas, buildings, convention centers at the cost of often gigantic works, the Principality has become a modern city. To resolve certain problems, it was obliged to gain access to the sea and thus the territory of the principality grew by a fifth with the three full lands that were achieved. Rainier encourages much broader tourism than that on which Onassis had focused and to satisfy the new American clientele that the arrival of Grace had favored, he renovated the hotels and had new ones built. At the same time, it managed to attract hundreds of companies to diversify the rock economy, seeking high value-added products such as perfumes or electronics. 20 years later, his marriage reigned in finding the master signifier of his personal legend. He is the prince builder and his admirers now compare Monaco to Manhattan. If you allow yourself the expression, you are the boss of the Principality. Yes that's right. Actually. It's almost a CEO position but complicated. Dozens of political facets that must be played and taken into account. Alas, if 20 years after his marriage, Regne could confidently assume himself as a prince and CEO, and as a husband and father, it was far from being the same for Grace Kelly, because for her, from 1962 , the myth had begun to lose its color when she believed that her destiny still belonged to her a little, that she could have at least one personal project to remake cinema and once again arouse desire rather than respect. But now, she had become the prisoner of the legend of Monaco. And upon learning that their princess was going to return to Hollywood for a while to film in Marnie under the direction of Alfred Hitchcock, the Vatican protocol, the Monegasques were indignant. And in the end, the prince told him no, no without appeal. And she returned to the palace with the feeling that at 32, she would never leave it again. Dear abandoned Hitch. The film broke my heart. I was so excited to participate and especially to work with you again. When we meet, I will explain to you in person all the reasons that led me to make this decision. It is so unfortunate that things happened this way, and I am deeply sorry. Dear Grace, Yes, it's so sad. I was so excited about this new film together. Back to square one. And then came Stephanie into the world, whom her sister and brother welcomed with joy and grace. Kelly, picking up her camera again, began filming her toddlers and their parents from all angles. About little Stephanie, Grace will say one day you will see, she will be the most original of my three children. But Stephanie, like Caroline and Albert, grew up without knowing what her mother had herself sacrificed in terms of her own originality. and without really believing that this woman, with her prim air and good-natured cheerfulness, could have known a completely different life than that of a serene Highness. Be confident at every public appearance, watch your appearance and make soothing remarks. My husband and I try to monitor our children's education very closely. So today, this poses a lot of problems for parents. The world is changing so quickly and with astonishing speed. But above all we try to prepare our children for today's world. Grace tried to convince herself that everything was fine and, for example, by coming to pick up her children from school herself, she let the general public understand that Monaco had not put any shackles around her neck and that she could live normally. But the media pressure was increasingly strong, both on her children and on herself. And she had come to accept that it would never end. Our children are targeted a little more. Every gesture, every thing is seen and criticized and often it's not easy for children. She watches under the spotlight like that. Ring that little football over here. Protected on the way to school by a bodyguard. Albert, however, was treated like the other students as soon as he crossed the threshold. I have succeeded in. Rise, rise, lie down. So. When I come. Yes. You have exactly the same education as all the other children in Monaco. I believe it, yes. I believe him. I think it's a good thing. You don't learn anything special when you have the destiny you're going to have. Well, no. Nothing but contact with adults and. Are especially with my father. Providing education can be a little more comprehensive. However, the unconscious of the young hereditary prince was there to remind him of the weight of his destiny. And it is no coincidence that Albert, from a very young age, suffered from a symptom that was unfortunate to say the least. Accomplished sportsman, but poor talker, Albert Begue. Actually, not all the time. Not when he spoke English, his mother's language, but French, the language of his father and his future responsibilities. Well done Albert! It's Albert I, the shy one. Me, now that I was before, but. Always a little bit. Always a little shy and yet always where reigning required him to be. Today, my son is with me, already aware of his duties and responsibilities that his high office will give you. I trust him completely. Like me, he will have, I know, the same concerns, the same concerns for our prosperity and your well-being, and the same desire to maintain our centuries-old independence intact in the union of all Monegasques around him. To help you focus. By proposing to Graz to marry her, Rainier protested one day. I had hidden nothing from him about the life that awaited him. I even painted a picture that was darker than reality. Warned or not. Still, the princess, in the countless official images that we keep of her, seems lost. Absent gaze, mechanical gesture grace in public works somehow. No doubt the two sovereigns continued to love each other, and perhaps even a lot. But each loved the other in their own way and as their child grew up, he no longer felt the same need to be together. Rainier lived his life in Monaco, giving free rein to his love of cars and animals. I particularly loved animals, a lot. More than humans. That may be saying a lot. Are there many humans? And. And thanks, everything. While looking after the Monaco Red Cross and its other charitable works, he spent a good part of his time take a walk, read poetry or glue on large sheets of paper. Dried flowers. The eldest of three children, Caroline arrived first as a teenager and with a decided desire. No question of perpetuating the family myth. No question of marrying like Grace Kelly, a prince. Installed in Paris for her studies, she took pleasure in showing herself in the company of various serving knights, obviously annoying her mother who had come to watch over her, but also delighted to have an excuse herself to leave Monaco. And Caroline ended up falling in love with Philippe Junod, an inveterate party animal 17 years her senior, which corresponded exactly to the age difference between Grace Kelly and Oleg Cassini, the man she had wanted to marry before Rainier. Grace, who dreamed of marrying her daughter to the Prince of Hanover, was disoriented. But what will people think? she cried, finally accepting a disappointing marriage rather than one of public honors. Why did Caroline defy her parents like this? Because he was a playboy and she needed it. To have her rebellious period or And then she fell madly in love. How you can fall in love at 20, with a guy who is not made for you, but who is rather friendly, attractive and who takes you to another world. Tense marriage, overwhelmed parents. My young husband and wife delighted. It was the event of the year in this uninterrupted reality show that was now Monaco. After. Grace. Caroline has always been the most media-oriented of the family. On the wall point of view covers. When I arrived, I think Caroline had had 550 since birth. Finally, she had the most point of view coverage. One day we wake up and wonder what we did. This is what Caroline says about her marriage. Realizing his mistake from his honeymoon. One day we wake up and wonder what we did. This is perhaps what Grace had never dared to say to herself so clearly. In any case, the fact is that in 1982, 20 years after Alfred Hitchcock's aborted project, she found the energy to taste the charm of a film shoot one last time. Sadly, the result was pathetic. Alongside Edouard Meeks, his role in Arrangement Imposed by Robert de Helm was like the inconsistent screenplay, and the film was fortunately never broadcast, neither in the cinema nor on television, but was filmed just before his death. It is nevertheless Grace Kelly's last film and it is therefore moving. Grace Kelly, Princess Grace of Monaco, died following an accident she had two days ago. From a cerebral hemorrhage, they say. From the hospital that bore her name and where she died, she was 53 years old. Princess Grace of Monaco had married Prince Rainier III in 1956. She had everything going for her: beauty, fortune and love. It's 10:15 this morning. The princely palace of Monaco as no one ever imagines it. The sky is still blue there. The interior courtyard and the esplanade are the same. And yet, all it takes is a procession of a few people dressed in black in a world usually smiling and colorful to give the image of mourning. The disappearance of the princess shocked Prince Rainier. He was not yet 60 years old and his life would continue for many years, but without Grace Kelly, the imaginary double who had allowed him to exist. He seemed to have reached the end of his own story. It was obviously not the same for the princess's three children. Stephanie was not yet an adult and if Albert, like Caroline, had passed the age of twenty, it had not been for very long and it was on their shoulders that the survival of the myth of Monaco now rested, even though this myth had been tailor-made for their parents and they now had to find instructions for use on their own. Caroline being the eldest daughter, it was she who, quite naturally, found herself on the front line at each of her public appearances, observers asked themselves the same question. Will she one day be able to take up the torch that Grace Kelly had let go? However, she was in complete disarray, including in her private life where, after divorcing Philippe Juneau, she was more than perplexed about her romantic future. How, in these conditions, can you identify with your mother and extend her legend? It was then that she met Stefano Casiraghi. Stefano Casiraghi, three years her junior, son of a rich Italian industrialist, appeared to her as the ideal husband, the opposite of Philippe Junot. She was immediately convinced that her mother would have loved him and that he, for sure, could help her maintain her rank as princess. As a result, the one who had said that would not matter to me if she was not Caroline of Monaco accepted wholeheartedly everything that was expected of her, and in particular that she in turn embodies the myth like Grace carnally. I don't know if the princely family. Remained perched on the rock twiddling her thumbs. I don't think we're there yet. You have to live with the times. It's necessary. Then we are a small community. It's a bit like a big family and everyone. Everyone puts their own effort into it and. We must not forget that there are very, very few Monegasques. In a few years, Caroline became the new icon of Monaco. And like Grace with her three children, the new icon allowed herself to be filmed with her own toddlers Andrea, Charlotte and Pierre. Sen deprived of happiness, which Grace was no longer there to see, but which echoed the one she herself had filmed. Thanks WHO ? Thank you Babette. THANKS. What's his name Grandpa? What is his name ? The Lord ? Alas, the. Rocher, to exist, had to attract attention again and again, and Caroline could neither break nor even slow down the mechanics of the spectacle that her parents had put in place. And as the myth of Monaco was never as attractive as in the drama, she suffered the full brunt of this media indecency of which she was both the accomplice and the victim. We are just receiving images of Princess Caroline's arrival by helicopter. The Grimaldi family is once again in mourning. Stefano Casiraghi dies on board his offshore boat while participating in the world championships off the coast of Monaco. Two Black Mercedes bring the Grimaldi and Casiraghi family who this time are reunited for worse. The song which proclaimed the joy of living in Monaco was decidedly misleading. In the world of pretty princesses, there is more pain than fun, and that's why their adventures are so popular. The interest that Monaco arouses is cannibalistic. Yes, for 60 years, the Principality has been on the menu of our ferocity. As we sketched the sweet Caroline yesterday and the day before yesterday the so perfect Grace, tomorrow we sketch the pretty Charlene. And we look with all the more curiosity at the cherubs to which the princesses give birth as we are already watching for their first fall down the stairs. It is precisely this fate that Stephanie, the other heir to the myth, wanted to escape, the one whom the media had scrutinized since her birth. She was born Princess of Monaco. Very good. But was that a reason to sentence her like Grace Kelly to life imprisonment? When his mother died, his conviction was made. She would be free and would only rely on herself to get there. Too bad if, unlike her brother and sister, she had to stop her studies and take her own legs. Stephanie flees into the perfumes where she has cola to her name and her insignificant, unambiguous fragrance. The elusive. Which is sweet at the same time, it's true. When he is there. And then when he says that, he feels just as good during the day as he does in the evening. She also escaped into fashion, both as a model and as a designer, where she demonstrated a relaxation that was reminiscent of that of Grace Kelly in her first moments in New York. Let them run away, especially in the song where, to everyone's surprise, they found success. What are they running after? The princess, The glory, She knows the honors. She is accustomed. There remained the life of an artist, a girl's dream or a marketing operation. A singing princess. Is this really reasonable? But she made people laugh so much when. Later, the. When you have. When you were little, you sang. No, I never think I'll be here today tonight to make a record. I never imagined that I could do this job. In his private life. Stephanie Don't save yourself any more. She had numerous adventures, liaisons and, for her first husband, made a choice which disconcerted the palace and the protocol which judged her infatuation with a princess to be extravagant. Daniel du Cruel, who had been her bodyguard after having been a fishmonger and with whom she had two children. The love and attraction that there can be between two people has no barriers, neither social nor racial. A religion for Mantua. But with each new love, she showed the same desire to live and live. Far from the myth of Monaco where pretty princesses cry so often. Stephanie is the realest. She had the most amazing life. In any case, she does exactly what she wants, what she likes and at the same time, I understand her. I see her in the official Monaco shows, I suffer for her. And there, we feel that she doesn't care about her dress, but that she has to wear it because she has to have a suit. We feel that she is either too tanned, or her hair is too short, or her hair is too pulled or too tattooed. But hey, she really has trouble with that beard. Of the three children, Stephanie was undoubtedly the most mistreated. His turbulent and atypical life, arousing in the media sometimes aggression, sometimes irony, even condescension. It's a small protocol problem that I'm going to ask you here. Do people often call you Highness, outside the Principality? No, not very often anyway. I call you Stephanie because when I take out my records and my perfume, so it's just my name. Stephanie So we say. But the protocol is Your Highness, it's Your Highness, period. How is it ? His Highness. Highness, it's not my Highness, I don't have the right. That's your version. That's my version. In 1996, the sky even fell on her head when paparazzi, hidden behind bushes, managed to film and then broadcast around the world the sexual antics of her own husband, trapped by a young stripper. But the worst remains the sinister rumor which pursued her for years because she was sitting next to Grace Kelly in the damaged car. She was suspected of having been behind the wheel and of being responsible for her mother's death. I was 17, she explained one day, accurately analyzing the myth generated by her parents. I had just lost my mother and I was accused of having killed her. How can you not feel guilty when everyone looks at you like they're saying how come you're still alive? But Mom was such a magical character that it was impossible to accept that he something as banal as a car accident happened to him. So we imagined that I was the one at fault because she was too perfect for that. Above all, don't be perfect. That's what Albert, the one who couldn't run away like his sister because he was the future ruler of Monaco. This is what Albert understood after the death of Grace Kelly while looking at the chimera that his parents had made. And this is perhaps also what explains his curious journey made of detours and very personal choices. Bobsleigh champion at. To be a prince. We are no less. Sporty. The proof: Albert Grimaldi is one of the 96 competitors in the event. Two-man bobsleigh at the Calgary Games. For years, Albert has done everything from flying, running, official visits, humanitarian, cycling, triathlon, sailing, weightlifting, tennis, humanitarian , Still a lot of humanitarian work. Albert did everything, including illegitimate children. Everything except what was expected of him. Let him get married and make a little prince in his turn. Marriage rumors are unfounded. You are a free man, my lord. I like being a free man. But good. Sure, I. Think marriage will happen one day. But you must not rush things and you must not rush me. For years, Albert was the most coveted bachelor in the small world of crowned heads. And in no hurry to lose his freedom, Albert was fortunate not to have to hurry any further to govern, because his father, even as his health gradually declined, clung to power as his most precious possession. So when Albert, upon the death of Rainier, finally became the 14th prince of Monaco, he continued to take his time and remained single for six more years, as if he said so. What Madame du Barry had whispered just before placing her head under the edge of the guillotine. One more moment, Mr. Executioner! God, to whom. Every man must. Obedience, help Prince Albert II. That you put at the head of our country to fulfill its mission in compliance with your law. Albert waited until he was 53 to get married and fatherhood was not an issue for him until he was 56. Incredible procrastination which was certainly the little stroke of genius of his unconscious, His way of not submitting entirely to the imperative demands of the myth of Monaco. So. Both rebellious and docile. Albert, Caroline and Stephanie all three finally succeeded where their mother had failed to trick with this devouring myth that she had created with Rainier, to continue to make it exist, of course, but without giving up all of their own desire to it. . Thanks to them, to their pranks, to their clumsiness, to their waywardness. The Rock would have a hard time making people believe today that it is as smooth as a picture from Epinal. An American magazine. Some time after giving up cinema for good to bury herself alive on the Rock. Grace said I wasn't looking for happiness at all costs and that's why, in a sense, I'm happy with my life. One day a little girl wrote to him and asked. I would like to know how long a day you stay on the throne with your crown? I don't know what Grace answered him. Maybe she should have just told him as quickly as possible. 60 years after the wedding of the century, her children and we can hope for them, her grandchildren, seem to have learned their lesson. Myths are only perfect for those who admire them from afar, for those who experience them up close, it is most often a nightmare.