- Second Corinthians &quot;Do not let the enemy, for we are not unaware of his schemes.&quot; Now, the reason why that is because there are so or unaware of Satan's schemes. That just simply means they and it's happening all around them. And then the Bible says in another place, &quot;How will we know about unless a teacher is sent?&quot; And so I've been sent into your phone, into your newsfeed to of the devil so that and cause you to accept something that looks so normal, so common, but it's actually going to destroy you, which is why we're gonna I'm not gonna waste any time. The 10 most common cursed objects that you have in your home, okay? And as we go through each I'm gonna give you a brief, brief explanation so you Get a lot of questions about this, and I wanna make sure that I as we go through this teaching, okay? Now, the very first Now, you may have a dream Commonly dream catchers are above beds. People put them symbolically to say, Well, I hope it catches all the bad dreams and then enables me to But the Bible says that imitating an angel of light. And so witchcraft always comes It always comes in the form of false help. And so just like you see this it looks peaceful, it looks serene, but the reality of it Now, oftentimes while I'm people say, &quot;Pastor Mike, you're not being culturally sensitive. That's Native American culture,&quot; or the other cultures that I speak about. Listen, I am not bashing a culture. I just need to be clear. But I am a pastor and it's my obligation And as we begin to break I hope that you can understand that I have to talk and And so, no, I am not... This is not anti Native but the Bible says, &quot;We wrestle but against principalities, powers, and rulers in high places.&quot; So I am not fighting a culture. I'm not fighting anyone human, but there are demonic And if we are not wise, being taken captive by demonic and through and around And let me just say that they show up in many different The dream catchers can show up in bedrooms like I showed a picture previously. They show up oftentimes in cars. And what it represents is a false hope. &quot;This thing is going to help me.&quot; Witchcraft always comes false help, okay? If you have a dream catcher, destroy it and remove because behind that is demonic activity. Okay, let me go a little bit deeper, because we're gonna And again, I get a lot of kickback. I get a lot of people who and they get very upset And it may actually be that are manifesting and getting mad. And so we might have demons right now as I even But in Deuteronomy chapter &quot;Neither shall you bring into your house, less you become a cursed thing like it, but you shall utterly detest and abhor it, for it is a cursed thing.&quot; So Deuteronomy chapter seven, verse 26 is referencing how Israel by all of these pagan nations. And oftentimes, the children by bringing some of their and into their lives. And over and over and God had to say, &quot;You shall not And you've got to utterly destroy,&quot; and even in other scriptures it says, &quot;Burn it, destroy it.&quot; Okay? But I think Deuteronomy is very important because it says, &quot;Neither shall you bring an unless you become an a And the thing that you need become the thing that you worship. You always become the And so what happens when into your life is that your identity to the idol. And instead of you you become more like that thing because you're not putting you're putting your trust in that thing. Does that make sense? Can somebody just shout me and let me know if this is helping them? All right. Okay, good. I'm hoping that this is helping somebody. Another one that's next And I wanna talk about sage just briefly. The reason why I wanna talk about sage is because there are some people who claim that sage has medicinal purposes. There's some people that claim and that when you burn it in your house, it helps destroy bacteria. Here's the thing, there are many other It's the simple fact that sage As a matter of fact, I'm gonna show you some that help you understand that connection, because this is the thing, the enemy is crafty. As a matter of fact, in scripture, he first shows up in the garden And that means that he is stealthy, that he is always stalking and creeping. And so the enemy will cause And then, you'll say, well, sage, I burn sage and it helps me in my home for antimicrobial, antibacterial. But as you know if you've sage is a very, very common And so you've got to get rid of it. Can I get an amen? Sage is used for summoning. Sage is used for conjuring. Sage is used for creating and it's incorporated into many And so you don't need it for... Don't lie and say, oh, well, You know what you're doing. Okay? Number three is this, and just stay with me, Ouija boards. Now I wanna say this because right now and they're saying, &quot;Pastor Mike, we don't have but I wanna increase your awareness. There are digital forms, there are digital forms of Ouija boards. There is digital forms of a And so sometimes you may One of the other things that is that your kids, and I've could actually own one, They feel bad about owning it. And I'm gonna tell you, if your kid lives in your house, it's your house, your rules. It's your house, it's your belief system. It's your house, it's your God. As for me and my house, In other words, you don't get a choice. If you're my child, I choose And for as offensive that as that is, I know that there's some social that are listening &quot;That's brainwashing.&quot; No, it's not. See, everything has a belief Why do the... why does the world get to is attached to our children? If you live in my house, I get to determine what you learn. And I say that because with there's been many times into my teenager's room. I've played video games with her. I've come into her world And then together we have found that on her PlayStation or Nintendo or whatever system that she has, that there's internet connections. And within those browsers, it will auto bring up horoscopes and different things like that. So don't assume that it doesn't mean it's not there. As a matter of fact, one of the most purchased items believe it or not, a Ouija board, because people want to conjure the dead. They wanna speak to dead relatives. This is a time coming into Their awareness and their If this video is helping you, you've got to hit the thumbs up right now to ensure that many more So go ahead, hit the thumbs up right now and help this video reach more people. Ouija boards, we've got to be careful because during the month of October, your kid may get one from a friend, they may find one at They may... The enemy is crafty, just like I said. Second Corinthians chapter two verse 11, &quot;In order that Satan might not outwit us, for we are not unaware of his schemes.&quot; Now we know that he is always I'm gonna pick up the pace, so make sure you stay with because I don't want you With that is tarot cards. Tarot cards. And I wanna show you, in this Now look, now look, I just went online and and this is what I wanna that are probably watching this video. And they're gonna go in on me in the comment section about how, well, it's possible to use sage without it being ritualistic, okay? It's so common to use sage in other new age practices, that even when you use it comes up, okay? But again, tarot cards And again, just because don't mean they're not there. As a matter of fact, I've talked to parents who have &quot;Hey, you don't own any And to their amazement, &quot;You know what? I don't have a full deck, but I just have one because I use it as a bookmark. And I'm telling you, you've got to take inventory because if you don't take inventory of it, you might be holding your... You might be holding your Let me tell you why. Because tarot cards are to get information about And I'm saying this in to get wisdom about And so what is that? It's a counterfeit for the real thing, which is the Bible says the Holy Spirit will teach you all things. The Bible says that God will knowledge that the body that he uses the church to And so we don't have We have scripture, we And so if we don't know that, well, our kids might be in the other room, or maybe you may have a tarot So we got to be wise. This is when I've got somebody that said, &quot;Yes, this happened Okay, now y'all know I'm not lying. Look at the comment section right now. They are confirming it, okay? An eight-year-old had a because the enemy is crafting, stealthy, always trying to see what he can do, okay? Here's the next one. This You see these items together? Crystals. Crystals. As a matter of fact, the crystal, the picture that I have here on top of tarot cards. And we've got to be when you go to the mall or you... I'm telling you what happens okay? It gets packaged with normal things. And so, oh, I'm gonna buy a candle because I like the way this candle smells, and I'm gonna buy some new And then boom, there's in the form of decor. But then when you read about the company that the crystal is behind, or you see that also, oh, that's weird, the crystal that's next to the home decor is also next to a deck of tarot cards. See what's happening right now is that they won't put and they won't put crosses But what'll happen is they'll put... They'll package the new age. And this is how it happens, okay? The crystals ends up getting packaged with all these other things. So you've got to be aware. And the reason why crystals is because they're And people... Now listen, can you collect Can you be somebody that's into nature? Can you be somebody that's I'm not saying that owning crystals or owning stones is necessarily, because some of you're gonna because I've known people to and gems and to collect different rocks. And I know people that of biology and into ecology, and they're into the different sciences. I'm not talking about that. What I'm saying is you've got You've got to understand And if you're not wise, Deuteronomy it says, &quot;Neither shall or an idol into your house.&quot; So sometimes when you're they'll come with different packaging that has different statements or phrases. And if you look up the company, if you go to their Instagram, if you go to the different companies, and you'll see the statements behind it and you'll start to see, oh, no, that this is a cursed item because of the system that And so yeah, if you're a geologist, if you're into that, fine. But I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about you're buying where it comes from, what it stands for, has a value system attached to it. And that's the biggest thing that I want to help you understand. There is a value system There's a belief system And so watch, healing crystals, so when you think about crystals, you think about healing Now, what we're supposed to do that by the stripes that Jesus Come on, can somebody help By his stripes, we are healed. And so it's not healing crystals, it's healing savior, healing Jesus. So false hope, false healing, come on. And so what'll happen is from healing and we connect crystals, and see, it's idolatry. Idolatry is false hope, false healing. And what we've got to We've got to say no, I don't need a crystal because the way that Jesus can heal me. And so that's what we've... The heartbeat of what I'm trying... Now, most people won't and they're gonna hate they're gonna talk about But the thing is, I'm a man and I've got an obligation to tell you what Deuteronomy chapter I've got an obligation as Second Corinthians &quot;We will not let the devil outwit us.&quot; I don't need a healing crystal. I've got a healing savior, Okay, let's keep going. That's the first five. You're halfway there. Make a commitment to stay for all 10. How good is this? Hit the subscribe button right okay? Hit subscribe, ring the bell notification so you never miss another video. All right. So let's go with number six. Now, this, I've encountered a lot. I'm gonna go deeper and I'm gonna tell some I was in a home and I was actually... This woman told me... Now this is years and years ago, I don't make house calls anymore, but I was in a home and a woman told me I'm having poltergeist experiences. I'm having experiences where things are falling off of the walls, and I'm having experiences and there's all this craziness going on. So I said, you know what? I'm gonna show up with my GoPros. I'm gonna set up cameras Now, I knew that the but at the same time, I do believe that there and there are things that Demons anchor to them. Demons draw strength from them. Demons create that value so that they can get access to your life. As a matter of fact, demons don't even want you because I'm going to reveal the truth. And then you're gonna and break down and get rid of these items, and they're gonna lose a So this woman, I remember... I remember going throughout her house and just trying to discern, And in one room in particular, there is a picture that in real time while I was praying through the house, just fell right off the wall. And it was a bizarre experience. As that picture flew off the wall, I heard it crash down to the ground. I walked in and this is what I saw, okay? And I wanna show you kind I saw religious statues, okay? Religious statues. Now, oftentimes people because they represent luck or blessings. Those are cursed items. Now again, I wanna be I know that there are people watching who think that I'm ignorant, that think that I'm or another culture. I'm not doing that. But again, understand, Jesus said, &quot;I am the way. I am the truth.&quot; Okay? So there is no such in the prophet of Islam. There is no truth in Hinduism. There is no truth in any... According to a true Christian, those gods do not coexist together. A true Christian believes to heaven is Jesus Christ. That's it. That is what the Bible teaches. And so understand, don't telling me about how I'm if you are not respecting mine. I mean, the Bible declares and it's Jesus. And so I can... Now watch, I can separate the people that actually worship those I can separate their from the spirit behind it. So I'm speaking on a And because I've gotten for trying to do broadcast like this. But again, Deuteronomy is just one of many scriptures He's saying, &quot;Even though these cultures are around you, Israel, even though these bordering nations are... You're doing business with them and you're around them and they know you, and you speak their language do not bring their curse items Do not bring their value system and their belief system into your home. Because bringing it into your home means that you made a purchase to bring it into your soul.&quot; And so you've got to see the connection. Is this good teaching? Is this helping somebody right now? You've got to see the in your home and bringing When you made a decision you are actually saying, &quot;Come into my mind, come into my emotions. I have an emotional connection to this. I have a mental connection. I feel something there.&quot; You hear what I'm trying to say? So there are religious statues or blessings that are cursed objects. One that's very common, especially among Gen Z is the lucky cat. And you see this, the lucky cat. Why? Because again, Satan the most acceptable form. He's not gonna show up ugly. He's gonna show up attractive, He's gonna show up. He's not gonna show up in a He's gonna show up in a So what is it? It's a cute, fluffy, But again, what's the problem with that? &quot;Pastor Mike, it's just decor. You won't let us have You wanna take everything You're over spiritualizing. You're one of those religious fanatics. Why can't I have a lucky rabbits foot? Why can't I have these charms? Why can't I...&quot; I'm gonna tell you why. Because whatever physical item you have, it becomes an idol. And now you've replaced... The Bible says, &quot;Lean not but in all your ways acknowledge Him.&quot; So I'm not gonna acknowledge a lucky cat. I'm not gonna acknowledge any kind of... What are these things called? These feet. These little... I'm not gonna... A rabbit's foot can't help me. Look to the hills for once my help comes, I'm looking to the maker of the universe. I'm looking to God Almighty through the person of Jesus Christ. And so, no, I'm not talking about somebody in the chats asking, I'm not talking about physical cats. I'm talking about look at the picture. There is a lucky cat, which Okay? So that's what I'm talking about. All right, so think statues of dead people, religious statues for luck and Okay? Now let's go a little bit further. I'm gonna tell a crazy story which is evil books, okay? Evil books. If this is helping you, I want you to hit the thumbs up, just smash the like button right now if this is helping you and out of this video. Okay, let's talk about evil books. This guy called me, and I don't do house calls anymore, but I used to document I would film it, I would show up. And this guy, he called me. He's like, &quot;You've got I'm like, What's going on? He said, &quot;Well, I wanted to test it out so I made sure that I but something is physically And he was like, &quot;Right He's like, &quot;I turned the light on, took a shower and I heard it And then I came out, and Now he lives alone. And then he said, &quot;I turned it on again. And then I was walking and then I heard the And I'm hearing all kinds of noises and I'm having these poltergeist Now I was like, okay, I'll come over now and I'll pray for you. And I mean, this is a tough guy. This guy's a bodybuilder. This guy's a tough guy. But he was just completely was spiritual and he to fight a spiritual battle. But then as I was driving, I said, Holy Spirit, give a revelation as to what is the source of this. Why is he experiencing Why does a demon in his house to flip a light switch on and off? Okay, why is this happening? And immediately the Holy and the picture was a And I called the guy, actually and I told him, I said, I I saw that there was a Is that true? And he said, &quot;Yes, my bedroom.&quot; I said, go into your bedroom. And I saw on the top shelf and all of a sudden he pulled. He said, &quot;I know exactly what You're freaking me out I have goosebumps all over He's like, &quot;I feel like in front of me.&quot; And he was like, &quot;This is what it was.&quot; It was a book of witchcraft and it was actually world and incantations and spells And he was actually... And this is where it gets crazy, he said, &quot;I bought the book I didn't buy it to do But this guy's very in intellectual. He's very philosophical. And he was like, &quot;I wanted to learn about so therefore I bought this book.&quot; So he bought it thinking it but again, it was a curse object. Now, as I continue going on about books, I need you to understand when who does the book glorify? What does the book glorify? How do you determine Okay, who does it glorify? I just wanna go a step further. A lot of women, they are I would say that that's a cursed object. Because what that book is doing is unrighteously And so you've got to be Come on. Is this helping anybody? You've got to be led by the Holy Spirit even as you are going on this journey to determine what is curse and what's not. Because what you guys is you're gonna say, &quot;Pastor I need 1,263 items on this list so I can make sure I But I'm not the Holy Spirit. I am a teacher of the Bible And so a cursed book, ask the question, who is this book glorifying? What is this book glorifying? And then go from there, okay? Smash the like button if And then drop a comment if there's anything that you've had to get rid of, okay? I wanna move on. We've just got a few more to go. Make sure you stay through Number eight, and again, Christians get in Christians get in a lot but I'm just gonna go there. So don't be mad at me. Evil toys. Evil toys. Number eight. Now, I know that there's a watching right now that where your mom made you throw She made you throw away your And you're thinking right you want me to throw away all these toys. Now listen, listen, listen, there are overtly evil toys. I've got some examples up where they're depicting And that is an obvious thing. These show up in the form These show up in the form of nostalgia, things from our past. You've got to be careful though, because these cursed they have a value system And you know what? I just wanna say this, okay? Witchcraft is real, Okay? Some of the ideologies behind the creators of these toys, of the comic books and that they come from are antichrist. As a matter of fact, do your own homework, y'all. Look up the creator of the toy, and then look at how they talk Look about how they talk Some of these people are overtly, okay? Overtly, they're trying to... They're anti-Christ. And you've got... Now listen, somebody's let's talk about Pokemon. As a matter of fact, I just had a member from my church ask me, &quot;Pastor Mike, my kid has What should I do?&quot; Pokemon cards, video games, whatever. Here's the thing, and this is why I believe a good leader doesn't tell you what to think, they tell you how to think. They give you a lens. The lens The lens is called the And so I'm not gonna tell on every little thing, do this, do that. But I will say, when I was there was a people group that we learned about called Yanomamo. And the Yanomamo were a remote people, and they were in... They were remote people One of the Yanomamo was from the United States, and they were communicating because there's been many the Yanomamo and they've And one of the high ranking witch doctors who looked at one of the Pokemon &quot;I know this demon,&quot; because he saw the And he said, &quot;This demon and to do these different behaviors.&quot; And it was crazy because in this Pokemon book, it said this Pokemon and said everything that this even though he can't read in English. So there's stories like that. That's just a story. I don't know how to verify it, but I'm saying that there are things where if it's something you just throw it out. And if when in doubt, throw it out because for your children that are righteous. There are so many things And so if this is helping you, I need to know, you got to show me some But we need to talk about these evil toys because our kids act out the behaviors. It's about emulation. Look, what is an idol? You become the thing you worship. And so if you want your kid walking around with a meat cleaver, with a mischievous face that I have up right now, then let him have that toy It's like when I had toys that... Back in the day, I was... I'm gonna kind of reveal myself, but I was all into WWF wrestling and I thought I was Hulk Hogan. But back in the day Hall Hogan said, &quot;Take your vitamins and say your prayers.&quot; And so the worst thing I would do is body slam my little brother, you know? But it's like there's a big difference between WWF action figures where you got Hulk Hogan saying, &quot;Take your vitamins and say your prayers,&quot; and then some of the stuff we got today that are systematically And here's the crazier thing. It's like as each generation increases, so do the amount of mass shootings. And so do... So at some point, we've got to acknowledge that these things do have a spiritual effect at one point, and maybe it's not any one thing, but again, you add up and enough cursed objects I'm just gonna say that But enough cursed objects in one place total up to make a curse culture. And I think we've got to be wise. Okay, that was number eight, evil toys. Number nine, and this is a big one. A big one is evil jewelry, okay? This is one of the most that I've done in a long time. Evil jewelry. Look at the You've got things in different cultures like the all seeing eye, the evil eye. You've got jewelry like Masonic rings. Sometimes they're handed down because there was a lodge that dad was a part of or And so these Masonic rings, these different jewelries you've got to be aware of them. &quot;But Pastor Mike, it's It's supposed to ward off evil.&quot; No, it's not. It's attracting evil. It's How do I know that? Because I have helped literally of people be delivered from demons. And many times I've had to I've had to make them remove the jewelry. And it's important to say evil jewelry because one scripture says in &quot;Don't even try to keep One of the scripture says, &quot;Don't even be attracted Get rid of it.&quot; I know that's intense, but well, but there's gold in And I don't wanna lose the value, not realizing that the cost of keeping it is greater than the value It's a form of deception, okay? And there's a lot of stones and gems and different things connected, and you've got to be careful. I'm telling you guys, I've done deliverance on people and the Holy Spirits told me, tell them take their earrings out. And then I come to find out that the earrings were actually bought as a part of a ritual at a music festival. I can't tell you how many to music festivals and ritualistic thing connected to it. There's a lot of new age reiki healers and there's different and things that happen that are associated with ritualistic practices. And those are things that So evil eye jewelry, jewelry because essentially, they become an idol. They are dead people. Stop I've got entire videos dedicated on it. You don't have to go as a matter of fact, do not nullify the His blood was spilled. The actual curtain was rent. Why? It was torn so that there's You can come boldly before And so I think that it's like... So sometimes when it's like, &quot;Well, I've got these little charms and I've got this saint on my necklace and I pray to the saint.&quot; I mean, it does... I feel like it grieves stop praying to Peter. Peter was just a man. Pray to me, speak to me. I'm the one who when adopted you and made Peter was just a person. But now we become fellow Come on, somebody. And so a lot of times it's like a barrier. See how this is the thing of this teaching and I Do you all still love me? Because I know I'm messing but let me just explain that I'm just being ignorant right now. Here's the thing. In between you and God is a little piece of jewelry with a saint, and now you're praying to a So that is called an idol. Remove it. Get rid of it, okay? Instead of praying for you're saying, &quot;This evil that's gonna protect me.&quot; So what's getting between Remove it. You see what I'm saying? Stop putting your trust that is not God. It's like we've got to where it's in Christ and Christ alone. And for all the people who are &quot;Oh, Pastor Mike, there's no such thing as curse this or curse that,&quot; I'm telling you, and this is why I want It's about when you you're one step closer to if not already receiving And what's happening right now that is all trying to It's almost like this hyper It's all about... It's only about the spiritual, but it's good to understand that the natural is connected as well. Why would we have entire people destroy physical items? Yes, Jesus died on the But there are items that because of the value system, the doctrines of demons that And we've got to get free, okay? So here's another one there. It's very trendy to where... We just got a few more, We got one more after this. Number nine, evil jewelry. It's very trendy to wear other religions. And so it's trendy, you know? And here's the thing that's so crazy, man. It's like popular to be It's cool, it's cool to It's almost like you're more enlightened. You're kind of like this you know what I mean? Like the perception is, oh... Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Can you drop a comment and just tell me if you Cause I'm feeling like I'm Because what'll happen is, it's like being a when you tell someone you're a Christian, that means, &quot;Oh, I get Oh, I get it. You're simple minded. Oh, you're anti-science But then there's something there's something about There's something about &quot;Oh, you must be an entrepreneur Oh, you must be open-minded and worldly and secular.&quot; Do you know what I'm trying to say? It's like we're in this weird... We're in this weird season ignorant, close-minded, and narrow minded. But then when you see like anything else they represent, that is connected and it's It's connected to, oh, you must be a truly spiritual person. You see what I'm saying? And isn't it just like the devil? Again, he always shows He always shows up in the form And so, again, you've got to be aware of Take inventory, let the Okay? And then the last, but not least is this. Now this is a big one, y'all. This is a big one. This is one I wanted to 10 out 10 soul tie objects. Let's talk about that. What is a soul tie object? And I'm just talking from doing deliverance, okay? A soul tie object is an to an experience that you had and maybe an experience with Sometimes it's an object or someone like that. But it is a soul tie object. And there's been many times where people have given me photographs, they've given me pictures, &quot;Pastor Mike, I've got I feel like it's a form of idolatry because I've looked at this picture, I've longed to be back in that moment. I've longed to be with that person.&quot; Some people are even married, they've moved on to new relationships, but they can't get rid Sometimes somebody kills they commit suicide. And that picture... And they hold onto this one It's in their wallet. And what that picture ends up representing is not the love that they but the grieving that they're stuck in. And there's a demonic Now is this revelation for somebody? Come on, let me know in the chat if this is revelation for you. So sometimes these so tie objects, this is number 10 of cursed objects. It doesn't... It's like initially the picture was like, I love them so much, I miss them. And the Bible talks about there's a season for everything. There is a season for mourning, and then there's also a put for a fresh anointing, and move on with your life. Hey, we're gonna grieve Moses. Moses died. But then there come a point where we say, we're done grieving for And so sometimes these pictures, and a lot of times in deliverance, I've encountered people having a grieving that is turned It's like this nostalgic longing. It's this desire to And they become so fixated and they've got to release that picture so that they can actually be... It's part of the freedom, okay? It's part of releasing that grief. And so soul tie objects. Now here's what I want you guys to do, because I've literally went We've been live streaming I wanna let... I want you to let me know in What revelations did you get? My greatest prayer is that as I've been going through these objects, my greatest prayer is not like this is okay, this is not okay, but rather through the scriptures and through the leading I've increased your wisdom so that you can actually be and to go into the places that you dwell, into your car, into your and make the decision to But I wanna take it So don't click off this video. It's not just about removing the object, it's about removing the belief system, the doctrine of demons, the ideologies, the religious infrastructure And so if you're gonna but you're not gonna get rid of the spirit connected to the object, you're He says I... Right? We want you to be free indeed. And so I want you to you've got to take this in phases. Phase number one is start Don't keep them. Get rid of them. Okay? Phase number two is I want Man, I feel like freedom's I'll be honest with you. I feel like deliverance is just me saying this out loud. I want you to ask yourself, what was I going through in my life? What trauma, what pain? What was happening in my life when this object entered my life? What was I trying to replace What was I trying... You get what I'm saying? Because that's where you're gonna get another level of healing. That's where you're gonna Okay? And so let me just help you. When I bought that dream catcher what was the real source Because the dream catcher's not helping, it's just creating more of an atmosphere of the demonic in your life. But really, what is the When I was seeking out tarot cards and I was trying to get then what was going on to try to get answers from tarot cars? Because Holy Spirit, I'm renouncing that. I'm bringing all those idols down, but you now speak and you prophesy and declare through your When I thought that I was gonna get healing through crystals, what in my body can I now... Now that I'm destroying these crystals, what in my body now can by your stripes, I'll be healed? These religious statues, God, now that I see the truth, that Jesus, you are the You are the only way to heaven. Now that I see that I can't I can't be helped by Hinduism and all of their gods and goddesses. You get what I'm saying? What was happening that God, my life was in such a hard place that I bought this lucky cat was gonna bring me some kind of peace, some kind of enjoyment, But God, now I'm turning to You because I don't wanna be lucky. I want Your favor. I want the mighty hand of And you know what's funny? When I was looking at that lucky cat, you know what I saw? When I was looking at that lucky cat, it's got this big hand And I thought to myself, I'm gonna tell them in that teaching, why don't you replace the lucky cat hand with the mighty hand of God? Let His hand and His And God, when I bought that jewelry and I thought that it was gonna help me, show me that only you can help me, show me that only you can. You're the only source of So listen, I'm really hoping and praying that through all this, that God just blew your mind because I wanna see y'all get free. I want you to go to the next level. If you got something out of this, smash that like button right now. Come on, tell the algorithm to get this into more people's feed and and shout an amen to me and show me some love in the chat. Come on, let's get this algorithm working for Jesus right now. If you haven't already, I'm gonna ask that you and ring the bell notification so that you never miss another live.