My name I am 20 years old. I am originally but I am currently a junior So currently I am majoring And really, really I'm involved in I do Young Life, Christian So I lead a group who are so, And I'm in my sorority, And I love it It was very and kind of the spring of my junior year It was super itchy. It started Didn't really think I was skiing with my family and every pretty much of that entire trip, to, like, the condo I would take my, ski boots off, and then I would sit and I would for like I really I figured my boots And when I took it was like That's what it was enough And that was the first thing I kind And then coming back every like, the itch got worse. I was kind of I would get, like, bruises on my arms And, that was really when we thought was kind of wrong. And so I first went to because, you know, itchy was like, And so we go to and she is kind of that it's something internal because There was nothing externally that Like, my skin was And so she sent me who did some blood They kind of looked of my legs which were covered in bruises from my nails. And but thought from scabies, which is skin lice. So the first diagnosis And so went home. Did the entire which is awful. I really don't It's like covering medicated Vaseline. Head to toe. Sleeping in it. Washing it off Doing that for probably about it was like a week. I had to do That did not work. And so I go back and my pediatrician, a lot of blood work Like, to do because, like, and all of those And so, they saw that my red, like, And so they're like, There's not enough so you're itchy. I was like, And so we went on iron and I was taking iron was getting better. If, if anything, And so and so far, like this probably a month, It started like mid March and this was going to where That was my And so I go to my dermatologist like a bigger like more well known And I get skin biopsy maybe within my skin that came back And everyone was at that point. It's probably the middle of May And, I just get really I developed a fever. I found a swollen I had the worst back I could not stay awake a couple hours And just like, super fatigued, covered in bruises. At this point, that I was tearing and causing, And it was focused my lower leg legs. So knees down was like where but, like, head to toe particularly my lower And so after all of just popped up my doctor told me So I go to the biggest hospital And and I'm probably there for I think it was like 6 All they did and look at me. And they told me Nothing was wrong. And, maybe for the itching. And, like, lotion So that was extremely because I was just And at this point, I was doing Like, be this, like, weird combination like back pain, fever, swollen lymph node, And really that made sense That's the only thing possibly have. So I had already, been like, I literally Like, I know, like in in my gut, And, so I'm kind of just going to like different specialists, and being like, hey, could I have Hodgkin's Like pulling up WebMD? Like literally, And I can put next to And that was when I found because I was like, more than just WebMD And so I found a girl, on the patient story and her, symptoms which is fully Completely from, like, the itching to the swollen lymph node to the low I also had really high inflammation markers. That's not really blood test, but I was tested for under the sun. And so that's just random thing that kind But I would like pull up that story and And there like maybe, like you're young and healthy, like, Even though like, Like female girls, 15 most common to get And yet, like every single doctor was just And so finally, after close to three months of searching my dermatologist her like distant friend who was an infectious Baylor, starting my So I stopped going to At this point because And so I went to this infectious disease I'm tested and everything And she's like, the only thing like, to test is to get your lymph We scheduled After that, removed and biopsied. And within an hour yeah, it's it's And so I got my Pet the cancer was It was on both sides It had spread outside It was on my liver, There was a spot It was really random. But I did get a bone from my pelvis that showed that in all of my bone And so it was like extremely my treatment plan was to avoid chemo. And the original plan for 12 rounds over So twice a month. Every other week I would go do bloodwork and then go into get all of the chemo. There's four kinds. And they would just run them And then once I was And I did that for six There were a couple where it got delayed. And so, it ended up And after I finished my nurse would put called a new lambda which kind of looks like an omni pod But it's, like a little pod that's I think, which And it's put on to go off So 24 hours after I got this was a g CSF shot, and that is like a So that up really fast And so, it made me I but not so much like, stay home Like, go to school Oh. Be careful. And, like, if I wasn't wear a mask or not those shots But those were sometimes worse they just put me in Which was another about being a teenager in the adult hospital the younger you are, the more bone marrow And like, I think it's or something I don't know. This is why And so, it like, stimulates that, type of marrow to make And with my bones it caused But that's more common patients So a lot of my doctors how to handle that, because what they tell older oh, like take a Claritin because it the histamine effect or something For some reason, lowered the bone pain. For older patients. And that just did for me. In each round And so, I was on, like, pain medication which was like, awful. It was so bad. I remember trying to describe it until you feel bone you don't know what It's really just a really odd type of pain. I lost my for sure when, I cut it short almost to like which like to me, oh my gosh, But then I was like, so short. So cut my hair. And then I told myself I don't want to like, I have to, but when it's at the point I would look better Then, I still had So that was my plan. And that happened after my second I went in and, my dad is also bald, and so which was very fun because, like, It's like he's like shades he still has, like, And so he knows his So he shaved my head, but I kind of made it I always saw, online, like, and, like, while shaving Yes, I was sad. I had my moments, the actual experience And so I had a buzz I invited My sister had some of My mom's My brother's friends Like, all of the people we probably had like to watch me Yeah, one. I finished chemo of my senior year and they wanted to to, like, let chemo, and all the things before I got my final So at the end of four days I got my final and that showed that in remission. I remember and it was like and my dad around the kitchen table with the phone And he I expected myself to be more excited I was expecting, like, my parents were like, jumping up and down, But I was kind of oh, okay, cool. Now what? Kind of no, I'm honestly I'm immigration And every time I go for a checkup, everything is clean, it's like a huge But the first time, like, final Pet scan, I was relieved, but not like, as I thought after A really, really close family friend was diagnosed it was just not like Like the, like the outlook not good And so that was a really hard hit I knew what that was. And that was kind of of survivor's through that, he ended up a year I think it And so that hitting I did make a presence And, through that, of friends and a lot of weren't as lucky and a lot of them or relapsed and And like all of those can be definitely and that's like probably one of up until today. And then, like I said, just feeling against it And it's just kind of like whether or not Since it was since it was such a late stage, a bigger chance that than me actually especially the first I don't remember the statistic, but close that it would come back within So like being in that like 20% of being in remission treatment of being in was definitely like a really weird knowing that, like, did exactly what I did And so that was just hard things to think And then, of course, for a while, in a constant just like friends passing away. Seeing passing away and just all of those things I fought and like I lived and I'm doing great, and I have my life they like they don't. And so that was definitely really of like the survivor's My freshman year of year of college Let alone eight months and finishing I had kind of like a raggy mullet Surfer boy. Look going on And that was, like, definitely really The transition wasn't really easy. I ended up For a number of and was just like grieving grieving my old life, have passed and like, Working through a lot And then also, PTSD had come into and just different bringing up just like really, And so those are definitely And like through like survivor's guilt, anxiety, like all of wrapped up and just handed to me, finding you have over I think can really change And even if being able to smile to pick up the phone like if that's the Like, your mental health And so if that means, like going on a walk like calling a friend but just like finding would brighten finding those clinging on to them and knowing that you can do them state of I think it's really just like keeping Yeah, of any aspect and also knowing it's a unique it's not an awesome unique one.