Hello Internet! Welcome to Film Theory, The to kids shows about dogs.Today we're my son's new favorite show, Bluey. For those of digits in the House, Bluey is an animated of a family of dogs named the Heelers. their mum Chilli and their father Bandit. games they play with mom and dad being absolute pretending to be a sheep, a whale, And because it's a show from Australia, Basically what I'm trying to say is that I've now All right, so I got to come clean here. I watch bed and I'll watch, like, another episode or two heartwarming that you just feel good watching it. that means? Me liking a show, plus it having an me having to tear it down with a dark, the Theorist seal of approval. But this time there's a popular fan theory circulating that as the theory goes, humans were somehow dogs evolved to become the dominant species. At first glance, the world of Bluey does here being that it's controlled by dogs. And this in the past with franchises like Cars. But not hypotheses. What do you think this means that we're going to need some evidence. Is there enough evidence to prove that Or is the dog domination actually telling us fictional world? To begin with, let's evidence given for the post-apocalypse 13 Spy Games Bluey's little sister Bingo Notice here that the lyrics of the song are implies that at some point in this universe, distinction between men and dogs. Point number laptops, tablets, phones. This technology the dogs figured out how to make it work, If this technology had truly originated different because dogs aren't naturally bipedal. suggest that the dogs evolved in a way that than developing it for themselves. Point to be transitioning. In the season one episode all the other characters who walk and talk Socks mostly communicates through barking. She sits on all fours. She sometimes even growls that this is just how baby dogs work in this In a Season two episode, we see Bluey and around on two feet and vocalize like humans. going through a transitional period where some are closer in genetic makeup to the bipedal We even see this sort of transitional behavior Speaking of evolving, point number This is important because chocolate is toxic theobromine, which dogs can't metabolize. Again, wouldn't evolve to make and consume chocolate, this is clearly something that humans made first, eventually gained the appropriate genes to army. In season two an entire episode is dedicated Rusty's father is a military man and he's trained drill sergeants and soldiers and privates. This made military structures and the concept of war Rusty and his dad are a breed of dog known as a heroes ever was a kelpie dog named Gunner, who to alert allied forces to approaching Japanese he was able to differentiate between Barking when the Axis powers were coming. As across 60 attempted air raids. In short, not but the dog breeds that were selected by humans to do that after human societies collapsed. And At various points throughout the show we see for leashes in the world around them. If this is would dogs create leashes for themselves? And only possible explanation, according to the left them behind when they became extinct. very day. Overall, there seems to be a lot lot. But before we start breaking down the I needed to go down to the comments and let me Right now I'm working on a magic school bus I could use something new to watch. Thank entertainment binges appreciate the good work that let's break it down, weakest to strongest. First, are being used in this universe. of small children. Guess what other civilization children? Us. Humans. Treating our small, young up is just a touchstone of any civilized society. compelling evidence. In reality, it just makes Speaking of silly things that us elevated humans to us. For instance, the cassava. It's a that contains compounds that break down into ways to prepare the dish so it could be safe the poisonous pufferfish that has to be specially That's another one that some people are just dumb programmed to find ways to use the resources that the dog society of Bluey would figure humans did for our food. Now let's talk about This one is starting to get into some tricky "man", it means that humans existed at some "and his dog". Therefore, the man must be a human and shut case, right? Well, I don't think so. use language, I don't think this is necessarily constantly saying &quot;man&quot; to each other. It's So the lyric that says that one man went to then what would differentiate the "and his dog" someone a dog is just how you refer to your a video where she wishes for a baby.But In the world of Bluey, traditional dog words seem dogs. So in Bingo's song, it's literally "the man" But then what about the fact that the dogs have Honestly, that just isn't feasible. The theory thousands of years later, dogs then evolved world. The fact of the matter is that our human a printed circuit board like the ones it only has a lifespan of 15 to 20 But if these dogs evolved many, many years after would have degraded by the time they figured Same thing. Eventually it'll just go flat and inspired by some human tech? Sure. But are they No, definitely not. Speaking of evolution, post-apocalypse theory goes, Bluey and the copy humans. Except humans are far from the in the episode Flatpack, we watch Bluey and Bingo chain of this world. Yep, that's right. All the right there in a single episode. In it, they and eventually monkeys into cave dogs. This bipedal from their previous form, the monkey. But then why would a dog go bipedal in the natural progression for many advanced animals. two feet as opposed to four because it it's probably the reason why the Bluey-verse another major linchpin for debunking this piece Instead, it's coming from Facebook. Yeah, Honestly, I'm just as surprised as you are. along. Anyway, it's on Facebook that the only available in Australia. So I went undercover And boy, does it tell us a lot. In it, his fellow archeologists. Yeah. In case you Which is funny because dogs dig for bones. wrote the show. It's why I love it. Anyway, in Not only is this a huge reveal, it also gives 4 million years old. But then, wouldn't that No. And for one key reason, plate tectonics. outermost layer or lithosphere is made up of partially molten layer of rock that slowly moves. centimeters. What that means is that bit by bit, shape and will continue to change across time. completely different. But herein lies our big are exactly the same as ours right now. Sleepy Time, Bingo has a dream where she travels exactly the way that it looks right now. after the human apocalypse, the Earth should for as fun as the blue apocalypse theory is, However, I see this internet theory and I raise that this is indeed a separate universe, our universe forever. In the episode and because Bandit's an archeologist, there are there's one in particular that stands out, this This right here, that's a real image from cave painting thought to be made 45,500 copy has itself one key difference: there outright proves that the Bluey-verse parallels there either. There's also an image of Egyptian And it's not just in Bandit's office either. money. The Tooth Fairy leaves Bluey five bucks A corgi in pearls on the front. Now put that bill. And you see the similarities. The corgi for Australia at the time the episode was made. is in our world. This is absolutely a parallel sense, it's also going to change the way that you glossed over this fact earlier, but now it's we saw that monkeys evolved into dogs. evolutionary benefit made monkeys turn into dogs Dogwin! Am I right? Dogwin.. instead of Dar... into dogs? Well, for one, dogs have a better they're also far better at hearing than we are. while humans can only hear up to 20. But dogs have they're able to pinpoint the source of a sound wasn't enough, dogs also have reflexes that are practically watching us move in slow motion. guys are the goodest of boys and why humans a monkey evolve to have these skills over human even these highly developed dogs, right? Well, not and logic similar to how a human toddler does. is something called inferential reasoning, a decision. If you had two cups upside down one with the treat in it, dogs will use that Chimps, meanwhile, will ignore that clue dogs are more intelligent than monkeys. On top expressions than a monkey. So dogs aren't stupid. reasoning and emotional intelligence far more than the bluey post-apocalypse theory is debunked and more perfect world where monkeys didn't evolve truly superior being, highly evolved dogs. world here is truly the darkest timeline. But hey! And hey, if you're in the mood for more dark Dogs, it's a very specific content category, about how Blue from Blue's Clues is secretly don't care about their relative color, check out Patrol and Ryder's secret conspiracy. One final down in the comments below so I can do an episode