This is my land. This is my land. This is my land. if you come for me, I'll destroy you. These men are the pirates Armed with Kalashnikovs they attack the oil plants in Nigeria Their leader is John Togo, Don't think Togo is weak, We're going into combat Kidnapping makes these pirates They attack the oil companies whom they accuse of plundering without paying anything What do you target? My target is the fuel stations, pipelines, the jackets, NNPC, They are my targets. Why? It's because they are the people Why do you say that? They are not sincere. They don't give us what belongs to us. They collaborated with our evil leaders. Are you ready to die for your cause? God has sent me therefore, I will not die. I will live. I will rejoice with them. -Praise the Lord. These are the last images of John Togo. Ten days after we left, the rebel leader and a dozen of his men His death didn't end piracy in Nigeria. On the contrary, A dozen ultra-violent pirate gangs Using powerful speedboats, they storm oil platforms kidnapping and ransoming. How much do you think you could get At least 50 million naira from you. These pirates causing them to lose Lagos, the economic capital of Nigeria, is a booming city grow like mushrooms. Nigeria is the biggest but it's also a country of extremes. Absolute poverty stands next A fortune that is built Nigeria is the El Dorado of African oil. All the big companies are there, With a production Nigeria is the sixth Its GDP is $574 billion. This business employs rich pickings for the pirates. In 2015, they carried out 73 attacks The aim of my trip We arrived at Warri, Here, 70% of the population The life expectancy is 47 years. Here I am in the city of Warri We're driving quite fast because Warri is well-known and a lot of abductions. That's why I have with three armed soldiers on board. They're to stop me from getting kidnapped in a city where this is, Don't come any closer In the center, the armed men They chase off curious passersby Once we found a safe spot, He's my go-between with the pirates. After months of dealings, but there's no chance The meeting is arranged by the river. I need to go with these men They warned me that the army What would be the reaction of the army if they saw me Oh, a very big problem. What can they do to me? You might get arrested. They might arrest you After two hours of navigating we finally see them. A dozen men armed with machine guns. This group of pirates they take whole boats. How many attacks Last year, of course, because we were not pleased. Do you sometimes, Yes, sometimes, so we hijack ships to get money. Usually, how much is it to release a ship? It depends on the ship. We can even say 200 million, bring us 900 million for us. When you keep the members of the cruise, do you keep them on the ship Stop, I've tried for you. End of interview. The leader doesn't want on the taking of hostages. The pirates are unpredictable. It takes several weeks before another gang They are also heavily armed. They travel on high-speed boats, which allows them to escape the army Their leader is renowned for his violence. He's aggressive and points his gun at me, The pirate doesn't trust us and disappears Back in France at EDHEC, I'm not a journalist, but a lecturer. Here I teach management of criminal risk. My pupils are future business leaders. I have to prepare them to deal That's an AK 47, a machine gun, because when you shoot even with that, believe me, it stops. What's the risk? Explosion. An oil tanker that explodes For ten years, I regularly go into the field Did you hear? I struck no less than 15 attacks. Last year we carried out He doesn't get up for less than $100,000. Fifteen attacks: $100,000. Good business, right? That's piracy, Above all, it has a major impact Getting in contact with the pirates is a long and complex process. In the last ten years Over there, I've built up who keep me informed of any attacks, and of the positions I'm back here today of the gang leader I decided to try my luck again. I'm going into the Delta in a speedboat that I saw a few months ago I'm going to try and see if it happens. The problems could come which are incessant at the moment, We're going to try not to get stopped, Two hours later. We are following a speedboat because we have to get around which are everywhere. There, they've stopped, so I don't think it will be long. We arrive at the camp. There's the leader. He's still aggressive. Get out! -Quick, get out! Get out! Get out and get down! -Down before I blow your head off. We're careful not to fall. They are pretty wound up It's not very pleasant. It's okay, apparently, I can go. Move, move, move, move! Move, move, move ahead! Move, move, move, move! Move, come this way. Quickly, hey, give me this. What are you? What is your mission here, my friend? -I want to talk to you, calm down, please. -I want to ask questions. -Just a few questions, okay? That machete was close. Calm down, then. I just want to ask questions. -Don't be scared of me. I want to ask you a few questions, A few questions. -Okay, come inside. Come inside. -Inside, quick. The pirates drink a cocktail They think the mix wards off bad spirits. Okay. What's that? I got it all on camera. Once sprayed with the mixture, I'm allowed to go behind -Can I sit? Just sit there, or you want to sit face-to-face with me? -Yes. Can you tell me who you are? This is Black Devil, -How many guys do you have with you? -They are not all with you this now? I sent some for operation. Which operation? Operation for any expatriate kidnapping -How does it work when you do an attack? These are like 200. Two speedboats attack How many guys do you have aboard Seven per boat, plus the driver, seven men. How do you choose your targets It depends on the kind of security Do you know beforehand if there's security Before you get there, -Okay. Before you come closer, they open fire. -They open fire often? What do you do? When they open fire, -Therefore, sometimes you have casualties? -How many men have you lost so far? For the past five or six years I've lost just one man. Okay. Therefore, you sometimes kill soldiers? Yes, sure. How many security people have you killed? The soldiers I have killed There may be 20 men on the boat, and maybe I kill three or five That is part of my job. Once you have opened the fire, I cease-fire and I climb. -You climb? I go straight to the engine room -The captain? How much do you have on board? &quot;I have one million, Okay, give me. If you don't want to release the money, I blow off your head. Do you target specific nationalities? Yes, like those Indians. We don't go for Indians Even the Filipinos, no, very cheap. We target people like you. I know if I kidnap you, How much do you think you could get At least 50 million naira from you. Which are the most bankable hostages Americans, and the French. How is the ransom paid? -How do you get the cash? I don't use a bank, just the street. Okay. Take the money to a certain point, Don't go with the army, If you do, we are watching you. If you make any move, What do you do with this money? I use it to buy ammunition and speedboats, Since we don't have jobs, You come here to exploit That is the major reason You don't want to employ us, yet you are exploiting us. -Do you have children? Two are in the university and I don't have a job. How do I educate them? How do I feed them? How do I pay my house rent? Anybody... Any expatriate companies if you don't settle with us, you won't operate. I swear to God, Are you okay? It's okay. They've caught a monkey. That's their kitchen, apparently. Now I'm on the group leader's boat We're going to a spot because there are many army patrols. We're not going to hang around I hope they stay in those positions. The pirates come from little villages Communities like these, thousands of people live here No toilet, no tent, no water, Okay. Here there are no doctors -Is he sick? He's seriously sick. This old man Nearby, the oil company Agip None of the villagers work there. -Come in. I am met by the community chief. You're welcome, sir. Okay. -Thank you. -Thank you so much. How many people are in the room now? At least 50. I believe we're more than 50. What are the living conditions First, if I may say, but I believe we have no benefit from it. Up till now, we have no employment. Nothing. They do not employ anybody Not at all. At this Agip plant close to here? Yes, we only do fishing. -You do fishing? However, over the years there are less fish in the river What do you think -What is your opinion about this? Formally, they intimidate us and don't have certificates, but thank God Some are undergraduates. However, after your years in school, one has no work to do. What do you think will come to your mind? I can't go to the river If you have nowhere to go, If you die there, Joblessness leads to this sea piracy. In Nigeria, expatriates live Oil companies have to invest massively Exceptionally, I'm allowed to film on an oil platform. The platform is 150 kilometers One hundred and sixty expatriates To ensure their safety, two boats like this one On board, around work under a Frenchman's command. Thanks, goodbye, bon voyage. Julien is a former commando He has to remain anonymous. We're out at sea It's real and it can't get any more real. Every week we receive reports There are two or three attacks per week. It's real. It's not a question it's when there will be another attack. His team is made up often from emerging countries. They are only ones The captain is Mexican. I've been attacked before the Jascon 24. When did it happen? On 23rd January, this year. One of the Navy died. -Do they shoot a lot when they attack? Did you tell your family about the attack? Yes. -How many children do you have? What does your wife say She told me that they do not want The salary is better, The best weapon against the pirates When running at full speed, it can follow their speedboats Julien invites me on board. Day and night, What caliber of weapon Kalashnikov fire is not a problem. Now it can take some 12.7 slugs As soon as there's contact, and there'll be results, Results mean deaths. The pirates mostly attack at night, At night we close everything, We have Nigerian Navy fusiliers Here we're far from the coast, they need to use quite a big boat that will definitely Then they'll release two which are more difficult to see because they're low and made of wood. That's why everything is turned off. That night, there was no attack. These security measures cost For this rig, it's $1 million per month. However, in this country, the oil industry faces Twenty percent of the oil is stolen by thousands of traffickers. This piracy has a name: bunkering. This pipeline belongs to Shell. It's one of thousands of pipelines Traffickers connect to it It's then stored in these boats, -What is inside? -Is this fixed to the main well? The oil is then pumped to be refined into fuel, Here we are in a quite big There are a dozen bunkerers which has six units like this one, each with a surface area The vapors from the burning oil I have trouble breathing. This man is going to explain from the crude oil He sets a fire under a ton of crude oil. This is the way we start it. This will keep on heating the tank. Within two, three, or four hours, it will result to the fuel with smoke and gas. Water is inside. This process separates the petrol It evaporates and travels then through several meters of pipes At the other end, diesel flows. In total, 300,000 barrels A parallel industry With their feet in petrol and clothing they are frequently victims of explosions. A few weeks later, The other disaster is ecological. Here are the effects this has on nature. You get the feeling but in fact, not at all. It's the oil vapors that kill them. Of course, all this runs into the river. There are refineries like this one At night, these illegal refineries However, the military turns a blind eye. The question we have to ask is how is it possible up to 30 or 40 boats in an area that has a high density The answer is simple: corruption. According to the NGO Nigeria is one of the most It holds the 136th place that the organization monitors. In Berlin, at the NGO's headquarters, the director for Africa explains right up to the highest levels of state. Senior politicians divert resources that are earmarked such as education, To fulfill their pockets so to speak This creates an atmosphere of impunity and leads to widespread corruption When a country reaches this level unfortunately, it is not surprising to see the Nigerian Military Authorities to let them work in complete freedom. We find it hard to believe however cunning they may be, can be stronger There is certainly some collusion who should be stopping them and that likely means Corruption allows pirates by injecting a strong anesthetic, For two years, In this context, the cost of piracy has become unbearable Some have started to leave Nigeria. In East Africa, in Somalia, pirates threaten a cornerstone Today, 80% of goods Somalia is located linking Europe to Asia. Eighteen thousand ships In ten years, Somalian pirates and kidnapped 700 sailors. Pirates have crossed into new territories This is the boat that is in the hands We learned a few hours ago have been boarded and hijacked by pirates. These pirates approach the vessel Armed with Kalashnikovs, and take the sailors hostage. Super tankers, luxury ships, none of the 20,000 boats that travel After 25 years of civil war, In the south, the Islamic al-Shabab militia In the north, the territory is divided controlled by tribal chiefs. The region of Galmudug Many attacks leave Going there is not without risk, The last two foreigners were a French man They both worked for the United Nations. They had come to Somalia, They got off the plane when they were both killed After three years of negotiations I arrived in Galkayo. It's impossible to come here On the tarmac, I am met For my protection, armed with Kalashnikovs In this region, in just a few minutes. My convoy heads The road is long and dangerous. The journey will take eight hours. [French spoken audio] We are currently heading Hobyo is one of the places I'm going to try and understand and see what happens, and maybe meet some people We have 250 kilometers of trails We should arrive in Hobyo To keep going, the men chew khat, In the early morning, the phone rings. The vice governor We've heard something about Hobyo. A boat is getting close, Before the men get into position, I want you to take a look at the pirates Okay, go and check on the situation. I'll leave you to it. We've reached Hobyo pretty quickly because the group I'm with that there's a boat [French spoken audio] It may be a boat and is being taken to the Hobyo coast. What do you suspect? It can be anything. It can be a broken or hijacked boat. My convoy speeds up to reach Hobyo We arrive at the top of the village. From here, we can see A cargo ship has stopped It's an Iranian boat. It has been attacked I see jeeps with armed men, without a doubt, the pirates. At the same moment, Ten minutes later, it comes back to shore. Hostages are surely on board. The vice governor Send two cars immediately Yes, but where to? Our men are already there [Somali spoken audio] Hijacking! The boat has been hijacked. It's confirmed that it's an act of piracy. I'm going to the beach in a pickup The men are a bit on edge. Where is it? Over there! We're going to the village of Hobyo. It looks pretty quiet. There are children in the streets, but 200 meters away, We arrive on the beach The governor's soldiers but they don't attack the pirates. Even though they are only I recognized their pickups straight away. They belong to Afweyne, It's him who, in 2008, the biggest oil tanker in the world, a Ukrainian cargo ship and tons of Kalashnikovs. In 2013, Afweyne I see that his men Against all expectations, the pirates' pickups without being stopped Instead, the soldiers stopped the pirate's foot soldiers. They come to transport the hostages. In their boat, a grappling hook, Initially, these fishermen [Somali spoken audio] How many pirates? Was it the red car? Yes, the red car. How many hostages did he take? Two, the captain and the chief engineer. Were they forced to go on the boat? [Somali spoken audio] Yes, they forced them. They forced them to go. What color were the hostages? They look like Arabs. Were they violent with the hostages? Yes. The vice governor He orders his men to arrest him. [Somali spoken audio] The fisherman On the contrary, he even threatens them. The guy with the shirt is saying [Somali spoken audio] The fisherman claims To my great surprise, A few minutes later, as if nothing had happened. The same afternoon, the governor summons the man behind Here he is. It's not a time for confrontation From the start, the pirate claims [Somali spoken audio] The talks last four hours and it's the pirates [Somali spoken audio] Finally, the man behind the kidnapping This scene explains everything The authorities have no power Two weeks later, the ship owner to get back the cargo ship For me, it's time to leave Hobyo. As a Westerner, I'm also prey. We leave the fishermen's village Here we are on the trail returning to Galkayo We left Hobyo this morning because I'd been seen Therefore, it was unwise as a foreigner, In Somalia, The next day at Galkayo Airport, the release of hostages. They arrive in 4x4s. Eleven sailors, which had been hijacked by pirates Can you explain On 26 November 2010, in the Indian Ocean. Their demand was 20 million. After that, they told the owner that if they didn't increase the money, The owner was no able and they shot one Indian three times. Then they hit us and tortured us. We had to contact our families How long was the detention We stayed in Somalia Thank God I am alive, and hopefully, A plane from the UN arrives on the tarmac. Two envoys from the organization Usually, it is the shipping company but as they didn't want to, -Finally. -I know, we have spoken on the phone. I'm very glad. I'm so glad to get you back. Thank you so much for all your efforts. -We'll not forget your efforts. Did you fear to die? We were tortured for the longest time. How did they torture you? What did they do to you to torture you? They tied my hands and hit me. They hung me by the leg and pressured me many times. In total, five hostages We need to separate... The day isn't over. Exceptionally, I witness Three Kenyans, two men and a woman, kidnapped in the bush Barely six hours ago, where he has spent the last two years. We were kept under a tree. That was our shelter. It was a wilderness, plain land, which was sandy. When there's too much wind, the sand blows. At night, you have to expect snakes, The people don't care. The people don't care. They weren't being held on the moon, but in the vicinity of the village However, there were people around. The people there The reason is because they know They know that those hostages and the villages Piracy is the economy in these regions. We have to understand that but equally, this piracy, of the world economy. That's because these people are based in the Indian Ocean. At piracy's height in January 2011, and 736 hostages. For the ship owners, the financial consequences In Paris, I met with the director representing French Shipping. Hello, welcome The impact of piracy has been calculated In 2012, the total cost of piracy is estimated to be nearly $6 billion. In this, six billion are notable premiums insurance premiums, insurance is compulsory. Insurance particularly There are also costs due to the protection For example, with automatic water jets to prevent Finally, there's the cost associated That's the military or private guards Faced with the scale of these attacks, the European Union the Atalanta Force, The pirate is still following, Warships, planes, that is one and a half times As well as the European forces, but also a fleet of warships from Russia, amongst others. In eight years, attacks by pirates The operation is a success, Three hundred million dollars per year a necessary expenditure for as long as the problem The causes of piracy are still there. The Somalian state is still absent There are no police, no armed forces, and even fewer Navy forces Today the message is, &quot;Be careful, the causes of the illness &quot;we have to be on our guard.&quot; When we talk about piracy, we can think that at its origins there is the economic motivation This economic motivation when certain political conditions Corruption and weakness of the state. In a world and the power of states is decreasing, Already there are attacks in South America where 161 acts of piracy It's there I'll need to go of this criminal business.