- Why do horns and musical instruments have this flared shape? To answer this question, about a year ago, I decided I would take this, And I've never actually for my channel before. So as usual, we decided to make a to see what we could that would come from So we started by creating a plaster mold with the right curvature. Then you cover that with a gel coat, and then we put three layers of fiberglass and polyester resin. And then when you pop it out of the mold, you're left with this. We were immediately struck something really special about this shape. So I'm gonna switch over from my lav mic to my shotgun mic for this demo. Here's my voice normal. Here's my voice with the tube to show that there's more going on here than just focusing the And then here's my voice using the horn. You can even hear me But if I was without you can't really hear it. So this was proof that the had a significant effect on But I still wasn't sure why. So now it's time to really scale things up to the big monster horn, which we did by applying all on the prototype. And then we headed to the we could find on Google (upbeat music) (upbeat music continues) (upbeat music continues) (upbeat music continues) - [Dan] Can you hear me? Hello, over there. - It feels like you're As you know, the base of the for creating all the sound. So to see what's inside, I thought it was only appropriate to open it with my from the popular YouTube And it turns out it's pretty simple. The key is this thin metal So the air comes in here at 100 PSI and passes around this that it causes it to vibrate which causes a corresponding pressure wave to shoot out here and down So after a few hours, and it was the moment of truth. Since after eight months, none of us had actually And Lincoln hadn't even seen the thing because we made him wait in the car. This is the big reveal. You ready? - Yeah. - One, two, here it is. Is that pretty loud? - Wow! That's so cool! - Is that pretty good? - This actually isn't the horn. It's that. - Oh. Now you can look. - Oh, my! - But before we fire it, we need to first talk and what I eventually learned about why horns have that curved shape. Let's say this jello block represents a volume of air molecules. If that horn diaphragm hits there's a chain reaction crashing into each other until finally, you see movement on the other And this is where your eardrum is. So it moves back and as the horn diaphragm, because of all of these collisions of the jello molecules in between. This is called a pressure wave and it's how sound travels through air. And so if the horn diaphragm at a high frequency, or very frequently, our brain decodes that as a high pitch. But if the crashes are or less frequently, then our brain decodes Okay, but why the curvy horn shape? Well, that has to do with something called impedance matching. Basically, the horn diaphragm And it pushes against the air, which doesn't offer much resistance. It's not very effective, like trying to break a piece So without the curvy horn portion, as the diaphragm moves back and forth, it interfaces with the You can still see the jello's just not that much because and weak over this small of an area. So to have a better you put a big curvy shape You can see now your eardrum is moving back and forth because the interface is so much better. So it sounds louder with a curved horn, not because you're amplifying the sound, but because you're conserving the sound. This makes sense, because amplifying means you're and there's no battery or plugs at the curved section of a horn. It's passive. So by impedance matching, you give yourself a much larger area to push against all the air at the outlet, which makes for a more of molecules crashing into your eardrum. And now the horn. Is that pretty loud? - Wow! That's so cool! - Is that pretty good? - This actually isn't horn. It's that. - Oh. Now you can look. - Oh, my! (horn honking) - What? - Oh my gosh! This is like eight months of work. That's the first time And that's behind the horn. - I could feel the vibrations. - Yeah! - We're not even in front of the thing. - We're gonna go see what All right. So this is, we're about two football We have no idea how loud All right, Ken, fire the normal air horn. (airhorn honking) Yeah, we could hear it. 'Cause you could hear it decently well. - All right, firing. (group laughing) - So for our second test, And you can barely see All right, Ken, fire. (horn honking) - No! - We can still completely hear it. - Yes! - I mean, you could hardly But it's still super loud. So let's just drive. - All right, let's go. So from a satellite view, Here was the first spot, And then here was the third spot. Two and a half miles away. Okay. So the horn is now super far away. I literally can't see - It's so far away. I can barely see it. It's right at the crest of the hill. There's a little tiny - We're gonna do an experiment, and we're gonna test the speed of sound. We should hear it on this walkie-talkie. And then some amount of time later, we might be able to hear Lincoln's gonna measure and then we should be able what the speed of sound is. We're ready when you are. - [Ken] Okay. I'm ready. (horn honking) - Wait for it. (horn honking) That's crazy! How long? It took 11 seconds for the - We can still hear it so clearly. - It's so clear! Like I feel like we could Think about what this means. It took an unbroken chain of two and a half miles of air molecules, 11 seconds to all collide with each other until they made it all the way down here and bumped into the air which then bumped into our eardrums. - [Lincoln] Hi! Wait, what if I scream? (Lincoln screaming) - [Mark] So the sun but before we went home, we wanted to try and break some glass. And if you want to break glass with what is essentially the trick is to find out You actually know all about this if you've ever used one of these. I can make Eliza go really Now, if I apply that it doesn't do very much. It's not fun, huh? No, it's not fun. But if I apply that of the natural frequency of the swing, those little pushes add to each other. - Go higher, Mark Rova! - And so in this case, the resonant frequency increased our fun. But if engineers don't take it could lead to disaster, such as when wind gusts destroyed the Tacoma Narrows bridge. It's also why soldiers when crossing a bridge. So if you measure the natural with an accelerometer like this, then you just need to at that exact frequency, Or you can just change of the glass to match your horn by adding weights in the right spot. (glass shattering) (upbeat music) - Go higher, Mark Rova! - You're so fun!