I'm wearing the real Team USA Olympic uniforms we're going to cut it in half because what's happening in sports right now. The question is, actually CHEATING? There's a ton of cool gear too good, like swimsuits that make a swimmer's body hands too grippy, or bats that let a player a runner too freaking fast. They call it &quot;tech doping,&quot; advantage. In this video, I'm going to show you Olympics... oh that's grippy... and the cutting edge of what's allowed. You might be thinking, &quot;hold But we don't run barefoot anymore. We don't swim keeps getting better, pushing forward what humans want to figure out. This debate is about way technology pushes humans forward and it's up video is about that question. Let me show you MICHAEL PHELPS: &quot;I am wearing the fastest &quot;the fastest suits in the world&quot; &quot;it is cheating&quot; &quot;a weekend that changed distance shoes&quot; &quot;fueling new controversy over the suits the Today I'm at Nike's test lab in Oregon most controversial sports equipment. But first, if from sports, how would you do it? Here's where to to athletes or fans or both? This is the big reason hardware too. For example, in Major League Baseball to use wooden ones because aluminum would allow people on the field or hurt people in the stands. it might not be allowed. But most of the cool danger, it just makes athletes better. So the next the sport? But how do you define that exactly? So it gets broken up into smaller questions like, holders? Does it artificially enhance a player's decide what you think is right before I tell you in 1972. Do you notice anything missing? Nobody's allowed them. You see early adopters start to use chart showing swimming records by year. That's would say allowing goggles was a good idea In 2008, Speedo collaborated with NASA to The fabric mimicked shark skin with these little these panels that sucked swimmers bodies into a that the way it trapped air made swimmers it was clear this new tech was helping swimmers nobody thought was possible. It was awesome. You more gold medals than any human had ever won in a Is that fair? This new suit made the swimming the US team said the records shouldn't count. Within a year, the swimming governing body voted to are wearing suits made with only textile fabrics mixed about that! We can't see well underwater goggles are allowed and these swimsuits aren't there's a line somewhere. It's just not always shooting... okay or not okay? If you said okay, the regulators agree allowed to wear prescription lenses. They can it. Or how about this: Sticky glue that makes it The NFL said not okay but grippy gloves are fine. questions because they get it what we think the of course it's so messy but the messiest of record that was supposed to be Welcome to Nike's test lab! I'm at Nike to answer a question I've I watched Eliud Kipchoge become the first person is 4 minutes and 35 seconds per mile for 26.2 miles! This was supposed to be impossible but record in professional running all eyes turned built to make him run faster. In fact, studies time go 2 to 3% faster than the next fastest shoe threatened the Integrity of the sport. But of running shoes you'll see that over the last Early running shoes looked like this. They're lot faster in basically any running shoe today. So Let me show you the answer. This is the newest to cut it open. So this is the successor of what It's a culmination of all kinds of technological to destroy it.&quot; There's no chance I can put it finger, it's my fault. &quot;Uh Lindsay what do you think?&quot; her fault...&quot; If I cut my finger off, I'm saying it this is fine, come on it's fine, it'll be fine, cut this shoe in half, let me tell you about better: Shopify. Shopify is a commerce platform They have a drag and drop store editor that makes Shopify. And you can sell things across social but I'd want to be able to reach you in other across borders with local payment methods and they also just launched Shopify Magic which are AI you transform your images by removing or adding descriptions for your store. I made some hats and and I keep getting comments from people who'd want could manufacture them and if I do, I'd sell them You have the most powerful tools for growing and things online easy. If you want a free trial, click Woooo! Look at this! Lots of companies now make their own version of a sports forever, but how exactly? At a high level, upper, which holds your foot, the outsole, which determines how much of the energy that a runner them into their next stride. This is called energy super shoe specifically maximized energy return foam and a carbon fiber plate that acts like a the shoe looks like this right here. They even Before super shoes, a good energy return rate was of the runner's energy that they get to reuse. feels like but to do it Nike didn't just give USA Olympic uniforms. So I'm wearing this and this I feel awesome. Let's do this. They analyzed my running style, they showed me how they made me run in 95deg heat at 70% humidity. in here 'cause they might fog up. What speed would fast enough to give you some real information... look at you, thumbs up means I can go a little bit put me in coach! Yeah I did not fully understand &quot;She wants to go as fast I feel the energy return, it feels When Super Shoes were introduced, just like to crush world records. Marathon times saw the complaining that the shoes were giving runners All the energy has to come from the runner, and a point where I can't talk casually anymore. &quot;She's minutes. The world's best marathoners can run in this plus hours.&quot; &quot;If you're up for it, we'll have you go fun right?&quot; That was great. &quot;You got good sweat going Look at this. So running shoes that make you faster: the middle. They tried to restrict how much energy 40 mm foam height limit and saying shoes can't shoes barely fit these requirements but they were a rule saying that all shoes had to be available they were used in competition. These rules were wasn't happy about it. They issued a statement I asked the head of Nike's sport research lab time and do you still feel that way now? &quot;There and and worrying about stifling innovation. keep to keep pushing forward. Our goal is not by putting fans behind them and pushing them down really the key. It's all about pushing the human debate about technology in sports: What if the body? You might remember this guy, Oscar Pistorius. the Olympics with these. running blades. This was what's fair and what's not in sports. You might not for the Olympics 8 years after Pistorius but the fifth fastest time in the world against Olympic Games and then I was abruptly stopped. Arbitration of Sport...&quot; The Olympics had allowed rules. Should running blades be allowed? If you let correct a disability that they have, aren't what's a correction and what's an enhancement? blades to see the spring compression to see like the prosthetic legs and how does that compare found that Blake's prosthetic legs made him no but they did make him worse at accelerating and that prosthetics are lighter and they don't like a tossup but then... &quot;the one thing that rule, max allowable standing height.&quot; The Olympics decided Blake couldn't compete because his blades Blake was born without the bottom part of his legs. legs. They calculated it using measurements what his height would theoretically have been based on only small studies of white and Asian men is tricky. Most people's wingspan is roughly their Ines taller than he is. That's part of what makes that're set, we're sorry Blake, but you have to drop is not the same as changing in your swimsuit. 5'9 so I'll go reach or I'll go run or my back question is, what's fair and what's not fair? If glasses you wouldn't regulate that. Now I could try Really the conversation that we're talking about good people on blades will actually outperform &quot;I think yeah. I think that's the It wasn't me trying to compete. It was the idea open up. I don't agree with it but I understand.&quot; We have come so far in Today we have better nutrition and training and The whole point of technology is to make people capable, to make things that we never thought were exactly in what direction technology pushes us is far beyond sports. &quot;Should we regulate it should we it?&quot; &quot;I think it's wrong to stop. I think it's you to sport. It's unethical to stop inventing And personally I can't wait to see [Wait for it...] Welcome to Nike's test lab... That's gonna be the ending!