Welcome back to our alien tour of what prehistoric Earth might have looked For those just tuning in, our premise are visiting Earth at various stages In part one, our alien voyagers covered a big of it. They saw the formation of the planet - a the emergence of the first organisms, and its modern atmosphere. They swung by in the species diversity across our planet, and landed in In part two, our alien scientists came back animals that roamed our then-flourishing, Supersaurus gave them a scare, while the with its playful and social disposition, Today, they revisit Earth, some oblivious to the changes that have occurred I'm Alex McColgan and you're watching of the most famous events of Earth's We'll examine the two leading theories and what kind of impact it had on the For the last tens of millions of years, they'd seen a lush, green world run by the Let's imagine our alien explorers decide to world on a certain day, 66 million years ago. running low on Helium-3, and swing by Jupiter to won't be able to take off again once they land on When they return the next day, they positioning system. They must have made covered in soot they're looking at is the Our alien friends are flabbergasted. What The Earth they came back to is tsunamis up to one kilometer high, A new reality has set in, one that would consume To find out what happened, let's our human scientists have to say on the matter. In the 1980s, two human scientists made a huge chemical element called iridium in the geological disappeared from the fossil record - also known Not only that but this specific iridium ring in samples taken from around the world. It amount of iridium all over the Earth's crust The curious thing is that iridium on Earth. And these rock layers 200 times the amount of iridium Can you guess where iridium But if such a catastrophically large it would leave behind a crater Well, just a few years later, the Known today as the Chicxulub crater, it lies Mexico and spans a whopping 200 km. After some crater as being about 66 million years old - K-Pg boundary, and the disappearance Another core piece of evidence that supports the They've been found in abundance in several places, coming from North Dakota, USA. Researchers burned tree trunks, conifer branches, mammals, of a Triceratops all frozen in time together - seen such a collection of diverse organisms in And in and among all the fossils, were countless that they're actually pieces of molten earth crust the atmosphere, they cooled into natural glass and at speeds of 160 - 300 km per hour. And remember, So, let's gather this evidence together and what could have happened to Earth As our extra-terrestrial explorers turned an asteroid accelerating toward the against the blackness of space. About 10-15km makes contact just off the shore of the This releases an insane amount of energy all at nuclear weapons at the same time. This was no way it went unnoticed, even by animals on the At the impact site, the thermal radiation burns contact from the asteroid makes earth's crust pebble has been dropped in, leaving behind a This causes a chain reaction hundreds of metres high, as the ocean Meanwhile, trillions of metric tons of debris, explodes up into the atmosphere. Some of this high in the atmosphere, coalesce into tektites. And inevitably, what goes up, must come down. For about 15 minutes following the initial storm of fire-rain. Falling debris heats passes through Earth's atmosphere. This sets the Vapourised material that such as silicate dust from rocks, along with unbelievable amounts of soot and If you're breathing a sigh of relief, the other side of the planet, it's never the actual impact that leads to The build-up of gases and particle debris plunging the planet into an impact With no sun, plants are unable to photosynthesise, and both terrestrial and Earth is a totally apocalyptic version of its former glory. No wonder our alien The impact this would have had on animals species are wiped out forever, making this in Earth's history - second only to the All the animals that exist on Earth today are Others were not so lucky. Being large You need lots of food, lots of space, and marine dinosaurs suffered greatly A small sliver of avian dinosaurs through the evolutionary bottleneck still roam the Earth today through When we think birds, we think beaks. But back of different wonderful variations that we've some didn't. Some had teeth, some didn't. While it survival of an entire family line, it sure seems having a beak stacked the odds in your favour. they could dig out seeds from the ground Toward the end of the Cretaceous, beaked diet than their non-beaked cousins. when rations were scarce. After all, being a good idea. Having enough force in the and enough flight stamina to gather food over Some species of mammal also managed to push smaller than 10cm survived, as they could insulated from lower global temperatures. food to survive. The platypus is an example survived the K-Pg extinction, Turtles also fared surprisingly well About 80% of the known turtle species as did crocodiles. While we can't be 100% like beaked birds, have highly diverse food for more than a year thanks to their Following the catastrophe, repopulation alien scientists were to fly over they'd already see flourishing new ecosystems Maybe it was for the best that our alien to witness the apocalypse firsthand. our alien friends are not convinced this is the sceptics. Just because the evidence paints one Indeed, that is the exact conundrum While many human scientists hold firmly to Let's rewind the tape and re-examine the evidence. The initial clue that started all this asteroid is present in asteroids, it is also present This gives weight to another popular eruptions could be the culprit behind the the world would still be covered by a blanket of and the sun would be blocked out for and total ecosystem collapse. And our iridium The effects are largely the same. The is an asteroid, or volcanoes to blame? activity during the late Cretaceous Researchers say that the presence of flood five mass extinctions - including Flood basalts are left behind rapidly flooded with lava. They leave behind &quot;traps&quot;. The Great Permian extinction video was triggered by volcanic eruptions Some scientists think the same thing its fingerprints in the Deccan Traps in region was highly active at the time explosion could have had far-reaching global toxic sulfur and carbon dioxide gases - causing a Indeed, supercomputer simulations have shown that flood basalt events and mass extinction However, some scientists don't think it is research is trying to reconcile a &quot;both-and&quot; of the asteroid and the subsequent earthquakes taking it over the lethal threshold But the extent to which each event I hope this exploration of possible theories is they've seen Earth in enough of its forms to know transience. Earth won't be a ball of firey rain time before life springs back up again. Who Thanks for watching! I hope you enjoyed this Are you interested in learning more about parts of Earth's history would you visit if Finding the underlying hores of things can to Earth history but also to the behaviors weighing us down have you ever wondered how a paid partnership with betterhelp an online therapy therapists who can help you on the path towards you session you'll be asked about your life relationships are but you'll also get the chance and experience not every therapist is the right not quite clicking with your therapist you helps platform if you feel that therapy might betterhelp a try by scanning our QR code or the description below doing so gets you a 10% Thank you for watching if you like this video A big thanks to my patrons and members. added to the end of every Astrum All the best and see you next time.