Nickelodeon has always been a hotspot for Squarepants and The Fairly Oddparents standing Even lesser known shows like Doug and The years later. Throughout the years, the network has blessed But for every show, there has to be an opposing some way, and Nick cartoons are no exceptions. But, which villains are the most vile? That is what we are asking today. But before we go any further, we gotta lay Firstly, there are many kinds of Nick shows are just focusing on the main Nicktoons lineup, Secondly, the villain must be introduced in However, thirdly, if the villain of the show after the show aired, then their deeds on overall morality. With da rules out of the way, I'm Kyle from Villains, evil to most evil. As usual, we'll be starting with the least the most evil. Up first, for our least evil villain: We have Helga G. Pataki. Hailing from Hey Arnold, this schoolyard bully punching anyone she doesn't like, including On the surface, that's all she seems to she is not all that bad. Her problems seem to come forth from a neglectful about her and focuses more on her sister, On top of that, her mother couldn't be a she had the words "I'm drunk" tattooed She really didn't receive any forms of positive from the rain and complimented her pink bow. This sets off her obsession with Arnold, and shrine she has of him. However, after being mocked by others for of action was to toughen up and push back. This doesn't excuse her actions per say, this. Besides, she does do a good amount of good out of being used by Summer in "Summer Love" giving up her treasured shoes to help her and even helping Arnold save the town in the What puts her this low is the second movie, see his parents again and helping him escape locket with Arnold's own face in it to stop In the end, despite what it may seem at first Movie; "I think your heart... is more pure Our second "bad guy but not really" goes While she did appear in the film for a bit, the role of the main antagonist, so she counts In comparison to Dag's cruel and demented Ben, all Nora really wants to do is to expose Of course, as the animals fear the fact that experimented on, their fears of her are definitely However, let's consider this from her point The poor old woman is constantly teased and ends up in a mental hospital thanks to their Mrs. Beady". Not only that, but she really isn't intent does her schemes in ways that won't hurt It is certainly hard to blame her, especially with the animals, and even befriend them until forgot everything, as seen in "Beady And She may be rough at times, but really, with hard to blame her. Now moving onto people that try to be bullies tyrant, Angelica Pickles. Considering her age, it may be quite easy She is just a standard preschool bully towards sweets and lying to them, like with her pretending the babies to give her sweets, to tricking her lemonade stand business in "Angelica's And her constant rivalry with Susie. She also isn't above manipulating parents "Angelica Orders Out" to trick her father take out. However, she is still, just a toddler herself; Her schemes never really do any lasting harm She also does have her own morality, as she in "Rugrats In Paris", and steps in to Kid In Town". She does indeed care for the babies deep down, She may be a villain, but she is still just Fourth place belongs to The Greaser Dogs from These 3 alley dogs live on the streets and physically assaulting whoever they can, namely Cliff is the short tempered leader, more than he sees as different. He did try to go straight once in "Beware only for it to not stick in the end. Well; at least there was an attempt. And hey, when he isn't pounding CatDog, bad. Shriek is the female of the group. Originally from a rich family, her demanding her desire a new life, leading her to the She promises to only hurt Cat whenever they on Dog. Even then, she still has been shown to be Considering how Cat has a crush on her and it's safe to say that she is at least more Finally, there's the nicest of the group, He may look dumb, but he's probably the as well as a cook for the group when making In "The Great Parent Mystery", he actually and dog dad and being part cat. Heck, in "All You Need is Lube", Lube get a tick off of him, even leaving the Greasers. Overall, while they are brash and harmful than the last, letting them enjoy a low spot Next up, we have the much hated show, Planet In comparison to other villains on this list, position. He is the self declared enemy to Sheen, who wants to expose Sheen for the idiot he is. It's hard to feel bad for the guy, considering on the way into Zeenu, and that Sheen doesn't is. Heck, Sheen even has the audacity to say that So, if he is rather justified in hating Sheen, Well, he is rather eager to get Sheen killed From setting up Sheen to face off against Cute", to setting up a big and elaborate for Sheen in "Act One; Sheen One". And don't forget, Sheen is still just a Plus, aside from the pilot, Sheen really doesn't invite him to a house party in "The Boy He may have his reasons for hating Sheen, trying to kill, and he crossed it. That said, it is hard to blame him for the Up next, we have the main villain of Rocket As Twister's brother, there is bound to With his own gang of Pi, Sputz, and Animal, The two often get into competition with each than not. That being said, he still does have some love to hurt him as he is the only one allowed if it means helping Twister, like making sure to see in "The Great Sandcastle Race". Also filling in for Otto's team when he compete... like when Otto broke his leg, or tournament. While he still is occasionally a caring brother Up next, we have Fanboy and Chum Chum's As the runner of their favorite store with they often end up crossing paths, and more This Frosty Mart worker is just as cold as He cares more about his Chimp Chomp machine willing to punch whoever he wants for fun. Even though he is 20 years old, he has no kids, even enjoying "delivering knuckle And when punching doesn't work, like in tried to punch Fanboy's plastic bubble, or even take advantage of their kindness by vulnerable. The only times where he is somewhat friendly using them to help find a monster in "Monster Master". If he is only friendly when either causing then it is pretty safe to say that this is We can't forget Ed Bighead of Rocko's He serves as the main antagonist for Rocko, The guy has his own team of scientists dedicated and his friends underneath his house as seen His hatred for him extends so much that even Fever" with Rocko allowing the Bigheads is that he's sharing a cabin and tries to That said, what ultimately saves Ed from going "Static Cling", with him eventually making his son, now daughter, Rachael, formerly Ralph, Ed even ends up helping Rocko accept that While it is nice to see amends being made; he was about killing off our favorite wallaby. Another early 90's character, we have Bill Originally starting out on Nick then moving due to how many people still see Doug as a He's the richest man in Bluffington, and around. He's able to rig a contest just so a school his money to pay cops to do whatever he wants. The highlight of his villainy is in "Doug's of Doug and all of his family nightmares, dog, Porkchop. This was all for Porkchop biting his daughter into some thin ice. Bill responded by being sent to the meanest do so, publicly shaming Doug and his family Porkchop killed off by rigging the trial against His nastiest role however comes from "Doug's In an attempt to keep the fact that he dumps to kill the harmless mutated lizard that came kids into keeping it a secret. He may be the CEO of Bluffington, but saying For our next entry, we have to go low...as Plankton. The owner of the failure known as the Chum Mr. Krabs in their youth, and even teamed success, putting it nicely. The food was so bad it flat out killed Old different versions of Old Man Jenkins. While Mr. Krabs felt bad about it, Plankton about the formula would lead them to split enemies. He has since been a constant visitor to the to buy it, but to steal the formula for it. These schemes range from faking being Spongebob's to go on a freezing tundra race to leave the the formula, and even tricking Mr. Krabs into a day. His worst deed however is his deadliest plan; Starting with him stealing Neptune's Crown, to death by having him be frozen by King Neptune, residence of Bikini Bottom, turning them into He may be small, but he sure is effective That said, what puts him lower than more vicious people in his life that he does care about; called Spot, and his son, Chip Plankton II. With Karen, it is with him confessing that Spongebob movie, and saving her life in Karen With Spot, it's adopting him and treating Pet". With Chip, it's growing to like him after He even ends up helping Mr. Krabs get his Of Water just because he promised him. Overall, despite what he is capable of doing, Up next we have the ever forgetful professor, Once a student of Ms. Fowl's class, he was if not for one major flaw; he just can't own sentences. After leaving school after not finishing his mad scientist he is today; or he would be his inventions. Instead, he just kidnaps Jimmy to force him With these inventions complete, he truly becomes him take over Retroville, flat out melting as he sees fit during "Jimmy Timmy Power That said, the professor does have his own Gorgeous, and teaching her the ropes of being own buffoonish nature. Just be thankful that he is just as forgetful There really isn't more evil than someone finish editing the script later. Next we have the father of a superhero, Puma His exact alignment is as hard to pin down "Crazy Puma" would have. He is the feared villain of Miracle City, able to stop him being his own son, Rodolfo As the grandfather of the easily influenced own path in life, he wants him to become a He may be retired as of now, but he still if the mood strikes. He is a family man however, and still loves whatever path he chooses to go down, good This morality forces him to end up helping Heck, in the series finale, &quot;No Boots, No belt, and after learning how to control it, the family, and even became celebrated as Overall, while he certainly does have a couple amount of spring cleaning in there as well. He may be proud to be a villain, but he's Unlucky number 13 belongs to the villainous The big bad of T.U.F.F. Puppy, this rodent of unusual size is the or DOOM. As the main villain, he is quite unhinged. Alongside performing many evil schemes to frequent disregard for his own workers, more fail, like tossing his henchmen into a shark world conquest. He is as evil as he is petty; with his schemes spoiled child that has been told "no", the townspeople into the sun, sinking a ship to blow up the sun just to make popcorn. He does have a bit of a gentleman side to tell T.U.F.F. just what his scheme is, considering If it's your birthday, then he'll give before killing you, because hey, no one's He also considers just eating the people who too much, as it's just too dark and disturbing. He also ends up finding love in "Snap Dad", even becoming an agent for T.U.F.F. to prove He failed in the end, but there was an attempt. In the end, he may be a villain, but you may Just, don't offer him cheese. He's allergic to it, and yes, he's aware As we continue our descent, we have Chalkzone's Created after a botched drawing by Rudy, he out his rage by attacking the denizens of He's a villain and proud of it; more than miserable. This can range from trying to flood and commit of Chalkzone by trapping them in a museum brain to hypnotize the citizens of Chalkzone He even backs out of a deal he made with Rudy than willing to let others drown. The only real positive we have for him is making sure that they don't get hurt during Brain". But even then, he still is willing to go rough albeit in more of a drill instructor kind Also, for as much as he hates Rudy, we do "Let's Go Wandering", as co-creator as his creator, and it was like saying good-bye Overall, he definitely is one crude drawing. Anyone who, without a hint of irony, says villain, or a Dungeons and Dragons DM. We're going to throw in Kip O'Donnell The Poacher from The Wild Thornberrys. Although he's always with his lackey Beiderman, he's clearly the more evil of the duo. O'Donnell definitely seems to be an emotionally and sadistic. Given his occupation is poacher, it's not Given everything he has attempted to do throughout he deserves to be called out for being such Luckily, his plans are always foiled and he's Next, we have Amon, from Legend Of Korra. The leader of the villainous Equalists, his bending from everyone. He claims that his parents were killed by as such, wants to rid the world of benders, His real backstory is that he is the son of to Aang. As such, he and his brother Tarrlok were meant learned the outlawed art of blood bending. While Tarrlok rejected this idea, Amon loved can make people insane, you get a recipe for As a public, he tries to keep a clean image, enough support to attack the more scrupulous Seeing himself as the solution, he isn't things if it means his goals get closer to That said, he still does have some care for as he fell in love with blood bending, and did commit. Plus, as bad as his actions are, he does have citizens and working for equality. He may have been a sane man at one point, reasoned with. He may not be the solution, but he is still Vicky of the Fairly OddParents gets the title deservedly so. This tyrannical babysitter preys off of unsuspecting She is psychotic and proud of it; more than by forcing them to do chores, to flat out As the series went on, her actions and desires global domination in "Channel Chasers". It's clear that the show never really intended it shows. She has babysat for way more children than Now, you may be wondering just how someone Well, the show offers several explanations. One of which is that her core emotion "Kindness" In "Snow Bound", it's because she claimed Finally in "Vicky Loses Her Icky", it's inside her, making her act this way. She certainly does have a lot going for her, and parents into submission to get her way, The 4th Most Evil Nickelodeon Villain is Vlad As the major recurring villain in Danny Phantom, foe. As a billionaire half ghost, half man, Vlad in marriage, being more than willing to kill He says that this is because Jack caused the he had to spend years in a hospital as Jack For him to be happy, he just needed to marry Well, "Masters Of All Time" says no to When the role is flipped and Jack is the one himself to be better than the completely human In "Phantom Planet", he even decides to called the disasteroid, trying to become the and controlling the entire world, he'll However, this would lead to his downfall as that negates ghost powers, and realizing he he would just be hunted. As much of a self entitled fiend this wannabe for being a decent person. In "The Ultimate Enemy", he willingly in his life, even trying to remove his ghost the dreamed Dark Danny. However, after spending a decade alone, he of a fool he was. He also is genuinely excited at the idea of For as controlling he can be, he does still Of course, due to how he can be, it probably at the end of "Phantom Planet". We're at the final 3, and the winner of A Teenage Robot. The queen of Cluster Prime who wants Jenny has enslaved countless people, or as she calls her eyes, the superior race, robots. She has proven herself to be a constant threat brainwash her with a nanobot in "Hostile convention in "Tradeshow Showdown" just Sheldon, into giving her Jenny's master Her biggest and deadliest plan however, was Earth in "Escape From Cluster Prime", it's revealed that she's been lying to evil than she is, even hiding some important access to their powers to frame it on Jenny. The reason she isn't any higher is because only have the golden chips been recovered, now just lives on a floating asteroid. While she still tried to go after Jenny, mainly from her at school. It's very obvious that without her empire, that she wants you to believe she is. That said, she did have one pride and joy, her pride until she was overthrown by her Once a powerful threat against Jenny, now to not feel a bit bad for her...then you remember this. With our Silver Medal of overall evil villainy, Zim. At first glance, Zim is just a incompetent he caused so much damaged to the Irken Empire. His sidekick GIR can even be more competent And Stuff", and even his own computer system So, just why does he have a silver medal? Simple; it's Zim's same zany nature that Without anyone stopping him, Zim is capable In vain efforts to appease his Tallests, he In "Walk For Your Lives", he more or less town. In "The Wettening", he floods the entire by water thanks to his nemesis, Dib. In "Hobo 13", he ends up casually killing deadly obstacle course. In "Battle Of The Planets", Zim takes planet, just to slam it into Earth. And these are just a couple of examples. His most impressive vile feat however is "Into the entire world into the path of the Irken planet themselves, even creating the titular to Earth by distorting reality and everything Tallest that refused to go around the Florpus Zim came within seconds of reaching his goal So, yeah, as laughable it is to look at Zim's free pass, he is more than willing to go all The only reason Zim isn't number one is the planet jackers and Tak, if only so he He may be foolish 9 out of 10 times, but beware At the very worst of the worst, we're ending The Gold Medal of Nickelodeon villainy goes Avatar series, Firelord Ozai. In comparison to Amon, who at least was after Ozai is just a conqueror of nations just because He sees all other nations as weak and is more his way. He is not afraid to use emotions to manipulate own children. He even outright tries to have his own son reason as to he has that scar on his face. Even then, he still treats Azula worse by abusing her and gradually turning her into The kindest thing he ever did to Zuko was ended up being outright broken once she finally He is more than ready to fully end the war destroying the whole world just to show off The guy believes that compassion of any kind understanding why Aang would possibly let Given how he believes that there is no right is to take the most sadistic route possible, But being powerless and trapped in a jail That, we can understand. For a guy that just burns whatever is bothering A villain that is more than happy committing they are either dead or surrender to his will, the list. And that concludes our list. Did we overlook some villain's wicked misdeed, we thought? Let us know in the comments below. Be sure to check out our other videos in the like, a subscribe, or even ringing that bell. We'll see you in the next video, and remember