I thought you were going down I was but woo clap those hands and give God praise and I believe somebody shout I believe I today it's time for the word of God put your world let's go into the word of God This word God 2023. It has taken me that long to Today the Lord has released me to and expectant about the implications there is an encounter with God between the The Bible says in verse 22, &quot;When Gideon he exclaimed, 'Alas, Sovereign Lord! I face!' But the Lord said to him, 'Peace! Do That's a good thing. Always good to know. Look at what the Lord said to him. not going to die.' So Gideon built an The Lord Is Peace. To this day it That same night the Lord said to him, 'Take the one seven years old. Tear down your father's it. Then build a proper kind of altar to the Lord wood of the Asherah pole that you cut down, So Gideon took ten of his servants because he was afraid of his he did it at night rather than in the daytime.&quot; He did it how he had to do it. Sometimes those victories at midnight. It's not amazing thing. Sometimes the victory is night and woke up the next day. You have to Look at what happened. Verse 28: &quot;In the there was Baal's altar, demolished, down and the second bull sacrificed on the 'Who did this?' When they carefully investigated, Now I want to speak to you from this subject the Bondage of Wrong Belief. That's not one so let me give you a &quot;Say to your neighbor&quot; I know I look a little different. I know I've &quot;I know I'm smiling more than the last time you Thank you, Lord, for this word. I know he meant well, but I completely stood before a room full of professing Christians how close would you say you are to God right now?&quot; benefit of the doubt even to the end of his to give the people a scale to determine I was waiting for the twist where he in the Bible, this one man prayed, and he this sinner over here praying next to me,&quot; and have mercy on me.&quot; Jesus said the one who beat because he had faith to believe he needed God, so great because he was actually not close to He continued (I asked Holly if she remembered it, this up) to tell the people everything they could big line, this linear approach to knowing the the Bible daily. You can go from 4 to 6 if you point for certain Bible books. He went through Now, here's why I thought the exercise was because I've done some ridiculous things. I'll and then I'll get up in 10 years and them myself. It's ridiculous because it's Compared to...what? Compared to Jesus, who is supposed to be my standard? If we're going who? I don't even think the question is... You can with the eternal God who spoke into nothing and exists immortal, not seen to human eyes I can't rate something like that. That's how close you are to God compared to what you or whatever, because you don't really know You judge yourself off of your delusions I didn't think it was a very good exercise because what recency bias is? It's when the last thing and you judge an entire thing off the you begin to act like the way it is right now is but it's not true. I guess I'm using fancy question at a 10 (&quot;I'm close to God; I'm a 10&quot;), There are days where at 10:00 a.m. you are a 10, you've had to deal with some people, and it of you are one text away from going from bit of traffic from a 10 to a 2, riding been...' Get out of my way!&quot; You Not 10 and 2...10 to 2. Just some traffic. No cross. like that. So, it's a dumb question because it's I'm a 2 compared to Holly. Holly is wonderful.&quot; Comparing myself to who? I mean, So, I didn't appreciate the guy a 3 if you just take five minutes a day with but the real reason I thought it was so ridiculous in Jesus. Why are we pulling out a scale to in our own feelings, based on our own experiences, It depends. Have I had my coffee yet? It a check that was made out to me? Why are we situations and self-righteousness? I can always I belong to Jesus who already taught not something that is achieved but are looking at me funny because &quot;I'm trying to be a better man. I'm trying to be But understand there is nothing you will see on some advice you will scroll past and finally I've been waiting for them to get to 6. They've and God is not a scale. God is not a and I have him. So, I don't mind &quot;Pastor, how close are you to God? because of what he did. It's a 10, because did or what I didn't do. My relationship not like the relationships we run around The covenant I have with God is not established myself willing or able to obey. No. I am in of his dear Son who loved me enough to shed and it's a 10. You can put your You can put your scale away. It's a 10. your scale away. It's a 10. God wants to hear me not because you like to hear me. It's a 10. When &quot;Keep singing. That's my kid. That's my girl. they can praise me for what only I could do for If I break it, he already bought me. It's a 10 Nevertheless, the book of Judges demonstrates covenant with God and still in captivity. be in covenant with a God who knows Last year, I preached to you a series of raised up to deliver his people, the nation of called the Midianites. I don't expect you expect you to be honest today to admit that you when I hear them personally, that, first of If I can't admit I'm fighting the battle, how idea that I could be in covenant with God and I could still be in captivity, while is an experience we all know too well. It is faith (Ephesians 2:8-9). In fact, let me give now in Christ Jesus you who once were far away To be a 10 in my relationship with God because of relationship that I feel 2. The reason for this wavered. What I'm trying to say to you is you may The book of Judges proves it. You know what? Some of you don't need the book have spent your whole life stacking evidence for You can flip your middle finger to your faith, flicking you back, even if it's Some of you tried to be a really bad kid, kid did was make your mom pray more. Even your because she was praying for more so God gave her your bad behavior to give We don't believe God is sovereign anymore. We back and he would go, &quot;Oh, never mind. I can't a 10. Do I have a 9? Can I get a 9? Can I get a 6. The world is really going downhill. No, look at the verse. It says in Ephesians 2:13, in Christ Jesus you who once were far away...&quot; &quot;I was...&quot; I was, but... The nation of Israel was prostrating themselves to the and completely disregarding the The Bible says these Midianites were the of captivity, but they were also what God used to too. The Lord allowed the Midianites to oppress Now, we know God uses all things even though but we have a God who, when evil is done, happens through that evil that was purpose on the earth for which you were born. God is using Midian as well. It's so cool how This wouldn't work if we were reading it in so it works really well for us. Gideon and all of these troops. Midian has all this the Israelites. They take their crops. They people. But what are we going to do? We So, now we have people who are being plundered and feeling powerless. There God's special possession because he bought you his possession, but you are being plundered. your focus, your commitment to service Somebody in this room feels like they've been but you feel like you're going crazy. You When we meet Gideon, he is threshing wheat in a This juxtaposition has been preached famously, but everybody who has picked up a microphone God who will call you a warrior This discrepancy, when God calls you something calls you to do something you don't feel like you to be something you've never even seen before narrative. Gideon is so unconvinced about it he When you're in a winepress, which is a dug-out happened you will forget about who is able the situation for Gideon. Now, the Lord doesn't but we know, because a prophet The prophet said, &quot;You have forgotten what I did you out of Egypt. You have served the gods of the of the pagan nations. You have even started practices as your practices. So, if we look at the were oppressed by Midian, there is nothing to tell They have come into a land whose customs have land that God gave them, and the customs of that &quot;Gideon, I want to use you to lead a revolt strengthen you, supply you, and give the them all down.&quot; Gideon said, &quot;Me? I'm the least in me?&quot; God said, &quot;Why you? Because me.&quot; God turns The beauty of this is God doesn't say, &quot;Gideon, process. This is going to take three years to get while Gideon has been hidden. Do you know God too? Do you know God has been giving you tools, you have been in the cave of what you perceive So, he tells Gideon to go. He gives Gideon today where the Angel of the Lord said to not going to die.&quot; Sometimes when God shows up Feeling close to God is not always easy feeling. I love the song, but in my feel when God is doing a work in my life winepress. I feel scared when I step out to Isn't it amazing that the angel told him, &quot;You ask, &quot;Am I going to die?&quot; Hmm. Something for something. Gideon is so encouraged. is with me. God came to me. God spoke to so enthralled by this experience in verse 24 Lord there and called it The Lord Is Peace. To That's as far as I got when I preached last year. how it's going to go, that God is going to bring life. But this is an altar Gideon decided to while not evil in its own way, was just his idea He lies down that night, probably Lord told me I'm going to strike down the have to start getting an army. I have whatever he's doing to get himself excited Verse 25: &quot;That same night the Lord said speaking to Gideon for a while. It just same night the Lord said to him, 'Take the one seven years old. Tear down your father's it. Then build a proper kind of altar to the the wood of the Asherah pole that you cut down, So, let's contrast. Gideon says, &quot;Oh, I'm God. I'm going to call it The Lord Is Peace altar The Lord Is Peace. Now I'm going to go very traumatic.&quot; The Lord wakes him up and says, There's another altar that is built, not &quot;Your father's altar to Baal.&quot; While Gideon see some people I preach to. You're trying build your hope back. You're trying to to build your family back. You're You had 81 days, and now you're back on day two, build it back, God wants to show you something what you build will stand the test of the altar while Pastor Steven is preaching, to stack some new habits, and I'm going to I found out something. You cannot have God's priorities. God's peace without God's peace you've been seeking in your life, craving That kind of peace, that permanent that &quot;lay your head on the pillow that &quot;I'm in a fire, but I see the fourth man&quot; &quot;Greater is he who is in me than he who is in the and I don't have to be afraid about any of it...&quot; I don't know how to get you to shout about couldn't figure out how to make how to make it sing. I figured me...priorities!...that would trick you into thinking There's nothing sexy about putting stones on there is absolutely nothing convenient or do next. You know, fighting a battle against an an army and seeing God do the impossible, But before he did that, he had to do this. the one seven years old.&quot; This must have been the hardest thing for Gideon to understand. Before Gideon can win the battle against You have a Midian in your life, an external drive back. He can, and he will, and he has not just for you but for everybody God but before you can defeat Would it be helpful if I explained to your about Baal, but maybe your neighbor doesn't. it's his title. Baal was said to Without those two things, you can't eat or We have progressed as a society. We are at this time in history. We no longer trust It's not like we have Baals in our culture. controls us in our culture. Right? It's not like news cycles telling us what's going to happen &quot;I have overcome the world.&quot; Before I can defeat God... That's what Gideon said. He said, &quot;The That's great. The Lord is peace, and he does love In fact, he loves you too much to leave you like not only will he break through for you, does break through for you is God will call we love to shout about breakthrough? But what Is that why you've been feeling restless? Is that things you used to do? Is that why there has what? I'm not living like this anymore. You know what? I'm not walking like this anymore. You know from my inner critic anymore, because I need to Maybe you're in a smashing season of your own. of your life in this season. Maybe there are have let you down, and maybe you're going to a lady the other day who had a boyfriend. know. I quit answering his calls.&quot; I said, &quot;So &quot;Does he know?&quot; She said, &quot;He will.&quot; It's called I thought it was bad when I was a kid. The most to tell. Not that I was traumatized by Melissa in to tell me? How many think it's disrespectful I think so too, if it has been over two weeks Here's what I want to say. Israel has ghosted God. When I said earlier you tried to &quot;Nope. Nope. Didn't do it. Didn't do it. you drew a pentagram on your wall and started I think sometimes we just stop answering. Stay you. All you're doing is proving you're there and act like you're always a 10. coming to get you. The only reason you're in Like you always prayed. Like you always it. Like you were always so wonderful. Like miracle worker.&quot; Like you always were always forgave. The reason I didn't break him. All right. I'm going to tell you a Did y'all know Holly tried to break me for the summer. This has never been discussed behind closed doors. She looked was going to be something I was going She said, &quot;Well, you're going to do this summer. What if we just see if the Lord brings front row because I, like God, wouldn't illustration. I'm so far from God in my real I'm so happy that I said, &quot;No. I know what feels this way about you. He loves you so little while rather than let you worship Baal Baal is a god who keeps you in bondage. Baal is a god you cannot appease can't make it rain. Ask Jezebel. She but she was wrong. She had to apologize before she Before Gideon could build an altar to God... Before before we can get past this temporary behavior we leave church, there might be something you this YouTube link, they might be breaking up Don't go quit your job talking I can just see a kid. You know, because people can see a kid going home and taking a baseball bat altar to Baal.&quot; No, you're not. You're about &quot;Before you can go forward and fight this battle, For the purposes of the class we're having today, altar as being about what your family taught It was not only Joash who had erected an altar. He What God was really telling Gideon in this as a New Testament church today, has nothing It has to do with the beliefs you the beliefs that are ingrained in you. The not just an idol. You picture the object. The it that we need something other than God to than God to give us life, that we need How's that working for you? How is your Baal you would be happy, and you got success. it a god? I guarantee you it left you emptier, You found out there is nothing that can make you what I'm saying. Smashing Baal's altar. This a week. It may include that, but that is not what When I say there may be a breakup with Baal that spirit is a kid going back to school this week, God has been working on your heart, not only in to your school in a few days or, if you've already You walk in, and after a while, people and seduced by the things you were and destroyed by in a previous season, &quot;You've changed. You're different.&quot; Maybe they calling you names because you won't have sex. They You have the audacity, Gideon, to look at them and I know I act a little different. but it's just that something happened to me over but I've been through a breakup. Me and it for me. I decided that living to be I decided that living for pleasure costs me too having God's priorities meant I can't have God's anxious. Y'all be crazy if you've got to be crazy. Y'all call me what y'all have to call me, but the So, I might not look the same next time through a breakup. It might be a painful I may have to be alone sometimes, and I might to see this through. Why? Because after I'm going to cry for a little while. but after the breakup... When the altar of Baal demolished to pieces, broken I'm on 10 right now. &quot;I thought you were 2.&quot; I why I'm praising him. &quot;I thought you were falling even telling Baal myself. I'm just going to send Because you're not God. Stop thinking this is a from your spouse. I'm talking about a divorce You might have a better spouse if you had and it might not even be a different one. take the bat to Baal. All of that I was it wasn't about that altar; it was about &quot;I want you to tear down your father's altar, the &quot;I want you to clear your algorithm this week you to smash that so I can do something about in your life. You think every season of but after the breakup there's always You will keep going back to Baal, and you will problem is what is against you that you can against me; it's what I keep abandoning It is not the Midianites who keep defeating the altar to Baal that keeps you than God. The Lord challenged me to read &quot;Okay, God.&quot; He got up, he built a new I began to study about the altar, because of altar to the Lord your God.&quot; What is the it was uncut stones so that no human hand ready for the sacrifice because the altar was altar that was smashed the next morning, But the thing that made the altar proper was not Lord told Gideon, &quot;Get a bull from your father's we see no real revelation as to what needs in this detail. &quot;The second bull, the one build the altar to God, and after you have and put the second bull as a burnt offering...&quot; Wait The bull represents Baal, not just because Canaanites had mascots. For Asherah, who was their who was the weather and fertility god, the &quot;I want you to take the bull on the altar that built to Baal,&quot; what God was saying was, &quot;I want It is very simple to say but very hard to apply, and lie to you and feed you with beliefs about about what really matters. He will feed but the Lord said today is the day Every lie you've believed, every stronghold you've the bull on the altar. As long as we keep die, we will be in covenant with You have to put the bull on the altar. Every the altar. Every time he tells you you're put that bull on the altar. Every time he starts be, put that bull on the altar. Whom the Son sets I heard about a basketball game where Michael a rookie who was interviewed after the game. It They asked, &quot;What are your comments on your &quot;I'll always remember this as the night Michael He said that because when you're connected to now. I'm talking about the spotless, perfect Lord said to Gideon, &quot;You are not lies you have believed that must die so Stop thinking there's something that will There is nothing. It's nobody else's job to fulfill you. It's nobody else's job to do it. Build a proper altar. Let God and remember there is nothing you can Every time the Devil tells you you're too far a 2 a 10 by his blood. Michael Jordan and I can can use you to deliver, God can use you to be can use you to build it up, and God can use you to When they investigated in the daylight they said, &quot;Gideon did it.&quot; &quot;Gideon? the winepress?&quot; I like to imagine at but me and God got back together, and we I know what you've done alone. I know what you. I know Baal has failed you. He fails all you to a place of codependency with I know how thinking somebody needs to approve running, drinking salt water in an ocean you were Break that altar. Delete every opinion that be like. Ask your Father what a woman of God values proudly. When they say, &quot;You don't post and me and God got back together. That altar I want you to grab the hand of the person next They're in a breakup right now. Squeeze their I want you to squeeze their hand to let them the covenant-keeping God of Abraham, Isaac, and years of sin... Isn't it weird that the Bible said length of time they had been in captivity. You can be free the moment you come into you. You can be free from the moment you those who are in Christ Jesus, because through me free from the law of sin and death. seven years. You can be free the moment I'm talking about a new bull. Believe. Right now, there's somebody in this room who needs not going to die. The psalmist said, &quot;I would see the goodness of the Lord in the land but there are some altars you've been running to keeping you from being the person God sees. You're He knows there's a better you. He loved me Lord, I thank you that you loved me like I me to a 10. I get grateful when I think about my car (I appreciate it) or my think about any of these things just to I thank you that all I have to do to already here. Like that angel was staring maybe today is the day we finally realize the God, I ask you to set your people free today. There's somebody in this place who needs to give you don't go from a 1 to a 2 and spend 7, 8, 9, 10. You don't start performing and double somersault split spiritually. The God we but I will give you the faith to believe.&quot; So, and God is calling you to bring your life to This prayer is an expression of faith, for you. If you're ready today to repent of I want you to repeat after me. for the benefit of those who are coming Heavenly Father, today is my day of a Savior. I believe that Jesus Christ is and today I make Jesus the Lord of my life. and rose again to give me life. I receive hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church can know when we go live and post new content spoke to you today where you're watching from and to support the ministry financially you can click people around the world for Jesus Christ