- [Narrator] This episode is sponsored by ExpressVPN. Stay tuned until the end of the video for more information. On November 21st, 1991, exactly one year after the launch of their Super Famicom system, Nintendo released one of their The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past. Zelda creator Shigeru to the series' roots and weren't possible in the first game. What resulted was the biggest It also established several series norms. The Master Sword, spin attacks, By all accounts, A Link to success for the developers, But one man wasn't satisfied: A graduate of The Osaka Tezuka had been at Nintendo since 1984, working right alongside Shigeru Miyamoto on Super Mario Brothers He joined the Link to the Past team at Nintendo's Entertainment division halfway through development, and was brought on as the game's director. Tezuka and his team wanted such as the ability to This would allow players for new effects. But producer Shigeru He wanted the hero, Link, to But Takashi Tezuka hated on the cutting room floor. After the Legend of Zelda: A Tezuka had a strong desire to do more. One day, after hours, Tezuka noticed programmer Kazuaki Morita messing around with a Along with the new 16-bit Super Famicom, Nintendo had also recently an 8-bit handheld system. Morita was experimenting on the new handheld. To Tezuka's surprise, Morita was trying to recreate There were no official plans to the Game Boy. Morita was simply having fun with it. But Tezuka was intrigued, and decided to join in on If nothing else, it his desire to do more with Zelda. Soon, other members of Nintendo's Entertainment division joined in. Together, they formed an for the passion project. Members of the club did regular then worked on the secret It was the first time to make a Game Boy game. Despite their lack of Zelda adventure began to look impressive. In fact, it was so impressive formally pitched The Legend of Zelda for the Game Boy to upper management. The executives approved, another Game Boy development At that time, the plan was to simply port A Link to the Past to the Game Boy. But over time, Tezuka and the to try something new, and that got nixxed when they Their game quickly formed thanks largely to the fact that the game was a passion project. And it was a passion ups at Nintendo didn't scrutinize. Zelda on the Game Boy was where Zelda creator Shigeru According to Tezuka, Miyamoto was quote &quot;busy with something and With fresh ideas and the freedom Tezuka and his team created One without the usual suspects: There would be no no Hyrule, or Triforce. At the time, Tezuka was a popular TV show. Twin Peaks was notable and supernatural elements, including a heavy emphasis on dreams. Tezuka requested his staff off-beat for their new game: The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening. That responsibility fell Kensuke Tanabe &amp; Yoshiaki Koizumi. Tanabe had previously worked Super Mario Brothers 3, He always had the idea of a on a mountaintop, ending the world. With Link's Awakening, he was finally able to use his unique idea. Yoshiaki Koizumi was and originally wanted But after college, he hoping to bring his passion Koizumi's first job was and writing for the Link's Awakening was his first His film background came in handy. Koizumi took his own ideas, drew inspiration from Twin Peaks, and ultimately created a unique main story that was more detailed Koizumi's story picks up where After defeating Ganon, to continue training, in But on his way back home, a massive storm. Link washes ashore on named Marin takes him to While trying to retrieve his sword, Link meets a mysterious owl, who informs him that the only is to wake the Wind Fish, on the top of a mountain. Link must explore the island and retrieve eight musical instruments to wake the Wind Fish. But along the way, he Koholint Island is simply If the Wind Fish is awakened, the island and all of its inhabitants will disappear. Unsure if the prophecy is true, Link continues his journey and return to Hyrule. Link's Awakening was game in the Zelda series. Previous games in the but felt more shallow, and Link's Awakening featured with their own unique The reveal that Koholint of the Wind Fishes dream was a huge twist, and completely changed Not only was the story new and different, so were some gameplay elements. Tezuka and his team at Nintendo's Entertainment Analysis were able to get creative. Some became staples in the Zelda series. Programmer Kazuaki Morita loved fishing, and added a fishing mini-game It was a first for the Zelda series, and has reappeared in just Writer Kensuke Tanabe came up with idea of a trading sequence side quest. Link would find items on Koholint Island and trade them with villagers, eventually being rewarded The team also implemented an idea that was abandoned Link could unequip his sword and arrow, allowing him The creativity didn't stop there. With a completely new story and world, Tezuka and his staff saw some of their favorite Nintendo Chain chomps, goombas, Luigi, Yoshi, Pirahna plants, Wart from Super Mario Brothers 2, Richard from The Frog and even Kirby. Said Takashi Tezuka &quot;It &quot;a parody of Zelda.&quot; Some dungeons even contain similar to a Super Mario Bros game. Director Takashi Tezuka if they ever got permission He said it was for the Game Boy system, so we thought oh, it'll be fine. While these new gameplay the dev team also stayed Players had to explore items to finish the game. Backing the game was a by two women, Kozue It was the first game Many of the tracks, like became classic Zelda tunes. Additional sound effects were famous for the secret song Of course, he found a way to hide the tune in Link's Awakening as well. (bouncy electronic music) The result of so much was a Zelda game unlike any other. The development team loved and it showed. They also weren't afraid That showed as well. Koholint Island was a mysterious characters, and plenty of The intriguing storyline the mystery of the Wind Ultimately, even Shigeru with the game. He joined the team at the tester and provided feedback (dramatic bouncy music) &quot;So, how good is the The Legend &quot;As good as a Game Boy program gets.&quot; Dennis Lynch, Chicago Tribune. The Legend of Zelda: Link's on June 6, 1993 in Japan, and December 1993 in Europe. It received rave reviews. Players loved that a full-blown Zelda game was on the Game Boy and it made any sacrifices to make it happen. Nintendo Magazine System raved, &quot;Link's Awakening sets a new To promote the release in North America, Nintendo of America put on 18 participants, divided into professional and amateur categories, heading toward Seattle. The person to beat Link's would win $1,000 for the Nintendo also featured the of Nintendo Power. The iconic cover featured of Koholint Island, In 1998, Nintendo released a smaller, colorful For that system, Nintendo and released The Legend of The updated game added and an exclusive dungeon. Nintendo also added compatibility the Game Boy Printer. For 20 years, Link's Awakening but never fully revisited. But in 2019, Nintendo surprised that the The Legend of was being remade for the Nintendo Switch. In total, The Legend of and Link's Awakening DX sold making it the 15th best selling For those who played Link's Awakening, it's easy to understand The Legend of Zelda games formula: Go through dungeons, and save Princess Zelda. But Nintendo created something Eiji Aonuma, current series producer for The Legend of Zelda, has is &quot;the quintessential Link's Awakening is considered in the series. An impressive feat, Zelda game for a handheld system. In their article on Zelda Kotaku listed Link's Games Radar has it at number four. And Nintendo Life lists it at number six. The Legend of Zelda: Link's the developers at Nintendo new things with the series. This influenced future Zelda titles. Aonuma said &quot;I'm certain it &quot;in the series. &quot;If we had proceeded from &quot;to Ocarina of Time without &quot;Ocarina would have been different.&quot; But the biggest reason is that it was clearly a labor of love. Said Takashi Tezuka &quot;I &quot;on it and when it was over, &quot;each other about how fun it was.&quot; That's all for this episode thanks for watching. A big thank you to our sponsor Listen I find a lot of top when I'm making these episodes. The last thing I need is snooping on me, stealing my secrets. That's where ExpressVPN comes in. It's a virtual private network that helps protect your data and access And ExpressVPN is one of rated number one by techradar.com. It's super easy to use. Just choose what location you want to use, press the button, and you're all done. At less than $7 a month with and compatibility with you can think of, I would highly recommend checking them out. Take back your internet how you can get three the link in the description box. ExpressVPN.com/gaminghistorian. Take back your privacy - [Female Narrator] Funding is provided in part by Thank you. (fun bouncy music)