(pen scratching) - [Child] Tic Tac Toy. (paw scratching) (dog barks) - Why does Sandy keep going - I have no idea. She's been doing that all week long, and it's super annoying. - I bet. (dog barks) - She'll even go in there and start barking in the middle of the night. - Knock it off Sandy. - Hey girls, I just spoke and we had a major breakthrough - No kidding, what's going on? - Well, we have a reason to has been camped out in this And we think some of our to uncover and decode the Toy - No way, that's pretty big isn't it? - Sure is, chances are the Toy Master probably carries the and so if we can trace the then we can probably pin-point the Toy Master's exact location. - Wow, how do we do that? - Well, that's our mission for today. (dog barks) Hush Sandy. - So what do we need to do? - Well we need to call this number, which we think belongs to the Toy Master, we need to keep him on the If we can do that, it should to track his location using my computer. - Well, let's save him and call then. - Well, it's not that simple because we probably only really have one chance. - Really? - Yeah, if the Toy Master he'll probably hang up he'll realize that we're trying - Is that why you brought - Precisely, I'm going to but you'll need to use when you're on the phone with him. - Okay, but what shall I say? - I put a lot of thought into that, I think you should call him and tell him that his phone to be the winner of a giant toy prize. - Great idea, he'll stay - That's what I'm thinking. - Alright, I should the toys he's winning on the line for a minute. - Perfect, now we just need to figure out the right voice to use. - Congratulations! - Too much like a robot, try another one. - Congratulations! - No way, too squeaky. - Congratulations, you're a winner! - That's the one. - That's it, perfect. Okay, let me get my computer set up and then we'll get going. - Okay, I'm ready. - This is gonna be exciting. - Okay, I think I'm just about ready. Here's the phone number Addy and you can go ahead and call. Everybody, quiet. Go ahead and dial Addy. (numbers dial melody) - Here goes nothing. - Okay, connected on my end. (phone rings) (dog barks) Sandy, you can't bark now. - I didn't know what to do so I hung up. - It's okay, let me get Sandy downstairs and we'll try this again. Sandy, what are you doing in here? You're gonna ruin our mission. C'mon, c'mon, out this way. Okay, all is set, Addy go (number dial melody) (phone rings) Have the voice changer ready. - What are you guys name, - Shhhhh. - No one's answering. - Okay, just give it a minute longer. - Guys, I think I hear something. - Like what? - Like a phone ringing. - Hang up Addy. (suspenseful music) - The ringing just stopped. - Does that mean the Toy - I'm not sure, I don't - It sounded like it may have - Maybe that's why Sandy's for like a week. - I don't know but I'm You guys stay right here. - Be careful mommy. (clock ticks) (orchestral suspense music) - Okay, nobody's in here, (orchestral suspense music) Where would a phone be hiding? (orchestral suspense music) - This is kind of scary Maya. - You're scared? I'm the one who was sleeping all night with the Toy Master on - Yeah, that is pretty scary. - Hey Addy, call that - Okay, just a second. (number dial melody) (phone rings) - There it is. (phone rings) where's that coming from? Down here. (phone rings) That's it. (phone rings) There's definitely a cellphone on the other side of this door. - It's still ringing, no one's answering. - You can hang up now Addy. - Did you see or hear anything mommy? - I did, you know how you have that little crawl space door - Yeah. - The ringing is coming from in there. - That's super creepy and now I know why - But we've never opened - No, we really haven't I mean we have plenty of and we have no need to - Well, if the Toy Master's phone is ringing from inside there, then the Toy Master has clearly That's just beyond creepy. - But, if he's not answering, Maybe he's gone but he just - That's a possibility, not to answer his phone and open the door for some reason. - Wow, what do we do mom? - Well, we're toy spies, we have to be brave when others aren't. It's time to investigate further. - You mean we're going in? - Well, we need to gather but yes I'm gonna go in. - Well, we're in this with you mom. We wanted to be junior - Yeah, we knew it - Okay girls, we need to make sure we are prepared for whatever we could encounter. - What do we need? - Well I think first we'll start this can help us determine on the other side of the door - Good idea, if there isn't any motion then we'll know that the - That means he probably - Exactly, and I'm thinking some of these night vision goggles. Since we haven't been into I'm not sure what to expect It could be pretty dark in there. - How do I look? - Like a spy for sure. And I'll need this drill to - But if the door's been how's the Toy Master - You know, I really have no idea. Maybe there's another entrance somewhere, I guess we have to find out. - Should we take that camera with us too? - Absolutely Maya, we wanna make sure we document whatever we find. - Well, what if the Toy What do we do? - Well, If our motion indicating that he's probably in there, I think we should call the before we even open the door. - Good idea, I feel - Okay girls, are you ready for this? - As ready as we'll ever be. - Alright, lets go then. Grab the flashlight too. (upbeat music) Alright, get this motion aim it towards the crawl space door. That should do it. Alright Toy Master, if you're (phone rings) Is the phone ringing again? (motion detector beeps) Alright, I've got five seconds (upbeat music) - Do you think we'll really find and capture the Toy Master today Maya? - I don't know, it's a little right Addy? - Yeah, but at least we could be done. The Toy Master can go behind bars and life will go back to normal. - That's true. - Hey girls, did you try the Toy Master's phone number? - No, why? - Well, when I was setting I could hear it ringing again. - I wonder who else is - Maybe the TMA? - Well, hopefully we'll know soon. I have the motion detector all set up and if we don't hear it go off I say we go in. I bet there's some valuable information we can get inside there. - Okay, I'll go set a five minute for us. - Perfect. - All perfect Maya. Now we have five. (motion detector sounds) Five minutes, oh my goodness That's it! - Oh my goodness, oh my - Quick, grab the camera. C'mon, lets go. (motion detector sounds) Oh, Sandy. My goodness dog, you sure We thought you were the Toy Master. Alright, I'm gonna her downstairs, you girls keep an eye on that timer because we're going in, in five minutes. C'mon Sandy, c'mon, c'mon. (upbeat music) Okay girls, it's time to go. - [Addy and Maya] Lets do this. (drilling sound) - She's almost got it Maya. (drilling sound) - Okay girls, I'm gonna open the door. - Okay. (upbeat music) - Give me the flashlight. (upbeat music) - [Lucy] There's the Alright, I'm gonna grab the phone. - [Addy] Be careful - Can I have the camera too? Looks like it swerves around (slow rock music) Oh my goodness, oh my goodness. Someone's back there, there's movement. I may have got it on camera. (explosion) What's that noise? - I think it came in from the hallway. - Quick, go, go, go, quick, quick, quick. Quick, quick, quick, quick. - Look, the attic stairs are down. - Those definitely weren't Okay, so the crawl space must and the Toy Master must have - That loud bang we heard must've been these stairs hitting the floor. - And look, the front door is - He may be gone, but we have his phone. (phone rings) And I hear it ringing. - Quick, lets go girl, come on. (phone rings) Hello? - [Lucy's Boss] Hello, is this agent Lucy? - Yes it is, who's speaking? - [Lucy's Boss] This is Why are you answering - Oh, you won't believe this, but we believe the Toy Master has been hiding inside my house. The crawl space, the attic - [Lucy's Boss] So, are Toy Master's phone was in your house? - Yeah, I know that sounds strange sir, but we're just as surprised as you are. - [Lucy's Boss] But you have - Well, he just got away. - [Lucy's Boss] Do you realize agent Lucy? You are answering the Toy Master's phone, which we have now traced to your house. But you have not captured him? - Yes sir, I understand that sir. However, if you allow me it's really quite simple. - [Lucy's Boss] Agent Lucy, or shall I call you the Toy Master? - No, of course not. You don't really think that, do you? Boss? Hello? I think we might be in a - What do you mean? - Yeah, I know so. - The CTIA thinks I'm the Toy Master. (heavy orchestral music) This is our &quot;All About Me&quot; Tic Tac Toy book by Addy and Maya We have designed this Tic Tac Toy &quot;All About Me&quot; book to be an interactive book for you at home to learn about us, to learn about Addy and Maya and to fill out all sorts of fun information about you in the process So parents, if you are wondering where you can get our &quot;All About Me&quot; book you can go to Amazon to purchase this book.