Narrator: This cocktail of toxic chemicals is what turns raw hides into leather. But years of exposure without protection can also cause cancer and Mohammad Daud Ibrahim has since he was 10. Narrator: Leather goods are the country's second biggest export. But tanneries dump 5.2 million gallons of untreated liquid waste every day. Still, nearly a million that studies have found by the time they're 50 years old. So how has an industry gotten so big? There are more than 200 And most of them are in the where Daud lives. Narrator: He freelances at Daud peels off any jagged He says it doesn't smell Narrator: In some tanneries, workers submerge the hides in chemicals to get rid of any lingering hair. But at other tanneries, these rotating drums do the same thing. Three days of spinning turns the hides into this whitish gray color. Workers mix in calcium hydroxide to split apart the layers of the hides. Then, they organize the They're stored under a plastic tarp until the tannery is The hides bake out in the Drying is typically a because it doesn't But they're hunched over for Once the hides are fully dry, Daud cuts off any dangling pieces to smooth out the edges again. He says everyone who works Narrator: But we filmed at five tanneries and saw children at all of them, including the one Daud was at. Kids over 14 are allowed to but some in the industry And according to a recent report, 90% of workers don't because of all the Narrator: The hides then go through another round of refining. Some tanneries rely on to take off the top layer of fibers. It gives the leather an even surface. The scraps are sent to Workers load the pieces into drums for a process known as bluing. This step uses a violet powder, chromium sulfate, which preserves the hides and prevents them from After spinning for as long as three days, the hides turn a lighter bluish shade. The process helps create but the hides are still a little damp. So they hang them up to dry. At another tannery, workers use a different technique by clipping and hanging They work fast and can in just an hour. Then, a split machine so it's even before it's colored. The final and most dangerous Workers have to soak the which are often a mixture of formaldehyde, azo colorants, and pentachlorophenol. These chemicals protect the hides so they don't lose their texture, but they're all potential carcinogens. Sometimes, workers contract bronchitis or pneumonia from exposure. Inhaling the vapors can also While the health risks here are plenty, the pay is not. Narrator: They earn about one or two cents for each hide they process. Daud makes $4 on a good day. That's enough to buy 4 Government officials come by sometimes to check if people are getting which is about $65 a month. But Daud says workers often Narrator: And workers say they don't get any medical help. Narrator: The leather industry has turned Dhaka's Hazaribagh neighborhood into one of the most with more than 150 tanneries packed into just 50 acres of land. They regularly dumped chemicals, including chromium salts and creating poisonous rivers. Visitors who weren't used to the smell said the whole town wreaked of rotting carcasses and sulfur. For a fresh start, the government moved the tanneries and their 25,000 workers to a new district, Hemayetpur, but little changed. The government's filtration to process all of the wastewater. Still, in the last six years, it's never functioned at full capacity. Narrator: The toxins are leaking into the groundwater, too. The government said it's but it refuses to shut down the tanneries in fear of what that By 2030, Bangladesh wants from the export of leather goods, compared to the $1 billion These days, most of its Narrator: Bangladesh still isn't one of the world's top leather producers, but it's quickly grabbing global markets because labor costs are so low. That comes at the expense of Narrator: Daud has been working since he was 10 years old. He couldn't finish school, so he has few other options. That's why he wants a different life for his 1-year-old son, Noor Mohammad. Narrator: And he says if for leather workers, he'll try his best to send his son abroad.