(Waves crashing) NARRATOR 01:02 from the crush of contemporary life, Lana`i Life is different here in real and subtle Some would call it slower, others would call The tall sea cliffs of Lana`i have been the mists of early time. It is a hard land. (Ocean waves crashing) Here, Kamehameha I built a fishing village Today, this place of worship is the solitary Although accessible from neighboring Maui, Strong were the legends of ghosts inhabiting Today, the wind still whips through the mysterious Perry, who grew up not far from here. 02:25 come up sometimes to get groceries and so horseback and ride through here and spend And then, the evening would leave about 2 And then when we get to this area here, we the pummel and just let the horse take care And we'd just ride down because they told up with food and everything like, things like You would, they would call and that scared NARRATOR 03:12 03:16 island. We all, that's why that king sent his son and all so they said put him to Lana`i and the devils, you know, then he could build And so when he did get all the this, what and he got all of them killed and so he built back to Maui. NARRATOR 03:58 heartland is rich. Owned and operated by Castle and Cooke since the company product, pineapples for Dole. The lives of many are centered here in the 04:29 you can tell from looking at them, it's really And to be doing this for a period of many they, they come from the Philippines as you And they come from different types of lives. They find - you know, we have easier jobs So for our plantation, we're really grateful work. On average we call 100% planting as being Many of them are planting 10,000, 12,000 plants We are beginning a process of developing the island for many, many years since the 1920s. A large percentage of our residents work for And we're continuing to be very optimistic of Dole quality we've been known. It's been difficult to lure young people back pineapple. As you can tell people go off to college and find, rarely, jobs rarely available to them So it's been very difficult to bring young Primarily, I moved back because I wanted to I remember what it was like in my days and I think basically the oneness of the family. We're family and community is important. The value of hard work and how difficult it and hopefully you know my children can find learned when I was young. (Singing) Wai'olu 'auana i ka ulu hala Ne'e mai 'o Ahiki i ke kualono O ku'u 'aina nani ke waiho nei O ku'u 'aina nani ke waiho nei Lana`i is so cool and so nice, so quiet. I like it here. NARRATOR 08:11 There's no traffic light, no movie theater, Two large hotels are being built by the company. But for now there's only one place to eat 08:28 your TV. NARRATOR 08:38 Lana`i City. George C. Munro, manager of the Lana`i Ranch New Zealand at the beginning of the century. In the city park, residents take a break from Matthew Mano sings a song he and his grandmother island. (Singing) 09:09 Such a beauty from the air 09:24 White sand beaches, rocky shores, kiawe trees 09:50 With no rushes or no crowds 10:05 The only traffic is our stars Kiawe trees, everyone knows, everyone knows 10:39 And all the people who live here 11:01 White sand beaches, rocky shores everyone knows NARRATOR 11:33 and gadgets. Fashion styles reflect lifestyles. Basics like jeans and work shirts are easy But if your size or sense of style is uncommon, 11:49 except like shirts and T-shirts and all that. But I guess when they want to dress up they or Maui and get something nice. Woman: today I'm gonna start the third row. Did tutu come back from Honolulu? When she comes home then we get together again. NARRATOR 12:16 The stores close at noon for lunch. The tourists are coming to Lana`i, drawn in white sands and gentle surf. And when the visitor arrives, most likely, dance troupe, Na Hula O La`i Kealoha, on (Singing) I laila au la `ike i ka nani Elaine Kaopuiki: so it's great, you know. So that's the only style I know -one style My girls always encourage me Auntie don't (Singing) I ka `ono i ka wai o na pua Mahalo ia `oe e ka hoa aloha Eia ko lei poina `ole Ha`ina `ia mai ana ka puana Hea aku makou e o mai `oe NARRATOR 15:25 one notices the road gets narrower and narrower Zennie Sawyer travels it daily to go to work dreams of city office workers. She and her partner Jill Francis, craft clothes They work out of Jill's home. (Door creaks open) Zennie: Jill: See how nice the ocean is? Beautiful! Yeah, nice day to be outside. Any tea on? Jill: Zennie: I got to finish it so we can get our printing Jill: All right, great. Zennie: the pareos? Jill: So perhaps we can figure out the colors and time. Zennie: NARRATOR 17:06 he designs the patterns using symbols drawn from her faith. Zennie: to it because several years ago, a kupuna, the laua`e represented the backbone of God. And that really stood out to me, the laua`e So it's things like that things that I have designs. Someone will say, why don't you do this or anything to me, I can't get into it Jill: actually must be since at least I was 12 years I was taught by my mother and my sister. And we have a line of seamstresses in the So an opportunity to work with Zennie to do (Sewing machine whirs) Jill: drawn towards warmer weather. So when I was able to leave home after graduating When I first moved here, I knew no one besides It didn't bother me, I simply liked the idea And as I've lived here for 10 years I've grown I never feel lonely, I do not feel isolated Jill: liner material that someone had given us. And we cleaned that up, printed and sold a capital. Zennie to have a lot of money up front because of little by little it built and we were able to gallons of paint and just kept rolling NARRATOR 20:18 of her adolescence away from the islands. She returned to Hawai`i for college where After 10 years of life in Honolulu, the Sawyers They found it in Moloka`i. Zennie: a Labor Day weekend. My husband fell in love with it and decided NARRATOR 20:44 the north shore of Moloka`i and stayed for Three more children were born and they finally (Blowdryer blows) Zennie: own individual lives, to meet our own individual which has become successful. Not successful in the sense that we're making doing it, we enjoy putting in the time into appreciate people appreciating our work. NARRATOR 21:30 hau or pandanus tree. It also means the weaving that uses this leaf. On Moloka`i, lauhala and Louise Kekahuna Louise Kekahuna: but it gives me good leaves for many years. This is a practically thornless tree, which leaves. But this tree had come and had gone in its But whatever leaves that are here are very So I keep coming back to this tree. And I've been with this tree from the time 20 years. Just breaks my heart. I could remember climbing this tree from one Of course that was 10-15 years ago. I don't climb trees anymore. But this tree is just beautiful. I have read where even in the burial caves So you can see where the Hawaiians used lauhala But this young generation don't think it's Most lauhala is, is time consuming. The work is time consuming. You gotta be dedicated to what you're going And if you do too much things like lei, make you don't tend to put enough time in what I've been with lauhala for 20 years and more I want to perfect my work more. NARRATOR 23:37 preparation of the leaf. First it has wound into a coil. Louise Kekahuna: doesn't - this is not her her best quality It's material to work with. The longer, the more you weave the more you So you start looking or you end up planting NARRATOR 24:09 for weaving. 24:15 and each one has their own kind of strippers. Some they have a piece of board and they insert You remember what's phonograph needles, they And my mother used to make strippers out of of board and wrapping it with string. My mom weaved for a long time, but I did not There was this one incident where my children And we didn't have money. So there was four children. My husband worked on the ranch, Pu`u O Hoku down the beach. And I got permission and I went to get it. I made the dentist, two huge mats to take Little did I realize that out of necessity 25:26 lauhala is very great. It's very I could talk for hours. NARRATOR 25:49 day you will find Kimo Paleka at the airport. The people he serves are most likely unaware of Moloka`i. 26:00 I was entertaining with a rock and roll band Out of high school I joined the service, got to 3:30 in the morning NARRATOR 26:16 the Moloka`i Trio. Concerned about her son's devotion to rock him. 26:26 disappearing, somehow you know. It's fading off and I think you should start After that I didn't care for rock and roll Ah, I love my island songs. Kimo Paleka: Moloka`i Lullaby. (Singing) In my heart, there is a song All through the years, it's a place very I hear the wind gently calling me back through I hear the lullaby, I see the valley of our Oh sing...the gentle melodies of Moloka`i in the sun of heaven