- This Gamey console pre-installed for only $160. Yeah, these are probably Let's take a look. (lively music) Hey everyone. How are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome. My name is Krazy Ken, and I've been seeing this Gamey ad pop up lately, and suddenly after I now get a barrage of these similar ads from different companies. So today we'll take a then we'll look at their Then we will buy a Gamey and try it out for ourselves to see how good the user experience is. And then I'll also find out how this company is by selling a 20,000-game Let's dive in. This is the video ad. It's poorly made with bad cuts and out of focus shots. - This is the one- - [Narrator] (Interrupts) This is Gamey. - The ad claims Gamey is a Interesting grammar. Maybe it was a translation issue. And it has over 20,000 - 20,000! - Okay, that's a pretty big number, so we're gonna test that for sure. The ad also claims gaming making it easy to play anywhere, and it has a micro SD slot easily upload those And one of the presenters says although they don't sound - [Reviewer] Wow, I just wanna say that this quality is spectacular. - Then they unbox it and show Pretty short and sweet, right? So there's three claims I want to test. First, we'll need to test so we have a better Then we can test the ad claims. Number one, the quality. Number two, how easy it is to add games. And number three, I wanna 20,000 games pre-installed. And as a bonus fourth item, I need to investigate the because it seems just a little fishy. But before I test all that, So let's take a look at their social media and their website. I clicked through to their and I found it amusing how they tried to make gaming-related posts. &quot;The cake is not a lie!&quot; Celebrating Portal's unforgettable quotes. Well, it must have been very forgettable because you misquoted it. The quote is &quot;The cake is a lie,&quot; not &quot;The cake is not a lie&quot;, unless I'm suffering Oh, and Space Invaders, Space Invaders! Whoever is running this page clearly doesn't know much about games. That's Galaxian, you idiot! Am I being too harsh on them? Nah. All right, let's check out their website. The main Gamey website Product images look and no annoying popups so many times before. All right, you get a thumbs up there. The top of the website but it gives more specific claiming a high performance quad-core CPU, and a Mali-G31 GPU. Scrolling down, we get claiming a 64-bit A53 and FPS perfect 60 hertz operation. Language is hard. Hey, I don't have any room to talk. Apparently I can't Vague, vague, vague. I'll get there. Down at the purchase section, we get more specs, including providing a stunning Riiiiiight... HD. Hey, wait a minute. Did you see that? They have an email address on the website. Well, I'm just gonna ask them are legit and we'll see what they say. I'm not gonna outright say piracy yet, because I don't wanna scare them away. And send. Now we wait. In the meantime, I'm sure you and more importantly, how well it works. So you know what I had to do next, right? I went ahead and bought one. I selected an orange Gamey Pro unit and went to check out. I paid the extra $10 because why not? And oh, okay, they're asking for a tip. Okay, sure, yeah. One bagel. So the total price was $109 Huh, I thought it was $160. Were they running a discount or something? I clicked pay now and boom, that was it. Holy crap. There was no post transaction upsell. Hallelujah! (Beethoven's &quot;Ode To Joy&quot;) Okay, so now we just Piece of cake. (doorbell ringing) Whoa, that was fast. Hey, thanks. Apparently I still have living under my table. Wait a minute, this isn't a Gamey. Oh yeah, it's Factor. Do you see an oven or stove or any fancy cooking stuff back here? No, you don't. When you live 10 stories all you have is that, a microwave, but that's all you need for Factor meals. Oh, and a fridge. That's right, I said fridge, not freezer. These delicious meals are never frozen, so they taste amazing. Also, I'm a busy guy. I keep making episodes on and I don't wanna take time to cook. Factor fits into my lifestyle easily because you just event the plastic, pop it in the micro, Your fresh never-frozen meal No cooking, no meal prep, no And here's another cool part. Factor meals are designed so they're not only delicious, Go to factor75.com or click the link below in the description and use the code computerclan50 to get 50% off your first Factor box. Just heat and eat. Factor is that simple. So if you or someone you know eats food, go to factor75.com or click the link below in the description and use the code computerclan50. Okay, so here is the real Gamey box. It's not as colorful as the one in the ad. My day is ruined. The box is kind of scuffed up, too. I don't know, it looks kind Anyway, let's unbox it. Neat. We have the Gamey Pro itself with a nice smiley face a USBC cable, a quick guide and an even smaller quick guide that you'll need an foam protective material All right, great start. I love this part of the guide. &quot;How do I check how much &quot;O back to the main menu Reminds me of my buddy, Alfred. - [Alfred] L your hardware Your system has halted. - Now that the Gamey is unboxed, let's take a closer look at it. But I can't do this alone. There's people out there who are way smarter than me in the retro game emulation space. So I assembled a team of Lowest Logan, fellow content ZilchFox... uh... fox, and Brainiac Brent, my friend and Computer Clan Discord moderator. This guy knows his (censorship bleep). I sent them all their own units so they can tinker with And the cool thing is (phone ringing) Hello? - Hey, Ken, you realize you sent me the 3000-game unit, right? - What? No, no, no, no. They claim 20,000 games on the website. What are you talking about? - Well, you bought me and a 32 gigabyte model, which is You need the 128. - Hang on a second. Son of a (censorship bleep) I can't believe I missed that. - You managed to miss it all four times. - Hey, I'm not very astute, okay? There, a 128 gigabyte Us plebeians will stick because frankly, I don't want - Thanks. I'm not gonna complain. - Okay, now that that let's take a look at the Gamey hardware. True to the ad, the Gamey weighing only six ounces, though the controls look Oh yeah, Nintendo Switch Joy-Cons. How original. The front of the unit features a D-pad, select, start and YXAB buttons. On the right side is the volume with the micro SD for On the left is the power and reset button and the micro SD for game files. On the bottom is the headphone jack, a USB-C port for charging, also known as on-the-go, used for connecting other accessories like SD cards or flash Of course, it worked with Brainiac Brent's conversion What the? On the back are the L1, L2 and and a label. PowKiddy RGB 20S. Ah, is that the true name of this unit? Turns out, yes, it is. PowKiddy sells a variety and you can get the 128 Wow, Gamey is selling these and that price includes the games. I asked the chat just to make sure, and apparently the $75 model comes with 25,000 games pre-installed. Holy frick, that's even I'm really starting to I'll try not to think about it. Back to the hardware, the I was actually surprised by the quality. Colors look good and it's The angle of view is also not too shabby. And for certain tasks like the 60 hertz refresh rate works great. Everything is smooth, when and software can keep up, that is. But we'll talk more about - [Reviewer] This quality is spectacular. (glitching, crackling audio) - Oh boy. All right, let's bust Inside you'll find a 12.95 watt hour battery and a Rockchip RK 3326 system on a chip. This is an Arm-based chip, which uses the Cortex 835 architecture, not a seven like the manual says, which I think is a good thing because the 835 actually than the A7, and it And to top it off, it's The A7 is 32-bit. And I'm wondering if the was simply a typo because they just switched However, the Mali-G31 GPU spec is correct. So that's the hardware. Now onto the software. Let's boot it up. (jazzy music) Okay, so it took several minutes but all the subsequent boots Weird. But I'm sure when we we will find out the reason why. (inbox alert dinging) Ah, I bet the email team replied to me. Let's take a look. They said the preloaded and they are exactly the same as the original ones we played back then. Here's a partial list on the 32 gigabyte and 128 gigabyte. I just wanna clarify, emulation read-only memory files, on the Gamey hardware because Instead, they run in emulation, that simulates compatible hardware so the ROMs think they're running So now that I've warmed I'm just gonna straight up &quot;Or are the games licensed?&quot; and send. So while we wait for another reply, I want to dive into the Gamey software and the games themselves, but they sent me that spreadsheet, so I want to take a Okay, this is interesting. The 32 gigabyte model That's under the 3000 And the 128 gigabyte model That is way under 20,000. But the email says partial list, so I guess I can't treat it as gospel. And I bet the person who wrote that email was very cautious about Once the 1 28 gigabyte unit arrives, Logan can break everything down and we'll find out how many While we wait, I added on my 32 gigabyte model, which is weird because that actually undersold it on the That's not something you see often in a scam buster investigation. So now I'm really curious to But in the meantime, let's Gamey boots into a main menu where you can scroll through pressing A selects a category, and pressing B goes back a page. If you wait five minutes or press select, random videos demoing the And while they're playing, on the D pad to go to the next video. And it's hard to read are microscopic, but pressing like theme, language and VRAM limit. This menu also has a restart and shut down button for the gaming. Overall, I think the software once you just memorize a few So Gamey, I will give Well, this is weird. You're actually scoring Okay, the universe is not balanced. Something's gonna topple this over, right? Right? So now let's dig a little deeper and see how the software Metaphorical hood, it's not a car. The Gamey uses software which is standard in the retro ArkOS is the operating system, which all of Gamey's software runs on. ArkOS is based on Ubuntu, a Linux distro, which is based on Debian, which uses a Linux kernel at its core. On boot, a program named This is the emulator front end, or presentation layer, which allows users to select games to play. When a game is launched, which is an open source and and it contains emulators. RetroArch simplifies everything by making emulation tasks easier. So instead of dealing with a whole bunch of across multiple different programs and multiple different emulators, everything is just in a nice tidy, all-in-one package under one roof. And it's really nice, And let's not forget about shaders. Those are fun, right? RetroArch has tons of shader presets. For instance, you can add I also like adding CRT effects, but this poor Gamey Or if you're really old school, you can give your game Now let's talk about cores. When you launch a game RetroArch will then load which in this context is a game emulator. So when we launched this RetroArch loads a specific core, an emulator named parallel_N64. When inside a game, press to open the RetroArch menu, which gives you an absolute and I'm not going to pretend The default menu user interface is RGUI, which has the simple green and gray look. But other menus like XMB Also, Logan discovered why the Gamey took so long to boot on the first time. It was running a shell script. If we examine the first boot.sh file, we'll see the script is including resizing the file system. After the tasks are complete, it reboots and then continues as normal. After that, all of the boot so not bad. All right, let's see if the Nope, nothing. They replied to the first but now it's been days and I just think that's a little suspicious, but I'll give them a little more time. Now it's the moment I've Let's test drive this thing for real and see how good the user experience is. The first thing I want I went through the list All right, let's see. What should we do? Ooh, hey, Strikers 1945 3. Okay, this game got a lot because I sucked at it. Oh no, that's not a good sign. Oh, crap. Okay, that one doesn't wanna work. Oh, how about R-Type? That's another favorite from my childhood. So this one's running on MAME. That one I've tinkered with long, long ago (lively music) and it didn't work. Okay, we're batting zero so far. That's just great. R-Type 2. Second time's the charm, I guess. Or I guess we're on the third now. (lively music) Hey, this actually seems to be working. Okay, A is fire. Charge the laser. What? No! What the? Okay, so (censorship bleep) Okay, we need a different approach. So my team and I flipped what works and what doesn't. We found games which but performance is a mixed Sometimes it'll be fine, like thank goodness Pac-Man works, right? But you know, that game's Also, just for the Pac-Man is not in the Despite him being in the picture and him being in the He's actually in the Neo Simpler games like Arkanoid and less drawing on the screen, play with good sound and picture, but then some other Oh yeah. That's not very good (Ken laughing) Wow, this is like unusable. Yeah, so quality, eh. I'll say the screen is good and the controls don't feel bad either, but with all of the crashes and the lag, I'm gonna say big thumbs By the way, you can watch more on my Patreon. Check it out. All right, number two: how easy is it to add games? While the Facebook ad said it's easy, and for a Brainiac Brent, it was. He copied a Nintendo DSS zip archive, which he already had on and it just worked. Zilch had good luck too. This time he had to so he could copy over the .SFC file, but when he did that, So if it worked for them, it Wrong. I put Arkanoid on here. I have a ROM that I used but I put it on here and from EmulationStation, and I can't get it to So I have no idea what I'm doing wrong, but at least it worked So this claim is kind of true. It really depends on your skill level, but ultimately, I'm gonna say And that leads us to the final claim: does the Gamey actually have Let's find out. All right, Logan, gimme - Hey, Ken, good news. The 128 gig is here. - Tell me it doesn't have 20,000 games. - It doesn't have 20,000 games. - I knew it. - It has 29,178 games, (censorship bleep) - Am I losing my mind here? I thought these Gamey guys were scammers, but it seems like they're and I can't call this a scam buster if there's not much of a scam to bust. - Well, this might help. I wrote a program to check and found it has 6,908 exact so the real count is 22,270. - Okay, I mean, that's a - Also, I should mention this program only detects exact matches. So if there are several but have slight differences that ROM won't even report as a duplicate. So the true game count - Gotcha, gotcha. Well, thanks Logan. This is good info. - Yeah, no worries, Ken. You all right? - Logan, did I lose this one? I just don't really have many bad things to say about the Gamey. - Don't worry, you'll get 'em. Don't forget, Gamey is for something that you can That's pretty scammy in its own right. - True. - And all that aside, I think you know what you need to talk about next. - Yeah, that's all I so I'll give it a shot. Thanks. - Yeah, no problem. Now have a good one, Ken. - Yeah well, I guess now that leaves us with one more important - Pirate! - Yes, piracy, everyone's This is a legal gray area, of retro game preservation. But despite maybe a few the Gamey ROMs are not meaning they are being or at the very least, without consent from Even though we don't have from the Gamey team regarding piracy, which I'm not surprised about, that most if not all of the merely by factoring in cost. The 20,000 game unit sells for $160. For all intensive porpoises, to match their advertising claims. And just for simplicity, we'll ignore the cost of the hardware. So for Gamey to break just break even, they'd have to obtain each video game license for 0.8 cents. And that is extremely improbable. In a real world example, for they sell their cabinets for $500, and those only have but the games are officially licensed, and they make that very clear And cost isn't the only problem. Not every developer and or publisher is going to agree to Nintendo, for example, is very strict about what platforms their games run on, and they've been known with lawsuits and cease and And on top of that, we're not Every licensing deal is different, but generally speaking, and licenses in general involve A flat fee is a one-time And royalties are recurring For example, a dollar per unit. And that can be over a or it could be forever in perpetuity. - You brought up the word royalty. I didn't, you did. - So there is no way Gamey is unless they're not paying for the ROMs, which is very likely the Don't copy, don't copy that floppy So I think that's the big Consider this scam busted. (rhythmic music) Frankly, I don't want to and I don't want to have all of these pirated ROMs in my lair. So I'm gonna try to And if they don't accept, because the hardware should still be fine. And if there's any significant I'll post updates on my Twitter and my YouTube community And subscribe for more like my next one that's Man, this thing is freaky looking. Catch the crazy and pass it on. (lively music) Was that the bite of '87?