Detroit is effectively the dictionary's Yet images of the fading city somehow evoke This is the magic of great cities beyond their - as offered by neglect. Inside that faded skyline is Book Tower, an be Detroit's greats landmark - only to Although stunted by The great depression of decline of Detroit this Rust belt monument aviated the wrecking was an icon of the world. This is the story of Book Tower.. I'm your host Ryan Socash and your watching CHANNEL INTRO Let's start at the Turn of the century when Rapidly on ascension to becoming a key American from long and far flocked to the urban center Being strategically located near natural resources there were few places more prosperous. To the west the Union Pacific, which was founded of miles to every western corner of the country. When to the east you had the Erie canal which to the east coast but more importantly - beyond Although logistics were far from next day Going back to the Detroit dictionary definition year 1900, the definition could have been Detroit and prosperity. /// Skyscrapers and Banks were appearing everywhere Park. Many of which still stand, and are crucial The progression of their designs as corporate So, before we have a look at Detroit's great at how the stage was set. According to Historic Detroit.org, The Chamber of Commerce Building was built This Building is Detroit's earliest standing And although it technically stands, it is was mangled. Now it is home of the Archdiocese of Detroit /// The state Savings bank building opened in legendary New York firm McKim, Mead &amp; White, videos on this channel. Although modest in size, this building represents day despite having a very close call with In 2012 a developer bought the property with a parking lot. /// Next we have the Penobscot building, which style complex located in the finical district. This building is a magnificent example of towards Detroit's preference of skyscrapers. /// However, in 1909 the flamboyance in grandeur the Ford building was completed - totaling Italian marble. The industry that this design represented - but thanks to the indisputable wealth would rise. /// In 1912 the dime building appeared on the neo classical structure which housed the likes the bank of the commonwealth. This building can offer some great context to renovation. In 2002 alone a developer spent a whopping the tip of the ice berg... A type of cost not unique to the Dime building next great 20th century skyscraper on our Book tower. /// Taking its name from the famous Book brothers inheritance from their maternal grandfather in Detroit. Their concept was epic. The brothers attempted to revitalize what Washington Boulevard, into an upscale and fashionable destination in New York City. They would go on to control about 60% of the to make a statement that could not go unnoticed began. Architect Louis Kamper was commissioned, envisioning ambitious conquest as this was Kamper's Construction started in 1916 and was completed The building is 499 ft tall, 38 stories, and Upon completion it was briefly the tallest Penobscot building in 1928. This tower was originally intended to be part planned at the opposite end of the building. However, with the hardships of the great depression On the ground floor there was space for shops The finished building included 12 statues the buildings cornice, The priest from the St. Aloysius Catholic of the 12 apostles. The U-Shaped design allowed for amble sunlight the one feature everyone agreed was good... were a mixed bag /// Architected Kamper was chosen in part because Book Jr. - Kempter ecstatic about this opportunity because the architectural monuments of the past - However, in the eyes of many - his lack the silver spoon brothers who commissioned Resulting in mockery from the very people I think an article on Buildings of Detroit Intricately carved Corinthian columns, florets, Horizontal bands of Italian Renaissance ornamentation female figures gracing its midsection like Nearly from the ground to the top of the 36th Kamper's strategy on the Book tower didn't His decision has been ridiculed and criticized on designing a structure so tall. He didn't take a fire evacuation route into the addition of the unusual fire escape all Kamper chose porous limestone that sucked impossible to keep clean. In short, Kamper's vision was a mess. Detroit Free Press said that Kamper's designs and hopelessly out of date." Douge McIntosh a Birmingham architect said, "all of his buildings are frothy and decorated decorator would" In other words, prominent architects considered equivalent of cheap pop singers who try to dancing. Or if we should really frame it in a modern nuff said? /// Regardless of opinions, Washington Boulevard this building. The streets were bustling, shops were full, may have written off the pride of Detroit That was, until the morning of December 14th to run out. /// Sarah Watson Leisen - a 30-year-old local window, taking the life of Ryamond Donald with her. Then a decade later it was discovered that on top were suspected of exposing those below although the radiation threat remains inclusive on March 19th 1986 when high winds blew a As a miracle, no one was hurt - but the incident on the skyscraper, calling for brutally expensive Restoration that no one could afford. The property owners began to default on their /// By May of 1988 Travelers Insurance Co. a principal owners to court - over a 4-million-dollar tower in 1989. Ultimately the building was acquired by John had recently concluded $10 million in renovation Not unlike the Book brothers in the 1920's, Boulavard back to its prime. And although the future of the tower started Mr. Lambrecht took his own life that very /// Widow Susan Lambrecht took over his estate the dyeing giant. But with a falling occupancy rate, a very the occupancy was falling fast. By 1992 Book tower was optioned for a trivial threatening to cut off service to the building. To make matters worse, modern buildings like more attractive space in an already struggling /// Ms. Lambrecht finally threw in the towel on to the Pagan group for an undisclosed sum. Despite nice press releases and good intentions, Even the new owners could keep up with the By April 2007, unpaid electricity bills resulted few tenants who remains left... and its no of a skyscraper without electricity. Then in 2007 AKNO enterprises took over ownership bill by $87,000 and another 20,000 in water /// Bookies Tavern, a popular tenant had its last at 2.A.M leaving the Skyscraper to be abandoned, of Detroit - Washington Boulevard on hospice. /// And here we reach a fact that I deeply admire on even after the game was lost. In 2015 the complex was purchased by yet another which is scheduled to be completed in 2022. Once complete, the tower will include a first apartments. Much emphasis is still being placed on revitalizing /// Finally, I'd like to address the elephant itself. I'd strongly suggest that the Architectural compared it to cheap cake decorations so publicly on their end. Throughout history, Art of the common people a small allusion of being in a social class Mocking real people, especially when you have taste. The art of common people can be ugly, but an authentic way that an American Architect /// So, what happens, when cities side on historic heritage over a new parking lot, shopping gimmicks? Well sometimes we have a legacy to pass onto in other cases, we get abandoned skyscrapers... or just maybe - we can see a city returned So, at what price do we compromise? Should we trade our skyscrapers for Trinkets? /// I'd like to end this video with something share this video, I'd be curious to see on the matter. Also, support the channel by subscribing, Decay" as well as our daily stories. This is Ryan Socash signing off!