Hey guys. Toby Mathis here with the Anderson Today, I'm joined by Josh Robertson, the five ways he's seen people absolutely And we're going to go in we're from his experiences So we're going to break them down. So first off, welcome, Josh. Hi. How are you, Toby? All right. I'm alive. I'm it can't be complain in here. So you're from the beautiful state You're sitting up there in Draper? I think I'm actually I was and had me in the Draper office. And then he came into the Draper offices And so I was exiled to eastern Utah, but I like it. Really? Oh, man. Yeah. How was it over there? It's a beautiful. It's lovely. It's lovely. I my house is sits at just over a mile My wife's from the city, so I had to ask her several times You're sure you're okay with this? You're in That's like, yeah, the most famous images I think Yeah. It's, it's it's awesome. It's great. So. All right, well, let's talk about stuff So let's talk about the ways people Like when I say mess up, I mean undo. They think they have something And they managed to screw it up. They they snatch defeat I think it was my beloved Eagles And let's just see So let's dove in. So so I know we're going to go over five. I won't list them out yet, but But what was number one? What was the first thing you let's do a still a podcast What was the first one you thought of? So the first thing that came to mind is the first thing When they asked me, And I always say, What do you want to do? Because depending on what you want to do, there's going to be a different structure There's And so the in one word objectives What are your objectives? If you understand your objectives, myself, the other attorneys, we can work with you to put a structure together that will help But if you don't know what your objectives And particularly so the first story And what happened was so there's a family, as there usually is, two families over land and one family sued the other family. And that family counterclaims So we'll say we have the So all the lawyers are involved are flying to families Right. To take each other's land Property to take property. So they take something from somebody A person who's getting sued and but there's probably exposure here. I sense that there might be a a not So tell me about this. Here's not so what happens is the Jones they were the plaintiffs in the first case Now, how they lost is really immaterial Let's just say it. So what happened was it was a default Smith countersued Jones never showed up. Jones Just default. Jones threw a punch prepared for what came back at them Exactly. So Jones defaults. Smith goes Jones panics and Jones And so what they do is they hear, Oh, I've heard about these wonderful tools The idea is you transfer property into this Domestic Asset Protection Trust there's no liability, can't come against the property So Jones thinks this is perfect. I'm going to do this. Lots of problems with this. The main one being that there was already So Smith was a preexisting creditor. So so it's like a fire alarm. Know it only does you good if if you have And so your asset protection plan has or they'll do something on a fraudulent Is that what it was that And that's that's exactly what happened. We went through all this legal wrangling we're clawing the property back. That's what it's called in the law. We're calling the property because it was a fraudulent conveyance and the property goes to Smith And exactly because of what you said, you didn't have it installed previously. If we change one facts which is timing, But and so why does this tie back Their objective was to protect Had they come to us or somebody like us before any liability had attached Is this a good option here? We could have said yes or no. Explain why And it may have been the Domestic Asset they did it So right answer. But unfortunately too late. So it's like, hey, I have a car. I should have put oil in it. I know that the oil will keep the engine from seizing up, and then I put the oil in it. It's probably too late So they just the courts do not like it's after there's exposure, even if you know It's and you do stuff It doesn't matter if you and you try to remove something from them Was there a bankruptcy involved in this? Did they make themselves insolvent? Was there any other assets or was this it? There was a I think there was a bankruptcy And this just exacerbated it. Like if even without the bankruptcy, it was going to go the same way? But they they made it worse. Was the reason I bring that up some folks think you can't transfer assets but you can as long as that doesn't So as long as there's enough there you can usually do something. But I think your point is well taken, sir. So that's number one. Make sure you have your objective and and make sure you're timely I'll add that one in there for you You got to make sure that you've conveyed There's the liability exposure. So it's the same thing you want to make sure you have tenants or you have exposure It's going to be too late. All right. What's number two? So number two is anonymity. And anonymity is one security through obscurity doctrine, And so if people don't know what you have, I can't take it away from you. It's very difficult for them And you don't see a lot of homeless people Not a lot, no. It's they don't think anything. So you don't want to look homeless, like you don't have anything. That's why they're not getting sued Be pretty darn close. That's right. So the the best example from are the mainstream news in recent Matter executive or or person Patrisse Cullors or her ideology, just saying that that got tied back to her and it caused a big stir because there were questions that was supposed to be for Black Lives We couldn't really tell the whole thing And I mean, all of these tied together, but it ties back to What are your objectives, what's the time And how how how is this going to be perceived Because for her, it was perceived avoidable. Use a land He's a land trust with a beneficiary. LLC was easy to avoid. It's more than just her movement that I think just go out there with their LexisNexis, and they can see Oh, wow, you bought four multimillion You're doing well. What are you doing So they start asking questions. So if they had just kept it private, Nobody would have ever been able to tie Maybe they see them driving there and they say, We can't tell who owns it, but right? It's not. It does. She didn't have to draw that attention But all of this was completely avoidable. It was a totally avoidable. And we know it's avoidable We set people up with this all the time. How do I keep somebody Like, am I sitting here today and I don't want anybody or I want to keep my name out of a public So a couple of ways. Easiest way that will work in So what you do, We call it the primary residents trust. Previously, you would have heard us There are some weird legal things so we've just changed to calling it It's a grantor trust, meaning that there's no taxable consequences. It doesn't change the basis, You just transfer your property over to the name of the trust As soon as you transfer the property Now, when you transfer the property from yourself to the trust, that is managing the trust for you, the person that set up the trust. As soon as you do that, though, you can go amend the trust and you don't have to reregister Now, why is this important? Because when somebody calls you up or whomever, maybe it's Clint, you're you're the trustee of this trust, I need to know the information. And it's true you're not. Could I just use a anonymous ownership like that to you? Could the trouble with to sacrifice tax benefits tied to you that you get from the state One one example is how those are taxed. Most states There's a different homestead exemption But specifically, they're here. There's a homestead tax exemption of the home's overall fair for commercial properties or properties but are used as input for investment they're taxed higher. And so that is a big benefit putting your home into an LLC Yeah, of something that can probably be So could you do it? Yeah. Would we have you do it? No. Fair enough. All right. How about the next one? What do we have? This number three. What's another big, big area just blows up plants? So this one is huge This is compliance and compliance to cashflow, So when you set up an entity, you got to make sure you comply First, they comply with the regulations the entity You're going to have to make sure You're going to have to make sure Excuse me. All of these things are important. The second thing that you're going to want to comply with and that you have filed with an LLC. We're talking about an operating agreement We're talking about a limited partnership We're talking about bylaws. You have to comply with your So here's why this hits home for me. There's a case out of Utah about Grandma Sycamores, I don't know if you've ever had Grandma Brett It's the only bread my family eats. It's still grandma. Sycamores. Bread. Grandma Sycamores bread. So do you think it's fantastic? Grandma Sycamores. Bret Guy named Leland started baking. Bread was really good. People really liked it, started marketing. It did so well locally that Bimbo manufacturer stores and distributors he got their attention. They bought his brand. They bought his brand. They brought his distribution. For a lot of dough. For a lot of dough. So much dough. And part of the deal was Leland, at least commercially, for ten years. Yep. A non-compete. Hey, I'm going to buy you out, but I don't want you popping up so you can do whatever you want. You can go B, You could go to become a consultant But the one thing you can't do It cannot bake bread. So what did he do? Of course, Leland started baking He didn't even try to hide it. He just. Just went for it. How did we know that was going to happen? You just it's like if I just like with little kid, whatever you They just can't help them. That's the first thing they do. That's one. Yeah, that one. Don't do that. Yeah, don't do that. Exactly He started he started baking bread again. And lo and behold, from New York with all sorts of breach of contract filings Later, Leland thinks he's got this thing buried in an operating agreement Here's what happened. He sells his company to Bimbo Bakeries. They say We'll pay you. He says, great. They pay his LLC. Now in his LLC, owns a portion of it, And he starts baking bread again, you know, that he's going to he's going But he does, of course, as we've said. And so when he starts making money I can't take this money, because if I do, First of all, no, But second of all, because in the LLC language that said that all distributions from the company coming out of that company based on an individual owner's ownership interest, Leland's wife owns 50%, $100 comes out, She gets $50. Leland thought that wasn't the case. And so he took a whole bunch of money thinking, if I give it to my wife, My wife wasn't part of this non-compete, They won't be able to to prove damages, Let's. It's not me. Don't look over here. It's not me. It was really her. And. Yeah, which is still silly But, you know, and the fact that somebody is acting in What does the court do that. As soon as the attorneys said, well, you didn't got to get back You didn't comply. Any distributions that were supposed were supposed to go to the owners You're an owner of the entity. You didn't get your pro-rata piece Therefore, we are going to claw back. Here's that word again. Claw back the distributions, redistribute them Therefore, you have damages for bimbo bakeries and they won. So the court has enjoined Leeland which of course he's I get it. Five years unless he dies first. And yeah, it's it's just going to happen. But that's where we are right now. So compliance is not exist. So he tried to hide behind an LLC in some legal language to avoid. I think this falls into the category that there's a good chance the court won't respect it. So if you're playing around with things, they'll find a reason to hang you In this case, they were probably doing whatever argument you made, Leland, is Here's what would happen anyway. So we're going to we're going to we're in you're responsible. So we don't have to get to the substance because even if everything the distributions were just going because your agreement doesn't say that with which to dispose of U.S. It's like, yeah, don't do that. And courts, you know how it honor I don't know. Maybe that's Bode. But you know, there's some of us Well, yeah, and it's it's not. It really wasn't that hard. I mean, he got his payday. All he had to do was wait. He didn't even have And he could have started baking again. It wouldn't have been a problem. We could have been baking. You just can't sell it. Yeah, but it. The whole thing's ridiculous. The whole thing with You know, maybe it was hard up for money He didn't know Or was he just being a was I think he was just being conniving In my reading of the case, that he tried to get involved with And it maybe it didn't go the way exactly a lot of money, multi, multiple It's a they do quite well. So it was. His grandma's in the first place I don't know that. Yeah, exactly. It wasn't even was bread. I don't know. Hey. All right. So, so that's the compliance side. Number four, What is that one? So education You have you have the old saying As I was thinking about stories implemented but legally nonetheless. The thing that stood out to me was O.J. Simpson. O.J. Simpson got into some trouble And the criminal trial against him for the murders of his ex-wife Okay. Putting that aside, but just talking about the next case brought a civil suit Simpson. He was potentially on the hook to this family and they won the case. So he still has like a I think the base But as Clint talks about more broadly, 10% So every year So it's it's ballooned since then. But the thing that that is interesting is that I don't think O.J. Simpson knew this. I think he had people that were working in He was informed put his assets in a place targeted by the Goldman family and taken One of the first things he did, Why Florida? I mentioned earlier There are two kinds, the tax Florida is one of a few states for your homestead value, meaning that except for voluntary liens like mortgages, any creditors that have a judgment against if that's your primary residence He moved there. Maybe not for that reason. Probably for that reason. Doesn't change So they couldn't touch his house and I just want to stop because people get tripped up You can be. Found criminally not guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. And so we are if you were alive going on for weeks and weeks, you know, the dream team You must acquit and all that stuff. Goldmans beat it mentally. That was just on the wrongful death for the estate of Ron Goldman, Is parents, I believe. And yeah so they get this massive it was 30 million but O.J., I mean, it wasn't just He had some other assets Right. Right. So you have the knowledge aspect of, judgment has been entered, I can't take my house. Great. That's good. But that wasn't his only asset because I wasn't aware of this Just by being alive. Then what I have learned player, played in the NFL for the Bills So he had an NFL pension, you would think, oh, A lot of retired men accounts particularly pensions that have been agreement agencies and organizations are explicitly off limits from creditors. For these people that are involved in Are professional athletes either a lot of the Hollywood actors Those people, retirement accounts at our employers The Goldmans can't get that either. You can't but you can't touch the distributions So you can live out your days on a golf course in Florida unless unless you're the Juice, in which case to come and commit crimes in Nevada I think he had a life sentence. I just remember this, that they couldn't find his Heisman Trophy because the Goldmans And then it made a cameo appearance when he was holding people up this is what people do during lawsuits And just as caught up with the charges, Like I was right. My wife and I saw him over at the Vitner He lives maybe 5 minutes away from us Goes to the sports clubs. I think I know some of the people And it's it's always interesting my wife is from Columbia, Simpson And she's just looking at me like, This was a thing. And I'm like, Yeah, I mean, there's racial tensions in the United States It was beside the point, you know. Allegedly. Allegedly. Yeah. Right. So they had the DNA evidence, all he says. But he was he was acquitted. He was acquitted. I have to say that. But but he was civilly responsible or at least Ron Goldman, Nicole Brown, or not, I'm not certain if they did. Yeah, I don't know. That whole thing's weird, but that's that's the best example O.J. Simpson had people working with him you have these assets that allowed him to implement a strategy What I would say is relatively And just like Leland, the only thing And so they said to O.J., do is commit crimes across state lines, and please don't commit felonies and you'll be fine. And he just couldn't resist. And he just he just had to do it just like it was That's right. Some people. All right. The last one. Yeah, yeah. You have one more way that people can manage The last one is both understandable and lamentable come on, guys, this is why you get people like us. The last one is just tax. And there are so many ways So many ways. The important thing to note is If you know, for example, and you're going to buy a property, you're going to rehabilitate it, That is a different structure I'm going to rehabilitate it. I'm going to rent it out and hold it We have different structures involved in that. And if you do the buy it long term buy you know you're going to flip, The main difference here is the difference that we would use for a flip type and a disregarded entity situation for long term buying holds. In fact, I think I can think of one exception to that But yeah, so an example Now we're going to take the heat off of the real estate people for a little bit There's a tax case. They were all getting nervous, Josh, oh, you're going to talk about some some messed up real estate tax, You're going to go. I'm What is. Completely different? So tax case out of Michigan, a gentleman is getting into the business of reselling, And so he. Yeah. So your friends, the scalpers. That's right. Forcing them high. Low, sell high. That's right. That's right. And they live. By they they drive me crazy here in Vegas. They like to buy up all of our tickets Yeah, obscene markups. And it really is obscene. It's very true. So this gentleman starts a business It's a sole proprietorship So he buys resells the tickets, and everything's going good. Now. He made another mistake. The first is he was doing his own taxes. He was preparing and filing his own taxes. And that may work for some people. It didn't work for this guy. And whenever you start getting business that's when you got to start looking It's going to be easier for you. It's an expense. It's It's a tax deductible business expense, but it's something Not only that, his son, but his son's like, I'm going to help out my dad. I'm going to get online. I'm going to incorporate the business. He incorporates the business doing, the lifestyle, Now, if you're watching this, and sole proprietorship taxation I mean, I learned most of what I know from Toby, But I'm telling you very different dad. Continuous filing taxes all of the money that comes into and then tax deductible expenses are made. And then he keeps the profits Perfect. It's exactly what you should be doing. There are some differences but that's okay for a sole proprietorship, is absolutely not okay, needs its own bank It needs to be funded a specific way. Everything needs to be keeps filing his taxes himself, keeps doing everything Dad passes away and family goes to file taxes the next year and they get in hot water with the IRS we've got some real big discrepancies here and what's happening now. Explain these. And they try their best to go back and recreate records By the way. And it doesn't work out. And they get hit with for the IRS, a very modest tax bill, $15,000, which grand scheme of things, not a ton of money It's going to decimate my family. But grand scheme of things, it's not a Bernie Madoff situation or, you know, like an Enron type situation everybody's getting involved But it all could have been avoided from the state of Michigan and from the IRS that this was a C Corp, saying, no, no, no, we didn't want to do So as as unglamorous as it is and as difficult as it can be, You got to pay attention to the paperwork. You got to look at what's coming through. You got to really sit down And as long as you do that about doing it, you won't find yourself I would also put this one in the category that you need sound advice, This would be on the same level as, so I decided to do my own feeling. And then I infected the tooth issue in my face. And it caused me to have to go through Don't operate on yourself. Don't do dental surgery on yourself. Don't do legal stuff on yourself. Don't do tax stuff on yourself There's some real basic stuff in it. If you just ignore it, you're Like that's the ramification. But if you start doing things without the guidance of somebody expect really bad results. In fact, when I whenever I hear I always write, I clerked for a judge and she said, it's Right? Whatever her opinion is going to be So you always think of the presentation. When I present something and I did an online deal like let's say or from an angel investor And I show that, hey, I went online What is my presentation The interpretation is always going to be You're not really a business. And these folks do this over and over And the court is yeah, whether it be the IRS, the courtroom or in the boardroom, You're going to get the same result This is not serious. You didn't do this. Correct? Tax can just be so nasty. So imagine they double taxed treated all their profit And then, you know, and which isn't fatal in itself, and you didn't pay those, the penalties Yeah, it all stacks and it's not it's doesn't mess around that they're going to bring a case like this They're going to make you pay through And so the moral of that story is what you don't know can and will beat the heck out of you, protection world. In fact, I think that's All of the scenarios The only one that I would say is kind of story, because it did work and it didn't implode on him some intentional acts but he you know, there was that you could do correctly everybody else, they blew themselves up And in all of those situations counsel, they would have avoided the nasty Absolutely. I think that's a reoccurring theme. So, hey, great, Thanks for sharing the five ways people mess up their asset protection plans. If somebody needs to get a hold of you, and they say, I really like that Josh guy, You get a hold of me The main number is a good place to start. It's 800 7064741. And there's my email address and I'm happy It's jrobertson@andersonadvisors.com perfect. So I just want to say thank you and hopefully Share it with folks If you want to get a hold of old Josh if this is on YouTube or on our podcast So thanks again.