The Millennium Tower is the tallest residential above the ground and 419 luxury condominium The tower opened to residents in 2009, but could tell that the building was slowly sinking How do engineers predict how soils will behave do you do when a skyscraper's foundation Let's find out. I'm Grady, and this is Practical Engineering. In today's episode, we're talking about Skyscrapers are heavy. That might seem self-evident, but it can't An average single-story residential home is of maybe 100 pounds per square foot of building That's about 5 kilopascals, the pressure With its concrete skeleton, the Millennium pounds per square foot or 530 kilopascals an average house). It would be impossible for just the ground in this case where the ground surface is a the City's infancy to reclaim land from That tremendous pressure is why most tall The Millennium Tower's foundation consists supported by 950 concrete friction piles driven feet or 24 meters. Friction piles spread out the load of the the underlying soils to be used to support The piles also allow the foundation to bear Driving the piles so deep allowed the building fill, or even the soft underlying layer of the Colma Formation below. This is a fairly common design in San Francisco, downtown area utilizing a similar foundation this one. However, it's not the dense sands causing underneath. Below the Colma Formation is a thick layer Clay. Thanks to the geologists for that name. When the building was designed, the project settle 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15 centimeters) from this layer of Old Bay Clay below the But even before construction was complete, that. I have a video that goes into greater detail after this, but let me summarize the high seem firm and stable, but when subjected to load is extreme like that of a concrete skyscraper Essentially, the soil is like a sponge filled An increased load will slowly squeeze the into the empty space. Settlement is usually a gradual process because out from the soil matrix. But some things can accelerate the process, The Millennium Tower was already designed to Clay than any other building in the area. However, construction of the tower's basement out of the subsurface to keep the site dry. This is often done using vertical wells similar not as deep. This deliberate and continuous dewatering Then other construction projects nearby began, which required their own deep excavations All these factors added up to a lot more settlement geotechnical engineers. The result was that, by 2016 (when the public had already sunk more than 16 inches or 41 anticipated for its entire lifetime. Unfortunately, that settlement wasn't happening Instead, the northwest corner had sunk a little the tower to tilt several inches in that direction. The media had a field day reporting on the started flying about who was to blame and the building's movement. The developer continued insisting that the settle over time, and the Millennium Tower But it definitely was different, at least With so much attention to the building, the to assess its safety both for everyday use By that time, the building had settled another or 30 centimeters. That's not something you could notice by most perceptive residents, but it's well code. Even so, the panel found that the building not compromised its ability to withstand strong However, they cautioned that the movement affect the building's safety. At the same time, and despite engineering the condominium prices were plummeting. No one wanted to live in a building that was down. It didn't take long for lawsuits to be filed. By the end of it, just about every person Millennium Tower was involved in at least one homeowners association, the building developer, others. In total, there were nine separate lawsuits After many years of complex litigation, a was eventually reached through private mediation. The result was that no one took the blame owners would be compensated for the loss of building would be fixed. During mediation, the retrofits to the building's the tower were a big point of contention. One early plan was to install hundreds of through the existing foundation down to bedrock. But the estimated cost for the repair was the original cost of the entire building. It turns out it's a lot easier to drill than afterward. The challenges associated with working below and lack of space, drove up the price and substantial cost. An unconventional alternative proposed by the dispute, and as of this writing, is currently The proposed fix to the Millennium Tower is perimeter. That may seem kind of simple, but there is it work. Fifty-two piles will be drilled along the way down to bedrock. Unlike the original plan, these piles will adjacent sidewalks, saving a significant amount An extension to the building's existing pile but not rigidly attached to them. Instead, each pile will be sleeved through the building can move independently. The slab will be equipped with steel beams within the concrete. Finally, hydraulic jacks will be installed Once everything is installed, the contractor foundation, transferring about 20 percent That means each one will be carrying around The goal of the upgrade is to remove weight it to the stronger bedrock further below and The design requires that the holes be overdrilled into contact with the Old Bay Clay and put The annular space between each pile and the only after the hydraulic jacking operation Once the building is safely supported, each below the ground, everything will be backfilled, If all goes according to plan, the settlement will be completely arrested. With less load on the original foundation, slow to a stop, straightening the building couple of feet lower than where it started. Of course, expensive and innovative construction this one is no different. The City of San Francisco and the design engineers movement as construction of the retrofit got It didn't take long to notice an issue. The vibrations and disturbance of drilling accelerate. The speed at which the building was tilting continued. In August 2021, construction was halted to the foundation retrofit safely. As of this writing, crews are testing some will reduce the disturbance to the clay layer the building supported as quickly as possible. The story of the Millennium Tower is a fascinating Our ability to predict how soils will behave especially when those soils are far below properties and extents based on a few borehole In addition, buildings don't get built in at the center of dense urban areas. Soils don't care about property lines, and the impacts that adjacent projects can create. Most people will wonder why the building's the original design. The answer is the same reason my house doesn't No one likes to pay for things they don't If those geotechnical and structural engineers would go with a different foundation, but the performance of the original design with is a more complicated question. The Millennium Tower is also an interesting and the media. The developer's engineers and the City have through detailed modeling and investigation. And yet, the prices of those luxury condominiums the settlement and tilting. Those prices depend not only on buyers' also their willingness to be associated with The value in the multimillion-dollar repair settlement but also to slow down the articles, this building as the leaning tower of San I know I say this at the end of all my videos, I did my best to summarize the high points, I definitely encourage you to seek out those It's an excellent example of the challenges projects, the limitations and uncertainty of regulations, engineering, and the media. I'll be keeping an eye on the progress of Thank you for watching, and let me know what