- When you look at me, you probably see a guy who has it all. But really there's a large and underdeveloped, especially Every girl I liked growing up rejected me. And because of that, I've grown into a man who is chronically nervous around women. I'm an emotional midget. Now, if someone came to I'd suggest immersion therapy with your fear in order to overcome it. So tonight, to inspire you, I'm gonna attempt to overcome my fear of the opposite sex by dating not one, but 10 women at the same time. Wish me luck. This is &quot;Nathan For You.&quot; I needed to get 10 women So I thought it'd be easy to So you know how I'm doing where I'm dating like 10 - Yeah. - Are you in a relationship right now? - Yes. That was stupid to ask. It didn't work. And I knew from experience and talk to me without an excuse. So I found one. Excuse me, would you like to try our new blueberry raspberry smoothie? - No, thank you. - Okay, come on, just one. Would you like to try one of our new raspberry blueberry smoothies? - Sure, thanks. - I'm just kidding, actually. I don't work here. My name's Nathan. I'm just doing this as and show my personality. - I'm just trying to meet people and... - Cool. You really don't work here? - No. - Oh, okay. - Hey, can you stop giving out smoothies? - I'm just drinking my own - Oh, that's not what it looks like. - But I like drinking my on a tray. That's how I like to drink my smoothie. - I need to ask you to move out that way. - Okay, well, I think I'm wherever I want. - You need to move this. - Hey. - You need to move this. - You cannot touch my tray. That is crazy. The smoothie thing was and it felt the same way Do you like my dog? Say hi. - Hi. - [Nathan] But just when I I had a major girl magnet at my disposal that I was totally ignoring. - What are the cameras for? - [Nathan] A television crew. It was a crazy idea, but maybe women would date me just for the opportunity to be on TV. I had my solution. I was gonna create a fake reality show in which 10 women would vie It would be called the Hunk. It took weeks to prepare as we submissions from women to my online ad. I like her. But pretty soon we selected hired a host, and rented a mansion. No one knew my show was fake, not even the host. And it was about to begin. - I'm Anthony Napoli. Tonight, 10 women will to vie for the heart of one man. Will they find love? Will I'm Anthony Napoli. This is the Hunk. (upbeat music) - Hi. - You ready, Nathan? - Yeah. Yeah, I think so. - A little bit nervous? - Kind of. Yeah. - Well, it's time to meet the women. - Where? Where? What are you gonna do? - I'm gonna stand here and to all the women. - Could you maybe be inside for that? Just because you're very handsome. - I understand that, Nathan, but I'll have to be here. - I'll have to be here. - Well, if you're next to me, - Trust me, Nathan. You're the hunk, I'm the host. - And women must love you, right? - Ah, I guess they do. - How many women have you slept with? - Not that many. - Have you ever had a threesome? - I have, yes. - Okay. So yeah, go inside please. - Would you like, you would - Yeah. You can't be out here at all. - No, it's all right. I'll step back. - Can you go inside? - Sure. - Okay. Thank you. I realized too late that was a bad idea. But even with Tony in the house, when the women arrived, - Hi, I'm Emily. Nice to meet you. - Hello, Nathan. Nice to meet you. - Nice to meet you. - Yeah. - So exciting. - Yeah. - This is fun. - Totally. It was so nice to meet you. - Yeah. Okay. - Thanks. - Do you wanna go? We Yeah. Yeah. Just for the first - Yeah. - [Nathan] Even though - I love a man in a good suit. - Oh, okay. That's nice. As I met more and more of the women, I found my confidence growing. We have snacks inside and - Awesome. - [Nathan] This was all so cool, 'cause it was just like The Bachelor. - I really like guys have It's like, my... - You don't like, you like black guys or..? - I just... - well, we'll talk more inside. I had never had this much and the only thing I had was to create a fake show. The logic didn't really make sense to me, but it was working and I was to try to get over my - Ladies, I'm your host, Anthony Napoli. Now is your chance to mingle, and get to know your Hunk, Nathan. - You gonna go there? Where you gonna be? - You want me to leave again? - Yeah. Maybe go into the room. - You're kidding me, right? - No. You want me to leave the room again? - Yeah. - Up here? - All right. (bright music) - Do you like me? - Yeah. - Do you love me? - Oh. (laughing) How can I tell the person that I love, I need to learn the Yeah. - I mean, I'd hate to so maybe I should ask again. - Oh, do I love you? I love you. - Oh, you do? - I do. I like him. He's a really nice person. But yeah, I love him. - [Nathan] But as the night went on, I realized it didn't We were both getting what we wanted. I got to work through my Sorry, I'm kind of shaking. - Don't be nervous. Don't be nervous. That's so cute. - [Nathan] And they got to be on TV. - I would love to have everyone This water is one of the It has a pH of 9.5. - I'd never been that good of a flirt, but I had the opportunity to practice with so many beautiful girls. You have beautiful eyes, and lovely hair, and - Oh, thanks, Nate. - [Nathan] My flirting - Do you ride motorcycles? - I don't ride a motorcycle, but I am a bit of a bad boy. But what happened next, I would've never expected. Oh, okay. I think that might be just, I mean, we've only been That might be moving just I just prefer to take No, it's still too soon. We need to take things slow. We just met. - It's okay. - [Nathan] In that moment, I wasn't ready to move but I finally knew what it was like to have a woman come to me. I realized I didn't to get women to like me. I just had to be myself inside with a TV crew filming me. But for a guy like me who's of rejection, knowing that I was desirable was all I needed to no longer I had accomplished my goal. So I gathered all the women to tell them that the show was over. I've accomplished my goal, there's no longer a reason to continue. - Okay. - Question. So you really, you really, did you get your, you got what you wanted You got your fear met? - I think. I think it Why? - I'm just wondering. - [Nathan] But others were happy for me. - You've done a great job. - Thank you. I had accomplished what I set out to do. During the course of making my show, I've run into a surprising I seem to rub the wrong way. - Take your pizza and - You know what you are? You remind me of The wizard of loneliness. - You're playing really a - Okay. I'm sorry. I'm not sure why that is, but I know that as a TV host, having a personality is bad for business. And that's why I needed to make a change. So for the first week of I hired a focus group that of American society to watch my every move from a nearby box truck. Tell me a little bit about your business. - We have the doors. - Smile. - [Nathan] Using a hidden earpiece, they were able to give me - We have Oak. - Express yourself with your with anything. - So you've got the best prices in town. That would help me become Wow, that's really cool to hear. - Yeah. There you go. - [Nathan] They told me how to - Make sure you look - Like 500 models of doors - Now, do you manufacture all - We manufacture most of - There you go. Good job. - [Nathan] And they also to make me more relatable. - I think a V-neck would go well with you. - A V-neck, really? - A blazer. A t-shirt - Yeah. That's sort of a That might work. - [Nathan] The only issue was that it was hard for while we were mobile. (group groaning) But we quickly found a solution to that by bolting down the tables while the truck was moving. As the week went on, I was able to evolve my style to become more in line with their tastes, and a more likable me was Good to meet you man. So tell me about your foot massage parlor. - Oh, there we go. - Body motions are great. - We do also do facial and the head too. - Now everyone loves - Oh, great. You looked out at the camera. - Great looking at the camera. Good job. - The group was absolutely Now is that a soapy water - [Masseuse] Just plain water. - Just water. Wow, that's so interesting. - There you go. - Nice. There you go. - [Nathan] And even though I it seemed like I had become But before fully committing to this, I wanted to put my new personality through the ultimate test. Last season on my show, I named Brian Wolfe, who wasn't too fond of - (bleep) Pink shirt and everything else. Ah, you're killing me. - [Nathan] But now, thanks to the advice of a diverse focus group, I was able to transform So for my final test, I to see what he thought of the new me. So I've come a long way So before I go in I just wanted to know, do I look okay? Is all the... - You look good. You're dressed, again, it fits you perfect. The V-neck and the blazer. - This is good? - Yeah. It fits you. It fits you. - So this is me. - This is you. Be proud of who you are. - [Nathan] With those encouraging words. I marched into Brian's house would win him over. Brian. - Nathan, how you doing? How you been? - I wanna tell you something, Brian. Last time I was here, and I wasn't really being myself. So I thought we could do this again. And this time you can - Look at you. You still a You know what I mean? - What are you talking about goober? What's that mean? - Goober just means like a dork. A nerd. - I'm a nerd? - You know you're a nerd. You've been a nerd your entire life. There's nothing wrong You're a nerd. - I'm not a nerd. - All right, well, you Seriously, if I throw a you think you can catch it? - I could catch the football. - [Brian] You can catch a football? - Yeah. I doubt you can catch a football. - [Nathan] Brian still didn't like me. And after all the work I - Don't be sad. It's okay. - [Nathan] Then when I I was shocked to discover distance themselves from - Its too low. The V-neck, it's just too low. - Why didn't you speak up before? I asked before I went in if this was good. - I didn't know it was - What do you mean? You - Not that low. - I asked you guys before I went in, &quot;What do you think of this look?&quot; - V-neck is this, not this. - You guys said you liked the look. - It fits you perfect. - [Nathan] That's when I with my entire experiment. This new personality was of four people who had agreed of a moving box truck. Of course it was flawed. In the end, maybe there to become the guy that everyone loves. But for a brief moment in time, it felt nice thinking that I had a chance. Can I get a little rubby-dub-dub? (group laughing) - Good one. Good one. Good one. - Alright. You know, making this show, and one of the most common misconceptions viewers seem to have about me is that I'm a guy who never smiles, and doesn't know how to have fun. And that really bugs me, because it couldn't be In reality, I'm actually very Now, obviously, I could So tonight I'm going to prove it. How? By spending the entire day and measuring his dopamine comparing them against a that he did have fun hanging out with me. To start things off, I went on Craigslist and in the strictly platonic section in order to track down a stranger who'd be willing to spend time with me. I then sent emails to a handful of posters looking to hang out. And the next day after fielding responses, I got a nice email who had recently relocated to Los Angeles and seemed eager to make new friends. So we made plans to hang But since this was all that I am indeed fun, I would need to get evidence So I paid a visit to Dr. Whimsy Anderson, a specialist in neurotransmitter testing to advise me on how to - When someone's having fun, you might see an elevation in serotonin, an elevation in dopamine, or an elevation of both - So if their serotonin when they're hanging out with me, that would mean that I'm fun. - For them, yes. - [Nathan] Dr. Whimsy said, I'd need to obtain two samples from the person. One before our hangout and a second at the end of doing several activities together. But knowing it would skew the results if he was aware of what was being tested, I would have to obtain Brendan's urine without his knowledge. So prior to his arrival at my office, I set up a tempting selection of beverages in the waiting area. Then in the bathroom, I put an out of order sign on the toilet and attached a clear plastic creating a reservoir that any liquid stream on With everything set and me I watched as moments To buy as much time as possible, I sent him a text telling and to wait for me in the lobby. After only a few minutes, he began browsing the selection of drinks, and eventually settled on a Dr. Pepper. Then a half hour later, the moment I've been as Brendan got up and hopefully to deposit what would be our baseline urine sample. So once he was done, it was time to head in Brendan? - Yeah. - Yeah, Brendan, how you doing? - Hey, nice to meet you. - I'm just gonna go to the - Okay. Yeah. - [Nathan] I pretended that I but in reality it was just so from the secret urinal while it was still fresh. Meanwhile, one of my production that our day was gonna be about Craigslist Hangouts. And Brendan seemed more - Yeah, sure. - [Nathan] With his sample sealed, I hid it underneath a hollowed out candle, and then lit the wick to that it was ready to be And with the sample secured, I could finally begin my day with Brenton. So, we're gonna go into a hat - Okay. Let's do it. - Yeah. - I mean, that's something, - Yeah, let's do it. Let's go. - All right. - Oh, this is pretty cool. - [Nathan] Trying on hats is And it was the perfect way to show Brendan that I'm the type of guy who doesn't take himself too seriously. This is what girls would wear, so... - Yeah. - I don't know about this one. But Brendan wasn't having And after we left, I was doubtful his raised by the hat store experience. So I was counting on to do the trick. You like go-karts? - Hell yeah. - Yeah? Right away I could tell - I've gotta go with red in Star Trek. - All right. Go-Karting is like normal driving, except the car is so much smaller. So the fun comes from the is too big for the car. And as we started going around the track, I could tell it was working as Brendan was smiling from ear to ear. (Brendan laughing) It seemed like his fun so I wanted to get his second But since waiting for his I had a plan to get this via blood test. The only thing I had to do You know, I was thinking, we should do something - Yeah. What do you, is - I don't know. We should like, we should like go for like Like, wouldn't that be crazy? So random. Just go to a lab and get - A blood test? An actual blood test? - Yeah. - I haven't done that. That sounds cool. - I mean, they're pretty fun to do. - I don't, yeah, let's to do blood test. It'd be kind of cool. - [Nathan] And with Brendan Coming off the thrill of go-kart racing, I wanted to harvest Brendan's So we headed to a nearby medical clinic where I had prearranged To make sure his levels didn't drop due to the unfun setting, I asked the nurse if an electronic fart machine on her person, that I'd be able to during the blood draw. Do you think you could do that? - I'll try my best. - My hope was that Brendan and that the fun of that would right as the blood was being taken. - Who's going first? - I guess I'll go first. - Do you want to? Okay, yeah. And with Brendan in his seat, it was time to see if this would work. (fart noise) - Sorry about that. (fart noise) My apologies. (fart noise) Sorry. - You have some gas today? - Nope. I'm okay. I'm okay. - Oh, oh, you're okay? - Okay. It's okay. (fart noise) - Sorry. - Yeah. I mean, you should - I apologize for that. - [Nathan] I mean, if your bowels are... - I'm okay. And we're just done. So I will be stepping out in a moment. (fart noise) Sorry about that. (fart noise) Upset stomach today. Sorry. - It's okay. (fart noise) - Apologies. - [Nathan] The farts were working, and it seemed like Brendan was Okay, so I'm gonna do mine - Okay, cool. - That was great. See, he was laughing. - Yeah, it was good. - Okay. So with everything I needed, it was time to say goodbye to Brendan. - Oh, okay. I'll catch - Flip side? - On the flip side. Means - All right, see you man. - [Brendan] Yeah, see ya. - [Nathan] But whether into actual science was still to be seen. So later that week I returned nervously awaiting the results. - His serotonin when he started The number was 87.22. The day of fun, it was 219.92. So it shot up 2.5 times - Well, that's huge. - They're very impressive numbers. So this person who was with but they were happy and wellbeing when they were with you. - Wow. That's amazing. Because, you know, I've, I think a part of me has ever since I was a kid that, you know, people maybe don't like And you know, even though they they're really not. And it's really hard to, you I think it can really take a toll on your self-esteem a bit, you know? But now if anyone questions that I'm not fun or is I can say, &quot;No, you're wrong. I am fun. And it's been Sorry, I just kind of opened up to you. You're not, I don't know. - No, that's cool. I think it's great. I think it's great. - [Nathan] There was no denying it. After getting the data from Dr. Whimsy, I now had scientific proof that I am fun. (epic music)