Professor Ramamurti let's begin now. I'm assuming all of you have relativity means. relativity, one is the special theory. that we won't do in any detail. will do in reasonable detail. asking some of you what is your the subject is all about. The Yale cap, Student: It's about systems. Shankar: Okay, two reference systems. then I'll come to you. the postulate that the laws of references moving in uniform and the speed of light is Professor Ramamurti I will take the last row there. Professor Ramamurti so what I've heard so far is same for two people who are both and the velocity of light's a Right. understand the special But it's a very old one. Einstein came. relativity at the time of Newton begin. all, it's an old one. illustrated in this way and it experience. all of relativity is to get I'm going to have our own high this is the top view of the And like in everything I do, number of dimensions, spatial dimension and of course So, the train is moving along You are in this train. blinds are closed because you That's not because you're New Jersey; for this particular experiment. you settle down and you explore You pour yourself a drink, you juggle some ping pong and you have a certain namely, your understanding of and then you go to sleep. some unseen hand gives to this 200 miles an hour. &quot;When you wake up, or not?&quot; Will this speed, 200 miles per hour--will it do that will betray that velocity? say I'm moving or not? I'm not moving because I'm on not going anywhere. reason, by the way, you cannot invoke. &quot;I'm on this train. And the claim is that nothing You just will not know you are Now, if the train picks up you will know right away. accelerates, you find yourself seat or if the driver slams on you will slam into the front of No one is saying that when the you will not know. detected in a closed train The question is uniform can that be perceived? So, at the time of Galileo and cannot detect it. out and Newton's laws worked for observer. if you leave something, When the train is accelerating, You leave things on the floor things will slide backwards. acting on it, accelerate; We are not interested in that. for whom the laws of Newton F = ma, then you go to sleep So, when I said everything I really meant that the laws of because if the laws of Newton everything will look the same. &quot;everything looks the same.&quot; happens when I throw it up or balls collide, laws of Newton. the laws of Newton will be added on to you. one thing. in the beginning -- let me just convenience -- and you got in you looked at this train and it If you lift the blind and look train and there's another you look at each other, When you wake up after this look outside the other train is The question is, responsible for this relative or maybe nothing happened to moving the opposite way?&quot; that you really cannot tell. between the two trains that That's very clear if you look tell what actually happened when Whether you were given the the other train was given a maybe a combination of the two, That's the word &quot;relative.&quot; if you have only one train, is that uniform velocity does anything you can measure. of course you can see the but you still cannot tell who You cannot distinguish between So, you have every right to and the other train is moving Once again, you can make this relative motion. now I'm saying it as if it is and it is. &quot;I'm not accelerating, in the other direction.&quot; you're the one who is barfing up your head on the wall; other person. the same frame, way.&quot; way, why am I throwing up? the rocket's taking off and the many times your weight, going through the discomfort. are at rest and everyone is no one else is in danger, So, accelerated motion will You cannot talk your way out of But uniform velocity will effects on the other person. but you cannot in any sense he's not or that he's moving and You can say, things are the same as before, opposite way.&quot; and you look outside and you but you see the landscape, everything, going at 200 miles direction, that probably the ground is not But that's just based on what I factors. it's completely possible to somebody puts the whole go to sleep the landscapes, the opposite way. but that's because we know in bother to do that just to fool But if that did happen, So, the reason we rule that out things not connected to the laws That's why we don't like to landscape because then we have a Open the window and look at know. relativity, that uniform motion both of whom are inertial, Each one can insist that he or the other person is the one who Of course, now, if the two trains were at accelerated. accelerated, I would know, time, and the acceleration is gone and that's when I say, All right. all that the laws of Newton are So, you find the laws of Newton you wake up, you'll get the same laws; I hope you understand that all the world around you come just We have seen projectiles and rockets; So, to say that things will of Newton that you will deduce be the same. When you show that, and for all. Here is the x axis and This is my x axis. The frame goes to negative and Pick some object sitting at the Now, we are going to first An event is something that certain time; For example, going off somewhere at some happened and the t is So, this is space-time. require Einstein coming in at We have known for thousands of a meeting with somebody, you've got to say when and The fact that you need x or, if you're living in three the fact that you need z and t is not That is not the revolution The fact that you need four nothing new. clear later. what an event means? An event is something that and when it happened, we give it an x and we Now, that's me, of reference the name S. just based on just my name. two observers, is called S prime. let's say, is you. going to be taken to be sliding So, let's draw a y axis We don't really deal with the give you a feeling, that's my x axis; y is not going to play a Now, you are sliding this way, and your speed or velocity is Some number of meters per right at some speed u. past me. here at the origin of then a little later you are So, that's your y frame that's your origin. a coordinate x prime. We arrange it so that when you you set your clock to zero and When you want to set the clock So, we will decide right when I'm at the origin of my origin of your coordinates. we'll click our stop watches zero. You and I crossed. that event? that event occurred at x be zero. your origin was also on top of zero and the time is just the Everybody has a single time, That is one event. event zero zero for both you and It is zero in space because my That crossing took place at my that's why my x is zero that's where your x time we chose to be zero by Then, we want a second event. is some firecracker going off Here is something I should the previous years. I imagine I am part of a huge moving with me. the x axis who are my they are looking out for me. if there's a firecracker my guys will tell me. agents. x you have a reporter, 3,4; watching. I really mean me and my train at the same speed, what's happening. later but we know this explosion I'll simplify it by saying I here at location x at So, this is our crossing. Then, there is a firecracker. I have to give some events &quot;coordinates&quot;]. x at time t. What do you say? your origin, you call this some the time is still t. the time is just the time. the same for everybody. &quot;What is the relation between That's what we want to think So, you guys should think What's the relation of x Well, this event took place at so I know that your origin is u times t. So, the distance from your I maintain is x prime is Again, I want all of you to These are all simple notions. time for the event that occurs Therefore, in a sense, event. ut. your origin to the event will be ut. transformation of coordinates in If you have an event--if you you can define it time, observer. t prime and t are There's no notion of time for There's universal time in It just runs. Once we have agreed, t = 0 and an explosion meeting, after our meeting for me and the meeting for you. events is the same for all This is called the Galilean What are the consequences of Well, let's look at the fact ut. Remember, everything is varying So x prime is a function function of time, particle. just one event, Let's give the object some it's moving to the right. according to me--I'm going to the velocity. according to S. standard name -- is the velocity S prime. I first took one event and I told you how to transform the the other person. x not to be a fixed so that as a function of time Then its velocity at any time according to you; according to me, which is u. This should agree with common For example, miles per hour to the right, and you are going to the right hour, you should measure the 200 and you should get 400. The two people will disagree on because they are moving relative This is the way you will add But let's look at the dw/dt is going to be u is a constant. That means you and I agree on We disagree on where it is. bullet's moving. acceleration of the body because velocity to everything you see. the velocity of the body is not velocity of the body is not because the constant added will Or, if the body has an we'll both get the same answer So, that is the common So, if you like, a. So, the acceleration of bodies one frame of reference to speed. All right, so let's look at which is md^(2)x/dt^(2) body. you say d^(2)x prime over your body. we wanted to see that the because the acceleration's the Then, I want to convince you also going to be equal. eventually you will get the Let us not consider one body, Two bodies are feeling a say, gravitation. of course, a force in three force in just one dimension. gravity is equal to 1 over x_2. force on 2 due to 1 will be x_2. in three dimensions but this is I want to call it gravity. the coordinates of the two So, I will say _1 over x_1 - And m_2d^(2)x dt^(2) is minus 1 over have forgotten constants like m_1 and They don't matter for this So, here are two bodies. other and I've discovered what It's 1 over x_1 - I don't care if it's 1 over x_2 or x_2)^(2); What's important is, - x_2. the same two masses. You will say, _1 prime over x_1 prime minus Maybe I will--I'm sorry. I can tell you what you will Given this is what I see, see. We know that the acceleration going to write this thing as dt^(2). the acceleration according to acceleration according to you. the right-hand side as x_2 prime. If there are two bodies feeling moving train, bodies is the same for you and because x_1 ut and x_2 ut. the difference between the same for you and me. mass is postulated to be the get the same law that I get. your acceleration will be the the force you attribute between same. will also deduce the same You can also say it differently. am now in a moving train and I I'm going to get the same F Because as seen by a person on = ma. but I have the same acceleration same force. I'll complete the second m_2d^(2) dt^(2) will be minus 1 minus x_2 If this is a little difficult, I'm telling you that if I F depends on the particles, find the same laws of motion same that I get because we have as a. same because the force depends particles. which train you're in or it's constant velocity to the frame So, if you like, Newtonian mechanics the So, not only is it something and what not, is the reason everything looks In other words, platform and you and I were F = ma, and the train is going at a if you can look through the in my train, you will say they nothing has happened to you. also say F = ma because I will see the same If you see a distance between I'll also think it's one meter. square of the distance, we'll agree on the we'll agree on everything. ma is valid, mechanical phenomenon will That's the reason things behave Yes? weird reason, reference, the rule F = what would happen? Shankar: You mean if the Student: Hypothetically. Shankar: Yes. that happened. you wake up in the train, around you, it will look ma. when I went to sleep it was when I got up, the train is moving. that uniform velocity makes And if you look outside the the other train's going You can now no longer say, I'm not moving&quot;, say, &quot;Hey, F = ma works It doesn't work for you. moving.&quot; status with other inertial F = ma worked will say it doesn't work, are moving. if it makes perceptible considered as relative. find each other moving, which I am at rest and you are because for me F = ma Well, that's not what happens. you find it works for both of maintain we are not moving. forward to about 300 years. no problem with this principle later, electricity and magnetism and electromagnetic waves, And then, it was discovered is just electric and magnetic You don't have to know what right now. phenomenon. And the waves have a certain and that velocity is this famous meters per second. &quot;For whom is this the For example, waves on a string, in our course. answer that depends on the mass density of the string and person for whom the string is at But if you calculate the waves to you, you hear me slightly travel is the velocity of sound That is calculated with respect the waves travel in the air. us are sitting on the planet, whatever, doesn't matter, carried along so even if the as far as the velocity of sound it won't matter, medium with us. is the medium which carries the electromagnetic waves? the medium is everywhere everywhere? Yes? through the vacuum of space. Shankar: Right. space. we can see the stars, everywhere. &quot;How dense is the medium?&quot; the medium, the more rapidly in most of the things that we For example, and when we look at sound waves or in iron, you find in a very that the velocity is very high. which is called &quot;ether,&quot; would very dense to support waves of But then, planets have been years and years and not slowing It's a very peculiar medium. we are all immersed in this send light signals to different And the question is, relative to this medium?&quot; This medium is all pervasive. stars so it's going all the way And we are immersed in this and What is our speed relative to That's the question that was Well, to find the speed you calculate the velocity in So, here's the medium in which This is planet Earth going At some instant, velocity with respect to ether. the velocity of light as seen c to c - V. suppose the waves are traveling Let me draw it this way. instant at the speed V. - V because part of the are going along with the waves. So, Mr. Morley--they did the experiment. to c. Student: The speed of Professor Ramamurti no, but you cannot jump to that If you are following Newtonian it should be c - V. Student: It means that Professor Ramamurti that's--not so fast, following. than that. Student: It means that to the ether. Shankar: At what speed? Professor Ramamurti Because you don't have overthrow everything because you But you've got to put yourself early 1900s. anything. you're going at the speed zero. that it is incredibly fortunate wants to do the experiment, respect to the ether. But we know that luck is not you are going around the Sun. But that velocity was such that rest with respect to the ether. later, when we are going the you cannot also be at rest with But that's what you find when You find every day you get the know you are not at rest. for sure. Student: Did they turning [inaudible] Shankar: Yes. solutions. when you move one way or six way, you get the same answer So, one possibility is, don't be ready to do So, one answer is, You and I talked to each other six months from now; The speed of sound is published right? miles per hour. from day to day? tell me why the speed of sound even though we are moving? Student: [inaudible] Shankar: No, Even six months from now, in this room. does it matter what time of Student: The medium is Professor Ramamurti we are carrying air. space, it carries the air with with respect to the medium. with you, then it doesn't matter So, they tried that. Earth carries ether with it the Then, it's not an accident you ether because you're taking it But it's very easy to show by you cannot be doing that. why that is true. with you and you cannot leave it people were in. that's going to the right at a You move to the right at some I expect you to get a speed But you keep getting c. velocity of light; light. we believe. opposition to this law here. bullet but a light beam, speed c and you're u, That's the inevitable physics. And that was a big problem. by doing different models of And nobody knew why light is fashion, so that's when Einstein &quot;I know why light is behaving It is behaving in this way this way, if the speed of light then when I wake up in this measure the speed of light. now I get to get a different give me the speed of the train. to detect the velocity of the just by doing an experiment So, even though mechanical laws same, laws of electricity and somehow they would betray your And that would mean uniform change because it changes the measure. the fact that you keep getting electric and magnetic phenomena hide your velocity. won't tell you how fast you're electromagnetic phenomena. it was very obvious that nature which mechanical laws are the different. phenomena, whatever be their going to a frame at constant one. because it even applies to I'm sure Einstein knew very But he believed that natural either the principle of And that is something you Because that was the only He just said, through 10 in our book obey through 30 where we do E&amp;M These are all natural phenomena principle, which says all relative to motion are Now, that's really based on a scientists generally are opposed we all have some bias about the there's no question about it. physicist. laws of nature will have a beauty and a certain uniformity That is a faith that we have. otherwise, I wouldn't bring it but it is certainly the credo at least all physicists, the laws of nature and we put a that the laws of nature will do Who are we to say that? wouldn't have a system in which electricity and magnetism We haven't run into somebody We don't worship a certain believe the laws of nature obey So, even though scientists or believe in design by any they do believe in this we are trying to uncover. you could be wrong in making but here it was right. notion that all laws of physics of relativity. that light behaves in this way this way, of relativity, phenomena do and electrical cannot be the case. Student: Why would that Professor Ramamurti Because in the case of the you can take the medium with there is no such experiment you See, in the train, with you, there's no surprise But we know we cannot carry the that comes from That's why the velocity of fundamental velocity on which So, the two great where the postulates come from. restatement of the relativity I'll just say it in one Exact wording is not important. equivalent. &quot;Equivalent&quot; means each one of other one to discover the laws The laws of nature, related to our state of motion. and you're moving relative to And if you and I find each you have as much right to claim and I have as much right to are moving. between observers in uniform There is no symmetry between motion. creates effects which can So, no one's trying to talk whereas you can talk your way That's the first principle. time of Newton. inertial observers are natural phenomena, And that is a generalization, just mechanical. And the Second Postulate, there is just no way to deduce is that the velocity of light motion of the source, If a light beam is emitted by a it doesn't matter. moving rocket, All people will get the same light. reason why the speed of light is Professor Ramamurti That's why it is a postulate. on. any other speed, everybody, that would have to be In the final theory of three velocities that come out There is only one velocity that people. of light. be light itself. gravitational waves travel at It's not just the light. of light being a single number for everybody. solved a big problem because he way; it is part of the big conspiracy But you will see that you have once you take these two you have restored the phenomena. You've gone beyond mechanical phenomena. to give up all the other physics. We are saying, miles an hour, You get into your own car and hour. getting 200. going at the speeds I mentioned about a pulse of light, And you've got to agree that is daily notions or with the w = v - u. w has got to come out to And that's not a property of So, what we are looking for is x and t and prime, are computed and applied to the you get the same answer. So, here is how we are going to Now, let's think about it. right at speed c. three-fourths of c. you should get the speed of the c. So, what will I say to you? I say you should get c/4 And you're finding velocity by and dividing by the time so you one-fourth c to c So, what could make you do that? Student: If I perceive or you're contracting your then you're going to measure should have had a greater length Professor Ramamurti So, one option--Let me repeat I will say your meter sticks When you and I were buddies and we agreed on the meter stick. moving train. wrong with your meter stick. Specifically, have shrunk. if they have shrunk to it is very clear that you would what I expect. Student: Time may be Professor Ramamurti running slow. for four seconds and you thought That's why you got four times or it could be both. And that is why it is an That's why it is also amazing years old would simply follow and take it wherever it takes foundations of space and time So, even though you restored brought it back to the front, give up your notions that length We used to think a meter stick a clock. out one second, I expect it to be ticking one not. length measurement or time And that's what we're going to So, here's how you find that Let us say that--Maybe I'll do this is the key to the whole You remember now, you call it x prime and And according to me, ut. So, x prime equals x in the old days. x = x prime + ut. that maybe t and t But that's not all we will do. me a length x prime, I take any length you give me g [correction: to get the length according to And you will take any answer I it by the same factor. In other words, length, x prime + ut backwards for me. according to you, was x prime + ut. t prime may not be the Then we say, lengths, I will multiply them by according to me. expectations, same g; the two observers. if I think your meter sticks [correction: should have said is a number less than 1, of having meter sticks which are It is very interesting. short and you say my meter that's an absolute difference. of using shortened meter sticks, of g. g now. that both the distance and time Professor Ramamurti possibility that they are that they are different. space and something's wrong with So, we'll not assume that t. possibility. nature will say t prime happens to length alone. more symmetric. that the symmetry is the same? Shankar: Because that is the observers. sticks are short, You should be able to accuse me between you and me is you are moving to the left. velocity, each person says the will say that any length you of g. anything I call a length, factor of g. (x,t) was a right? event. carefully. remember that was at the origin x equals to t prime equals to t prime At that instant when our let us emit a flash of light. touched, there's a spark, the light signal is detected That second event, it has a coordinates it has a coordinates (x The same event is given We've already used the fact different but we are saying not equal to x; to t either. Okay, but now let's write down What is the relation between prime in this particular pair of What is x prime? pulse after certain time? location of the detection of the t prime? Student: [inaudible] Shankar: He is saying understand that? statement? The second event was the Light pulse left the origin and has come to this point, and the ratio of the distance light. me, the light went to distance So, that's the relation of also. results and combine it with this and we will do that now. left-hand side by the left-hand the right-hand side of that I hope you understand that in in the old days--Let's see what I will say, x prime is origins have shifted by an And you will say x is with the same time. different. I don't buy your length. length, I say &quot;no.&quot; I'll scale it down by g So, if you multiply the side, you get xx prime, g^(2) times xx minus ux prime t Now, divide everything by Then, you get 1 = g^(2) If you divide this by xx over x prime. prime, you'll get t/x. times t/x, x prime. So, what does that mean? x prime is 1/c and 1/c because of what I If you want, prime over x prime equals x equals the c. And I'll get 1 = g^(2) c^(2) because this t prime over x So, that gives us the result root of 1 - u^(2) over If you plug the g back is x - ut divided by 1 - u^(2) over Now, once you do that, between x prime and lower equation and solve for I don't feel like doing that. equation once you've got t prime. equations and solve for t That detail I won't fill out, is t - ux over So, I've not done every step things you need to do the one There are equations up there x prime to t and x prime in terms of the other equation that you prime in terms of x and And this is the result. Okay. because it is the greatest it's called the Lorentz And we've been able to derive what little we know. you can be a kid in high school There's no calculus or anything other than being open to the behaves in this strange way. Student: How do you get Professor Ramamurti c? you're quite right. t/x is 1 over c I really meant to write x = Yes? Professor Ramamurti If you define g to be transfer lengths from you to me, root. Professor Ramamurti I can also tell you other Let's take this formula here. velocity is very small compared That u/c is a very small This number is almost 1 and I - ut, which I know to be the velocities. I'll get minus of x - answer, not even close to the At low velocities, over c much less than 1, Galilean transformation. c goes to zero. factor here. x - ut and here, neglected, you get t prime equals So, this coordinate the Galilean transformation if is much smaller than the So, the formula really kicks in velocity of light. Student: [inaudible] c? Shankar: Well, answers, right? theory will not admit velocities light. formula. single velocity that you wanted also the greatest possible that no observer can move at another observer that is equal speed of light. which came out to be a constant is also turning out to be the velocities. statement that no observer can light, but we'll discuss it more But you have to understand what what is the meaning of this What is it telling you? Lorenz transformations, What are these numbers and Would you like to try? one thing that they tell you is greater than c Professor Ramamurti no, I don't mean what happens What is it relating? x prime t prime? Okay, so x prime would who's traveling at the higher And [inaudible] distance is going to seem Professor Ramamurti See, I'm not even telling you equation. and t in this equation? x prime and t Student: x and for a person who is in an who is not moving. Shankar: Right. prime and t prime are who is moving at the speed of Professor Ramamurti distance and time, distance and time? the length of the distance will Professor Ramamurti happening at xt; Student: Of their Professor Ramamurti zero, zero. What's happening at x Yes? the event. Shankar: It's the event. event. the formula is connecting. and in time, right? That something has a spatial coordinate, according to two The observers originally had coincide when they passed; And one is moving to the right Then, the claim is that if one and t for one person, the right at speed u, coordinates x prime and between x and t prime is this. Student: The two don't they observe different Professor Ramamurti The fact that an event has mean that you are observing For example, extinguisher. it's obeying F = ma, The coordinates of the fire origin is quite different from Student: [inaudible] Shankar: You mean in these Yes, in these new equations, that's correct. inertial references, Professor Ramamurti Yes. Newton themselves have to be F = ma will be modified modified laws will reduce to which is why in the old days it But there will be new laws, property that when I measure agree with what you measure. Student: Does individual still have to agree? Shankar: The coordinates of to person. the laws as deduced will be For example, attracted to each other by orbiting around their common If I see them, law of gravitation with _2 over the distance between the points I think it is. at the same two stars. complicated motion, drifting a little to you, the same as what I get and the the same as what I get and the looking at that star would be deduce. the laws being the same and the No one said x prime and equation there. We are looking at it from But the fact is that force is is the same for the two people. The laws will be the same but For example, don't even have to go to you can stand on your head, minus of my z coordinate; z, you will give a minus But the world, messed up and want to stand on you have every right to do that ma. the way we see events may coordinates, be distinguished from the Okay? if I'm on the ground, it goes up and it goes down. train, you would think it went So, no one says the chalk will For you, it will go like this F = ma, That's all you really mean by So, what you have to understand are the way to relate a pair of Here's a simple example. plane, there's a point here. it's simply a point in the You measure it this way and coordinates. different coordinate system with that person will say that's y prime and x the same. x prime is x cos&gt; y&quot;] etc., and y prime is th is the angle between So, the point is the point. the two people, coordinates. like the collision of two cars, different people. The new part is that the rules x't', is quite different new rules. understand. why did Einstein get the credit dimensions instead of three? t were present there, The point is, to t no matter how you whereas in the Einstein theory, scrambled into x prime x and y get you rotate your axis. variable that doesn't transform it into a coordinate. Einstein is four-dimensional each other when you change your That's what makes t now was something the same for all