The U.S. Only six years after a Supreme Court legalize betting on games, the sector is And that may just be the beginning. have this sort of raw growth potential This market has grown so much in such a Growth in products, channels, platforms. It's not just a land grab anymore. leaders are having to innovate, come up tent. the next decade, maybe longer. platform for daily fantasy sports. sporting event was legal only in Nevada. Columbia permit some form of sports As the map has expanded. The company went public in 2020 at a Now the figure is closer to $20 billion. than we've ever been. changes in early 2024, the moves were We got what we wanted out of it. neatly into a strategic plan to maximize He's been a great addition to the CFO seat. years now and really has been tremendous, our analytics function as well. bring someone up within the company That's usually the best way if you can We had seen so much of him and he had the business. I knew he understood it. Overall, seems like you're feeling good I am with the rapid fire iteration... of stepping into the CFO role? closely with every aspect of the company we're spending money, what was the company. internally and keeping track of all the business, but then taking all that and message and sharing it externally has For me, that has been a great learning Do you like the challenge of it? Internal promotions send a message of But make no mistake, Ellingson sees We're in an evolving business, and we're at and locking in on a fixed view think are the right metrics to be we're constantly evolving and tweaking be performing. different ways and trying to figure out understanding how this is successful, or something different. where you are, but instead constantly formulas to better understand what's agility, its peers. perfectly in step. and with strategy. foundational thing. looked to to make decisions about where to tactically day to day is the decision Jason Robins is a fantastic visionary. the company needs to be and the steps we Jason is the visionary and I'm I'm the DraftKings hit a milestone in the second public company, repeat that performance in the third it still raised expectations for the Is this a new era for DraftKings? cash flow negative and you're operating to when you're self-funded and you're your destiny a lot more. profitability now. Does it increase pressure? I mean, once you start making profits, of a sudden you're valued on a multiple theoretical, think. When you're cash flow negative, should be working on and you're very delivering against that. the world of what you can work on is a different ideas, and it requires more are prioritizing on the most important most value. DraftKings has bolstered its sports provider Sports IQ and in-game betting It also purchased lottery app Jackpocket, revenue stream and positions it to The bigger players, they're all talking really make a lot of money, much more so betting is. on, you could play iGaming 24/7 anytime there'll be a real nice growth strategy already have the legal sports betting. As and grown, have been coming down. customers and engage current users with There are distinct customer types who different casino games. two as well. customer from one product to another. It definitely increases the long term What we see is customers that use multiple of products are more engaged, are more When we were doing the due diligence for our customers were actually using the a lot of optimism additional revenue stream that was product that we were trying to build. leadership in sports betting. top spot in market share. How important is it to stay number one? competition as much as we think about We want to be number one in terms of the want to be number one in terms of we want our products to be rated the decisions with what we're developing, products and new innovations, we believe market. sector allows the company to play the It's not under pressure to cut costs. growth, you don't need that. where we want to be and where we believe incremental EBITDA is not coming from any It's coming from increased revenue. because we're growing our revenue so We want to grow our revenue into our need to reduce the costs as long as our cost growth to look like. opportunity to drive efficiencies and we And we're in the fortunate position necessarily to make next quarter, next It's much more about how do we build the term so that we can win competitively For all the positive momentum, there are State tax rates for online sports Illinois recently passed a tax hike that may follow suit. opportunity to use sports betting to pension, whatever its tax dollars are And they've raised taxes significantly So all of a sudden, all of the gaming In August, DraftKings said it planned to four states with high tax rates. citing customer feedback. ultimately in some form passed to the I think it'll depend on how prevalent it time will tell. levers that you can pull, but for the and see approach. headwinds from different aspects of the costs and vendors and resourcing that And we'll continue to look at what the other company does, and we'll figure out Wall Street seems comfortable with prospects. since the start of 2023. authorized up to a billion dollars in share decisions to make on capital allocation. to follow when it comes to this? It's early days of where we're being cash flow that we we think could be used mechanisms. step by step and figure out what the Online sports betting is now legal in States are also starting to legalize These trends are driving a growth spurt DraftKings and its peers. intense. developing better products is critical We do have some very clear lines of So on the sports betting side, very much bet mix, continuing to build out the out ahead. really having a great content library, releasing new games. and foremost, creating great piece. driven, analytically driven test and the effective means of getting customers And then if we did a good job with the we get them to try it, they will it. demographically. and more women are starting to place If you're going to have to grow your new target markets. And where they their initial marketing, they've and that's kind of intertwined with the tournament, which has historically been a the women's tournament, for the first event, at least in the finals. there's not just a singular demographic Just this past WNBA season BetMGM bets on the WNBA. numbers around the Super Bowl and the Super Bowl was up 51% over the 2023 Do women behave differently on Are there different products that you marketing? board? WNBA, you talk about how it's growing so Is that because more women are coming on No, that's because everybody is They wouldn't be growing that fast if And if you look at where, you know, on are going, they're still mostly doing And women's sports fans actually are a the types of sports they want to watch. from the office. Paul Liberman, one of DraftKings and technology. him. to ensure this army gets the resources We're launching new products-- every releases, not even just one release. site. products, both internal and external, them they don't. internal products for, you know, trust for trust and safety that consumers may basis. that you want, to make sure Allen says developing it? our mission. It needs to be it needs to be It needs to be stable. these products, it's not just I think let's go. here's why It's a cool idea and here's deliver value. forecasting that and running that And so on the back end, we're able to it, let's make sure it's doing the value And if it's not delivering value, let's there. we're tracking it's not just innovation, but it's management on the back end. budgeting of new products? continuing to develop, and we have a our annual operating plan, but we're engaging and making decisions on And Paul and I have a biweekly meeting newest, latest ideas that are coming out And we make some very hard decisions to us with more information. business. come in the door and we're reviewing decisions about what comes next. basically ensures that the company knows, that at any time if they have an idea, couple of weeks. With millions of DraftKings has huge amounts of data to and their teams can observe in real time center. given day are processing hundreds of We monitor a lot of metrics. different trends that we're seeing, what The data we have up here is it's a It is a snapshot of a user experience, in a And so whether positive or identify when somebody's having a good experience. mean many things, some more serious than Many states have seen a sharp rise in since legalizing sports wagering. they're supporting responsible behavior If we think about this as a matter of finance, no gambling operator should be experiencing gambling problems. customers, because that's who drives a Over the course of my career, right now, the industry, which is a good thing. to it. industry to do right by their customers. Sheet, a tool for users to monitor their choices. we noticed that our users have the same And so we've tried to weave that into statistics and the data and how they're It really highlights to them what tools able to manage their play. It's important for the for our entire customers have a great experience, when end up being great customers. us to do. lot of tools in the back end. Stat Sheet. problematic behavior. you know, some of those data points are agents and our VIPs. And with the LLMs we're able to review those, categorize protection team and they can evaluate Is that the number one use for A.I. else that's important to really use that That's a really critical use case, but organization. We're an innovation based company. as ours is, anything that helps us get out faster, we're going to go after it. opened the door for legal sports betting has become one of the world's largest But worldwide, the industry has been Australia, Italy and Brazil among the revenue. company. Is there a timeline for that? company and look more globally? international expansion opportunities in great opportunity that we thought was go after it. necessarily a time of urgency to do And in fact, probably not the most ideal So if anything, I think we would steer But obviously we're always looking and is compelling, we would go after it, an M&amp;A target or something like that. two and three priority is to be That's what we promised our That's the investment thesis for As far as going in, actually the anything else. opportunities. capital where we have a very high bar we have a lot of great opportunities at How do you decide, okay, this this is a this? comparing it against all the other opportunities we have facing us. much as it is, requiring as much focus as the opportunity here is high and we advantage of it. them going global, really in Europe or Asia because they're But one of the biggest opportunities Betting is very new A lot of room for growth, for players. going to be the next big opportunity for There are a lot of emerging markets all The US is obviously the biggest and most take our eye off the ball there. markets and right now we're very growth Alan Ellingson will be weighing a host Robins chart DraftKings path forward. ahead. the next decade that most excites you? surface of DraftKings as an entertainment We have opportunity to expand our single destination for entertainment. DraftKings that keeps you up at night? the company and expanding outwards, it's there. We're I never want to see us complacent as a I never want us to think that we're Entertainment is an evolution. constantly change with it. The hardest part of being the CFO is -- You have to do that a lot? We have a lot of people with great ideas got a great idea. And we have to look at that in the the different parts of the company and going to take right now and what are the later on? somebody that's poured their heart and soul going to be successful and having to say yet. It's the right thing to do, but it's So being just like a touch of a Yeah. do you think is the skill you found most you're in now as CFO? offs have to do. different teams and saying, If we do this, we can't do this. advance, to be able to call them out to And that's what executives and companies who can align all the pieces and figure the profit possibilities going forward. for how companies should structure work. would you give to someone who also has You have to really want it. single day you're on, and especially in there's a slew of sports going on, out This is not a job that you retire into. you step up because it's a whole new And be ready to say no and break some Be ready to say no, be ready to break But, you know, when you're able to say it's successful, there's a thrill, You just never feel else. that was really big. This is Bloomberg.