It's funny that in the history of the Super NEVER changed. Okay, in the very very early days, and anime. &quot;We've been better!&quot; But as for before 1996, Mario never spoke. And voice - &quot;It's a me, Mario!&quot; - the whole time, But Princess Peach? She's a completely her voice has changed again and again and again. Mario&quot; - with a clip from Mario Odyssey - &quot;HEY!&quot; If you didn't know the context, you would So, I started researching into just what it's a lot more interesting than I expected. to answer one simple question: Why has Well, to answer that, we 1996. Sure, Peach had a few voices before then. &quot;Mario, Luigi!&quot; I mean, who could forget her But as for proper, Nintendo sanctioned For the last couple of years, a team of developers big Mario game, called Super Mario 64 - you finally finished. Or rather, they finished the presented with this text here, then they would Japanese developers sent the game off to America Now, one of the people in charge of this process go on to found Nintendo Treehouse, but in 1996, She would be sent a rough translation of and her job was to rewrite that text She'd done the same thing for The Legend of and clearly Nintendo were pleased with the do the same thing for Super Mario 64. Any text Now, after sending the English script back to Thescript was approved, which was obviously a good Super Mario 64, Nintendo wanted to include proper had a voice for Mario himself - Charles Martinet while, by then - but they didn't have a voice for going through the lengthy and expensive process voice actor, they figured, why couldn't Now, with no prior voice acting experience, Swan but after thinking it over, And so, in mid 1996, she entered the recording the instructions from the developers were to try easily - she later described this request as a and later that year, the game was included. Millions of players around the "Dear Mario. Please come to the Yours truly, Princess Toadstool. Peach!" Now, while this was all going on, another team completely separate Mario game - Mario Kart 64. Kart, and the developers wanted to show the world one thing they wanted to include was full Japanese offices, a similar series of events were Nintendo of Japan's head of Public Relations I'll admit, the details are unclear, but just like Princess Peach's voice lines, with no prior acting and before too long, they ended up in Now, listening to those short Asako Kozuki's Japanese accent pretty clearly. those original voice clips for Princess set recorded by none other than Leslie Now after this, Nintendo actually for a bunch of different Mario games. But for a professional voice actress for the first time. Their one requirement was that the new actress One person auditioning for the role was Jen and voice acting for TV Taylor had liked mimicking other people's mimicking Peach's voice wasn't really the audition process and quickly earned the Those early days were by no means those first few games that I did really trying to sound like this other person, and a little more comfortable with the role. But yeah, Over the next decade, Jen Taylor's games. &quot;Ooh, look at that!&quot; There were, however, decided to remake Super Mario 64 for the DS. They but they couldn't just copy across because they'd rewritten some of the lines. asked Leslie Swan if she'd be willing to come To their delight, Leslie Swan said yes, and "Dear Mario. Please come to the castle. I have baked a cake for you. Yours They don't sound identical but they definitely have the Now, save for this one off Leslie Swan appearance, the Princess Peach ball remained in Jen You see, Jen Taylor had been working with the But in 2005, she decided that she wanted to spend do while recording Peach's voice lines. So, she This left Nintendo in a bit of a bind. They someone who could take on the role full find a temporary fill in. The person chosen Mills wasn't trained in voice acting at all, but that she seemed like the perfect person Nicole Mills was brought into the recording Princess Peach. And these lines ended up Partners in Time, and New Super Mario Bros., among Now, after the summer was over, Nicole Mills in trouble. Their new game Super Paper months. With Jen Taylor at the children's theatre for anyone who could voice the princess in their How about Leslie Swan? She was still working as for one final time, she was dragged back into the Now, while Leslie Swan was recording Peach's voice to fill the role of Peach with a more permanent these auditions was Samantha Kelly. Kelly was a in the past, but when her agent sent her the was peaked. Although she'd actually never she'd been wanting to move away from commercials I was a little girl, I used to make all kinds different voices, and I would drive my mum cause I would be like "yahh yahh", So, this audition seemed like the perfect chance a well known character. So, she showed up and then headed home. Meanwhile, Nintendo started audition, when they came across Samantha Kelly's. long, Kelly was informed that she had got the The first game in which Samantha Kelly voiced Charged, and after recording her lines, Samantha her first Mario game, and it certainly wasn't a And so, if you play a Mario game then the voice you're hearing is almost She's been voicing the character for 14 years, and You can hear her in Super Mario Odyssey, Mario But what about all of the many ex-Princess kept working as the head of Nintendo Treehouse founded - for 27 years, running what is regarded localisation departments. In 2017, she left her Asako Kozuki continued working at for at least a decade. It's a bit but she may well indeed still work there today, Jen Taylor continued to work in voice and, her most famous role, Cortana from the Halo Plus if you have a Windows 10 computer, the voice of Cortana (the virtual Nicole Mills went on to study graphic design Craft Beer design firm in Washington. And finally, Samantha Kelly still works with in each and every Super Mario game. Princess Peach has changed a But one thing has not changed. Whatever whatever minigame, whatever race, the and loveable. And the credit for that goes to each Hey, thanks for watching to the end! Oh, but wait, don't go! I've actually been working on my own subscribe to the channel. I have made a video I'm sorry! You can subscribe if you if I haven't put you off. If I HAVE put you