- Here we go again. Dubai. A supercharged progressive city that's not afraid to push the boundaries. From its opulent lifestyle to its jaw dropping to some of the most exquisite Dubai is always on the forefront when it comes to luxury and exclusivity. It's a world of possibilities (rock music) Here, they dare to dream big, really big. But when you're living the finding a moment of peace and tranquility can be challenging. And here in Dubai, than arriving at your luxurious (car engine revving) Hey, everyone. Welcome to Dubai. We're back on Billionaire's Row to tour another incredible property, a newly constructed modern estate built by Alpago Properties. As a company, they always just like us. Never worrying about time, money, or effort it takes to create a one of a kind asset. And this is something So, without further ado, let so we can see it inside. (soft music) This home was completed And on the exterior, the property has a very, Extensive use of travertine throughout. Metal screens right in the center to provide additional privacy. And it is designed in a way to provide as much privacy since we're so close to the street. Now, to the right, you can that's above the driveway that leads you to the lower level where we have an amazing garage. So, in total, this property three above grade, one below grade. Now, coming to this entry walkway, it takes us all the way to the front door. Front of the home is Palm trees. There's actually a 1300 year old tree that was imported from Uruguay. Beautiful stainless steel sculpture. And walkway takes you where we have this massive pivot door. And now, let's go inside. (soft music) The foyer of this and it draws the attention Double height ceilings, travertine walls that wrap so there's a beautiful But more importantly, right in front of us, we have these true floor to facing this courtyard where we have a 1600 year old bonsai olive tree that was imported from Italy anchoring this incredible estate. And this glass courtyard and life to this estate. I'm out of words. - [Cody] I am too. The fact that it's 1600 years old, that means it first in 400 AD. - What a beautiful frame to look at as you walk into your property. Then on this side, we have this Bluthner piano that costs around $275,000. And Cody, let's get a closeup. It's like a piece of art. Every single hardware, metal piece is polished to perfection and it's just gorgeous to look at. - [Cody] It really is. - It complements the entry really well. Now, follow me this way. Before we talk about the staircase, I wanna point out that we have This whole way leads to the movie theater, which we'll cover later. But now, let's talk about Beautiful minimalist steel frame and each one of the with stone inlays. Glass railing on each side which gives this staircase And on the back, you can see the marble wall with fluted details. And in between, they have these vertical LED strips lighting up the staircase. And this is just a beautiful design. Again, goes up to the upper floors as well as the lower level which we'll cover later in the video. Now, follow me this way. On this wing of the house, we have the dining areas, kitchen, living room, and obviously it all opens But before I cover this section, I want to talk about the So, we have five bedrooms, nine bathrooms, 19,245 square feet of enclosed area on the market for 260 million dirhams, which is around $70 million. And I wanna give big thanks Babak Jafari with B1 Properties, and of course the developer, Alpago properties for making this tour possible. We're excited to be back in Dubai. And as always, you can find more information in the description of this video. Now, continuing our tour, I wanna take everybody to the living room, which is this beautiful elegant space. Minotti couch, Henge light fixture above, two chairs. And this room doesn't have a TV because this space is Your motorized sliding glass doors seamlessly open up this and it looks incredible. Now, coming back to the seating area, I want to talk about this coffee table. Never seen a piece like this. Cody, let's get a closeup. We have two metal scorpions and a beetle on this side and they have the same table Have you ever seen a - [Cody] I haven't, but - It is super cool. And once again, it's awesome that your infinity edge pool just blends to the sea and you have this peaceful, - [Cody] I was gonna say from it looks like the water comes - Incredible. Alright, Cody, let's take Now, behind this living room, we have the first informal dining area. Gorgeous stone table seating for eight. Look at all the details Cutlery, beautiful flowers, chandelier above. And they have this mirror that actually runs all so it connects these spaces together. Then on the back, we with black marble countertops, base cabinets, uppers. It's just a really nice dining area. And now, we are at the kitchen. Beautiful island right in They have waterfall edges. This is a Nero Marquina marble, your first sink, gas cook top. And on the back, you can see some of the espresso maker, your oven, microwave. And Cody, we need to get a closeup. This entire contemporary And their drawer setups, as you open 'em, they light up. And look how neatly - [Cody] That's literally how I want my kitchen drawers to look. - I mean, it's just a pleasure to look at these dividers, everything, and the way these cabinets operate, super smooth. Your gas cooktop, pop-up vent. And to add some tranquility they place this beautiful water feature with a sculpture right in the center. And this is another So, you can open up your get some natural air. And what an awesome view to look at. This house is just incredible. Now, follow me this way. Second dining area. This one is more on the formal side, a little bit more We have a beautiful marble table seating four six, light fixture above, track lights on the ceiling. And these are adjustable spotlights, so you can decide and configure the space and light it up beautifully. We have a gorgeous dresser here. And look at these mirrors. You actually get a reflection of the sea, which is a nice touch. And of course, just like we have more motorized opening up to the backyard. And let us know in the comments below how many times I'm gonna mention motorized sliding glass doors because almost every single set are motorized. Now, there's also a glass which is a nice lounging and kind of expands the Now, you may think that's Follow me this way. This kitchen also comes and this is how you access it. Cody, come on in. We also have Poliform cabinetry here, stone countertops, gas cooktop, uppers, commercial sink with a dishwasher. And on the other side, we have two massive fridges that are nicely paneled. Definitely good size. And I gotta say, - [Cody] I was gonna say the same thing. The bronze adds a nice - Without a doubt. Definitely spacious service kitchen. Now, follow me this way. This is where we have The door to my left opens where we have a ton of cabinetry, two washers and a dryer. The door behind me so you have an easy access for the staff. And the door to my right where we have two single beds and a full bathroom. Now, I wanna leave the service hallway because this walkway actually takes us back to the entry of this property. And now, welcome to the movie theater. Off of its entry, we have a small seating bronze tinted mirror. And on this side we have with floating shelves, popcorn machine. Warm welcome to your movie theater. And this is where the space starts. It is a nice cozy space projector on the back. And I really like how they with these built-in light panels. Then we have star lights on the ceiling and the space feels very contemporary. You have the speakers which are Bowers &amp; Wilkins built into the walls. What an amazing room for you to just sit - [Cody] I completely agree. I love shooting movie theaters. And it never gets old coming in and having that acoustic dampening just take off every single echo. - For sure. I feel like when I walked into this room, my echo and my voice totally changed because so nicely insulated. And a lot of times these they have good sized movie theaters. But for me, I would rather or screening room like this, but I would spend the insulation, paneling to make sure the viewing And with that, we're Now, let's jump back to the landing so we can continue our Again, we have the front door here. And I can't stress the fact that these picture windows have no beams in the center. Look how tall this section alone is. They had to crane this in and - [Cody] Yeah. I cannot imagine transporting a piece of glass that big. - And I'm sure it costs but it's so worth it to be able to see this where you feel like you It's awesome. - [Cody] Hundred percent. - Alright, let's continue. Now, there is a powder bathroom here that I want to quickly show to everyone. Antonio Lupi vessel beautiful AXOR fixture, Armani grey marble walls, toilet on this side. A very elegant powder bathroom. And on the other side, we have the office. This is such a curated room. Look at this desk. Light fixture above, mirror panels, chairs. And on this side, they have this metal And even though this is the way they curated every it works. And you have another mirror So, you can watch your movies or just watch the news Well-designed space. Follow me this way. Across the office, we have And off of its entry, we have the built-in Poliform cabinetry, king size bed on this side, padded back wall, beautiful light fixtures that come down from the ceiling. Room is very, very cozy. And of course, since it comes with its own bathroom. Come on in with me. Gloss finished cabinetry with marble tops, and same marble runs on the back where we have the mirrors, wall sconces, Antonio Lupi sinks, AXOR fixtures, toiletries, and of course, your And the vein character of this marble is really intense and you can see all the It's a beautiful bathroom. And it faces a courtyard, So, SAOTA designed the of this property. And for them, bringing natural light and giving each one of the was very, very important. And that's why throughout the tour, you'll see these unique corners, small openings or courtyards like this, which is a very, very nice touch. Now, going to this side, we have a sliding glass door And now, let's walk into This space is so incredible. Double height ceiling, beautiful travertine and bookmatched Minotti couches, coffee table, this gorgeous chandelier And the volume of this room is phenomenal. Without a doubt, my favorite space in the entire house, we have custom light fixtures. Look at those light fixtures that come down from the ceiling. And on the other side, and again, another bookmatched wall that runs all the way to the ceiling. Cody, what do you think? - [Cody] This room is absolutely stunning. These massive sliding glass doors, over looking the fronds is honestly mind blowing. It's gotta be what? Close to 20 feet. Easy. Yeah, I've never seen And the amount of light that - Couldn't agree more. And like looking at the room, the furnishings details, accessories, the curation of the space. Again, I can see Alpago's I mean that Bentley chair And when you're ready, you come over here, hit the screen and you can actually just open up these motorized and these massive panels slowly tuck into the wall. This is crazy. - [Cody] You look tiny from this point of view right now. - I am tiny against Like, you just walk out to your backyard. The view that's behind me is insane. So peaceful and tranquil. Your infinity edge pool, which is 21.5 meters long, pretty much blends into the sea. Now, I wanna first take We have a nice outdoor seating area here. And then, space leads you to this sunken seating area which is super cool with a fire And look at the view This pool has a glass side so you can see inside of the pool. Beautiful tile work, your mega estate, palm trees, incredible weather. Life is good in this house. - [Cody] Life is good. It's February in Dubai. It's nice 72 degrees and I'm just like wowed of Palm Jumeirah. Right down the beach the newly built hotel and residences and it's like, just a really that makes the experience - Couldn't agree more. And we are just beyond to all of you. All right. Now, let's focus Like I said, it's 21.5 meters long, 4.9 meters wide, 1.4 meters deep. This pool is heated and cooled. On top of that, there's a swim against jet so you can train in this pool. And the tile design here This is a company from Spain where you give the and they cut every single piece of tile and the corners perfectly for your pool, so when you install it, it looks immaculate. Now, on the other side we have What a space. You have these lounging pods. Then outdoor seating area. And in the center of this courtyard, we have this beautiful olive tree. I'm trying my best to throughout the entire tour because I feel like I'm But what an incredible thing to have in the center of your home. Seriously, it's beautiful, it grounds the property, it's open on top. And wait till you see the This opening just kind of Now, I've seen this tree before and this house as well during construction. And it is nice to see this Execution looks flawless. And once again, Alpago they always do a phenomenal job. And we're just excited to be in Dubai and excited to be part of this tour. - [Cody] I couldn't agree more. This home is beautiful, and Alpago does an incredible job. - Without a doubt. Alright, Cody, let's continue our tour. These sliding glass doors open up the living room You have a nice lounging And this is the covered section We have a ceiling mount lounging bed. It's nice that this section is covered, so shaded. And we have the dining area to the right. Now, going this way, in front of us, we have with a steel pergola seating for eight and it is located right next This is a Novara system. And we have seen this system before. It has a sink, fridge, grill, cooktop, all incorporated in one design. And to my right we have a door that opens up to a half bathroom And now the most exciting we gotta go to the beach and show everyone the What do you think so far, Cody? - [Cody] So far, it's been incredible. The fact that you can take to your private beach is amazing. The water color is perfect And we've been staying on Palm Jumeirah for the past week or so, and so we've been experiencing these views and this lifestyle and I just, I'm speechless. It's really, really cool. - It's amazing. And like, Palm Jumeirah is such a unique development. The fact that you have it's peaceful and tranquil. And that's one of the Without a doubt from the exterior, one of the most striking - Do you agree with that? - [Cody] I completely agree. - Look what's behind me. That top floor cantilever It looks like it's floating up in the air. That courtyard, look how massive that with sliding glass doors all open. We have the primary bedroom to the right, junior primary bedroom And the contrast between is so striking. I just love this house's Now, you may think this property It actually consists of four levels. And the level we're about to tour is actually below grade. (soft music) Welcome to the lower level where we have this I mean what a space. Recessed in floor lighting, this unique ceiling design, water feature on the back, all these exquisite cars. And you can park up to 14 cars here. But what's so impressive about this space is the fact that we are And I'll go more into and build a garage like this later in the tour. But for now, I wanna focus on some of the cars here. First one is this beautiful $2.5 million. Love the spec and the color combination. On the other side, we have iconic car from Japan, right hand drive. $1.5 million because it's 1 of 1. Then on the other side, we have a Lamborghini Sian Roadster, 1 of 19, $4.7 million. Beautiful car. Next to that is a LaFerrari Again, that water wall continues Then we have a Pagani They made hundred of these, goes around $3 million. And the car next to that with the Weissach Package. Now, this is an amazing car and I actually got a chance who is the CEO of First Motors. It was actually a lot of fun. We drove it during the and we had the top down. The way it drives, how it's an incredible car. And if you haven't seen we'll make sure to leave a link in the description of this video. Now, I want to talk about and what it takes to build these garages. Obviously, in the past, we toured a lot of Alpago And most of the homes they built had these subterranean garages. Incredible garages, in fact. I got a chance to talk to their team and understand what it takes to build a subterranean garage on Palm Jumeirah. So, this is how they do it. They use steel I-beams to shore a parameter around the property and then they excavate the sand. And spent about a month draining the water that's inside of the excavation area. Once they have it all dried up, they layer their foundation with waterproofing on the exterior, then the concrete they they put another mixture in there to make sure if water it immediately turns into waterproofing. And then, once the concrete they waterproof it on the inside as well. That way, they're creating that sits in the sand with sea around it. How crazy is that? - [Cody] It's actually insane. That's like an engineering marvel. - It is an engineering marvel and it takes months to just get this space before they can even finish it. But I tell you what, it's worth it. When you live in Dubai, when you live in an there's a good chance you're and you would wanna keep Now, Cody, let's go to the other side. We actually have one more car left. Bugatti Chiron Super Sport 300+. Out of all the cars in this garage, without a doubt, my favorite, $6.5 million. - [Cody] It's crazy. And you're pretty lucky that you got a chance - I sure did and it was a lot of fun Driving a $6.5 million car in another country. Kind of a surreal moment. (rock music builds) (car engine revving) Take this car from me. I don't wanna drive it anymore, it's too much fun. It was an amazing dream the fact that I actually drove it. The way this car drives, how it sounds, it's incredibly refined I was so happy, you know. And it's just incredible in this garage. Now, Cody, let's take everybody to the entertainment section of the lower level. But before I talk about that, look at this glass wall and how it curves. That's your driveway that brings you from the And instead of covering up the driveway, they have embraced it and made it part of the design. That's why you can see curving the driveway and going up. Very nice touch. Now, we have a pool table here, which is this really cool design. It really complements the space. And on the other side, as we continue touring we have this beautiful foosball table. Cody, guess how much this table costs? - [Cody] Probably $10,000. - More. - [Cody] 15. - More. - [Cody] 20. - It is $20,000. - It's insane. But look, it really complements the house and you have beautiful cars, your foosball table is - [Cody] That is true. - Now, on the other Again, you can see the curved glass. And here, we have this incredible bar. All onyx with backlighting. Dual elevation. Look at these ceiling mount and what a cool way to display all of your spirits. Bar seating on this side. And this bar also comes with a DJ booth, which is located right here. The entire lower level is wired with built-in speakers. So, it's ready for an amazing party. And once again, what a beautiful backdrop. Now, going to the other side, the entertainment section continues. Now we have this screening room. Comes with a couch, another beautiful Bentley chair, coffee tables, your PlayStation screen projector above. It's just a nice cozy space for you to hang out with your friends. While they're at the bar, you can be seating here. And then at the end, we have a room that's very surprising. A small spa area. First space I wanna show everyone is the walk-in shower. You have the stone section AXOR rain head above. And then, on the other side, we have a half bathroom with this really unique pedestal sink, beautiful reeded details. And the last door at the end opens up to the massage room. Now, what makes this is the fact that it is because the entire roof above us is a skylight. And they even have a motorized if you want some additional privacy. It's just a nice zen area for you to relax and get a massage. They even have this with reeded wood panels. Another great space. The lower level of this (soft music) Now, welcome to the second We have four guest suites on this level. First I want to take everybody this way. To my right we have the elevator landing. And this is the bridge to the right wing. In fact, we are on top of What an incredible view. We have two additional rooftops with more bonsai trees. Fantastic backdrop. - [Cody] I completely agree. It feels like you're kind like a contemporary art gallery. - I agree. And it's like these trees, this landscaping adds so much tranquility to the home. And then you have travertine And I love that they carried throughout the property as well. - [Cody] Definitely. - Now, let's take everybody to this seating area. They called this space the pajama lounge. We have two couches, beautiful And this bookshelf was And I wanna point that out because I think it looks very exquisite. I love that it's thin framed and it just looks very elegant. Now, this seating area services So, let's go right in. Beautiful hardwood floors, nice warm tones. We have the TV recessed so it has this floating effect. And then on the other side, we have the sliding glass doors opening up to a good sized balcony where you can enjoy the outdoors. Take a look at that and even get a little peek of Dubai's skyline from this bedroom. Now, going back in your queen sized bed, marble back wall, ceiling mount light fixture, these beautiful bedside tables. And I also really appreciate the fact that each one of these guest suites are designed like a hotel suite. Every little detail, accessory, toiletries are thought out. You just want to come in and enjoy the space. And it gets better. Cody, follow me this way. We have the walk-in closet The entire closet system here is Poliform. Again, you have your hangers, drawers, shoe racks. It looks so elegant. They even have their own branded hangers. - [Cody] Ooh. I didn't even see that. - There you go. - Poliform thinks of everything. And let me pull everybody this way because we have a pocket door here sealing off the bathroom where we have marble floors, marble walls contrasting vanity on this side, polished AXOR fixtures, glass enclosed shower. And I also really appreciate that this bedroom suite sits on its own on the right wing of this property. Now, let's jump back to the landing. So, we can check out the which is located right in the Follow me this way. We have beautiful leather wrapped doors. Again, Poliform cabinetry And then on the other side, we have an open bathroom. Sink is right in the center. Again, the sink finishes beautiful light fixtures. And going to this side, we have a glass enclosed walk-in shower. Again, same marble continues. It's actually bookmatched. And we have beautiful AXOR fixtures. And Cody, I don't know if If you look at the glass, you'll realize it is a and it clears up as it - [Cody] Yeah, it's a cool little ombre. - Exactly. It's a nice privacy detail. By the way, we have the water closet here. And to add up to the privacy, they also installed which is a nice touch. Now, the hallway takes And as you walk in, this is the view you get. Breathtaking. I mean- - [Cody] It almost looks fake. It's like an artwork. - I know. It's incredible. I can't believe that But you have seamless glass railing, sliding glass door opens up to a balcony. And then, you have your with beautiful padded back wood paneling, built-in desk area. Definitely a really cozy room. And I know many people are gonna ask, well, where's the TV? They were kind enough to install a ceiling mount TV here as well. But let's face it. If you're staying in this bedroom, you may wanna just enjoy these views. - [Cody] I was gonna say the view is your TV. - Without a doubt. Now, that's it for the I wanna take everybody back to the landing because we have two more bedrooms to see. The first one we're gonna talk about is the front facing bedroom which is actually located on this side. The bedroom starts here, has the same hardwood floors. It is definitely a good size. Comes with a small makeup area. TV's nicely recessed into the wall. The cabinet below it looks awesome. Then you have the king size bed. Again, look at this And just like I mentioned earlier, this bedroom, just like the others on this level, gets a really nice outdoor space with privacy screens, and it looks super cozy. And lastly, let's not and the full bathroom with a walk-in shower. Really nice guest suite. Now, the last bedroom we're touring is the primary bedroom and it starts right here. Off of the entry, you see this spacious courtyard area dedicated to the room. And then we go straight Take it all in. Look at the width of this space. You have built-in Poliform cabinetry. So much storage space. Thin framed doors, and they run up all So, you're really maximizing the area. Two ottomans. And then, we have an island on this side. And Cody, let's get a close up. Look at this Louis Vuitton case here. I'm sure this piece is - [Cody] That's crazy. - It's crazy, right? And then going to the other side, I want to actually open As you open 'em up, LED lights turn on. So, you get to see every single shelf. How elegant is this? - [Cody] It's a beautiful touch. - And when you're done, you just gently close the doors and lights will eventually turn off. And like we saw earlier, every single guest suite in this house gets Poliform cabinetry. And again, it's very, Now, on the other side, we vanity, separate water closet, walk-in shower, free standing tub. But first, let's go It's a beautiful private outdoor space. And it is nice that it's all dedicated to the primary bedroom. And keep in mind, around Palm Jumeirah, properties here are very so it's hard to create outdoor But with a clever design you can have amazing spaces like this one. - [Cody] I agree. It's like a little oasis and you still get so much - 100%. And also, great natural air and natural flow to your bathroom. And again, your beautiful freestanding tub with your AXOR fixture, TV on the other side. And then we go right in to the walk-in shower. Armani grey marble walls. Look at the size of that rainhead. It almost fills the entire shower. And getting out, we have the separate marble fabricated vanity with two sinks, beautiful AXOR fixtures mirror wall that's framed in brass, toiletries, details, and even these towel holders are so exquisite. And this is just a beautiful bathroom. And what's left is the bedroom itself, which is just as impressive. Massive king-sized bed. And I really like how they push the bed to the back of the room to bring additional privacy since we have the sliding These doors are automatic. And we also have the blackouts right here. And my favorite detail in this bedroom is this 3D marble wall. It gives so much character to the space. And let's not forget these And between the king size bed, the beddings, the headboard design. This section looks very, very cozy. Now, on the other side, you can see the sidewall and how it curves. It's all leather wrapped with beautiful reveal as well as the ceiling. Now, welcome to the seating area for the primary bedroom. Couch, marble coffee table, built-in section here with reeded details. And I just love the color contrast between leather panel, wood panels and the marble on the bottom. You can see all the accessories. And to warm up the space, they brought the same marble here with a mist fireplace down below. And let's face it. In Dubai, you don't need a real fireplace. And now, Cody go to the other side so we can show everyone how this incredible bedroom just opens up to the outdoors. Seamless transition. You have a spacious balcony and views of Palm Jumeirah. This is incredible. And this (soft music) Welcome to the Sky Lounge, an incredible entertainment area that is located on the top And it takes full advantage of everything Dubai and Palm Jumeirah has to offer. Now, off of the landing, we go straight into the bar. We have two beautiful Henge islands, light fixtures above, base cabinets to the back. And this space also which we'll cover later. And I wanna point out the fact that these Henge islands look like sculptures. They're beautiful. - [Cody] I completely agree. I haven't seen a cut in between the two countertops like that, but it's a nice way to break - Exactly. In fact, the first henge And then, on the other side, you have extensive amount all your Poliform base cabinets, massive picture window so you have a nice view here as well. And you're just flooding the Then continuing this way, we have the second henge island. And Cody, let's get a closeup. We have Gaggenau gas cooktops, right? These drawers, because this island is stone fabricated, these drawers are so heavy that they need to have motorized hardware to open and close them. - [Cody] That's absolutely insane. - That is crazy. And again, it's a super cool piece. And you have so much storage space. Two wine fridges, additional cabinetry here that is nicely decorated. There you go. You have in there as well. And of course, since we have all this there's a full bathroom here with a walk-in shower as well. And that's the elevator landing. Now Cody, let's turn everybody to the other side. You can easily fit 50 to a probably more, and be able to entertain and take advantage of Now, we have sliding glass doors here seamlessly opening up to this terrace, and it's nice and private. Open on top, multiple seating areas. But Cody, we gotta bring This is a cool feature, your outdoor movie theater. Can we show everyone the screen here? Built-in speakers. These lounging pods. And again, it's incredibly private. They have the metal vertical screens, pergola design on top. And to top it all off, they have these really cool speakers throughout the property, including the outdoor cinema. These are speakers. So, you have amazing sound throughout the entire outdoor terrace. Now, like we mentioned earlier, we have outdoor seating And then, on the other side, we have this amazing jacuzzi with a glass front, zero edge. And these are the views you get. Life doesn't get much better. This is awesome. I mean, what a great way to entertain. Be with your friends, enjoy your surroundings, and then when you're ready, walk right back in because the top floor continues. Now, you have another lounge here with a beautiful Minotti So, you have all these different zones for you to enjoy throughout the day. Gets better. If you are in the mood to work out, you also have your gym on this level. Now, we've been pointing out which means we are currently And let's just say if I had a gym like this, I wouldn't mind working - [Cody] Definitely - Without a doubt. Now, talking about some we have the dumbbells, weights, stationary bike, treadmill. And when you're ready, you just walk outside to your front facing balcony and enjoy these views. Now, over the last few years, we have toured some amazing homes on Billionaire's Row. And all these homes, again, developed by Alpago Properties, had amazing top floors or rooftops. But personally for me, It takes advantage of the You have so many different entertain, hang out with your friends. Or if you wanna come up here to work out, you can do that as well. And I think that's the that this home provides. And again, I can't stress it enough, you get to look at these (energetic music builds) (car engine revving) (energetic music continues) All right, everyone. That's it for the tour. And thank you all so much for joining us on another episode. I wanna congratulate everyone that was involved with this project from its design to completion. And of course, I want to give Babak Jafari with B1 Properties and the developer, Alpago Properties for making this tour possible. I can't thank them enough for trusting us to showcase their incredible And it's been amazing come to reality, come to completion one by one. Now, as always, you can find more information in the description of this video. And lastly, if you enjoyed our tour, give us a like, subscribe. And we'll see you guys on the next one. (energetic music)