2014 The Year of Culture Supported by the Ministry of Channel One Star Media Babich Design The Russian Society of War History present They don't give us any provisions. you shall share your sausages with "Nicht verstehen" demonstrating but the food is gone now. I slapped him how they should behave. We're Orthodox. and everything else, as Stop! Stop! Let's go, honey. The wide Rhine separated the Russian A year passed since the times when from Russia. Winter came again. of the river that the soldiers Thousands of miles separated and the war was leading - Oh, Your Excellency! Is it far to Paris from here? - To Paris? The devil alone knows! Let's go! - Matvey? What, Trofim? Let's go, hungry man! Thank you! WARSAW BERLIN LUTZEN DRESDEN KULM LEIPZIG CHAMPAUBERT MONTMIRAL FERE-CHAMPENOISE PARIS THE FOREIGN CAMPAIGNTHE Episode Three. Towards After a defeat by Leipzig, led the remains of his army to France. and their allies from Prussia and for two months. The couldn't dare move forward and put that didn't give a moment's peace to One of the participants of the campaign "The Russian Emperor objected as he wanted to move to However, on seeing France's probably due to their unsuccessful May I? I beg your pardon, Your Excellency. - Bring the plates. "According to the report of a Russian soldier in the uniform took a half of pound of sausages Samoilov? No, Sir. I beg your pardon. - "And a bottle of rum". "...and caused a bodily insult"... What rum? I don't know anything about rum! It's not that rum. Bring the glasses. Here you are. Thank you, Your Excellency. I wish we could press We have been faring with neither dry We may die out of hunger We won't die with Samoilovs. The Austrians and think that they did what was needed. If we go back home now, in less than a trust me! They consider What about our Father Tsar? It's none of our business. I'm sorry. May I go? You may. Thank Samoilov and ask - I beg your pardon? The allied troops were tired. that was delaying the advance They considered the Rhine to their war was supposed to end. Austria it only willed to weaken his might. to risk his army after the French The Prussian general Blucher was "Der Kerl muss runter", which means However, that brave general England achieved its goals too. was restored and Britain didn't The representative of England that Emperor Alexander should Alexander was the only monarch The burnt Moscow called for revenge. However, the Russian Emperor that peace with Napoleon today Napoleon was gathering a new army. He lost the support of the states There was no money in his treasury. Devastated by the war, France People were reluctant and even resistant Alexander I knew very well that it He insisted, persuaded, demanded, and to make his allies advance towards France. At last, on January 1, 1814, the Russian troops crossed the Rhine by Alexander was standing by the he recalled the last year and ended on the French border. Alexander and his army went where and their duty before their Take the flour and I will, Your Excellency. You know me! How are you harnessing the horse? Hello, Cossacks! Do you have Pass a bridle under the saddle. The grain is not for me. I'm too We got some dry bread and meat What a great grenadier! He is great! He has been with us since the and has been following Why didn't you eat him? Your Excellency! How may we? This goat is too bony anyway... Stop talking! Samoilov, hand them Oats? For a goat? I have none! Enough talks! You didn't have the rum too. Oh, brother! It's a real German goat. He is no less an ally than an Austrian. This is politics, brother! An against the dictator against whom both to capture that enemy of the people! - To capture? Bonaparte? Yes! This is the reason It's a good idea to capture... OK, I'll bring some oats Vaska is a goat of the Russian army. He is waiting for his portion of oats! Sire! The enemy armies crossed The advance is continuing all Wellington is in the south. and invaded Southern France. The war, and only the war I'm going to the army. But Sire! The mobilization is going on. Ney! Ney! We'll defeat them! and Berezina, by Lutzen and Dresden! They lack unity. On January, 13 the Emperor left He'll never see his family again. where the people were still Napoleon benefited from the Austria wasn't interested and held the advance of the However, the Prussian Field longed to seize Paris. Therefore, between Napoleon and Schwarzenberg and his main army All Russian units were and submit to the foreign Against over 200,000 soldiers of about 70,000 soldiers who were delaying The fight seemed to be doomed to However, time showed that the Frenchmen's The allies' units had to stop at the and block numerous French When it came to a battle, it turned separate units out of all the Marshals knew the correlation of Napoleon, on the contrary, He tried to inspire both marshals Emperor decided to attack the weakest but still On January, 29 a battle of Brienne took fought 30,000 of Napoleon's troops. Blucher retreated and united On February, 10 by Champaubert attacked the Russian corps who had only 3,700 people at his disposal. were repulsed, but the forces were unequal. The Russian corps used up all losing about 2,000 Some of the soldiers succeeded in However, wounded Olsufyev Olsufyev Zakhar Dmitriyevitch, participated in all the military A hero of the Borodino Battle and all He was repeatedly wounded. On trying by Champaubert he was hit with He was freed in a few weeks after After the first successes, His marshals could see General Bonaparte and Egypt, who inspired the heartened soldiers and On the second day he turned to and the Prussians were staying. The battle ended with a The allies lost 8,000 people while By Chateau-Thierry where and 10,000 of the Russians were about 3,000 people losing only 600. "I found my boots from the remembering his lightning-fast It's incredible but from the 10th to and scored four brilliant victories. Blucher's army was threatened He was forced to join The first campaign against Paris was lost. This is how the things Your Excellency! - Give it to Samoilov. - What do you mean? It's wine. The bottle broke. - Karpov, is that you? What's wrong with you? Are you wounded? - It's a trifle. A sabre touched me. A bullet hit his shoulder He'll be fine. It's a pity Give him some rum. There was no rum, Your... The bottle broke! He'll be fine, I can Order to distribute vodka among - I hope to see you again. After a row of hard defeats, losing of the allies slowly Napoleon wanted to However, the allies who now concentrated their forces. so superior to his army in numbers. So, he chose a different way of breaking through to his whose garrisons waited The Emperor didn't worry about wouldn't dare attack the capital The Emperor was simply luring He moved northeastwardly through the town of Arcis-sur-Aube. with the troops of Schwarzenberg and So far Napoleon's plan was working. Schwarzenberg and his Here are the news from General "Sire! Don't fight him. He is luring you away We advise you to move Towards Paris... I told them. Towards Duke Wellington was moving He saw himself winning the And one more thing -- Napoleon is trying The Austrian Emperor prefers to see Schwarzenberg won't attack Paris. We'll see... The outcome of this endless war now It was a war that was waged Empress Ekaterina the Great. On March 12, Alexander I to attack the capital of France. Schwarzenberg was pursuing who was luring the allies further The Russian Emperor caught up with and described his plan to them. Alexander whether Prussia would help When the king agreed, Alexander Schwarzenberg couldn't He sent the order to advance To confuse Napoleon he sent a cavalry to pursue the French army. as if looking for premises to make Napoleon believe in the Emperor's footsteps. Meanwhile the allied army On March 15, the armies of Blucher By the village of Fere-Champenoise of Marshals Marmont and of the National Guards that were After the battle, the Napoleon found out that the enemy moved on March 27. The Emperor in 180 km from Paris. I'd never believe that any general The Emperor rushed to save Paris. Outrunning the army, he arrived Only 50 km now separated By April 5, Napoleon counted and moving to defend the city with The allied armies reached the About 100,000 soldiers, were preparing for a storm. the French had about 26,000 and from 6,000 to 12,000 of The high fighting spirit of the for the speedy arrival partially compensated Napoleon was actively with the Austrian Emperor. Schwarzenberg that ordered him to refrain However, on March 30, the same day the Russian and the Prussian armies Prokhorov! Push two guns Stop! What is it? Oh, bro! Look, he is in Unlike my ragamuffins! Where I beg your pardon, Your I've just graduated I only came into the army I set down to work at once. Do you see that tower, Ensign? Let your Make the enemy shut up. Prove that Yes, sir! Battery, aim! He is so young, Your Excellency! Fireworks! Fire! Your Excellency! I can see that! I can see He didn't stain himself too! Prokhorov, Well, German eagles? Guards, go forward! Ermolov and his army and set his batteries there. The Ermolov later joked that he The King of Prussia didn't Against his expectation, the Prussian medal of the Black However, the actions of the General who awarded him with the medal This medal was only granted Alexander entrusted Ermolov on capturing of the enemy capital. By five o'clock commanders Marshals Marmont and Mortier sent his Mortier was the governor of Moscow It was he who ordered to blow And now it was his task to save The Marshals still hoped for and tried to delay the start of the They used all means at their disposal One of the French parlamentaires over to Schwarzenberg. In that letter, that he had already agreed on concluding and called for the Austrian They are still pinning and the peace with the Surrender of the city with its Hurray! When the terms of the surrender they declared that such They said that their soldiers and would fight for every street the artillery cannonade The Russian troops of Count Enough words, gentlemen. I'll order Otherwise, you won't recognize the places where your capital used Well, Samoilov, you're in Paris now! The parlamentaires returned to Paris. to discuss the final What a brilliant victory it is - with the allied forces Look, don't be mad at us for our for the visit you honored The residents of Paris were they were afraid that the same However, their curiosity was The Parisians couldn't Crowds gathered on the Montmartre At that time, General of the with an order to blow up a That explosion would destroy almost a On hearing the order, the commander Colonel Lescours He demanded a written order No answer was giver, so Lescours decided Later Alexander I awarded Lescours with diamond decorations of the At 2 a.m. the capitulation was to leave the city without hindrance and artillery, leaving all the Congratulations! Your name is now Orlov Mikhail Fedorovitch, of one of the famous Orlov He fought by Smolensk and Borodino, and later in Dorokhov's He was awarded with a for signing the capitulation of Paris. One of the founders of the "The Order of the Russian Knights". He was arrested after the Decembrists' on solicitation of his elder The Battle of Paris became one of of the 1814 campaign. They lost over 8,000 soldiers including Still, Tsar issued a "Treat the residents as Win over them with generosity not following the example All night through the army was into the capital of France. Many of fought the French back in Suvorov's the defeat by Austerlitz; many defended They have been driving the enemy through the entire Europe. They and finished their great In their ragged clothes they didn't look presentable Rayevskiy troops were dressed in and looked more like The units of Eugeniy Wurtemberg could find no more than a thousand However, the soldiers cleaned their and mended their uniforms 1,200 km from the Neman to Moscow! Over 3,000 km from Through the fire of the battles! in dust, dirt and snow... They wore and were now cleaning and It was still hard to believe that it for so many years. The Russian the most important parade of The Austrians who weren't unexpectedly pushed forward. They insisted that they had been the first However, they were asked The order of entering The Prussian Guards followed by the Russian and the Austrian Grenadier Brigade with On March 31, the guards entered with the beat of the drums, At the helm of the large retinue of generals and officers of different and the other monarchs entered Paris. The entire capital, young It was an incredible event. Paris last when the English seized the city Now the former enemies were received Thousands of Paris residents admired and handsome officers. One couldn't choking on soot and powder smoke. The French women were looking out from the crowds. They ran up to the and to see the Russian Emperor, They expected the Russians to be and the Cossacks to be bearded Cyclops. Well, Alexei Petrovitch, They used to honor Napoleon I don't know, Sire. However, have been said by a monarch to What was the Russian Emperor He was sure to recall and confusion during He vowed that he wouldn't utter a word left his country. He kept his that he spared no efforts to save a crowd of his former enemies Was it the kind of a reception Napoleon However, Moscow met him with avenged on their ancient capital Alexander inspected the parade of After that, he walked to the estate of of France Talleyrand to The Russian Emperor decided and to make Napoleon abdicate. Napoleon stayed in Fontainebleau in favor of his son. He still believed both Paris and his throne back. had already changed sides to toughen the conditions. On April came to him. His former comrades-in-arms Berthier. McDonald, Caulaincourt, Ney... Sir? They demand absolute abdication. Ney! We shall storm Paris! It will be hard to make the Sir! They demand your abdication! If I'm the only impediment I'm ready to abdicate. Let's storm them! We'll defeat them! On April 6, Napoleon signed an act of on behalf of himself and of his heirs. enthroned Louis XVIII, the executed during the times of the of the allied monarchs, Napoleon in the Mediterranean He was allowed to take a By April 11, everybody deserted only General Caulaincourt, a doctor The rest went to Paris to start The residents of the Fontainebleau Sir? Sir? Sir? Sir? Sir? Come here! Help! Napoleon's personal doctor when the Emperor barely escaped in Russia by Maloyaroslavets. It must have decomposed with time. On April 20, the packing was to bid farewell to his guards. and General Petit bowed the banner These soldiers endured all of the the mountains of Italy, the fields They were ready to lay down their They proved it with their He cared for them like He threw them into the fire knowing that they would Now these moustached giants According to the historians' estimates, who perished during the of killed and 530,000 missing who died not on the battlefield Foreigners fighting in rows of Napoleon's According to different estimates, On April 16, Napoleon set foot aboard and sailed to the island of Elba. A grandioso historical poque came to This is what the Englishmen He did it, didn't he? Your Excellency... Not really. It's so close! It is in a way but... You won't You may throw it into the river. We Other people will do it. You're But you shouldn't have entrusted The Englishmen will set him Or he might escape. We'll have Samoilov. You're a fool! Vaska! You didn't eat the goat, did you? Good afternoon, Your Excellency! Hello! As I can see, the goat and of the Russian army now! I was awarded with a rank for the merits before the state in the bloody What do you think, will Bonaparte Of course, Your Excellency. Satan himself favors that devil. is to save the Orthodox people This is what I said! He will we'll feel so bored! It's all right! A new one will appear. There is nobody like him! In spring of 1811, talking to the that in three years he would On May 3, 1814, precisely in three the failed master of the world He had an island of 300 square with three small towns and Napoleon was permitted to take three He was announced to and allowed to keep personal the island was constantly In Europe, the aristocracy The monarchs and diplomats were the new re-division of Europe and A palindrome, a sentence that appeared in the English language -- The most famous prisoner in An Emperor without an Empire, However, less than in a remembering the name Script by Marina Bandilenko Photography by Dmitry Kiptilyi Art Director Make up by Galina Korolenko Narrators - Sergey Chonishvili Music by Maxim Voitov Produced by Valery Babich, Vlad Ryashin. Commissioned by Channel One, Russia