Careful... the choice you make will Will you choose blue? Or red? Dude, why do you look like that? Make any noise! Sir, my mouth is shut What do I have to do with this? The entire world must watch and -Especially you. I am from Dakahlia, an Arab Egyptian farmer. What do I have to do with this? C'mon! Don't you want to have an opinion Every pill represents a face. Your opinion doesn't matter either way. But we are supposed Oh! I see! So, what does this red pill do? This is the Republican pill, the right-wing party. Oh yes, I love parties. I have met nice people there, What party? I'm talking about the conservative party. They love values, family, Well, that's nice! That is excellent! Give me this red pill. But they will steal your oil, and they will start wars in your area. Bastards! My land? and my oil?! No, no, no! Forget that one! What does the blue one do? This is the democratic pill. It means liberalism, and equal opportunities for all. That's the one! Get me a cup of water, But careful! They will steal and start wars in your area. Man! They are also bastards! Old man! Pops! Old friend! You must choose one! Why does it matter? You guys are cheating! I will go talk to the governor! What? No meal for you then! Hello, dear viewers! Welcome to a new episode of ElDaheeh! In this episode, I will explain to you During the 2016 US presidential elections, candidate Hillary Clinton At that time, Donald Trump &quot;One second, Abo Hmeed! &quot;Was Hillary president No, my friend! -&quot;Is that cheating?&quot; &quot;Then, why was there Actually, this isn't the first time It happened before in 1876 and 1888, and also in the 2000 elections, when Al Gore lost to George W. Bush, So, the question is: How can more but the other one wins? Was he an ENFJ? Let me tell you that in America, there is no text in the US to vote directly for the candidate. These aren't classroom elections. Not &quot;the one who gets more votes, wins!&quot; The American elections depend This consists of 538 delegates These, my friend, For example, in the 2016 elections, Trump earned while Hillary earned 227, &quot;Excuse me, Abo Hmeed! because I don't want you to call So, I'm asking you to explain. In his book 'Elections: because he was lazy! that the Electoral College system for although this system is it is still a very complex system. so much so that the American citizen &quot;Oh no, Abo Hmeed! The White Citizen can't Did orientalism It's OK. You can understand it, In order to understand this system, to the moment the American My dear beautiful viewer, It's still a start-up country. We are talking here about the year 1787. At that time, the population In order for all of them to such as how to get a president, it was necessary to have a congress, and representatives who &quot;We can't ask all 4 million people every So, we bring their representatives.&quot; Here, a question arises: each state will At the Constitutional Convention in People suggested that all states should Social justice, the status quo, This proposal, although it appears fair, it upset the states states with a larger population, And they insisted to have a larger Now, do the delegates of Do they say: Of course not, they thought such decision And then, a dispute happened, to the point that it threatened Therefore, a compromise &quot;They're losing the constitution, people!&quot; The compromise is to divide House of Representatives, In the House of Representatives, depends on the population The House of Representatives in that they have so they need to have &quot;Here that, smaller states?&quot; However, the Senate decided and its system consisted of regardless of This compromise will be known Let me tell you that this part is the easy part of the matter. The difficult question now is: The states that are fighting had disagreed on everything that the president's authority so that he doesn't turn into a dictator, especially since a bitter war of So, &quot;We want to be better.&quot; And each state had independent &quot;We can't fight and earn our independence, The founding fathers of America because the states suffered from: The union between the states was fragile. The slightest fever would heat matters up, &quot;Excuse me, Abo Hmeed! I feel like you have The whole population, They should go vote in boxes, and that way, we have achieved Notice, my friend, There was no country And even if a country the 4 million Americans, were spread out on across a 1000 miles along the coast. This was at a time when there was Can you imagine how It was impossible in the 18th century for Where and how could he make propaganda? There was no internet, radio, The candidate would lose his voice. Also, there is another issue, what if these voters made the wrong choice? A candidate somehow reached out to them, People in America thought and said: &quot;Guys, didn't we make the Congress? Then the American Congress But, my friend, if you are as you will know that this in the world of modern governance. It's called the principle Simply put, we have which is the Congress that puts laws, and an executive authority, and a judiciary authority, In order for any country to function If the Congress chose the president, he will be under The legislative authority can't Other opinions suggested to: and let each state legislature &quot;This solution Frankly, my friend, this is dangerous. The chosen president would and beat the lights And like I said, the union is fragile, and any fever will bring a civil war That's why Americans said: &quot;The same way we solved we will also resort to a compromise here. A solution between direct Each state is supposed to It's a guarantee. Each state also has members depending on the state's size. &quot;So, we will choose a group Their number is determined of the Senators and And those are the ones who These delegates, will form what is known So for example, if you have a state, that mostly chose a specific candidate, and their delegate If the number of delegate votes The Electoral College makes the choice regardless of the desire According to political science when the founding fathers they didn't think they reached And honestly, in short, the founding fathers told me They are just fathers, my friend. They were exhausted from all this effort. They were tired of and wanted a compromise. They feared the breakage of their union. So, they pleased the states to the neither in the US presidential They wanted to deliver that the federal capital right under will have no influence &quot;I reassure you, states. The capital will not No, the capital will not vote. Whoever the states This situation, my friend, when it was finally allowed and it had a share in the Congress. But they have no This is still the case today. Indeed, my friend, the electoral On February 4th 1789, George Washington was the first He was the only president who was elected unanimously He offered to pay off all of America's Of course, my friend, that Adel Imam will pay off Egypt's debts, It is true that this system solved It may seem to you, my friend, That &quot;Wow, Abo Hmeed! That means that they There are no problems! We did it! It seems like the Electoral Let me tell you that this Electoral but it created new problems. Like I said, the population how many representatives in the House of Representatives, Also, the state's population determines how many delegates each state But the question here, my friend: The question that seems easy, Who is the population that determine Can everyone be considered &quot;Oh, Abo Hmeed! Looks like the editor-in-chief has arrived! Let me tell you that the considered the people or who were considered to be &quot;population&quot;, were only two classes: They were only 6% of -&quot;My goodness!&quot; Let me tell you that 40% of the population of the In a state like Virginia, If they were counted, So, they would have more representatives &quot;Oh no, Abo Hmeed! This is a problem! What do Americans *compromise* One second! On my way. As usual, solutions begin in the form of an agreement Simply, my friend, it is based but they decided for some reason to count three out Kind of like a 60% discount. Honestly, my friend, I don't agree with but in the end, I like to make fun of out of fun, In the early 19th century, since they started to grow, remember, they started at 13, The right to vote was but he must be over 21 years old. This was the case in most states. After many years, the law Thus, my friend, But white women and black men Black women, of course, And gay black women... And let's not get into trans Black people, women, were much more difficult, Let me tell you that in 1868, America recovers from the Civil War. And the states passed which grants American citizenship to anyone What does this mean, my friend? That those who were called slaves before became American citizens. And indeed, they gained &quot;Wow, Abo Hmeed! Finally justice My friend, this is just ink on paper. Not yet, my friend! Just because it says on the store that everything costs LE 2.5! You know that there is still and Django Unchained. There's Black people in the southern states because these states will creating For example, the state of Georgia like &quot;Want to vote? Give me money.&quot; -&quot;What?&quot; Voting fees are 50 dollars. -Give me money.&quot; And when a black person they tell him: &quot;Sorry. you need and it must be all at once!&quot; so, the man just loses it. Instead of voting, and his family screams too. This issue, my friend, will deprive Also notice that Deprived of education. Therefore, and even those who will be given difficult &quot;And the passing grade, Abo Hmeed?&quot; One wrong answer They must get a full mark at a time when they're voicing their vote! The problem, my friend, for candidates who will fund for example, the building So, the problem just loops, you know? That's how it went! Supposedly, you pass all these obstacles, you will find other like being a descended from a father who or a veteran. At that time, the white man had all the to exceeds all these conditions. &quot;Abo Hmeed, racism is so bad!&quot; Here's the big part, my friend! &quot;Abo Hmeed, please! No body-shaming! Winter had just ended!&quot; my friend, I didn't mean that, I meant the big problem. Women were not allowed to vote until 1890, until Wyoming, the strangest state becomes the first state to In order to encourage states, such as But resistance continued The situation remained When the Constitution which gives women &quot;Nice, Abo Hmeed! this is good news. Congratulations, women. You have Just like how the voting law chains would also be placed so that they do not benefit from this. Although the amendments for black men and women to but, let me surprise you and say that from 1920 to 1930, for 10 full years, no one could vote in the state of Georgia from the Afro-American Community other than 10 thousand out of 370 thousand. This means that less And although the voting tax there were still obstacles for voters. In addition to violence and intimidation Until civil rights advocates organized a peaceful march This march, my friend, was met by state A horrific and a frightening scene that was broadcast by So much so that US President Lyndon Johnson signed a comprehensive that forbids and prohibits any obstacles that arise to prevent them from voting. And after two centuries, my friend, we have an Electoral College system for the first time since Let me remind you that from the founding fathers' side, and from the states' side, and from the voters' side. So, the question that What about the candidate himself? Let me tell you that you must be born in America. Your father was also must be born there, or his father lived in America Also, my friend, the American &quot;What? The terms are easy, Abo Hmeed! Why are they complicating things, and we only see two presidents who Why are there only 2 in the final?&quot; The answer is that the nomination Therefore, your chances are much better if you were with one of The Democratic Party &quot;That's right, Abo Hmeed! Take care, my friend, There are other American parties, such as the Green Party. Let me tell you, my friend, that these existing parties but for your chances to you must be in one Democratic, or Republican Party. You must be in &quot;Ahly&quot; or &quot;Zamalek&quot; And that is for good reason. Each of these parties that representing millions of Americans. &quot;Abo Hmeed, please! so when I will run for office, The Republican Party, my friend, like Donald Trump, Republican Party candidates that the government and leave economics alone, and not get involved in and let the market regulate itself freely. That makes them because it imposes lower taxes on them, since the government here Also, it exempts the rich So, &quot;I will give you the wage even if I owe you more!&quot; As for the Democratic Party, which is represented by They encourages the government and raise the minimum wage. Also, they tends to impose Remember in the Depression episode Remember what he did? He was part of the democratic party. &quot;Abo Hmeed, you are dishonorable! -What Of course, the difference This is true, and that's Indeed, this was dishonorably brief. This isn't about good and evil, The differences are There are cultural For example, the two parties like the right to bear arms. Republicans love guns. Democrats say: &quot;Guys, please! No!&quot; On the other hand, Republicans say: &quot;Please, no!&quot; You also have abortion rights! This is supported Typically, Republicans tend more religious, and more right-wing. We can say that the Republicans &quot;Don't bring new immigrants. Don't take weapon If life is good, we won't change.&quot; While Democrats are more in case the damages increase. &quot;Let them fight, Abo Hmeed! Let me tell you that we have &quot;Really, Abo Hmeed? No, no, my friend. Not like that! But we are affected We are Influenced by the The difference between and the way America Republicans, for example, more than Democrats. Want evidence of this? You have the Iraq war, Democrats, on the other hand, like to play diplomacy, politics, Of course, this does not prevent but they don't say: &quot;Let's invade!&quot; And again, my friend, because Democrats All of them, my friend, a bad history! It's just percentages, tendencies, and orientations! I think so, my friend, I have given to run for the American elections! I taught you all of history! I taught you the states' history! I showed you how the electoral I showed you the two parties that control Thus, you have become a prepared *An expert in American policies* The real trick, my friend, is in funding. You need money in bags! To be a respectable candidate Your party must help you. But here non-governmental the SUPER PACS, These are advocacy These entities support specific candidates They pass laws on their behalf, for example, the Zionist Lobby, AIPAC, or oil and pharmaceutical companies, or even gaming companies. Anyone who has money and an interest whether it is a group of or countries outside America that have You have money? Go ahead! It' all with money and Just careful, my friend, before you go around These entities cannot That's a bribe! Also, direct donations You can't donate too much. But notice, my friend, we are in America. The country of freedom, and expression! According to the freedom of speech these entities have the right Now which one of the two The one which many support freely and do propaganda for? The Republican Party, and funding of this type. The Republican Party has the lion's This makes a Republican Party Normally, the Republican Party is the party Every party, my friend, has candidates. Candidates that later become the Republican So, elections are held within the party, These elections Because each party will not run for This would divide the votes, All of our strength as &quot;In order to have this candidate, Therefore, the party first needs through so-called Party elections are meetings that each party organizes and they end with And they filter the candidates. But this method, my friend, ended in 2016. It only exists in states The most common type is primary elections, which we hear about on television. The party presents and voters in each state vote directly on who they want to When it comes to America, treat it as a continent, If we are talking, my friend, about states, then each state has The states are like small And many states And the economies of many The state of California which is one state is one of the Top 10 Imagine a state against other countries! It is standing next to India, In some rankings, it's number 5 or 6 Of course, some states which is approximately 70% of Egypt's size. The size of Texas is approximately Egypt is a million square kilometers. Each state is like especially with regard For example, you have states It means state voters who vote for A voter must be registered and only him can For example, you have an open system, where all residents of the state even if they weren't party members. The advantage of an open is that it increases but its problem is I mean if I was a part and I found a weak I will go and vote for him as a Republican so that he runs in the next elections, and loses to the Democratic Notice, my friend, Its goal is for each party The primaries show that between the opinion of party like what happened in 1968. When the Democratic and at that time, voted for candidates who opposed while party leaders pushed for a pro-war even though he didn't This clash affected And the Republican candidate This incident, my friend, to choose the candidate Then, Republicans thought The primaries filter out weak candidates, like a preparation camp Only the big ones who are able After that, the party holds a national A candidate for President, And state delegates who were chosen the same ones that &quot;Seems like people want this so, I will do what people want.&quot; But, my friend, they are not obligated to. &quot;Oh, again with the tricks!&quot; The delegate can vote for any candidate, even if the voters' had different opinions. These delegates are called Superdelegates. They represent approximately They are often party leaders, or former presidents Mostly, the official party nominee All that he needs is to collect Here, my friend, party elections The states that have do not control the choice Sometimes the criterion For example, you have It has only 6 votes but it is very critical because it was &quot;Abo Hmeed, I feel like American And frankly, my brain is tired, I can't! My ambition is to be nominated as team Let me explain to you with In 2016, the Republican They gathered the candidates and test to see if each in order for the Republican Party to when the party's caucus began in Iowa, which, as we said, The Republican Party And after the primary elections in Iowa, 3 out of the 12 withdrew They were fatigued and said: &quot;What is this? The next election was a week New Hampshire didn't have But it is the second state After the New Hampshire primaries, 3 candidates would also withdraw. Almost half of the candidates after the first two states they went to, and again, these are small states. Maybe if these candidates they would have had And just as candidates sometimes, candidates Imagine if the first state you So, people in the state know you! So, You won the primaries in Iowa! People in the party say: &quot;OK, it seems And they begin to focus more on you. And your chances increase over time. There are dark horse candidates. No one thought that Like what happened in December 2007, when a senator from Illinois, an unknown man ran for presidency against the party's number one runner, Her husband is a former president, so Hillary was ahead of Obama But a month later, my friend, Obama defeats her Again, my friend, They are running for candidacy. Obama and Hillary are still in Obama's victory in This appeared in opinion polls. Thus, his chances of raising And he transformed from a weak Without any spoilers, my friend, in case you had not lived Obama became the president of America, Bottom line is the states in one way or another regardless of their size because they are simply Therefore, the ones who win there &quot;It's nice, Abo Hmeed. They have a small So, might as well have The problem, my beautiful -is that these states are 90% white people. With our respect for all skin colours, and all the Political Correctness there is still discrimination, between the white man So, the question is: Do these two states to the point that they make Of course, this is good criticism. But, also think about it, The first primaries, he won were in Iowa. The truth is that Americans and tried not to view In 2008, they tried to solve the issue by choosing two states like Nevada and South Carolina, and let them be them vote early. They also made many southern states vote on the same day, SuperPACS, Super Tuesday. If you want to participate the Super Tuesday is usually The idea is that when are distributed across this gives their So, it is a real test of the candidates' Very well, my friend. Now, my friend, who got there after and after a long journey the candidate went from a party *American Presidential candidate* *American Presidential candidate* On the first Tuesday Voters go to their polling stations to vote for the best but they do so indirectly. They vote under the delegates who are 538 delegates, like we said, depending on They also change according according to a census every 10 years. California, for example, has 55 delegates, while a state like If we assume that in the upcoming and won the majority of I mean, the general public, voted for him then, the 55 delegates of California are all obligated because the people chose him. Even, if he won by a simple majority. Meaning, if he eared and we have 55 delegates. It doesn't go like 60% and the other 40% No! He technically won So all 55 delegates This is a rule in American elections. The winner in the state takes it all. A Winner-Take-All! Whoever wins in a state This system is in effect In general, delegates are obligated to vote according to the voters in each state. But this is just a common custom, Nothing in the Constitution forces them to. So sometimes, in rare cases, the delegate might vote for a candidate and was given This is a phenomenon in the American For example, in the 2016 elections, 3 delegates from Washington State, which is not Washington D.C, the delegates of the Washington state were supposed to vote for because the people of the state voted that. But what happened was that &quot;How, Abo Hmeed?! Wait, One second! Didn't you say it was between Then, who is this?&quot; This is a very valid The truth, my friend, is that And the ordinary voters They said: &quot;We want Mrs. Hillary.&quot; The vote happened, as I understand, in hopes that they would to vote for another Republican who was obviously going to win. So, they did not only cast their they chose a third candidate In the 2000 elections, The representative of Washington, because his state does not And more than 30 states, my friend, obliged their delegates and said: Whatever the people say, vote for it. You are just a megaphone You are just a USB cable! You're just an thing that emerged from The question is that if I were If the people are the ones Why this mess?! Each state has a number of delegates, and the delegates of 30 states say that and the other 20 say it's not necessary, and delegates can, not only but can choose a candidate Why all these lumps? Let me tell you, my friend, obligated the delegates to it didn't work very well. Because it was only a matter of and sometimes, they might remove him! Only a few states had an actual law that can invalidate or replace him with another delegate The truth, my friend, is that The problem is that a small because the votes of most Many states known for their and that they will probably vote no matter who the candidate is! &quot;As long as he is democratic, And &quot;Just eat it&quot; That's why some candidates rarely although it may actually and have the highest number This made the states who are states that have fewer votes, And their loyalty is Sometimes they're blue and sometimes red for the Republican Party. They're known as You've surely heard They even used to say: &quot;Michigan!&quot; Remember? They said so, &quot;Arabs, don't vote for Biden. Because this is an important These swing states although their votes in For example, according to a report by Axios, there are 6 swing states. These states are expected Arizona has 11 votes, Georgia has 16 votes, Michigan has 16 votes also, Nevada has 6 votes, Pennsylvania has 20 votes, and Wisconsin has 10 votes. All of them combined, out of 538 votes in the Electoral College. But these swing states are the That's why the candidates will &quot;Good, Abo Hmeed. My dear beautiful viewer, This means that only 6% of voters will determine the outcome of They will receive billions of dollars -&quot;Abo Hmeed, I am worried!&quot; &quot;Because this is the same percentage We have gone through all this to return This was about the same percentage that determined who would I guess the path to civilization is a The truth, my friend, opinion polls show that most Americans prefer direct popular &quot;We want people to vote themselves, and for their votes to go Who voted for the delegate after all? The people saw that Although the Electoral and has been in effect for 237 years, which means it has origins, let me surprise you and tell you that during this time, more than 700 to cancel or modify it, The decision to cancel requires the approval of two-thirds of the in addition to the approval of 38 states. Many small states will refuse, my friend. They think that candidates the ones with larger populations, because that way they are the Then, smaller states will have Here, my friend, suggested to circumvent The solution is for that all delegate votes go across the United States, Simply put, the delegates They are bound to implement the votes Meaning, if the majority made a choice, all delegates choose What does this proposal suggest? They says that all the delegates, more than 500 delegates, will all vote for the president chosen by the entire even if he didn't win in certain states, these states will give Because, again, the delegates will So, officially, delegates It's not just a horn or a USB, The coaster that we put tea on. If it is not there, its insignificant. Let me tell you that 10 states Among them are California and New York, who have a big impact These states control approximately That seems like a nice but there is one obstacle That the states that approved this proposal Neither of them is a Republican state, Most likely, my friend, Anyone who isn't happy should Do a little illegal immigration, Although, Americans have the right and their attempts to search and a compromise not all, but most of them are However, the American election makes millions of Americans And It has nothing because they do not live in a state that A system where the participation rate is the least, if we compare A system that people And other opinions think its to be the especially, because of its nature. According to the words of the two-party system It also excludes Kind of like a derby. Also, it forces voters to even if the candidate is not convincing. It forces a nation of 340 million citizens to only selects 2 candidates, who are often are not the best. Trump and Biden Trump and Biden are not Here, my friend, the voter is forced even if he wasn't very convinced. Biden, my friend, had reached that he is losing memory and is He can't speak, Also, his generation is separate from Of course, Trump is a whole other case. He turned American He fueled conflicts During his presidency, his supporters in a process similar to Honestly, I don't know But I don't think that Biden There are better people. The American election system, is very attractive from the outside, but its flaws make it far from perfect. Again, my friend, just because it has problems But it's one of the better bad ones. If we realize that we can always improve This is what happened throughout This system solved It helped a weak country to be a great country with 200 years, my friend, 200 years for We have 120 years called the Just a simple 120 years In general, my friend, we hope that and we wish the people of the world Because, like we said, affects the foreign policy which affects us in particular That's it, my friend. Don't forget to watch Check the sources below, *Delegate* &quot;Sir, they can We will Mohamed Hany the president. He is the fittest.&quot;