Alright, quick poll -- raise your hand if you have that's meaningful to you. OK, I assumed, but always good (Laughter) I'm saying this because while I'll be focusing today please know that everything is applicable to any So with that in mind, let's jump in. So it's Sunday night, I'm in my kitchen. I just finished cooking and I am on edge. I mean, I'm exhausted, I'm anxious about the upcoming workweek, I'm overwhelmed by all the items And then, my son walks into the kitchen. He looks at the table and whines, &quot;Chicken again?&quot; (Laughter) &quot;Disgusting.&quot; (Laughter) And that's it. I snap. I look at him and I yell, &quot;What is wrong with you? Can you be grateful And things get worse from there. He screams, &quot;I hate you.&quot; He runs out of the room And now, my self-loathing session begins, as I say to myself, I've messed up my kid forever.&quot; Well, if you're a parent, For me, it comes I mean, I'm a clinical psychologist and my specialty is helping people (Laughter) And yet, this is true as well -- there is no such thing Mistakes and struggles, but no one tells us what to do next. Do we just move on? Kind of just pretend Or if I say something, Well, for years, as a clinical I saw client after client And now, as the creator of the parenting &quot;Good Inside,&quot; I see millions of parents All parents yell. No one knows what to do next. Well, I'm determined to fill this gap. After all, there's almost nothing that can have as much impact as repair. Whenever a parent asks me, &quot;What one parenting strategy I always say the same thing: &quot;Get good at repair.&quot; So what is repair? Repair is the act of going back Taking responsibility for your behavior and acknowledging the impact And I want to differentiate because when an apology often looks "Hey, I'm sorry I yelled. a good repair opens one up. And if you think about what it means there's so much baked-in realism Repair assumes there's been a rupture. So to repair, you have to mess up or fall short of someone Which means the next time or my husband, or my work colleague, instead of berating myself, like I did that night in the kitchen, I try to remind myself I'm focusing Step one is rupture. &quot;Check that off, I crushed it.&quot; (Laughter) Step two is repair. &quot;I can do this. I'm actually right on track.&quot; So let's get back to my example. I'm in the kitchen, my son is in his room. Well, what will happen if I don't repair? That's really important to understand and helps us make a decision Well, here are the facts. My son is alone, overwhelmed and in a state of distress, because, let's face it, And now, he has to figure out to feeling safe and secure. And if I don't go help him do that he has to rely on one of the only he has at his own disposal ... self-blame. Self-blame sounds like this: "Something's wrong with me. I'm unlovable. I make bad things happen." Ronald Fairbairn may have said it best it is better to be a sinner than to live in a world In other words, it's actually adaptive for a child to internalize because at least then, that their parents is safe and good. And while self-blame we all know it works "Something's wrong with me. I make bad things happen. I'm unlovable." These are the core fears But really, we see here, we wrote when we were left alone following distressing events Plus, adults with self-blame deep feelings of worthlessness -- none of which we want for our kids. And we can do better. And it doesn't mean we have to be perfect. When you repair, you go further than removing You get to add in all the elements Safety, connection, coherence, It's as if you're saying to a child, &quot;I will not let this chapter Yes, this chapter will still contain but I can ensure this chapter and therefore a different title, We know that memory is original events combined with every other time This is why therapy's helpful, right? When you remember painful within a safer and more the event remains, but your story of the event, With repair, we effectively change the past. So let's write a better story. Let's learn how to repair. Step one, repair with yourself. That's right. I mean, you can't offer compassion or groundedness or understanding before you access Self-repair means who you are, from your behavior, what you did. For me, it means telling myself I'm not proud of my latest behavior and my latest behavior doesn't define me. Even as I struggle on the outside, I can then start to see identity -- who was having a hard time -- behavior. And no, this doesn't let me off the hook. This is precisely what leaves me Because now that I've replaced I can actually use my energy toward thinking about what I want Oh, and I can now use my energy Step two -- repair with your child. There's no exact formula. I often think about three elements: name what happened, take responsibility, state what you would do It could come together like this. &quot;Hey. I keep thinking about what happened I'm sorry I yelled. I'm sure that felt scary. And it wasn't your fault. I'm working on staying calm, A 15-second intervention I've replaced my child's with a story of self-trust I mean, what a massive upgrade. And to give a little more clarity I want to share a few examples which are things that come definitely me included. &quot;Hey, I'm sorry I yelled at you but if you wouldn't have it wouldn't have happened.&quot; (Laughter) Been there? Been there? OK. Or &quot;You know, you really need to be like a home-cooked meal. Then, you won't get yelled at.&quot; (Laughter) Not only do these interventions they also insinuate that your child which simply isn't true and isn't a model of emotion regulation (Applause) So let's say we've all resisted the &quot;it was your fault, and have instead prioritized What might the impact be? My adult child won't spiral in self-blame and won't take on blame My adult child will know how to take because you've modeled Repairing with a child today sets the stage for these critical Plus, it gets better -- now that I've reconnected with my son, I can teach him a skill which is how kids So maybe the next day, I say &quot;You know, you're not always Instead of saying 'that's disgusting,' I wonder if you could say Now I'm teaching him how to regulate and communicate effectively That never would have happened if instead, I had been blaming him for my reaction. So here's the point where you might have Maybe you're thinking, &quot;You know, I have a feeling (Laughter) &quot;I think it's too late.&quot; Or &quot;I have done a lot worse (Laughter) &quot;Maybe it's too late.&quot; Well, I mean this -- if you have only one takeaway please let this be it: It is never too late. How do I know? Well, imagine, right after this, and if neither of your parents are alive, imagine finding and opening a letter OK, walk through this &quot;Hey, I know this sounds out of the blue, but I've been thinking a lot And I think there were a lot of moments And you are right to feel that way. Those moments weren't your fault. They were times when I was struggling, and if I could have gone back, I would have calmed myself down, and then found you to help you I'm sorry. And if you're ever willing to talk to me I'll listen. I won't listen to have a rebuttal. I love you.&quot; I don't know many adults to that exercise. I often hear, "Why am I crying?" Or &quot;Listen, that wouldn't But it might change some things.&quot; Well, I definitely but here's something If you have a child, (Laughter) Always true. The story of their life is shorter and even more amenable to editing. So if that imagined exercise imagine the impact an actual repair See? I told you, it's never too late. Thank you. (Cheers and applause)