Good evening ladies and gentlemen and welcome My name is Adrian Sutton, I'm standing in Committee who is indisposed. It is a great privilege to be here to welcome Before I get on to that, I want to point out First of all, please turn off your mobile But we don't want to hear any ringtones of There are no planned fire evacuations; if The fire escapes are those doors and also there. The event is being webcast and will be recorded We will also be using a speech-to-text service So tonight's talk is entitled Why is Life It is given by Dr Nick Lane, winner of the It is awarded annually for excellence in science It recognises a scientist or engineer whose in lay terms is exemplary. Dr Lane can count himself amongst a list of Frank Close, David Attenborough, Frances Backwell, Cox, Andrea Sella and Katherine Willis. Dr Lane is a reader in Evolutionary Biochemistry Environment at University College London. His research is about how energy shapes evolution, mechanisms of biological energy generation This perspective has tremendous breadth, cutting its very origin, nearly four billion years life on earth to the structure of our own deaths. Nick leads the UCL Research Frontiers Origins consortium for mitochondria research. His work has been honoured by several awards on the evolution of life, which have been His four books treat the grand sweep of evolution and death. His books have been critically acclaimed, Nature, New Scientist, The Economist, The The Telegraph and the Wall Street Journal. His book, Life Ascending won the Royal Society He was described by The Independent as one time. And his most recent book - and I happen to - The Vital Question: Why is Life the Way Gates who described it on his blog as an amazing Ladies and gentlemen, I'm pleased to present, [Applause] introduction, and thank you all for coming, have an overflow room that is also full. Thank you very much for coming. It is a huge honour. I hardly need to say, the list of winners of the people who inspired me as a child and overwhelming. Anyway, I will talk this evening about why Now I don't know what you make of that question, in English. I tried my subtitles out on people and I said it is, and she said it's awful, I need a holiday! You can never quite predict how people will The best title or subtitle of my books was of Life. I had to find some way of trying to sex up a book about mitochondria. And it is strange because I have noticed it as other books are. I think people are a little bit ashamed of it looks as if they are not spending their It is curious that people can only remember The best review said they gave up smoking this book with trepidation. Anyway ... This question for tonight, Why Even in a scientific context it might be strange These are just animals, I'm told the blob It seems just about my morphological shape on the earth. How can that question make any kind of sense? If we look at a genetic tree which shows the here, you might be able to read that - it been explored thoroughly by the animals that We can go broader than that; this is the entire animals are over there, protists, single-celled This is not a tree of life. It makes me think of Magritte who said this I read this quote that he says, well, can representation of a pipe. What we need to understand about the tree But it goes beyond the problem with the representation. The representation, it looks as if all of was almost nothing left to explore and that But it is also a tree of a single gene. And if you were to construct a similar tree tree. The branches would be in different places try to do a tree of life and you construct picture. I will come on to some of that. The other issue with this tree is that the it looks as if there aren't really any and at the bottom of the tree. It is a very misleading impression and again in are the animals up here and that is what it leaves something to be decided. This is going back now 20 years; this is an lot more perspective. It raises some really interesting questions. This is known as the three domains tree of It was discovered by Carl Woese, who looks Cause, and he pointed this out in 1978, he bacteria called the archaea. Nobody really had much of an inkling they this was 1990, showing tremendous variation The lengths of these branches give an indication each group. So the bacteria are over here, the archaea constrained to this small corner of the tree, to a corner and it feels uncomfortable. As soon as you look at this tree, it begs I would like to try to bring out tonight from really a collection of dusty facts at all, of testing those questions and trying to understand And the kind of questions that we ask about questions, but it is easy to miss them. So why is it that these two groups have got simple? In terms of their morphology they haven't Woese woes built from bacterial cells, it What was happening down this branch of the You can tell just from looking at that that do with genes because there is plenty of genetic complexity. These are simple childlike questions but hit They don't hit new the face at all from this. So again it comes down to the representation. So there have been, what would happen, I suppose you were to wind back the clock, if you were life and let the clock play forward again, something quite different? And there is no agreement, this is another across. There can be tremendous intellectual arguments This is a very good example. On the left-hand side as you are looking at bleak book that we were alone in an empty philosophical life. Steven Jay Gould rolled back the time and we get human beings, vertebrates, what kind His view and it was a view is you would get The evolution that has taken place is contingent You have a meteorite that wipes out the dinosaurs hold and that is all it is. We have Christian de Duve and Simon Conway-Morris book and they both think far more in terms The structural importance that if you want otherwise you will never get airborne. And so there are engineering principles that They see those avenues as being the most important. So these are different perceptions, but it simply counter factualism but the question ended up this way rather than this way. Can you imagine what life might look like we have to allow us get at those questions? These books written by these four are a wonderful hypothesis, but the key things from a scientific in one way or another, it depends on your Here is how I see it. This is an indication of what's happened to have been flatlining! They ended up with, you know, about the same We can see bacteria and archaea in the fossil look a lot like that. They look like modern groups we see today. So what have they been doing? In their biochemistry, in their molecular of their morphological complexity they are What was going on, and why is it then that see, has a common ancestry. It appeared once after about two billion years of different life forms are closely related there. It is another way of looking at the tree of It is a very different one. Something abrupt happened, something odd happened I say we don't know, that doesn't mean to ideas, the question is how do you know which What forces constrain the evolution of bacteria, why not bacterial humans? How was it that the complex cells escaped, them. Will these forces be similar on other planets? Could we guess what aliens look like, what would apply to them. If we are going to ask this question, it is How do we think about it? This is Erwin Schrodinger who wrote a famous There were two famous ideas that emerged from are a code script. And that was the first time anybody had used terms of information in biology. And he was absolutely correct. He talked - this was before DNA had been discovered Crick and many others. The second theme of the book was how life Why don't we just fall to pieces as entropy He talked about negative entropy. He talked about physicists alone I would have let the discussion I would say to put all of that into more modern of chemical energy in such a way that the That is certainly how I would see he's linking and energy, together. How do we generate energy, for want of a better Well, these are our mitochondria, the powerhouses So these are membranes inside and this is of oxygen and food reacting together to produce There are in all of our cells we have in the to thousands of mitochondria. If you were to unravel all these membranes four football pitches worth of membrane as on. What is happening, and I'm not going to get what we are doing is we are stripping electrons These are giant molecular complexions, so them down this what is called a respiratory It is a current of electrons. As simple as that, that current of electrons We have a reservoir of protons on this side. Here we have the ATP synthase; this is driving ATP is the energy currency that drives absolutely These blobs that I'm showing you. The level of understanding required to understand So Sir John Walker won the Nobel Prize in The turbine in the membrane. This is Sir John's own web page, this was 2000, he knew a little more. No structural information on the main part this information has gradually been pieced This is another key aspect of science, the these. It means determination and drive on the part over those kinds of periods of time to go works to an extraordinarily detailed understanding We need to know that, but we also need to and the easiest conceptualisation for me is to what I have been showing you the water The turbine in the dam itself is equivalent This is how respiration works at the level This idea was shocking, it goes back to 1961 This is in 1947 with Jennifer Moyle in Cambridge He put this idea forward in 1961 that respiration and he called it coupling. It was very mathematical and physical and of people got angry because they didn't understand He had a knack of winding people up! And so it took a long time for these ideas There was what was known as the ox/phos wars. It was a period of particular acrimony where and so on. It turned out another finding of science that way or another. But Mitchell himself was the person who conceptualised He thought the ATP synthase would not work phosphate on to ATP, he swore that was not it worked. The overall idea, I think Leslie Orgel captured come up with an idea that is counterintuitive I think people until then talked about chemistry the idea that there was a structural intermediary was shocking. Now Mitchell himself obviously saw the big This is from a conference in 1957 in Moscow at the time. JD Burnell was there, all the communists were Mitchell gave a talk at the same meeting. He said he cannot consider the organism without the two may be regarded as equivalent phases by the membranes that separate and link them. He's really dissolving the environment, the It is a novel way of seeing things. I think this is important and has been largely Mitchell himself, that is 1946, here is from I'm very struck that his hairstyle hasn't He looks exactly the same, just a bit older! So there is a big question about that though, energy conservation. Why would you have a membrane? Why have this intermediary? Why should it work that way and how could inherently complex. The fact is it is used by all cells. It is as universally conserved across all It is a shocking statement really that, but So you would think that it goes right back So how on earth could it have evolved in the We can get some clues from the cells that and archaea, and acetogens, bacteria. They live between carbon dioxide and the hydrogen They get all they need from that reaction They need nitrogens and all that, but with this reaction. It is called a free lunch that you are paid But one thing I want to bring your attention CO2 to react, if we could do that we could CO2 out of the atmosphere. And we could solve the energy security because So there must be lots of people in secret goes on and they won't publish it, so I don't I have to bring my own ideas to the problem. And I'm a biologist and I see what these cells Over the last 20 years or so we now have a One thing that they need is a proton gradient that. If you look at roughly what's going on - don't map, if you like, if it goes uphill you have want to happen spontaneously. If it is going downhill it will happen spontaneously. You start with CO2 and react it with hydrogen, this is formaldehyde, it is uphill, you have That is why it is not easy to do or economically and hydrogen. What do the methanogens do? They reduce the barrier to make?? it happen, and then it happens very quickly, barrier with the proton gradient. That points to me to a particular environment These are alkaline hydrothermal vents, they recently by Deborah Kelley who was the captain They were discovered by a PhD student who These are about 15-20kms off the axis of the So there is nothing interesting there. Everybody knows that, so they were just getting doing and the PhD student was the only one hey, wow, what's that! It turned out to be an entirely novel hydrothermal Nobody had seen anything quite like this before. People predicted it might exist and nobody It is not a black smoker, you don't see the It was called Lost City in part, it was on It looks almost abandoned and there is a strange This really is again another theme of science. This is a serendipitous discovery, it is really importance of just exploration in science. Finding out things about the world; looking So these vents I mentioned had been predicted, Russell, about ten years earlier. His ideas at the time were really considered in some respects they still are. But the discovery of this vent system which that he said they should have really made This was an article by Nature, the leading They dressed him up as Erasmus and called and dressed him up as Erasmus. I have noticed how sartorial standards have I'm trying to stop the rot and I don't wear What Mike Russell argued is that these vents, chimney, you just have this kind of porous and the hydrothermal fluids percolate through You have high amounts of hydrogen and carbon four million years ago were acid and this but far less than the fluids. He said this is very equivalent to cells as This is what they look like if you go down a few micrometres across, much less than a We have a relatively thick barrier separating inside the vent. The ocean and hydrothermal fluids come in. On one side it is acidic and the other side This is roughly what cells look like, so cells On the outside they are relatively acidic The difference across the barrier is three in both cases it is acid on the outside. It is very analogous, it is inspiringly so, should be any more an analogous. The question is could it be, is there an experiment There are simple experiments we have started hydrothermal structures, containing the minerals and the difference in ph. across the barrier to drive the formation It is very early days but I will show you This is formaldehyde, and it has different It does look as if that structure might promote What I want to draw your attention to about reaction between rocks, the kind of rocks and water, it will percolate down into the This is the ocean above and they react with converted from olivine into pentonite. We have warm fluids bubbling back up, and they can precipitate these amazing vent systems, The only requirements are rock and water. So you would expect to see these kinds of There is even some evidence from our own Solar you see these geisers periodically, and from the Ph, and that seems to be 11, there are of 11. On Mars there are perhaps traces of methane, difficult to believe, or coming from this down in the rocks with the rocks themselves. And of course Europa is another place to look are some signs that some reaction is going The real key point from all of this first will form this type of vent, bubbling with tens of billions of exo-planets across the They should have natural proton gradient, drive this difficult reaction between hydrogen broad shape, why is it the simplest cells spread to everything else? This is a way of seeing it that makes some but at least we can try to test it. If it is true then life elsewhere should face We can get at this question, why was it that billion years? Why did life get stuck in a rut and would it be the same requirement for proton gradient? It is what I like to think that John Maynard John Maynard Smith was a great evolutionary biology of the 21st century and at UCL as He worked largely on the evolution of sex but I think he saw this problem in similar The problem is that all complex life is composed which arose only once in the entire four billion Maybe they arose at other times but we have Nobody has ever found one. So to the best that we know they arose once. And all eukaryotic share kinds of traits, And bacteria don't seem to evolve any of those way. The scandal is if all the traits form step each small step offers an advantage in the them arising in bacteria for similar reasons? It is not obvious. I'm not criticising natural selection at all. The question is what are the constraints that energy one of them? Just to give you a sense of the problem here: by creationists as being what use is half selection is laughing at them because these This, for example, this is an eyeless shrimp. It doesn't have eyes at all but these photosensitive This is a pond scrum, it is a single-cell This is another remarkable single-cell protist single cell, it is made of chloroplast, usually together this now. And the powerhouses are used as part of the There are all different types of eye. This is scallops, astonishing things. In animals they can trace a common ancestor of an early worm. And there are some regulatory genes in common, all the re- of the genes to evolve a complex So the eye of an octopus here is very similar it is completely originally evolved. It doesn't share a common ancestor. This is convergent evolution. So what was going on then? Down here. Why was it that all of these bacteria in archaea why couldn't they come up with something like cytosis and all the complex things that cells What was happening down here that wasn't happening I like to think of this as the black hole It is not just at the level of multi-cellular This is planctomycete, a relatively complex able to make out. It is compartmentalised, called a little bit a relatively complex structure. It is roughly to scale which is why you can't mentioned a moment ago. You don't need to know what any of this is scale to the bacteria with a lot going on, we don't need to know that to appreciate there of single cells. What was going on? The other thing I want to call your attention level of complexity is strikingly similar This is paramecium and this is a par Cretic my students in the first year when they start have, they range from ten to a few thousand, as many as we have. So the level of complexity in terms of protein-coding striking. I'm making fun of the students but I should When the human genome project was just coming a sweepstake to try to guess the number of The average number that people guessed was And of course now we know the answer was 20,000. And I have to say on behalf of evolutionary in the late 1960s-70s on the basis of mutation could not have more than 30,000 genes. Unfortunately, the scientists who were working that literature. That is another point about science, it is wide literature and have an idea if you are in another field. It is very, very difficult to do that. Another thing we all have in common, all eukaryotic fuse together and the nucleus fuses together There are quite a few eukaryotic cells that This is amoeba, for example, and until 2011, looking for amoeba in the woods! But we knew they had some genes that were in flagrante, and Dan finally caught them. This is amoeba having sex! I must say I was a bit disappointed! I don't know quite what I imagined I thought but it isn't how it looks! The key point I have to get to the argument mitochondria. So this link with energy can explain why it So all of these cells do not have mitochondria, And it is another illustration of science, ago saying perhaps these were primitive and Testing that hypothesis shows it was wrong. The importance of being wrong in science is more about these cells. It turned out that they did have mitochondria Lynn Margulis showed really in 1957, 50 years bacteria. This is Lynn Margulis. She married Carl Sagan, it is an anti-celebrity but Lynn Margulis was a celebrated evolutionary some of her ideas, the ideas to do with mitochondria were true, other of her ideas turned out not Another theme from science is she persisted after 20 or 30 years everybody accepted them on the part of an individual who is being There were papers published dismissing what about a lot of important factors. She was asked during the end of her life, all the time?"She responded to say, "I'm So this was the derivation of the host cell. Less than a month ago we now know the host Related to the lokiarchaeota. Near Loki's castle. A year ago there was a paper showing the host which were dredged up from down there. We have never seen the cells, we have a genome reconstruction. More systematically across the world, a couple one another paper saying this is a super thing The lokiarchaeota are here, we have the thorarchaeota This is how the tree of life now looks. This comes from a friend of mine, Bill Martin, generation and not always appreciated because This was his conception in 1998 that we have vent, the system I have been talking about, from that vent of the bacteria and the archaea, single event, an endosymbiosis. It started something like this is the only a bacterial cell. The key point about it is, the reason it matters there and when you have population of cells you can imagine this is a population of bacteria mutation, it is wiped out a gene that it doesn't It has a slightly smaller genome and it grows Over time it comes to dominate. By here, pretty much all the cells in that don't need it right now. But then the conditions change and they do in the environment by a process called lateral back where you were. What happens here if you have the same population and they never need it again. So they just waste away, getting smaller and on. We know plenty of examples of this type of Typhus is an example of it. This is Napoleon's retreat from Moscow where It is caused by a bacterium, an intracellular cell here the key thing about Rickettsia is most bacterial genomes, it is one in size. This is the free living bacteria coming across ones, the parasites and the symbionts, one Gregory, you see a striking difference if away everything you don't need and you become life. And that's what happened to the mitochondria, they ended up with a genome of their own. Very, very tiny genome, 99% of their genes It is a really interesting question, why did And the answer, it comes from John Allen here idea that John put forward first in 1995 and it should be! I don't have time to go into details but effectively own genes which they use for controlling respiration So the membrane potential on these, the actual volts, if you were to shrink yourself down to being a field strength of 30 million volts The charge on the membranes enormous, they Just for the last couple of minutes. What is actually going on? This is the situation. If we see giant bacteria, they have thousands genome. So it is a thing called explosive polyploid. They need it to control respiratory, in the This is a eukaryotic, in red, the mitochondria they have the tiny genomes supporting the We have a symmetry where all the genomes are expand up and copy and copy and copy and there same. But here over time these genomes will become that massive nuclear genome. Why did complex life only arise once? It required at the very beginning a singular example. There are no known surviving intermediates syncing up their lifestyles. There was that quote about hell being other This is the equivalent to the common ancestor, and it is difficult to get at how it happened. Another important take-home message is when wrong in diseases and things, it is important to each other, how do they work, how do they If we can't understand that, it is difficult At the moment we don't really have a good first place. As I said earlier we have ideas but we don't So I have said that life arose only once, And that may depress some of you. And so I want to give you a hope and cut you This was discovered in 2011 and it is not lovely thing about science. We don't know what it is. The lokiarchaeota, we have a genome but we try to piece it together from the genes. In this case we know what the cell looks like, we don't really know what it is. Now this is not a normal cell. It has got what looks like a nucleus here, a bit like hydrogenosomes but they could be It has membrane and cell wall. It looks like a fungus of some sort, but when nuclear membrane, it is a single membrane, membrane, that is odd. All of this dappling here, these are ribosomes is fusing the membrane there are a lot of It might be all part of the preparation, we It might be that it is somehow recapitulating, it has become larger, these are normal-sized a nucleus, it is recapitulating eukaryotic trawling it trench off the coast of Japan that and they have never found another one. So it is very rare and perhaps complex life extinct before it got very far. I want to finish with this. I'm sure some of you will recognise this as the earth and this was vow Voyager 1 in 1990 and Karl Sagan managed to persuade them to Bands are light-scattering artefacts and not And Karl with his characteristic eloquence everybody we have ever loved, and everybody all the civilisations and the empires and that's happened on this planet from the very The thing that strikes me about it as well How could we know anything really about that? And science itself, well the word is inscrutable, all of this and yet we do. We know about the rules and atoms and quarks other side about black holes and we know about that make them up and how they work, this of years, finding ways of asking probing questions, in the sense that there are always competing it is the testing of those questions just different versions, some of which work better In science there is a ratchet like way of to get at some answers. A lot of science is now in dusty textbooks Where science is really at in the process things about the world. That process is inevitably about competing of seeing the world, that is how it needs I think in the modern world where experts We have to find a way as society of somehow what science is as a way of thinking about at inscrutable information. This is one of the reasons why I think books is valuable. It is vital, I think, if we want to keep the based on this scientific understanding of of getting everybody to appreciate the process arranging with each other they will appreciate they are arranging about how to move forward, we know from the past. I think that is a key message to end with. Thank you all very much. [Applause]. NICK: I have overrun slightly I hope we have ADRIAN: Nick has agreed to take ten minutes Could I ask you please to use the microphones And if you can please stand up. So who wants to ask a question? We have one down here on the left? FLOOR: Thank you very much. I just wondered about the chloroplast. I always understood that chloroplasts were Can you clarify that? NICK: Yes they are, it was not a singular The acquisition of mitochondria gave rise and then in one group later on they acquired it didn't affect the entire direction, it load photosynthesis to take off in a different in a conceptual sense it doesn't alter the beginning. FLOOR: I wanted to ask if you were aware of under a variety of conditions to see if you Has anyone attempted that or is it regarded NICK: I would love to try do it. It is not an easy experiment to get funding You could do that but it would fail because inside another cell and the ideas are that on and you would need to set that up in the I have met several people who have told me thing is I have never seen any of them since! FLOOR: Is it fair to conclude that because that if there is more life in the universe to worry about ET! FLOOR: I was wondering if some cells have anymore? Is it possible for cells to evolve in a way NICK: I would say no, it is not possible. And that's a hypothesis that may turn out shows a complex cell tomorrow that never had We know of a lot of cells that don't have be complex and not have mitochondria. The question is really is it possible to become mitochondria. And the energy difference of having mitochondria I didn't really mention this, it is about in the gene that eukaryotic cells have above It allows you to just ramp up on a massive have more genes and bad genes. It doesn't affect you very much because you and you can deal with it. Once you have got all of that, and most of are phagocyte, once you are that can you go you may not get much energy out of eating will be all right. Whereas if you tried to do that as a bacterium, The whole process is so costly, that is the The bacterial cells that just ferment, they They can't extract hardly anything, they can't of the environment. They have the smallest genomes of any known ADRIAN: One last question here in the middle. FLOOR: Life has been around for four billion two billion years. Fusion event took place not long after the had oxygen in the atmosphere that sort of NICK: That is what Lynn Margulis' original FLOOR: It could be a little more likely from NICK: That sounds reasonable on the face of The problem with it is we don't see multiple, you have oxygen you would expect to see for plants, and they are preadaptive to that lifestyle, they need one if it is easier to do with oxygen. Why not fungi, why are they not derived from Why don't animals arise from phagocytic bacteria What that theory pro-directs multiple origins origins, not tens or hundreds but two, three but that is not what we do see. It is not at all clear when the eukaryotic after the oxidation event. Also, over the last ten years, we see oxidation Most of that gets consumed by oxidising the red beds and so on. But in the oceans there is very little oxygen time of the Cumbrian explosion and we see to oxygen. ADRIAN: I think we better stop the questions We now come to the formal presentation. So Nick it is my pleasure to present to you And also the medal. And finally the cheque! [Applause] Wonderful congratulations. [Applause] of?) function is due to take place in this In order for our staff to prepare the hall, your way to the exit as quickly as possible. Unfortunately Dr Lane will not be able to Guests attending the private function should which will be on your left as you exit there. Thank you very much for coming. I hope you have enjoyed the evening. Thank you.