I am going to cut to the chase. Fully impossible with the evidence that has survived. and so there are no surviving sources beliefs. Even once the Slavs started to write, they did not create any amalgamations of older understanding of pre-Christian Slavic mythology poems like Beowulf , no Poetic and Prose Eddas there are no grand descriptions of Slavic gods and The study of Slavic paganism thus has to written evidence about Slavic pagan beliefs Muslim writings about the Slavs or in later Slavs for still practicing paganism. All of these but they nevertheless do give us valuable, even if gods and rituals while they were still practiced. antiquarians have largely compiled in the written down at 'a time when ethnic identity was this meant communicating with their ancient Slavic to call upon to strengthen this connection simply to be invented' and so many were. In fact, still being published that purport to present new in reality, they are just modern made-up Some of these 'pseudo-ancient stories of ancestors ones based on oral tradition and written down by Slavic paganism in them, which can be corroborated part, these modern stories and traditions exist simply just time have distorted them so greatly as reliable sources for reconstructing any part my video will primarily focus on the limited use modern folkloric traditions and stories only give additional context. Totally not racist Museum of the Origins of the Polish State exhibition on the 'Religion(s) of the Slavs. Poland'. Go check-out their website and YouTube the pinned comment. And, if you're in the maybe go visit in person. This collaboration possible thanks to the US Fulbright Program. I have finally made some merch for the M. merch includes some very comfortable hoodies, the M. Laser History crest. The embroidery looks a simple printed logo. The design was inspired I wanted my merch to have a sort of academic like one has for their college. I also wanted the my merch anywhere, so I decided to go with just large tacky words. Anyways, please go check out and the pinned comment. The store is also synced see a preview of it below this video. So please pretty good as far as YouTuber merch goes. about Slavic paganism is that, just like most There is a reason why the Gniezno based museum's called 'Religion(s) of the Slavs', indicating dispersion of Slavs and an even greater temporal When it comes to the earliest 6th-century it is hard to tell how similar or different Slavs were from the Slavs along the Baltic Sea sources that mention aspects of Slavic and it would be quite inappropriate to think that 6th century were the same as the pagan practices Chronicle or the 14th century Czech Chronicle and overall cultural changes across time and With that said, there are some common threads, that seem to come up across all the Slavic lands, attributes of pre-Christian Slavic paganism. come up in the sources about all the Slavs, is the god Perun. Perun was described and war. He was also the keeper of oaths and was of Slavs in the 6th century by Procopius talk creator of the lightning bolt, is the sole lord of and all manner of victims ... nevertheless, they beings and make sacrifices to them too and perform According to Procopius, the 'creator of the lord of all things' even though Slavs did pray important Perun was in Slavic paganism, but as the 'sole lord' as Procopius erroneously seemed important god. Perun seems to have been venerated where each city venerated different patron gods so did different Slavic settlements and tribes deities while still recognizing the importance of Perun was the king of all gods, kind of like Zeus, or whether the Slavic pantheon even a more democratic one, we simply don't know. seem to come up in all areas of the Slavic world, know what exactly the interrelation between names from medieval sources actually represent or possibly even one god with three different in Eastern Slavic sources, while Svarozic is Svarozic's name, with the common Slavic suffix of there is an Eastern Slavic source which mentions mention Svarozic, who literally has the name ic suffix could be a diminutive in old Slavic, Svarog rather than Svarog's son, but in that case, a diminutive name of a god and an actual name and the diminutive and also never mention Svarog's son diminutive and the real name of Svarog, just like Svarog's son Dasbog, but the sources for that begs the question of whether Svarog has two just with two different names. Unless new sources for the role of these gods in Slavic paganism, one version of a 12th-century Primary Chronicle, his son Dazbog was the god of the sun. On top of argue against paganism mention that 'Svarozic' In the Western sources, the bishop Thietmar only called Svarozic and he is honored and worshiped by but there are no surviving mentions in As you can see, all three possible gods, Svarog, theme as they are gods of the forge, fire, and theme exists because they are related or because different name variations, is impossible to tell religions to have gods that, over time, meld into another. Considering the vast geographical and it wouldn't be far-fetched to think that all in different parts of the Slavic world. nature of these fire and sun gods, it is very worshipped the fire and sun in one way or another. Slavs as 'fire-worshippers', and a 13th-century the winter solstice and new year, the locals which 'brings them great joy'. A 15th-century Holy Wednesday they may not light the grumathky ritual'. Lastly, a medieval Christian Eastern 'worship the noon sun and bow towards it.' None doing these rituals, what is the symbolism of the for, but it is safe to assume that both the fire Slavs which is why they worshipped them and most The same can be said about the moon. Early have many lunulae, crescent moon-shaped amulets, the pagan Slavs worshipping the moon; like this stating that 'Take heed the naive who on the because they fall or could easily fall into hosts of heaven, for the moon, sun, or sky no sources explicitly mentioning a Slavic it is safe to assume that the Slavs worshipped The few gods discussed up until now are the while the rest of the Slavic gods mentioned in geographical areas. This does not mean these it just means we have no evidence but considering how sparse the medieval sources shouldn't necessarily be considered as evidence. attested in Eastern European records and nowhere the primary goddesses in Vladimir's pantheon 10th century. There are no surviving medieval of. However, in modern oral tradition, she is the sense, Mokosh was perhaps the quintessential Other gods mentioned in only specific literally meaning the three-headed one who Veles or Volos, an Eastern Slavic god of cattle, Redigast a god of oracles worshipped by Polabian who was worshipped on the island of Rugen. also perhaps a god of agriculture and war . There and with very little context mentioned in know from the sparse sources what kind of gods to each other. (Rugevit, Chernobog, Stribog, often had temples in urban centers inside of made of wood. These temples were taken care of by the gods and who oversaw venerations, rituals, the priests in eastern Slavic lands is attested word outside of the Eastern Slavic area. just like most other Indo-European pagans, also and rivers. Often, these areas were seen as have been both vengeful and helpful depending on of such creatures include Vily, a type of in medieval Eastern European sources but sadly however, also exist in modern Slavic folktales that exists in ponds and forests where they form helpful and vengeful depending on the story. in some kind of supernatural water person/goblin the fact that all modern Slavic languages have waterman (South Slavic vodenjak, the West Slavic that multiple medieval sources mention how the swamps, wells, and lakes. Many modern Slavic folk who lives in rivers and lakes and can be both Considering that early Slavs were also an agrarian of their rituals and festivals were centred pagan Slavic festivals is attested in the sources of the agricultural cycle at some point during of this festival in the sources is Rusalia or the Slavs from the pagan Romans who celebrated most likely originated in the Balkans, where, in Latin-speaking population. The Rusalia festival conducting plays, giving gifts, and travelling to the dead, and it was believed that the spirits world during this time . The medieval Chronicle of the pagans 'after offering libations to the dead and also to the graves made in the forests following the pagan custom, they hold at and they play profane games which, exciting their dressed as ghosts, in honour of their dead'. A about how 'on the morning of Easter Thursday dead'. These dead spirits were called Rusalky as and it's from here where the prominent Rusalka comes from. This association with the Rusalka is connected more with negative death like Vily and Watermen, which are more ambiguous. the dead was celebrated in some parts of but now it has completely died out as Easter There was also some kind of a Slavic pagan and during the winter and summer solstices, European religions. Common themes mentioned and rituals were the use of drinking horns, dancing, some kind of a communal feast, wearing usually animal sacrifice but not always. world mention pagan Slavs practising some form of 10th century talks about how unconverted pagans while another Byzantine source talks about throats of the majority of the [enemy] prisoners, homeland. As offerings to the dead, they drowned Western Chronicle of the Slavs talks about how gods, cows and sheep and also Christian men' sacrificed 'foreigners'. From the sources it human sacrifices conducted by Slavic pagans were preachers, and prisoners of war, well, with one we need to first talk about pagan Slavic funerals. record and corroborated by the written sources, poses a great problem because, by its very behind much more than the ashes of the deceased, Prague culture type and buried . This is why really exist . This means other than knowing that we don't know much else about them, as cremation without any other information, well, mention that the burial of Slavic men often As described by historians Alvarez-Pedrosa and in describing the burial ritual as the cremation of the widow in all the Slavic areas, that is, evidence of its ancient and pan-Slavic character.' 'majority them [Slavic women] consider the death drown themselves because they believe that to Byzantine source mentions the same thing, while talks about how '[the Slavs] who are the most so zealously respect the bonds of matrimony, dies. And they believe that a woman is worthy is burned along with her husband on the funeral were associated with these sacrifices of widows or the sources don't mention that. We also don't know meaning whether only certain parts of Slavic how voluntary this sacrifice was and whether Although medieval sources do not tell us the cremation , some modern historians believe that folk traditions, we can deduce why pagan Slavs folklore, there is an idea of the quote 'restless a socially problematic way and who weren't buried came back to haunt the living . The appropriate was a burial ritual that involved cremation cremated their dead because they believed this which could then move on to the back to haunt the living. By cremating the body soul move on to the afterlife. This is believed to practiced cremation burial rather than inhumation. disposed of, and if they died in what was seen as dead', they became what we know today as a vampire To explain, in medieval Eastern Europe, what we undead beings were back then simply known as the with strict classifications, and the Latin word with Slavic words, which today mean vampire, back then just meant a harmful undead being be described by these three words regardless a bloodsucker, had undead magical powers, or these words started to represent stylistically quote 'restless dead' creature. As pointed out by no resemblance to the genteel vampire of fiction. "revenant," a supernatural being who returns from who died before their time and have returned Two interesting stories about the Slavic 'restless 'In the year of the Lord 1336 ... in Bohemia, close rising from his tomb each night, would wander all the throats of the people he would speak to. When have done me, since you have given me a stick was exhumed to burn him, he swelled like an ox in the fire, someone took a stake and drove as if he were a tankard. In addition, when his legs shrunk as if he were alive, and when 'In the year of the Lord 1344. In Levin a woman out of her tomb and murder many, and then she [with a stake], the blood flowed as if she were a of her own shroud, which, when taken out of her, they could not get any type of wood to light according to the testimony of some old women. continued to rise up; but, when they were able to In both of these instances of a Slavic medieval themes, for example, walking around at night and needing a lot of blood, having to be impaled by a not necessarily with sunlight but in the latter Alvarez-Pedrosa and Marinas believe that the dead' were the creation of high to late medieval Christianized, they abandoned cremation burials in opposition to the proper disposal of the clash between former pagan practices and new and increase of sightings of the 'restless life since they weren't cremated anymore. This like the ones shared prior, often ended with pagan Slavic tradition dictated had to be done to according to this theory, the Slavic vampire society trying to come to terms with the cultural As is often the case in history, and none of this happened in a vacuum. Slavic paganism rather, it existed in a complicated web of Germanic, Baltic, Iranian, Roman, Celtic, and originating in the Balkans, the Latin name became the name for a Slavic spring festival Perun pendant, which is found all across a borrowing from the Norse tradition of wearing Perun and Thor also most likely melded into Norse settlers of Eastern Europe, assimilated writers would sometimes associate Slavic pagan familiar with, like in the case of the 11th of the '[Polabian Slavs being] still lost in the caught in the rattrap of ignorance, worshipping demons.' In the manuscript, the writer clearly Slavs but identifies their gods with the Germanic cremation burials, wolf veneration and more, just as prominent in Celtic, Germanic, or pagan along with the many others not mentioned, existed or because of a common Indo-European heritage Slavic paganism was a multifaceted heterogeneous influenced by all the cultures and religions that Special thanks to the people at the Museum for providing me with information, footage, this topic interesting, go check out their I would also like to stress that this video paganism, and even though I did talk about some academic circles, there are still more I didn't whether Slavs used the axe of Perun or whether it The existence of some gods is also being debated, also being debated, with some historians arguing without any greater shared pantheon of gods. all these academic arguments, go check out ALSO! Please check out my merch. It really is the embroidery, which looks very nice. The merch look and feel like merch of some kind of a going for. So, if you like that vibe and want to I will also add more merch as time goes on, but so I have to order production samples and test new merch shows up. However, if you have you would like to see, please let me know. which these videos would be impossible and and Rohan. Other than that, my name is