Welcome to another Mathologer video. You all right? And for most people they are just that: of course, you are a Mathologer regular. out in two earlier videos that these identities lead very interesting secret lives. Heron's that jazz.But what even most Mathologer regulars there are just the start of a very interesting Yes, and in fact, there is a whole world of go and explore :)Okay, infinite sequence, hmm, obviously, the next equation at the bottom is definitely check out those two earlier videos for what even most Mathologer regulars won't know yet the start of a very interesting infinite sequence there is a whole world of sum-equals-product infinite sequence, so what's next? :) Hmm. Well, this one here.x plus y plus z plus u equals we are looking for a solution of this new we want four positive integers on both sides pattern? Well, if we shuffle things around like things are starting to look very SUM-Metrical. of course :)Then2, 2, what's next? Another 2, and multiply what we've got so far. 2+4 that's your life on what number comes after 1 in this so let's try 1. On the right, multiplying by Can you see what's happening here? On the other the sum by 1. 7 and 8, almost equal. Obvious how the right. Nothing changes.Add 1 on the leftTada So replace 4 by 5. That makes the sum on the left product by 2.And now we know what to do. Just pad forever and ever after.2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and so on, pad out the rest with 1s such that in every right (click) is equal to the largest number in middle.4 terms and 4 in the middle, and so on. Two may come across a little bit like cheating but if you really don't have a choice. Because, then 2+2=2x2 is the only identity that works. one step further, it's clear that there are many start with a random assortment of positive you can even have some numbers repeat. Like for their sum and product.Then, as in this example, sum. Subtract the sum from the product.Then that difference number of 1s you get one of our left and multiply the same number of 1s on the the first time I stumbled across all this I right? But let's slow down :) After all, even lead to deep and beautiful mathematics.Right? You is. But at the same time some of the greatest important and hardest problems are about prime hypothesis is all about primes :)And, it turns out also full of pretty surprising prime number hypothesis, but still great stuff :) In the rest particularly nice mathematical marvel involving discovered 200 years ago by - you guessed it :) - these primes while working on Fermat's last problems at the time.But before I get started, brains to dig for mathematical treasure :)In your any of these sum-equals-product identities or For example, my friend Marty recently told me White in Inventiones Mathematicae,one of the most a lot of very high-powered mathematics, 2+2=2x2 come together. Really quite wonderful. Anyway, sum-equals-product identities and equations please now let's have a close look at the world call the number of terms on one side of a the identity. So, 2+2=2x2 has length 2 natural to ask how many sum-equals-product it's natural for us mathematicians to ask this plot of these numbers of identities up to by the Polish mathematician Zah-kar-CHEM-nee that weird looking plot :) Definitely not the nice but a standard plot regardless, consisting of the smallest length 2 and length 10,000. Right, above it is the number of sum-equals-product 25.Clearly the dots are all over the place. identities for different lengths are all over growth. But the trend is not very trendy, is larger and larger numbers of identities (click) popping up. (click) Let's have a closer look at we know that for every length there is one over there. In fact, for length 2 there is only the equation X + Y = Y x X only has one solution next equation.The only solution (up to shuffling sum-equals-product identity. Same for length 5 we also have this second sum-equals-product For length 5 there is a total of three identities, there should be lots of identities of length one again.And, after this, things continue up to for you. First, can you find all the identities which there are more than 10 identities? so what's a natural question to ask here? that question is taboo around here :) Seriously, about "For which lengths is there only one basic is the only one?" Right? Natural question? 4, and 6. Are there more?Yep, 24.It turns out identity of length 24. And then, we also have to hunt for the next one? Maybe not :) In fact, lengths up to 10 billion and have not discovered maybe that's it, and the list ends with 444. But is very suggestive, but ten billion is still a this question? Well, we could leave the computer of time, and we're probably a little too impatient to a solution?Well, a good starting point would have in common. Right? Okay, so have a look at any common trait that sticks out to you? Hmm. I could just tell you the surprising answer. I will do what I often do, I'll kidnap you, and naturally to this answer. Let me know in the Okay, let's start with something easy. Let's one positive integer solution of this equation, mission? Easy! Solve for one of the variables, on.Okay, just one Y left and it would now at this point an experienced algebra torturer simultaneously isolate both variables :) Have cancel out the -1. Right, -1+1, cancels out to ThereThat's nice isn't it? We managed to rewrite way. In particular, this means that both so, what are those solutions? Well, easy. Since numbers X-1 and Y-1.But then what this says is green integer equals 1. Of course this means that both are equal to -1. Right? 1 times 1 is 1 and -1 numbers are equal to 1.Then, well, what? X-1 is 1. the other hand, if both orange and green are is Y.0+0=0x0 that's also correct but we decided, of us :) that we'd only be interested in solutions definitely a slick way to show that we have only all this mucking around leaves us just one step this nicely symmetric equation is equivalent here's another trick. Just shuffling everything in we obtain a third equivalent equation.Does difference between a product and a sum?Right, then this difference tells you how many 1s you our identities. In the case of X and Y both now let's consider any old X and Y. Then the some other number, let's call it D.Then the exact equivalent equation at the top.Easy for you to No freeloading here :) Anyway, let's check using times 7, that's 14 minus 2+7,..., 9, 14-9 is 5.Okay And, actually, if we do that we just get one about at the top?X-1, that's 2-1. 2-1 is 1.andY-1, the difference 5 from before plus 1, 5+1 is 6. 3.But, then, if X-1 is 2then X is 3.And if Y-1 is Y, to get another difference of 5 at the bottom. now that means that if we pad out 3 and 4 with identity of the exactly the same length as the where I am going with this? Well, what we just new sum-equals-product identities from our basic streamlined way of creating new sum-equals-product let's start with the basic sum-equals-product out with 5 1sAlright, 7 minus 1, that's the 6.6 is our new sum-equals-product identity of length 7 of length 5.5 minus 1 is 44 is 2 times 22 plus identity of the same length as the basic one here is what quite a few of you will already since 5 is prime, the only way to write 5 as a 1 to both 1 and 5, gives...2 and 6. Which after started. In general, for a given length N our identities if N-1 is a prime number and at least a prime number.And that tells us something very was to try to determine, without using a computer there exists just the one basic sum-equals-product any of those special numbers minus 1 must be a Those are the known special lengthsAll minus prime numbers. Well, that 1, the first of the right? 1 used to be a prime and is at least still 1 and itself, which is what matters here. Anyway, one of these special lengths, does not matter how prime number.So, we only need to look for special by 1 are prime numbers. Hmm, that's all definitely but still there are a lot of prime numbers, and those particular primes up there. To track down look at our line-up of small cases. All clear so cases. What I've hightlighted in this list are identities that our streamlined way of making new produces. Remember, this infinite family and the neat prime number insight. Another close look at family of identities. This second infinite family really neat prime insight about our special here are the first two identities in our second go from length 5 at the top to 2,2,2 in the blue box?Well we've not got much to work with so identities in this family.222, 223, 224. So we're let's see...233 not 225 :) In fact, if you look at is the fact that we always get a 2 and something, to all these new identities, maybe the better And how does the 8turn into 2 3? Well, actually, rule is, now that we know what we are gunning for and Y up there such that both sum-equals-product that?Easy, do some algebra torturing :) First, identity at the top is what? Well, the length is N are N-2 1s. Right?On the other hand, the number of as usual, the product of 2, X and Y minus the sum in the first identity than in the second. Have second expression makes both expressions equal.Now Y as previously recasts this equation in this involved should be a piece of cake for you and the corresponding equation for our first rule is remember, the first equation translates into this identities: subtract 1 from NWrite N-1 as a Y. Similarly, for our new second rule we multiply finally, add 1 to each factor and divide by is the new rule in practice:2 times N-1, so 2 9 is 3 times 3add 1 to each factor and then divide that common 2.E voila, here is our new special the basic one we started with.Another example2 we are stuck. Next,2 times 7 is 14, minus 1 is 3 times 5+1 divided by 2, both of them. 3+1 is 4 is 3... 2 3join in the common 2 in front. And of characterising our special lengths?Well, we minus 1 must be prime. But now with our new rule, prime as well. Right? There, all those new numbers we ever find another one of those special lengths, another prime. Super interesting and surprising, doesn't it? What are the chances that both N-1 and what are the chances that, given a prime number P, mentioned at the beginning of this video, it was the first to ponder this question around theorem.Because of this, a prime number P such Germain prime.One of Sophie Germain's major claim to make significant progress towards proving exponents. Prior to her research people only not heard of Sophie Germain, definitely check life. Completely self-taught, had to pretend the whole bit.Okay, history lesson done. Back to 1 is a Sophie Germain prime, right?What about the also a special length minus 1? The answer to this you are cheering for, there are a lot more Sophie primes are nowhere near as rare as one might Germain primes up to 113.Computer searches have which also happen to be useful in cryptography. may well be infinitely many Sophie Germain families of sum-equals product identities that course many other infinitely families one can our special lengths. This is in fact possible, about today has been discovered. Anyway, check out for more details.Ooookay, what other interesting there? Let's finish up with that.First off, if I up there are the only special lengths, with just "Yes", those are the only ones :) But, then, what special sum-equals-product identities? A couple were of that type. There, at the bottom, there 8 and 9.Turns out that the list of known lengths we know of 49 such lengths, the largest known these numbers. Turns out that if there are then the number N-1 or the number 2N-1 or both are are the corresponding N-1s and 2N-1s.And here a pretty cute result, too, don't you think? :) of these N-1s or 2N-1s is not a prime, such a a prime number in a certain sense. What does it check out the details in the description of this hear that all sum-equals-product identity experts ones corresponding to exactly 2 identities. for any fixed number of identities there are that number. All very intriguing and lots tackled in this area. Anyway, that's it for of any interesting occurrences of our special zillions of people in this respect was one of the