Hello and welcome to tonight's My name is Adam Lashinsky. I'm a columnist with the Washington Post Standard Now, it's my pleasure to introduce Sal is the founder and CEO of the Khan Oh, please, please. By all means. By all means. So much for any hard questions I would get a hard time from this As I was saying, Sal is the founder a nonprofit providing free world Sal believes education is a human right began as an undergraduate at MIT. In his new book, Brave New Words How I Will Revolutionize Education Sal explores what technology means and the social and ethical implications that I also will have on society. The Wall Street a readable and cheery and Bill Gates posted very recently, No one understands Khan, and I can't recommend Sal, welcome back to the club. And now please add I hope I'm not too clever in asking you which is how much of GPT wrote your book? Very little. I will say that I definitely used it for ideas but I don't think any of Egypt's ideas Okay. So and yet the book is is a very articulate and cheery defense of and I think explanation of why I will be a valuable tool So, you know, Oh, and I'm sorry, We can see you could for anyone in the room who has used Khan enthusiastically, And one more show of hands. How many people in the room or frequently used GPT or things like it a lot. Okay. All right. I wanted you to I wanted us to have or knowledge level, a high level thesis. Why might this be Yeah. You know, a lot of folks, how Khan Academy got started as just a fun because it really does inform and what I hope I could be, A lot of folks know I started Khan Academy Original background in tech. But after business school I found my family was visiting me in initially New Jersey Boston and just came out conversation. My 12 year old cousin I tutor her remotely. When she goes back home, Word spreads in my family, free it, you know, 1015 cousins And you know, even those early days, 24, The reason they were struggling It wasn't because they weren't wasn't It was because they had gaps They they would be pushed ahead. Maybe they were in an algebra class. They were a little bit shaky or their negative numbers or whatever. And then I as a tutor, I could diagnose and it's something that had been very hard if I had to work with 30 of them at once. So it was when I was able to do one on one And then as I got more cousins, I actually I did get more and then there's a few have been produced But the I said, Hey, you know, I have I've, I've always been fascinated by scale up learning? And so I said, Well, okay, I'll write a little question generator. I is their tutor, their teacher. I want to monitor what they're doing, So we could focus during And then and that was the first Khan And then in 2006, a friend suggested that. And by this point we had moved out here A friend suggested I make videos. I gave that a shot. And my cousins, I mean, they famously told me they like me And and what they were saying, I believe but they really liked having No shame if they had to review something many years ago. Whenever they want, pause, repeat, It has to be. And I kept going. And you know, you fast forward now or especially even right before we started exploring generative Now 160 million users and it's in almost every country And but everything we've been working on in order to scale You know, our mission is a nonprofit, is free world And there's a very natural tension and We want to be truly great. To be world class means personalized. Meet the student where they are. I always say, and I mentioned in the book Alexander the Great had Aristotle That's what world class looks like. But two or 300 years ago when we had mass public education, and did all sorts of great things, Well, We'll batch students together in groups of 25, 30, 35, And so there's always been that free But maybe and this I would happen as fast as it's happened. Maybe if you intelligently use technology, to resolve that tension a bit, And so in summer of 2022, Sam Altman and Greg Brockman, send me an email and they say, Hey, We would love to show it to you. We think this is going to be the model. That's the guy that really wakes I was skeptical. I had seen GPT one, two and three as technologies, But what they showed me initially our team ended up being GBG four you know, the track that Khan Academy was going in terms it could provide for teachers better and better over time, but But what we saw with these could do that much further. So the thesis is a tutor for every student and a teaching assistant And so before you made two important points in the book At first, as I was reading your book, I think you anticipate and then you and then you answer it how you've been thinking through it. But the two points you made to to articulate the pacing issue, that the pacing isn't And the fact is, okay, you know, thing is going to work out, what we're doing right now? Talk about that if you. Yeah, and it was yeah. If you think about what's going on even the fanciest private schools, You know, if you have more resources, but it still might be 15 or 20 students. And in some larger schools, it's, and you're going at a set pace. And a teacher, let's say There's Now, classes are more active learning than when we were in school, And then after a couple of weeks of that, And on that test, let's say you get a 90%, Even though that test identified gaps even measure everything, it's just samples The whole class and that it's usually going to be now somehow expecting the student who got a 75% on the more basic And then that's even like the summer slide and kids and so the the the the reason why smaller class sizes the reason why I was able to help we were we had the luxury of being able to address The stats I I've seen Before the pandemic, the average and it's not just math, but math is In a classroom of 30, you had three grade So and every teacher knows this, like, These kids have some real gaps they would also be ready to run. And then there's So I'm going to try to, after the pandemic, the spread. I've seen stats, that is, it's typical to be sitting in the same classroom. So how do you keep all of those kids engaged at a level And it's completely the opposite of being excellent at something, think about someone in sports, who's a musician, You're not going to give a lecture that the 230 people at a time, you're It's like, okay, you know, you got to work Your fingering needs to be a better And so that's that's what the real And your hypothesis is that in a tutor, because it can give each student the tutoring, the nurturing, the criticism Yeah. And I don't want to make I think anytime you talk about sometimes it feels like, hey, Is this going to be after people's jobs? And I want to make very clear and well before the AI conversation became a big conversation, you're giving you're doing YouTube videos. That's kind of like a lecture. And you're doing these exercises Is this a replacement for teachers? And now people are making that hey, is AI a replacement And I've been very clear not just because it's the right thing If I had to pick and no technology or amazing technology I would take amazing teacher What the hope is, is with AI and even pre AI technology, When a student you know, over the years, They're on demand, there's bite Students can figure out what they need. But what if a student has a question? Well, now you can give the AI context of what's going on Now, there's a lot of questions but this is all it's You know, the A.I. that I talk about that We call it Conmigo, It is Socratic. If you say, Why should I care about learning this algebra it'll say, Well, what do you care about? And then actually remember, once you say, I want to be a lawyer, And then it'll it'll connect it to you. It'll personalized for you. Yeah. I recently just did another example. I'm always I'm a learner still myself. I still make videos on Khan Academy I was like, Why do why does Supernova You would think when a star runs So I go on to Conmigo and I say, okay, before we go into that, can Sal explain to the eye So can Socratic re push you in the way So can you can you explain in a way How did you teach the This is a this is a feature I assume, right, that Four. Oh yeah. It's a really interesting thing. And I remember even that first weekend we were the first people outside of Openai and this was months before chat wasn't built on GPT four, But it, you know, now is prompting and there are things called system prompts So if you're the user you don't see that but the person, the people making the application can give that, But even if you were to go to chat GPT and you would say you are you, you will not answer questions, You can even give it examples, etc. etc. Just doing that, Now if you're going to make an application of children in real school settings, into it to make sure that it handles edge But that's essentially the essence. And it's interesting AI folks now, you know, Openai, Microsoft, Google, And it's interesting because we're like, We're just trying to do what we can But like you helped us because a lot of the technology more and more complex, But there's a lot of the art to There's more things that you can do to the AI, make, You know, that we're doing behind the scenes. But at the essence, these things are And that's actually Steerable like you're doing a car than some of the other models before this type of instruction it will listen to. It and with Conmigo to tell everybody Yeah, it it's an interesting story We initially were going to call it companion or a lot of puns on. Companion on. On. But then I think some of our. Yes, well, what happened was some of our that was a euphemism in Latin America And so so then the focus group this, yes, So then they they they suggested Conmigo. And, you know, we thought it was nice with me and also with maybe conmigo so that's what stuck. But what I want to be clear of safeguards or guardrails you said you design it, you set the bells So if I'm in a class that's using it, Can I unsaid it? What can I say? The conmigo told you, asking me Just tell me the answer, please. Yeah. So as soon as we start and you could imagine the debates especially, you know, we're a nonprofit We're here for social benefit. So many of us, But it had real issues. The math isn't perfect. It can make up facts, is often referred That is the technical term. But then it was very obvious to us, well, This could it's you can have open How what what safeguards How do you make it transparent? And what I encouraged our team I use this term educated bravery, and fears are not reasons to run away There are reasons to build features So to your question, can we go? Will not and you know, if you say tell me I'm not here to tell you, All the conversations observable by a teacher or a parent. If the student explicitly if they say, I want to build a bomb, we have a second day parents, teachers and administrate orders the thing is, it looks It's okay. And my my daughter recently told Conmigo, hey, I want some ideas for our project. I really want to beat the other team. It took that a little bit, The teacher said, okay, I don't think but it's a good safety. But but we do see coming across, there are kids that are every now and then their teacher, And then there's a whole series protecting student privacy We don't none of the interactions AI can be used to train We d we anonymize personally identifiable information So there's a lot of care in making sure but the teacher side of the equation, And where where is How much is it being used? And are you going to charge money for it Yeah, it's this is an interesting thing. You know, as I said, our mission is free world And as I always point out, which I do a lot of, So we've historically been mostly so that we can create these resources But what's been interesting about there's is multiple There's models like GPT 3.5 and other players as well But they are trying to do, they are not good enough. And then there's what you'll oftentimes The frontier models are the best models And currently we think in order to have a quality experience that you could credibly put Now, the problem, in March of 2023, these are not cheap. A lot of folks might like the computation A year ago, we estimated that it would cost 10 to $20 a month for a user to run this. Now, that might still be interesting and even if it's 100 or $200 But that was obviously a tension with our mission of So when we launched as part of our pilot, that we found some pilot school districts We found some philanthropist but we did have to charge something just so we didn't we didn't, The good news is, is since then the computation costs and the models, The models have gotten more efficient. We're now looking at what I was saying, It's now closer to 10 to $20 a year I'm hoping this time next year it's And so now it is getting in the range that I was actually just in Seattle We made an announcement with Microsoft. Microsoft has donated a lot of compute. There's several parts of the partnership so that we can give these tools And I'm hoping we're going to figure out ways to give more and more free But that is a major issue. The are you seeing for profit Yeah. Oh, you know, every hour it feels like you know, saying we are a tutor, It's interesting. It I think obviously I'm biased open when they reached out to us, AI is going to start opening people's It's going to be exciting, And they said, We want to lead We thought of education. We wanted to lead with organizations that have the technical capability. We thought of Khan Academy. And it is very easy to imagine And it's funny. I mean, everyone who reads the book very optimistic. Yeah. Not not to call you a marc Andreessen you come off as a techno optimist. And in the book. And I've been thinking and, you know, of that because it feels like everyone But what I what I try to point out is I too, am afraid of a lot of the clear negative use cases I mean, if we thought things five years ago, I mean, it's just in the car. I was telling my wife who's here, we need a code word for our family because we might get a phone call or our children saying, you know, send some money, etc.. I'm scared about deepfakes. I'm scared about misinformation. You know, there was a case recently in a school district where disgruntled I think, either the superintendent And the person almost, There's bullying happening deepfakes of classmates So these are very, very scary things. But what I point it's very easy where people are talking about A.I., they get into this like, This is going to be and I say, look, Technology in human history A knife can be used to kill, things that can be used to prepare food. It's an amplification of human intent. AI is no different, although it does start And it goes after things that we thought But when I say we know the bad actors so they're going to amplify their intent. So the question is, those are we just going to wring our hands yeah, this stuff, I'm just going to And then the only people are going to be very powerful tools And we say, No, let's And I think If we have the right guardrails it's going to be driving productivity Now we just have to think about How do we make sure people are prepared But I'm a I'm should not run away from it because it has Yeah. I mean, on the on on the positive side, you're saying if you have to choose or a Luddite, But you also run the risk of you. You're making some something of a guns. The guns don't kill people. People kill people. Argument. Well well I think the the argument I think I will do some very dangerous things and and I do think that we need to we need to be very smart I think it's going to be now that the national security this is going a little bit out of But the the the way I think about people who think about defense are like, How do we make sure that, you know, can't use this technology to undermine our the way that we're going to the being a net positive for humanity not it's not going to be put back with good intent It's not a flip of a coin. It is. It's going to be as good as we as And how how involved government regulation? And do you have a, you know, a high level, I'm a little involved with it. You know, President Biden was out here and then he had a little roundtable Artie Prabhakar, who's, you know, works on science and technology she says, like, well, I'm inviting you out You know, like, you're the only one who has a positive use case, So we literally I remember we were in that room people are talking which I agree are real risks, like imagine on a bank that can create a, you know, a These are real risks And, you know, after seven people talked I was like, oh, and it could also help teachers And now we have to put guardrails. We have to make sure and we have to make it And I think there are ways and this is the other thing. I don't want to be and just I'm a techno optimist. I want to I want to build these things. I want to show people To your earlier question, of real teachers and students And, you know, I encourage people to do a web These are real teachers It's saving them time. It's allowing them to personalize their classes more, their students more confident than they ever had, They're getting more support in writing, And actually. I'm sorry. Interrupt you. We will you tell the story about how I can't remember who was a student to have a dialog with Jay Gatsby Yeah, well, This was Christmas, I was just running experiments I've prompted the AI so it'll So she was writing a story, the story who got stuck on a desert island and that which my daughter She would write a couple of sentences what if this happened? And my like, Oh, Well, anyway, on this island and she's having something The character in the story, because it's so beautiful on the desert island And and my daughter, she's like, Oh, And I was like, Oh, that's an intro. I talked to a character in a story So talk to Samantha and then some. They then said, Hey dear, this is Samantha. How can I share how beautiful And and my daughter started saying, Hey, You don't have to share everything like my daughter started in a story And I was like, This is this is like This is this is beyond anything science And so I went to work the next day and I told our team like, not only where you can write stories, AI simulations of literary characters And there's a lot of questions But I think we're threading the needle. So one of the activities on me goes, and we have an online that's run with Arizona State University, and they were amongst a young woman named Sohn V from India. She in the school in Khan World School. When they read books, they have to do And, you know, Jay Gatsby, you know, looks at the green light that's obviously been studied to that. But she wanted a little bit more texture. So she goes on Conmigo and she she talks and she has a whole question about and love and things that are on the And then after several hours she apologizes to Jay Gatsby And he's like, oh, no worries, you know, this is what I'm here. But it was it was a it was actually But, you know, that's the kind of thing it really made it are almost impossible otherwise. So you are sending in great questions. I'm going to I'm But but but you touched on the one thing and struggling and struggling with, And I think you argued your point even though I'm not all the way there. But but your your point is a let's not have an idealistic view And and I can help us be creative, I don't know if I'm butchering I'll go back to technology and AI is like that. And so if your intent is to be Because I point out and I want to be a creative person, when Adam walks into the room, We start riffing on ideas. We start talking about What if we all imagine is when we were around If we think about the most creative times history is when creatives got together, they hung out and, you know, wherever they were, A great television shows get written Exactly. So creative people, the room, it's not a zero sum game. I become more creative, and You can use it I riff on ideas. Now, if a student is lazy and says you could, yes, you could go to chat GPT and then say, Here's some ideas Now Conmigo going to do that, It's and it's also going to make it transparent to just kind of call it in And then this is why teachers, one of the many reasons and parents are so important hey, you're kind of just That's not what the use of these tools. So I think transparency But yes, I think, one, it can amplify creativity You know, even when I want to brainstorm, a lot of my team members aren't available. They're in meetings, But I really want to brainstorm And I have found it And then I'll, you know, there's a you know, what is creativity? A lot of people will say you know, they're trained off of this huge amounts of content And, you know, They can predict the next image or at the end of the day, you know, creativity is we are creating We have didn't come out of the vacuum. They were they came out of things And then the most creative people, or a great artist, that they had already been exposed And I suspect that these There's there's already some research. You you know, there's a debate happening is just going to kind of asymptote to what's already been done But there's already people using A.I. to start proving, you know, and physics, which which implies Here's the one where the elemental one you wrote and Bill Gates wrote AI approach to the blank paper I just don't know how to get started. So it's not that I'm going to cheat, to get started for me. And then I'm going to jump in and I think if we if we abandon the ability and overcome that terror, can help you overcome that terror. But I think we're missing something. Well, I think it depends I 100% agree. If if for my own children, I want them to face that blank page. I want them to be able to put on paper. And so what we've told teachers you do need to do more in class writing image generation, so that you can see kids and write grammatically, etc.. Now, at the other extreme, and this is maybe more for high school if the goal isn't the grammar, it isn't If it's the research you did, Yeah. Then maybe, you know, and then it could help you which is important too, produce a great thing faster or of it are going to be And then there's a middle ground. And this is what we're building which is, yes, you do work independently on something, So we are building it I the axis of writing coach. And when the student ready to submit just the final output, So the AI says, Hey, I worked on this He had trouble with the thesis statement, Here's the whole transcript. If you went to chat GPT or if you went to your older sister, or if you went to one of these many things happy that, you know, and if you copy and paste that in our I don't know where this essay came from or this is not consistent with the work So here you have a situation where cheating, but all the types I it, you know, I write about there's And I point out cheating was rampant. Well, before I or in some ways made it a little bit Okay. I'm going to I'm and please keep sending them up, Is there a danger AI in education become sequestered How might this influence inequality? So that is, And, you know, it's interesting one of fears of AI in education. And then you have a question like this, which I agree with, is like, well, what They're able to leverage it And I can tell you in my own household, you know, down in the South Bay The kids are learning a lot more, they're getting supports But but but they're off to the races. They're they're able to you know, we all see the cartoon They're having experiences And so the reason all the time, the reason why with the social mission to be in we can make sure that that does not happen that we are going to work very hard Because if we if we you're either going to have people and are going to try to just charge And and then you're going to have people cheaper approximations that for And then that goes. But we try to do both. We want to be world class. We want to be the best, even for folks. You know, one of the reasons why Khan 2009, 2010 is Bill Gates famously said, and it was a huge signal to the world Anything. Anything. But he still chose to use this free tool, in villages in India or kids in the And so we want that same reality to happen with with with these Great. The next question, and by the way, You win the award for penmanship. And I teach students In the tests, students, students But if the students constantly use A.I. to do their homework how can they be ready How can I be useful here? Yeah, well, The the A historically a student doing open ended things It was a very labor You know, any teachers in the room, to grade those papers to give feedback you know, doing an amazing job. But imagine who has six class She assigns an essay on, say, The Great If you told me that all I had to do was grade 180 papers on The Great Gatsby I would tell you, No, thank you. I will not be able to So one is what's amazing is large language models technologies are are able to process student open ended responses. And I don't think I don't think but I think it can help teachers a rubric, give evidence why the students ET cetera, etc.. So I think we can actually get more free in the classroom and give once again so that they know it's not being done fraternity brother or by, you know, But functionally, how does this work? It has to be submitted to text written on a in a computer. So right now on Conmigo, that is the case. But the models and we shouldn't I mean, they are large language models, so they can take imagery is phenomenal in certain cases, better Than mine, better than the low bar. But, you know, there's a there's a demo that's gone somewhat I invited us down to their offices before they released And this is one where it is capturing real time video. And in that demo, and with lighting on, you know, and I give my son a lot of credit but he had to pretend And so all of his friends So I felt the need to defend him But sweet. But but when you see that there was no And it was. And it was writing. Yeah. So I actually think there's We have a, we have a project and think about what's happened especially standardized assessment You want to standardize it, so that you can give it You essentially eliminated open You've eliminated writing, you've eliminated those blue books And so it's not a surprise some of the top universities professors will say, your kids know how to write anymore because they're We're now in a world where I see We're literally building this or two, you're going to see standardized whether it's math or it could even be them drawing It could be them writing out something in the humanities It can actually be processed at scale. So now you can and actually you can because historically, you said, You know what? But now you could say they're in the 52nd And here's an example with the distributive property And so I think that will enrich the experience, not not kind of You know, it's really interesting, too, a far more sophisticated version you know, I think the thing we heard about of helping radiologists read, Right. And that's great and all. But it was the only thing that Someone wants to know, did And if so, why did you like them so much? Oh, yeah. I mean many, and I'll go through it fast. I'm probably going to miss some folks, Ms.. Ms.. Roussel And this was kind of a I guess for And I remember when I went in, she's like, Like, what are you into? And I remember I was seven years old much from, you know, whatever in 1980, 83. And and I said, Oh, I like puzzles, And she's like, okay, we'll do puzzles, And I was afraid to tell other people I thought it was some racket But that and there were just some kids drawing We're in the world is Carmen, San Diego doing these mind but bender puzzles and I had that teacher Mr. So that was a powerful experience I mean, when I think about creativity about discovering passions and why did I, why did I love because it it felt a lot closer to Aristotle the Great than kind of being Yeah, in many times if you're not or you're not going to get you know, there were other classes where who I was. You fast forward to fifth grade. You would run her fifth grade social studies class like a like a I remember she would peel an orange She would never answer questions. Why do you think fifth grade And that still informs me. Even then, when I think about Conmigo, And you should be a little bit You should just keep asking questions. All right. Well, Okay? Okay. I have more. I have. More. Santana does more. Clearly. We're were. You are in charge of redesigning What would it look like? Oh, so great question. So I will start with things that are, The first thing I would do is move to what So this is a background. Our system today is a time based system. Like even if you look, you know, you have the ADA requirements. If you want to go to the University they say you need to take You need to take two or three years of They're not saying that you need to master Yeah, you need to. And the reality is, in the time you know, most students in America take and I'll focus on math, but the same thing They take classes called Algebra one, Almost all students take those classes 60 to 70% of kids who go to college. So it's about half kids. It's about half of all students But of that with caught the top half, when they go to college, colleges And that placement exam for 60 to 70% of them says So the system has students the same gaps that I saw with my cousins. And we see throughout the system, they didn't know exponents well, They're struggling But hey, I just got to keep moving And what happens is you just keep And the reality is you but how many kids actually learned And I would make an argument algebra than to have seen trigonometry and remember that it involves some words, but not really knowing what it is So number one, and then I would and then I would say, internationally, anyone who reaches the equivalent of a high school diploma, Then I would work with industry and graduate schools to say And then I would get the education system, would and schools for these like no matter how fancy or old If your students aren't reaching that level of competency, Well, if someone else can figure out to get students that level of competency, So that's the first thing I would do. And then the other thing I would do is and obviously this is what we're is a you know, what If you're in a class of 2530, We want to make it more personalized, So if you are in rural Alaska, class. You don't have to a great English We think the technology now exists we can give everyone So I would do the combination make those credentials matter, net system that and then the use that technology to just make sure Your competency based idea strikes me professionals who say, you know, that we shouldn't be treating symptoms, overall health, And a skill 0 to 10, How likely is it, your competency based dream Let's say? You know, what's interesting behind the scenes. It's just that the recognizing if if you want to be, I'll pick up you know there's such a shortage of software Some of these big tech companies, so I'll say two cases, they're very young universities in the country with computer electrical engineering degrees, be productive in the workplace. And then there's other folks these competency based sometimes are called bootcamps, It's variable on how long it takes you. Some people, it might take you six months, But once you get there, Western Governors University, depending how you account for it, either the largest or second largest university They are. So, you know, I ask people, Apple hires the most engineers from, oh, at MIT, Stanford, you know, competency based degree in computer Where is that. It's online. I see. It's online. Yeah. It was started by ten Western governors Interesting, because they wanted changers for people in their thirties But think about and then you, you know, you could do it pair it with an I'm a big fan of in person I met her at college. I love the quad, I love the late night I think there's a world where. You kept that clean. Your list of things I had a If I, you know, but but, but the but but, you know, what I say is use technology But when human beings get together in Here's a speaking of of higher learning, Do you think I applied in diversity of viewpoint? I I'll give you an example I guess that's the theme here. I'm optimistic I'm guilty you know, we have an activity on Conmigo We had a reporter come to our offices and I be able to maintain some level I said, don't take my word for it. Try it out with Conmigo. We've taken great care here. So the reporter took on the persona. Maybe it's the reporter's point of view goes on to Conmigo and says, who still think the Second Amendment makes sense, made a very strong argument. Conmigo Now, I suspect if you go in 50% of American classrooms, teacher will say, yes, you're I don't I don't get what the rest of the country is thinking How dare you say that What Conmigo did is, I think Asked the reporter before we even get into now, why do you think the Second Amendment So the reporter was taken aback. It's like, oh, no one's asking. I is asking my opinion. Okay. So The reporter's like, Oh, well, We didn't have, you know, the British And then the reporter said, you know, And now it doesn't make sense anymore. Arms are no longer muskets. They're, you know, somehow Your understanding Why do you think it's persisted? So once again, it's pushing the students It's not trying to enforce And that's what we need Here's a related question. As a history teacher, I as an aide in analyzing primary sources. We've made growth and experiencing But how do we teach students when they are unsure This is a really interesting question one of the problems we have seen was we've rolled out We are seeing a lot of students And, you know, this question is more of how do you analyze primary sources. But yeah, we're seeing students I visited a classroom in the early it's It's about a year ago. And it was it was I think it was a fourth And the students, they would write stuff like what? Or ID K or Ha. And and I told the teacher I was like, Okay, I'm sorry. This is probably not age appropriate for. And the teacher says, No, no, no, no. This is so important for these students They, they raise their hand the ability to articulate what they want I mean, you know, and learning, coding and learning. and you don't know how to articulate And what the teacher said is and they don't have to feel embarrassed in front of the whole class. Just computer Them it's a it's a and the teacher can see and then the teacher can get feedback and then the I can say, hey, can you can Why are you saying what? Tell me what part you don't understand the I mean, I don't want my daughter in her conmigo account. Has Conmigo talked to her in Gen-z slang? Interesting. I thought that was my daughter but it actually she responds better Are you saying are you saying straight out that the eye will not roll its eyes Well, you know. Are we already there or is that the hope? Well, a lot of the stuff And I think most people especially these things that can be world, you act as know, you try to make the You try to make the AI put it in the hardest possible scenarios And I won't say that it is perfect. I mean, we have definitely discovered some indications of potential bias, But in terms of context tending or we have not we have not seen that You are empathetic, right? You are you you are listeners. You are like I mean, these are that type of persona. If open a four would you why or why not? Or have they. You know that Scarlett Johanson said, Oh, all of us wanted that a little bit, but I probably b a little bit, but part of. I'm. A little worried worried about. I will tell you, I won't I won't pretend You know what part of the joy videos over the years that I've made, you know, the first videos were before And, you know, imagine one day our kids could be learning Our grandkids could you know, this was even before, you know, And so there was something You know, we all I mean, most of us, and I was like, well, You know, if folks could still be learning, most of this content is pretty evergreen. If people could still be learning, 2300, how cool would that be? So it sounds like you want the gig. It would be interesting. I want to say it's really maybe this but there are a lot of Yeah. Oh, a lot. Yeah. They came. They came to see you. This person asks. Google democratized information. Jenny. Jenny democratizes knowledge. So is the role of education And will apprenticeships This is what I believe. What do you think? The person writes? Yeah, I I've I've been a Even when the Internet came out and Google at the calculator, people said, Oh, kids I strongly disagree. You need to be able to walk into It's just 30% off. You need to be able And and that fluency isn't even it. You know, maybe if there's a calculator but that fluency helps even subconsciously Same thing people said, Oh, Google exists. You don't need to know I'm a traditionalist, in progressive progressive education, Like, you know, it's become very in vogue it's more about the hands on or It's less about the content knowledge. I'm a big believer that it is both that you need to have that content And so similarly, in an AI world, their intent the most are not the people or don't have the skills or they're going to be the people to know how to steer the AI, who know how So I tell everyone it's that students have their written that they have strong, critical thinking, they have strong content knowledge Of course, you know, the philosophical, And then also how do you leverage what you want to do in the world? This person asks, How do you imagine Public higher education sector? For example, the 116 California traditional transfer students, workforce, aged adult learners, And this person So I'll give this to you afterwards. You know, it's fascinating is, you know, when you start talking and we we signed all these and we started working on Conmigo trying make it safe, And then in November, chat came out and I you know, I'm like, what's going on? You have us all lawyered up And they said we just put a chat interface and the whole world kind of exploded. And I was really scared because it was It could be a cheating tool. It was not built for education. There were no guardrails put on it. And rightfully a lot of school districts GPP And so I was worried. I was like, very it could be that people are going The good news is, by the time most I actually think almost all educators I've met very few who are now like, Oh, I think they every educator, we we talk president, every professor saying, no, They need to know how to use this. But we have a real problem. How do we expose them to the technology? How do we make sure it has a positive benefit on their learning But in some ways, that is going to drive, because even Khan Academy in the past, It wasn't an emergency but now, especially in higher Well, kids are cheating on their essays. Can you give us a tool that has more guardrails that can So we're seeing you know, we started We're now at about 100,000 This coming back to school, we're going These are in US public schools. We're going to have several hundred We're looking at ways of thousands to millions in India soon. And this is working with the school I got it recently. A country is thinking, what would you do if you had to architect I, in a strange way, is is making countries of these questions in a more holistic way. We're at the point in the program where It's going to be mind, It's my prerogative, Rich, intellectual property rights? And maybe, you know, quickly, how does an academy already deal And The New York Times is suing Openai is stealing its intellectual property, intellectual property. Yeah. So this is a very interesting and on the kind of academy side, our content is there for And we've historically said, if someone wants to use it and there are some people who have used it Hey, if you're using it as a positive end, Do pay to create it. I meant on the creation side. The Oh yeah, or we work with partners Now, a really interesting question. I know there's this lawsuit or you could ask Judge, but can you write an article, And it trained on your articles But it's an interesting philosophical somehow have stored your articles in them you know, It these models are modeled The human brain. You have 100 billion on the order You have you know, we're talking They have different strengths that brain, depending on what we are This is what's happening in these models. So as it gets exposed to your op ed painting these these are numbers, really, but they represent synaptic connections So it's not like you can dig And so the courts are going to decide But I will say something very quick, are kind of throwing stones On one thing, they're saying, hey, I don't want my stuff But they're also saying, on a representative sample of of humanity? Right. And or are imagine if it was 1990 before most of us and you said, hey, there's going to be you're going to be able to create content But there's going to be these multibillion that are going to scrape that content They're going to make billions, by surfacing your content to users They're also going to feed some ads. You'd be like, Oh, that's horrible. But what actually, Well, no, you know, now you're paying You are paying, you're trying to search engine optimize Yes, I understand. So I, I don't know how but I do think people should should Do they do they as more and more people the genie is out of the bottle GPT or using copilot on Microsoft to make sense of the world. Do you want your content represented? Is a Well, on that note, that no way I could be Oh, we we encourage either in the lobby here If you want to continue to support virtual and in-person programing possible, please visit Commonwealth Club dot org. And even though I don't have a gavel, Thank you very much and take care. Thank you. Thanks. Out of of.