- It can be a lot of Between the complications, people, health. (Enes coughs) - It can get to a very, I'm really struggling. But I'm happy, and I feel incredibly grateful that my life has granted me and have the people It's beyond luck. I often had a hard time There's something special about it that makes it truly unique. - It's not the cars, the houses, the skyscrapers I've been lucky enough to visit that it's the people that No matter the ups and downs. My back is broken. The hardships and the winds, I always look back on these for what we are able to do. (people laughing) And this is our story. (upbeat ambient music) - Cody. - This is this our first I think it is. - [Enes] It's happening because you abandoned me in Istanbul. - That's right, I did for a little bit. I had to get some suits, but alright. welcome to Dubai. Alpago team is picking us up. Let's get the day going. (car door slams) We're heading to the penthouse that we're gonna be staying I have a bias on this car. I love this car. I want to actually buy one of these. I can't help it. What do you think Cody? - [Cody] I cannot complain. First time in a Maybach. This leg room. Pretty sick. - You can't beat the leg room. - Not at all. Sanj. The leg room is crazy on here. - All right. and everything. - I guess we arrived to our place that we're gonna be staying Looks super cool. Very architectural. Look at all those balconies, by the way. They all cantilever, not a So as a channel, we That's all I'm gonna say. But I'm excited to I knew that we were gonna stay at this really nice penthouse, but it's one thing to see you walk in at 3:30 AM in the morning and take in this incredible penthouse for the first time with your eyes. - Little bit bigger than I anticipated. - Hi. - This looks like a Vegas, This is way too big for us, While you're showing us the rooms, can you also show us the penthouse? (people chuckling) - Wow. - This is crazy! This is one of the best views - Wow. - Okay, off to a great start. - Wow. - There was a snowballs of wows because the entry of the house was amazing and then you see the terrace, it's huge. And then you go, wow. And then you see the view, you go, wow. It was just so surreal, And then just to share it with like your coworkers/friends. It was just an awesome way - This is our master bedroom. - Dude, this is great. - This is lovely. - Oh, there's a hot tub in here? - What? - So this works? - All right, we're getting in this. - We're getting into that. - This is like a private I think this is gonna be like Like I know we stayed at but like the fact that now we can actually like settle in. - Yeah. rather than like jumping - Oh my, the 12 days just hit me. - Yeah. No, it is like. - We are here. - We're 12 days here. - Big thanks to Alpago. I had to point that out. All right, let's go see the other rooms. (upbeat ambient music) - Feeling good. Everybody is ready. First shoot F1rst Motors. It's gonna be a fun day, we're gonna do a walkthrough who's the CEO of the company. The dealership looks great. Place is amazing, we're gonna I don't know, I'm just it's always fun. It's fun for us to break out from our and do something a little bit Obviously every time we do it challenges us to look at a framework of an edit differently. And obviously us having walk through with Ali, then having all these amenities and cars within the dealership is gonna allow us to explore some ideas and that's what I'm looking - Good morning. (car door slams) So the day prior, we got a chance to walk see their current inventory, see some of the cars And it was a good opportunity for us to get a feel of the space because we had some big ideas, interviews and a lot of things - [Ali] Solarbeam. There's only three of and we have two of them. - Really? - All right, you ready? Three, two, one. I'm not impressed with anywhere anymore. It's just like, it's either &quot;Forget about it, Some go for 10 to $12 million. - They're insane. - All right, Enes, we just finished A-Cam. - That's right. How you feel? - I feel great. I mean, it was a lot of fun, like. - That was. when it comes to cars and I just felt like we had a good banter. We talked about a lot of cars, (car engine revving) (car engine revving) Thanks to this guy. Luis was like, &quot;You by these Bugattis and not start 'em?&quot; - Exactly. what we did. - You know, that like weird of just like pure excitement, that's what I felt. That's what I get from cars. The cars were set up It was incredible to see all my childhood dream cars in one place. I mean, it looked fake. - But yeah, we were pretty and now we're giving Ali Maybe I'm giving myself and we're gonna do the So of course we are gonna to the photo booth. It takes two minutes to start this car. It has a 1.6 liter formula one engine. Over a 1000 horsepower. And every 30,000 miles, you need to spend 900 grand Isn't that crazy? - And you're about to hear it start. (car engine revving) (upbeat ambient music) With all due respect, who has an AMG ONE as a backdrop for their interview setting. I'm just saying, I'm just, Look at that. On day two we got a chance to drive the 918 Spyder Weissach edition. $2 million car. We had the entire team in the chase car, which is the Escalade that And before you know it, on the highway and we were - [Cody] Okay come on. Let's hear some engine! (car engine revving) Woo! Lovely. (car engine revving) (car engine revving) The shots I got. - Oh my god. - My leg is asleep. (Cody chuckles) - Good execution. We didn't get a ticket, which is nice. - Now we're at the Driven Cafe. We're probably gonna have some drinks. Probably some coffee. Who knows? - And this is fantastic, I love this car. - This is great. glues onto the road. Like I've never seen a car - It sounds nice. it's also not super loud, which is like, it's really refined. - You're gonna drive on the way back. - Yeah, he is like, - Okay. but let's go get some coffee. (tranquil ambient music) So we arrived to Driven Cafe, which is this really cool and it was a great moment for relax, have some coffee and - Thank you. That's good, that's good. - [Cody] What number coffee is this today? - This? - I think I had three and then this is like yeah, up there. (Cody chuckles) - Yeah, why not? I was prepared for the amount of knowledge Ali was about to drop on us about life. You know, when he's in he's a whole different But when we finally were and I saw him actually really enjoy driving on and him taking the time to take us to one of his favorite local spots. You know, it was a really - And one thing you're guaranteed in life, the only thing that's - Yes. the only thing that's guaranteed. Good times are not guaranteed, Everyone's gonna-, someone's gonna die, someone's gonna pass away, you know, you're gonna face grief. So you know when you are happy in life, enjoy the moment, you know? 'Cause you may not have another And that's what I always say, like make use of the moment you're in always. - 100%. - Once we finished up with our coffees, it was time to go back to the dealership. But even better it was my turn to drive. - What are we doing right now? We're in the trunk of We're gonna shoot our Porsche at night. Yeah, we're gonna get (upbeat ambient music) (car engine revving) - That was insane. 918 is amazing. Getting a chance to is a one of a kind experience. What else you can ask for? Car is violently fast, but then you know I always talk about it, it's like that moment You have the CEO of F1rst Motors with you really happy to be there You're on the passenger your team is in the car shooting and it's one of those moments &quot;How's this all real? How's this all possible?&quot; It was a lot of fun, I'm I know team was just like all smiling when you guys got outta the car. - Yeah. all showing me these shots, and I don't think we could have - [Cody] I completely agree. We did a lot in two days. - We did a lot in two days. Again, life is all about - [Cody] A 100%. (Cody chuckles) we were just in shock a bit because they had so many finishing up details, cleaning things up, staging the property, and all the credit is They always want to make sure that their properties look tiptop, And we were honestly really impressed that we were gonna shoot this - This is way crazier than I anticipated. The scale is huge. - This is my dream garage. - I can't wait to see honestly, to see it from now to how it's gonna turn out I'm super excited. - Going into the property, the first thing you acknowledge SAOTA did a phenomenal job and every single room is You have massive motorized opening up the entire You have water access, you and you see this massive that is right in the center of the home, giving it a really nice grounding feel. Then you go to the floor above, you have all your exquisite bedroom suites designed like a hotel suite, again all opening up to the views. Top floor has an insane rooftop. Floating gym. And then if all that wasn't enough, you go down to the lower level and they have a car gallery, a subterranean car gallery And we were fortunate enough to also fill this garage And when you just take it all you go, &quot;Wow, how is this even real?&quot; (car engine revving) - What are we up to? we're setting up the garage for our shoot. It's crazy that we have all and this garage looks like a CGI. We are all about making is as good as it can be before we shoot. And that's exactly what we're doing. Look at the team right there, getting social media content, making sure the car is parked perfectly. How cool is this carbon fiber Pagani? - [Cody] It's insane. Especially the lights in this garage make those cars look incredible. - Exactly. It's a showroom, and cars do look really - [Cody] Gonna have to see the full tour. - That's right, that's right, stay tuned. (upbeat ambient music) (car engine revving) - You know, the materials that they chose, the engineering that they went through, everything coming to life you just don't see it every So everywhere we travel, we just get to see so many - This is the real behind the scenes. - What's wrong with your back? to keep Enes straight. I don't know, a lot of things Work too much, not rest enough. Don't take care of myself enough. I'll pile up a strong list. So when we were shooting F1rst Motors, I started developing some back pain. It wasn't really bad but it was there. And as we got to the second shoot, my pain started getting worse and worse. And I was at a point where I I didn't wanna slow down because I was having health issues. So I talked to Natalia and luckily they got a chance Also, I wear dress shoes, and I love people that &quot;Oh, if the tour is 30 minutes, it means it took him 30 minutes to do it.&quot; Oh, it doesn't, it takes (Cody chuckles) We wanna make sure everything is perfect. And let's just say these suits are not the most You end up with a stiff back and that's what's about to happen. - [Cody] Well, good thing the - Okay, left one please. - Go up. Go up. - Oh yeah, the sciatic is pulling. - Okay. Hands down the sides. - [Enes] Cody, you're joking me right? - [Cody] No, I need to get the shot. - [Chriropractor] Relax. Does it go below the knee or it stays here in the hamstrings? - No, right now I don't feel the sciatic. It's just certain During this shoot, I was lacking sleep, I was really tired, wearing wearing suits, and between all these elements, and it basically kept - [Therapist] This low back problem is probably sourced by - Yeah. but maybe it might be aggravated. (loud crack) - [Cody] Nice. - Look, regardless of how I feel, we have to get the work done, and that's really exactly what we did. We kept getting our night shots, we got some social media content, and also it was just amazing for us to observe the property at night. The architecture, the all of it coming together, it was a really magical scene. So we really enjoyed - [Cody] Enes? - [Enes] What's up? - [Cody] What are you doing? - Thinking about life. - [Cody] Just contemplating? - Contemplating. Got a lot of thoughts in my mind. - [Cody] This could be like honestly. - House looks insane from this angle, I was just enjoying it. - How are you? A little bit tired. Feeling accomplished. You don't wanna face the house? - [Cody] No, I want We got a little cute skyline in the back. - I see. Well, I'm feeling accomplished. A lot got done tonight. The life we live is so chaotic, sometimes it's nice to take and just remember where what we should be appreciative of. It can be a lot of work to do what we do. And between the complications, politics, people, lives, health, it can get to a very, very bearing point. And, I mean, Cody's behind I'm sick. I'm sure people can pick But I'm happy. I'm stoked to be here, and that my life has granted me and have the people It's beyond luck. And for that I'm forever grateful, I think that's the reason I And I never feel sorry about because I feel like I've and I should live up to it. That's what I have. Day two was really exciting for us because Alpago Properties and F1rst Motors were kind enough to provide us to use in this episode. And I couldn't believe that they did that. A lot was happening, but we just had to stay (car engine revving) What's up Diego? - Oh, what's up? a six and a half million Kind of a surreal moment. (Diego chuckles) All right boys, before We're literally fighting against time. - [Diego] Okay, pick up some speed sir. Yeah. - I got you. - Yeah. (car engine revving) (upbeat ambient music) - [Cody] Yeah. - Okay, never driven a car like this. (car engine revving) is like a nuclear plant behind me. What you guys are hearing is maybe 15%. And I'm not exaggerating, I have a monster in my hands, and I've never felt a refined powered machine like this ever. This is the craziest See ya. (car engine revving) - Take this car from me! I don't wanna drive it anymore. Too much fun. - Enes decided to take us all on like a little joy and I'm telling you there's a clip where the second he puts his foot on the pedal, my sunglasses just fly and it just, it hits the speed (Sandra gasps) I've never experienced The amount of power in that car, definitely not for the weak. - Wow. - [Cody] Just wait until I - Wow. It's like I got rebirthed. You know. First you go fast, then then you like go a little bit more, and it unleashes something. It's like a terminator I really (bleep) like it. It's one of those things I mean, I got a chance to drive a six and a half million dollar car, On Palm Jumeirah with our team and we got a chance to shoot (tranquil ambient music) Everybody knows Dubai cars, homes, properties. But you gotta understand You have people from all working here. So the cuisine is fantastic, and every single night we How long you had this restaurant for? - It'll be two years in April. - Really? - So you're in Dubai Mall, you have the biggest To people out there who want to get into restaurant - Don't. - I like this. - So I would say we have in terms of we have good No one left unhappy so far. - I like the sound of that. Yeah, yeah, yeah (people laughing) What - So the team and I had the opportunity to go to Signor Sassi, which is one of Alpago Group's favorite restaurants in Dubai, and all I can say is it was exceptional. The catering, the food, the service, everything surpassed our Everyone was just in really high spirits and our stomachs were full. Yeah we had to have a dinner with which is a Michelin rated near Burj Al Arab. Yeah Yeah, yeah, yeah (meat sizzling) Yeah - How's dinner? Good Italian food, but more Can't say, life is good in Dubai. We have a shoot tomorrow, a little bit sleepy, but I'm ready for it. On top of all these meals, and supporting us at the penthouse, which was really nice. Actually it made the because every time we arrived to home, we had our food ready, they were preparing every single morning. Honestly, they made the entire trip and enjoyable for all of us. I can't thank Lorraine, for making our trip so and so much more enjoyable for us. They were definitely a and we really enjoyed - Perfect. - Thank you so much. - Thank you. - You guys look amazing. - Our third shoot was on Bulgari Island. This property is one of in the entire city listed Babak Jafari with B1 Properties. And the whole setting is so unique. You have an amazing world class resort with a marina on a private manmade island with incredible amenities. And the home itself sits on where you have the entire It was a one of a kind shoot. So we are back at the Bulgari mansion. We were here a few days ago and the project was still but now they're kind of cleaning it up and putting final touches, and we are excited to shoot this property. Honestly it looks insane. On top of that because they're still eh. Lemme do this one more time. - Yep. - I know, I feel that. Besides the back pain, I It started at our first shoot, got a little bit worse and by the time we got I was pretty much sick. So I knew this shoot was But regardless, we have and that's exactly what we did. All right, we're back So Cody, Erman, Diego, making sure they get as which details to focus on, but at the same time, they're So we have to work around I'm going room by room, writing my notes, getting a feel of the property and understanding what So it's a bit of an insight I know when we turn that camera on and you see him on A-cam wearing It's all smooth. But in reality, a lot of calculation, a lot of thinking goes into We want to do as good We thrive from that. And when you have an it makes it easy. We asked for a healthy lunch. And we have been granted I've been actually quietly walking around to pick which one I want to eat. There's like six different I don't want to be rude But what do you think? - [Cody] What are you going with first? Let's go. - Okay, so like we have some chicken, we got burgers, we got salads, we got salmon, we have hot dogs. I'm just really hungry. I'm really hungry. - Why do they get so much food? Well, it's not just for us, like for Babak and them. All right, let's go, let's go. Obviously lunch is really important 'cause a lot of times we so we end up having really late dinners. And once again, Babak and to provide us an amazing gave us the energy that we need to push through the entire day. We want our tours to and we wanna showcase these homes in their authentic setting. And the homeowner here was kind and we only asked for a few. And let's just say they brought $135 million on the Bulgari And when you look at each it is curated to perfection. Money was not an object when it comes to designing We knew that we had a lot of spaces, a lot of details to cover, but we were ready for the challenge. Tell people what you texted me just now. - So we were outside getting &quot;You have to come outside, this is the prettiest sunset And I think the view speaks for itself. - It sure does. This looks like a like digital drawing. This looks unreal. - This is like what Microsoft - And I don't know what it is, I feel like I can just touch and pick and relocate each one of the buildings. This is super cool. Like it's crazy through making videos, which is all we focused and like lends us, the now prayer is happening. This is amazing. We're blessed. When I say this, I really, really mean it, I think we have the During these shoots, we were so focused on our work that it's hard for us to just slow down and take in what's around us. But at the end of day one, it was one of those moments where we felt really accomplished, but then you just look &quot;How did I end up here?&quot; Look at the view, look at the city, look at the house behind me. It was exciting, it was fun, it puts a smile on my And that was pretty much it for day one, we got the shots that we and we were ready to go back home, rest up and get ready for day two. Day two was the most because this is when we were gonna do the Everything was going Cody and I woke up really sick. - [Cody] Cool. I think we're good, Hmm. (coughing) Man, the A-team is just falling apart. There's a little bit of - Yeah. Spec's are good. I (beep) with that. (coughing) (Enes coughing) And my direction was what? With the Taj Mahal? Yeah. I was thinking, I was like, okay, if I had a point to jump in. - Isn't this crazy? Yeah. - Yep. - It's absolutely beautiful. (beep) - No, no, no, like what a contrast. (coughing) Wow dude, if people knew the condition that we were in making this to work. - [Cody] I wanna move around - Yeah, yeah, my bad. I threw you under the bus. - You good? - We're halfway there. - This is the seating And Cody, I need you to - [Cody] I'm sorry. Ah. (Enes laughing) Okay. Let's see. (loud beep) - [Cody] No, you're good. (upbeat ambient music) - Okay. The details and the craftsmanship that are just so beautiful. Look at all the stitching, how this. - [Cody] Hold on. Hold on a second. (Enes coughing) Okay. Let's just say it was a but we pushed through it, we got it done and before we knew it, it (tranquil ambient music) - Are you emotional right now? I'm tired. - Yeah. let's just say I'm pushing my body's potential to pull this trip off. Mentally I'm good. Physically I'm struggling, but I'm happy that we got this shoot done. Team is on the back. They're just enjoying, you know, getting their last bit of shots. Cody and I are just doing our It has been good. - I can't complain about this property. Looking at this view and just seeing and and this country has accomplished, And the Bulgari brand the level of detail and craftsmanship that how it's gonna set a new This view in the skyline, I don't know if it gets And I say this in the context of for us being able to live these moments and be part of it and participate in it, these are the memories that And it's super cool. I'm gonna look back to this moment, I'm gonna watch this video, all these things that I've to make this video possible. And that's what makes our There's story to it, there's love to it, there's and there's Dubai. - [Cody] But now let's be real, how are you actually feeling? - My back is broken. (Cody laughing) - Let's go. Look at this energy. - I have a great idea. - Let's go. we're gonna come from the cut. - We want. Cody, I say pack, help the boys, rest. - [Cody] I'm down for that. - You got your thumbnails at night? - [Cody] Thumbnails at night done. - Okay. Let's go to bed. - I have stuff to shoot. I'll see you guys later. (upbeat ambient music) - [Cody] Last day. How are we feeling? - I'm struggling. I'm really struggling. - It's funny, the last day of the shoot, everyone is actually in high spirits, I'm walking outta my Everyone's just laughing and I see a pair of dad shoes on the couch and Enes is just sprawled out in pain, and this surpassed Villa 23, this was the worst - Well, (Enes coughing) People cannot see why and get my health back, This morning I woke up at because I'm also sick, and the pain was so hard, I basically fell to the ground. I couldn't put my socks on because I cannot bend my But I got a shower, so I'm at least clean. So that's exciting. - Yay. So doctor is coming, I literally told him to buy and I told him, &quot;You need to I don't care what happens afterwards.&quot; I have to shoot this penthouse. So our last day in Dubai was actually the day that we Again, everything was going but we had a one really, really big issue, my back pain got to a such a bad point where I was literally not able to walk. I'm not even joking, I Natalia and Ozan got the and I'll be lying if I say but he worked his magic. He got me walking, and at the end of the Cody, how are you? - [Cody] I'm better than you are. - Cool, you certainly are. You look like it at least. - [Cody] I feel better. - Okay, now it's gonna be 18+. Okay. - Oh yeah. He can blur it. - There we go. (Cody chuckles) - The amount of painkillers medicine I took in the last 10 days, I feel like I'm constantly high. Oh. Oh. That hurt. Oh. Dude, it's like it's Oh. - [Cody] Is this a reality check? - You know, it's not because, I knew this reality, I just kind of had ignored it. Exactly. It wasn't like I wasn't aware of it. I just was in a place in life It's not that I wasn't aware. I've been talking about wanting - [Cody] He's putting the Theragun to the needles themselves. - Really? Man, I could see myself on this lens. - Yeah. - [Cody] It's pretty rough. - Pretty rough. he is taking the needles out. - [Cody] We got Erman shooting B-rolls. (Enes coughing) The duality of man. - From the first day we to the last day we stayed there, I kept liking and appreciating the space more and more each day because you have so much but the entire penthouse you have Palm Jumeirah below you, amazing amenities within So we had access to the sea, we had beautiful interior square footage, nicely furnished as well. And it was fun to get We also had a lot of so it made our tour that much better. - [Cody] Okay, last dinner. - Come to Dubai, eat some burgers. - Enes, you're feeling - Ooh. - This morning, I genuinely doubted the fact that I was gonna be able to walk. That's how much pain I was in. Thankfully our doctor, he's amazing. He certainly fixed me. I still have pain, that's why I'm sitting But I feel very accomplished the fact that we finished the tour, we did the thing that we promised. - [Cody] We did. - Penthouse tour, now we're gonna enjoy this meal. We have burgers, we have fries. Life's good. It's our last few hours here Pull the box down. You can just leave it there. - Go ahead. I wanna say thank you It's been a lot of work shooting every single We've been pretty much So I really, really appreciate This is what we get to do for a living. And the fact that we eat the same meals and do what we do every and it's even a bigger I can personally share this So thank you so much for being here and hopefully with you many - Cheers. (people laughing) - So for me, I actually have no lows. This is how this trip went Alpago, Ali, Ridvan, Murat, Babak, these are some incredible individuals. Having this channel, doing what we do and getting the opportunity is the biggest reward. No money, no success, no credibility comes even close to and being able to call them friends and know that like they hand you a six and a half million Like, that's so rare. I'll get you guys Bugattis. You know, I know the they're giving it out of business. They're not giving it and being happy, the fact that like I get to drive one. That's what Alpago does, and that's priceless. It's been a good trip. It's been a good trip. A lot of ups and downs, a lot of pains, but we push it through - Nice. - Always, a great time. - Yes. - Enes brother, thank you so much. I appreciate everything bro. See you soon. - Thank you. (car door slams) - [Cody] Back in the Maybach. - Oh, that was a douche. sitting way back. - Well, we're going back home. - That's it. It's hitting now. It was great. It's great, lovely people. It's like we have another family in Dubai. A family we never know we had. (car door slams) - I joined the team in November of 2022. And when I tell you at least once a week, I have heard about Alpago and how crazy Dubai is. I was like, &quot;Okay, it It really is that great. If I had to put it in one Like you leave Dubai wanting to come back and do better and be better and bigger. And it just fuels my and everything we're able to accomplish, and I can't wait till we get to go back. - Every time we go to Dubai, it's a life changing experience. But this time was no different. - Dubai definitely and between the cars, the amazing homes and the incredible hospitality I mean, it's a trip to remember. - Now it's not easy for us and having to one up our We manage to do it, it but it's easy for us to do because we love the people that we get to work with in this city. Alpago Properties, First and Alpago Group in general have been an amazing and we've been honored showcase their talent with the videos that we do. So this city has a really has a really special place that we get to hang out with in this city. And let's just say this was a long trip. There were days that weren't easy, there were days that we and just enjoy what's in front of us, and really take this entire experience in. And once again, I wanna give F1rst Motors, B1 Properties, for supporting us in I feel like when you look at our channel, when you look at our videos, they're very much about And we tend to shy away telling to the world, what what it takes to shoot and This was a bit of an experimental video, it was a different take but I hope you guys enjoyed it. And as always, we'll see - I have a lot there. - [Cody] All right, let's cut. Good? There you go. - [Cody] Good job. I don't know, how did it look cool? - Aw. - That so cute. - That's a wrap. Thanks guys.