Few things inspire more serious debate in is the absolute best. We've come to blows and been hospitalized that very topic. Therefore, in a small gesture toward bringing we have decided to rank every video game console, How will we be doing that? I'm glad you asked, because it gives us hat onto somebody's head. We will be evaluating each console on a number library, its lifetime sales, its price at supported. We think those are fair ways to compare systems there. We will also be awarding consoles bonus points an average of 90% or higher on Metacritic, of consoles that were among the most important Which ones were they? Well, they're the ones you're thinking And, of course, there are a few caveats. For starters, we are not including handhelds, Stay tuned. Secondly, we are not counting revised versions the NES top-loader or the PS4 Pro - but add-ons had their own unique game libraries. Thirdly, and perhaps most importantly, industry two console generations. We tried our best to be accurate, but in many Also, in that spirit, people are still buying so be aware that sales figures are never final you watch this video. Let's rank 'em. I'm Peter and I'm Ben from TripleJump, from worst to best. #92: First Generation (1972) of video game consoles as a single entry on Why? Well, I think we can all agree 92 entries more than 680 game consoles released in the around five new consoles released every month, It was without question an era of quantity system was a clone of Atari's Pong. Maybe we could call them Pong-soles? No offense to Pong, as it remains a profoundly we need almost 700 knockoffs? I'll leave it to you to decide. Actually, I won't; the answer is no. Aside from Pong, only two consoles in this of their own. One of them is the Magnavox Odyssey, which and other physical goodies to introduce more And the other is the Color TV-Game 6, which variations on Pong, but is notable for being called Nintendo. I wonder whatever happened to them. #91: APF Imagination Machine (1979) manufacturers began to realize they could...you Not every experiment was successful - far see some ambition. The APF Imagination Machine might have been The console's main gimmick was that it came a way for consumers to write and execute their others had written. However, the Imagination Machine was not successful. It received a number of glowing writeups at but consumers were not convinced. We can't blame them; there were only 15 and it had a launch price of $700 - the it as the most expensive console on this list. The Imagination Machine was designed to compete won't hear about that system until much successfully it did that. #90: Worlds of Wonder Action Max (1987) We all love games. But I think it's safe to say we love those The Action Max, sadly, didn't get that memo. See, the problem is spelled out nicely by kinds of entertainment. We watch movies, and we play games. They are distinct experiences by their very to bring them together. The entire Action Max library - five whole experiences. Some targets float across the screen, you it. Nothing happens, though a score counter on Hit or miss, the footage always plays out So I guess they never miss, huh ? try turning video cassettes into games, but So... congratulations? #89: Connor VideoSmarts (1986) console, this time with a focus on edutainment. It would be misleading to say it was a better for half the price and had a game library giving it the edge. Also, there's the fact that a console like The video cassettes are no more interactive that's okay; kids can learn plenty from in their hands. We think it's far more likely some kid learned one. The VideoSmarts was originally released with logo rotated 180 degrees. A later version - rebranded the ComputerSmarts cassettes themselves still didn't give a #88: Bandai Super Vision 8000 (1979) into every living room, toy company Bandai The Super Vision 8000 even launched at almost the equivalent of almost $850 today. Final sales numbers are not available, but not take off the way Bandai had hoped it would. It did remain on shelves for around three were ever released for it goes a long way those shelves. Bandai also released a few consoles during later consoles, such as this one, eventually The company found more success developing the failure of the Super Vision 8000 was the #87: BBC Bridge Companion (1985) consoles, and then there are extraordinarily That's where the BBC Bridge Companion fits, cartridges and everything - that taught You know. Bridge. The card game Bridge. With that in mind, it's actually quite impressive the system. The fact that the console was only on the focus might cause you to suspect that the intend for the system to have a future, and one-off novelty. The Bridge Companion's game titles, though, of them were marked as being the first in Someone at the BBC obviously planned for the of future, and I'm sure you will all agree didn't. #86: Takara Video Challenger (1987) cassettes. That's sure to be good. Yes, once again, you watch videos on your so inclined. There's not much more to say about the Video trivia that sets it apart. For one, the included gun didn't just deal take damage as well, with players needing them. For another, there was cross-promotion with viewers to fire at Decepticons in the opening That's a sort of fun feature, we will admit. Oh, and, also, with only seven games released advertisements for the Video Challenger ended incompatible games. Hey, if you can't sell a console on its #85: Gakken Compact Vision TV Boy (1983) at all about the Gakken Compact Vision TV It was a Japanese exclusive console that spent with significant consumer apathy and enjoyed It never got the chance to become a Gakken It is one of the rarest consoles on this list, by no means be tempted to find one. The console released in the third generation, of the second, making it obsolete before it It also had a very strange control system There was a handle on the left with a Start designed to be gripped from above. The joystick had its Fire button positioned you were right-handed. For lefties, the Gakken Compact Vision TV They should consider themselves lucky, really. #84: Mattel HyperScan (2006) is why we're taking cost into account on As much as we'd love to buy absolutely every also have to pay for food and shelter. Pff, Ridiculous. It says a lot, then, that a console that sold games that cost a mere $20 could barely shift In fact, toward the end of its life, the Mattel to $2, and still nobody bought it. Not that this flimsy plastic card-reader masquerading The HyperScan struggled to even load its own up the games was actually more fun than playing Only five games were released for the system, #83: Unisonic Champion 2711 (1978) on this list that failed right out of the Video Game History Museum singles this one The Unisonic Champion 2711 isn't just primitive 1978 as well. If you think we are exaggerating, well, first And secondly, we're not. The system was only able to display playing In fact, it could only display uppercase white And the background had to be green . Needless games that could be developed for the system. 21 titles were released, all of them either The system sold for the positively idiotic off the shelves in under one year. Unisonic attempted to sell it in Japan - rebranded there. Thank God. #82: Casio PV-1000 (1983) of being too little, too late. It is technically part of the third generation are far more in line with the second generation. Now, graphics and sound aren't everything...but well, and they're not the only two. There were just 13 games released for the but two of them never made it to stores -- and weeks, never leaving Japan. It's likely that Casio realized quickly After all, this console released a mere three Sega's SG-1000, and Nintendo's Famicom. Those two companies were pushing the industry more than an unwelcome step back. #81: LJN Video Art (1985) immediately to mind...none of which we can monetized. LJN infamously published mountains of terrible Also, LJN made a console. And it's exactly as good as you suspect The Video Art is more of a creativity tool actually makes it worse. Its artistically inclined target audience and imprecise controller, and the tools are screen is about as complex a technique as Nine games - or, more commonly, digital before it was discontinued around two years Once again, reliable sales figures don't people you meet if they owned an LJN Video #80: Bandai Terebikko (1988) kinds of consoles: it's educational, and Actually, on further reflection, those things My mistake. As might be expected, no official sales figures to have enjoyed a decent amount of success shelves for more than five years. That's an impressive lifespan for a console It also did well enough to be exported to Each of the games featured long, non-interactive Not very exciting stuff, but the games featured and Dragon Ball Z... to even Super Mario . Kids time with these icons, but something tells remember. #79: VTech Socrates (1988) have to admit the VTech Socrates is the absolute a Greek philosopher. Actually, we should give the Socrates its It was an educational console, which means set of standards, but its games still looked It also relied on a genuinely impressive early robot offered guidance and instructions. What's more, the system used a wireless The Socrates was even priced well, with a Only nine games were available and, as near a year or two after release. That's unfortunate, but the Socrates at where it was rebranded "Professor Weiss-Alles." That translates to "Professor Knows-Everything," #78: View-Master Interactive Vision (1988) a familiar name. It was - and still is - a toy allowing in the form of film embedded into cardboard We'd like to say that View-Master's experiment but the fact is...this console is genuinely The View-Master Interactive Vision is easily A low bar to clear, we admit, but View-Master The company worked out how to make prerecorded The videos ran as normal, with the interactive layer. That's a clever solution. Sadly however, the system saw almost no support. There were six games starring Jim Henson's all else. The Interactive Vision left the market in the best with the technology it had. #77: VTech V.Flash (2006) again in the seventh generation with the V.Flash. It would be difficult to suggest that the for the time, as they were far more in line on the market in 2006, but they were certainly edutainment that actually looks...well...entertaining. The price was fair, going for the equivalent children actually liked, including Spider-Man, It was certainly a more appealing purchase on this list, but we know that isn't saying One interesting fact is that the games used quite easy. This would have been an issue for VTech had #76: APF-MP1000 (1978) also-ran. Released with little to nothing that set it the system floundered, understandably unable Only 13 games were ever released for the system, Patrol , which was built into the console And, hey, since there's not much to say misconception: Many sources online claim that system. Well, they were . They were hardwired to the So ends TripleJump's lesson for the day. APF did attempt to salvage the MP1000 by releasing was about three times the cost of the console. It allowed consumers to use the MP1000 to You know...things that really get gamers excited. #75: Capcom Power System Changer (1994) developers, and it's no surprise that one market. In fact, Capcom was in a great position to hit franchises under its belt. What's more, Capcom's games were popular Why not bring their own arcade hardware into It was a concept that couldn't fail... and But why? It's honestly difficult to say, though cost Perhaps surprisingly, the console itself was were expensive, costing around $300 each. Considering each one was essentially an arcade but it was also well out of many gamers' The Power System Changer was discontinued never left Japan. #74: Funtech Super A'Can (1995) Taiwan, and the box art seems to suggest Funtech for the much-more-popular Super Famicom . The oddly, it wasn't one. It was a 16-bit system that actually looked Genuine effort went into building the Super and specs that were absolutely on par with As much as Funtech clearly tried in some areas, The company developed its own games, without in a total of 12 titles before they pulled year. #73: VM Labs Nuon (2000) and learning nothing from the VHS-based consoles to fail at a dedicated DVD game console. In fairness to VM Labs, DVDs were far more never been advanced enough to respond immediately The Nuon failed, in spite of the fact that RAD. It sold an estimated 25,000 units in total, Of course, it's possible people bought it films as... Bedazzled, Dr. Doolittle 2, Buckaroo Banzai Planet of the Apes (the crap Mark Wahlberg Seriously, why did anybody buy this? #72: Nintendo 64DD (1999) that sold less than the Nuon? The Nintendo 64DD is one of the company's units. And that was in Japan, where I think it's they love their own mothers. Citation needed. The 64DD was Nintendo's attempt to keep landscape. The PlayStation had redefined gaming, and into the video game...erm...game, Nintendo The 64DD was intended to soup the console but only nine titles were ever released for programs...hardly the most compelling way When Japanese gamers rejected the 64DD, Nintendo We've been grateful to them ever since. #71: Nichibutsu My Vision (1983) from office equipment to yachts, and they The new thing they tried in 1983 was releasing history. The Nichibutsu My Vision is a console designed despite the biggest draw of video games being For the insane equivalent of more than $450 playing a whopping six games in total, including Gozen Beetle. The real kicker, though, was the fact that version of these games, as if you wanted to have to purchase their own console and plug $900 for a round of Gozen Beetle? What a steal. Literally. This is theft and should be illegal. #70: Atari Jaguar CD (1995) well, but compared to the Atari Jaguar CD, Released as an add-on with its own library start. It was announced before the release of the it didn't release until two years after it was a bit crap. Whatever the holdup was, it can't have had The version that made it to market was prone it's notoriously difficult to get hold of Only 11 games were released for the system, today, as you needed a Jaguar to use it. The console that is, not the animal. Final sales figures are not available, but meaning, at most, only 20,000 children were #69 [NICE]: VTech CreatiVision (1981) well in the market, likely thanks to its high - and small library of games; only 18 were of better games on other systems, including But the lack of success was not for want of The Japan-based VTech blasted the CreatiVision from the U.S., as the console was discontinued As a result, you will find functionally identical different names, such as the FunVision Computer Educat 2002, and - we couldn't make this . in 1981, we'd all be lining up for the midnight #68: Philips Videopac+ G7400 (1983) a bell? Probably not, but the failure of this particular than one year - actually marks the end of have launched in America under a very different The console flopped hard enough in Europe the most classic names in gaming was finished. The Odyssey 3 - it really is much easier It had decent enough graphical and sound capabilities were planned, including a speech synthesizer stunning games like that year's Dragon's Would this system have put the Odyssey back We'll never know; its brisk failure in Europe dead in its tracks. That's a shame; as this could have been #67: Bally Astrocade (1978) slot machines, but they tried their hands Released in 1978, this is one of the earliest I'm sure you'll agree it looks impressive Perhaps it was even a little too impressive, than $1,100 when adjusted for inflation. It was more expensive than the recently released itself as the must-have console of the generation. The Astrocade did not stand apart from the and consumers passed it by. Only 28 games were ever made for the system, Bally gave the Astrocade five years to find At least they can be certain they didn't #66: Konami Picno (1993) games? Of course you do. Remember when Konami used to make great game Of course you don't, because that never In fact, few people seem to remember that little information on the internet about the What we do know is that it had a tablet interface, a year later. Oh, and one of the people who worked on the 16 games and drawing programs were released sure about that - and it cost the equivalent The Picno is a rare and strange footnote, number of books about console history - including list - don't even mention it. Which means we've probably talked about #65: Apple Bandai Pippin (1996) of electronics. Phones, music players, computers...they've So, hey, why not a game console? Enter the Apple Bandai Pippin, a system nobody It cost the equivalent of nearly $1,000 today, had a grand total of 18 titles available for That's not the best part, though. Would you like to know the best part? Okay. When the Pippin arrived in Europe, only two It gets even better though: One of those was , and the other was Histoires d'Urologie , a problems. We really wish we were making this up. Even collectors shouldn't bother tracking If you do, urine for a bad time. GOT EEM. #64: NEC SuperGrafx/ PC EngineSuperGrafx if NEC's TurboGrafx-16 sold nearly six million the company understandably wanted a presence The best way to do that? Take their popular console and make it better. The worst way to do that? Well...the SuperGrafx was the worst way to In fairness, NEC's attempt at a souped-up but it was also rushed to shelves, resulting to really justify another purchase. There's also the fact that the TurboGrafx-16 years at this point, meaning that those who when only six games in total were made for Interesting take on the definition of "upgrade," The SuperGrafx sold a mere 75,000 units in NEC showed mercy to the rest of the world any farther. #63: Commodore 64 Games System (1990) on their hands sit around wondering how to be exactly what Commodore was up to in 1990. Their Commodore 64 home computer - introduced We can't blame Commodore for wanting to blame them for just about everything else. The Commodore 64 Games System was little more its technology was already eight years out Also, it lacked keyboard support. Thanks to this, the massive computer game the Commodore 64 Games System couldn't be Nice. That would be fine if the console had a halfway were released for it. One of them was a Terminator 2 game that required keyboard , rendering it literally unplayable. It's a sad state of affairs when that's #62: GCE Vectrex (1982) General Computer Electronics but sold by either region - is actually quite fascinating, Critics loved it, and the Vectrex has an appreciative homebrew software just to keep those sweet So...what's it doing so low on this list? Well, final sales figures aren't available, Milton Bradley "tens of millions of dollars." While this fact has not been verified, the two years, with just 29 games in its library. That hardly sounds like it was a financial We'd be lying, though, if we said the Vectrex Had it been embraced by more customers, its led to a much different gaming landscape today. As it stands, however, it's going to remain its spell...and probably not many others. #61: Amstrad GX4000 (1990) Amstrad made a dedicated game console. At most, 15,000 of you did, as that's the It existed under the slogan, "Bring the got to love that non-copyright-infringing words, considering the system only had around not dare show their faces in an arcade. For an 8-bit system, the games on the GX4000 to focus instead on the fact that they weren't Controls were stiff, games were uninspired, the system. It also didn't help that Amstrad released theirs and two years after Sega introduced System designer Cliff Lawson blames the GX4000's able to compete with those two companies in We therefore challenge Cliff Lawson to actually straight face. #60: Bandai Playdia (1994) no means the last one on this list - the ended up never leaving Japan. Sales figures are not available, but Bandai the Playdia's first year. The fact that it was quickly discontinued The system's main competition came from in a desperate attempt to sell it to someone, through its life to focus instead on content and pop idols-related media. The gambit might have helped a bit, but mainly Parents wouldn't buy an educational console teenagers could get their...erm...idolfix #59: SSD COMPANY LIMITED XavixPORT (2004) the console is yelling at you for not buying Sales figures are not available, but only it was far from successful. As you might guess from one of the words that a sports-based console. It featured wireless controllers shaped like bats, allowing games to be played with a mixture Sounds like an obvious Wii knock off, right? Well, the XavixPORT released in 2004, and We truly doubt the XavixPORT inspired Nintendo of the XavixPORT - but it's a fascinating Speaking of Nintendo, the XavixPORT was designed the NES, but we can safely assume they weren't #58: Emerson Arcadia-2001 (1982) We can say that for a fact. It was marketed under at least 35 different We can say that for a fact as well. Beyond that, not much is known. As IGN put it, "It was born, it died, and It received little attention when it launched a mere 18 months later, with literally no Emerson didn't have any unique or exciting a fairly basic, run-of-the-mill console that Actually, that's not entirely true. Emerson did market the Arcadia-2001 as a portable And, in the sense that anything that can be that was true. However, the fact that you'd also have to supply - not very common in 1982 - made #57: Casio Loopy (1995) That's probably not mind-blowing to you, to believe that young girls enjoyed the likes And so, they behaved as though young ladies simply had no basis in reality. Enter the Casio Loopy, also known as "My mention only because that's hilarious. Marketed exclusively toward little girls, printer. Girls could either design their own images we're absolutely positive none of them looked with any jealousy whatsoever. Only 10 games were made, all of which had the only three things girls ever did or ever I think I speak for everyone at TripleJump stickers instead of unlocking Trophies, I'm #56: ZAPiT Game Wave Family Entertainment Just about every console has its share of based on familiar formats. The ZAPiT Game Wave Family Entertainment System the concept, however. It was essentially a barely more powerful each with their own remote controls, to play It launched at a low price - around $130 a console, but it was a pretty unnecessary By 2005 there was no shortage of options in have much more variety. Then again, no other console had Veggie Tales: Family Tournament , so...swings and roundabouts? In total, this console sold about 70,000 units Not all that impressive, but it somehow remained - four years later. We'll give them points for tenacity, at #55: Tandy Memorex Visual Information System Ideally, you want to get your system in front You want people to see it on shelves wherever You want it to appear in their advertisements. So why did Tandy sell the Memorex VIS exclusively Probably because they knew it was a bit crap. In 2015, ex-Radio Shack store manager Joe system's failure. Fuzzy graphics, underwhelming "games" slideshows - and the fact that parents could just a few nails in the coffin of the Memorex Duncan even said his colleagues joked that to sell." To the system's credit, 70 titles were available. To its much larger discredit however, it sold third-worst-selling console on this list. #54: Interton Video Computer 4000 (1978) a presence in Germany, though versions of different names were released elsewhere. The funny thing about the redesigns is that on each, so that even though each version games from the other versions, they wouldn't Exactly how many VC 4000s were sold is impossible units come up for auction often enough that 40 titles were released for the system, all today's standards, but they were more or and enjoyed a lifespan of about five years. It sold for the equivalent of around $575 but the VC 4000's biggest issue is that the competition. #53: Daewoo Zemmix (1985) set of Scrabble tiles, but the Daewoo Zemmix to South Korea. Well, it was technically a series of consoles get into that as this entry is going to be Regarding the number of games available for figures exist. Regarding the sales of any particular Zemmix Regarding the years during which each model As such we were at a bit of a loss in terms What we do know is that Zemmix units were we think speaks to at least moderate success. Also, the Zemmix was compatible with games so it had plenty of titles available at launch. Beyond that, though...yay Zemmix? #52: Epoch Cassette Vision (1981) be a more economical gaming console, costing - the equivalent of less than $170 today That's the only way in which the Cassette The games were not particularly advanced for The controls were built right into the console And while Epoch had its eye on expanding to kept it from ever leaving Japan. At one point Epoch doubled down on the appeal Vision Jr. for around a third of the price. It didn't do much to generate interest, discontinued with only around 400,000 units #51: VTech V.Smile (2004) craze a number of times, bless 'em. In 2004 they launched a number of console including voice input and motion controls. Those are two clever ways to engage children price was certainly right; with units costing They even had a decent selection of licensed including Batman, Bob the Builder, Blue's begin with B. but considering the fact that the company console's successor - only two years later, VTech's expectations. Still, it was not a bad system and, as we've you could do much worse. #50: RCA Studio II (1977) but the RCA Studio II actually comes with Joseph Weisbecker, an engineer working for computer designs and console ideas. He was unable to convince his management at released the Studio II using a CPU designed The problem was that by the time they agreed, Had RCA listened to Weisbecker sooner, the Instead, the product Weisbecker fought so for his company. It was discontinued just after Christmas 1977, There is a positive Studio II fact, however. The system featured TV Schoolhouse I, Speedway, daughter, Joyce. This makes her the first professional female #49: Tomy Pyuuta Jr. (1983) called the Pyuuta. Depending on where you grew up, you might or the Grandstand Tutor, but you probably ever talked about it. In 1983, Tomy scaled back that computer and the Pyuuta Jr. There was no real reason to do this aside on shelves and Tomy thought, "We'd like The library consisted - as far as we can for the Pyuuta, and there were only 26 of The Pyuuta Jr. did nothing to introduce Tomy in fact this console and its computer-system 140,000 units. #48: Zeebo (2009) the manufacturer and the console we should already said Zeebo more times in this sentence Intended to give Brazil its own foothold in an inexpensive console that would allow gamers import costs. As a result, the Zeebo relied on digital content thwarting piracy. Eventually the Zeebo expanded to other markets, developers including Namco, Capcom, and Activision. Its library of around 60 games mainly consisted as well. All told the Zeebo only sold 40,000 units, designed for developing markets, that's #47: Pioneer LaserActive (1993) consoles that intended to bring reference living room. Think the CD-i, for example. In terms of sheer hardware, the LaserActive price - almost $1,800 today - and limited be classified as "games" - held it back It was outsold by the CD-i at a rate of around crap. Here's the truly weird bit, though: With LaserActive was able to legally play Mega That immediately gave customers access to titles. Probably should have advertised that feature a really good one. #46: iQue Player (2003) as their way of fighting video game addiction. Just leave it to Nintendo to find a solution still made their games available to Chinese Nintendo worked with tech entrepreneur Dr. that wasn't a console. For just over the equivalent of $100 today, a plug-and-play Nintendo 64, minus the branding. Games were downloadable either at dedicated the latter making iQue Player the home of service as we know it. Only 14 games were released for the system, Mario 64, Animal Crossing, and Ocarina of Impressively, though games were only released online until 2018. For Westerners, the iQue Player is an interesting For the Chinese market, though, it was a crucial #45: Fairchild Channel F (1976) about with nostalgic reverence, but it was It was the first console to use a microprocessor, concept of programmable ROM cartridges to It also had a pretty interesting take on a what we'd now call a thumbstick. It had eight-direction controls and could additional inputs. Pretty innovative stuff all around. Sadly, the Channel F didn't catch on. Over the course of its seven years on the lagging behind the more popular systems of This wasn't helped by the fact that fewer and only a few of them were seen as worth Ultimately, Atari and Fairchild were duking who the winner ultimately was. #44: Commodore CDTV (1991) provide more than video games, the Commodore for an audience that, quite frankly, wasn't It even sold at the same astronomical price It's no surprise companies such as Commodore be popular. They thought people would love a singular play games, read the news, and keep in touch In fact, that singular device is indeed popular cumbersome, beastly machine that sits in your you wish you could have back. The CDTV barely sold at all, moving fewer Commodore gave it more than a year on shelves but the interest just wasn't there. #43: Atari XEGS (1987) once and for all, that they had no idea how "XEGS" evidently stands for XE Video Game What does that "XE" stand for? Who knows. Where did the V that starts the word "video" Who knows. Are we going to stay up all night worrying You know. The XEGS was an interesting system in that The less-expensive console version was marketed was marketed toward families who might have But it just wouldn't be an Atari product it. In this case, it was the fact that the XEGS different Atari consoles: the 2600 and the had larger game libraries. The XEGS was discontinued with only 130,000 #42: Epoch Super Cassette Vision (1984) Probably not. We only talked about it 10 entries ago and Well, Epoch released a successor to the system, They should be proud of the fact that they about six years but...that's probably all They did at least triple the size of the previous thing until you do the maths and realize that The really interesting thing about the Super feminine variant : The Super Lady Cassette to look like a makeup kit. It even came with a game called Milky Princess, make fun of it today. Honestly, we're just relieved that this Loopy. Otherwise Sony would be out there marketing Or PladyStations? #41: Atari Jaguar (1993) but a Jaguar. Despite being the undisputed king of the second spent each subsequent generation not just at all. Their final standalone attempt came in 1993 as the very first 64-bit system, demonstrating bits, or that they hoped nobody else did. Only 50 games were released, reportedly due to develop for. This led to many developers simply not bothering. Atari also seemed to be trying to set the , which made the system even less appealing. All told, the Jaguar shifted south of a quarter by the releases of the much-more-popular Sega #40: NEC PC-FX (1994) electronics company NEC hoped to hold on to the 32-bit PC-FX. The fact that you've heard of the TurboGrafx-16 exactly how well that went for them. The PC-FX was underpowered compared to other graphics chip...a big problem in the generation What really sunk the console, though, was was still popular in Japan. Fans were reluctant to shell out for the expensive the one they already owned was treating them But hey, that's just Japan, right? Surely the PC-FX would fare better in other And it might have, except that NEC didn't Whoops! #39: Atari 5200 (1982) massively successful 2600 makes sense, but For starters, it's barely an incremental was on par with the 2600. In fact, both systems are so similar, they Despite this, the enormous library of the If that were simply not possible, technologically Atari saved backwards compatibility for a The 5200 didn't get many of its own games up - Atari kept its game development focused The console understandably sold about one-thirtieth And, trust me, that was for the best. #38: Sega 32X (1994) to prolong the life of its Mega Drive/Genesis. Quite why they'd want to do that in late The Sega Saturn released the very next day it would soon come to the West. 40 games were released for the 32X, most of increased power of the hardware. In fact, very few 32X games stood out as must-haves. Knuckles' Chaotix...maybe? A port of Doom missing a third of the content? A shoot-em-up starring a hummingbird ? Please, Ultimately the 32X moved 800,000 units, which you learn that many of those ended up being toward the end - just to move unsold stock. Oh well. It could have been worse, we suppose. The 32X could have come packed in anthrax. #37: Amiga CD32 (1993) list, the Amiga CD32 actually had a fairly all CD-ROM sales that Christmas. Critics at the time were impressed by the seemed willing to give it a chance. So, what went wrong? Well, debt. Amiga's parent company, Commodore, owed and paying it meant they couldn't afford understandably held the stock of CD32s hostage them. Since those systems couldn't be sold to in 1994, and the Amiga CD32 was officially Strangely, the unsold stock ended up finding interactive museum exhibits, slot machine Of course, when a game console ends up being hardly something to crow about. #36: Fujitsu FM Towns Marty (1993) You might assume that this Japan-exclusive name in history. And you'd be right. Seriously, good work. But it honestly was not a bad system. It was one of the earliest 32-bit systems with computer systems under the FM Towns name, of more than 400 titles. The games on the system looked amazing for of ports as "arcade perfect." So, what happened? Sadly, not much. Its high price point - it went for the equivalent from established console manufacturers kept honesty, could have been. On the bright side, its failure meant that by asking for something called the FM Towns #35: Atari 7800 (1986) after the failure of its 5200, attempting It was backwards compatible with the 2600 to hundreds of titles. It included redesigned controllers to be...well, And its graphical capability represented a By some measures, it performed better than It had more games - though not by a wide six years, as opposed to the 5200's two It was even significantly less expensive than Sadly, development of the system was delayed When it finally did release, manufacturing to a measly 100,000 in the first year. Beyond that, the NES and the Sega Master System could not possibly compete. #34: SNK NeoGeo CD (1994) in due time - had at least one major flaw: of games for other consoles. SNK sought to rectify this with the Neo Geo It was a very similar system with a very similar CD-ROM technology. The games looked and sounded great on the It would sometimes take one minute or longer this frustrated both critics and fans. SNK promised a faster-loading version was waned and the improved version was only released All told it sold around half a million units, the Neo Geo AES. #33: Sega SG-1000 (1983) by the company's rivalry with Nintendo, than that, it really isn't. Sega's very first console, the SG-1000, that Nintendo was developing its Famicom. Both companies were well known in the arcade The SG-1000 was released the very same day bit of Nintendo's thunder. It didn't work. As Chris Kohler put it for Wired , "Few and the games weren't that great anyway." The system wasn't a complete bust however; Considering the fact that the Famicom sold to say Sega realized they'd have to step to compete. And, hey, it probably wouldn't be a bad mascot, right? Maybe someone who could go toe-to-toe with Just a thought... #32: Philips CD-i (1991) on this list? Trust me, I am, too. I will make clear, though, that it's not has been exaggerated...it's just that so In the CD-i's defense, it was not primarily It was intended to be more of an interactive and that at least somewhat makes up for the the worst video games of all time. The CD-I actually fared well by many of our It was supported by Philips for an astounding commercial failure - and it had just under We won't claim that it was a good console was not a good game console - but it had you believe. Still, don't buy one. It really is the pits. #31: Magnavox Odyssey 2 (1978) referred to as the very first home video game As ever, it comes down to how one personally question it was the earliest one to make any The Odyssey 2, therefore, had quite a lot Surprisingly, it succeeded. Whereas the original Odyssey was considered - remember, this was before there was technically million. It represented a big step forward, both in The games of course look extremely simple to the public in 1978. While Atari ultimately won the generation one - the Odyssey 2 at least kept Magnavox #30: NEC TurboGrafx-CD / PC Engine CD (1988) NEC was already releasing add-ons to bring it probably should have had at launch. As we've seen already, console manufacturers own dedicated libraries to extend the lives are released while the system is still...you like it was rushed out the door. Such, of course, is true of the TurboGrafx-CD by hyphen aficionados - which was released It had its own library of almost 150 games It also, however, launched at the positively It obviously also required the TurboGrafx-16, was the equivalent of around $1,300. The TurboGrafx-CD sold about a million units, the TurboGrafx-16 sprung for it. All I can say is, I hope they're happy. #29: 3DO Interactive Multiplayer (1993) sake, "3DO" actually refers to technology number of manufacturers, including Panasonic, The idea was that The 3DO Company would collect which made for a nice arrangement. The 3DO Company would not need to work out manufacturers would not need to develop them It allowed everyone to focus on what they In practice, the 3DO was plagued by the same of the era. It was expensive - the equivalent of more and had a library that leaned heavily on low-quality The 3DO sold around two million units in total. It could have been worse, but many of those unexpected second life as a home to pornographic touch. 3DOh my. #28: SNK NeoGeo AES (1990) allowed to use more than three letters per Anyway, this console was actually born as Rather than requiring the costly and difficult board for another game - or replacing the owners to simply insert different cartridges. This obviously lent itself pretty well to there'd be any interest. Instead, they created "rental units" in the system for a low cost. Demand for the rental units was higher than Advanced Entertainment System was born. SNK understood from the very start that the In fact, it would be the most powerful console arcade system. As such, they only shifted around 750,000, The Neo Geo was designed for a niche audience, Well done, SNK. #27: Mattel Intellivision (1980) the Intellivison immediately established Mattel ahead. In fact, let me just take a quick look at HyperScan!? Oh, Jesus... Okay, well, future horrors aside, the Intellivision stranglehold on the industry. As a forerunner to the classic "Genesis ran ads featuring sportswriter George Plimpton Atari's aging 2600. The ads did a great job of showing off how and played...albeit through some carefully Ultimately the Intellivision sold three million so it never quite seized the ball from Atari. #26: Ouya (2013) to the Ouya? Birthed from an extraordinarily successful almost nine times its goal-the Ouya at first the industry. Essentially an independent console, it was of the big names: Nintendo, Sony, and Microsoft. It promised a platform that was easy to develop kit), sold for a very low $99, and every game to play for free. All lofty ideas, but the reality didn't The system sold less than one million units, The best-selling game on the system, Towerfall, The Ouya shop was flooded with shovelware that games be free to play caused many developers they'd get paid. The Ouya storefront remained active until that the console died a long time ago. #25: Nintendo Satellaview (1995) is an important part of gaming history, as attempt at downloadable and streaming game It was clearly a bold idea and one that, by During the lifespan of its Super Famicom, a Japanese satellite broadcasting station. The idea was that gamers could "tune in" their own homes. This gave Nintendo access to high-tech data otherwise, and brought Wowow new subscribers. It was a smart partnership, and Nintendo shifted considering it was catering to a very particular Of course, the fact that Nintendo held some at all, and subscribers got to enjoy an impressive F-Zero, Super Mario, Zelda, Kirby, and much #24: ColecoVision (1982) was poised to make a significant impact on Atari was struggling to recreate the success and Nintendo were a few years away from asserting The ColecoVision - priced low and with a game -sold one million units in just a few Their timing, on the other hand, could not The Video Game Crash of 1983 was just around Sales slowed to a crawl. In its three-ish years on shelves, the console it wasn't profitable enough to sustain. Coleco withdrew entirely from the console While it lasted, though, the ColecoVision Just how much of an impact it could have made But we at least think it deserved to die with #23: Sega CD/Mega-CD (1991) While few people will argue that it was a failure history has made it out to be. In fact, it launched to enthusiasm from both in the unit. It wasn't until the system's library swelled really turned negative. Developers did support the unit quite well, life, including Sonic CD, Snatcher, and a Much of the confusion about the system stems GamePro Magazine, calling it the seventh worst-selling That's far from the case; on this list alone Weirdly, Snow actually inflates the sales six million units...a figure, so far as we Had that figure been correct, it would have In reality, it sold just over 2.2 million, about to be honest. #22: Microsoft Xbox One (2013) the lowest-ranked living console on this list. By a decent margin, as well. Much of that is down to the fact that in the the console exclusively by assuring gamers hated. The Kinect would be mandatory, and it would The system would require a persistent internet There would be aggressive DRM. When fans questioned the wisdom of these decisions, an ill-considered "deal with it" tweet Microsoft backpedaled on much of what had As of now, the Xbox One has sold about half It also has half as many games, and of those With both Sony and Nintendo doing great with to work damned hard to win back the audience Stranger things have certainly happened, though. #21: Sega Pico (1993) the Pico was their dip into the educational one. You're seeing footage from the later upgrade allowed games to played through a television. And, yes, okay, as they do have two different entries, but this list is long enough and the fact that the Sega Pico placed higher The Pico sold 3.4 million units, impressive It's even more impressive when you consider Japan-only. The original Pico and 20 games came west, The Advanced Pico Beena however, never left The Pico line was discontinued when Sega retired Few may miss it, but for an educational console, this. #20: NEC TurboGrafx-16 / PC Engine (1987) Soft pooled their talents to develop the world's The system struggled overall in America and but it actually made some fair inroads in Granted, the Famicom had been on the market Famicom came out it roundly kicked the tar it's due. For its time it was a decently impressive around $450 today. In the long run, though, consumers weren't Additionally, the TurboGrafx-16 had a number TurboGrafx-CD - with several variations about what they needed and why they should Even adding a second player required a peripheral. The system sold 5.8 million units in total but overall the TurboGrafx-16 represented #19: Nintendo Family Computer Disk System Released only in Japan and utilizing higher-capacity the Disk System was more than just an expansion; to let their creativity run wild in an industry This led to DiskSystem exclusives such as each of which pushed the medium forward in in game design. Of course, if you lived outside of Japan, games without a Disk System. That's because Nintendo learned from this the capacity of their standard cartridges, If you've ever wondered why early NES games this , now you know. Though it ultimately made itself obsolete, Japan and had a library of over 200 games. It may never have left its homeland, but the the same. #18: Sega Mark III/Master System (1985) console is recognized in the rest of the world The Master System is not held in especially The first is that it's been eclipsed by The second is that it paled in comparison Technically speaking, the Master System's NES, but its relatively limited library - around NES - and slightly higher price tag didn't The Master System fared better in Europe than be until their next console that Sega became Interestingly, the Master System was still it the longest continuously produced console Fascinating stuff, but we have to wonder why console. Such as, say... #17: Sega Saturn (1994) consoles that makes us wistful for what could Ultimately, it was a victim of timing. Sega launched the system soon after a glut its Mega Drive. It was also, however, Sony's fault for murdering after Sega announced that the Saturn had been day for $399, Sony's spokesman stepped to again to raucous applause. The PlayStation almost immediately outsold from there, ultimately reaching ten-to-one. In spite of a number of well-reviewed games, barely sold more than 9 million units. The Saturn could not compete with the attention next project. The lesson here, of course, being: If you on it. ...because Saturn. Rings. Listen, we've done 75 entries already, okay? I'm tired. #16: Atari 2600 (1977) game consoles," it nearly always settles to the profound impact both of those systems the world. The success of Pong made Atari a household launched gaming into an exciting new era. Yes, the games look ancient now, but releases set the groundwork for entire genres. For gamers who were used to knocking a square nearly any Atari 2600 game in action was downright The 2600 single-handedly turned the video It was the first console in history to sell a feat that only 12 other consoles have ever #15: Nintendo Wii U (2012) It had the unenviable task of having to follow gaming's most iconic brand. In a way it was destined to fail, and that's Or did it? The narrative put forth by the gaming media but the console actually sold upwards of 13 To put it in perspective, that makes it the It also had an impressive library of almost So why is it spoken of in such dismissive Well, in the gaming industry, failure is relative. With the Wii U barely scratching the sales behind Sony's and Microsoft's systems, its magic touch. If the company wanted to remain one of the rest of the industry had already written off Fortunately, they did a bit better with their #14: Sega Dreamcast (1998) definitely allowed the company to go out on The Dreamcast launched to a wave of excitement, - and had a library of 620 games, 15 of Sega clearly went all out on this last-ditch it worked. The console shifted more than 9 million units Sega launched the system in late 1999 in western it to gain any momentum. Sony announced its PlayStation 2, coming out Nintendo announced what would ultimately become Microsoft said they'd be debuting a console Sega's thunder was well and truly stolen In January 2001, Sega made its own announcement: market entirely and focus on developing games.I #13: Nintendo 64 (1996) so - but the Nintendo 64 was the first indication was far from guaranteed. After the unbeatable triple punch of the NES, for attention. It handily beat out the Sega Saturn, saleswise, PlayStation sold. Perhaps ironically, one of the reasons Nintendo 64's strengths: It was cartridge-based. These were more reliable than the discs favored loading times, but they were also significantly towards other systems. What games the Nintendo 64 did get, though, the best-loved games of all time in its library. Super Mario 64, Super Smash Bros., GoldenEye Kazooie...the list goes on. It's not Nintendo's most celebrated console, #12: Nintendo GameCube (2001) 64, the GameCube continued to divide opinions. Time Magazine referred to it as "an unmitigated exclusives and varied library of more than Of those games, 26 hold a Metacritic average It moved just under 22 million units, but stock. It was handily outsold by the PlayStation it was also outsold by the Xbox. Not by much, mind you - the Xbox sold around fell behind a newcomer represented a genuine Having said all of that, it's possible with stuff the GameCube had to offer. The Wind Waker is still one of the most beautiful Super Mario Sunshine and Luigi's Mansion Metroid Prime, Pikmin, Eternal Darkness, and are just a few highlights of the generation's #11: Sega Genesis/Mega Drive (1988) and they will tell you that the Mega Drive and healthcare - is one of the most classic If you'd like to hear our thoughts on 64 you can check out our Mega Drive Mini video that there's something inherently warm and Their simplicity is almost elegant, their that sound chip produced some truly sublime, Sega invested a lot of money into marketing their chance to truly challenge Nintendo. Whether or not they succeeded is up to each Only joking; they did not succeed and were Still, the fact that they were able to go volumes about the quality of the Mega Drive. And now, it's time for the 10 - according ever produced. #10: Nintendo Switch (2017) public embarrassment of the Wii U, and - against Nintendo took its reputation as the unrivaled that directly into a home console that would Gamers were won over almost immediately; only within striking distance of the lifetime numbers The system already has 2,000 games available sheer fact that huge releases such as Skyrim justifies their rerelease. The Switch is the most recent console on this Another year or two down the line, its placement Great job, Nintendo. We honestly weren't sure you still had it #9: Nintendo Entertainment System/Famicom It is difficult to express just how important It didn't quite save a collapsing industry; had already collapsed. We're simplifying, of course, but we sort Entire books have been written about the NES is that if you are playing video games today, And if you're not playing video games today, a video that isn't relevant to your interests The NES was a genuine sensation the world all-time best franchises. It had a fair price and a library of more It was also the very first console to surpass seventh-best-selling console in history. The NES has been outdone in almost every category of sheer importance. #8: Microsoft Xbox (2001) but that's only because they tend to make Even we must admit, though, with their console right. The Xbox was unquestionably a gamble, but there was once again room for a third option, For starters, the fact that the company was loss on every console sold, keeping the cost Then there was the impressive Xbox Live which, online gaming streamlined and easily accessible But, really, we all know that the Xbox owes Combat Evolved. The console never really made a dent in Japan, more than 24 million units in total. It was a solid and genuinely impressive debut. #7: Nintendo Wii (2006) We don't just mean gamers, either; the system Everyone from Little Timmy right up to Nana simple, intuitive control scheme made them Of course, this success made it a haven for being home to some truly abysmal games. That's a shame, because its library also the Metroid Prime Trilogy, Donkey Kong Country version of Resident Evil 4. It also introduced the Virtual Console, allowing from consoles past. It wasn't the most powerful system on the this daring approach gave Nintendo their best-selling shifted. #6: Sony PlayStation 4 (2013) console still hit the top ten, and as this Wii to make it the third-best-selling The PlayStation 4 has admittedly slowed down and gamers turn their eyes towards the upcoming how great a run it's had. This is perhaps most easily illustrated by God of War, Persona 5, Uncharted 4, Horizon were the only six games on the PlayStation So why isn't it higher on the list? Honestly, it's down to the fact that it categories. For example, the system only has around 2,300 Yes, the fact that we're using "only" stiff the competition is here at the top. #5: Super Nintendo Entertainment System/Super Nintendo had a runaway success with the NES, slump. Everything that great console did, the SNES The graphics were prettier and more colorful, the games are some of the best in history. The SNES's library was almost exactly the games - but these were almost uniformly The SNES sold just a hair under 50 million ever. It remained popular well into subsequent generations, in 2003. For the second generation running, Nintendo The NES was proven to not be a fluke, and game ideas. The company's star has both risen and fallen always remain - an industry highlight. #4: Sony PlayStation (1994) and well-established names, the PlayStation as a more mature alternative to Nintendo. The PlayStation became the first console in only three other consoles have done to this It's also the second-best-selling console have taken that title away by the time you Silent Hill, Spyro the Dragon, Ape Escape, made their debuts on Sony's little grey and Mega Man essentially jumping ship to join In all, there were just under 8,000 games and away the largest library on this list of 90% or higher - also the largest amount #3: Sony PlayStation 3 (2006) 3 a disservice by slapping a ridiculously It launched for $499, which equates to around Without question, that encouraged a number from Microsoft and Nintendo. The price eventually came down, but the PlayStation to date. To put that in perspective, though, it sold Sony's worst-selling console was still only also Sony consoles. That kind of failure only reinforces how much The PlayStation 3 is home to some of the greatest three Uncharted games, Ni No Kuni, Little Souls.The PlayStation 3 has squeezed into proud of, but we can't help but wonder how launch. #2: Microsoft Xbox 360 (2005) We put the Xbox 360 at number two. Happy now? You should be, because it's exactly the Its strong emphasis on online functionality - set the standard for the industry. As many times as console manufacturers tried 360 was the first one to actually make good and games for download. It wasn't perfect; the Red Ring of Death to own a 360 to know how serious it was, and trying to cram the barely functional Kinect was unquestionably an enormous success. It moved almost 84 million units (the fifth 90% or higher average on Metacritic (the second a full 11 years. It was a truly great console, and without What more could anyone want? Well, funny you should ask... #1: Sony PlayStation 2 (2000) the top spot before we even begin making the been? The PlayStation 2 was a sensation. It moved a positively insane 155 million units, putting it 53 million units ahead of the second-best To put that 53 million in perspective, only that many in their entire lives. The PlayStation 2 sold for a fair price and It proved beyond a shadow of a doubt that new name in the industry. Its library consists of nearly 4,500 games, 1, but the level of quality was overall much 2, Persona 3 and 4, Okami, Shadow of the Colossus, Psychonauts, Kingdom Hearts, and...honestly, your favorite PlayStation 2 games, because The PlayStation 2 was nothing short of a miracle, And that's every console ranked from worst decided not to cover, or forgot about. Which consoles ranked lower than you expected? Where would you have placed the Pyuuta Jr.? Do you have a compelling argument for why have been at the top? If so, type it in all caps in the comments. Also, if you have suggestions for other "Every us know. As long as things exist, we will be right If you enjoy the content we produce on TripleJump, friends. You can also follow us on Twitter, and, if check out our rewards on Patreon. I'm Peter and I'm Ben from TripleJump,