Translator: Carolina Parodi I'm a highly sensitive person. What is the first thing you think That I must be shy and introverted? Or perhaps very emotional? Or maybe even that you need The common assumption is that we are somehow who picked a losing ticket You can see this in action You will see images (Laughing) wilted dandelions, and crying people. Sensitivity clearly has a PR problem. (Laughter) Today I want to help change that. Maybe by now you're wondering I invite you to imagine living You also have a vivid inner world, where all of your emotions are magnified. Sadness is a deep sorrow, You also care beyond reason and empathize without limits. Imagine being in permanent osmosis Highly sensitive people &quot;You are too sensitive,&quot; &quot;Stop taking everything to heart,&quot; or my favorite, &quot;You should The fundamental message is clear: to be highly sensitive I used to agree with that. I always thought I should or a disclaimer: Now, let me share with you a few of the perks of being For one, I have an intensely which means it's impossible to switch off. That also means that insomnia As you can imagine, that is particularly (Laughing) Also I cannot watch scary because the images haunt me forever I remember when I was a child, It traumatized me so much that I was unable let alone the sea, for several years. And, embarrassingly enough, I do my childhood nickname when it comes to traveling and hotel beds. The mattress should be not too hard, My father once jokingly recommended that I should simply start traveling to avoid any future travel hassles. (Laughing) I often wondered, &quot;what good Well, the gifts of sensitivity I've come to learn to love that and also that I have a strong intuition It was only at the age of 25 that changed my life: &quot;The Highly Sensitive Person&quot; I could finally put a name to my overwhelmingly and it gave me hope In this book she describes as people who have a genetic trait That's quite a mouthful. And, surprisingly, 15 - 20% Now, she uses the wonderful acronym &quot;DOES&quot; The &quot;D&quot; stands for &quot;depth of processing&quot;. As HSPs, we have a phenomenal ability My favorite example for this is what (Laughing) Basically, we can take up to an hour despite the fact that we will very likely (Laughing) The &quot;O&quot; stands for &quot;overstimulation&quot;. We get quickly overwhelmed Now, I'm Bavarian but I actually have to leave after an hour because I get completely overpowered by the mix of roast chicken and the cacophony of songs It is too much for my senses. The &quot;E&quot; stands for &quot;empathy&quot;; It's like that old Hebrew saying: &quot;When one cries, the other tastes salt.&quot; Lastly, the &quot;S&quot; stands for HSPs are like a finely tuned sensor; Unfortunately, that means who will wake you up at three A.M. to tell you that they hear two floors down. As you can see, being an HSP is about I would like to address when it comes to HSP stereotypes. The first assumption is that HSPs that wanted a fancier name. (Laughter) The fact of the matter is, which means we cannot park them in the convenient HSPs come in many shades of pastel. Secondly, because of the supposed many assume that HSPs are women. It may come as a surprise that 50% In our society, men but aggressive and competitive. Sadly, the notion that men is still too much of an alien concept. Now, it is a good time to tell you that I don't think HSPs are better they are simply different. I would also like to point out that they are not members and also, HSPs don't have a secret (Laughing) HSPs are like everyone else except that they experience the world in a more vivid way. And if you think that all HSPs are alike, that is not true; no two HSPs are the same. Every HSP has their own alongside other identity markers like gender, ethnicity, and cultural I would also like to point out and it is also not a choice. It is a genetic trait. We are essentially born to be mild. Everytime you tell an HSP it's like telling someone with blue eyes Chances are, no matter how often you tell them, you'll still have the same As a society, we have come to think an unfortunate, emotional Achilles heel, that tempers with our ability to become We all too readily belittle the idealists, This was, however, not always the case. In previous centuries, philanthropists, were all venerated for their Who would we be without Leonardo Da Vinci Without Anais Nin or Balzac? Or Mother Teresa or Ghandi? Our world would certainly be Now, I'm not suggesting that all HSPs But, most HSPs have a genuine urge Because they feel every pain they see, they want to elevate the forgotten When HSPs try to hide we all lose. For would a society not be poorer that lacks the beating heart That discredits imagination, I believe so. That is why I think to accept and appreciate sensitivity for the temperature regulating effect I believe we're all sensitive to different degrees HSPs are simply That is why how we think and We need to come together as a society to rewrite the negative and turn it into a positive one. We need to erase the notion to finally benefit By doing so, we will create an environment where everybody is safe not just HSPs. How can we go back to creating and acceptance for sensitivity? On a public level, I believe the two most urgent changes In schools, we need to recognize and understand And for parents and teachers alike, the often well-meant desire to survive in the big, needs to stop. We should not try to force sheep On a corporate level, the system is set up to favor Because sensitive people typically are more soft spoken instead of competitive, they often get left behind To change this, we need to create an environment and not just a select few. That is why I believe, for corporations, to invite sensitive people to the table. Because without sensitives integrity, an, ultimately, humanity. On a personal level, we can all make an impact simply by refraining from judging of the sensitives around us. The next time you feel like I would ask you to stop and pause. Fill that pause with understanding. You will see that the simple act To my fellow HSPs, I say: Take heart and be unashamedly yourselves. Stop trying to toughen up. Stop hiding; you're beautiful as you are. Don't feel weird, because it's not you but rather a world in which corruption, violence, and greed are the norm. As Krishnamurti said, &quot;It is no measure of health to be well adjusted When I was a little girl, I loved chasing butterflies in our garden and I admired their fragile beauty. I felt a deep urge to protect them, so I decided to trap them filled with grass and flowers, to keep them safe with me in my room. I quickly understood: butterflies do not like captivity. This made me understand: Their colorful contribution was exactly as it should be. Similarly, HSPs should not hide away from the pain of this world It is their role to step up and share their sensitive gifts with all of us. I believe, as humans, we are all united by our experience Also I don't believe you need to be an HSP We are facing grave political, cultural, and environmental Now, more than ever, we need the contribution to pave a path for troubled times ahead. The more we all allow ourselves to connect to our innate sensitive gifts, the more we can heal ourselves Inspired by John Lennon - who perhaps wrote the biggest with &quot;Imagine&quot; - let me close by saying: Please, don't tell me I'm a dreamer, for I know I'm not the only sensitive one. Have faith that you'll join hands with me to make this world a gentler one. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)