Good morning, Anazala family. Today, we're so excited because it's currently 6 in the morning. and I'm about to wake up the kids for school Oh wait, I can't see nothing. So since today is Halloween, I'm gonna prank at the end of the video. It's a family tradition, but you Mimi, good morning. It's Halloween. Morning, are you excited to I'm either gonna be Joy or Barbie, yeah. Okay, come on, brush your So guys, Noah woke up in the middle Noah, Noah, why did you come to my room? Why did you come to my room at night? Get up, get up. Come on, good morning. Everybody rise and grind. Let's go wake up Mila. She woke up, it's Halloween. Yeah, I know. Are you going to go trick-or-treating? Yeah. Do you want to come see Yeah. Are you going to show the... Okay, I'll let Anas sleep a little bit. Sorry. So guys, today, the kids are going to be because they have like a Did you just close the door in my face? What are you doing, bro? Oh my goodness. Is that what you're going to be? Yeah. Can we see? Can we see? What is it? So guys, this is what Noah's going to be. Oh my goodness. Wait, I want to say good Oh, okay. Go, go, go. Okay. Come say good morning. Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. I can't see anything. Good morning. Baby, I look bad. Where's my kisses, Noah? Who's the love of my life? I'm the love of your life Okay I think we're ready to go Look at the outfits Oh my god Who are you Mila? I'm gonna be Joy from inside out Let's look what mommy did for her permanent spray and look at the and look at the glitter. Noah, who are you bro? Okay, show me show me Do a 360 Bye honey! Have a good day! Send me pictures from the parade! The Halloween parade! Bye! I love you! I love you so much! Be a good boy! See you tomorrow Did he say see you tomorrow? I think we need a new school for him! Bye! I love you! He grew up so fast. Anyways, they're in it Oh, that almost fell on my face. They don't even know what Hello Anazala family! This is usually the part where we So, first things first, we're gonna Okay, listen, Asala's dad So my dad would take all our and then the next morning, he'll How do you fall for it every year? Because they actually, my dad loves sweets. But then it turns out to be a prank. Basically, we've never done it year, I'm gonna blame it on you. Okay, that's the major piece I just wanna see the Noah's serious about his candy. Okay, we need to decide when if someone tears or cries Yeah, agreed? Yes. There's gonna be a lot in this video. oh alot alot Oh, by the way, we didn't address she's having a problem with the neighbor. No You're gonna know why okay second thing we're doing today, important thing anyone should do We are going to vote So Asala and Ronan are gonna go to vote. There's early voting in am Canadian, so I can't vote - but Asala's gonna be voting today Stay in Canada honey Third thing we're gonna do is pick because Mila actually We're freaking out about that because that So, let's see how that plays out gonna be going trick-or-treating and we're going with really good know and you will love So wait for that It's gonna Oh my god. That's a lot huh? That's a lot happening today but I say that you look Thank you guys look at this beauty She looks and this is one of them so Okay, hey I have one more thing for all our Spanish viewers if you might be noticing that this Hola, como estas? Estoy bien. A mi me gusto la pizza Was that dubbed or real? That was real. So basically if you prefer to watch this Keep in mind this is a trial not be as good at the beginning but as we go it's gonna so make sure to leave a Comment dubbing if it's good if it's bad Oh my god, what a day today. Alright, now we're ready to go and if you're new to this channel make And make sure to like this video the notification squad and this is it And now we say let's go Excuse me, I'm talking Sorry Who does he think he is? Okay He's asking to take pictures by Look look how he's trying to act cool Instead of taking a picture with your wife Who do you think you are Tom Cruise? Well, and you're actually Yeah What kind of loyal friend does that? Honey, come, come, come. Let's take a picture. No, I don't want to take a picture anymore. I'm showing them. Do you guys like how I look ? No, they don't. To all the girls out there, That's going to be you. Make sure you take a picture with Jordan, what are you doing here? Okay, let's go. No, I'm sad Honey, I'm kidding. You look beautiful too. no you didn't even take a picture I will take a picture with you now too late i don't want one guys i posted the pictures No you didn't I deleted it okay guys so we just got to and that's where they're gonna be voting ronan do you want to tell Yeah who are you voting for? I don't feel informed enough to endorse anyone But it's a great day to be an You don't know how to vote? How do you guys vote? Do you guys have maple leaf to vote on? Are the polling stations in Igloo? Okay americans Go vote! Okay go vote Go vote! Guys, if you live in Doesn't matter who you vote He said can I cheat from your paper? How are you going to cheat voting? Oh my god, Asala is about to copy Ronan. Vote here. Am I allowed in there as a Canadian? No Canadians allowed. I feel left out Are you gonna tell us who Yeah I might. Oh my god. Yeah I will. I'll tell you guys. Here we go. They're voting. Ronan and Asala. We asked them if we're allowed A few films even better because So guys make sure to vote. This is really nice. It's a great day for America. I voted. She voted and he voted. Who should we vote for? He's guilty. Don't talk to me. What's her problem man I don't know. Guys, make sure you go out and vote. If you can, it doesn't Make sure you're heard as an American. Use your voice. And you have up until And I really hope this makes a difference So yeah, vote. USA, USA! Canada! So I voted for... So we just got to the dentist Hi Mimi. Hi! Honey I have a question. What? Why is this? Do we do we have a plan to return it? Take it offThis is embarrsing This whole time I was walking like this Yes Don't rip the shirt guys she's doing this in front of you to This is true Love Why would I Okay. Hey Mila!, are you There we go. So Ronan, this is like one Look how nice it is. Oh, wow. Oh my God, dude, this is really nice, huh? Every time I come here, it's really nice. Guys, do you think Mila's Guys, there's something with Mila if I've ever told you about, but it's gonna be exciting and interesting. Okay, Mila, come on. Okay, go check in. Oh, wow. Noah went in there. Hey, Noah. Hey, come down, Noah. Hey. slide slide! It's cool huh Hey Noah! do you want to see the dentist? I don't want to do it Why Because I just want to see Mila No! I'm the judge to see if she cries or not Hey Noah! I wanna see if you cry or not! I saw him eat candy Okay so we need the dentist we need the dentist Is that one? It's just one! Two sweets. That's a cookie. And a cupcake. I didn't have enough. I didn't. Can I eat this? I want to go. I like it. I like it. Yeah. I know. It's got a little piece in it. And your spoon. Hold on. She's not freaked out yet. Oh baby, I love this so much. I love this one too, but not as much ... so it's just cleaning today Hi, honey Hey, do you love me? What is that? You look good! We're not scared anymore, right? Yeah! Show me your muscles And now we're done. How was it Mila? You're amazing! And next... Guys we're gonna get ready put on our and you guys are gonna see who's Oh, no, don't tell them You can't tell them There's two special people coming No three because one of them Okay, okay, you guys will see... Guys at night, we're about Okay guys, so behind here is Mila, Hey, are you guys ready? Yeah! Okay, so these are the outfits Oh, you guys probably see my outfit now. Wow, trick or treating. Okay, three. Who's going first? Mila, Mila. Two, one, go! Yeah! Oh my God! Can you guess who I am? Who are you? Barbie! Oh, show us! That's nice, I like it. Good job. So that's our Barbie here. Okay, Noah, are you ready? Three, two, one, go! Oh my goodness! So that's the same outfit as the morning. He really liked it, and Ooh, Noah, you look good, bro. How much candy are you gonna get today? A thousand. Who's gonna get more? I think it's going to go up Okay, well let's see. I don't know how to feel about Okay, okay. Asala, are you ready? Wait, wait, wait. Before that Mila, Mila, Can you film? Of course I'm going to film, mamma mia. Okay, here we go. Grab it. Okay. Okay, are you ready? One, two, three. He's a soccer player. I forgot, is that Ronaldo or Messi? That's not Ronaldo, but If I had a ball you would see my Asala are you ready? Okay, the outfit that Asala Maleh trick-or-treating competition today 3 2 1 Go go go go go Do they say howdy mate? No. No. Hey, do the thing that Hello everyone, or whatever. My name is Captain Jack Sparrow. Honey, you look good. I'm the Barbie of Pokemon. What happened to Mila? I'm the Barbie of Pokemon. Wow, Noah, what's happening with you? Dude, I think we, yeah, there's an don't know where did it come from. Hi, Potato. From the dad, for sure. Okay guys, but before we head screenshot of all of us together. Here we go Screenshot post it we will repost it right away. Are you guys ready? Look what Ronan got me Ronan, Oh, I got a soccer ball! here, Let me Try to land it in this cup Watch this! Okay Mila, I want a lot of Is it gonna go on your neck? How did you know? Look at this! Guys it's time to trick or Okay guys, so before we had meet our special guests, we didn't forget to mention Today it's gonna be Oh my god, Megan, thank you so much We love you so much. And guys, if you wanna be in the mention your name in the next video, make sure to subscribe. And click the post notification button. And if you do that, we will sure We usually mention the names that come one of the first, first commenters. And that's it, no? Let's head to go trick-or-treating. And then the prank Yes! Okay, okay. Hey guys! Look who's here! Hello Barbie! Hi Rebecca! Hi! Who's this? Tonight we steal the moon! And this is Zadie! Zadie, what are you doing? And guys, look who's here! What's up, what's up? What's up brother, we're back, we're back. Guys, Liam is back from Ohio. Guess what this is? A Head of... Human? Group boss! Actually? Group Boss! Yes, what do you want to do with that body? Get out of my house. Yo, so guys, basically we So Liam's house is right there. We came to his neighborhood because because there's like a lot No, our neighborhood gets packed. You get the most candy here. So that's what we're here for. The goal is to see who gets the I'm gonna win! Trick or treat! I hope you get lots of candy Thank you Oh my god Guys look at this house No way That's the jackpot Look at mine! This is Noah's Mila show I'm going to give all of Tomorrow? In school, yes. But this will be for every day. For every day? Yeah. Okay. Okay. This is going to be really I think I'm going to feel bad. Hey man. Show me! Oh, honey, you look really Someone's staying outside tonight I didn't even know you Dressed like my grandpa. Hi, grandpa. And he's back, guys. He's the Grandpa Ready, guys? A picture for the future. Another one, three, two, one, big smile. Oh my God! Guys, these are the moments This is just so beautiful, just seeing I really hope you guys had a Make sure you cherish it with your I love you. I don't want to prank them anymore. The next day Good morning Anazala family. Anyway, today is the next We have to take the kids to school right It's too early. Do you want us to still do the prank? Yes. Okay. So we're gonna take all the I say we put just like, like wrappers. Okay. Like trash. Okay, so the plan is we're gonna and once they come down have What Where did you put our candy? Where did Mommy put all our Halloween candy? okay kiddos so me and mommy so we actually ate all of your candy me and mommy were really hungry Why? because we were on a diet and then we had to eat all the candy why do we love to I No, this is just a wrapper. Okay, we'll get you more candy. Maybe next year. I think all of my candy is in the pantry. No, it's not in the pantry. We took it all from the pantry. Can we check? It's not there. Okay, okay, Noah, Noah, Noah! Hey, I was just kidding. I was just kidding. I was just kidding. I was just kidding. Ow, ow, ow Okay, look, it's all here, it's all here. Yay! Oh, hey! Yay! My chicken nugget baby! I would never eat all your candy. And hi! Can I eat one of them? Um, no. Okay, guys, so this is about to turn It's just a little tiny little prank. Keeping the tradition going. This is it for today, we love you guys so Bye y'all. Boop, boop, boop! Candy land.