In 1977 the F-15 behind me arrived at Bitburg line of defence against Soviet aggression. The late 1960s ignited a fear in the West. While this the Foxbat was perceived to be a significant partly in response to this that the US began that has dominated the skies ever since. the US Air Force is still flying F-15 Eagles technologically advanced fighters, the F-15 dogfighter. So much so that an upgraded model - in the next few months, potentially extending 90 years after the first F-15 took every major conflict of the last forty an F-15 has never been downed by enemy action. And are we justified in suggesting that the To find the answers to these questions we have North Vietnam. It is here that the US Air Force primary air superiority fighter, the McDonnell American strike aircraft to their targets, me - were paying a heavy price for their lack MiGs sent up to intercept them. By the end of many of them in air-to-air combat. of long-range multi-purpose fighter-bomber, it severely lacking a fighter jet that could hold US launched the top-secret Project FX to set the competition had been launched to design could escape radar and visual detection, of missiles, guns and rockets and the latest be the maintenance of air superiority. none other than McDonnell Douglas, the same Designed to excel in air-to-air combat, the and versatility. The airframe's low weight-to-wing it to make sharp turns without losing speed. thrust. In fact, the combined thrust of its and drag, allowing it to accelerate vertically. feet per minute and speeds exceeding Mach 2.5. of the cockpit, allowing the pilot to more innovative airframe were advanced avionics and the tried and tested General Electric M61 20mm On 16 June 1972, the first F-15A rolled out of the taking its maiden flight the following month. took to the skies for the first time. The F-11A behind me was one of those early Eagles test pilot Paul Millett recalls taking an F-15 I managed to get a flight at Bitburg that that's probably the highest performance That compared with aircraft like the and at slow speed you can do anything with it one flight, I didn't find any vices at all. The F-15's first kill came in 1979. While Defence Force pilot Marom-Melnik shot down a action throughout the Arab-Israeli conflict the adversary of the F-4 Phantom in Vietnam, By this time, the second generation of F-15s were benefitted from several improvements, including The F-15 even demonstrated its ability to one wing following a mid-air collision the Israeli cvpilot was able to bring the aircraft's powerful afterburners. Due to the fuel didn't realise that his entire starboard wing had a nearby airstrip that the extent of the damage out representatives to the aircraft to verify the fast enough it could remain stable, even without The F-15's comparison with a rocket took on a generation of F-15s were in operation. The F-15C improvements, including 2,000 pounds of additional F-15s through their paces in the Arab-Israeli diverting some of its F-15s to a very different began as soon as Sputnik entered orbit in 1957. US military launched a program to design a weapons Over the years, the B-47 Stratojet, B-58 Hustler, suitable weapons platform, but none had succeeded of the F-15. On 13th September 1985, Major Wilbert to 36,000 feet over the Pacific Ocean. At 12:42PM Solwind P78-1 satellite moving at 17,500 mph, a direct hit, and in doing so, became the first potential of using modified fighter aircraft The F-15 Eagle eventually saw combat with aircraft it had been designed to destroy, the manoeuvrability and impressive armament, to improve the specifications for the F-15 when intercept hypersonic bombers, the MiG-25 still of all time. And yet in every other metric, This advantage would come to bear in 1990. August 1990, F-15s provided the defensive power to the region. During Desert Storm, 120 claiming an impressive 36 of the 39 air-to-air forces. Within the first ten days of the war, The First Gulf War also provided the of F-15 - the Strike Eagle. The F-15E Strike equipped to locate and destroy ground targets, as the new aircraft had an additional crew member. who operated the cutting-edge Low Infra-Red for Night system, known as F-15Es were employed with an 11-ton payload to destroy strengthened underground bunkers. undertake additional training. Military are used to train aircrew in target-finding and combat flight. This F-15 Weapon System Trainer Lakenheath in Suffolk, not far from our museum different scenarios were programmed into By the end of the First Gulf War, the F-15E fighter. Using their innovative LANTRIN destroying Iraqi SCUD missiles at night. the number of enemy missiles launched in the first ten days of the war to one The F-15 has been deployed to every major since the Gulf War. F-15s served in where they downed three Serbian MiG-29 fighters. deployed on operations over Iraq from based at Lakenheath, were deployed in these U.S. Air Force base in the UK and the only Outside of the US, the F-15 serves as including the air defence forces of Qatar, South the F-15 outside of the United States is variant produced under license by Mitsubishi. 1977 and can lay claim to 61 of the F-15's 102 F-15E Strike Eagles were involved in shooting The potential sale of the latest generation of generated headlines as the debate rages over the The US is busy filling its own ranks with this the F-15E. The newer engines can produce 5,000 tonnes more than the F-15E's engines. fighter types and can carry a wider array of ensured that the US has maintained air superiority while the introduction of the multi-purpose Strike might not be as advanced as the F-35 Joint F-16 Fight Falcon, or as stealthy as the F-22 vital part of the United States' armament is