Professor Paul Bloom: so far in the course are human shares. language, about rationality, about the emotions, development, and we've been But honestly, interested in is why we're these differences and the And that's what we'll turn to So first, we'll discuss how are different theories about what psychological way from the and then we'll review different different. going to bother the most people. It's not evolution. scientific findings on human to many of us, And I will just try to persuade Okay. Well, there's all sorts of ways. the core of your being for male or female. language, what pronoun we use, your--on how--whether you're that though imperfectly is your who you're attracted to. think of ourselves as males and and the question of why some of sex with males, others with both, harder to define desires, we're going to talk about it sexual desire has been spent and on a scientific discussion of do that on spring break. This is also such a good topic The very last class of the and the question of what makes what makes people unhappy, their happiness. happy you are from a scale of 1 across this room. as to why. life--This is somewhat study this in more or less We don't have to ask people. relationships, how they end, We could look at your criminal Some of you are going to see Most will not. little troubles all through your Some of you already have seen possibly a lineup. thing. And at the root of all human factors. the two main interesting One is personality. And this is what--These are the today first from the standpoint how do we explain them, why these differences exist in One way to characterize people's style with dealing and particularly their style other people. you know of and you could talk You could talk about it in irresponsible, good-hearted. personality with other people's colleague who gave a talk last He's wonderful. and very kind [laughter] And so, this difference is a Now, when we talk about something else as well. trait across situations and So, if all of a sudden the smacks you in the head, wouldn't call that &quot;personality&quot; a result of a situation. situation. around all the time angry. That'd be something you carry we mean by personality. characterize differences in And it's a deep question. to do so. assessment has to satisfy two And these are terms which are psychological research but it's sort of measure. Reliability means there is not And one crude way to think a test is reliable if you test times and you get the same My bathroom scale is reliable it gives me more or less the It's not reliable if it's off day. personality test now and it says defensive, tomorrow and it says you're calm it's not a reliable test. could trust over time. different. measures what it's supposed to So, validity means it's sort of Forget about how reliable it is. interested in? suppose I determine your birth. born and I have a theory that, you are. the date of your birth. are the dumbest, smartest. Christmas Eve. Is that a reliable test? reliable test. I'll test you tomorrow; I'll test you the day you die; Is it a valid test? It's absolutely not a valid It has nothing to do with But you noticed these are two Something can be reliable but valid and not reliable. personality tests. place including on the web. I took &quot;which super hero are [laughter] determining what super hero you You could take this yourself if The same web page, in whether you're &quot;hot&quot; or not. And when I did this [laughter] [laughter] love gadgets, innocent not suffer the pain you Now, the honest-- [laughter] it's neither reliable nor When I first did the test I Hulk.&quot; and was &quot;Wonder Woman.&quot; And finally, I carefully tailored my answers But the fact that I can do about both the reliability of Here is an example - a real This is, in black and white test, the Rorschach inkblot How many people have heard of Okay. actually, in any sort of test? room have taken them. psychiatric cases but then About eighty percent of use it and most graduate Psychological Association who Catholic seminaries use it for seminary. Herman Rorschach. the inkblot test. teenager - I am not kidding [laughter] these inkblots and then seeing insights into the nature of into what they are. Come on. What do you see? I see two people holding hands Professor Paul Bloom: together. Anybody have a different Yes, in back. Yes. Professor Paul Bloom: Okay. Okay. [laughs][laughter] Dancing bears, very good. One other. Student: Professor Paul Bloom: A Well, it turns out that there answers to the Rorschach test. and this is from a real &quot;it is important to see the usually females or clowns.&quot; &quot;If you don't, problems relating to people.&quot; If you want to go for &quot;a cave &quot;vagina,&quot; that's also okay. Now, the Rorschach test is It has been studied and throwing dice. Nonetheless, all over the place. custody cases. partner and you guys are the kids, shrink's office looking at this. this is why they end up on the There are services. kind enough to put on the web including the right answers to But they are worthless as Can we do better? Gordon Allport did a study dictionary and took all of the related to personality and he But what was interesting was independent traits. sociable, welcoming, the same thing. tried to narrow it down, &quot;In how many ways are people's another?&quot; difference do you need? that would narrow you in and say One approach was from Eysenck, two. scale of and somewhere on the scale of And since there's basically two settings for each, of people. which he described as non-psychoticism&quot; that crudely or empathetic. with two settings each giving Later on Cattell dropped it So, these sixteen personality would differ. describe your roommate along you should be able to do so. people have come to the too few, but sixteen might be And there's a psychological as &quot;The Big Five.&quot; factors are these, talk about each other and use the claim is we could do so in but deep down we're talking dimensions. psychological test measures about their personality, measuring one of these five And it means that, another in the world, we're interested in. versus stable.&quot; worrying or are they calm? &quot;Open to experience versus &quot;Agreeable,&quot; which is agreeable, rude, And &quot;conscientious versus not careless, reliable versus A good way to think about these &quot;ocean,&quot; o-c-e-a-n. openness, conscientiousness, agreeableness, And the claim is those are the in which people differ from one Well, why should we believe Why should we take this theory Well, there's actually some It seems to have some over time. years--If I test your traits and test you five years changed much. thirty, it's very stable indeed. and then give Mom and Dad a on each of the five traits, will still be there. across multiple observers. five traits--If I ask your of you, he or she thinks of you and your of you, how would--back to gender--How They tend to overlap a lot. leave--and your personality people around you. in terms of these five Finally, it seems to If this didn't have anything to you wouldn't be very happy you wouldn't take it seriously So, conscientiousness--how you relates to how faithful you are How openness--open you are on a relates to how likely you are to &quot;Extroverts&quot; look people in the partners because they're So, these are real scales. Hulk, Wonder Woman&quot; doesn't real world, these five dimensions does seem As an example of the agreement, study of several of the show &quot;The Simpsons&quot; because they everybody knew. judge these Simpson characters These is &quot;openness, conscientiousness, found considerable agreement. I've covered up is the So, for those of you who have this is all going to be but those of you who have, would be particularly agreeable? Yeah. Professor Paul Bloom: You are right. Flanders and Marge. Student: Bloom: Krusty is complicated case [laughter] Burns--but also--Where is he? where's Nelson? You get strong consensus that are highly agreeable people, while Mr. Nelson's the little kid that &quot;Ha ha.&quot; for low agreeability. That's all I want to say at how we measure it and, to it later when we talk about Now, I want to deal with the The second big difference is Now, how do you define There's no easy definition. it's kind of difficult to get talking about here. experts to define intelligence. and over again. intelligence involves abstract and the capacity to acquire That's at the core of being Other people mentioned things language, math, knowledge, and creativity also And again, it might be have a gut feeling about what it So, you know Homer is the show--is actually of limited My colleague is of very high a wonderful fellow, but he's probably not as smart really smart. Ralph Wiggum, [laughter] And it's important to figure this is what research does, there are some people who are very smart and some people who dumb. from a scientific standpoint, robust and interesting fashion. review of the history of intelligence, I want to focus on. Spearman, which is there's two There is &quot;G&quot; and there is &quot;S.&quot; tests. you're given as part of an IQ you'll get a different score on There'll be a math test and a and you'll get different scores. intelligence. something you bring to each of So, this is diagrammed here. For each of them there is an a &quot;G.&quot; notion. psychologists a lot even in People say, &quot;So, &quot;I think he is high 'G.'&quot; smart guy. Well, you wouldn't need &quot;G&quot; if these tests had nothing to do If the tests were genuinely intelligence. over again is that when it comes performance on multiple there's two things going on. are on the specific task, general correlation that people And I could express this with Imagine I'm running a gym and athletic tests. we have a basketball shooting fencing, a list of ten of them. each of the tests and then But what we'll discover is that of one another. athletic thing tend to be good If there's somebody who's swimming, odds are they're climbing. IQ, which is above and beyond things there seems to be a in general. Now, there's, modern intelligence tests and tests now. modern tests, adults and children, The way they are scored is that So, it's just automatic. It's as if I did the computed the average, average 100, said your score is It's just the average. and what this means is that it 68%, get between 85 and 115 on The vast majority, If you are, say, which I imagine some people in you belong to 0.13% of the That's the way IQ tests work. We could now ask about their What do they mean? a matter of extreme debate. just said. by the book by Herrnstein and Curve. And in The Bell argument that IQ matters that people's status in society successful they are - follows standard IQ tests. claims and it's probably before but spawned huge controversy. controversy some interesting One response to the Herrnstein American Psychological which put together a group of intelligence to write a report intelligence--what they thought &quot;Does IQ matter? intelligence? different--why are people Why do different human groups and so on. there was also another group of not quite the same as the first another report. this, the links to the reports Well, what did they conclude? different but here's the broad regarding the importance of IQ And the claim is IQ is strongly so than any other single important educational, economic, and social outcomes. the correlation is very strong success in military training. it's moderate but robust such And in other cases it's smaller &quot;law abidingness,&quot; and they measure it is of great practical So, IQ matters. IQ matters for &quot;social positions,&quot; performance&quot; and other If I know your IQ score, matters. I know your score on a I would know something about you something interesting about you On the other hand, about why this connection So, to some extent, effectiveness of IQ is a And here is why. important--seriously, So, it's true that your IQ is getting into a good school like But the reason for this, is because to get to Yale they the SAT. school. which is yet another IQ test. it's a self-fulfilling I could make--Society could extremely important for They could say nobody under six And then some psych professor &quot;Of course, height is educational accomplishment,&quot; made it so. the society that draws highly and educational achievement and just going to follow that IQ At the same time, pretty clearly not entirely a There is some evidence that intelligence in an interesting mental speed and memory span. for instance, how fast you could think and Now, I want to shift to the talk about why. differences, one in one &quot;intelligence.&quot; differ but before I do, Yes. About personality--This morning was, and [inaudible] It's a good question. took--just took a personality He was accepted into Slytherin, I'm hip to that [laughter] one. high &quot;G,&quot; and you wanted to be How do we know you didn't work You're going to get these and the personality business and one of the tests bosses.&quot; No. there. avoid that problem? so in certain clever ways. there are often catch questions Some of these questions pose you might have a question in anything I am ashamed of.&quot; &quot;Yes, that's true of me,&quot; but And so, unrealistic questions Also, you get the same question the one hundred items and they figure these things out. the pudding. a test is determined, does at predicting your future real world performance. fooled--easily tricked by smart a personality test. a pretty good test because it Yes. [inaudible] It's a good question. &quot;Emotional IQ,&quot; which is touch upon a little bit later in but people have talked about And emotional intelligence, is arguably a candidate for domains. power is not as strong as for right. better predictor but one, that yet. some very interesting research along those lines. intelligence is actually related intelligence. lot. but that's a good point and I'd bit later on in the course. Student: Professor Paul Bloom: How do you determine when--what And again, it's a real art to do that but the broad answers validity. today and I test you tomorrow It's a really good test if your grades or, if it's a personality predicts how many girlfriends people think you're a nice guy. replicability of the test over to real world phenomena. Why do we know the Batman, Hulk test is a bad one? what I--how I score on that test about me. grades. well I'm liked. useful? with other things like grades. Student: Professor Paul Bloom: The question is--When I'm defining it in terms of time. which is a good one, over time?&quot; And the answer is &quot;yeah.&quot; change over time. a ten-year-old will relate but individual when he's fifty. we know that the psychological thing as personality and it is It's supported by the fact that you'll likely be an extrovert Not perfectly, so you're right. You could become an introvert, extrovert, but wherever you related to where you'll be in And that justifies talking Same with IQ. It might go up, but it won't go up and go down makes sense to talk about stable trait. Why are we different? of two things: environment, your nature and your heredity and your And this doesn't say anything. question. genes and the role of differences is an interesting different ways. have to clear up a common I'm going to talk about the to talk about heredity but I I am talking about the role of environment in explaining human human characteristics. interested in the amount of differences, individual's trait that's due to So for instance, The question of--When we ask what's the role of heredity in the question is not asking for genes in determining how tall It's not clear that's even a The question is there's a and me and him and her. difference? heredity doesn't mean the same genes. meaning the differences between tall they are is due in large not entirely, genes. people have? have from zero, very heritable at all because and people who have fewer than or both legs in an accident. So, of course, a very genetic matter but the not usually genetic. about differences, any specific trait. heredity, which is genetic--Now, environment. environment into two sorts of One is shared environment. extent to which the differences phenomena that people raised in So if one--Suppose some of you And suppose we want to say part environment. because you have lousy parents. shared environment because the same household would have This is contrasted with which is everything else. because when you were five years you and it bounced off your That's non-shared environment. you won the lottery when you money messed you up. environment. heredity, shared environment and and this equals one. Non-shared environment is a that includes everything that's environment. neurotic because aliens from the brain. Well, that would be non-shared presumably, not necessarily Everything else is non-shared It becomes interesting to ask, the physical differences like but psychological differences intelligence, what's genetic and what's This proves to be really because in the real world it's environments. different personalities. Well, we were raised by different genes. me might share all sorts of same parents and the same genes, So how do we tell what's So to do--to pull these things You need to use the tools of And to use these tools you have about genes and about One thing is this. Monozygotic twins are genetic They share one hundred percent That's kind of interesting. They share fifty/fifty. siblings. special genetic overlap. beyond randomness. rather interesting particularly definition two people raised in parents have one hundred percent So now, we can start to answer Suppose you find that similar than dizygotic twins. there's a large role of genes in interested in. because there are other factors For instance, alike than dizygotic twins and and--they have more similar similarity in appearance. similar as dizygotic twins? that extra overlap in genes And so, it would suggest a low Are adopted children highly sisters? of shared environment. and there are seven of them, adopt three kids and then at the each have an IQ of 104. do this over and over again That would suggest that there's being raised by me that gives On the other hand, had no relationship to those of it would suggest that being really on your IQ. A separate--A second--A final that psychologists love, apart. because you have these people raised in different families. similar this suggests it's a And in fact, findings in behavioral &quot;Separated at Birth, Accidentally.&quot; with the same device. findings from behavioral twins reared apart are. attitudes to the death penalty, music. behavior in crime, They often have been found to They meet after being separated thirty and then it turns out of trouble because they pretend There was one pair of twins who were known as the &quot;Giggle would always giggle, every moment even though it they weren't raised together. the brain scans of identical their brains are so similar in brain is who. brain from a brain scan and my from a brain scan. identical twin it would be very whose even if we had no So, this leads to two behavioral genetics. There is high heritability for For intelligence, for how happy you are, for your political orientation, orientation, there is high There's a high effect of genes Now, that's actually not the tell you. controversial thing I want to gets discussed and has a good This suggests that individual a group have genetic causes. differences are largely the So, we know that there are among American racial groups, African Americans, There's clear and reliable IQ other differences. these groups are partially And what this means is that group it's not entirely makeup. decisions. a Jew, for instance, factors but also on factors such orthodox and whether you--so child of a Jewish man and a Similarly, categories like Asian often overlap broad don't make fully coherent At the same time though, differences across human groups vulnerability to disease. vulnerable to Tay-Sachs. have this sort of genetic there is some sort of reality to So, you have to ask the to what extent does the high that there has to be a heritable And the answer is &quot;not at all.&quot; that there's no genetic differences. of the phenomena differences does not mean that genetic--sorry, differences. Richard Lewontin, where he imagines two plots wheat, each one has a set of seeds They're over there. Anyway, one of them you The other one you fertilize a Now, within each plot how much largely determined by the And so, you'd find high seeds. groups has no genetic cause at It's caused by which groups you Here's another way to do the Suppose from the middle down I hate you, I really hate all so I make up two Midterms. there were two Midterms. savagely hard. end of class to do it. &quot;Which is bigger, [laughter] you all to succeed. groups, you guys and you guys. are going to do better than The explanation for that might genes. environment, how much you study, that. will do better on the hard test some better on the easy test But how do we explain the group Well, it has nothing to do with The group difference, worse than you, give. is that there is a logical within-group difference, and a difference between group and this group. that just shows they're not the of the matter? differences between different Again, the textbook has a good to give two reasons from the differences are at least to a environmental and not genetic One is that the differences we better to socially defined groups. groups defined in terms of how think about you as opposed to And to the extent that turns that a genetic explanation is differences. IQ can differ radically without And the most dramatic evidence The Flynn effect is one of the The Flynn effect is the finding smarter. than your parents if--and the IQ Here is why they hide that. always make 100 the average. &quot;Dad, Dad, I just did an IQ I got 120.&quot; &quot;Good work, Son. but what neither of you much harder. they had to make the test And this is plotted by the One of these lines is American I don't know which is which but who would have--that if you in your average person in 1980 test. your person who's average now twenty years, he would do much better than Nobody knows why people are different theories of this. well, wait until you see your But what this illustrates is over the span of a few decades genetic change. possibility, in fact, that the differences we find in existing human groups, environmental effects that have Okay. claim though, almost everything. Almost everything that's not environments. suggest that shared environment When it comes to personality or an adopted child is no more or she is to a stranger. the IQ correlation in are raised in the same family is Suppose the Bloom family all kid. him as a baby. twenty-year-old. Answer? of the Bloom family who are at all. implications of it, Newsweek, when they put in their title the And the question--And the issue environment. not affect your intelligence or how your parents raised you does intelligence or your This isn't to say your parents intelligence and personality. on your intelligence and your actually. moment of conception. they played very little role in The case for this which cover came up in a controversial The Nurture Assumption &quot;Why Parents Turn--Why Children Parents Matter Less than You Judith Harris has had an She was kicked out of graduate she wouldn't amount to much. saying that she was not going to department chair, In 1997, she won the George accomplishments. took as a starting point, a famous poem by the poet have probably heard this. They fuck you up, They may not mean to but they They fill you with the faults for you. the last bit of the poem, man. Get out as early as you can and It's beautiful. Harris wrote a rebuttal: tooth to hear your child make It isn't fair. He's fucked up, [laughter] debates never end, Oliver James, The Nurture Assumption, called They Fuck You Up. Now, how do you tell your &quot;I wrote a book.&quot; &quot;Can't tell you.&quot; If you're paying attention, You must be thinking of course shared environment. effect. parents. this is true. between parent and child for If your parents read a lot and house, you will become a reader. you will be religious. Clyde, you will be a young thug. If your parents are poor, If your parents are brilliant, No doubt at all. correlation. correlation could be explained Everybody thinks it's because affects their kids. they read to their kids, but another possibility, that almost always parents kids. parents who are it's the child who is affecting not vice versa, these different possibilities, about a study. fascinating study. it was a study shown meals help teens avoid smoking, It involved a phone up teenagers and their parents teenager. &quot;Yes.&quot; parents?&quot; And they take it off--and then find that the kids who are the parents, I like this study because I my career a thousand studies and done [laughter] And it's almost--We could what's wrong with this study. It is possible that they are It is actually evidence against it - that makes them into good, non-drinking kids. possible it's the other way If little Johnny is kind of--is cavorting with prostitutes and he's not going to come home for It's the other way around. he might be more likely to have So, the direction--It might make good kids but rather good they have nothing better to do [laughter] good families and bad families. drug-free kids and a family A bad family is likely to have [laughter] effect of that. with the family meal. They didn't factor out age so Their sample included children but let me tell you something Twelve-year-olds don't use a eat with their family. all the time and they don't eat [laughter] but the point is when you hear take something which you may be Maybe you believe that having that's good for their kids. these criticisms apply to that A bookish kid is more likely to A good family--Parents who are likely to do all sorts of good good kids besides. the so-called cycle of Yes, it's true. tend to have statistically more But maybe the causality goes Maybe if you have a kid who is likely to smack him. entirely likely, to some extent heritable. raised by the smacking parent, parent caused him--led to that kid. sit right for you and I've last year when I gave this talk this. I know my mom and dad had a That's why I'm so happy and said, &quot;That's why I'm so but either way blame it on Mom And you might think you know. stand up and you get your awards dad. and explain why you're so Dad. game.&quot; [laughter] Were you adopted? you can't even begin to have parents messed you up because if you might be a lot like your genes. parents. which is the cause and which is &quot;Mom smacked me a lot and such a rotten person.&quot; because you were rotten. I don't want to get personal these things apart. One response to Harris' book is &quot;Look. you shouldn't let this get out their children's personalities their kids nicely?&quot; You might be thinking, any effect on how your kids turn but there are answers. them because you love them. them because you want them to be You might want to be nice to good relationships with them. but I'm going to skip it and I'm reading response, very simple, easy to grade: It's a toughie so just explain Okay. and I'll see you when you get