We have one star in the solar system: the asteroids, and comets it shleps with it as is part of our family. The Sun is alone. Based on that, you might naturally think that, sure look that way by eye. But when you point a telescope at the sky, of stars travel the Universe with companions... With so many stars in the sky, some appear in space they're actually very far apart. By the 18th century astronomers were starting close together really WERE physically orbiting distinguish them from the coincidentally close are a little bit uncertain, something like are part of a binary or multiple star system. One such binary system is visible to the naked You may have seen it yourself! The star marking actually two stars, one called Mizar, and enough together that you need decent eyesight as an eye test in ancient times. Binary stars almost certainly form together, their original stellar nursery. Instead of like our Sun, there are two such dense lumps, and There are lots of different kinds of binary using a telescope they're called a VISUAL as telescopes get better stars that are closer These kinds of stars are fairly common; the a visual binary. It's a luminous blue star a smaller, much fainter white dwarf. It's white dwarfs can be very hot and energetic, normal stars. When you observe Sirius with far the brighter of the two! Visual binaries are important, because, if able to see their orbital motion. If we can actual size and shape of their orbits can and physics of gravity --this can be used way we know to get accurate measurements of And once we know the masses of the stars, else about them: How big they are, how brightly no exaggeration to say that observing binary astroPHYSICS, applying physics to astronomy... we do about the Universe today. Not bad. Not all binaries are visual binaries, though. we can't split them even with our biggest Spectroscopy! As the two stars orbit each toward us while the other circles away, and may not see that motion directly, if we take individual narrow colors, we can see the Doppler path, one undergoes a redshift as it moves moves toward us. These kinds of stars are Remember Mizar and Alcor, the Big Dipper eye but I lied. Well, I understated. In even a actually a visual binary... but it turns out are actually SPECTROSCOPIC binaries, too. Alcor is a spectroscopic binary, too! Since out they make up a sextuple star system, SIX Obviously, stars can be in bigger groups than and more. Polaris, the north star, is actually It's possible lots of stars are born in to get a stable system like that; if the orbits tend to get ejected from the system. What got things just right. Even then, they may Was the Sun born in such a multiple system? and one way to find out would be to look for as the Sun. But the Sun was born billions born with it to wander off. Even at relatively and for all we know they could be 50,000 light If there are long lost siblings to the Sun Just like planets orbiting the Sun, binary stars, separated by tens or hundreds of billions each other, while some are so close they may bizarre I know of, is called 4U 1820-30, and dwarf. Their gravity is so strong, and they other in 685 seconds... 11.4 minutes... roughly, Like exoplanets, binary star orbits are tipped Earth. But for some of them, we see their binaries that means that every orbit we see blocking it from our view. We call these ECLIPSING Eclipsing binaries are interesting, because we see from the system dips, just like in Over the course of one orbit we see TWO such and then half an orbit later when the second If the two stars are similar, say both like But if one star is much brighter than the The brighter star dominates the total light the brighter star, the light hardly drops the brighter one, we see a bigger dip in the By carefully examining the sizes and shapes information can be gleaned from the system, temperatures of the stars, the size and shape Some stars, like humans, enjoy cuddling. They binaries, literally two stars touching each stars can be stretched out into teardrop shapes together they merge into a double-lobed stellar peanut This can make things really weird for them. a few millions kilometers apart, tightly orbiting of the Sun (so it's a hot blue star), and The red dwarf doesn't do much. It just slowly The bigger star, though, goes through its It blows off a wind of matter and loses mass. masses, as the big star loses mass the orbits But when the massive star swells, it gets lot of the material leaving the higher mass to grow. Eventually, the big star loses most what USED to be the lower mass star has grown, star! It's a bit like Robin Hood taking gets too enthusiastic about it then the poor When we look at that binary system, we see than a high mass one, the opposite of what after the contact binary star Algol in Perseus Mass transfer between two stars can yield system a couple of billion years later. The and is a dense white dwarf. The other star swells into a red giant. This material then White dwarfs have cruelly strong gravity. up enough, the gravity can squeeze it so hard just right, it piles up on the white dwarf flash, erupting in a huge explosive flare. violent, tens of thousands of times brighter When this happens, a previously invisible the sky. These have been seen historically, star". I love the irony: These stars actually to go nova! But the name stuck. The explosion can blow out the stream of matter settle down after a few weeks or month, the and the whole cycle repeats. These are called If the matter stream is slower, the material never explodes. However, the mass of the white of around 1.4 times that of the Sun, it gets its temperature soars upward. It gets so hot And that a big problem. In a normal star, energy being generated. But a white dwarf pressure. The extra energy just goes into runaway thermonuclear event: All the carbon AT ONCE. ALL of it. Basically a solar mass of carbon will instantly It's like setting fire to a dynamite factory. You get a SUPERnova. And it's a completely high-mass star explodes, but coincidentally The star tears itself to vapor, and gets so bright it can Ooh, this makes them very, very important Today you learned double stars are stars that if they're gravitationally bound together actually part of binary or multiple systems. actually touch other, merging into one peanut-shaped from one star to the other, changing the way can cause periodic explosions, and possibly Crash Course Astronomy is produced in association YouTube channel to catch even more awesome Plait. The script was edited by Blake de Pastino, It was directed by Nicholas Jenkins, edited Aranda, and the graphics team is Thought Cafe.