- All right. We are back and I'm here of Barlow &amp; Bear. They're the creators of the We didn't talk about that I don't remember talking about Barlow &amp; Bear. - It just worked. - It works well. I would, yes. You could see it on everything, Next week, Broadway When Talia Suskauer takes center stage as Elphaba in &quot;Wicked&quot;. It's a role made famous by Idina Menzel. Talia was so stoked when she decided to surprise her vocal coach with the news in a video that's since gone viral and you'll see why, take a look. - [Talia] I'm gonna be - Whoa, whoa. Whoa, golly I told you when you were 12. - I know you did. - Oh my God. I'm so happy for you. - Thank you. You're gonna have to come to New York. - Oh, I will now, for sure. - I love that. After that video, we had to bring them on. Please welcome Talia Suskauer, and her vocal coach, Craig Wick. Now give it up! (audience cheering) - I love that video, meet the girls. - I'm huge fans of you all. - Congratulations. - We'll be seeing you. - It's a very musical show thus far. Yes. I love this. Well, congrats on the new role. It's kind of a new role. I mean, you've been in but it's now you're on - Yes. Yeah, which is wild. I mean, this is really a I saw the show when I was nine, - [Kelly] Oh my God. - on Broadway. That's how long the show's been around. I was always into musical theater, and always very theatrically inclined, and started taking voice Craig Wick. - Way to go Craig! (audience cheering) - And when I was like 12 years old, we started singing the and he told me you're gonna do this role on Broadway someday. - Oh wow. - And I kind of held and with a lot of hard work, went to college musical theater, and started playing the role on the national tour of &quot;Wicked&quot;, summer of 2019. And obviously we had a - Some things happened. - Some things happened and - Life shut down - Life shut down, and yeah. - So you were surprised, cuz you kind of knew she - Well, Talia came to they they're pressing the voice and we had to take the pressure off. Get her to develop flow foundation, and what happened was she had this phenomenal operatic voice, which most people don't understand. She could be an operatic star at The Met. - Those are the best singers - Yeah, then once you then you just adjust So she took two, it belt third and fourth harmonic. So she figured that out, and she was brilliant. And we did a define gravity and I just looked at her, my jaw dropped. I said you were going to do I knew, I knew it. I've told the story to many And I knew it. She knew it, you know? - I love that. Well y'all have seen &quot;Wicked&quot;, obviously. - Oh my yeah. - Well, I don't know you (all laughing) - Maybe you're a little - Oh, don't come for us. - Barlow &amp; Bear, I see you down there. I don't mean, that was amazing That was well, I am not the only one who's totally moved by Talia's video. There's someone backstage who on her Broadway debut. So will that person come out? (upbeat music) (audience cheering and clapping) - Oh my God. - You're beautiful. - You're such a good teacher. - I just missed you at the couple weeks. - I'll come back, I'll come back. - Please. - I know I brought all boys to the show. And you missed that. I'm so happy for you. And the advice that I would give or that Kelly might give wear the black opaque tights underneath. - You got it. - Just in case you're and someone makes you and you pee in your pants. It sops it up really good. And then you can just go - Can I just say the amount of times I have like sung to you in my car? It's just like, it's crazy. - I'm just gonna hang out with you. I love that her whole like a whole, no stay turned, stay turned, you have your moment, ma'am. You stay turned, I'm just gonna come join you. Cuz Chris is like, you're out there on an island. - I was like, no, I gotta say, I gotta ask her. Do you remember your first time? Like when you heard you got the role. - Oh my God, yeah. - And you didn't actually know yeah, I didn't even mean to do it. You didn't actually even know to face that way. No, I was messing with you. I was messing with you. No, do you remember that moment, you know? Cause you didn't know You didn't know what was going on. - Oh my God, I yeah, no, it was incredible. We didn't know what it was going to be. It was different. But I just remember auditioning, and working on it with who was my best friend and I and I just knew, I said, this is something it just made me wanna cry And then when I got it, I just I felt like, yeah, it was you just know when you're You don't know how big it it's gonna be or whatever, but yeah. I'm so just glad that you're here, and you're going to extend, - You know, you know what, it's such a big role, right? Do you ever, do you feel pressure? There's been some Elphaba's, right? Do you ever feel that pressure or you know what you should, - Do you feel like you have - Well, what I actually of all of the women that - Optimism, I like you. - It's true, cause I you know people are coming to the theater, they're expecting you know, and I'm never gonna be this but I can be me and I of all these incredible women and bring their unique strength to this. It's just incredible, so yeah. - Yeah. Ah, empty chairs, empty table. See, it's another big song for that one. So &quot;Wicked&quot; is playing in New York City. If you haven't seen it yet, shame on you you should go see it. It is so amazing. You can see Talia Suskauer in the role of Elphaba, starting May 24.