The Knight's journey into Hallownest This is fitting because the whole game deals and further downward, through strange and unlikely allies until shrouded in the depths of Hallownest. It's like Hornet's journey into Pharloom begins much cliff. However, instead of descending down, way to the top of Pharloom and defeating the big really know who the big baddie is, and we don't So in this video, we're going to take a leisurely so far. From the lush greens of the Moss Grotto to be Maine, we'll keep our eyes peeled for And by the end, we'll have nice little map all my last video, about 10 seconds of extra Man, that already feels like so long ago. Of course, we're trying to solve a so our chances of actually getting things that's never stopped me before. I once Before Hornet falls off that cliff in the entrance to Pharloom. There are large, opulent, dinky bridge. I guess Pharloom couldn't On the opposite side of the path, we From this location, there's a chasm that runs the Moss Grotto, an area we saw extensively in area appears to be like the King's Pass portion An important thing to note about this area are in the game so far. Obviously, they're tied to pretty big role in the events of Hollow Knight. but there's still a lot of mystery surrounding their old home, and I think it's a safe bet to say In Silksong, Hornet can find Weavers throughout but it's weird to see two of these gates So perhaps there's something Or the areas as shown in the demo don't actually At the end of this portion of the demo we until she collapses from what I assume is figure teaches Hornet how to play her needolin. instrument will serve in Silksong. We see some but we have yet to see Hornet opening any doors characters, so maybe she can learn different unlocking new dialogue and quests, sorta like What's interesting about the Moss Grotto of areas that look like the Moss Grotto that we interview from December 2020 gives us quite a The Druid of the Moss Temple is described as being These shots shown in the reveal trailer look like We also get a clip and a screenshot We can see for a brief second that this region so I assume it might be some sort of subarea. or the Overgrown Village for that matter, connect they are a bit higher up, since I doubt we'd From the Moss Grotto, Hornet which serves as the entrance to the which is the bell tunnel system that sorta like bone marrow? I don't know if that was she'll find the Bell Beast tied up in silk, As Hornet travels further into the Boneforest who might also be a boss fight, maybe, have a boss encounter near here with this hermit There seems to be tiers of these black ball and skulls throughout Pharloom. Yup, black They're really cute looking. I can't wait Hornet also meets a character named Sherma, who is a little jingle. On the other side of this door According to the Edge magazine interview, Hornet will also discover a Weaver Perhaps the chamber looks We do see a few shots of Hornet standing in This weaver gives Hornet the Silk Spear, trapped in the Marrow. This leads to a boss fight before the player can get out into the Bell Beast, she actually runs away, meaning Hornet After this, Hornet will find a bell that she can Structures like this will appearly and we even see a structure just like it at the This musical progression gives a sense of closure, making it an appropriate way to end a to the main motif we've heard hidden right? This is heard several times throughout It also plays after Hornet defeats a boss. And a lower pitched version of it can This phrase, which is sometimes gives off a sense of foreboding danger. The Last Judgment of God, and the theme used to making it a fitting theme for Citadel I'm guessing we'll be hearing it plenty The Edge magazine interview ends with Hornet met Shakra earlier. There isn't much to go other than these metallic walls found in the bronze-like structure of the because it seems like the Deep Docks are There are even several sections that into Deep Docks. We know that the Deep Docks Nintendo Life Treehouse event. There's this this long ass platform with literally zero on the outside of the Docks. Of course, we've seen but we do get one clip of footage from The Deep Docks are our first real good look at In Hollow Knight, the miner bugs in the Crystal like the bugs of the Deep Dock are a bit more According to the lore tablet found here, the and even pay fealty to the toll of some There are even a few friendly NPCs here, including upgrade Hornet's tools. In Hollow Knight, bugs as long as they had strong wills, but it's Pharloom hostile or friendly. When enemies and on death we see what might be So it seems like silk is like the infection zombies, the bugs are being instructed and this raises the question of how some NPCs don't At the end of the Deep Docks, we encounter Lace who says the iconic line "BLANK Lace taunts Hornet about the fate she would by murdering her. So it seems Lace is not aligned This lines up with the fact that we see Lace awfully similar to the one that broke the Seal of So Lace might be working with some other faction a mysterious shrine dedicated to another giant This is where the Deep Dock demo I should mention this scene with the giant The area looks more like the Boneforest looks like it belongs in the Deep Docks, so I'm So what comes after the Deep we can see moss growing on the right side of trailer shot we also see Hornet walking into a to be a bell shrine. So the Deep Docks might and another, more regular boneless forest, This forest is crawling with ant enemies is located somewhere in the more lava rich which means these two areas probably aren't Hunter Queen Carmalita. The ants seem like Except ants are little assholes so I doubt This forest region is also If I had to guess, this guy is dressing which is an insanely common phenomenon in real It also appears that the Huntress Other than that, when Hornet first enters the It's not clear what city this is supposed to be, so I'm guessing it's a city Anyways, we have one teeny tiny lead In this region of Pharloom we see these green see these same vines growing in a dark section connection here, and it's our only lead right now. bottom of Greymoor, which according to Team Greymoor can be broken down into a few subareas. gravestones and distant towers and windmills with tight hallways and large, open rooms. There kind. And of course there's this dank basement From Team Cherry's blog posts, it is explained and that the place is infested with Dustroaches. Despite that, we do catch glimpses of what I've mentioned before that these objects seem to This area in Greymoor is also filled and we can see several empty spools discarded all see stacks upon stacks of these spools. So these The only spools we ever see that actually have of this cropped screenshot from a Team Cherry are related to the windmills we see. They use spools or their silk are possibly transported up want of silk, since it's what they desire from And the whole capturing Hornet thing might Another strange section of Greymoor is this boss was some kind of chef, cooking some kind of made a very interesting connection between Strap in, boys, cuz we're about Candle wax can be made by rendering fat in a big above. We can see what appears to be a vat stored would serve as a source of fat. This would also apron. And it would even explain where all these That said, this could just be a repeat of what we in the City of Tears. But the candle theory There's one room in Greymoor that gives us This room appears to lead left into this other than it seems Hornet can unlock a series But we don't know exactly where this leads. This city reminds me of the Marrow, the pile of through throughout the game. But we also know Hornet can actually traverse through. Perhaps the I've been going through Pharloom fairly linearly will be multiple routes through the world. In the game Hornet "may" pass through Greymoor. and you apparently don't even have to go through Knight, you'll know how many different routes areas can be completely skipped. And I'm sure Regardless, we actually have This swamp-like region appears to This region of Pharloom is extremely First of all, this appears to be where the player "Base of the Citadel" where he guards a hidden interested in as well. Seth believes he has been We don't know what Seth is protecting, but the Citadel is covered in tangled roots, and strange white flowers growing naturally. These given that they appear prominently during patterns also appear frequently in the a connection here, and it's a connection Another interesting detail in the Citadel base ceiling. This tells us that whatever plant is quite encompassing. I'm not quite sure if multiple plants or one big one, but they appear Citadel covets these flowers, and perhaps they This would reinforce how eating up natural resources to fuel their society. out. That could explain why we see an unending It seems like this overgrown temple is The more muted colors match this area better than floating flower petals in this boss fight Finally, all the vines located here are entrance of Pharloom, so it seems the base of the But if that were the case, why do pilgrims in places like the Boneforest? Maybe Now this is complete speculation on my part, but can find this elevator up to the Citadel. It is elevator crashing back down at some point. This of the Citadel before being locked off from it, or And we're pretty much out of leads at this point. We were able to connect quite a few of stragglers left before we reach the Citadel, so We've got the barnacle area, the coral forest, the Last Judge boss arena, the room with Trobbio, and I'm going to place the barnacle area above in Greymoor. This is probably wrong but it's there's also rain in the barnacle area, and There's the coral forest, but this area at all. It's kinda like Fog Canyon where it That said, it's really our best bet so... I'm This might be controversial, but I'm the desert region of Pharloom, as I think This room shares architecture with what we see in This might be a mini-dungeon where Hornet can We don't really know anything about the some resemblance to these three enemies shown are described as the former tenders of a it appears that one of them can be seen in what similarity in design to the Last Judge might imply Dusty. Desert. I dunno, it's kinda similar. As a side note, maybe these three characters because he was stupid or ugly or something, I think Grindle is in the same facility as As for where the desert is as a whole, I'm going it's somewhere on the outskirts of the Kingdom, so These last three rooms I think are somewhere the lower parts of the Citadel at this point, Citadel. This is what I'm going to call the Gilded These areas might be in completely different for now. This is where we can see a few more Smokerock and Sweetsmelt brought up from Waste is discarded into And finally, there's the room with Trobbio, In this room, we see what appears to be The two main indicators of this are the winding pipes. So this is possibly representative In this model, we can actually see a few tall what these towers are, but one possibility is that few times. This clocktower is probably the driving the tolls mentioned all the way down in the drop down into the underpart of the Citadel, From this model, we also get a clear view of These things are everywhere in the Citadel, and apparently they all converge at the very top. This leads us to our final shot, the Lace fight. Now given the sheer amount of pipes in the place where all the pipes converge, but if Wouldn't it be close to whatever the light this is closer to the base of the Citadel, with Regardless of where the Lace fight takes place, we at the peak of Pharloom rests this giant ball, a It looks like a giant wound up ball of silk To me, this symbolizes the control of silk But there's something the Citadel is up to that These things are so weird. What's inside them? Why Cherry change this scene between the two trailers Clearly there's something between the top of these pipes help transfer. So... maybe it's silk? threads extend all the way down to the various start from the center and move outwards would be a Here's another idea I originally heard from vague similarity to something else we've seen in Deepnest. This contraption also has pipes coming for Deepnest's dead king. Or maybe it's hiding Beast's Den. All that said, it doesn't really help two are related somehow. And the coming reveal Another connection we can make with these pipes the base of the Citadel, yet we see them here in the pipe. If we assume the Lace fight is at the all the way up here? So perhaps the vines also extend through the Citadel up to the top suggested by Arch_Imedes, and he thinks that from the bugs of the Citadel, relating back to the poem shown off at the start of the and it seems pretty likely that these flowers will So there's a lot going on here. You've got the weapons for cutting and controlling silk. You've There's the Conductor Romino, who... we don't even know what's creating the What is that all about? Lots and lots But the point of this video wasn't to We're just trying to draw a map of Pharloom, and here it is. I can't wait to explore every inch to its round head. This potential map for Silksong this map already looks so familiar to me, even I've been seeing this map everywhere for years and