Are you ready to read an article from the BBC it's a great way to learn advanced vocabulary, and natural pronunciation in a really fun right until the end because I'm going to read can practice along with your pronunciation and the PDF of the lesson that we reviewed Of course I'm Jennifer and this is your place Let's get started. Welcome to our article. You Smith and Chris Rock. Let me read the headline of to slap Chris Rock at the Oscars. So this is very is a slap. It's a verb: to slap. It's very commonly however, you could slap a mosquito or a use it in other contexts but more commonly Okay, let me explain this because I believe bottled rage. So &quot;rage&quot; of course is an emotion. It that's rage. Now, what does bottled rage mean? Bottled. Imagine, here we have a bottle right and the water is in the bottle and it can't get out anger, jealousy, hatred, generally a negative and can't get out. Just like the water can't an emotion and you do not express it. You keep jealousy, hatred inside of you, eventually it can slap someone. Let's continue on. Will Smith has Chris Rock. Here's our comedian Chris Rock interviewed for the first time since the incident Horrific, this is a great adjective. A lot of good or bad, because it's the ones they know. But English sound more advanced and will give you more So this is a very very, very bad night. That's So if somebody asks you, how was your day, you very bad. Or you can describe an event that I saw Will Smith slap Chris Rock, that was day. All right. Let's move on. Appearing on The through something that night, you know. Now, our &quot;he&quot; story. &quot;He&quot;, unless said otherwise, is Will Smith. I through something that night, you know. So when he slapped the comedian Chris Rock. That To go through something. This is an expression difficult in our lives. And we use this more as to specify what it is. So when somebody asks say: I'm going through a lot right now. I'm going But it lets the person know you're experiencing say: well what? Tell me more. And then you can say: got sick. So you can list the difficult things in What's wrong? I'm going through a lot right now. our verb: to be. So, our sorry, not our verb to going to conjugate. Now here it's in the past going. And here it's in the Present Continuous: I'm going. right now. Not that that justifies my behavior experiencing something difficult, that's not it's an excuse. It says it's okay that I slapped saying that doesn't justify it. That's not an But remember they're using it in the negative. It's not an excuse. Smith added that there but added: I just, I lost it. I lost What do you think that &quot;it&quot; is? I lost it. What When we use this in a general sense: I lost is: he slapped someone. I know that &quot;it&quot; means his his actions. I lost it. So we use this in So maybe you're in this meeting, and your coworker lost it. What do you mean you couldn't finish the really angry. You lose control of your emotions, Maybe the bottled, the bottled emotion, So I lost it. This is an expression. Hopefully you positive expression. So to lose it. This means to as well because you might just start yelling to. You feel really bad after, but in that moment, Smith stormed the stage at the Hollywood award wife Jada's shaved head. That's kind of a tongue Now notice how in the article they explain common condition. They explain it's a hair loss women because men unfortunately, lose their hair. To be bald. This describes a man with no But we don't usually associate that with lose their hair. It's called alopecia. Now In the, in this case, the apostrophe S is used The wife belongs to Smith. To Will Smith. And then name Jada. Now but the shaved head belongs to The shaved head belongs to Jada. And shaved head is rid of all your hair. That would be a shaved head. So he would go like this and then the hair is very very common for men but not that common for joke about Will Smith's wife's shaved head. So shaved Hurt people hurt people. I understand how Noah is the TV show host. Remember he went, Will Noah. So Will Smith is saying this to the TV was for people. So: shocking. This is a great That is shocking. What? So when you receive your job! What? But shocking is generally used in more of a positive. You just got engaged. which is, can be a more positive emotion. But as shocking, there's a negative emotion in there. what the audience did. They would have I was gone. That was a rage that had been that emotion it's inside and you're not letting So because we've seen this a few times, we do You shouldn't bottle your emotions. Sometimes a phrasal verb: to bottle up. You shouldn't you shouldn't keep your emotions them. So to express your emotion Hey, you hurt my feelings today. Or: I felt inside of you and not expressing it. Bottling the pain he had caused and recalled the reaction Smith's nine year old nephew watched the award and the reaction is when you go: oh, and that's the describes a boy. It's used for males and it's Your sibling's male child, it has to be for a child belongs to your sibling. And sibling is your can be for brother or sister. It does not matter. child of your sibling. Now we have a separate word Your sibling's female child. This is niece. Niece. So you might have a niece and a He's the sweetest little boy, Smith said. We came Will and we're sitting in my kitchen and he's just like, Why did you hit that man uncle Will. Now &quot;hit&quot; can be &quot;a slap&quot;. It's the same thing. When I slap someone, I also hit them. It's the is also hit. But this is also called a punch. So you have a slap, you have a So we have, I'll just write the ones I shared. I don't necessarily like teaching these violent you'll see them on movies and stuff. Slap. And It was a mess. A mess. So to describe something Well imagine your room. You might know this a mess. There are things everywhere. use this to describe a situation that That's how I would describe it. &quot;It&quot; being the incident at the Oscars when he slapped someone, ideal. Opposite of ideal, which is a good situation, meeting was a mess, which describes the meeting but you would have to ask me what happened because term to see that something negative happened. But then you could explain the client lost it when we talked about &quot;to lose it&quot;. The client cannot do you mean you're over budget This is the meeting was a mess. You can also use My Kitchen is a mess. Now in this case, it's the definition of when you describe a room. A room The Late Night US TV talk show was the first time Smith told Noah he understood the often Discussing the background to his Oscars things. It was the little boy that watched all of that just bubbled up in the moment. That's means to violently attack someone. So it has a talking about a father violently attacking a And you can do that obviously by hitting someone, attack. Now notice it's a phrasal verb: to beat with the verb &quot;beat&quot; which you conjugate. And then Think back to our, when our emotions were bottled Now imagine this is a fizzy drink, like Coca Cola and that's Coke, when I open this, what's going to is going to explode. That is the meaning of &quot;bubble up&quot;. then they bubble up. They all come to the surface All of that just bubbled up. In that moment. And notice &quot;bubble up&quot; is also preposition. That's not who I want to be. has opened up before about So an abusive home. This is a home where you father beat up his mother. Or he also could have his father also beat him up. That is what we would a lot of students know this, or know how to use this. it's a phrasal verb. You need the verb &quot;grow&quot;. And or you can grow up in a specific city, that means were a child and then you became older and older I live in Florida now but I grew up in Texas. So was a child. And when I was becoming an adult, Now remember our verb is &quot;grow&quot;. So this is in the preposition. Now the last thing I will share So &quot;to open up about something&quot; about a negative or simply a So Will Smith is saying he bottled up his emotions. decided to open up. He decided to share that friends. Maybe he told some, a therapist even, or he experienced as a child. So he shared that personal verb. So now you have a lot of new vocabulary from start to finish so you can focus on the Will Smith says bottled rage led him to slap his bottled rage led him to slap comedian Chris has been interviewed for the first time since night. Appearing on The Daily Show with Trevor that night, you know? Not that that justifies many nuances and complexities to it. But added, Hollywood award ceremony after Rock made a joke a hair loss condition alopecia. Hurt people hurt people, he told Noah. I was gone. That was a range He said he also understood the pain he had caused nephew that night. He's the sweetest little boy, to see his uncle Will and we're sitting in the Oscar. And he's just like, Why did you hit that on The Late Night US TV talk show was the first the attack. Smith told Noah he understood the Discussing the background to his Oscars things. It was the little boy that watched All of that just bubbled up in that Smith has opened up before about growing up in Now I've left the link to the PDF where you structure, the grammar, right in the description. you'll see the link. And if you found this video with your friends and of course subscribe. to my website JForrest English.com and download six tips on how to speak English fluently and