I'm here at the Navy's This is the biggest wave pool in the world and they can make all so they can test scale before they actually go I came in and I'd seen some pictures, but I just walked in here 'Cause they say indoor ocean, but it's exactly what it is. The water even looks ocean colored. (laughing) It doesn't look like a swimming pool, this looks like an ocean, It is huge. - It is 360 feet long in this dimension, 240 feet long in that dimension. It's 20 feet deep. Just about the size of a The dome above us was the for a while. - [Derek] Largest free - Yep. - What? (Miguel laughs) In this pool they can make using huge paddles that - We have 216 individual wave makers. We can make waves from -45 which is kind of coming right back at it. - We are now behind the big These 216 paddles are programmed to move in incredibly well choreographed ways so that they can produce reproducible, perfect sized, perfect frequency waves that go across the entire pool. - You can see these air bellows that are what's making the angular motion. That vertical piece is The other force transducer's - [Derek] There are lots but what makes this one You can create waves of a and do so repeatedly. Can we try a one Hertz? - [Miguel] Yeah. Do me a - [Operator] Amplitude - Okay, go ahead and And so this is the largest That's based on the motion for the wave maker. - [Derek] There's something a bit surreal about watching this, 'cause it almost looks like an ocean except you never see waves - [Miguel] Yeah, correct. - One of the fundamental characteristics of a wave is its wavelength, the distance from one crest to the next. The first thing most people learn about waves is they transmit energy rather than material from In this case, as the wave the water molecules themselves circular paths. And the deeper the water, All motion stops at a depth This is known as the wave base. But even in an ideal water wave, the molecules do drift a bit in the direction of wave motion. And this is because the the higher up they are. So they move farther at than they move backwards at the bottom, creating a spiral path. This place is perfect of different waves. I asked Miguel to show me some waves with different frequencies - So what I'll have him do now is I'll have him stop this wave 'Cause we're at .6, we'll go to .5, so it'll be a two second wave. - Here I'm split screening of .67, .5, and .33 Hertz, all with the same amplitude. So two things to notice. Even though they all the ones with higher frequency look like they have a greater amplitude because the slope of the waves is steeper. And second, the frequency High frequency waves travel In fact, as long as the water wave speed is inversely They have a really cool demo that takes advantage of different frequency waves. You can see it starting here. They send out high frequency waves first followed by lower and And because the high the lower frequency Whoa. And they've timed it so at exactly the same time and this causes the wave to break. The ocean engineers can do this again and again, in exactly the same way, thanks to their precise This demo also nicely illustrates the principle of superposition, that when waves meet they add together. The height of the water is of the individual waves You can see how much Those individual waves weren't that big, but when you add them all together, you can make this big breaking wave. They can also take advantage to create standing waves. - So what's coming up coming at each other. What we call the quilt wave. So we're gonna have a wave coming this way and a wave going this way, and it's gonna create standing waves. So there's two regular waves coming out and if you look at the wave, it looks like a big - At some places in the pool, the waves always cancel and at other places the waves They can even send waves so they form circular wave fronts and then all the wave energy they call the bullseye. - And so now we're gonna which is essentially the same thing, but instead of having a line of waves, we're having it all coalesce So you can start seeing the waves are coming from the long bank here, and you can see they're And then you have another spherical wave coming from the short bank. And this is breaking due and the wave height being more than one seventh of the wavelength. - We tried throwing some toys into the wave to see what Would they get pushed Even though there's not much the ducky drifts with the waves, and pretty quickly is How's the ducky doing? (Miguel laughs) - He's getting to the It's starting to funnel him Ooh, it's getting up, getting up. - [Miguel] Oh! (laughs) It swamped it. - [Derek] That's amazing. - That was right where we wanted it. - [Derek] Now the real is not to play with toys or It is to replicate on a small scale the types of waves Navy in the oceans of the world. Research engineers place billion dollar vessels in the water to see how different in real world conditions. - [Miguel] Right now this It's gonna be about a five which if we were to scale would be 20 foot waves. When we're doing a free we usually run a race track, like a big circle or a figure eight track, so we know the headings so that we can correlate that - [Derek] For the model to provide an accurate representation a lot of things must Is the water fresh? - Fresh water. - [Derek] Okay, not salty. - Nope. Fresh water. So when you're in salty water, you're gonna have a lot more buoyancy. So when we're balasting our models, we have to make sure that that buoyancy difference. So when we go full scale - [Derek] For fluid mechanics, I always expect that you have the same as in the real world phenomena. But actually to get the you have to use a different scaling which is based on the Froude number. So the Froude number is a measure of the ratio of inertial It's equal to the flow velocity divided by the square root of the times the characteristic length, like the length of the ship. In this case, the model ship's hull is 46 times smaller than the real thing, which means to get accurate data, it should be traveling at one times it's real world speed. And to make the footage from the model look the same as that you have to slow it down by a factor of the square root of 46. So roughly 6.8 times slower. I'm amazed at just how but of course that's the idea. Scale the model and the the waves, so the physics are out on the open ocean. Naturally, I asked if I could but they said, very kindly, &quot;No way.&quot; The closest I could get This is our boat. With a catch. It's pretty smooth sailing - (laughs) Yep. No waves - [Derek] So I'm assuming in waves? - Nope. That's one of the I guess it's a risk thing, so... - This place seems like a... I don't know Like a massive playground kind of. (Miguel laughs) - It kind of is for engineers like us where we kind of dork out on the science and what we're doing here. It's a huge volume. Like I guess I never understood until they emptied it to It's a large volume that's - [Derek] Yeah. - So as we come by, these We have a big array here. These are ultrasonic sensors, and that's how we measure wave height and period and direction in the basin. So we wanna measure that to is what we think we have. - [Derek] In this pool, they can create all sorts of different wave in different parts of the world. Most ocean waves are created by wind and the strongest winds Five factors affect the size These are the wind the distance over which which is known as the fetch, the width of the fetch, and the depth of the water. As waves travel out from a storm, the higher frequency waves dissipate their energy more quickly. So the waves that travel a long way are the fast moving low frequency waves, which are called swell. - When those waves end up like if you have it in the Pacific, eventually you'll get long So you're no longer near the storm, but it created enough and that's where you get - Tell me if this is a good analogy. I feel like with sound, a will die off quickly away from a source. - Yep. - [Derek] But the low frequencies - Correct. - So is it the same thing with the waves? It's like you're walking and you can still hear the bass, but you can't see any - That's a great analogy. Yep. - What's the deal with rogue waves? - People like to think it's a rogue wave where it just came outta No, it's usually multiple and creating an amplitude than what the self-standing wave would be. So when it meets it's gonna break, because you have this large wave creating this huge amplitude that it just can't hold it and it breaks. - [Derek] On a calm day, at the beach around 10 seconds apart, that is swell. But because of its long wavelength, swell isn't really a concern for ships out in the open ocean. - You know, if you're your ship's probably just You're more worried about the steep waves and the windy waves that are really moving you around. - [Derek] Wind waves are First, as wind blows across the surface of perfectly still water, the turbulent motion of of slightly higher and And this makes tiny ripples with wavelengths of around a centimeter. But now the wind can act on these ripples creating larger pressure differences between the front and the pulling them up into bigger waves. And the interaction of then creates even larger and even larger waves. The waves are mostly but as they interact with each other, they create a range of And as the wind keeps blowing, these waves begin breaking into swirling eddies that Once the energy dissipation matches the energy input from the wind, the waves have reached their maximum size and this is known as - [Miguel] So this is - [Derek] This is irregular? - Irregular wave, so what you saw earlier were one frequency, one amplitude. This is what we call a spectra, or multiple frequencies You can see there's higher that kind of go travel slower Those low frequency waves will and that's what's making 'em look peaky or kind of dulling it out. - [Derek] What surprised me is that the different oceans of the world have different mixtures or different spectra, depending on their geography that occur there. For example, the North Sea and have a peakier spectrum, the limited fetch of In the mid-Atlantic, a broader the developing or that you'd find there. And in the North Atlantic, the steady wind across an open ocean produces the broadest So when testing, engineers where the ship will be deployed, and which spectra best before creating them in the pool. For most people I think, But you're saying that there's sort of different conditions - The destroyer when I was in command, we did an operation off in the spring. Very rough sea keeping conditions. But then, when you're a lot of that is a lot calmer. So again, you know from there to the Arabian Gulf, all those - Were there any conditions that were particularly rough for you? - So my bed was actually and the seas were so bad, and this was either The seas were so bad that one night, I woke up in the middle of the night and my whole mattress with me on it was sliding off of my bed frame, and that's a pretty So you can imagine the Much bigger than this would terrify me. I know it probably looks benign, but... (laughs) Much bigger than this, I think that model will - Why do you care about how - So on the back of this DDG They don't want any water on the deck when a helicopter's about to land. That's a big problem. You know, that's one of is we'll put cameras to look at the deck and understand how much water washes on. - [Derek] Since I knew their fancy model in rough conditions, we brought along a little - Yeah, I wouldn't be happy on that boat. A lot of people would be getting seasick. - Whoa! (Miguel laughs) - Oh no. - [Miguel] Is it gone? - [Derek] It's gone. - [Miguel] No, it's It's upside down. (laughs) - It was totally gone. It was in the air, then it went under. Now, not all the models tested here can be remote controlled. - So on the carriage is where we're gonna do captain model tests where you can tether, put onto a model that can't hold it itself. So usually the model go in - [Derek] The models are hooked up here and then the whole lab towing the model underneath. (pensive music) (waves crashing) People have been making - Mm-hm. - Is there actually any innovation today? - Most definitely. So sometimes, you know, people say that's the And then when you look into it, there's some validity to some hair-brained ideas, And when we test them, that's why you cut your versus building the full thing and saying, &quot;Oh that didn't work.&quot; Every ship that's in the Navy's has gone through either our purview, or has been tested peripherally with us. But all of the Navy-owned ships have been tested in this facility, and there is a ship out there where if you look at this ship So this flare is usually when you start rolling, it or helps push you back. A tumble home is shaped, you And if you have a ship it doesn't have as much of a - But what is the idea with - There's a lot of different reasons why you want to change a hull design. Some of it is the above water signatures. It's all about the and there's a lot that goes into that. You always wanna be stealthier, you always want to be faster, you always wanna have more power. And that's always what - [Derek] So most of of the work that's going to support what they do. - When I was in the fleet, and I've been in the Navy 27 years, I never had any idea, certainly not the I'm not exaggerating when I say it's impacted every ship (waves crashing) (electronic zoom) - Hey, if you don't have a to test out wave physics, I suggest you check out Brilliant, the sponsor of this video. Brilliant is the best learning tool I know for mastering concepts in math, science, and computer science. All their lessons are Just check out this one on buoyancy. You can adjust the size and see whether it sinks or floats, and then you proceed through a series of increasingly challenging You know, what I love about Brilliant is that it really gets me thinking. So when I complete a lesson, I feel a sense of accomplishment because I figured it out myself. And this applies to their as well as to their more advanced topics. For example, the wave principles of superposition and interference also apply to their course which I found to be both engaging This is a great interactive which forces you to deeply that lead to interference, a concept I know a lot of Brilliant keeps supporting Veritasium I think for two reasons. First, they know that viewers and they want to understand things deeply. So, a lot of you have already signed up. And second, I know that some of you haven't given it a try yet. So I guess my question is, You can try it out for free right now by going to brilliant.org/veritasium. And finally, I wanna remind you that with you can give the gift of Brilliant to a friend or family member, that clever person in your There are courses tailored for anyone, whether beginner, And if you sign up right now, Brilliant are offering 20% off an annual premium subscription to the first 200 people to sign up. Just use my link brilliant.org/veritasium. So I wanna thank Brilliant and I wanna thank you for watching.