You know what? I forgot some. How can there be more? Is there so many people who said I was the problem? Okay. Nick Fury, Eric Solveig. Bor. Laufey Amora I mean, Jane Foster, Darcy. Lewis, Maria. Hill. But going back a few years. Fandral, Volstagg, Hogan. Heimdall. You just said that Heimdall was a big one, You can't repeat it. It's memorable, absorbing man. What about Donald Blake? They say him. Donald Blake is who Thor pretends to be Speaking of which, Hercules. Another big guy. I was a big problem for him. Welcome back everyone It's Charlie, Marvel just dropped a Loki. Deleted scene, talking about his battles with Hercules like the Enchantress. there have been a ton of you of a more of the enchanters in the MCU, Turns out, they actually did try to do her a couple times. So we'll break it all down. if you're brand new to the channel, some of the scenes were also tied For instance, the Hercules Namedrop post-credits scene, setting up a larger spinoff I'll explain what that was going to be in a second. they are going to bring this God version of Loki during the next couple of Avengers movies. So we will see him by the end of Secret Wars. For those of you asking when Loki is going to come back, Loki Season three, safest bet so they can do in Loki season The reason why they're releasing these deleted scenes now in the first place, is because they're getting ready there were a couple other deleted scenes with frog, Thor. They've already done there's so many deep cuts during this that he mentions here goes back to the original classic but the deleted scene would have come from the moment with a ton of different teams and people in the MCU You remember. That's when this version of Loki got pruned. He never experienced the events of Thor or anything after that. So he watched all those things happen So at this point, he doesn't know Loki, who died. in the deleted scene, Within talking about a bunch of his previous battles that he had messing with people as part of the mischief But he starts by mentioning Nick Fury. That's when the events of the first Avengers movie. He never directly interacted with Nick Fury Like Loki probably mess with Nick Fury, the people of Erik Solveig from both the first Thor movie But it wasn't really until the first Avengers movie met Loki in person, but he knew that Loki was behind boards Bore is Odin's father inside the MCU. We saw him in the flashbacks during Thor The Dark World, when Loki was adopted by Odin and was just yelling at him on the regular This actually changes So in the first Thor movie, adopting Loki, like finding Loki on Yoda time, By that point in, Odin had become king of Asgard but because Loki is saying that he met boar and boar that he was a big problem child, There are actually a couple other members of Loki in Thor's family And then the other big one is Balder the Brave. During the season two episodes, Loki and Mobius go to the alternate timeline When they go to the 1893 World's Fair. One of the exhibits is for Asgardian mythology, and Thor, but in this timeline they don't know about Loki they mostly use this for comedy to piss Loki off. Like, how dare they forget about me? I'm way more important than Balder the Brave. Nobody cares about him. Which is a bit of a meta reference, because they were but at the time, because this was early Marvel phase one, the general audience, like casual audiences, and Kevin would have overcomplicated the Loki in Thor story, They tried to do him again He was going to be played by Daniel Craig of all people. Like super big cameo scene like, this is what he would have looked like. He was getting ready to film the scenes, Daniel Craig apparently was really afraid of the pandemic At the very last minute, they wound up contracting fantastic Four cameo scene, Just because they did film that during the pandemic, but then changed at the last minute because they weren't during that period for instance, one of the other cameos But the reason why they didn't do because they wanted to save the character it was actually long before they'd fired Jonathan Majors Jr back as his version of Doctor Doom for Avengers when he mentions Ralphie here. That's his father on Yoda time, He basically told Loki eventually that he didn't care about him And that's one of the moments that caused Loki to care They just wanted to show you how Odin was so much better We actually did see what happens to Loki. If Luthien never abandoned him to die. Time to eventually rule over but the Frost Giant version of Loki looks way bigger? my assumption is that in this timeline, like from this universe that he came from, And I'm. when he mentions fighting a more of the Enchantress, People have been asking you about her in the MCU she's another character their minds at the last minute when they got to Loki she didn't exist in the comics before Loki season one, Harley Quinn style, when they did that, they said that her character in a more the Enchantress, because of the way when they did that and they revealed the inspirations they would never actually do a real version but because Loki is mentioning her here, closest we've actually gotten to seeing her on screen Some of you remember this way back during season one, who is a more a sister Like there is a version of a more out there somewhere. maybe, maybe we'll see her in a future magic based story. She'd also worked well during something like Agatha that they're doing in the future. when he mentions Jane Foster in Darcy, Because remember this Loki did not experience Thor The Dark World The Maria Hill name drop is also a reference back to that And there's the joke about him mentioning Heimdall twice. This is both because he messed with Heimdall on many, that he was living in Asgard. really good example of this was the D.B. Cooper scene during season one. The flashbacks explained that Loki is D.B. Cooper inside the MCU, but they would have hijacked the Bifrost to do that, He also froze Heimdall during the first Thor movie, I also think the reason he mentions Heimdall twice during is because Tom Hiddleston was actually ad libbing bunch of names super quickly off the top of his head, they mentioned fan draw Vol stag Hogan. Those are the Warriors three. the Absorbing Man fight is another super big deep cut who was a boxer. He's canon to Daredevil. He actually fought Matt Murdock's father in the boxing ring, but Loki poisoned him who gives him the powers to absorb properties of anything Absorbing Man. so part of the joke here is that you're saying Like, look at what you did to my body. Now. you know, obviously the biggest namedrop So remember, these would have gone down because we know about Loki's timeline He was with Thanos that entire time. So these are probably a bunch of ancient battles The reason why he's mentioning him during the scene, to connect with the Thor Love and Thunder post-credits that whole Thor plot with the war, the gods. And Hercules was originally meant to be very different. remember they actually filmed Thor Love and Thunder So like all the Hercules stuff was planned out before part of the idea is that that Hercules post-credits to set up a Hercules spinoff TV show for Disney Plus. This was back during the era of Marvel, like early Disney Plus era, when everybody in their sister Like, if you ever showed up in the comics so the post-credits scene wasn't meant to directly set up It was sort of a test run for a story because they did this, like I said, this is why you heard about a thousand different Marvel that never saw the light of day. There were a couple unannounced ones too, but there was like a long list of shows when they changed all their plans for the movies Behind the scenes. this is why there were so many Marvel Phase four post-credits scenes that now will go nowhere Like the Kit Harington Black Knight post-credits scene. we did hear that they are developing Thor five. Now Chris Hemsworth wants to end his Thor character so he's not going to quit Thor So it is possible they could pay off that Hercules But here's the thing. They also want to speed run through the rest Like the Deadpool joke during Deadpool and Wolverine. Can we just be done with the Multiverse Saga? So Marvel is done is basically delayed which is why you hear about a bunch of stuff because they just want to be done with Secret Wars so all those plans for Thor because it will be at least four years, so be prepared for them to never pay off the Hercules Just like that Black Knight post-credits scene, just part of the graveyard of Marvel but there's a bunch of big stuff coming up. I just did a Those episodes are coming at the end of December. That'll be like the next big Marvel series. There's a bunch of X-Men, Eternals, celestial stuff they're even doing a Voltron version of The Avengers. So be sure to enable olders for my channel everybody click here for my brand new Fantastic Four Thank you so much for watching