Hypothetical question for you: what if frogs Not just terms in terms of numbers... but Amphiterra is a speculative biology project which imagines the incredible and surreal environment to evolve. While the world of Amphiterra often looks it's actually an alternate timeline of Earth, led to early amphibians out competing the What creatures will develop and thrive in For this entry into the archive, we'll explore Project. And remember to support Roxy Valdez on Patreon this project. Now let's leap back 252 million years, and Our epic tale of frog ascendency begins in of the frog lineage: the diminutive Triadobatrachus. This amphibian is present in our timeline the wetter, damper conditions will lead Triadobatrachus synapsids and reptiles. As a result, its descendants will rise to By the Late Triassic in what is now Nigeria, -- and represents the first major deviation Brought on by the ideal conditions of this just a big frog. But over many eons, it will provide the anatomical alternate reality. The reign of the amphibians has now begun... By the early Jurassic, the descendants of niches across the ecosystems of the world. In the marshy plains, an effective early predator Greater Moistboy. While these lifeforms have a comical appearance, having brought their limbs underneath their The Moistboy also possess an enlarged clavicular and helps support their growing weight. Many of the most successful predators of the In the rainforests of what is now Northern branch. This early tree-dweller has evolved a creeping, with our timeline's chameleons, and will offshoots. Already it is becoming more sedentary -- a truly extreme levels... In the forests of what is now Eastern Africa, in the Lanky Frogget. While they still spend some time on the forest expert climbers, patiently navigating from Even more than the Snapapple, the Froggets canopies. And the last major niche filled is that of occupied by the Lowland Dogus. These heard dwelling lifeforms are cousins made the critical advancement of raising their A wide range of future herbivorous megafauna Dogus -- as the various Eofrog descendants On the dry plains of the Cretaceous period, The Bullpronks are the descendants of the pack predators. They hunt grazing animals in coordinated prides, To communicate while on patrol, Bullpronks flags, and even flush them with color. These tails are actually a retained trait have had to get creative to take over niches And speaking of getting creative, in the misty is a creature whose specialized lifestyle plan. Even more than their ancestors -- the Marbled inactive, with some spending their entire an amphibious barnacle. As with our timeline's flatfish, their anatomy for their methods of survival. The Suckerlump's lifestyle requires few that come into the range of their projectile And with their characteristic mottled coloring, it's too late. And further along into the Cretaceous, an emerge under the waves. The Tropical Frondle can be found nestled bizarre lifestyle. Beginning as a free-swimming tadpole, once completely stationary filter feeders. This lifestyle requires little brain power, timeline, Tropical Frondle shockingly digest -- repurposing the valuable proteins elsewhere. The Frondle's most characteristic adult has evolved sticky branches to catch the planktonic At this point in the timeline, some creatures And high in the treetops around the same period, its home. The Tree Frixel is a descendent of the Lanky that emerged alongside the Snapapple. The Tree Frixel is even better adapted for first seems implausibly awkward, but makes element. Like our primates, Tree Fixels swing through perfectly positioned to navigate from branch illustrates. As a result, the Tree Frixels have developed ability. Given time, they may give rise to something One relative of the Frixel will take a very In the forests of our timeline's Central Thus far in the Amphiterran timeline, amphibians birds or bats have, as their ectothermic, for the rigors of powered flight. But the Aloo has found a loophole. To hunt, it climbs up trees and uses eyes calculate the distance of its prey. Once a target is locked, the Alloo leaps back-first wings, and a specialized sac that inflates As bizarre as the Alloo's strategy might Archeopteryx in our timeline, that achieved The future may yet hold skies dominated by Speaking of curious descendants, at the very will give rise to a creature so bizarre it's This is an Inhabited Lorge -- a slow, bulky the Lowland Dogus. At a glance, the slow-moving Lorge might seem But the Lorge has its own private security species that have evolved to live within the The tiny Gobolins are actually another branch and they have developed a close symbiotic At the first sign of danger, the Gobolin horde until it backs off. It's an effective strategy, yet this highly going forward in a changing world... Yet another descendant of the Lowland Dogus Upon the cold tundra of the early Tertiary way to survive the cold. The Foaming Squander lives farther north than Yet the Squander stays warm thanks to its Specialized pores on the squander's back foam. This foam is similar to the mucus coating their skin moist. The Squander's foam is unique, however, the Squander to roam the polar reaches. With this clever adaptation, descendants of cooling climate... To the south, another species that will have dry steppe. The Steppe Fraggon is a carnivorous behemoth Plains Bullpronk. Now highly territorial, the massive Steppe on its own. But the Steppe Fraggon is actually an omnivore, a bear, gorging itself to build fat for a As the planet continues to cool, the Fraggons ways... But one creature whose fate is more mysterious High in the canopy, the astonishing Freeple A descendant of the Tree Frixel, Freeple have to a human. Like male frigate birds, under their chin, for communication. But Freeple communication is highly complex, curious form of morse code. Even more curiously, it seems the Freeple million years after their evolution. What fate befell these enigmatic creatures? Did they die out, or given time, reach a level kind of exit? We have no way to say for sure, but no matter absence makes room for even stranger species. By the late Tertiary, an isolated island environment The Splendid Fraggon is a descendant of the spending its day wading through swampy jungles With a vibrant coloring, a Splendid Fraggon home would likely be a magnificent sight. They feed on mushrooms that grow in this region of their ancestor... On the mainland, however, another Fraggon The Catastrophic Fraggon is the largest land-dwelling seen. The Catastrophic Fraggon's rotund anatomy almost looks too bulky to be able to stand. Yet examining the animal's skeleton, the ring that began overdeveloping all the way This hypertrophied ring acts as the lynchpin While the catastrophic fraggon's reign is An impending drop in temperature will cause Yet one type of Fraggon, already well adapted Stalking the newly formed tundra, the Arctic from the cold thanks to layers of blubber Its most unique adaptation to stay warm, however, These hairs are actually dermal papillae: air against the Fraggon's body. And since the Amphiterran ice age is imagined have all they need to continue to thrive. But there are other ways of surviving the A short distance south, the Eon Toad are a the long winter months. Not a type of Fraggon, the Eon Toad is actually has traded its foaming coat for something Eon Toads enter a state of hibernation that of minor freezing and unfreezing as it waits While this type of cold protection has never cryoprotectors that stop their cells from to be frozen solid for long periods. And on the subject of plants, the Eon toad have grown over its body, which can be harmful And in the same region, the final species as an example of just how alien the fauna The Foaming Trogglefolk are another descendant bit smaller than their ancestors. Incredibly, Trogglefolk live in villages constructed into solid structures due to the cold. They're also highly communal, sculpting regionally distinct 'styles.' This social grooming behavior is not unlike and shows an emerging intelligence. Indeed, certain communities of Trogglefolk their nests, demonstrating the beginnings Like the Freeple before them, Trogglefolks Over the course of this journey, we've seen adaptations and fulfill unexpected niches. But now, we must return to our own timeline, are still quite wonderful. If you enjoyed learning about Amphiterra as on Patreon and social media using the links And as always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your icon to stay up to date on all things Curious. See you in the next video.