- The number one question have today is that, if why did he allow all Why does he allow 9/11, But, if Christianity is a we should have answers to But the great problem is that we've rejected the Bible's I would say to a Christian, a non-believer, a skeptic, an evolutionist if he says to you, &quot;Why It's very simple. What am I being saved from? - Gary, I meet a lot of Frequently, I find it's We all experience it. Now, you've talked on this subject hundreds of times all over the world. Now, you said to me that there's two different views of death, and that greatly impacts our worldview. And, therefore, how we live our life. Can you explain what these two views are? - Yeah, sure. Well, there are only two games in town when it comes to creation. How we got here. You know, either we're evolved, there was a big bang 14 billion years ago, and we're the product of time and chance, and evolution rules. Or there is a creator. So, our views on how we came about greatly inform the position on death. - Okay, and so, you're saying worldview and there's - Yeah. - And they're the two views on death. Now, I'm pretty sure someone who says they've got an evolutionary &quot;Look, I don't think affects the way I view death.&quot; How would you answer that? - Well, it does. That's why I mentioned views Let me explain it this way. I'll have to distill it this way. You know the three big and we talk about 'em inside the church and outside the church. And the three big questions Why am I here? What's my meaning and purpose to life? And, the third one, of course, is what happens to us when we die? So, when I said two games in town, so if evolution is true, okay? You, and I, everybody, we are well then, ultimately, there is no meaning and purpose to life. You're born, you die. But, when you die, what happens? Is there any life after No, there isn't. Now, the other view, if God is creator. As Christians, we believe we were created with meaning and purpose. Our meaning and purpose is in him. And, of course, the well, they're gonna affect so that's the answer to number three. So, ultimately, your determines your answers to - Right, so where we're going after we die depends on where we think we came from. - Exactly. - Christians believe that we And that God is good, therefore, it should reflect his character. So, why does creation have - Well, I understand why but it's almost a type of a non-believer, would ask. In other words, it's a bit of a challenge. I think what we see in the world is a reflection of what So, a lot of people say, why doesn't nature, the The Bible's history says In fact, on the days of creation, God said it was good, good, good. And, on the sixth day, That's how it's translated in English. The word there is, in Hebrew, tov meod, which means finished, But the Bible indicates Sin. What is sin? You know, people say, But sin is defined as rebellion from God. Not acknowledging who he recognizing that he is the creator. So, we are living in a good And there were consequences for sin. God put a curse on this So, when we are looking out at creation today and seeing bad things, it should be actually a It's not God's fault. Ultimately, it's our fault. - Yeah, 'cause I see that a lot. People being angry at God. Because, especially with non-Christians that have experienced suffering, they say, &quot;How could have God &quot;He's not good.&quot; So, that's really clear So, why do we not have this answer then? Why is it not ready on to answer the non-Christians? - Yeah, I think because most Christians have been You and I have. And we're taught evolution. Evolution is a process that says human beings came about by a process of death, and suffering, You know? Then you gotta look at passages that say, you know, when Jesus says, that's a bit inconsistent So, seeing death and if people believe that's the world came to be, you and I evolved, then they're saying, &quot;Well, God used the process That would obviously And, to be honest, Scott, evolution to create, I wouldn't Because, in that scenario, unfit species go extinct. And, yet, Jesus says, &quot;God does he not feed him?&quot; Et cetera. - Wow, so it sounds like, when we try and mix the two worldviews. So, in my example, I was saying, when the non-Christian says, &quot;Hey, I'm angry with God And then, if we don't have an answer, that's maybe because we're saying, &quot;Well, we've accepted the Because, if you- And I guess the reason those people, the non-Christians, is because they think God used evolution, 'cause they're taught evolution is true. And, if they think the for four and a half billion years, the universe a harsh place then they just import Well, God created that. - Yeah. - But what you're saying - No, Scott, in all the churches I've ministered in in and speaking to Christians, and pastors, and having non-believers come up, unquestionably, the number one question Christians and non-believers if God is a God of love, why did he allow all And their view is that And a lot of Christians will say, when they're challenged by non-believers, &quot;Well, if God's good,&quot; you you know, &quot;9/11, and And we don't answer the question. The majority answer, I believe, is, &quot;Well, we don't know those things now, but, you know, when we get Well, I can tell you, that I had when I was not a Christian and I was challenging It was like, &quot;Well, kind But, if Christianity is a you know, we should have And we do. But the great problem is we've rejected the Bible's The creation account, you know, particularly when we're and the age of the earth, So, if we reject that, very soon after the creation, it talks about mankind's rebellion. So, even Christians who they believe that we're sinners, and Christ came to redeem us from sin. And I say, &quot;Well, which book in the Bible do you have to go to to Guess what, it's back You're kind of having two bob each way. And there's a massive someone's apologetic in their faith if they're trying to witness to someone about the salvation of Christ. But, at the same time, they about the creation account of Genesis.&quot; - Wow, so you're saying, and we're trying to tell a non-Christian, &quot;Hey, God's a good God.&quot; And, &quot;Hey, God wouldn't put all this death and suffering into the world.&quot; Well, you're gonna be believed in an evolutionary worldview, because you're probably chapters of Genesis as they're written. And, therefore, God was the one that put the suffering there. - Exactly. - But the, in chapter original death, the way was through Adam and Eve, not through God. - It's very simple. I would say to a Christian, a non-believer, a if he says to you, &quot;Why It's very simple. What am I being saved from? Hebrews 9:3 tells us that, without death, there is no remission of sins. Why did God bring a substitution? You know, all those years there was a substitutionary It was a part-time thing, if Animals were being sacrificed. The priests would lay their hands on it, transfer the sin of the and that animal would That was a temporary Jesus, the very lamb of that would take away And, again, if we accept evolution, and we try to add that to the Bible, evolution is a record of death. That means God has, is the Now, in a way, he did institute death when he put a curse on the earth. So, the next question &quot;Why did God institute a curse?&quot; - Yeah, I was gonna ask that, why? Yeah, because it's, 'cause okay, you are saying don't come from God, that But it was God who was the So, and I've had to ask, Gary, - Well, again, if we take the Adam and Eve, and us as their descendants, we would have lived eternally. He was created to be an eternal being. So, once humanity rebelled from God, we would've been eternally That's an unthinkable thing. So, now, believe it or not, it's actually only through death that we can be reconciled So, we have to go through, if but we have to believe And, therefore, we can be And, when we're reconciled that gets back to the There can be no greater meaning than to find out who made us, and to be reconciled back to him. And, even though the Bible's history said, we rebelled from God, he For us to get back to him. God sent a rescue mission, right? To humanity in the form of Jesus Christ. - So, can we just cover that point again? It sounded like you were saying it was a mercy of God to Can you explain that? So, we- So, first of all, we're living. Adam and Eve, they were Everything was good, you And that was God's original plan. But then, because of it was a mercy of God to put the curse on them, Am I saying that correct? - Would you agree? See, we always think about But, actually, if you read Genesis 3, it tells us the ground was cursed, the plants were cursed, the whole of creation was cursed. We read about the heavens and earth. Well, that's been affected by Adam's sin. That's why God will eventually make a new heavens and earth. And so, we talk about sin, we tend to think about personal sin. Well, we can understand why people fly planes into buildings. Or, you know, steal your widescreen TV, and break into your But, when we see things It's a sign that the earth is That's what it tells us in Romans. And that's why I made when we see things happening, it should be a reminder. When there are earthquakes in the world that kill thousands. Or tsunamis. Or whether our own family members die, it's a reminder of what went wrong. You know, in the last few years, Scott, I've lost my dad, my sister to cancer a few years ago. And then, during COVID, I'm and my brother is basically Well, because of lockdowns and whatever, and I'm not here to discuss those, but I could not actually get back to Australia to see my brother. I had to say goodbye to him on the phone. It's one of the most difficult things I've ever done in my life. I had to watch his funeral online. And I can understand, you &quot;Well, I'm angry at God,&quot; I can honestly say to you, I thought, &quot;This is the problem with &quot;And part of the problem &quot;I'm a descendant of Adam.&quot; You don't have to teach From the moment we're born, children to misbehave and to rebel. That's part of our nature. And so, the only remedy Because, you know, people about all the suffering in the world?&quot; He did something, he sent Jesus. And here's the next picture, okay? The big picture, because this is not the main game. This is not the grand final. It's the world to come. We're not saved just for this life. We've been saved for the world to come. - Wow, and that, having is gonna be, well, I can a lot more helpful when you Like some of the things If you know that this and there's an age to come that will last forever and ever, then this life is just a small blip. Not saying those things were not painful. But I imagine, in light of eternity, you were able to get through - Yes, because I realized as I mentioned, as a result of sin. Look, does this take God by surprise? Again, if we read scripture, Jesus says, you will have trouble. Now, anybody watching this, anybody here never had you will have trouble. Because he recognized we live When he visited the tomb it says, Jesus wept. Why did he weep? He had the power to But I believe that the creator was grieved at what sin had done to his creation. That it can cause the pain of loss. Can cause the pain of suffering. And so, when people go I've had so many Christians &quot;Why did God allow this to happen?&quot; Well, I'd say it's a reflection And that's the very, very And some people will say, &quot;But I'm not a sinner.&quot; &quot;I don't rob banks, I don't But it's not the gravity of It's who we're offending. It's who we are sinning against. And whether it's, you the smallest sin or the worst one, it doesn't matter, in terms of our offense before the The gravity of the offense is the same. - Yeah, a lot of people I speak will say something to the effect of, &quot;Look, I'm not, I'm not too And I think, when I ask I find out that they're actually comparing themself with Hitler. Or comparing themself with And they're saying, &quot;Comparatively, I seem to be doing okay.&quot; But, as you're saying, the problem is sin is still sin. - You know, if I could I was back in Australia And, for the whole week after, you know, there was literally And, I remember, I won't but one of Australia's most was well-known for his And he was interviewing a And, yeah, Salvos did a great job when there's train crashes, and they go there to try to provide counsel for, you know, loved ones that are suffering. And he turned round to the and he said, &quot;Well, do you And he said, &quot;Well, yes.&quot; And he said, &quot;Well, if he's creator,&quot; he said, &quot;and he's supposedly in control,&quot; he said, &quot;why didn't these terrorists flying And the Salvation Army officer &quot;Well, let me ask you,&quot; he said, &quot;is God in control of your life?&quot; - Wow. You say, ultimately there's, it gets back to the root of the problem. And so, whether we look at creation falling, and, as I said, you know, the tsunamis, the earthquakes, the bush fires. And there might be some human causes to some of those things. Or our personal sin, our they both have the same root cause. Sin. The ground was cursed, and humans were cursed also as a result. And so, that's why the whole of creation also has to be restored. - And now, I want to ask you And it's, why did God curse his creation? But, before that, I just wanna about Jesus, and Jesus weeping And so, I was just well, if you're trying and you're trying to have why would God be sad? Why was Jesus sad about if he was the one that And it's almost like, and Healing sicknesses and diseases. Gary, how do people mix, have an evolutionary worldview, and try to be a Christian and then say, healing is what Jesus did? Like why would Jesus heal? Is that a fair question to ask? - Well, when Jesus He was actually reversing So, early missionaries, when we went out to third world countries, it wasn't just to take the We taught health benefits, sanitation, all of those things that And, of course, you find a lot of those, even health laws, in scripture as well. So, yes, there is a bit because the big problem, is people think death is normal. You say, &quot;Well, yeah, But, according to God, And he even describes it The last enemy to be destroyed is death. - Yeah, I think that nails it there. If God says the last, it's an enemy, then it's not his, what he used to create. He didn't use this Surely not, because he says it's an enemy and he's gonna put it under his feet. So, that question I wanted to ask you. Some people will ask, well, look, it was Adam and Eve that sinned. They deserve the curse. What about creation? What about all the animals? The whole of creation Why did God do that? - Well, human beings are kind of, to we're kind of the top of the food chain. So, Adam and Eve were given When God says, go and Adam and Eve, Adam in particular, was the federal head of creation. So, he actually knew, in a his consequences, he was responsible for the world around him. So, once he sinned, it actually And, you know, remember, &quot;What have you done?&quot; And, if we read scripture, of his offense from the moment he did it. He would realized he'd - Okay, so he was in everything got cursed with him. So, Gary, instead of seeing all the cancer, and death, and earthquakes, and tsunamis in the world, and saying, you know, &quot;Why have you created It should remind us, Something went wrong. And we can't do anything - No. Can you give us some that talk about this? - Yeah, there are several, and a much discussed And, of course, we know the story. Satan, which means the accuser, he stands before God, and he says to God, &quot;Look at Job-&quot; Or, sorry, God says &quot;Look at Job, he's,&quot; God even calls Job a righteous man. Effectively, Satan's accusation is that the only reason Job loves you is because of all the You know, his wealth, and And so, imagine poor Job. He's got no idea of this conversation happening in the heavenlies. And, basically, God says, And we read that Job gets sick. His friends come along, I mean, &quot;Why are all these bad &quot;Have you caused offense to God?&quot; &quot;What sin have you got His wife says, &quot;Curse God,&quot; and die. Family members die, et cetera. And, you know, Job is human, he complains. He kind of, he whines. But I think it's fascinating, if you read the book towards God starts talking to &quot;Job, were you there when I laid the foundations of the Earth?&quot; In other words, my perspective &quot;Don't you think I see what's happening?&quot; &quot;You understand, I can see And, if I could read a passage, - Yeah, go ahead. Job knew he was a sinner. And he, through those creation passages, he knew that God was dusty bones back from the ground. And, in Job 19, verses 25 to 27, for me, this is one of the most powerful passages in the whole Bible, and I always get So, Job stands there and he says, &quot;For I know that my redeemer lives, and at the last he will &quot;And after my skin has yet in my flesh I shall see God, whom I shall see for myself, and my eyes shall &quot;My heart faints within me.&quot; See, Job didn't have just now in mind. He had a future. Now, the thing with Job, he didn't have the benefit Christ hadn't come. But he knew, ultimately, that God was going to save him in the end. And, that there, he's talking about a physical, a physical resurrection. &quot;In my flesh, in my own eyes, I shall stand upon the earth.&quot; &quot;My redeemer lives.&quot; - Wow, what a hope, Gary. - What an incredible testimony that we got just from Job. With all the suffering - Yeah, 'cause people are going through suffering today, Gary. But the, yeah, maybe we should 'cause the suffering he went through was, I mean, it's just almost indescribable. Yet, he still came out He had a hope of the resurrection. Now, Gary, I'm wondering, 'cause this doesn't always a lot of us, we can go through And we do ask those &quot;Have I done something wrong? Or, &quot;Has someone else Or like, &quot;What's happening?&quot; &quot;Why are you making me suffer?&quot; Why do we do that? Why do we not have Job's response? Why do we not say, &quot;You know what?&quot; &quot;Whatever happens, I know that I'm gonna see God in the flesh.&quot; Yeah, what, why are we not more like Job? - I think there could be multiple reasons. One is our world, particularly We're obsessed with wealth, and we just don't necessarily You know, as I said, this It's the one to come where we're not going to have all of these things. - So, again, that's more The worldview is, &quot;Hey, &quot;It's all about wealth.&quot; And then, sometimes, we get as Christians thinking, &quot;Oh, I'm suffering now, so But, really, we gotta rip that We need to have the Christian worldview. - Yeah, and I think there's another thing, we kind of think of the as somehow inferior to what we have now for those things. I mean, it's just going - I've heard that. - And I've met so many that believe we're just gonna be some spirit beings floating around Well, that's not an adequate And, in fact, the reason about the new heavens Or, sorry, the heavens and earth that God created in Genesis 1 are reserved for destruction. Think about this, death came to creation. So, as long as there is that's a reminder of death. You know, some people kind of shake the dust off this globe, and we're gonna be restored here. No. All that death there is So, leaving that there, I That's the problem. And so, a new heavens and earth, completely resurrected, restored. Just like you and I. I'm not gonna have the same body, but I'm gonna be completely restored and resurrected in renewed bodies. And, of course, it's gonna You know, we read about the And, if I could read a that really points this out. Because, Revelation 21 and 22, they're the last two In Revelation 21, it says, all tears from their eyes.&quot; That's what we have today. Whether you're an please don't tell me you're Even though an evolutionist might say, &quot;Death is normal, it's the way,&quot; of course we all grieve at And he said, goes on and says, &quot;There shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former things have passed away.&quot; And then, &quot;In the midst,&quot; and it's talking about the new Jerusalem. &quot;There was the tree of life.&quot; And, here's the kicker. &quot;And there shall be no more curse.&quot; That's the last chapter in the And where is that pointing back to? And it says, &quot;And there What's it talking about? We've gotta go back to the Book of Genesis to understand the And so, if you are a Christian who's added evolution to the Bible, and you believe that God used a process of millions of years of evolution, and death, and suffering, and the Bible says there's You're gonna be restoring of death and suffering? That's really not much blessed But, as Christians, we believe, those things are gonna be gone. They're gonna be passed away. And we're gonna enter into a We get an indication for revelation. There are streets. That there will be buildings. And so, this is something, definitely, if you think this, some parts of this existence are good, and they are. But I think it pales to, compared to what is awaiting us. And part of that is a prize, Scott, for enduring what we're going through now. So, when people say, &quot;Wow, you That's actually an Because, guess what? When things went wrong and we rebelled against God, we messed up his creation. It's his. We failed the nest. Even though it's his he made it, we messed it up. And God sends a rescue to pay the penalty that should have been ours. So, in reality, you know, we didn't get what we deserve. God himself took upon the penalty for all of that. And that's called, commonly called grace. Also, you might say, unmerited favor. We got what we didn't deserve. - So, we might be angry with God, if we experience If we have bought in a bit of the secular worldview that it It's about our happiness, And, if we lose some of our then it's God's fault because that's the thing But, what you're saying is, the Bible doesn't talk about this. If we restore the beginning we know the beginning was good and the end is gonna be good. And it's a real place. The new heavens and the new earth is a real place, you were saying. And I can see that makes a lot of sense. If we are looking forward to a reality, and we're not just looking Because, if you're looking like, how are you gonna, what You're probably gonna put your treasure in this life. And it reminded me of this passage. I had to look it up, it's John 12:25. And it says, &quot;Anyone who while anyone who hates will keep it for eternal life.&quot; And I wonder whether us, Christians in the western world that experience a lot of we really need to know, as we're experiencing that the age to come is a reality. And we need to recognize that death is something present with us, and This isn't what we're hoping for. And we're hoping for what's to come. So, I, yeah, that was- That really answers that Now, I wanted to ask move on to another question about the new heavens and the new Earth. I was reminded as you were talking of, just a couple of weeks ago, when I was evangelizing on the street. And someone had come up to me, and we were talking about death. And his question to me, which but I want to hear what you would say was, &quot;Look, I think death is natural.&quot; He says, &quot;Death is a natural thing.&quot; And I tried to challenge him on that. I said, &quot;Okay, do you want to die?&quot; And he said, &quot;Yeah, it's a I was like, &quot;Well, do And he said, &quot;No, I don't wanna die now.&quot; And I said, &quot;Look, all of us here, we've got an instinct, we want to live.&quot; And I try and use that as a basis for connecting Christian, non-Christian, doesn't matter who you are, we recognize that death is an enemy. But I wonder if that Or how you might have talked about that. - Well, talk to people in the there's no atheists in foxholes, because, the very next And the story you just told me there, you said, you know, &quot;Do you &quot;Well, no.&quot; So, really, embedded in that answer is, &quot;Well, no, I wanna live my life and do the things I want to do.&quot; But, yeah, there's a reality, But, here's the point. We don't get to choose the time we die. And Jesus wonders about that, you know? This very minute, your life And that's a great example. You know, we don't know when it's gonna happen. You know, when, at 9/11, when and, you know, went into their did they think a plane the office window? I mean, I'm not trying but that's how bizarre and serious, you know, the responsibilities we have of living in this world, and and what happens to us. You know, I'm sitting here right now. God forbid, I could, you know, and something could happen to me. But that's why the Bible says today is the day of salvation, what's going to happen to you tomorrow. So, yes, whilst the evolutionist Yes, he's going to die. - Yeah, but he's not gonna get the time and place to choose when it happens. And he won't be reconciled with that. - Yeah, so even though we still, none of us wanna die. And, if, I mean, some people do and have suicidal tendencies, they're having a mental - Yeah, some people are just desperately unhappy with this world, Scott. But I'd suggest that's a big end game picture in mind. What's the point of living this life if it's just, there's nothing at the end? And that is a big consequence, you know, I think, for Christianity and the Bible. And so many people in you know, they reject God on the basis of not understanding the gospel. Not understanding what God actually did. And not understanding was not made that way originally by God. 'Cause they see God as an ogre, not as a God of love if he's created this miserable world as some may think. - Gary, you mentioned 9/11 and the tragedy that happened there. When people do things like how are we to respond? - Yeah, you remember I just mentioned that no one expected, when they that something was gonna happen to them. But there are some scriptural passages from the Lord himself, And Jesus was asked similar questions. So, it tells us that When you read in Luke it says, &quot;There were who told Jesus about the that's Pontius Pilate, &quot;had &quot;Jesus answered, 'Do you were worse sinners than because they suffered this way?'&quot; &quot;'I tell you, no.'&quot; &quot;'But unless you repent, So, Jesus didn't say, you know, &quot;Oh, they you know, they were worse sinners.&quot; I mean, that was the What he's just saying is, you need to be saved, you need to repent, because you might be the that Pilate pulls out. And then, it goes on, &quot;Or those 18 who died when the tower in Siloam fell on them.&quot; And he says it again. &quot;Do you think they were more guilty than all the others living in Jerusalem?&quot; &quot;I tell you, no.&quot; &quot;But unless you repent, So, Jesus' answer is, you don't know when a building's gonna fall on you. You don't know when you're You don't know when a plane's But, unless you repent, in other words, unless you acknowledge Jesus Christ as your savior, acknowledge that you're a sinner, you too will perish. And death, here's the The evolutionist might but it isn't. It's only the beginning And, as I said, right at the beginning, the decisions you make in this life are gonna affect where you spend eternity. Scott, there is nothing You know, people might be &quot;Oh, he's such a pious man.&quot; Well, they don't know me, you know? Every day, I can have a wrong thought or a wrong motive for doing something. We are all incapable of pleasing God, because of our sin nature. And that's why the sinless Lamb of God had to come to take our place. It's such an incredible story. When I think about who God is, if he is the creator of this and he chose this little to have fellowship with him. And, when it went wrong, stepped outta there and came here to make a way so that you and I can be redeemed back to our creator. It's just an incredible story. And, as I said, people wanna know that God's a god of love. Well, there it is. - Amazing, thanks, Gary. I'm particularly amazed And Luke, that you read that passage out. It seems like Jesus used the opportunity of a natural disaster and of someone doing to preach the gospel. Like it might be said today that, if you were to use a natural you might be saying, &quot;That's insensitive.&quot; &quot;These people lost their lives.&quot; But I think the key, what is this life is not all that there is. - Yeah. - And, because we know that, he would use even the worst to tell people the truth. Gary, there might be are not believers, they're In fact, I know that I've met people that watched some of our &quot;Look, I've started to come towards faith because of some of these videos.&quot; But, what would you say to them, and how would you encourage them to, I mean, obviously, you wanna make, encourage them to make a But why should they do that? - Well, everything we have Either Christian or a non-Christian. I'm not taking my nice I'm not taking, you know, you're not taking your whatever gives you great And, as I said, this life is not the end. The next life is a beginning. And so, we can't take anything with you. Jesus has a passage in Luke 12. Parable of the rich man and the fool. And he says, &quot;I will say to my soul, 'Soul, you have ample goods relax, eat, drink, be merry.'&quot; &quot;But God said to him, 'Fool, this night, your soul is required of you, and the things you have They're all gonna- They're temporary. And, even to the Christians, when I say that sometimes on storing up things for ourself. What are we taking to heaven with us? I often say, is there anything And I, the answers I get are, no. But, actually, there is something we're taking to heaven with us. And that is the people You know, I'm a former revolutionist. Former atheist. And I was the first person Okay, as an adult. And I mentioned my dad Both became Christians. I've seen the majority of my family saved. And so, what would I sacrifice? What would I give away in this world, if I had to, to see them come with me? You'd give everything, wouldn't you? Yeah. But in God's mercy, you know, I was able to lead them to the Lord, and I know they're there. And I know that I'm gonna My sister, who got saved after me, it was a bizarre situation. I was living in Brisbane She was in Perth, and she And, fortunately, I went back to see her. And she was there in her bed, and she knew she was, And I had to be back, and I said goodbye to her. Just like you and I sitting here now, I said goodbye, said a prayer. And we both knew that, in this life, we weren't gonna be And I cried like a baby. And, even though I was my sister said, &quot;Don't cry, we're gonna Incredible. She had that faith at And so, that's what I say, that's the blessed hope that we have. And, when we're restored, it's not gonna be some miserable You know, Genesis gives us a glimpse. We look to Genesis for what the new heavens and earth And so, we started off talking about Christians and non-believers. And, as I say, I want to repeat, when we look out at this world, even though we might say it's there's death in the world. There are bad things that happen. And Jesus says, in Matthew 5:45, &quot;He makes the sun to rise and he sends rain on the See, sinner and saint, we're all sharing this same sin cursed world. So, Christians might ask, &quot;Why me?&quot; You know, &quot;I'm a Christian, Jeremiah had a similar complaint. I have to be honest and say, &quot;Why not me?&quot; &quot;Why not me?&quot; That passage tells us. Why not me, Scott? I'm a sinner. But the difference is, as I said, I've not just been saved to this world, but the next one to come. And then, Jesus, I said before, he said, &quot;In this world, you will have trouble.&quot; But then, he goes on and he says, &quot;But take heart; I have So, when we look at Jesus it gives us an example that God has the power of resurrection. He has the power to restore. And, I remember, some time- It was actually a pastor &quot;Gary, when I look at the new it seems too fantastic.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;Do you He goes, &quot;Yeah.&quot; And I said, &quot;Well, he did it once, don't you think he can do it again?&quot; &quot;Absolutely.&quot; And that's, again, we get aspect of this story is so important. You know, what we've is the gospel. Starts in the Book of Genesis, and we read in the Book of It's tied together. Shows, one, the unity of scripture. But God is undoing, in those last two chapters, everything that went And, as I said, if you don't I think, I'm not saying you're But I think there's a glaring And the bigger problem I see is, how would you witness to somebody? How would you share to somebody and say, you know, if you believe in evolution, or you think that God and that's the way that God made, I don't think there's much in your witnessing, when And, one final passage. We always love to read &quot;For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only son.&quot; Why do we leave out the next verse? It says the reason. &quot;For God did not send to condemn the world, but to save the world through him.&quot; - This has been really valuable. And I think, hopefully, this gives Christians watching, as well as non-Christians, an understanding that Death is not the end. But that hope needs to In us saying yes to him, because he's our gate, he's our door. So, thanks a lot, Gary, for your time. - Thank you.