- Brace yourself. Here is possibly the of exoplanetary science. There are thousands, yes, that have been observed to quite literally wobble seemingly defying Yet, in almost all cases, we have no explanation and this isn't some new revelation. We have known about this Now, yes, we can wave our hands and argue that something but figuring out what that something is, has proved an elusive, and quite frankly, intractable problem. It means that there's of untapped discovery space up for grabs. I'm talking potentially So today, let's dive into by my graduate student, Daniel Yahalomi, that has discovered a new trick that could finally help us at last. So first, some quick background. These wobbles I mentioned are detected by watching planets in front of their star. If you had a system with a single star and a single planet, a two-body system, the planet should transit like clockwork with eclipses precisely spaced by exactly one orbital period We call these Keplerian But the three-body problem because now, everything moves on slightly non-Keplerian orbits, and the timing between transits We call those irregularities or TTVs for short. Those are the wobbles. So now, let's look at the data. NASA's Kepler mission, which again, was named after Johannes, discovered thousands of Now, sometimes we see in front of one star, and other times, we see But we always knew that what Kepler saw It was primarily only sensitive to planets close to their star. So presumably, there should that alluded direct detection by Kepler, especially, on the The other big thing that that wobbling planets are not rather they are par for the course. In a 2020 paper led by my team, we showed that out of a sample of 2,600 single a whopping 70% of them show That's nuts. If every one of those by another planet in the that there's an additional that are just waiting in the Indeed, the original about these wobbles was that they could be used in the capital zones of their stars. What makes these wobbles that the presumed third isn't necessarily a planet. It could be instead, can you An exomoon. Now, it's not fair to say that no one is talking There are a ton of great but in general, the only to figure out a unique and orbits is when all of in front of the star. Consider the simplest scenario here, one star with two planets. The inner planet is perturbed and we can see those wobbles In general, it kind of with some period, and we Now, if you know the orbital period of the inner and outer planet, you can actually do a what that TTV period will be. It's a one-to-one relation. However, if that outer say, because we fail to detect it, then the reverse is not true. We can't take the inner planet's and figure out a unique solution for the outer planet's period. Instead of having a one-to-one relation, there are dozens, sometimes even hundreds This is the whole frustration and this isn't a hypothetical. For thousands of planets, a single planet that's wobbling around, but no way to even figure out of the presumed second planet, where there's even more planets than that. I think this is why there is on this subject. It is largely considered It's as though physics itself Don't even bother trying to figure out what is causing these wobbles.&quot; But you guys know, my team has and so I'm really excited by with me to try and finally - I could do this all day. - You know, being stubborn especially, when it that is incogni.com. So, what do I mean by that? Well, look, we all know where your personal data is being sold to the highest bidder, traded Incogni is a service which fights back, stubbornly refusing to let this pass. They scour public and private databases for your personal information, and then persistently demanded on your behalf, as is your legal right. Dive into their dashboard, and you can see the status For example, they've successfully from 315 databases to date. Yes, you could do this yourself, but it would've taken an Incogni is a fantastic and they're supporting Cool World. So we're extra thankful for that. So to get started, head and use the code, coolworlds, to get 60% of their annual plan. Once again, that's incogni.com/coolworlds, and use the code, coolworlds. Now, back to the video. Personally, my interest was I think, for most of my colleagues, when they see these that it must be another planet in the system that's causing them, but actually, a moon equally works. I published a video and a how exomoon should with very fast frequencies. You can kind of think on your music player. In contrast, a perturbing planet, usually causes a much lower frequency, so you can kind of think of But the problem is that these There are always exceptions, and so that makes it very difficult for us to have any kind of clean, what is really the cause What we needed was something that could definitively Daniel dug into this problem with me by first simulating of planets that you could imagine, varying their masses, orbits, eccentricities, et cetera. In each and every case, he that you'd get for just presuming that the other as is often the case. So on the X-axis here, of that hidden perturbing that we do see. And on the Y-axis, let's that you get in your data. What was revealed was this complex web of possible solutions, what No wonder we've been If I give you an observed TTV period, that's equivalent to a horizontal line, drawn across this diagram, with another line is an allowed solution for that second planet. I mean, this is like For the first time we can clearly see why this problem has Why it's such a difficult one? What's really cool is that that describes every single a formula explicable in terms As remarkable as an I think, the most interesting part of this diagram is right here, this pair of bizarre straight lines, that seem to do something A pair of lines that we call the upper and lower exoplanet edge. It's as if Gandalf himself So Daniel, when I first saw these edges, it was a real who ordered that moment. It really defied my physical intuition. So I tasked you to try and What was your journey - Well, the first thought was, did we make a mistake? And so I went back to the and kept iterating and trying and they just kept popping up. So accepting these edges is real, the first clue that we had was that the period of these exoplanet edges, was equal to the period and half the period of And so I started to dive deep into the literature of planetary dynamics, and I figured I'd seek out advice from David Nesvorny and Erik Agle. Those are two of the preeminent And I ended up getting to go visit with both of them several times, and get what I like to And we started to together And then I remember, one of the times I came I was biking up to campus As cheesy as it sounds, I went in the astronomy classroom here, and I just needed to start of the observed frequencies And finally, we had an explanation. It was in the summer, so the department was a little and I was just running to show this to. And then I remember I emailed and I think you were on So we just met standing - I like the fact, this story makes it sound all we do in the Cool Worlds team, it's just work out all the time, right? - Yeah, you know, it's Cool Worlds Lab or Cool Worlds Gym. But anyway, yeah, it was not to kind of of this moment, but for me, it was this like amazing You know what, as a kid you you have this question, and and you get to this discovery, and that was really amazing. - So enough with this tease, like, what is the actual explanation, and what did you find? - Yeah, so there's two The first is to do with tides. As we've known for hundreds of years now, the rising and falling by the gravitational effect of the moon. So in that it's closest, it pulls all the water And so in every 24 hours, as in every time Earth we get two high tides and two low tides, on every location on the Earth. Now, what's amazing, or at least what I think is pretty cool, is this same tidal effect can operate on orbits of the planet, not the surface of the planet itself, but how a planet is moving by the gravitational effect To understand this, let's we're observing the solar we'll focus only on the for this toy model. You can imagine that wherever the orbit of the Earth will Jupiter's current location, just like the tides on Earth are pulled slightly of the moon. Now, in transit observations, we have to remember one other thing, and that's that we only and this one unique location in its orbit, while it's eclipsing a All right, so let's take and Jupiter's orbits look like. And I'll freeze-frame the Earth, and its tidal distortion due to Jupiter, at the high tide and low tide When we do this, we find that there'll be And just like the tides on Earth, we observe that this orbital high tide and low tide happens twice So in other words, that's a period of half which is exactly the period we expect the lower exoplanet edge. - All right, so we got it then, this is the answer, right? - Well, it's one of There is another, it's a and it's due to an observational - Aliases. No, we are not talking about pseudonyms or your Twitter handle, we are talking about a very subtle effect that occurs in signal processing. We actually all know of a very If you stare out of and look at a neighboring car, you've probably noticed how to be spinning at the expected rate. Sometimes they seem to or even sometimes backwards. What's happening is that your There's some debate on the exact number. Let's use 50 frames per So if the wheel now spins or any faster known as the that the period you see Instead of seeing the true frequency, you see a so-called alias. So how is this relevant Well, consider that just like your eyes, astronomers also have we observe these distant wobbles. We can only measure wobble by timing the transits of And of course, the spacing is the orbital period. So that's our frame rate. As an example, the Earth It's a 152nd back and So an alien watching the Earth should be able to see these deviations. Now, strictly, the pew of these wobble, should be once every lunar but the alien would only get to see the Earth transit once per year, and so they would see this line here. So the true frequency is way, way faster than the nyquist rate. And so here, the alien that true frequency, instead, they would see of once per 2.7 years. That is aliasing. Wait, so how does aliasing have anything to do with this story? What is this alternative way - Well, first, let me that's causing this without aliasing. One of the driving forces that causes those weird in the landscape diagram, happens at something that which is the moment when two planets, have their closest And so to understand this, and let's look at the wobbles by Jupiter due to conjunctions. On the left, I'm showing of Earth and Jupiter in their orbit. And on the right, I'm showing We can see that as the Earth's TTV is a period of the conjunctions. That is, the sinusoidal wave goes through one full cycle every conjunction. However, again, the alien when it transits. So that's the frame rate problem. So what I'll do now, is I'll of the Earth in Jupiter, but I'll freeze both when the Earth is in transit. When we do this, we loop We find that, yes, while the true period of the TTV is equal to the what I told you earlier, to observe is actually different. It's a TTV with a period equal the perturbing planet here. And this will happen has a period more than So this will cause a TTV that upper edge. And just like that, we can You know, it's almost like at exoplanets, and just - The edges are a really and I'm very proud of Daniel for his discovery and explanation. To finish us off, the obvious how does this actually help us? A key insight is that for a two-planet system that lands below that lower So of course, the standard to try and break this rule. To check this, we took all of the real and known two-planet and measured their TTV periods. And remember, because in these cases, both of the plants are then we know all of the Remarkably, there are a few cases where the TTV periods are below The only explanation here is that the two-planet There must be another mass because anything below the edge, is necessarily a pretty that makes them incredibly interesting as possible exomoon signals. Clearly, we need to chase down but that's a great example of Coming back to the single planet case, the edges can be useful here too, because in real world analysis, we often do have some in the system, be it from the or from using other exoplanet Massive inner planets are So imagine we've ruled out planets, below a four-to-one period ratio. Now, if we have a fast and then there are now only The places where this line Rather than blindly guessing the solution, we have two crisp, clear You can bet that Daniel and I on this fascinating problem. I really do think this is one of the most underappreciated problems in modern exoplanetary science, because look, the the holy grail on the mountaintop, was that it could deliver But the complex web of possibilities, seemingly foil that dream. With this new work, we have and revealed deep new insights. It means that we may very well be on the cusp of detecting and potentially, many exomoons too. So until next time, stay (gentle music) Thank you so much for watching, everybody. I hope you enjoyed it. If you did, then be sure It really does help us out. And if you wanna become the Cool Worlds Lab, you can use the link up just like our latest to thank here; Brian Cartmell, Jason Bryant, Steven Patterson, and Guillaume Le Saint. Brian, Jason, Steven, Guillaume, thank you so much for your support. All right, stay safe out there, guys.