While it is undoubtedly the most popular, set in a post-apocalyptic world. There's Wasteland, which is a series of Metro 2033. Can You Beat Metro 2033 With Only A Revolver? Before the gameplay even starts, the stage 20 years ago there was a nuclear war which 40,000 people retreated underground and turned know and love into a breeding ground for mutated Subway please don't sue me. Then came the choice, the choice that influences the rest of the game. I choice the Spartan mode because resource the easiest Difficulty: Normal. The lack of an Easy difficulty was the first The game begins and... I don't have a Revolver, only this glorified I noticed immediately that the aiming is a is slower than looking left or right. The problem was immediate. Monsters attacked me and I had to attack them by attacking with the knife. Outside, in view of a lighthouse, we got swarmed The number of them made it clear that not fire. I got attacked, an incestuous descendant of Alex, the Russian guy, instructed me to follow packed to the brim with a bunch of crybabies, Sounds of rats in the pipes gave away what went to work. This is about as easy as combat will ever Most of the monsters are behind the grating, Alex rambled on about the Dark Ones being guard post was destroyed by these so called Super bad-ass Hunter gave me his dog tags, Yeah he died. I wandered around a bit, it wouldn't occur points towards my objective instead of pointing Because, you know, you expect a compass to You don't look at a plunger and think about Armory guy gave me a submachine gun, the Bastard gas mask similar to the one I'll be wearing I used bullets to buy more bullets, and set The train car was fun, it was a like Five meets Back at the Barnyard meets Chernobyl. This guy was a man after my own heart, "a Something happened but he doesn't give enough We had to use a different tunnel to get.. I'll go ahead and point out now that I had game what because of the Russian accents and Things got green and conveniently the guy path. Shadow people walked the track and the son I'm not entirely sure what happened next. It kinda looked like I got felt up by an Enderman, I literally missed 2 point blank shots. Another bad sign. As expected, the guy who came along at the That's how games work. It really hit me just what I'd gotten myself what looked like 15 Nosalis after us. Nosalis are the name of the mutants. Some of them take 3-4 shots to kill. I don't want to brag or anything, but I a thing or two about math. And if my calculations are correct, I'm As they started violating my restraining order crayon, I began using my knife because some This is not Fallout where ammo is plentiful. One of the main themes of this game is that resources, that includes my ammo. Because of this, using my knife is allowed. It's about as effective as one of those I already failed the challenge at the very get through this section without the knife. There wasn't enough Revolver ammo available I got knocked off the side, hid while every of me arrived at Riga Station. A little boy in stupid green boots told me How he knew who I was or where I would be His name is Bourbon, like the soap, and he This is the sort of thing an English teacher Recall the 1920s and 30s and the prohibition Regions without alcohol could be known as Get it? Bourbon is an alcohol, dry station, dry county. I'm giving myself an E for effort and a I attempted to stock up on bullets but in revolver ammo, which is really not a lot. It was a good thing I did that though, because me on the head with a head, and stole my money. Mr Krabs would have killed everyone in the on him. Anyway, I met back up with Bourbon, followed out way through the tunnels. A group of raiders were hiding out in our Human enemies, in general, are less annoying They go to hell when they die because that's and they can be taken down with a single headshot. This is standard video game shoot-y stuff Some of them even had revolver ammo on them. This turn of events led to an absurd amount Past the raider camp, we arrived at the bridge first time. After I died, I let Bourbon do most of the a bit humorous, we cleared another wave of He jumped from the back of this train car, landed on the edge, and got a checkpoint. I was stuck, there was no way for me to get mission. Thankfully we weren't too far into it yet. I don't want to waste time on it, but everything the jump the 2nd time, and we were passed I OD'd on glowing green fungus several times aren't meant to comprehend, we got to the I saved the last bullet I had for myself just Inside I followed Bourbon a bit, sold my non-revolving sold my flash bangs and throwing knives, if a gun like a real man, Mike showed us his for the first time. The surface, while scary, is very post-apocalyptic. It's spooky and eerie and snowy. Lake Eerie only has two of those things. Score one for Moscow. As is tradition in video games, Bourbon made I couldn't. I had to take the long way around and I'll smart. Remember what I said about me expecting the Well... I sorta kinda got lost for like half an hour. The game tells you that a button brings up I won't even go to the bathroom without The point here is that I wasted a lot of time. I even looked up a guide on a certain website Eventually though, I learned what a compass suffocated just after getting the handle on Bourbon. If my sponsor heard me say that I would be I wasted a bunch of ammo on nosalises, which or something. Rugrats season 5 episode 11 Journey to the did these amateurs really think they could We sought shelter in a building of some sort But oh no, it was taken over by bandits! Bourbon offered his body to the guards as ass, and it was up to me to rescue him. You might be able to sneak your way through a distance on unsuspecting targets. It wasn't long before I made my way through He made a rooking mistake by taking his eyes Everyone knows you don't kill with your in them. Unless you have dementia, then you kill with it. A new guy showed up, Khan, another Ranger Khan's a sneaky motherfucker, he knows all The ghost of Thomas the Tank engine choo-choo'd in the sky, a bunch of almost Endermen attempted voodoo shit scared them off real good, then The all-powerful energy ball that once called simulation game: A-Train 8. Deeper into the tunnel, I died after running pretty light, I did it anyway, fought off the trigger a couple hundred times just to a train car, and as expected the guards needed And of course when I say "our help" I Things went south pretty quickly after my it out. Retrieve the can of gas, plant it inside something I accidentally interrupted an execution in The guy who lead the way was a real trooper. Right when he was about to die he gave me It was a nice gesture on his part, I still nice. Andrew the Blacksmith assumed the role of he gave me a new uniform, then I may have recording. I say that because there are things on the Luckily it was't obstructing anything important. All I did was buy ammo and sneak onto a wheel After falling off the wagon, I had to fight This was rough, but I gritted my teeth and I stabbed one guy in the neck and everyone common complaints about this game, that the all it takes is one person to see you and Something else I noticed here is that there one headshot to kill, and that's pretty By the time I was through the first segment, With all the corpses and various locations This is without a doubt the most challenging A fully decked out revolver is a solid weapon, Early on in the game you can resupply fairly though, starting around here, you don't You have what you have and that's it. On the cooler side of the tracks I found a who I'm fighting by the way. It took me a good 30 minutes to get past this Generally, my tactic here was to be as accurate missing even a few shots would screw me down last checkpoint just because I knew I'd It's like having kids, if you make a mistake I did try closing my eyes and running through girl. Didn't work. Just like in real life, getting shot slows Eventually I found out that there was a path away the soldiers one by one, the cover let detected, and with a few bullets to spare, I got sidetracked a bit by a pretty red light They had all the gear in the world and they Rest assured my kindergarten teacher will Guess what, I'm not done yet. More Nazis. This section wasn't as bad. There were fewer of them here as well as a from. I quite literally had no ammo after I got wake up with a gun pointed at me. Of course the bad guys had to point the gun allowing some new Russian guy to rescue me. The shoelace is on the other sandal this time. But it was all good because I found 4 whole In an unfortunate twist, those bullets won't What came next was an on-rails shooter segment. We tried to cosplay our way past the Nazis. Didn't work, we were found out. I thought that maybe I'd be able to get I couldn't. It's like the assault on Fort Mercer in I had no option to not use the machine gun. I use it or I don't proceed farther into You would think that this would be easy, just No, my first wife was easy, this is not, mostly Right stick looks up and down, left stick way around, doesn't matter. I'm going to assume that this was intentional this giant gun. This is video game good game after all, realism After that thrilling nightmare, my night vision about that battery charger. Then the gang and I passed through a station You know what's worse than using that machine An on-rails shooter section where I can only It's just... it's so bad. God smiled down at me and made that only last Everything changed when the mole people attacked. At least a dozen of them. I had fewer than 10 shots left so I stuck My tour guide forgot his debit card in the alone. Pavel was the guy's name. All that was left to do was crawl through station. Finally, I could stock up on supplies, take No... no, no, no. Not even close. The station was attacked and I was on call I sat in the corner and didn't shoot unless The other guys could be eaten alive for all I had my 4th or 5th aneurism and when I came Soldier guy tasked me with broadcasting an Silver linings and whatnot, I was able to being attacked. An exciting new problem is the mole hole. Here's a tip: if you're in an area overrun Some kid learned about death the fun way, up. For real though, Artyom is a freak. He let this kid climb on his back without Also the movement gets real loosey-goosey But, because kids dying in video games is to deal with, I saw the sky again, returned my 3 revolvers, and fell face first into the Outside, were many more Nazis. This was tougher than I anticipated because I had plenty of ammo, the issue was one of A wheel-chair bound 6 year old with pool noodle a problem. Virtual Nazis are something else entirely, After a few attempts I started attacking from removed them all from this dimension, and Again, not easy. The conservation of ammo is always of the The more shots you miss, the more paranoid swell up from all the stress and affects your To be honest, there isn't a whole lot to It's just a bunch of trial and error, trying to avoid being detected. By now you're probably tired of hearing If you run out, there's a good chance you A considerable amount of time passed and I I looked for any signs of Mater, he was nowhere The flying demons can be a nuisance, but they long as you avoid that path you should alright. All was good, I was back indoors with a new Or... an old friend. He's Ulman, I don't know if that tells He gave me a neat silenced automatic rifle More of the same was next. Close quarters, little ammo, lot of people The only upside is that the enemies are spread or 4. Take out one group in one area then move on It's time consuming and annoying as all amounts of bullets, but's not impossible. Turning off the generator cuts the power and fire from the shadows with a lesser chance I got through the station, had a heart attack of spring, this is the closest you're gonna enjoy it, and at long last, I made it to Polis Fuck that, he's dead he doesn't matter, buy more ammo. Miller looked like someone, Maybe Squidward? No, probably not him. As expected, the council refused to help my Miller had a plan, we're gonna skip World 5 is a prequel and doesn't count, and launch This game though, this fucking game man. I had all the ammo in the world and what happens? I'm swarmed by mole people at the Library's Miller arrived after I had wasted most of way. I'm not allowed to experience pleasure. Nobody gets me, so if you'll excuse me, listening to Pain by Three Days Grace while ... I will say this about the Library, it got You should always look for the silver linings. You may have gotten hit by a drunk driver is kinda neat. Not $8000 for a 3 minute ride neat, but still Getting into the depths of the Library involved a group of mole people attacked, a giant feral had to retrieve the D6 map on my own. This was the most stealth-oriented part of There are these big, like, zombie sorta gorilla The Wiki calls them Librarians which is fair, One did the classic horror movie move of grabbing Then it assaulted me in the next room and his body. I hit him with 2 or 6 shots, didn't seem Practically speaking, I can't kill them. But when all was lost, combat parrot returned back and I thought I was getting a Pixar moment, it. It killed me real quick. The next time around I ignored it and ran I kept creeping my way through the Library, even the sound of a collapsing stone staircase One tried to corner me in an office, it didn't I evaded it, checked a bunch of drawers in of all time, got the map, made my way out mustard or whatever his name is, and we rode The military guys here were so nice. They gave me free weapons, supplies, and ammo. Khan was here. I said "hi", Miller said we were headed Brain problems struck again. They asked me if I was okay and I naturally The inability to speak is a telltale sign A new toy was given to me here: a fucking I didn't use it. Seemed horrifically impractical against a tunnel. I got by just okay with my revolver. Comrades did a lot of the work for me. Yeah, I had very little ammo left, but I've This fuck spammed me with invites to play I'm a real gamer, I play Roblox. The dungeons here were fun. There was hardly any revolver ammo but it There were a bunch of military guys with me. All I had to do was run in circles while they Each area progressively got larger and more into the building. I got hit a few times, but that was about One guy got dragged into the darkness and I too plan on laughing when I die. Laughing at the bottom of the ocean will be it work. We found the door to D6, I went under the side. I was alone again, naturally. And to make matters worse, scorpions crawled They're fast, take more than a few bullets So I didn't. Like all things that have the potential to away. Once I reunited with the crew, a train saved depths of the facility. Now we're in the thick of it, we're at The center was gross. There was fog everywhere, more fog than I That was a fun time. Fog is more fun than snow. Wilbur or whatever his name is told me to we played simon says where he said to do a and the four of us rode a smaller trolly down Then it stopped. The littlest train you've ever seen brute tried to activate the missiles but there was fix it. Those bloopy things from Super Mario Sunshine here. They're also suicidal. But it just so happens that Miller can't I stayed back as far as I could while those I had to conserve my ammo in case their suicidal something that resembled a slug. I wouldn't be able to go on if that happened. One more elevator ride got us down the the feeds on the reactor. I shot it once and determined that it is immortal, To get the thing back online, I had to play I wasn't lowering the grabber low enough The next time I did things properly and lifted With day almost saved, Miller and I rode towards The Tower. Where it all began, only this time I have rifle. I used more of my ammo than I should have, I got saved by my only remaining comrade. I repaid him by shooting nothing and running If it worked in the civil war it should work There were three of these sections where we were brave enough to break away from the pack. He pressed onward and didn't defend me like I then did what I thought was smart: I ignored assuming that if I waited long enough the Well, he never did. The monsters weren't allowed inside by the for me, not that it mattered since I couldn't I reloaded the checkpoint to try again, attempted time, then he teleported back to the other This time, I fought the monsters and stayed Then something insta-killed me. Then it happened again. Even with all of the nosalises dead, one spawned A glitch, it would seem, that was verified I had to reload the chapter, which mean starting I immediately ran towards certain doom to And again, misfortune has its benefits as I fired a few shots in each of the mole people I don't know... show God that I was willing This time, we got through the nosalises in ripped out some part of the elevator, and I almost fell off, but almost doesn't count Chutes and Ladders. I jumped off to see what would happen, as the tower to reach Miller. This parrot tackled him into the wall, he I was right next to him when it happened, As usual, I must go it alone. The ladder began falling apart as I climbed This was easier than what I imagined the end Being up so high, I expected to be fighting That didn't happen. It was some basic platforming accompanied one of my many strokes. I did throw some dynamite though, I figured to use it for the first time. Finally, I reached the top, planted the target to transfer me to a dream. Endermen were everywhere and there puzzles. A survival horror first person shooter ends They're not even good, all you're doing whatever direction to avoid the red light A few jumps are necessary, if you mess up circle. At very beginning I was told "if it's what I did. With my trusty revolver I fired 3 shots into confused because I my hands were green, I played, showing the missiles landing and obliterating not beat Metro 2033 with only a revolver.