- These are the most - Ever. - This thing right here costs $1 million and this costs $10 million. This costs $250 million. - I can't comprehend- - And this costs half a billion dollars. - My brain's going to break. - And we're going to start it all off with the $200 Supreme brick. It's a normal brick, just which represents just how This is a $5,000 massage chair. - What? - I think Carl actually I don't mean to expose him. - To be fair, if there's anybody who needs it's Carl. He constantly begs My hands hurt. - This pen right here is a $10,000 pen. - $10,000 for a pen. What, does it write the essays for you, do all your homework, all your chores? Like $10,000? Hey, look at this, 10 cent. That's all you need. - These are the Nike shoes they are $15,000 and they tie themselves. I'm going to be honest, I thought they were - So these are newer they're like worth in the - That's what I thought. All right, so now, this - What? - $40,000? - Do you think it makes your aim better? 'Cause there's always the joke, the better chair, the better the aim. It looks comfy at least. Look his feet even sit up. - Okay. Footrest. I'll pay 40 grand. - The fact that it also is pretty cool too. Shut up, I'm gaming in my scorpion chair. - So this is a hotel where a - Per night? That's insane. - I mean, you could buy like a Corvette live off of- even look like it's worth 75- - Yeah. - Like, what makes this - Why spend $75,000 on a hotel room when you could probably just spend like $5,000 on a really nice penthouse suite and just keep the other 70 grand. - If Mr. Beast thinks you're officially way too - So this is footage from $150,000 camera. - Ooh, this looks like a movie. Except for a really boring movie about a guy singing on a I mean, I'm sure if Tareq was here, he could tell us why this yada yada. - It's pretty high quality. - It is really good but I'm not a camera nerd But you know what I am, gold shirt nerd. This guy's got a gold shirt. That is insane. I've actually heard the Do you know what ended - No. - Really? and he died 'cause of it. - This is why I don't wear gold shirts. - Is that the only reason, or? - Yeah. I totally have - That's fair. He does look like a baller The mustache is cooler - You can either buy this golden shirt or you can buy a ticket to here you go. This is footage from when and this is the same ship for a quarter milli.. - A quarter of a milli? - A quarter milli. - It's the last . - This, I will not let you hate on this. This is cool. - I know, I definitely want to do it but only a minute for a quarter milli? - I'm just going to stop you right here, going to space is epic. If you grinded your whole life and you want to go to - Here's the thing I want to go to space, but I don't want to pay that much money. - I got you. - You got me? - I got you. - We're going to space. So this is a PSA 10 Charizard. - Things I care about. That's so cool. - I remember like a year ago these were going for like a hundred grand and now they're up to like $369,000. - It was all because of Logan Paul. He created the Pokemon hype. That makes people really - Oh, got you. - I enjoy doing that. - Fun fact, I actually bought I got a $50,000 Blastoise I only paid 11 grand for. This was half a million dollars. It's that Dragon Ball character, right? - Beerus from Dragon Ball Super. The God of destruction. - I've never watched Dragon Ball. Imagine you come home with that, what's your wife saying? - She's saying, &quot;Go on, take it back now&quot;. That is so cool though. This is the watch I've always wanted but will never own. - What's so special about this watch, that you can't afford? - It shows you which It's actually incredibly The time is literally on the other side. This right here, that's the time. The rest is just all astrology. - I don't want it. You can have it. I give 'cause I don't want to buy it. - Pull the trigger on it Scotty. - Shut up. There's a $700,000 RV on the screen. - Not sure why I had to I'm going to become an old man that tours around the country That's all I want in life, dang it. - I mean, if it's this RV. - How much is it? - 700 grand. - Ho, I forgot this is an expensive video. - Well, we actually haven't - 700 grand? - There are stuff in this video that costs like 700 times more than this. - That's unfeasible. - This is an Apple one computer. - I will say that for a collector, this is worth, this is a piece of history. This isn't just a remake, this is the one that Steve - All right, well now I'm - But look at that keyboard, they made it out of a wood, bro. That's so insane. - So this is a $1 million toilet. Hold up, before I show you this toilet, I need to go use my toilet. I'm back. Let's look at - The 18 Karat toilet, titled, &quot;America&quot;, and is a jab at the - If I buy that toilet, can Sorry, go ahead and sneeze. Do I have permission to talk? - You can talk. - Can I charge people a thousand dollars to poop on my toilet? If I could get- You know what, just- - I'm just going to stop. I'm moving on. - We had the Super Mario 64. We're going to sell, at $1.3 million. - For a copy of Mario 64, sealed. There is nothing special about it, it's not a limited version. - And this dude's just holding it. - I mean, you could - I wonder if people are going in like a hundred years. - This account has this ghoul trooper. - This phone has Flappy Bird on it, 5 billion dollars. - I still have an iPhone with the original Flappy bird on it. - A lot of people do. - Now, something worth the money. - These two puppies right here, I guess they're more dogs, are worth $2 million. - I don't like the price and I don't like selling but they're so freaking cute. This tennis shoe, very - And it's worth $2 million. - But don't smell them. - Now that I'm crying, how's worth $2 million, when a toilet that's 10 times bigger, it's worth only $1 million? Now we got a $3.2 million dollar piano. - That is beautiful. - Is it made out of gold, or? - It's made out of crystal. And it plays itself. I was going to say, oh, it plays itself. - Look at that, it's worth- - Hey, that or it comes with a ghost. - Or it comes with that guy. - If it comes with that guy, - I am going to buy it if He looks like a very nice man. - Hey Chris, that's cool and all, but hey, this is a $5 - Yo. Okay, now you got me. - I wonder what this - And he still manages to have Funko Pops. - He's a collector. - That's not a collector piece. Those are just toys. - Hey, hey. Collect these nuts. Think twice before you - This is the only thing on this list that is actually worth it's Kurt Cobain's guitar. - This is a $6 million guitar. Who is Kurt, Kur, Court, - Kurt Cobain was part of a very influential group called Nirvana. This is the last guitar he played. - You know it's cool is wearing white gloves. Oh wait! - A gold Bugatti. - I didn't know Gold Bugattis existed. - What is this, Grand Theft Auto 5? - Oh my God. - I would just, my butt while driving. - How do you let people near that? Oh, of course this is in the UK. Look at that clip of that So doing a hit and run is never okay, but you accidentally - Gone. - Your insurance bill could be like millions of dollars. - You just get out of your car, you run in the woods and This is a $21 million wine collection. - What is this, a YouTuber? Because apparently YouTubers - Not me, I've never drank alcohol. - Me neither. - You were drinking five minutes ago. Because I've never drank alcohol before, I don't really understand the appeal. - As somebody who has had some of the most expensive wine, because I know you, expensive wine does have a different taste and I really love it. I don't know, is it - Well that was for a lot. - Here's a $24 million diamond, that's on a rapper's forehead. - Lil Uzi Vert. - This is perfect timing for Chandler, Chandler loves this guy. We're reacting to Lil Uzi Vert's $24 million diamond on his forehead. - I know exactly what it looks like. - Oh, there it is. - Wow. - Beautiful pink diamond. - He does know what it is. $24 million. Has someone tried to steal it yet, Chan? - I doubt it. I don't know. - He has to wear it all the time, right? 'Cause it's like- and then he put it back in. - Chandler, are you trying to get a $24 million diamond on your forehead? - I think it's pretty cool. I hung up on him. This is a 35 million private island. You get to it by plane. - 19 acres, that's huge. 6,500 square foot house, two beaches. I guess that's how islands work. They do have two sides. - All islands have two beaches. - Yeah. $35 million? Can we do the island - How many view are we on? No. - No, we cannot. Look at that sky though, - So this is the $50 million - They have their own I had to pay extra just - I need some more context. I'm not seeing $50 million. - Here's the thing, you've never had a wedding before, I have. I can understand why this is $50 million. They were like charging me for air. - You can understand why it's $50 million? - Everything you do at a They're like, &quot;Do you want to That'll be 30 extra thousand They had to build a What? How do you mean you - If you told me that was There's just something This is a quarter of a - Jimmy, not just any diamond, The Hope diamond. It was the one that was - How do you know all this? - I retain a lot of - Oh, probably 'cause it's - Well, yeah, but. - This diamond survived and is worth $250 million. - It was featured in the movie. - So this is a $450 million painting by Leonardo DiCaprio. - There's a- - Leonardo DaVinci. - Okay. That's the painting of Jesus. Fun fact, people thought that was Jesus, but he actually used his lover as representation to make Jesus. - Fun fact, those guys are How do you become one of those - It looks like you just with a dollar sign on it and- - Oh. - Wait, so what is this? - What's an Airbus? - Oh, what? Whose plane is this? - It's like a RV mixed with I bet those chairs are super comfy. - Wow. - Could you imagine A life where you have - What do you mean, Jimmy? We all know you have a gold You rich jerk. - I'm doing it wrong. I need to stop giving away all my money so I can buy cool stuff. Oh, there's more. I thought that was the - No! - All right, apparently - Jeffrey Bezos. - Jeffrey's is only $500 million I think. - What a poor piece of crap. - Yeah, I don't think - What? Jeffrey Bezos is so poor. What a nerd. - Oh my god, dude, that's a beautiful- - That's a full size You're on the world's and you have probably the That's double the pool. - If there's one takeaway from this video, I need to stop giving away money so I can start buying cool stuff. 'Cause this is making me jealous.