It's the fastest hunk It made the Kessel Run Han Solo's modified is one of the most famous I'm Mike with Total headed to a galaxy far, far away didn't know about the But before we dive in, to Total Nerd for all The Falcon is a YT-1300 cargo freighter. The top choice for was durable and customizable. During the Clone was owned by the known as the stellar envoy. She was built at CEC orbital owned by the Corellian more than 90 years before the Han Solo hails It's a massive and Corellians were for their skill with building Aside from ships, CEC also weapons systems like the and escape pods such as That giant radar dish allows Its hardware allows them to before they know in order to stay undetected. During the Battle of of the Death Star, Lando managed the Falcon. Fortunately, a new is present when the Falcon is Its computer was made from brains, including Lando's The ship originally had a which is the same used by The Millennium Falcon's gyro were heavily modified of a slam overdrive energy for acceleration bursts. According to Ralsius Paldora, hyperdrive failed than the one on the The Falcon's combination and maneuverability of the star fighters fielded by The Falcon's only is its sheer size in although it sure was able to slug and the Death Star. The Falcon's improved allows her to go for one of the fastest in the galaxy. And of course, she in less than 12 parsecs. Han Solo bragged the Falcon 0.5 past lightspeed, which miles per second. At that speed, the Falcon and exit the solar system Originally, the Falcon for up to six passengers. The Millennium Falcon By the year 0BBY-- that's before the the YT-1300 model was Other models of include the YT-1300P, and the YT-1300F, which was The Falcon was of Pontoons could be fitted to the There were both inflatable The now iconic blue curved sublight engines and makes it one of the in the galaxy under Chewbacca loves Dejarik, see being played in A New Hope. Chewy was a champion of the game and requested the game be Let the wookie win. During a game of lost all of his credits and Han won the game the Falcon, which at the time Han cheated. Lando cheated too though. If you look closely, during cube in Star Trek can see a familiar shape Turns out, John Knoll, worked on first contact right special editions. Ben Bert, sound used the sound from the plane for the Falcon, recording and playing them back slightly its iconic sound. Tom's first trip in the After winning the Solo flew the ship where Chewbacca was to be Mallatoback. Even though he's married, a life debt, which is why Although not a life felt bad enough for to let an entire family of them Although the porg may have annoyed Chewy they seem to have done no damage Owners of the Millennium Lando Calrissian, Gannis Ducain, The Falcons ownership because the ship's identi-plate Solo's smuggling efforts. There's no documentation but there's plenty claim the vessel was both by members of the Jedi before When fresh off the came equipped with one and had a max speed New, it would cost you 100,000 Each owner made their own tweaks including the iconic robe The fork-shaped mandibles were originally for The original purpose is why the ship's design to the right-hand side. The main sensor dish is to avoid blind spots. The Corellian manufactured dozens of but the Falcon was due to its ability to be In fact, due to its and ease of is the most widely used cargo Other CEC models include the YT-2000 and the YT-45A. Elon Musk named his after the Millennium Falcon, the Falcon 9 rocket, which is and launching satellites. The Falcon includes sensor-proof which can be very Those compartments were used Leia Organa to evade on the first Death Star. During the Battle able to sneak up behind Darth Luke to fire the proton torpedo Star. At the Battle of Endor, the ship entered the and destroyed it from as the space station exploded. In the time following imperial turncoat noted that 2.2 out of were aware of the Despite its fame, the ship for years on Jakku under a of mass-produced and model out there. Almost three decades and long before it fell the Millennium Falcon was used The ship has had a After the sensor dish was lost the dish was replaced which was originally Since the Falcon was passed they all made their which came at the The Falcon is known to suffer is why you see Han and Chewy The Falcon could fly of 1,200 kilometers per hour in space. She has the ability to into and out of a planet's of how dumb an idea that is. The Falcon can escape the as demonstrated in Unlike the USS Enterprise, is confirmed to have for when you need to make run of your own. The ship measures 34.75 meters. That's 114 feet long. That's five times longer When docked on land, the as an upright AT-ST. The capacity is enough to carry 100 metric tons. Someone is building a The fan, named Chris Lee, the structure in a Chris has been working on the to finish. The ship originally had a but the design's similarity in Space 1999 prompted Lucas The original Falcon model and used as Princess Leia's George Lucas' inspiration was-- and this is true-- George Lucas' only guidance to think flying saucer. But Johnston decided and make it more unique Johnston was able to for the first model of the He considered the project to The original Falcon was of multiple internal and All those switches were non-functional, meaning and, when flipped, would limply The team used Ferrari to fill the gaps between of the original model. A full-scale version was not built until The Force Awakens. Eagle-eyed fans were this first full-scale before filming at For The Empire Strikes Back, version of the Falcon by Macron fabrications under That ESB model was built, and reassembled for filming of the ship taking off. Today, the almost is on display at Pembroke dock about the project. New models, both were created for except for Return used a matte painting of A digital version of the on Corsa in Revenge of has confirmed that not simply another Kenner, Hasbro, Steel Code 3 Collectibles, have all released Millennium including a transformers' Kenner's Falcon, along with were the very first to be Kenner employees hard to finish the were used to create the so that the ship could be sold And again, employees thousands of new Falcons in had waned. The Kenner Falcon originally But it's now in mint in the box, frequently LEGO has released 13 Millennium LEGO Falcon sets range in The 2017 LEGO Star Wars ultimate Falcon, with 7,541 bricks, is by the company. Of the 25 largest eight are within the Star Wars That USC Falcon has been and goes for over five in some secondary markets. In 2019, two full-sized were built for the Star at Disneyland and Walt A third full-scale model was Paris resort in 2019 as well. Those dice seen hanging have major significance to Han. Although the back story has acquisition of of them being tied As a child, Ben with the dice while his father, listened that one day he would After being absent from since a New Hope, the and then had a significant Replicas of the dice are of antiquities in Black Spire There you have it. 100 things that you about the Millennium Falcon. What did you think? What was your favorite fact? Did we miss anything? Let us know in the comments, and subscribe so any of our super nerdy I'm Mike Plako, and may