(computer beeping) - [Narrator] If you were in around 2006, there was a brief moment in time where making one simple typo, would crash your computer beyond repair. (computer buzzing) This typo was Goggle. The word had gone for a couple of years, going unnoticed by most But as the worldwide web and more respected websites came in, more people started to notice it and saw just how Such a simple word, Goggle was basically instantly killing the who simply typed it in. This wasn't just annoying popups, this was something that At least that was the word You see Goggle was widely A subject that got so popular, it led to the creation of and a legal dispute. But now, pretty much no Just a couple of articles and forums, but that's about it. Everything else has seemingly Even the Wayback Machine from being archived on their database. It's almost like the internet, does not want you to know about Goggle, just because of how These circumstances have with mostly ambiguity, some recalling the website Others passing it off as an internet hoax, at least the media depicting it. Consequently, Goggle has since become frozen in the era it was conceived. But was the story of goggle.com where online record keeping Or was it something much darker? Now, before we investigate the strange story behind goggle.com, here is a word from our sponsor. Kamikoto produces beautifully that make user convenience and ease of use top These knives are created perfected with century to make handcrafted knives. And these knives are working at Michelin star restaurants. Kamikoto only uses Japanese steel, sourced from prefectures such as Niigata, Ibaraki and Kanagawa with each blade designed using methods that have been mastered by but not only that, Kamikoto also prioritizes as each knife comes in a I truly love how elegantly which makes them a great gift. And each blade goes through that produces a polished, sharpened and excrutiatingly fine edge. As you can clearly see, I am by no means skilled but even I noticed how and how seamless it was for instance. Kamikoto is so dedicated to that each knife is individually inspected and comes with a lifetime guarantee. The best part, Kamikoto is currently by using the code or visiting you can get an additional that you purchase. Now that is a steal, no pun intended. So, get that special someone, a special gift with Kamikoto. In order to really and devastating nature behind goggle.com. We first need to focus how it functioned and how both these things work together to lead to its prominence. To really get into comprehensive detail, we need to trace back As you could imagine, this will be quite difficult with the limited information out there, but there really is only a few There's no definitive answers, but we can infer on when The actual domain for goggle.com appears to have been registered on This is actually a that I will get into in a minute. The website appeared to have been dormant for around six years, until it reportedly according to very few sources. What's interesting is of this website ever and all internet archive sites, either have the website blocked or simply didn't keep record For all we know goggle.com, could have been some geo And whether it was bought or started off that way is a mystery. You might not know a whole lot about how the website came to be, but just from visiting it was pretty clear what So, what was the point of goggle.com? Why did it exist? You probably guessed it from a mile away, but if not, I will fill you in. Goggle.com served as what we which is exactly how it sounds, any user who misspelled google.com, looking for the search engine, as you would imagine, would sometimes end up And the user may not even realize it for a couple of seconds, giving the website a brief whatever it wanted. Of course there were a ton of misspelling Google, but Goggle was one of And this role that the website had is undeniably what made it As I mentioned, there isn't any evidence that goggle.com was in fact malicious in 2004, except for some claims But the timeline does add up. In 2000 Google was exploding and on its way to becoming on the web. And in 2004, the company had officially gone public. This was a very important year for Google and only got its name out there even further. At this point in time, most people knew what Google was, but just barely for the people who still didn't use the internet at that time, like very young children or the elderly for example. It was just that search website that started with a G. Some of these people might have remembered the site as being called "Goggle" and went there instead. So that's probably why it existed. To fool people, like you and me, back in the 2000s who, at the time, probably only had a general idea of what Google was, and just by a clumsy thumbsy or a faulty memory, might have typed in this address instead. These are all educated guesses of course and there's no proof, but they could be good explanations for why Goggle.com got so popular. It is possible that the site owner saw this growing trend and took advantage of it, it's actually quite a brilliant scam but we simply don't know. There were two possibilities, either people were looking for Google thinking it was called Goggle, or they just typed it in wrong. Either way, it worked, because ultimately the website was misleading Google users, or was it? Was Goggle.com actually a typosquatting site? Or was this just a coincidence. This is when the domains Take a look at it, early 1998. Why is this important? Well, the actual Google's just five months prior. Keep in mind that Google was still in prototype phase at this time and didn't even officially almost a year later. in 1998, you still had dominating the web like Yahoo or Dogpile, Google was just getting started. So, why would a website some obscure search engine This information alone, could support the was just a normal website at this time. After all goggle is a real word. It's not just a strange misspelling. Perhaps the website was when people saw the or maybe goggle.com was but never had any motive The name was instead just a coincidence and a similarly spelled website, just becoming insanely led to a perfect storm of circumstances. But regardless of the that's what it ended up becoming. The odds of such a typo were slim, but the small chances that So, what did goggle.com do to its victims? Well, a lot. Things that today due to better security and more advanced software or flat out impossible. For example, the moment you even joined it would instantly download and install dozens of Some of which were at least according to legend. Luckily now we have popup and user account control, makes sure that these things but that feature was which hadn't come out yet. In 2006, most people were using Windows XP or even 9X Windows. They didn't have the security and resources available to them that would be provided in Windows Vista. Goggle.com took advantage of that, if you were some layman computer user, running Windows XP and you weren't going to be victim to this. And this was exactly the kind of people, a site like this was targeting, the clumsy and the gullible. It was essentially a more discreet version of a drive by download, a download that the user But this is just the superficial What's really interesting about goggle.com is that it wasn't just some single, really sophisticated computer even though it might appear that way. It was basically a ton of working together to cause Kind of like the, ILOVEYOU worm, Goggle.com was pretty much conglomerate of malicious software, resulting in a bunch of moving that pretty much had a mind of its own. The pop-up ads were there to annoy you and distract you from that was surreptitiously which leads to the next question. What made goggle.com so dangerous? Well, Goggle did something pretty unique to other contemporary It took advantage of a very big exploit that was present in Windows at the time. The WNF exploit, short WMF files were basically image files where whenever you opened one, a bunch of computer commands, would essentially start constructing colors, lines and shapes to compile the image together, so that you can see it Well, one of the many components that helps run these commands, a particular DLL file with printers and monitors, had a vulnerability in it that basically caused the file to panic and allow it to execute So, all a programmer had to do was create an image file were the moment a user clicked on it, it immediately downloaded a this actually happened with where millions of users clicked and unknowingly downloaded spyware, because of this exploit, there was almost no protection Remember all those pop-up ads? Well, if you accidentally to get rid of it or whatever, you would end up downloading SpySheriff. This program probably but Goggle was able to mass SpySheriff was malware that pretended to be an antivirus program. It would lie, saying that you have all on your computer and would to remove them. This was perfect timing You just visited a suspicious website. And after leaving, you have an alert saying For a non-experienced computer user, they might think this is legitimate and from built in Windows and thus granted permission During the installation process, SpySheriff would mess with registry keys and install itself in a way that would pretty much bake it, into your operating system. It would block your where the only accessible It would create administrator accounts, without your consent and change It would change your background If you tried uninstalling SpySheriff, it would just show back up. And if you kept on uninstalling it, it would crash your whole computer and give you a blue screen of death. The program will get to the point where your computer is unusable, where you can't even open system restore. You better have a backup, because quite often your only option left, would be to completely It truly is incredible how has essentially destroyed The WMF exploit would be patched in Windows Vista and onward, but what's even more interesting is that the exploit mostly such as Windows XP. So, if you went on goggle.com you were doomed, but ironically, if you were on Windows 98, you were much safer. And that is how simply in goggle.com and pressing enter could do to your computer. And when people caught onto this, oh, they wanted the world to know. In September, 2006 came what is now the earliest of goggle.coms existence, a McAfee commercial uploaded to YouTube that showcased the website and served as a public service about being safe online. And with it came both and personal challenges. People were now filming whether as a dare or Well, a lot of these computers in these videos were running Vista and it is also important to keep in mind that patches for the WMF were already officially in January of 2006. The McAfee commercial could And there is no way of knowing are running the patched So, that could explain because even then people one side saying it was the other side saying it was real and providing anecdotal evidence. In retrospect, the McAfee commercial between fact and folklore, but regardless goggle.com, quickly developed a negative reputation. And Google was going to put a stop to it. After initially declining Google attempted to legally But to their surprise, As Goggle was not considered I mean, goggles are a And in 2011, a settlement decision was made that the owners could keep the domain, but with stipulations. With the evolving technology and being under strict surveillance, goggle.com became less of a threat. There was even a way to to automatically revert if you ever made this typo. As a result of dwindling notability the website continuously changed owners, becoming a survey website becoming a survey website becoming a fake flash player downloader, becoming a blank HTML page, becoming a fake polling website. And then in 2020 becoming which currently doesn't After all these years, it seems that Goggle may have It is arguably one of the strangest pieces of malware history as evidence that there is no evidence, not a whole lot, both due to censorship Malware, so mysterious that many people even back then, weren't even sure it was real. See, I went on the website Well, you have antivirus software. So, of course nothing happened. No this website is not fake. It damaged my computer. A mystery that could have by just one bug fix. Goggle.com serves as a great example of the butterfly effect, the story of how one created an internet urban hopefully to be revisited to learn more about how much as well as how much it We could talk about goggle.com all day, but what would it have looked like to actually visit the website? Well, let's see. (gentle shimming music) (keyboard clacking) (upbeat music) (keyboard clacking)