The 2000s might just have been the weirdest definitely reflects that. This is Every 2000's Era It may be all about superheroes, but even 2001's JUSTICE LEAGUE isn't Something to Wonder About fan of the opposite sex at first-she has been responsible for everything bad in the viewpoint-when she comments that they can't the latter responds "don't knock it And just like that, a mind is opened Wonder Woman flirtatiously says that she'd love out later, it's safe to say he had more Flash's Sympathies Lantern manage to rescue the latter's mentor power ring. Katma offers to return the favor his "emerald impudence." Flash mishears this as "emerald erectile dysfunction." Yeah...nobody Speaking of Green Lantern and Katma... for innuendos. From Flash cheekily describing it really will be "just like old times"--to the push it. We have a feeling that superpowers Not the right time, Lobo believes to be Superman's funeral, Lobo When Wonder Woman tells him he's no "the ladies say different." Hey, if man...but you should know that the actual heroes The Royal Flush Gang! Joker briefly gets distracted by the Queen and or are you just happy to see her? Five-Star Service gives us some backstory on Metamorpho, which stewardess's backside. "Now that's service," he cabooses...AFTER, mind you, asking her out We've all been there, Flash together in a pile, Hawkgirl asks whose hand is man, who hasn't accidentally touched their friend Firefly, Body Positivity Activist When Volcana comments on Firefly's Firefly defends his less-than-impressive use it." To quote the great Shrek himself...do Keep it professional, Deadshot but implying that Wonder Woman could "make it friends...not sure that's gonna get you laid, buddy. Oh, THOSE kinds of "needs"... needs and wants are often predictable, she misses him. The "excitement," "sense things", to be specific. Truly, the I think we all know where this is going... titular doom again-and when Giganta introduces very appropriate...and that her size will not be a as a suggestive comment, when she grows to saying "this just gets better and better." Hey, Flash's Relationship Woes alive, Hawkgirl immediately crushes his(admittedly can't get a date. Finishing quick is GREAT in Well, he's DEFINITELY trying... even the adults don't know exactly what's being needs a fancy van for-then retracts the statement he going to be hosting some "speed-dating" given the van's groovy decorations? Wouldn't crack him even faster? ....And, most importantly, A Royal Night to Remember her plans for the evening, which includes "going mean...you know what? There's definitely worse ways mind went to less-than-savory places when her met a woman who can do the things for me that she As we continue our journey into the past, We only have one truly dirty joke here... a Scotsman tells Jack-in disguise as "Brent"--that your wife is on it. This adult joke transcends implying here-but joking about his wife being on Now it's time for a neverending playdate with the Grim Reaper-next is THE GRIM Hang in there , Baby! involving Billy's dad referencing the most he sees a cute cat hanging on for dear life. Billy's Mom into a child, she has a hard time convincing his real mother is "ancient and grappling with it hurts, Billy...more than anything, I think "Roger, I'm Pregnant!" TV-in one of his shows, a woman tells someone he responds that it's the she is SINGLEHANDEDLY keeping the A different kind of toy story the little triceratops dude reveals that his but to be a go-go dancer. This is a term used for says it's to "shake his booty for the ladies," You guessed it, Cut-off Swearing honestly, Billy and Mandy's is one of Grim warns Irwin not to "make him off by Irwin saying "AS(s) I was saying". They when you think about it-you gotta give credit Worst Doctor of the Year him to Dr. Ted, whose solution is a brown paper but it's worse when he apologizes for not As anyone who's watched Family Guy knows, way to suffocate if you're not careful...meaning himself. I know Sperg is a bully, but...come The Perks of being a Prank Caller his time as Cthulu's prank caller. This causes weird sucker, only for Billy to remark that chicks Just because he's Death doesn't Wrong Website, Grim Secret Snake Club's website, he's instead seems to be some sort of primate-themed but honestly? We wouldn't even say adults Could you be more blatant? what I call doggy style" as a picture of a silly an eye. Adults, on the other hand, would likely be say a sex position's name on the show. Y'all would Good try, Irwin for Mandy...so when he asks her to hold his hand so knows where that hand has been. And believe In fact, let's go to his origin story half-undead(I think? Not sure how that a literal mummy. His dad claims that leaving "a whole lot of questions that don't self-aware. It's still, like, 3 different Oh, that's normal here? and Eris kiss briefly before the camera cuts and the disgusted reactions of the main trio. human sex noises in this universe. So...does that know what? Like Billy's dad would say, that's Uncle Chokey the Chicken Juggler Rocko's Modern Life-the "Chokey Chicken," which Surely that joke can't get even raunchier, his dream to become a chicken juggler, and his Gotta say, going from a cannibal to a juggler Quite the cameo for Yogi straight out of classic Family Guy, Billy runs Hanna-Barbera cartoon. Their bloodshot it's been a while since they've gotten one of it might be better for them to lay off of When Grim met Sally the classic movie When Harry Met Sally, Grim asks is faking death-a reference to the scene in the a woman is faking an orgasm. I'll have what she's A much more inevitable movie reference censored swears, it's Matrix Willy offers his newest recruit a choice to him showing just how deep the rabbit hole man. I'll gladly listen to your conspiracy He watched WHAT of the orange juice to avoid Mandy's wrath, he of which is "watching his mom and dad's special to do a self-made porno...and if anyone in that He could be watching much worse, though. takes her to see a movie called "Black Beard's she'll let him suggest a movie-since there the raunchy name, we can only conclude that's the case. Surely, this theater children into a porno movie. Surely, For a good time, call... time" with others, it's your business. But maybe on a graffiti-filled door in a cave isn't the just REALLY into bears and/or homeless people, Irwin's Finest Moments the highest honor to some of Irwin's most -Mandy appearing in his bathtub after jumping through a portal, remarking -Shouting "Baby Got BACK!" When he sees And, last but DEFINITELY not least, the just to absolutely violate one half of a you've reached new levels of creepiness Your next mission, should you choose to accept it, is to check out the dirtiest Unique Censorship are blown up by missiles, they manage of their GIGANTIC cartoon hands. See? We Ah, the Point. Good times, good times... up to a place called "The Point" to...um...look, if what's on their mind. As one guy puts it, "you Also- This one guy straight-up begs his par-for-the-course at his age-is definitely one kids-you don't wanna start a war you can't to finish-sorry, sorry, too far. They Operation S.P.A.N.K. little dirty-minded-every Kids Next Door episode INTENTIONALLY suggesting anything dirty. That who just breaks into kids' houses and spanks them? Grandma Lydia was certainly entertained... she's far from turned off by his choice of career. On the contrary...as the credits roll, grandma...but you'll have to break a rule or We wouldn't advise causing too much trouble, Displeased with the Merch based on themselves, Robin is pleased with Beast Boy, after looking into the puppet's into a horse, have them make a puppet of it, "It's real to me, Starfire!" magazine page, often associated with for Starfire's question to reveal Ba-dum tss his claim that his dog is kicking Beast Boy's kicks him with the back end of a horse-therefore, Honorable mention to the time Cyborg told and blow it out his...we'll let you guess Hands off the grebnacks! claws are on her "grebnacks," Beast Boy quickly apologetically. That's nice of him, Batteries not included? I'll be the judge that Robin may be a robot, they decide to take more specifically-and anyone who's heard of a prostate exam knows exactly where that See Less, See-More! When See-More drops the fact Starfire immediately blushes...even an alien knows this says a lot about our socie-okay, no it Blackfire's(potential) Betrayal seemingly embracing, and Blackfire telling him might have stumbled in on something private...until Killer Moth's Dastardly Daughter to prom with his daughter Kitten(no comment on jealousy-complete with a little boob jiggle. Mas y Menos's constructive criticism offer some criticism to the Titans. Their most say a phrase that can basically be translated to We've reached the final leg of and our grand finale is XIAOLIN SHOWDOWN. ANOTHER show asking for the bird? Jack insists that if ANYONE deserves it's him. His opponents would surely Omi is in heat he's on fire-and he knows it. Unfortunately, he turned on by the act of destroying chess pieces. A whole new world of opportunity staff once again, he's excited to-and I before". Given that the screen cuts away any boy above the age of 13 can Be careful, little hands, where you pluck The gang gets turned into potted plants...except fruit of his newly potted buddies. but Clay's plea to be careful what he plucks from And if the anime aesthetic wasn't clear enough... and Omi looks VERY pleased at where he's If you thought Justice League had a lot of raunchy LEAGUE UNLIMITED had under its belt. While the Flash is admiring Fire from afar, ...Brazilian. What? What did just talking with her close Lucid Dreams that feel a bit too real, Green Lantern thinking of Black Canary. You know B'Wanna See My Legs, huh? she's doing while ogling her legs-to which as are the rest of her. "Eyes up here, pal." Oh, you lucky molecule... While the Justice League works to get The Wonder Woman carries him to get him as close as however-which leads to the solution At least Booster's trying When Booster Gold is left to deliver a baby of course) he says they need to boil I don't have much experience with childbirth Huntress and the Question's Fling couples in the series, Huntress and leads to some flirty moments. When he proceeds to stoically list off his Get a room, you two... romance leads to Canary trusting him above anyone him if he "wants to go a few rounds," he's more she meant sparring. Hey, why not both, Man, you ALL need to get a room! In one scene, Vixen pulls Green Lantern into nearly attack her on impulse. When he asks her if her response is simply "promises, promises." That's one way to relax... in Lex's body into a room to "relax," the latter Tala sure seems well rested afterwards-calling him And I hear he's single, ladies! Just...let him Brand-New Date Proposition and responds by offering to "put her in a cage definitely the kinds of thoughts that should Say no to the dress Carter remarks that he misses her beautiful "You didn't miss it last night." Man...why not just Also, whips might have been involved. by Hawkgirls' skills with her whip-mentioning being naked OR whipping your partner Someone call HR on Supergirl members of the Legion of Superheroes, Supergirl was "saving" Brainiac 5 from an attack his belt she straight-up said "maybe I was just trying to Galatea's very "mature" mature herself, her clone Galatea is a Green Arrow, who comments-doubtlessly "mature" than Supergirl. Wow, what Deadshot still has no chill is true to his name. He'll take shots, but they'll talks about blowing up a nuclear reactor-to which join in?" They say you miss every shot you don't Linda Park's Naughty Side sees the Flash go by, she says she'll try to get If she saved any face there, she immediately babe. Like the entire track team at once." You'll Jumping Genetics, Batman! Waller reveals her plan to ensure Batman will DNA is on standby. When she explains she has to quickly specify to a shocked what she meant. Sure...sure it wasn't. Hey, that's species-al profiling! even more so when they recount how much they not like that-when Gorilla Grodd tells Tala, his will," she quickly tells him to go eat a banana. nerve. Never thought we'd see prejudice AND sexual How about we go to somewhere a little less suggestive? This is FOSTER'S The Bloos Brothers Bloo makes an unintentional nod to the "hit it"--the same line from the iconic movie's a mighty screech that sounds like the screeching This reference is even more fitting Several cameos of other Cartoon Network but the most clever of the bunch has to be the like a tiny version of Bubbles, Blossom, An unwelcome surprise buddy to Mac, he isn't always super effective. where he has the brilliant idea to bring his guests in tow. I know he's not the brightest, Hehehhe...bust. the bust of Madame Foster by accident, they have saying that the "bust is sagging to the knows that's not good-a bust that big needs ample means boobs too. The only unrealistic part is Holy Sheets! When Bloo and Mac are trying to Bloo comes up with the brilliant idea of grabbing sheets!" gives Mac a little shock...surely This movie won't threaten it, at least they decide to watch some movies of Frankie's out that it's just a cheesy drama movie was one of those slow-burn ones? this lovely tea you've brought me with money...~" Disappointingly only the ninth entry, "Find something to touch!" telling Kevin to "find something to touch", worded her chest before grabbing a sword? Look, man, the Apparently, the guy has a reputation... space suits, Kevin asks what they're sleeves. Ben responds that he never used with his arms-according to the ladies, is Ben talking to the ladies about what Kevin Albedo's Lament When Albedo is stuck in a copy of Ben's body, sweaty, and he finds himself scratching teenage years...their memory serves as a reminder Ben's Time as a Tester model for a video game using one of those fancy sensors on it. Perhaps this was entirely to "one of my balls fell off." Intentional "Mine's bigger than yours..." Zombozo prepares for battle mallet-that he quickly(and insecurely) but size only matters if you've got the skill to man. Put this guy in a room with King Dedede and The name-oh of our next show is CAMP LAZLO. Okay, let's talk about that finale the most infamously weird in cartoon history. The beloved cartoon into the mix-apparently, Rocko's the camp. As in, not Lumpus. It's made even voice actor-oh, and fun fact, so do Lazlo and Partial Animal Nudity body paint, they all proceed to utterly panic live(albeit animated) TV. Lumpus, I love to tell I don't think you understand what that term means... When the guys are relaxing in a temporary sitting on is too hard. Clearly never Edward recommends rubbing some stool softener Miralax is not a substitute for seat cushions. Beans and Weenies stuff. There's a whole episode called "Beans pun. Mostly "buns" and "weiners"--really, it's episode with the Krusty Dogs. Not overtly sexual, I now pronounce you bestie and bestie Lazlo holds a best-friendship ceremony for to be an allegory for a gay wedding. The just officiated some platonic incest. Anyone Well, there's nothing gay about this one Scoutmaster Lumpus apparently has presumably an attractive moose in-universe. Even is he into mooses? Oh, maybe there Don't Screw With Lumpus the enraged scoutmaster tells Slinkman to "get too-because had Lumpus not specified he needed we would NOT have put it past Lumpus We also wouldn't put foul language past him In one episode, he threatens to call Slinkman talk to him. Not sure if there are slurs for Lumpus is FOR SURE going to be dropping Donkey Censorship...Never gets old When remarking on how the Squirrel Scouts need need a swift kick in the donkey admittedly, we wouldn't expect cursing from A Party in Milt's Pants When the campers are having a party they want the old stick-in-the-mud Edward to get introvert and just not into Milt that way, refuses Feel free to stay a while, because we're Another "buns" joke already? to "grab my enormous buns." Of course, this just to lift his giant steel buns out of the oven...but The Showrunners Don't Trust Fortune Tellers is labeled "Madam B.S." I mean, it COULD be Bullsh*t," maybe you could find out things Like Teacher... is an absolute freak. We can sympathize with some trick men into marrying her is absolutely insane. drown so Schnitzel would give her mouth-to-mouth. Panini's Obsession with Chowder with Chowder was pretty dang uncomfortable at but on steroids and somehow significantly his will, tries to trap him with a baby-that she parenting motivation-and would you believe wanna bet she has a sniper hired to make sure Well, at least these two are happy When Mung finally manages to make up with she tells him it's time to "get cookin'"...and Notice Mung's nose popping up like "Now, I know what yer thinkin'..." nearly puckers him out of existence, Schnitzel literally on a string that's cute--to lasso Elliot-esque accent tells us to keep our minds you know what I'm thinking? Then you and that question is why in the Not that kind of protection of the word "Radda" is truly the ultimate way to Mung Daal's need for "protection"--I.E. reason thought condoms would keep them from being pretty foul mouth, if Chowder's reminders that And just as we suspected... In this infamous scene, Schnitzel tells One Youtube commentor speculates that he's so I gave her the whole fist instead!" I...I mean, what's the joke, though? That's just Well, let's move on from those fists to some Sex Ed with Optimus Prime Fun fact! Did you know there's a child how babies are made? No? We didn't We're nearing the end of today's video, and the second to last stop is They Played Us. about hot dogs saying the word "weiner" a lot was in for a treat. In the episode "Powerless," Major to steal a quantum vacuum...to which Batman says earned that. They earned that dirty, goofy line, And we've got to give the one and It's not exactly dirty, but for a kids' show, it's problem...shouldn't they call themselves the three Well, fittingly enough, our final stop on this adult-humored adventure is THE This job BETTER have insurance benefits working for a mechanical genie on a to fetch him some "fresh lubricant." he's probably talking about some WD-40...if not, and if he insists on this job being done he's Good for you, sir salesman at the market advertises his crabs points for honesty, but I'm not gonna risk buying of crabs he's got. With how nasty most of these "Ooh Ooh Ah Ah" means No living on a lonely island full of only monkeys. needs company...to the point where she tries to If you're having relationship woes, just remember Speaking of Relationship Woes he needs to get back on the saddle, Flapjack kiddo...but there is riding involved-as out there so he can stop being so cranky K'Nuckles-there are plenty of "candy" The poor guy still seems to have little luck both "oiled" and "soiled" every day. for more than a couple weeks, and you'll get a Bubbie, Where do Babies Come From? Flapjack was actually born out of some such innocence has waned-and now I know remember where babies come from. She just Friends in Low Places hole can't be your friend" is bizarre enough. all kinds of friends" and then chugging maple kinda similar, just a little bit...either way, I have no words trying to get his hands on some candy, he So instead, he tells Flapjack to "strip down and he just wanted Flapjack to be able to It's not meant to be suggestive- ........that line is something no Wow, this show really WAS Dock Hag is giving tickets away like a asked why, she reveals that it's "that time of the She LITERALLY straight-up says that's the Cap'n, have you no shame?! a...um...""tradition"" of hanging out with Ignore the suggestive eyebrow wiggling, hand how should we put this delicately...your Candy=Drugs I totally get behind Flapjack using candy candy" being a clear reference to marijuana to it's clear as day what they were going aspects of the show. Would candy wife be Island actually Walter White's meth lab? Is just saying it's candy to protect Flapjack? One