Silent Sitting 1 January 2019 [sound of the bell] Om. Namaste. Welcome everyone For approximately thirty to forty minutes, And again I am reminding you that it is not merely not speaking; that does not equate to silence But more that there is a non-engagement or feeling, memory, projections, desires, And though they may arise as you sit, your attention should not be the thought streams, or the visual streams And especially so when we intend the single source and there is nothing to be done there. But it must be acknowledged by the seeking mind this silent place is its own source and nature. You may sit with your eyes open or closed whatever suits you. It should make no difference at all to the Self. It will not make a difference to what really is. Because even any intention is a movement inside the unmoving Self. With that being said, We will begin now again with this bell and we will close Om. Om. [sound of the bell] Rare it is that one is physically awake meaning it is not connecting with thoughts and feelings in any personal way. Simply noticing that There is no need to force this. The real work, if you want to say, is to keep the attention in the unmoving place. Even the keeping of the attention is not by force. It's not done forcefully. That stillness is there anyway, unkept. Find it. It's not a question of, 'How long can I stay here This is itself a thought. Any thought, any sensation, is easily recognised against the background It is very simple. Whatever you see is measurable, quantifiable. What you cannot see is the Infinite. This you can only be. It is not an object of perception. The very act, or functioning, of perception That which perceives perceiving. Take note of this. It's not an act of becoming something or even unbecoming. This is not a game of stillness. It's just the recognition It is not watched from somewhere else. You are not an object of perception. You are that which is perceiving, but without attachment or need. How long does the silence last in your world? It is not a question Notice that there is just a field of Is-ness. A silence. There is no one being silent. Otherwise, you keep identity You are not waiting. This is not a special thing Bring the mind and attention to your own Self, history-less. Do not cling to anything, no thought, nor feeling. There's nothing to become. Leave everything aside now. Try not to associate with any form, What you discover, you have not created. You are entirely alone, but not as a person, not as an object, not as a shape. Here the play or the flow of thoughts These are waves on the surface of the ocean. Don't identify. Stay as the unmoving one. It is simply a matter of attention. When attention is put on the mind or the person, the personal self, movement, agitation, doing, remaining as the Self ... Whatever comes comes, and is noticed to come and go. You are not in a creative state. Our nature is the uncreated Self. The movements of names, time and form, these are the clouds passing. Don't be concerned about the clouds passing. Remaining as the Self, You have noticed that. There is no need to worry that one must attend to the movements of the mind. So it's not a time for figuring things out. Let go of this habit to hold onto or to develop a relationship Any sense of attachment is not for the Self. Attachments do not improve upon your being. And yet, notice that There's nothing to be obsessed Be in the recognition of the Self, which is a non-phenomenal recognition. Whatever activities take place inside the Mandir, have a start, duration and ending. What in you does not change? Notice. It does not change, yet it never goes stale or stagnant. Ever fresh. The true Self does not experience distraction. Mind, body and the senses when they recognise their source. When the source is recognised, everything unfolds and flows in perfect harmony. Notice this. The sense of personhood wants to be visible. It wants to be something. But the Self cannot be seen in this way. Holding on to thought and shape, name and form, experientially and effectively you become these. Notice only from the place I am pointing to. The movement of time, name, forms and shapes is superficial to the one who sees. And yet even here things unfold smoothly Few in this world pay attention to the Self. Most are engaged with the productions Leave time aside now, and shapes and concepts. Do not be combined with any form. It is so simple, so natural. Hidden, seemingly, only by habit. The Self is without habit. Habits play only in the realm of the person. Notice that activities by themselves They are a natural flow of the vital force in the field of the manifest. It is very simple. It is already so. There is nothing to do or undo. There is nothing artificial. There is no urge to engage with you personally. Apart from what comes and goes, Unforced. Is it not your Self? Yourself, the Self, Is-ness, it is all the same. Consciousness. The timeless one. Struggling to concentrate, it's not you. Trying to be present, it's not you. Noisy mind, it's not you. Having a wonderful day, it's not you. Falling apart, it's not you. Not this. That's all identity. Are you able to hear? Special, it's not you. Is this unbearable? From the pure, you are not an act of creating now. Just being. Do not cling to the habitual activities Though it is noticeable, leave this now. Not clinging to any name or shape, or time, who are you? Any sense of discomfort, for whom is this, except the idea we hold onto The Self is not believing. It simply is. Be in your Is-ness. It is timeless! Therefore there is no strain. You are not one It is only the sense of personhood. The idea, 'I cannot stay in the Self for long', is an idea Notice this. The sense of being free or bound, touching neither of these, you are here. I have endeavoured free from conceptual limitations, unbound and timeless. Because of this you can feel the shaking mind, the discomfort of personhood. And it feels unbearable! Because you are passing beyond these, and paradoxically, you are not moving at all. How strange, going somewhere to find stillness. I would like to ask you to open your eyes. Nothing that you can perceive through the senses Yet there is no need to try and escape. The sense of the moving world how can they be one? And yet there is a harmony, an uncreated harmony, unless we allow the sense of personhood It cannot even be disturbed. Actually, the Self is not a way. It is not a path. It is not a belief. Is it too simple for you? For whom? Is the Self still special? Does it exist in highlights? Look, but don't become what you see. There is nothing to become, except playfully. What concepts are binding us to the world? Don't judge the world. What concepts are binding us to the world? When we have concepts that we are holding onto, that are binding us to the world, Then judgments will come, and fear will come. Aggression will come. Frustration will come. Stay as, and inside, the Is-ness itself, and notice all things flowing by Is this alive in you? Or is it still a striving to reach some place? If we are striving for how long will you be satisfied? Your nature, our nature, There is really no sorrow for you. Now I leave you in the wordless place. So that your world becomes beautiful again, unmolested by the projections of the person. Where is it that we are free of need, of neediness? And yet, my words are not fully understood. Whatever I say, you must verify. It must be completed inside your being, in the pure intelligence you are, not the person. Keep discerning. Keep discerning what is and what appears. You are inside this body, The whole world is inside you when we look from and as awareness itself. Is it unnatural? Leave God to take care of the world. And observe, like this you will know God. If you have a favourite day, a favourite moment, 'Happy New Year', And yet, this we can enjoy. [sound of the bell] Om. There is no need to get up when I leave. If you'd like to sit, some of you, this is perfectly fine. To those of you watching from full blessing and greetings on this day. Om. Thank you. Copyright (c) 2019 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd's express consent.