Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe Also, please like and leave a comment, and of videos. Thanks for your help. In this video we'll take a look at Wireshark. I have shown you Wireshark a couple times bit more time on it. Although there is a lot you can learn about using it. Network engineers use it as a tool in their study tool. Using Packet Tracer's 'simulation' mode not at the same level as Wireshark. Packet Tracer is a network simulator, but network traffic. Up here you can see the packets as they are you are capturing traffic from, and if you down here. Note that this kind of software is called Packet is just a general term we use, it doesn't As you can see here, the entire frame is indeed To download Wireshark, go to wireshark.org. It's totally free, so you really should At the end of this demonstration I'll give so you'll need to download it if you want Usually in my lab videos I give a shoutout simulator with a ton of guided practice labs. Since I'm not doing a regular configuration Boson's CCNA courseware, which they released Basically, this is Boson's complete course What do you get in the courseware? You get the curriculum, which is the main You get a PDF lab guide, and on top of that These are not the labs included in NetSim labs made for the courseware. Here's the table of contents for the curriculum, CCNA. I always recommend using multiple resources courseware is a great option. I didn't use their courseware for the previous courseware to study for my exams and it was If you want to get Boson's courseware, follow You can download a sample from their website. Okay, back to Wireshark. First up I'm just going to show you a brief being sent and received by the network interface When the capture starts you'll see there's the interface. Then I open a YouTube page and start watching Okay, let's just watch the video, it's through an actual analysis of some of the Okay, so that was a lot of traffic that went Let's analyze some of it. Notice that in Wireshark you are able to filter There are many ways you can do so. This video isn't about how to master Wireshark, Just notice that I filtered by the TCP port If you do want to learn more about Wireshark, and also a free Wireshark and ethical hacking you're curious. Okay, notice the first message here, under Layer 4 protocol being used. Under 'info' you can see the source and From 62652 to 443 in the first message, and reply. What is 62652? It's the random source port my PC selected How about 443? That's HTTPS, Hypertext Transfer Protocol Look here, do you recognize this series of SYN, SYN-ACK, followed by ACK. That's the TCP 3-way handshake. So, in these first three messages my PC and You can also see the sequence number, acknowledgment number, and window length. Remember that I said the initial sequence You might be thinking it's a big coincidence number. In Wireshark it is displayed as 0 here to but that's not the actual sequence number. When we look further at the details of the So, sequence number 0 is acknowledged with told you about. Then my PC sends sequence number 1. Once again, these aren't the real sequence this to make it easier to look at and analyze Then there is the actual exchange of data Notice that most of these display SSL in the SSL is what gives the security to HTTPS, Hypertext TCP is still being used, but Wireshark displays Finally, you can see the exchange of FINs end. You probably noticed that the flags are a lecture, there is an extra ACK in the first There are some nuances to the connection termination at the CCNA level. I recommend just remembering the basic FIN, Now let's briefly look inside one of those This is the very first SYN message at the First up, notice that the segment is of course We're just looking deeper than we did before, Okay, I want to point out the sequence number Notice that '0' is the relative sequence Wireshark does this to make it easier to analyze Below you can see the real sequence number. As you can probably imagine, it is much harder numbers like 1 billion 224 million 315 thousand Okay, there are just a couple other things Because this is a SYN message, under the 'flags' it's 1. All of the other flags are not set, they are Finally, you can see the TCP window size down Okay, before wrapping up this brief demonstration First up, notice that this is a DNS, Domain This is from my PC to a DNS server. So, what will the destination port be? As you can see here, my PC selected a random used 53 as the destination port, because that's Within the segment you can indeed see that This is a DNS query message, you'll learn That's all I wanted to point out about UDP, TCP. Finally, here's a little bit of homework You don't have to do this, of course, but First, download Wireshark from wireshark.org. Then use it to capture network traffic sent Visit some websites while Wireshark is running. Then stop the Wireshark capture. Check out the packet captures, and find a establishment. Then find a TCP four-way handshake, a TCP Again, if you really want to learn how to Bombal's free videos on YouTube or getting I'm no Wireshark expert myself, David Bombal am. Okay, that's all for the video, I hope it captures and see some of the things we studied Before finishing today's video I want to To join, please click the 'Join' button Thank you to Benjamin, Deepak, Tshepiso, Justin, Erlison, Apogee, Wasseem, Marko, Florian, Value, John, Funnydart, Scott, Hassan, Gerrard, Mark, Yousif, Sidi, Boson Software, Charlesetta, Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly, One of you is still displaying as Channel me know and I'll see if YouTube can fix This is the list of JCNP-level members at 29th 2020, if you signed up recently and your be in future videos. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel, like the with anyone else studying for the CCNA. If you want to leave a tip, check the links I'm also a Brave verified publisher and accept Brave browser. That's all for now.