(suspenseful music) - [Timothy] This is Jeongjo the Great, a next generation warship (speaker speaking in foreign language) (cannon popping) - It's one of the most and it cost only $600 million to build. A similar ship would cost to construct in the US. The cost of building a while production times after decades of with only a handful of shipyards. Meanwhile, its strategic rival, China, has turned out hundreds of new ships, now commanding the world's Now, the US is looking to Asia's shipyards to help close that gap as the two superpowers move (suspenseful music) In the 1970s, the US shipbuilding industry had 13 public shipyards building about 5% of the world's tonnage. Today, only four yards The Navy has prevented from buying or constructing new ships to federal law. And that has allowed China to set a course to one day end US naval dominance. Beijing is now the top global Giant Chinese firms that for the world are often the for China's navy. Less than a decade ago, the US Navy held more battle Since then, China's fleet has and is projected to have 435 outsizing the US by over a third. Officials are now in a race against time to stop that from happening. While the Navy can't it can import expertise. And if there is one place that can rival China's it's South Korea. The country is a leader in in high-end military vessels Much of that work takes place here at the largest shipyard in the world, operated by Hyundai Heavy Industries. Each year, dozens of are built here. And the US Navy sees this as how to catch up with China. Jeongjo the Great is the first of several new destroyers The US is prohibited from but naval officials want to replicate how Hyundai makes them at (suspenseful music) The ship measures more than 550 feet and can carry up to 300 crew. It's fitted with a weapon system that has a detection and can track over 1,000 targets at once. The ship has a vertical of firing missiles at targets Expanded sonar capabilities to detect submarines than older destroyers. - We have a hexagon radar up there. That radar is very powerful. So once North Korea launched a missile, that radar can detect - America has a fleet But what makes this one different - We can build a ship in We have a very healthy and reliable marine industry around us. We can control the cost, and we are adapting the and technology from our mainstream yard. - [Timothy] Hyundai's military ships are built in the same yard as the company's commercial vessels, where about 40 to 50 It means the company can build a destroyer in just 18 months, significantly faster than the 28 months it - We are sharing all the from the commercial shipbuilding. We share all the new technology for the improving the so that also makes us very efficient. - [Timothy] That efficiency are hoping to replicate. Secretary of the US Navy, Carlos Del Toro, traveled to Asia as part to help revive American shipyards. - We shut down many thinking that we would not need them. We became less competitive. Because of that, our building of our naval have become far more expensive, because there are far fewer shipyards that actually build our navy ships. - [Timothy] Once those vessels are built, analysts say that in a prolonged conflict, maintaining the fleet near (alarm buzzing) (missile exploding) Hyundai Heavy Industries to allow US naval hulls to This will allow US to stay in Asia instead of back to American shipyards. - You are looking at the Chinese having greater That's also a geographical of where they should maintain, You don't want to have a battle out there in the Philippine Sea, and then you have retire or even all the way to stateside. Then, you will leave a gap or too few ships to make any - [Timothy] Hyundai Heavy Industries will soon help start training in the US. But these measures may not meet the need to revive the US Navy, and South Korea's prowess - Mainly, the engineering, procurement, construction, so all has to be aligned So we cannot build a ship all has to harmonize together. - [Timothy] America's its shipbuilding capacity as tensions rise over Taiwan. Beijing claims the self-ruled island as part of its territory, and is threatening to take America's naval superiority is a deterrent to a Chinese invasion as - Assuming that there's but assuming there is The ongoing availability to concentrate enough while having to take it will be a huge stretch. It doesn't mean the US will but then the question is, at what cost? - [Timothy] While the US Navy to its Chinese rival, naval strategists argue that The bigger the better. The clock is ticking for the US to increase its number of warships, but the laws designed to have backed the Navy into a corner. The US will need to look beyond its shores if it is to avoid falling in a new era of great power competition. (suspenseful music)