Hello dear friends, you are on the channel with a double portion of useful tips! Today we will check the method of sharpening knives on the Japanese Water Stone, and for comparison we will take the new Japanese knife Samura Harakiri! By the way, I will leave links to it in the description! The knife is completely new, look. We'll open it together with you, we ordered it on Yandex Market, I'll leave the links in the description! All this is not advertising, you will just know where I ordered what. Because they constantly ask where they bought it and how. From now on I will leave links under each video. We open the package and take out the Samura Harakiri knife. Thick good steel, textolite handle and look how sharp it is from the factory. It cuts just perfectly! That is, with such a knife you can, I don't know, operate and perform some kind of plastic surgery, that's how you want it, and it cuts anywhere, you can, like that! It's also quite easy for them to make such an arc. In the comments they wrote that it is basically impossible to sharpen a knife to such a sharpness at home; you need to sharpen it on some kind of abrasive wheels at the factory, and so on. Especially sharpeners write that they need diamond discs, some kind of machines, and so on. Let's unpack the parcel! Here is such a box, we ordered everything on Yandex Market, and so it all arrives, in this form. Let's open it and see what we have here. This is such a non-slip bamboo platform. Look next we have such a stone for correcting the main stone. That is, now I will show you what this means. We get our stone here, we have a six-thousander here, here we have a thousand-meter, that is, this is such an excellent stone. Let's open its packaging. It's a good pebble, we put everything into an elastic band so that nothing jumps around. This is how we put it here. We get just such a sharpening system that does not dangle on the table. But with this stone, after sharpening, you can adjust the plane of this stone. That is, if you have a wavy surface or something else, then with this stone you will level everything. Next, what we have with you is this, this is thing number 1 for everyone who does not yet know how to sharpen a knife on a stone. Look what else is included here . This is just such a thing at first glance. Nothing special. There are ceramic inserts here, which in turn will level our stone when sharpening the knife. What we do with you, everything is generally simple here, we take it and put it out like this. Take a look and get the perfect sharpening angle. We don't need to hold the angle of the knife at all. That is, we just take it back and forth and sharpen our knife. Let's check how our knife works. It's an ordinary favorite chef's knife, it cuts in places and in some places it doesn't cut at all, that is, here the sharpening is preserved in the middle. Here's where you can somehow cut something off. We take some water from us in this convenient case. And this is how we wet the stone. These stones do not need to be soaked; these are not the most expensive Japanese stones, which must lie there for a day in water; this stone is simply soaked in water like this. and sharpening begins. See, here he absorbs, absorbs, absorbs, everything is enough! We used approximately 40 ml 50 ml. We take everything, put our corner on the knife and let's go. Here we no longer need to set the angle, here this detail does it for us. Whatever you want, you want it the way it's more convenient for you, that is, move it a little and sharpen the beginning, everything is a little dry, immediately take it, add a little water like this, the easiest way to do it is with a small bottle. Because before I did this with a glass and sprayed it with my hand. Just like this bottle Get yourself one And in general you don't know any troubles. You can sharpen one side and then the other, and you can also turn the stone over. First, on one side we sharpened it more strongly, now on the other, so that the stone is used evenly, everything is set out and we continue to sharpen. Just like that. We're still going around the corner, we're not worrying about the corner, we don't need to hold it anymore, we don't need to hold it for us, this little thing will do it for us, you and I are just sharpening our knife. I like it when my fingers barely touch the stone and the knife. This way you can sharpen more sensually, so to speak. knives and sharpen them in this way at thousandths until we have sharpened the correct angle. In the meantime, I'm sharpening. You can follow the link in the description and see How much this sharpening system costs you or if you don't want to bother, you can just buy this Samura knife, also from the link in the description. This is not an advertisement. you can buy whatever you want. when sharpening, if you don't understand where you are sharpening something, take a regular marker like this. Look, and this is how we paint over this cutting edge. Now it will be immediately clear where our stone is not sharpening. It works like Blue in factories! Guys should know who does the turning business. Blue is Blue - this is Blue; they know what I'm talking about; we set everything up and see where it fits. And what do we see? You and I see that the very edge of the knife has not yet been sharpened. Yes, we are still sharpening the corner. We have already been grinding for about 5 minutes and there is still no effect as such. You and I haven't even reached the edge yet. Do you see? I think everyone can see it perfectly! Thus, you can check yourself whether you have already sharpened the knife. Either you have already sharpened it, or you still have a very long time to sharpen it. As in our case. It took seven sweats, but on the thousand-mile it is very difficult to contradict a predetermined angle. That is, I sharpen the angle all the time without any devices, it develops on its own, it is different, it is different from this device, and it turns out that I had to completely resharpen the knife [music] to a new angle. On the edge, both on this side and on this one, that is, here we still have ink, roughly speaking, left on top. But, in general, the new edge that the thousandth stone gives us is this kind of cut, that is, on the thousandth stone you can achieve this kind of cut! What does the Samura knife give us out of the box? Moreover, you and I can shave with it, you see - I've shaved everything. That's how sharp the Samura knife is! All this can be obtained thanks to the next sharpening stage. We take it, set our sharpening system to 6000 stone and just like that, roughly speaking, we polish our knife! No need to press too hard! There's already a lot of polishing going on here, roughly speaking. Look what we have achieved! You can see it, right? You can see what we achieved in 16 minutes, here Samura is our knife, that is, we achieved the razor effect. my hand turned red, and I even cut myself a little, like after a razor. that we will then test what kind of cut he has. That is, how he cut before and how he cuts now. Look, the absolutely clear cut is the same as Samur's, but a little, a little harder. Yes, that is, the cut is absolutely perfect! look at what I want to say in conclusion , you definitely don't need this sharpness of a knife like Samura in the kitchen! Your fingers will fly off in different directions, especially if you don't know how to cut like a chef. Let's say this is how it is... then you definitely don't need such sharpness, but the sharpness of this knife is extremely maximum! he shaves the hair on his arm! Are your knives shaved in the kitchen or not? Here's an interesting review test we did today with our hands in an ordinary kitchen on an ordinary stone, an ordinary knife can be sharpened to razor sharpness in just 46 minutes. Here 's an interesting test review we got today: links to the Samura knife on the stone to the Sharpening System in the description and pinned comment, order it, and have as much fun in the kitchen as you can! Bye!