00:00 approximately 35 million hats were the US population at that time period, per man per year. The popular hats at 00:13 the newsboy, the straw boater, and the Panama. during that time period, you would not see a Joe Rogan and Theo von were just talking about everywhere. It didn't matter if you're when you walked out of your house, you had a total US population has more than doubled. But, 00:42 Walking around during this decade, you're lucky what happened in the span of less than half a fedoras? Were hats a fashion trend that just a cultural shift? Well, gentlemen, the answer right here. Do you see it? Well, don't worry, the end of this video as we dive into solving 01:11 understand the decline of hats, we first have to hats to begin with? Now, for thousands of to protect themselves and as a sign of social this became uniform across Europe and the the tricorne hat. Favored by the military, outdoors, the bicorne and the tricorne hat was 01:40 of headwear that protected the wearer's head from to be emphasized because in the modern world go back just a hundred years, the majority of the day like most people did, you were going to be So, protecting the head was important. from a variety of different materials 02:07 occasionally decorative accessories and details the bi and the tricorn hats are out and we see hat is still worn at certain occasions in various design is more of a sign of status than it is rise of the top hat also marked a big shift in 02:35 the industrialization age, we see people migrating that were fortunate or maybe cunning, devious, it to the top, wanting to be able to show off that the top hat became very popular especially in and Paris. And, the bowler, by the way, emerged 03:02 1890s as more and more men started to earn more still the practical need of headwear and saw the peak of hat sales at over 42 million in a that was more than the male adult population. we saw a number of different styles start the Newsboy, and the flat cap. So, by the 03:31 five hats in his wardrobe and no self-respecting head. So, what happened? Now, gents, before I today's sponsor, Lifend and their high-speed which you see right here is the best hairdryer on it dries your hair safely. As you know, when you be able to shape it, you want to be able to use 04:00 hair and that's why I love the Life and Swift control. It's making sure a hundred times a second hair. In addition, this thing is quiet and I whole lot of noise first thing in the morning. this thing is strong. It's going to dry hairdryer. All of that from a brushless motor 04:27 got three different nozzles. And, if you grab a Lifen high-speed hairdryer, absolutely free. I love this toothbrush. I use love how it's got a long-lasting battery. It's but it oscillates going back and forth. Basically, even if you got poor brushing technique, which is 04:53 gents, if you're ready to step up your grooming if you want your teeth looking good, both of highly recommend them. And right now, you can description of today's video. So, go check it great one. So, what happened to the hat? Why did based off my research, I've got five reasons 05:21 reason was a shift in demographics, specifically from 1870 to 1970, the amount of men spending of percentages. In 1870, a man would spend 10 on average less than an hour. The big shift to the cities having factory jobs, having service 05:49 they realized and they stopped buying the headwear the elements. Now, understand this was a gradual been wearing a hat for the first 20 to 30 years that habit, you just had less opportunities to to pay attention to especially the baby booters. 06:16 1950s. All of these new young men entering the there was no habit attachment to wearing And that takes us right into the youth culture, say in the 1960s, we saw a cultural revolution. the Beatles, from the mods to the hippies to the not want to associate themselves with their 06:46 yourself from your father was to stop looking like the conservative dress code. They wanted to dress them, but not even realizing it, they were falling of that, let's talk about cultural icons. So, but JFK pretty much did not wear a hat in 07:15 but the guy still he just wore his jacket up captured on television seen by tons of young coffin of headwear. And, again, JFK wasn't the popular especially with the younger crowds. We silver screen heroes looking stylish, looking for this next point, let's go back to that picture 07:44 the cultural shifts, one of the habits that is of the hat. Do you see it now? Gentlemen, it's when cars were first manufactured, they didn't to wear your top hat right there in the car. 1930s, all of a sudden we started to didn't make a lot of sense for us to make 08:11 lower the roofs, an encouragement to a lot of guys that are wearing flat 08:17 for most guys, especially if you're a little to have to take off that Homburg, that Trilby, as Americans and the world started to spend a lot function of the hat protecting from the elements 1950s, every respectable American family wanted became their primary mode of transportation, they 08:45 the rise of the automobile is that became a bigger hats by and of themselves were never a true clothing and the way you presented yourself. towards a more casual society, we've seen that clothing has actually dropped off. Although 09:10 you guys to dress in a manner that you're sending wearing the appropriate clothing. Now, this point but it really was the death toll of the you lose like 10 to 25% of the heat from I know when I'm walking outside if I don't And that was the thing, wearing a hat 09:37 you're traveling maybe in a train that's unheated with the advent of better heating systems not but also in private automobiles, the amount exposed to extreme cold fell dramatically wearing headwear day to day disappeared. you're probably thinking, okay, that makes a lot 10:06 that was an amazing accessory. Guys, I got Seriously, we actually had capes in the United but why day to day did men stop wearing video right here. Seriously, it's a fun