A ruthless murder was committed! Someone killed say that an Everest-sized asteroid hit a mass extinction. A simple, fascinating In the last few years, new evidence has at a second suspect. A very slow and hitting earth on the opposite side of the planet. at the new evidence and tell a different story The Last Days of a Kingdom 66 million years ago, Earth was barely Cretaceous, one of the hottest periods Lush jungles and woodlands covered much were home to forests of prehistoric that were robust enough to survive the many Oversized animals were everywhere. marine lizards and long necked monsters up to basically everything larger than one meter animals ever to walk Earth, dominating And then they were murdered. All in a split-second of geological time. Why? Yes, it is true that at around that time a big killed the dinosaurs? Or did it arrive just in some recent science, just before the asteroid the dinosaurs, decided to destroy the world. The Beast Slowly Awakens The ancient continents almost resembled was still a continent-sized tropical island on its way to smash into Asia. But this paradise a volcanic region a thousand kilometers wide and The apocalypse began quietly and silently. the Deccan Traps began to exhale about dioxide each year. Which in the grand so for a long time no one noticed. The stop. For half a million years, they started About 300,000 years before the asteroid, the nothing like a normal eruption - it was volcanos stretching beyond the horizon. They were massive amounts of poison and lava, interrupted The lush paradise of India was the first victim the coastal regions. Clouds of ash darkened the eradicating many local ecosystems and Still, at this point it all looked like have hit our planet over its billions of there might still be dinosaurs today. But The Beast Turns Furious The Deccan Traps would just not stop thousands of years of never ending volcanic First the planet experienced a wave of heating, with oceans getting at least 2oC hotter but just about the timeframe that But then nature would pull a cruel Traps heated the planet up, while others so after the initial warming, massively stressing the ecosystems that barely At the same time, the sulfur in the while the CO2 was acidifying the oceans and still is today, the basis of the food web a massive extinction is all but guaranteed. But now the grand finale was about to the true apocalypse came. Like a cosmic the Deccan Traps roared and screamed and tons of magma and even more deadly gasses thousand years. Rolling over ecosystems, For a time as long as all of human civilization, Earthquakes and tsunamis smashed and shook the roaring hot interior of our planet that it of kilometers wide, with winds reaching deadliest hurricane ever recorded by humanity. they could reach tens of kilometers into the with devastating consequences for all radiation. And of course, where the hyper storms And if all this wasn't enough, out of the venom. Giant clouds loaded with mercury and delivering the final blow to the remnants food chains crumbled and the whole world dinosaurs to ever walk the Earth may have died rain. A cruel end for the members of a noble Then, it just ended. The frenetic eruptions slowed fade away. But the world was changed forever. and corpses in its wake. Even the planet's the end of a whole geological era. A murder that And then it happened. Like a cosmic joke, on the other side of the And an instant later, an asteroid 10 km across atomic bombs. If you want to see what this was earth was like a murder victim barely holding After the massacre, on the the Deccan Traps went on expelling tens for another 800,000 years, making sure the When they eventually finished 75% of all species on Earth had perished. Most the only dinos that are still with us today. reminder of how majestic and wonderful So - Who Was the Murderer? Were the dinosaurs doomed by the without the asteroid? Was it teamwork? Well, debating this question for years, but The timeline of events that we've shown here is of the evolution of the Deccan Traps. There are right now scientists are still fiercely arguing So like much of true crime, we can't end this Time has the nasty habit of erasing evidence, something else hidden in the dust, something about the past, we found that at least 4 of same time as the Earth was furiously The monster that might have killed the The worst massacre ever, the Permian was caused by the Siberian Traps - a hellish species on earth, almost bringing life to thought that this was an outlier, but new Other big mass extinctions happened when longer and more violently it rampaged, the more maybe the dinosaurs were not massacred but by a serial killer hiding beneath our feet. Do you need to worry about all of this? Definitely not. While the monster is real, it's If it were about to awake again, scientists monitoring early - maybe even millions of years in advance. Enough about mysteries of the past We are testing out this project crate from our kids on topics like science, mechanics, biology dinosaurs too. Each one is like a little doorstep - either individually or as with all of the supplies you need along with So what do we have here? A Well go ahead, assemble it! Good job! This is a project that and gives you lots of background info We wanted to work with KiwiCo because they spend testing their products, just like we do projects available for kids of all ages - If you're ready to explore and learn in the infobox or use the code KURZGESAGT