[music] This week's video is a biggie. It is the best drugstore makeup of all time. That means it's got to be high performing, it's items that you might purchase at Ulta, or And it's got to stand the test of time. It's got to last all day and it's got to wear well. For me, there are a couple And as I've gotten older, my needs with Number 1, I'm looking for pore minimizing. I have found over the years, the pores have gotten a little bit bigger. And I notice that sometimes throughout The second thing that I'm So, this makeup that I'm going to feature I mean, this is makeup that you could wear at an I'm not doing the sort of natural BB look with I'm strictly going for mattes, not drying, So, I really want to let you know that everything and that includes the brushes. So, first of all, I don't know if you've heard Take a look at that, it And this one also has brushes for And then for the eyes, they have So, every area of the eye, the eyebrow, lid and with the same product line. It's a super-popular brand, incredibly affordable. I will list all products, all prices, portion of the video. So, if anything piques your interest, out for yourself. So, let's launch in. I have to do a little unpackaging here. Okay, so I'm going to pop out the beauty A brush for powder, face powder. And then I've got options with blush, And I love the colors, I just, I love The next thing I need to open A voila. Really well thought out kit. So, now that we have everything, And the first one is a primer. Again, my focus is on minimizing pores. So, this is my choice for that, Covergirl Pore Minimizing Primer. I'm just having pore issues, &quot;I'm pore.&quot; Anyway, you know, this is really It doesn't have that super-strong silicone feel It glides on nicely, and most of the pore problem. A little extra right here on the chin. Okay, all-time favorite drugstore 2-in-1 Foundation and Concealer. I am in-between colors. This is warm beige, and this is sand sable. So again, because I self-tan, as you can see, on my face. So, I'm going to have to do a little pump of this is superior, staying power, amazing. You know, it's super-hard to find that ideal So, if you have to, and you know you get two and you just blend away. And so, that's what I'm doing. The coverage is fantastic. But what I really, really like about this And I know that is something that is super-important that's going to feel cakey and settle into the lines. I am a little bit closer to the sand sable. So, if your skin tone is like me, and if you self-tan, you may want to So next up is a eyelid primer. And this one is by e.l.f. And it's a primer that comes It has a slightly peachy pink tone to But it's a great base for your eye shadow. And you can use fingers by the way, I really love this primer because It's not too sheer, but it's not as opaque It really helps to bring those eye shadow For eyebrows, you have seen this product it's the NYX Lift &amp; Snatch Brow Tint pen. The shade that I'm using is ash brown, I normally wear. But that espresso I really like more for evening a bit and I need a bolder brow. For me, stepping it down to the ash And again, you just go in, and it's like It's a fine, little felt-tip pen, precision And once you've done that, I start And I just follow the growth pattern of the hair, As you can see, these hairs come at an angle, So, I'm just sort of painting it in like that. And it'll just look like a microbladed brow as I have purchased so many It truly is a beauty all-star and Okay, now for the super-cool, exciting And this is a brand that I absolutely love lot of reasons. Number 1, the products are amazing. Number 2, they're cruelty-free, Take a look at this beautiful I tried to find one again, all matte Some are a little cool and some are warm. So, depending on your skin tone, I think And so, looking at what I'm wearing especially for the lid will make the most sense. And then outer corner, the darker color. So, I'm going to use this largest And I'm going to go in and I'm going to It's a very pretty, soft shade, kind of a mauvey which is why I really, really like it. Beautiful color. I mean, you can almost wear this by itself with a need any depth. But I do need depth, and a lot of us do. So, I'm going to now start See this rust color right here? So, these two, this rust, I'm going then really deepen the outer So, here comes that more rusty And now, like I mentioned, the darker This palette to me is a fantastic You can go lighter, you can go darker. But these are just classic colors. And just so, so flattering. This super, super-light pink, second to right, so that's what I'm going to go for. And it's perfect. It's almost like a super-light Same thing for inner corner. Okay, what I'm going to do now And I absolutely adore for that, its The way that it goes on, there's no It's 24 hours, literally it will not transfer. So, this, to me, is a great liner for doing Not top down but coming from the underside. You can do a smoky eye with this. I have one in black, I also have one in brown, you like to use. But in this case, I'm just going to top line. Just going to hold up my lid. Come from underneath. Then just give a little bit Now for those of you who like a And I'll do it, I'll do a little But take a look at this one, this is fine black-tip pen, great for doing or even just hugging along your You know, not a lot of us want that dramatic So, this makes that lash line look a don't make that line too thick, and And that's what will give you that really nice border that you've done. And I'm just doing just the outer, let's say third. Just to sort of strengthen that lash line So clearly, I don't need to put on mascara, my absolute favorite drugstore they've been top rated forever and a day. It's L'Oreal Lash Paradise Mascara, it's been are out there. I could do a smudge in the That's so against what I normally do. But all right, let's do this, let's take. Let's just get a little crazy, shall we? I'm going to take kind of a Go in the lash line. I mean, if I'm going to talk Normally, I don't wear a bottom lash mascara. But the trick is just to wiggle and just hug it so you don't get the spiders. That's enough. Sadly, I'm not demonstrating all this mascara voluminous lashes, Lash Paradise And I'm going to move on now to concealer. Are you wondering what's It's another product by e.l.f., it is And I'm going for medium neutral. It does come in a matte finish. I'm a little hesitant in doing a super-matte you don't want something too So, you can do something that's a little Leave it alone. Or if you feel it's a little too shiny, you can But I just like personally having that kind of say and So anyway, there you go. Comes with a wand. This is such an amazing concealer. Can you see that coverage? It's killer. I take the extra, just pull it down. And go around your mouth. Hit your chin a little bit. And you can almost use it as a highlighter. I mean, let me just tell you, to me Okay, it is that good, drugstore, e.l.f. And I don't find it to be too oily. I'm still going to set it with a powder. But if I didn't want to, I could go without. Okay, so speaking of powder, this Oop. [vocalization] There are two powders that we're going to use. So, the first one is by Maybelline New York, My shade that I'm using is Light Medium 20. This is a finely milled powder, it has Translucent Loose, the one that I wear, And I'm going to use this with a Great powder, immediately cuts the shine. But it's not drying whatsoever. The Maybelline Fit Me, this This is a great powder to take with you in It comes with a little sponge So, I'm going to use this because I like I'm just going to tap a brush into it and just I use translucent because I All right, so we're moving on And again, another product by e.l.f. This is e.l.f. Contour Palette. What I really, really like about it is the I've got a nice bronzer, little super-light highlight, so, it gives me So, for my contour, out of that brush kit, this is a And don't be afraid to mix. If this is too dark and this is too light, you can But it's a very, very nice contour color. Can run it down the side of the nose. The tip for a little sun. Don't forget your hairline. This is where I warm up my skin a Hit your jawline for a nicely defined jaw. If you carry weight up in here, So, all kinds of neat tricks with contouring. For the highlight, let's go with I just want a little pop right here on the cheek. Little bit on the tip of the nose, above the lip, the Okay, blush color. Oh my gosh, I love Milani for blush. And they're so pretty. It's called Romantic Rose. It's a very up-close, it looked but it's really not as light as that. So, hit the cheek with that. Really pretty. Milani colors are great. Another one to look into, and you know, this they make a fantastic blush line So, it's really almost a tossup but I just, I love the size of this thing, Okay, so we are moving on to lips now. And again, a pencil that I featured I love it because it is the perfect nude. In fact, it's called Nude Truffle. It's a pencil that I wear with almost But it's a great border color that I like to smudge a pencil there, but it gives sort So again, I don't like a harsh line, Okay, the lipstick. This lipstick has staying power. This lipstick ain't coming off This is Maybelline Super Stay in Matte Ink. This stuff will last an entire day. This lipstick color is Number 60, Poet. It will not transfer. It comes with a wand. And when you put it on, keep your lips I wait about a minute. Okay, the lipstick has now dried, I mean, barely any transference at all And this color won't budge. Not everybody feels comfortable with a matte and not everybody can handle that. I love the staying power of a great matte. I love the fact that I can eat and I But if you do feel like you need a little bit And it's super-pretty, and it's one of any color, and it's by Milani, gold tone, sparkly. But it's not as pigmented as you might think. Let me show you something, See it right there, it has a tiny, tiny bit It's really providing a little bit more So, if you felt the need, that's something especially in areas where But again, if you can hold out My runner-up by the way in matte lipstick, So, if you can't handle that super-matte finish, This is by Milani, it's bold matte. The color is called I Am Awesome. It's very, very similar to Poet So, I want to present this as an option. If you can't do Super Matte, Here is I Am Awesome, it's And then Poet will be up top. Here's the finished product of the The wear, impeccable. If you were to compare this makeup look to you probably would look at the two And you know what? In this particular case, I can't tell the difference. Let me throw in a couple Almay is making a biodegradable long-wear So, this is great to help remove I don't want to get rid of my face, And it got everything off perfectly. Another thing that I would like to share Neutrogena Oil-Free Eye Makeup Remover for no oily residue. But when you have eyelash extensions, you have does not have oil in it. So, this helps to get rid of the makeup. And my all-time favorite face wash now, I'm not halfway done with This product is incredible, talk about and making your skin feel super-silky smooth It's a gentle foaming moisturizing wash, up to 24-hour hydration. Amazing. So, between all of these One last thing because we're not Did you think I'd leave off a setting spray? Heck to the no. This one is by e.l.f. This is Stay All Night Micro-Fine And it's a very fine mist, so cover your hair. And that's it. And we are good to go. All-time favorite, drugstore makeup. Man, oh man, they are upin' their game. The quality is incredible. The price point, as you And I want to show you a full face, and I You can cover, you can You can go as full coverage as you There is something for everyone. Okay, I knew you were going to ask, &quot;All right, Well, this is after eight hours, Okay, now back to earlier. I figured this would have the most bang for the all of that. But we could always do a Round 2, cream-based type of a finish, and go that So, drop me a note down If that's something that you'd like to see, If you are not following me on social media We have so much fun during the week. It's the best way for me to hear from you. I'm present always. And so oftentimes, that's I answer your questions and you give me And I thank you in advance for being there. And of course, a huge thank If you haven't subscribed yet, enable all the notifications, and that way, a video, and that's Thursday So, I would really, really love to have you as a part of women who lift and support one another. And, oh my gosh, you know, counting down It's almost there. It's, aw, it's amazing. Anyway, you'll be seeing a lot more about that on special things that we get So please, go follow me, and I look Thanks for being here. Be bold and be blessed as always. Bye. [music]