K: Do you think it's worthwhile Because apparently we never come to the very end of it. each one saying So could we, could we talk over together and choose a subject and go to the very end of it, Could we do that? Then, please, Questioner: Continue what about responsibility. K: Could we discuss what we were responsibility? And also another suggests Q: I have a question I would like to and I gave to (inaudible). So that you would hear it, Maybe he would read it to you. Q: He says, you have been talking and also there are these schools, this one and in all of this time, out of has there come about of even one single human being? K: You have had schools here and five or six schools in India, and you have been talking and has there been one single human Do you want to discuss that? Q: No. Q: Sir, could we relate to that of what is impeding We are coming here and I think in wanting to transform. K: Would we discuss seriously Q: What is impeding? K: What impedes transformation? What impedes human minds bringing about Do you want to discuss that? Q: May I make a suggestion, I appreciate the pioneering I am also a pioneer and reflect the fact that UFOs and - a quantum leap I would like to put those thoughts for discussion. Q: She says, I'm interested in such things as Could we bring that K: You could. So do you want to discuss, and go step by step to the very end of it, if you want to choose that subject: why is it, or is it possible to bring about and what are the things Q: Yes. Q: In relation to that, observation without the observer, K: That's a very good question, the art of seeing Perhaps we can include in discussing what about... if it's possible and what is preventing us. Shall we discuss this step by step Not stop in the middle of it Could we do that? K: Right. At last! Q: Sir, could we also include talking about capacity K: Capacity and...? Q: Self-acceptance. K: Self-acceptance - Perhaps all these questions Q: Yes. K: First of all, What do we mean by bringing about in our consciousness? You understand? What does it signify, what is the meaning They are all the same words What do we mean by that? May I proceed a little bit? Is it change if you know You understand my question? If one knows is that change? No, go slowly, sir, If one has an idea, to which you conform, or from this to that, Or is it a continuation You have understood my question? One may project what one should be. The projection of that from one's own belief, and you project that. And when you want to become that, perhaps slightly modified. So, when we have an object projected by our own experience, from our own belief such movement Let's talk that over If one says, 'I must change myself that goodness is a concept, or a series of conclusions or to which you think you are We are asking, It is part - is it not, sir? - If one desires a new experience - I'm taking that as an example - and strives after that experience, and when you do experience that you must be able to recognise it, which I am feeling, Which means that you have and therefore recognition means that which you have I wonder if you see that. Are we meeting each other there? Q: It's very easy - and then it's easy to deceive and go on wasting a lot of time. Therefore, do we see this fact That to change from this to that, that being a projection of this, then it is not change at all. It is like moving going further and further and further and therefore it is not change, but it is a change, a mutation and you go diametrically opposite: south, or east or west. You have moved from one direction, to totally another direction, That is a change. But if you keep on going of course there is a modification, there is a change of scenery, but it's in the same direction. Is that clear, sirs? Let's talk it over. Q: We know what the mind It hears that and says, 'OK, K: Of course, therefore find out. and you realise going in the same So you say change then means going But if you keep on going south Just see. So one has discovered which is, to have no direction. Just first... First step is that one desires, That is a fairly intelligent demand, Then one asks, Generally implied, from the known, move in the direction I am using different words. I don't know about the unknown But it is the same direction. So, to discover change implies not having any movement Which doesn't mean I wonder if you get this. Q: You don't necessarily stay but it seems like K: All right. If you stop and if you stop, why do you stop? To go in another direction? Find out, sir. One stops going east, and if you stop going what takes place, actually? Q: You cast about K: Yes. That's right, sir. whether it is south-southeast - always moving in a direction. And we are saying such movement See how very complex this is, and requires a little subtlety. The mind has always moved in with all the degrees, Right? So it is now conditioned - horizontal, linear, vertical, and the various degrees between That is what we are used to, and that is what we call change, and that is what we call progress. I wonder if you see this. Q: Does the mind have to move to K: We will come to that, sir, First, just see the significance the inwardness of it. Q: Is this not our habitual response K: I know. Of course, This is our life, One is pushed in this direction by various influences, and if that isn't suitable, And this constant movement is called progress, change, - acquiring knowledge, moving. So we are asking We're discussing change deep, fundamental mutation, transformation, That's what we're talking about. We must bear that in mind, Q: Is that what is called 'satori'? K: Now, just a minute, sir. The moment you use the word 'satori' - the Japanese Zen you are comparing, aren't you? When you say, 'Is that what you...?' you are comparing. The moment you are comparing, You are caught You're not seeing - if you'II that you are not actually observing You may call it 'satori,' the Hindus may call it 'samadhi' but that has no meaning. What has meaning is to see in a certain direction 300 degrees, or 150... Q: I have trouble with the idea not taking a direction K: That's just it. Wait, sir - find out, find out. You know, sir, this is a very - I mustn't go into this if this is clear, is not change, is not mutation - the very word Is this clear? Sir, don't go... Q: It doesn't seem clear because then don't we become Q: If we have no direction K: No. Isn't apathy No, see that, sir. if you have no direction isn't there apathy, You see? Which means one is really apathetic when you are moving It is routine, mechanical. One has learnt a lesson One is a Freudian - carry on, or Gestalt, or some other and you follow that line But to say, 'Look, let's find out if there is any possibility of movement Ah, this is too much. This is too much. Q: Would enlightenment with what you're talking about, that if we were aware that we there is no direction... That's what the Hindus have been 'We are inwardly Brahman, and through various lives we're going to peel off till we achieve that ultimate thing. That is a supposition, And also it is directive. This is really rather difficult. You have chosen rather a very, Q: What is the nature of direction? K: Physical direction or Santa Barbara or Los Angeles - you take a road and go, There is a direction. And if you are educated, that is a direction - professor, scientist, So, culturally we are conditioned in a particular, or obscure, You become a first class engineer and for the rest of the life You are a brilliant physicist, - Nobel prize and all the rest of it And the religious groups This is a very, very difficult If you want to go into it, you have to apply your mind to this, Q: Doesn't this mean of even the subtlest form K: Of course, sir. So, we are asking, uprooting that which has been. Not modifying that which has been. Q: Are you implying K: That's right. Moment you are aware you have not changed. That's the beauty of it, Haven't you noticed, the moment - have you not noticed this? - something has escaped from you. Q: What we call change, dissipates the capacity K: Yes, sir. from the child to adolescence - the whole process. You have got something terribly There is biological process the cultivation of the mind, and perhaps that idea that man grows from childhood that may be our idea of change, too. Being a child, growing into... So, psychologically, And this biological growth we also have psychologically So we are saying non-movement as time and measure. Q: We've gone carefully could we talk a bit about time? K: Yes. I'm coming to that, sir. We are always measuring, I have been, I shall be. I don't know if you have The whole Western philosophy and both technologically if you have no measurement or an aeroplane. You must have the rule, The whole of the Western Because thought is measurement. Right? Anything that moves from here Is this too difficult? K: Sir, this is the real meaning This is too difficult. So, the Eastern world 'Measurement is illusion. To discover the immeasurable, I don't know if you've gone But they employed thought you must control, you must meditate, all pattern laid down measurement is thought. You are following all this? Q: It seems to me that K: Of course, physical measurement To build this chair Q: When I think I am religious, I might quit measuring Q: He says, then I stop measuring K: Oh, no, no, no. Religious man may measure No, you are mixing up so much. You're not thinking consecutively. Q: It seems that in its movement from the past K: Look, sir, we started out asking As long as there is the more, the comparison 'I have been, I shall be' So long as there is to move from this to that and which is a continuation there cannot be change. Q: As long as there is the faculty K: No, no, Q: Don't you mean the faculty K: I won't even use 'measurement' Sir, all right, let's... Q: When you use 'faculty,' K: Of course. Look, sir, one wants to change because one sees You may have a great deal - how to go to the moon, or become an excellent plumber, - one realises that is fairly... And also one says to oneself, And what does it mean to change?' That's what we are concerned with. And we have always changed from this to that, In the same direction. That is clear. Whether the direction south-southeast or south-southwest, Now, is that change? We think it is change. But is that basic change? Or that is not change, but to have a mind that has but has movement. I wonder if you get this. Sir, look, we expend our energy sexual, ambitious, competitive, greedy, engineering, success. And we are saying Right? They have modified - they build better aeroplanes, better way but psychologically, inwardly He has been afraid He has been violent He has been envious, brutal So man has not changed, deeply. And one asks, why? Man being you and I Is it because he has movement must be directional, growth must be directional. It is biologically: It will take time. So, why has not man, human being, I am asking you, why? Q: Is not the block that the mind It thinks it has to move. I'm not asking you, personally, Q: Because we haven't wanted to. K: Oh, you have plenty of energy. When you want something, whether it is sex, money, position, you have immense energy. Q: She said we haven't changed K: If you wanted to, It comes to the same thing, Q: You wouldn't know it K: Sir, if you wanted to change, You would exercise will. You would say, which means you have already... which you have done Q: Isn't part of the difficulty that does not observe K: Partly. Q: The explanation that you give - it seems very obvious, K: I'II show it to you in a minute. We are going to go into it We said, what is it Q: Wanting to change is K: Then you accept what you are. Q: We can't do that either. Q: But what we've said is that we don't change, K: Madame, Why you, human being, You are not meeting the point. Find out, sir, look, look. You may smoke. That has become a habit And you know it is very harmful for your brain, for your heart but you still go on. And you don't say, 'Now, If you drop it because of some other reason, you are not actually dropping it. You may drop the cigarettes but the motive is not it's changing You understand Q: Could you explain that K: A little better. Why do you smoke? It must have tasted, the first time, Right? It tastes perhaps good So first you smoke, it is unpleasant Then doctors come along and say, for your lung, cancerous, for your brain, it dulls...' All the doctors are saying this. And for what reason You are frightened I will have pain, The desire to smoke may be stopped but you have other desire which has its own habits. So you are always moving you are always dropping one thing, and this is the modern world. Go from one guru to another, or one religion one sect is better than the other, But it is always Right? Is this clear? So we are saying projected in a particular direction, is not basic Q: What you are saying someone has to be able K: No, leave the word 'alone,' Q: What you are saying is K: Yes, sir. No, then you have reduced it - gratification. Who is to gratify? You follow? So, sir, let's proceed, So change implies This is - you see? Because thought says, I have had that, I must have that.' And so it is constantly moving And that is what we call And we are saying, Change implies when thought has no object It has projected enlightenment - God, and says, 'It must be achieved,' therefore, I must sacrifice, but it is in the same direction. Q: One can see that this is what and one can see that movement K: Wait, wait! Have you seen it verbally, Q: Apparently, one has not K: That's the point. Why? You say you say, I see verbally, Q: I can also see factually that That's a fact. And I say, what prevents...? Why don't you see it as a whole, What prevents you? Q: It seems to be, there is no awareness of movement. K: Yes, go on, sir, Q: At the moment that the movement there is no awareness Q: There is when the direction is taking place. K: I am not sure. I'm not at all sure I'm not saying you are wrong, One wants to be a congressman and you work for it. You know the direction you are aware of all - you are going in that direction. You also want to be and you read books and you say, I must do certain things - celibacy, poverty, etc., etc., etc. So you conform to that pattern, And you know Q: At the very moment K: You may be unaware of it. K: At the moment I'm taking that word, please, - every Tom, Dick and Harry of a guru so it has lost its vitality, So we will use that word as it is Now, you seek enlightenment, What was the cause of the search? You may be conscious of it, So before you move obviously, a sane man asks, What is the reason? Am I bored with my job? Am I bored with my wife, and I want something... but this may be a totally so I would like that. So consciously or unconsciously there is the cognisance You may not be actually aware of this whole structure but obviously, whether this movement takes place So you cannot, if I may point out, one cannot possibly say Q: Krishnamurti, how you are using but I myself as a self-conscious believe that at any given moment are birthing and dying, and that we are now - and there are no coincidences - where the great mind of time but we have to know K: Jesus. Q: So the transformation is coming to a great leap of where we stop having wars. But I hear how you we can't be too simplistic anymore... Right, sir? Q: You say that we are aware K: Sir, it's like... Q: We are aware, you say, even though we may be K: Yes. Q: You see my difficulty? That means you are being driven without knowing. Wait, see the danger You are being coerced, driven, brainwashed in a particular direction. Q: It's like when we become angry, at the moment of anger it's only after you say, K: That's right, but we are talking Don't you know Q: Yes, afterwards. K: No, wait. See the reaction. You see something in the window What has taken place? The seeing of that dress, that woman, that man, - seeing, the sensation, the contact and say, 'I like... Thought creates an image: You follow? This whole movement is obviously... either it is so quick or you observe as it is arising. That is seeing, contact, sensation, thought creating the image, all that is so quick. Q: No, one can see that. If you're very aware then you can see how it arises. Also you can see the moment the trouble begins. Q: There's nothing further than that? Q: The seeing. the seeing, the contact, sensation, if that's all then it's very simple. But the moment thought takes over then you want. Q: I understand that, that we may be unconsciously aware. Now, when you just described... K: Unconsciously aware in the sense one is not aware of the quickness It takes over so quickly. But if you slow down the process, slow down the whole process, then you see, like cinema, you can turn it very fast then you will see That's all I am pointing out. Q: If I slow it down with a motive, K: Of course, the moment you... Q: In slowing down, become aware of its own movement? Q: How do you slow it down? K: Sir, there is no - because the moment you have a 'how' you have fallen into a direction, you are lost, you have begun But see, sir, look, one wants to see a picture One goes to a museum and you want to see so you look very, Every part of it different depths, and the movement of colour, you watch, slowly you watch it and then you go further back There is no slowing down Therefore, there is no effort You want to see it clearly, Q: How does one observe emotion? K: No, one can't observe the motion. So, we are talking about change. What is the block, blockage, that prevents you from changing? That is the question we're asking, Is it fear? Q: Partly, fear of the unknown. K: Is it laziness? Is it the mind has so conformed that it refuses to... Why do you want to change it?' Because change might Therefore you say, You follow? There may be And the reasons are and so you say, Q: Does that mean that we don't the danger that if we did, there K: Sir, isn't it very dangerous, To the things of the earth, to the things of the sea, isn't it dangerous Q: Are we afraid of dissolving K: Yes, sir! We are so selfish That is the basic reason. If you go into this very carefully, a great many things are involved if you go into it. First of all, to live Right? Can you live without any comparison both physically Find out what it means to compare. Which is, one is this, the example Or compare oneself both economically, This comparison So stop measuring. Can you? Never to compare. See what happens to a mind... Q: The 'never' is here. When you say 'never,' K: Don't compare. Don't compare. See what that means. What is implied... What a mind is that We think through comparison is evolution, growth, We say, on the contrary, a projection 'I am this, I must become that.' The example of nobility, greatness, To have no sense of comparison. Doesn't that bring Q: Does that bring about K: Sir, this country has talked equality democratically, and this country has a great You can go up to a man Or being a very small person, or whatever it is. Equality is much deeper Go on, sir, think it out. Psychologically, you're not equal You think you're somebody else. So there is vanity. So, equality can only exist Goodness is. It has no division. So let's leave that Q: If you say non-comparison To say that is comparison. K: Sir, look, in a school what happens to A? You destroy A, don't you? You are always telling him, you must be like B who is clever, and you are lazy.' So, if you don't compare You have never tried these things. Q: Then the mind doesn't move K: So what takes place? K: No, no. You are too quick. You compare, don't you, sirs? Don't you? You are all so silent. Don't you? Now, if you don't compare, Q: Nothing. Confusion, because you see K: No. Q: We have to look K: Sir, look, if you don't compare, Q: A space. K: Don't compare. because your minds have been And knowledge is comparison too - more knowledge, less knowledge, the professors - history, physics, biology - Knowledge is progressively Q: We compare 'what is' K: Yes... But you compare one material Quite right, you should If you have the money, But we are talking psychologically, not to have this burden Q: That's equality. K: You don't even do it So when you don't compare you have stopped wasting your energy Haven't you? You have that energy. So what takes place? So, you have discovered that when you drop completely comparison Q: The mind becomes quicker. Q: The question is, if we don't take K: Wait, wait, madame, you don't do the thing As we said, go slowly, you will discover things which is important, not what I have discovered But to discover all these things Q: As soon as the idea it sets up a whole new chain between the mind that is comparing and that which has suggested Q: He says, we make an idea which sets up another K: Sir, when you go to a museum - Picasso, Michelangelo, Michelangelo and so on, so on - when you are all the time comparing Because when you are comparing, somebody has told you and you want to accommodate to the man who specialised he says, 'This is the best picture.' So you are conditioned by other people and so on, so on. So you never forgetting who has painted it. In the same way, you never look You understand, sir? Q: Are you saying as long as there K: Not only division of the thing Sir, let's proceed. What is blocking you, from change, radical change? Is it we are always Or, taking the whole structure Not bit by bit by bit, Is that one of our difficulties? Q: It seems that the self and that as one moves dealing with an aspect here, the self will take refuge K: So it will take Q: In fact it will never take place. Q: So how can we move to the centre? Q: In relationship, sir, K: In relationship, sir. What's your relationship intimate or not intimate? Be actual, you know, Is it sexual? Is it comfortable? Is it that you are using another Is it that it gives you a sense of wellbeing, Which is, we are exploiting Is that it? See, you're all too frightened Q: But it's only another fragment. K: Wait, sir, That is only part, isn't it? Observe the part, and go through the part and then you will cover the whole. Look, I'II go into it. Take relationship, One is related to another convenience, comfort, escape from loneliness. So all these and other reasons make you attached That is, you have a great longing, because you feel lonely, and you do not know so you accept another That is, you are the centre Right? That is clear, isn't it? You have an image of your own your own sense of importance, your own inhibitions and you do not know inside you, and so you either go off to somebody psychologists or you get attached to somebody Now, we are saying, - this is only a part, go through a part completely That means not theoretically, end your attachment Completely end it. Face wholly your loneliness. That may be why and to escape from the loneliness that becomes the pattern, So, face this extraordinary Q: Which means no escape of any kind. Q: When you say go slow... I have taken one part, and I'm going through that part, is it because I am lonely, I want comfort, Psychologically, all this. - that's not Through the part, if I can go step... not just theoretically play with it Seeing I'm lonely, I'm going to understand what Why am I lonely? Is it all my activities - my seeking God, my seeking clairvoyance, You understand? Is this all a means Which is my extraordinary sense My vanity. So if you can drop those things, Then I have discovered a state in which there is no There is only dropping away You understand what I am One holds furniture, and you identify and you are that furniture. I was told by a lawyer once, a man and a woman and they had been wrangling, this property, that property And they had settled most things, and the last day the woman said, It was an ashtray. And they fought over it, the woman and the man It was an ashtray - you understand? So the lawyer took the ashtray You understand all this? We are petty, sir. So we are saying, that is not moving Right? That is, a centre which is lonely and moving to a centre Right? The centre is lonely, to move to a centre is still the movement Just see that. If you see that, then you enquire, Is it that my actions which are isolating me all the time? You understand, sir? I am ambitious, I am greedy, I must have this - all that, in the world So, the essence of loneliness So, is there an action Q: Are you asking that now? Q: Is one of the things that slows Q: Doesn't that slow us down? No, wait a minute, this is You must have physical security, But security we mean not only that, And we never question whether Inwardly, one has found in God, in some fanciful idea. Is that security? You may find security or in your husband, boy. And when you have see how dangerous it is. If you have sought security then you become attached, - the whole agony begins. Don't you know all this? Q: If there's no security K: That's right, sir. When you see psychologically the very seeing is intelligence. Right? Obviously. In that intelligence there is Q: Sir, you asked if there is Can we return to that question? The only action I know that is K: Now, just a minute, sir. The only security, he says, Q: The only action which is not K: That's what I understood, sir. The only action that is not Surrender to what? Q: To everything. Wait, sir. Look. Careful. Go into it slowly, sir, don't... The Christian world has said, See the danger, which is, surrender to what people have said So I am asking, Q: The higher being within you. that is you have created Q: What about to 'what is'? K: You can't surrender You don't surrender to the sunshine. See, we use words that are so Q: Perhaps we should discuss this K: Are we, in discussing are we having a dialogue about Sir, all right, Are you being pressurised Q: No. Are you under pressure by your education, by your priests, By the newspapers? So can you be free of pressure? Q: You will be pressurised That's not going to go away. Yes, you may have pressure or in an underground, tube, So physically, but psychologically. Can you be free of pressure? From your wife, from your husband, After all, your own desire Q: Yes, you can be freed K: Are you saying you are free Q: No, that is why I am here. K: Therefore what will you do - please, just take this - when you realise that you are under Will you stop that pressure? Or your own sexual demands say, 'Well, I can't.' Q: Is there an action K: I am doing it, sir. Pressure is one of the activities Q: Perhaps you could be indifferent. Q: I flinch from pressure I seem to flinch from pressure K: You see, sir, we never - I hope you don't mind, - we never look at ourselves Look, just look. I'm attached - all right. Let me find out what it means. We say, 'No, I mustn't be attached, We are always moving Q: But when I look I don't see K: Find out, is that so? Mutation implies non-movement Which means all measurement measurement of the more the more, the less, - all that is movement So, a mind that has that doesn't say, 'I'm ignorant, So, find out, sir. Slow down the whole mechanism Q: Slow it easily, K: Just observe. Q: Which means K: Oh, no. Then activity may begin. Our activity is completely when it is self-centred Look what is happening, sir, Q: But at the moment of observation, K: Activity, sir, - we must first find out What is action? Do we act from a centre? From a belief, from a concept, Which is all a centre. And the nobler the principle we think that is extraordinary. So there is action You see, sir, if you don't mind listening. We consider all self-centred Achievement is a positive thing. We create a dynamo And to be psychologically active to be a businessman, is very active, positive action, which has resulted Right? So, there is an action I wonder if you see this. Q: Isn't that surrender? You're sticking to the word Q: Is observation part of this? K: Pure observation Observation is action. If one observes very clearly watch it, not do Negation is the most positive, Q: When one is totally observing, is that the end of all that activity? So, have you changed? At the end of an hour - is it? K: After an hour and a half, that change is non-movement Right, sir? That means, change implies Observing one's greed, one's loneliness, despair, watching it without any desire to Sir, you are watching this shade. You can't change the shade. You can't change that shadow. But we want to change Just to watch it, and then the very Of course, obviously. Q: What if we have been living and the nightmare is dying one where we the people What do you think It's now becoming a dream where we take care K: We are living in a nightmare, Only when we know Aren't we taking care Not physically, but aren't we for physical ugliness, That's enough, sirs.