can such a waste fight? They owe us a debt. haven't paid it back. I'm willing to risk my life to fight against Lai, bring the things. The debt owed by the people who came here can be canceled in one stroke. You are the one chosen by Bodhisattva. Let's go. How did she come? She and that one The white-pink girl was with us. She came here to steal without having to smoke. We caught her and took her away. Don't hurt her. It's up to you. Will the Bodhisattva be able to protect you this time? Quit the drug and then come up the beasts. Beast and throw the target at me. Come down and get it, get it, get it, get it, hit the target, and you will have food . Come on 1 2 , do you want to stand here and shoot , or do you want to be put into an oil drum ? There is only one portion of delicious food. Whoever grabs it will be the winner. You can win today. After dinner, you three, let's go. Why don't you just shoot me? I 'm afraid I'll miss. It doesn't matter. You still have a chance. I'll put it aside and help out later. You're very skilled. You taught me well. Dad Kun asked me to replenish the batch of girls I recruited. What is the most outstanding Taoist friend who came from drug addiction ? He sold himself and ran away without money. Later he came to us looking for goods and was caught. You are very optimistic about him . He is indeed good. Bring him here for me to see. I heard that he is one of these new people. Your gun is the best. Answer what Dad Kun said. Give me more bullets and I'll practice more. I'm just biased. His gun feel is indeed the best among this batch. Is it possible to teach Burmese Knife? It's not too late for me to teach you. This is the most practical Burmese knife in the woods. Sometimes it is even more effective than a gun. I don't want to learn it. I want to help you kill people . If you don't kill people, they will kill you. If you don't like this place, if you want to leave, Isn't this you can bring it with you. After walking back and forth from Savage Mountain, you can go wherever you want. The young master you mentioned is not asleep yet. Ah Le, come up and have a drink with me. Is there any news about Young Master Mia? There is no young master . I have been in a place like Savage Mountain for more than ten days. It has been 15 days. There is no way anyone can come back alive and give me a pen boat . Dad, if you ask, just tell me that I went to the casino in the market and missed it. Only then can you teach me more skills. There are six swords missing. There is such a kinder man than the man here. I will keep my promise. As long as you can carry it , you can take as much as you like. Within my sphere of influence, Kun Sheng, I will protect you wherever you want to go. Dad Kun , I want to learn the Burmese sword from you. Well, I will teach you. Why not? Let's go. I haven't been able to kill you yet. You've had many chances. I'm going to beat you with dignity. I 'll kill you again. Put down the gun. Put down the knife. It's all gone. Let's go. You're not happy . I'm the one who survived. You can do this. Guys, do you listen to you? They won't listen to me but they will listen to money. Let 's go and let me make some new friends. Hahaha. General, this is my sister Mia , this is General Xinmin . Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh . Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh . He is the most intelligent officer in this team. He betrayed my father just for a small amount of money and gave me to one of his men as a gift. I would rather die than obey, so they locked me up. He got up and injected me with drugs to make me a prisoner. Then I escaped wearing his clothes. He went to your red line to steal money because I was addicted to drugs , and you caught me. You didn't tell me until so late. The truth is, I have already invited Xinmin to the village. What do you want me to do now? You have ruined a villain like Xinmin just because you are interested in his money and people. Anyway, you won't stay for long. I will leave this opportunity to you. Get up, get up, you idiot. It's so boring to fight like this. You should use a knife to do it faster. Everyone who uses a knife here knows that General Jin Min is the best at using a knife. I wonder if the general can open our eyes. As soon as my sword is unsheathed, there will be blood. Is there someone there? Isn't he already dead? He still has half a breath left, just enough to feed your pocket. Don't you want revenge? Seize the opportunity , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, a dignified general . We lost to a woman. Since the general is not here, we all join the Red Heart. Please be our general. Why don't you salute the general ? My cannon is the best in the whole area. I have two shots. Look where is the tallest pine tree on the mountain? There is so much movement nearby. The patrolling government troops are here. Isn't it better ? I'm full. Hahaha. You can harvest it. Thousands of miles of snow is falling. The rock on the mountain in the 10 o'clock direction is not allowed to close. Let me see you. His name is Nanda. He used to be the best in the government artillery unit. When the platoon gunner is good, it's like he has eyes. Do you know each other? What have you handed over are yours, ? I'll give it to you in my desk. Hahaha. It's so good. I'll test you one last time. Hit the cannonball into the circle behind the stone. We have all the goods. You're crazy. Get out of the way. You'd better hit on time. If he dies, you'll die. If you hurt my young master, you'll have to fight to the death. Hahaha , I'm still there. Hahaha, how much do you need to follow me ? I already have an employer . I'll give you three times the price of the weapon. Buy him alone. He's priceless. Bring all the money. Waiter solves the problem. This money is enough for you to organize an army again. Only Nie Fengyue, Xiao Yunjie, come on. You can either take the money or nothing. Take it well. If you are willing to go with him, he All I care about is that will treat you well if he values you so much . Then our accounts are settled. You should know more. With me, you can create miracles . Old man Kun and dad can only go up to three for dinner. Godfather, Xing Tian, Mia, the three of us go up to the big boss, Father Kun. Oh, how long has it been since we saw the business is booming? Hey, let's have a good time . I 'm far behind you. Father Kun, please sit down. Please sit down. Father Kun, I'm here this time and I plan to have a few children . You. Do you still care about making these small amounts of money now? Hey, you are already in the business. I heard that you have done some new business in China. Good quality and low price. Sir, you are doing border business and I am selling to the mainland. There is no conflict between us. It doesn't matter. I am just interested in new business. I'm interested in something that Dad Kun is doing business. There's something for sale. Come and get some new pork. Dad Kun is in good spirits. It's okay. Good things. Dad Kun, we have been friends for so many years. If the price of long-term cooperation is easy to negotiate, naturally we will have long-term cooperation . Hahaha. Go and prepare some supplies for Mr. No need. You guys are so bad. Who made you stretch your hands so long ? Now someone is spending a lot of money to pave the road. How dare you snatch this piece of meat from Dad Kun? We have been friends for so many years. Let me go, I will give you everything I want. Do I still need you to give me anything I want? Abba, everything and people have found a new type of virus, which you developed. It is very good . It is useless . Dad Kun, don't leave . Dad Kun, please let me go. Come on, Dad Kun, I beg you. Dad Kun, come back. Finally, Dad made him take more goods, the price will be lower. 20%. Now all the goods go through Azan. He has the final say in such a big place with only one exit. You also know that the road to the north is blocked by the Chinese military and police. It's really untouchable . This is what Kun Dad means . I'd rather eat less than die. Take all the money from the remaining people. It's a lot of money. You can also give me a few to spend money on. What does Kun Dad want to do to buy people's hearts? Is Kun Dad worried? Thank you for the hard work of these people. I want to make them happy. Come with me. Red Scorpion was originally just a run-down small fishing village. What did it rely on to grow from a small fishing village with less than 100 people to a red flag that shook the entire region ? Prudence and what else? I was ruthless enough. Back then, I also ambitiously expanded the army to transport drugs into China. Later, the volume became larger and larger, and finally attracted attention. As a result, as you know, Hong Xie was severely injured and was unable to recover. After more than ten years, I will definitely help you. Take back what you have lost. You don't understand what I mean. I know you have been going north many times recently, but you still want to open the passage to China . Well, I just want everyone to live a better life . Isn't that enough now? You just want to read my heart. What I pretend to be is you. His family is in China. I always think about going back and staying with you. There is no benefit. Sure. I know you have been helping Dad to keep an eye on me. Do you want mineral tea here ? I will send you to see you or will you sincerely Help me Tiange Kunba is holding the lives of my wife and children. I was not selected and can only listen to him. Now you give me a way and I will naturally follow you. Kumba and this group of people to withdraw here. It is clear that they want to devour us. They have many people and equipment, but they are not as good as us. They are worried that they will not be able to eat, so they stop and stop. They want to eat us. If you want to get some advantages, either accept them or destroy them. If they join forces with other companies, we will be in trouble. If we accept them, there will be so much rice to raise. Is there always a way? The current business is too much for monks and too little for rice. It used to be a bowl of rice, but now we have seven or eight mouths to eat it. We don't want to add more people to cause trouble. Xiaoguai has eaten, hahaha, Dad Kun , but they are not leaving . If we start to fight, even if we annihilate them all, we won't do it. It will hurt the vitality. The neighbors will definitely take the opportunity to bargain. So use our supplies, food and US dollars to exchange for their weapons and bullets. How many bullets are there ? Exchange it for this crocodile. After the teeth are pulled out, it becomes four. The snakes will naturally fall apart. Hey, I have no appetite. But are they so stupid? How can they be defeated if they are not stupid ? Come and eat. My dear, my dear, I have no appetite. I have to go to the city. What should I bring? I will take you with me. When you get sick, don't give it to others. It's too stingy for you to want to buy my military goods even though you have the few goods you have. Hahaha, these things of yours are so old-fashioned . In a war, half of them wouldn't be needed. If we were in the south. The gun I got in exchange is ten times better than yours. Hahahaha. You are not here to buy goods. You are here to die . Hahaha. I am here to buy goods , but not these scraps. What I want to buy is you. Come on, come on, come on. Tell me, tell me, how much are we worth ? Hahaha, the whole area. These things I brought today are just meeting gifts . The deposit is the entire area controlled by Red Scorpion. The full payment is the entire area. I have always wanted to know who do you want if one of Kunba and I must die? I survived and heard from people in the village that you were the first to be tied up and that he sold me. I was born in a small town very close to the Chinese border. When I was a child, my parents both died of drug abuse. I was so hungry at home that I crossed the border. When I arrived in China, I met Kun Ba. He arrested me and locked me in a cellar. He was a trafficker at the time . I thought he suffered a huge loss and no one would buy me. There were a few children in that deep well who I didn't know where I got from. Later, more and more children were captured. The more I eat, the more I eat. I can only rely on forcing him. In that little nerve, I feel very at ease . As long as you are strong enough and ruthless enough , you can have food. In that well, no one dares to underestimate him. Later, a child escaped. When we got out, he wanted to run with us . The moment he stretched out his hand to me, I suddenly understood that my good days would be over as soon as I got out . I shouted loudly to make those stupid human traffickers catch him, but he still ran away. Sure enough, the Chinese armed police came within a few days and rescued all these children. I am not grateful at all because after I came out, I still had nowhere to go. I ran and walked and didn't know where I could go. Why do I miss that tone so much ? Take me away, go, go, take me away, please. Hey, what are you doing? This is my dad. He went out to work and was deceived. So he has nothing to eat. The child has no food in his belly. Come on, please eat something. Take the child to have a meal. Buy a ticket and go home. Thank you. Thank you, dad. Let's go too. Do you know what I do? You know . My parents are dead. From now on, you are my dad. My son went to eat . Well, he later took me across the border. The line escaped all the way here, and then we joined Hongxi . You all know that the exciting things behind have not begun yet, and the exciting things behind have just begun. Tomorrow morning, Dad Kun asked me to go to the south to deliver goods to buyers. You and I will follow. I will listen to whoever is here, Dad Kun. Everyone knows that this is your territory, and that means you have no control over it. Every inch of land is valuable . If we can work together to create a channel in China , wouldn't it be a huge source of wealth? I'm old and I just want to Let my brothers and I eat a bite of stable food here. My brothers are still young. They can't be dismissed with just one bite of stable food. Maybe I'm really old and can't keep up. Let me and my brothers think about it again. Come to see off the guests, it seems that the brothers have already thought about it. Brothers have been patient for a long time and I can't control it. Haha, I understand. Then give me a field and let me go to Zhongying Sukun . Dad, you have always taught me that the traditional leader of the Red Scorpion is to be kind. Whoever did it ? Dad Kun's kindness in bringing me up will never be forgotten . Hahahahaha. You can only use artillery to deal with this sorrow. China's special forces can only have artillery. I know, Kun. I Where is Mr. Zhang? It's too sunny. Mr. Zhang, please go to a cool place to drink tea. Where are you going? Mr. Zhang, it's better if you go alone and feed one person. I can't wait to eat again. Mr. Zhang didn't bring any weapons and just wanted to have a good time. I'm sorry to trouble you to wait for me here while you're drinking tea . Why don't you just sit down and wait? Mr. Zhang, you have to ask me to invite you before you sit down. I'm choosing what to do to make it easier for snipers to aim. Now that you're here, what are you afraid of? Please take a seat . Mr. Zhang has organized the team so well. He goes in for the people and goes out for the sake of the soldiers. The last Mr. Zhang left too early. I just followed his raft to make a living for everyone. Okay, let's have some tea first. It's a long time. This is my collection . I got it when I killed someone for the first time. Before he died, he held the jar tightly. I opened the jar and found out that it contained tea leaves. There was a key in the tea leaves . You know I opened it with this key. What are you talking about? My Mr. Zhang made an agreement with your father when he was still alive. Just like this piece of cake, the border market is yours. The inland market is ours . Since you know that the water in a well does not violate the water of the river , why did you come here? The water on my side is the fault of my son for not being sensible and not being a godly father. If the father is gone, whose fault is it? You are right, I am not strict in discipline. This is a million dollars. It has been washed very clean. Thank you for not having a son . What do you think? How much it costs is not a matter of money . Have you seen your son recently? He caused such a big trouble and ran away the same day. But I heard everyone say that you hid him. If I hid my son. Can I still sit here and talk to you? If you meet my son, help me educate him. He has already disciplined him. Save my mom. Save my mom. Let me out. Save me. How much money do you want ? I told you it's not money. What's the matter ? You can't give up your market and still want to see your son. It's no harm to your family. You should know the rules and start from scratch. Do you really think that I am waiting for you here alone? Hahaha, you don't really think that I am. Come to the appointment alone. My most powerful sniper is pointing his gun at your head. He heard everything we said clearly. Let your sniper look at the three o'clock direction, the highest position of Niutou Mountain, and look at the top of the mountain. Who is standing there? Boss, there is a tree at the highest point of Niutoushan. A man is tied to a tree and dressed like a young master. I also have a sniper aiming at your son. He can also hear clearly what we say. You have 5 seconds to consider whether to agree. My conditions boss, you let him count the young master is the only card they have left . He doesn't dare to shoot. 5 The first shot is often intimidation. 4 As long as he dares to shoot, I can find him and kill him. 3 Boss, trust me. 2 I hate the boss tree. The young master on the bed is a fake. Kill him . Come out and kill Qingtian. Stop the red line over there. Fuck . Hahahaha. General, don't make trouble. General , save me. Let Mr. Zhang go . Your boss is dead, but I appreciate you following me. Promise. Ten times more than that female colleague . Do you know how much money I earn now ? Can you afford it? As long as you can tell me, Xingtian, I can afford it . How do you call me brother? Xiao Feihu . Hahahaha. How about the new arrivals? I'm right. If you are not interested in this thing, then what are you interested in making money? You promised me that I will let you earn the money you originally paid for your position . Thank you. An Tai took Brother Hu to take a trip to Mengla and handed the goods to the old ghost. From now on, this line will be Brother Tiger ran away , but this line was finally found. To avoid trouble, don't bring weapons. If necessary, I would rather throw away the goods than expose the line. I understand that Brother Artai and Tiger are new and take care of such important goods as sister when they are away from home. Just leave it to them to carry it out. When it's a powder, it will be replaced with something else when it gets on the boat. The Chinese border is too tense. We need to throw some sparks to attract the attention of the Chinese soldiers so that we can send the real fire across the street of Mengla . Come with me,