Part of what draws us to the study of natural our origins. The more fossils that we can find and study, the tree of life -- that web of relationships But fossils can only get us so far. As any astrophysicist will tell you, the story The story of life actually begins with, well, In the aftermath of the Big Bang the universe But that mess pulled itself together into finally, into life. How did these little eddies of order form disorder and chaos? I'm Matt O'Dowd from PBS Space Time, and origin of life in a video over on our channel Just follow the links. But for us here on Eons, the search for our -- one that remains shrouded in mystery. If you trace all of the branches on the tree from the same trunk. That initial point, before anything branches, The first species. Darwin himself theorized that such a thing He called it a "primordial form into which Today, scientists call it the last universal LUCA isn't the first thing to have lived. Instead, it's the common ancestor of everything It's the ancestor of everything we know. Today, Eons is teaming up with our friends to explore the origins of life. And our journey begins with LUCA. Even though Darwin suggested that there was even guess what it might have been -- until of mapping and studying the genetics of all Today we know that all life uses the same And the genetic code that's responsible from bacteria to humans. That's one of the best arguments to support place. It's also why most of the research that's comparing the genomes of all kinds of living One of the first to take this approach was In 1977, he discovered the existence of organisms and a key to the search for LUCA. He discovered archaea. They're a group of prokaryotes -- simple, to bacteria. But they turned out to be so diverse, and that Woese proposed a new tree of life -- one bacteria, and eukaryotes. And, he said, where those three main branches But he saw the three domains arising not from more than 4 billion years ago, when cells In this scenario, he proposed, there were basic than cells. He called them progenotes and envisioned them by a membrane. These progenotes wouldn't have been complex They might have been able to copy their genetic So instead, they may have just floated about of genetic code among themselves. Sometimes, that genetic info might have worked Other times, not. But out of this basically random transfer key elements of life could have arisen. For instance, the genetic code that makes pretty early. But that information might have been stored To explain how that might have worked, here's Dr. Joe Hanson, host of It's Okay to Be Now, RNA, in addition to storing information, we see in the ribosome, where RNA is used Early on, RNA machines like the ribosome would So, it's likely first life arose and evolved storing genetic information in DNA later on. For more on how this happened -- and other theories out our video over on It's Okay to Be Smart. So, instead of being a specific organism, Woese thought that LUCA was the whole process make these essential molecules. And from them would have come three lineages and us eukaryotes. Now, Woese's view of LUCA hasn't been away from it. That's partly because, when Woese was publishing of age. Back then, only a handful of genomes had been And now we've mapped the genes of And that means we can try looking for LUCA from across all of the domains of life and If a gene appears in basically every living it must have come from LUCA ... or so the So, many researchers who study LUCA are trying One way to do that is by finding what they of genes that a cell can have and still survive. Since these most basic, essential genes are identify them, that could tell us how LUCA This work has been spearheaded mainly by researchers bacteria like Haemophilus and Mycoplasma. And based on what those organisms had in common, had 5 or 6 hundred genes. Those genes would have provided for a simple not for making and copying DNA. Now, as genomes go, that is tiny. A few modern organisms do have about 500 genes, need from their hosts instead of using genes Meanwhile, the bacterium E. coli has around 25,000. Could LUCA survive on its own with so few Well, another study done in 2006 found that genes, maybe around 15 or 1600. According to this slightly more recent take, more complex and may have seemed more familiar That means a genome based on DNA, ribosomes that could break down sugar for energy. So, the basics of biochemistry as we know And Joe talks a lot more about that, too, Now, a lot of this minimal-genome research the same time Woese was thinking about LUCA. But in the past 20 years, the genetic revolution Recently, many scientists have begun to argue with bacteria on one branch, and archaea plus That's because, the more we learn about eukaryotes are genetically more similar to In fact, many researchers now believe that So of course, this has enormous implications In this case, LUCA would sit just below where even formed. And based on this new line of thinking, a published in 2016, in the journal Nature Microbiology. Here, evolutionary biologists based in Germany and over 1800 bacteria in an attempt to reconstruct Keep in mind here, in the two-branch model, archaea forms of life on Earth. So, if you can find any gene in both archaea Either the two groups traded genes at some they both inherited that gene from LUCA. The researchers looked for genes that appear different groups of bacteria, reasoning that it must go back pretty far. Now, this is different from the minimal genome oldest genes, not the ones that everyone has. And the genes that were recovered in this vents. How do they know? Well for one thing, they recovered a set of groups of archaea and bacteria that live in hydrogen gas and carbon dioxide into methane. Hydrogen gas is hard to find on Earth, but one clue. Other genes they found use metals like iron, And these are all found in the same kind of Scalding-hot vents full of metals and sulfur But our earliest ancestor might have called Now, how could that be? Like, we don't metabolize hydrogen and CO2 And neither do most of the organisms we know. So how could the ancestor of everything have Well, it's at least possible, because genes As creatures evolve and adapt to new environments, That's basically why cats have genes to So by the same token, long after molecular billion years ago, many of LUCA's descendants hydrogen and CO2, and still live comfortably. Now, as awesome as this picture of LUCA is, It'll be a long time before we know enough Both the progenote model and the minimal genome but they probably don't represent the true And not everyone agrees that LUCA lived in There's plenty more research to be done. Because the search for LUCA just might be natural history -- to reveal to us where we Now, to explore other facets about the origin companion videos to this one, on PBS Space Links are in the description. And as always, I want to know what you want So leave me a comment below, and don't forget And also, tell people about us. Please. It's so good, right?