It's Germany's favorite drink. And after crude oil, it's the Coffee makes many traders and Many are forced to Coffee drinkers tend to pay a Producing it harms And conventional cultivation The fastest way to get to organic and plant coffee and it will Huge piles of So this is a superfood that The beans often travel Could this plant be grown This field will be coffee. It's time to take a hard look at how Is there another way? At 1,700 meters in the David Benitez is reaping We only pick the bright red cherries. Here in the hills the young coffee grower braves His adobe house without electricity His siblings, parents and To save the farm, they've David Benitez introduced In Honduras, most Some communities have and cut down forests to plant The many abandoned are evidence of the destruction. Conventional sun-grown coffee is Every cup of coffee destroys about five square Coffee grown in full sun which is why nearly half of has been converted for Another 25 percent David Benitez does This is a guama tree. These trees provide shade and He grows his plants in the The coffee is less The plant ripens a bit slower, Also, shaded coffee plants Full sun cultivation, however, as does the industrial Producing just one cup of coffee A kilogram of coffee That could just about After cocoa, coffee is with the highest David Benitez I wash the coffee in a barrel. Then I The rest I use It contains lots of nutrients When David Benitez switched to But not anymore. This is the answer. Our ancestors How can the big corporations without conventional We used to use a lot of everything the transnational When we first switched production dropped But then it stabilized and Every year, little by little, Unlike before, where we'd have a good David Benitez wants He's striving to convince other coffee Here, too, in southwestern Germany, This year, it looks A bunch of thistles in here, But we don't spray, so we Among the undergrowth When you hear that rattling inside Iris and Fritz Klein have developed They're finally having a We've been making lupine But the generation No thanks, we can Today's generation says: No, we Coffee produced through travels thousands of Growing lupines in Germany saves And it improves the local soil. Lupine has very long taproots and therefore can draw They stretch down to where there's water It's really a plant for the future, This wasn't such an issue back this dynamic flowering legume. Until the 1960s, lupine was the Then, with cheap soy Somehow, I was able to help bring The Kleins were also keen to experiment. Smells a bit like popcorn! The original idea was I wasn't too enthusiastic because I And who would buy it? Thirty years We then experimented because even then To celebrate the good harvest, the Kleins are serving homemade along with their caffeine-free They're also planning to launch a new It's a big day in Santa Elena: The coffee harvest is Lowell Powell unloads coffee from Lowell Powell is from the US and his wife, Mayra Together they founded The initiative sells this regional They then use the profits and social projects in Honduras. Fair trade is not enough. So, is it better than nothing? Because he doesn't have For me, what coffee is And we need to treat And sometimes giving people Lowell Powell was a prosecutor He knows the who have to give up their I left my job. I just didn't You know, you'd rather be Here I still feel like I'm a lawyer. If there's a problem, With the Catracha initiative, the couple promotes more They also support further We don't have to be increasing Why not earn 5% and then leave 15% So I think it is greed that because then we're not we're not taking care I don't think it is I think we need to Lowell Powell collects the harvests What he sees during his trips Everyone here used with good coffee varieties But then many started switching to ramp up production. Along with David Benitez, the that there is a better way. It may not turn a quick Gloria Ventura took over the My husband used to do everything. Her husband abandoned the If the rust fungus hits, sometimes the fruit doesn't One year it's a good harvest Full sun cultivation and climate paving the way for to spread rapidly Since 2012, it's been of thousands of coffee farmers... who emigrated with their Many thousands of attempt that same trek every they usually take and send their hard-earned Of Santa Elena's two thousand left their David Benitez wants to show those Coffee grown in shade is Step by step, the farmers should Together they draw up a plan that will Gloria can plant trees all This will increase the and micro-organisms and Gloria Ventura is among who have joined the Catracha Community. Most coffee growers and what they earn goes to paying We harvest and dry the beans and The coffee market fluctuates the farmers earned on average Fairtrade brings in roughly Through the Catracha initiative, But better pay is David Benitez and the Catracha to benefit coffee growers. Change is also Carole Widmayer has traveled This is the cascara, the leftover that we hope one day So this is a superfood that And if we can turn that into Carole Widmayer has come to This is her first visit to the is being turned into All of that coffee! We are still a startup. And one of our biggest challenges and companies who can buy We're creating a Buenos dias... You The coffee supplied by the Then it's sorted, The industry is focused But the cherry encasing it 322 million tons per year of It's a major The heaps of rotting acidify the soil and The facility manager how the team processes This is the Coffee Flour team. They transport the Back there, they catch the fruit and are discarded. This saves Carole Widmayer's company in from the dried fruit. It's got the dried fruit notes that we look for Farmers have not Now we will pay them for Eighty workers have been Flour and flakes are already Recently, coffee cherries All of this is available to be sent But it's not only in the that coffee cherries are being Let's go. We get to go Carole Widmayer wants and see the fresh fruit Wow. I finally get to taste one. Oh, it's got this wonderful Various types of coffee grow on Until now, local residents didn't suitable for consumption. Time for some where three meals are prepared So how many tortillas That's almost 1500 For extra and They're testing out how dried coffee The new ingredient could offer In addition to caffeine, the coffee cherry contains a lot of And it's more than The farm's manager is This is a really good idea for the they just drop it into the rivers But how does it taste? Here In my aftertaste, Like a sweet tortilla. In the US, some restaurants incorporating coffee Chef Jason Wilson shows off in his upscale restaurant. He's been working with and is constantly We did gnocchi, we did some I worked with this, to figure out the water replacement Because this is fruit and it's a very high Jason Wilson wants to with coffee cherry David Benitez has many ideas on in his home country -- all On the Catracha he's devoting himself to his We're growing more than What we're telling people to and grow a diversity. And this is And permaculture gets the We're sharing our knowledge with the and avoid using pesticides And so these are things that So our hope is when people come David Benitez combines the with the insights of He knows how vital it is to and waste nothing. If we take our coffee to a mill, But when we pit we can turn the fruit A young farmer from the Now we add micro-organisms. Every thirty days? Sometimes two or three times. This is a great fertilizer, which -- for all crops. Alongside coffee, he's planting fruits, on his family's two hectares. Mixed cultivation and provides his family The best rebellion is to so you don't have to depend Against the odds, David Benitez has managed to He's also introducing new methods The young coffee farmer is If I went, for example, to the But the money I'd send back here That makes no sense. If instead we produce what we that's the best wealth there is. One of our dreams is where growers can come here A man who inspires When it comes to coffee,