Thank you for coming today. &quot;Thoughts on the Future of Programmable Money&quot; and then I change it just before I go on stage. This is all improvisation, folks. I will be talking about universal basic finance. At the moment, we are at a crossroads. We are having a great debate about A lot of people are expressing some The backdrop to all of this, are the people who aren't In 2013, I visited the beautiful country of Argentina It completely changed the direction and trajectory For the first time, I didn't need to explain the &quot;why&quot; of Everybody there was interested in only one Because the &quot;why&quot; is already Someone came up to me at the conference &quot;I was [almost too] terrified to come to this conference.&quot; &quot;I am afraid of what might happen &quot;My grandparents were kidnapped &quot;We didn't see them for months and thought Think about that for a second. When we talk about financial inclusion, But we have no clue, from our position It shook me to the core. I have had conversations like that every People will come to me and say, What does it mean to be unbanked? The World Bank defines &quot;unbanked&quot; as 2.5 billion people and live in cash-based societies. Conveniently, they only count heads of household. Spouses and children are Only the primary earners matter. Yet we know that in the vast majority of the world, [day- But they are not counted as the head of household. To be unbanked is not to simply To be unbanked is to lack connectivity to in trade and commerce, to [be unable] to get [To struggle] to build a future for your children. When we look at [those conditions], we think, Wrong. Absolutely wrong. They don't have access, documentation, or Sometimes they don't even have the clothes, without being kicked out by a security guard. That is what it means to be unbanked. What does that do? It creates enormous poverty around the world idea that as long as every participant must through this surveillance system and end crime. By believing in that false idea of we condemn billions of people to poverty. We talk about financial inclusion from the perspective The world I live in. As an American citizen, I can not only open without restrictions and access investment Capital, liquidity, and credit. A stable currency that won't destroy itself Hopefully, most of the time, institutions or [rapidly] destroying the currency in order leading to financial collapse. How many people have that? But if you count people around the world it is maybe 1.5 billion people. After 2013, that is why I started saying strongly That is what financial inclusion means. Our regulatory system is actively We have finally reached a point where access The average person must do a dance to filling in reams of paperwork and application forms, We are even condemning cash: the ultimate that has provided basic financial Cash has one fatal flaw, which is not that It is not that it can be used by criminals, and defraud people by the millions. It is available to everyone without vetting. It is an open, transparent, neutral, verifiable, But its greatest weakness is, it is constrained It doesn't have enough range and scale. Now we have a new form of digital cash, and transportable. This one is also borderless, censorship resistant, doesn't want it. It [does not require] privilege or identity. It can be used everywhere in by simply downloading the software on That is the real revolution here. While we have our little privileged discussions how much we should regulate cryptocurrencies, Fuck that! [Applause] Cryptocurrencies are about providing universal everywhere in the world, What will people do with universal basic finance? They will build a future for their children. We are paralyzed with fear because of a few have state privilege and endorsements, hand-in-hand of surveillance capitalism. They fund dictators and drug lords all to the tune of trillions [of dollars]. The real terrorism and drug financing doesn't it happens through millions of barrels of who get caught again and again. They will pay a fine that is worth a fraction of they have contributed to. Not a single person goes to jail. Some people still have the audacity to say How magnificently self-righteous. In the United States, about 18% of the population That is 60 million people. Once, when I recited this fact at a banking and asked, &quot;Why should we That is a chilling question to ask, but let me translate it to you in words &quot;Those people don't deserve the When your neighbor says, &quot;Those people don't You suddenly realize that you are living next to a bigot. But when this banking regulator asked, I calmly responded, &quot;You shouldn't. We will.&quot; [Applause] At the last conference I attended, after I gave my speech a young man in his 20s came up to me and said, He had been living in western, developed countries able to open a bank account. &quot;Every time I write my name and place of birth &quot;I was born in Iran. I didn't choose that. &quot;I have a job and I pay my taxes.&quot; &quot;All I want is to deposit my paycheck and buy groceries. This is the face of the unbanked. They are walking the streets around you, in this bought and paid for by banking corporations. This enclave is the Vatican of capitalism, Invisible people such as janitors and service who don't have a bank account. They must take their cash paycheck Maybe they accept checks or other They are charged 10-30% to send money home to their That is the unbanked, right here in this city. Don't imagine the great masses in Africa, South America, They are right here. They are forced to live in that position so we can from totalitarian surveillance. This very conference is being sponsored by worth of marketing [for] surveillance [tools]. They are promoting and advancing the state-of-the-art. You all have their name on your badge, This company shares and sells your data that data to intelligence agencies. This lovely trickle-down surveillance eventually the bodies of journalists with hacksaws. Don't fool yourself: it is not possible to separate from the moral implications of your actions. I say to all of you, when you are hiring people just like if I saw companies like General [If they worked for] any company in our space and selling [our data] to the highest bidder, If you declare moral bankruptcy, you should to find a job and being interrogated about your ethics. Just like poor people are forced to spend that they deserve the privilege of banking. We have some deep moral choices to make. World governments are trying to abolish cash, for billions of poor people. It is not because they don't work; It is not because they don't deserve [better]. It is because of where they born, the documentation In Saudi Arabia, women are not allowed This is the case in half a dozen We look at that and say, &quot;Shame on them Then we turn around and do the same thing I am part British, part American. I need to apologise [to dozens] of countries I know in my heart that every time I pay taxes, I still pay, because I am also helping people on welfare. When we make these moral choices, we need Surveillance is the license that gives They will commit crimes, the worst of crimes. I know Britain doesn't use the metric system, For example, a mega-crime is where you [fraudulently] We perform surveillance and analytics to catch but who is surveilling [the actions of] Lockhead Martin? Do you know why? None of them will ever go to jail. The regulators are completely captured. This is a system of controlling all finance over the lives of millions and billions of people, cutting They are not privileged enough, they are not Guess who that system attracts? If you build levers of power like that, the very like flies to shit. They will grab hold of those levers of power and We have built societies in which one If you don't believe me, look at what has capturing billions of people around the world every day. Let me end on a positive note, because you You should be. This is serious stuff. Open, public, borderless, transparent, neutral, They will not be regulated; they cannot be regulated. Not by committees, only by They provide certainty, programmable consumer They provide access without identity. Eventually, they will give billions of people not They will democratize the functions of banking, They are pre-vetted by agreeing to download That is the only vetting required in these systems. &quot;But we can't have people make &quot;But we must regulate this!&quot; Six billion people need this. You have neither the moral authority nor You can't stand in the way of what will be in three centuries. Universal access to basic finance.