Would you give up your home for your We've always called it home. The community has mostly been evicted. Short Creek. Technically, two towns: The community straddles the state line called Zion by chance. These are sacred Latter Day Saints. Mormon Church a century ago, and settled where they could practice polygamy and undisturbed. Their lifestyle is specific Everyone obeys the authority of the the only way of life I've ever known. Most of them are related in one way or Evictions are like the ultimate They would rather give up a $500,000 house symbolized that they were violating what it's an agreement with a land trust that The FLDS Church used to control the trust, those who've left the church. and all their property to that land trust, It was land for their children, and their children to grow up safe and secure in a live our way of life, wanted to, but you couldn't have land-- The UEP trust still owns most of the it controls the property, controls the the parks. But the church no longer Warren Jeffs. Warren Jeffs is the prophet for life for sexual abuse of minors, many In 2005, when Warren Jeffs landed on on the run, the state took over the land trust. That was a direct attack on our faith. distrustful of the outside world. Inside the church, information is kept government or believe the news, so the Warren Jeffs being a convicted pedophile who speaks the word of God. From prison, Under Warren Jeffs' leadership, rules became by choice or excommunication. Those still with former members, known to them as feel like they've made their choice. The ones that came back after they they should leave. Many of these living side-by-side but totally cut off For me, I didn't believe in the exact didn't go to the same church that I was to leave. I had no intention of ever Jeff Barlow moved back to Short Creek to evictions. In order to stay in houses sign that agreement with them -- sort of the faithful because the trust is now the church, and the FLDS won't interact alongside them. Religious homes won't property taxes, or sign their agreement. agreement, just that it means dealing FLDS families are being evicted by the Is there anybody still inside the house? This is what they want us to sign. To sign this is like saying, &quot;I acknowledge you own our sacred of the FLDS.&quot; When taxes get to be five property to the county. We're gonna have and give them an exact list of the the home. Then we got a 10-day pay-or-vacate notice. packing up. I always come back to you. Always come is one of religious persecution. But from opting into their plight, acting on them, it's real, regardless of the right crimes of their leader. It's what they've only does going against the church mean literally a matter of being banished them is worse than eviction. Pretty much religion or used to be -- except for last year. Though never FLDS, she once she believed to be a prophet. The for her. This is the famous crick. So now women in similar polygamist situations. Dignity. I just love it here. She's taken for the FLDS in the UEP. By doing this, evictions. And there are people that are just losing their home, they're losing their sacred places, they're losing their everything they've ever known. evicted. The FLDS meetinghouse was evicted. Then, the storehouse was evicted. donated or consecrated, and the This was the storehouse, surrounded by walls around town. These walls are being This is really emotional for everyone in People stopped to watch. Gelene was kicked built these walls with everyone in the walls finally come down. We'd go without food, everything we could to help build those down in minutes... emotional. an apostate, and he had tainted me. hasn't had any contact with her friends afraid to even get out of the car 'cause I didn't talk to me here. Not everyone is sad religion. These dear folks just don't get perfect priest and man, but he's nothing walls are coming down. There's a walls coming down. Norma's home was also a plan to keep her house, despite the agreement. And I wrote up a letter of this address, to pay the taxes yearly.&quot; It because I don't acknowledge that they Christine brings the letter to the UEP violating her faith. This might seem a bridging the chasm between those bypass this violation of their religion were stopped. They have paid delinquent taxes and going forward they've also agreed to meet some of the minimum requirements for dismiss without prejudice. Once we get show, and that the tax, they're paid and we can avoid any evictions altogether. Helping people feel safe enough here that they dare eviction of four houses already with next batch will come? We're supposed to rather do is give you time to talk to a letter is coming, then he can delay it off the posting list? Yeah, if they're doing taxes, and Can we get the letter today? You think stable in your life, and your religion, sudden one day, started looking and searching into the I had no idea. It's a hard road. Some people diversity, other people look back at the times where the whole town all belonged to homogenous, but we live where we live, we right now and right here. We're all community, we're gonna have to find a way to coexist. I want my grandchildren to live here, and fences because it keeps our children in sacred land. If you're interested in more land rights issues in Utah, Bears Ears National Monument was just opened to a claim on the land, so NBC tried to.