February 27th, 2024. Kylian Mbappe attends a state French President Emmanuel Macron, to honour the Emir of Qatar. The France international, clad the Qatari Emir, the French president, and the While officially a routine state dinner, the event Mbappe had conveyed to those in his inner circle Paris Saint-Germain upon its expiration, with his to join Real Madrid. Despite reports claiming the dinner, Mbappe was the sole attendee."Vous spotted mummering to the footballer. "You're but half-serious, attempt to dissuade the World has been the face of Paris Saint-Germain for with his senior superstars Lionel Messi and become synonymous with the club. These superstar club's Qatari ownership, which began in 2011 shares through the state-run shareholding a subsidiary of the Qatar Investment Authority, 2011 takeover, Paris Saint-Germain has undergone of the most popular and fashionable football clubs transformed into a business in and of itself, club's worth to be over PS3 billion. The club in 2022 when they extended Mbappe's contract reported salary, as per The Athletic, costs Paris it was reported that Macron held a private meeting which played a pivotal role in Mbappe's contract centred around being the standard-bearer for France and for Paris Saint-Germain. "I want you are so important for the country." These were as revealed by Mbappe himself. For a while footballing world. He gained access to the French 2018 and 2022 World Cups. In the former, he was and Paul Pogba. On the surface, it appears that we all know, nothing is as it seems when it comes draw closer to the national team's crown jewel, influence the athlete's choice to stay in Paris. is rooted in two things. First, having the play in the nation's capital, undeniably provides to the nation and enhancing its reputation. When the first thing that comes to people's minds. a farmer's league because of its perceived lack stage. But with Mbappe, one of our generation's attention is suddenly directed towards Ligue 1. certain degree of prestige to the league. From European nation would be both a financial and behind Macron's insistence on Mbappe's staying close relations with Qatar for decades, engaging deals. Just last week, it was announced that Qatar startup companies and investment funds from 2024 convened specifically to announce this investment during the diplomatic event. Now, Mbappe leaving the 50-year-long bilateral relationship between Consider how influential football is as a tool for clubs, national teams, and individual players role of the footballer is no longer confined footballers and pundits are expected to voice matters due to the significant influence they this influence to advance their own agendas, agendas. Quite often, the football player also football players leverage their influence to on national and international issues and using Mbappe serves as an unofficial envoy for Paris Saint-Germain, which is immensely beneficial for Qatar image-wise, due to the reputational Having one of the most influential football being the face of your state-owned team helps also enjoys political advantages by having Paris Saint-Germain fosters France goodwill with Additionally, it establishes a direct line of enabling him to convey his message through the evident in 2023 during the Nahel Merzouk stop the rioting was perceived by many French it's important to note that the player also has Despite having frequent dinners and forging still has the power to do what he wants. This was when 50 people from the world of sports published urging the French public to vote for Macron over is just as much a player as he is a pawn on the million per season deal made noise in 2022 had questions surrounding the power Mbappe was being his 2022 deal with Paris Saint-Germain included was set to grant the football player significant ranging from managers to sporting directors to PSG's stature would give such executive privileges a rule that most football fans agree on: one than the club. We as the public will never fully but the fact that they were even conceivable in Paris. But even with these reports removed, its it comes to both his career and image, which is in so drawn out. Whether it's his meticulous control personal sponsorships everything Mbappe does both himself and his team. So, while Mbappe may be executives and politicians, the footballer