How do I download all Hi everyone, This is a surprisingly common using OneDrive and they actually want all or somewhere, or they're trying to Good on you. Or they're in the process of they want to make sure that they've got in OneDrive before they turn it off. There are two basic ways One is using the app and com online. I do have to throw out an important caveat and that is simply this. Whatever disk you plan to put enough space to hold them all. Now that may sound obvious, in OneDrive, and because of the way extensively, it's really not that uncommon files than your hard disk can contain. Now, I'm in this situation, right? My laptop, I think, has a terabyte worth of stuff in my oneDrive. So downloading and all won't like I said, there are two approaches. One is using the app, which is going on your machine be on a disk The second approach, using oneDrive. com, won't have that restriction to use whatever disk you choose. So let's quickly take a look it means to do that there. So here I am in Windows eleven. I am right clicking on the OneDrive icon We'll click on settings. There are two features in OneDrive is used by your OneDrive files. Both of those features The first one is under account. It's this item here I'll click on it here and we'll see selected to be present on this machine. It is possible in OneDrive to have one of They're unchecked. When that happens, not only are the files but that folder doesn't even So step one is to simply make sure available, absolutely everything. So click ok on that if In other words, if there were some files being downloaded, you may now while OneDrive synchronizes. In my case, I'm already The other scenario, the other feature this over in sync end backup down. In advanced settings you'll see Files on demand tends to confuse a lot to is that with files on demand enabled, but its data will not be there. The file will not take up any space. Hence it's a space saving feature. But when you then use that file downloaded at that time. Not beforehand, but the first time Like I said, that's I use it myself extensively because that I want in OneDrive, but I just don't In this case, we want to make sure is actually being downloaded to the pc. Obviously the button to click on You'll get a warning or some information is going to be taken up and what And then once you click continue, on your OneDrive folder. And you can see here that there is one in the process of synchronizing, were at one point marked as don't So once the synchronization is finished, of the folders and all of the files, is no longer showing its little all of the files are now on your PC. You can turn off OneDrive at this point. You can copy all those files Basically, if you back up your pc at this in all of the files will be included So what if this isn't an option for you? For whatever reason, you don't have the pc because your hard disk is too small. Or perhaps you have already no synchronization is happening at all. You just don't have the option to set the There's another approach, You do not have to have the OneDrive app implies you can do this from any machine com on. So I'm firing up the browser com dot. Now interestingly enough, com, the default view may or may not It may be one of those for you. Recent files, whatever the icon on the left called my files. In other versions, it may very well just but the bottom line is that's that's where we happen to default. Now to be clear, and this actually on my part, I'm looking at a com, not for any particular reason And it highlights the fact that I can on this PC is looking at the account com dot. Great, that's a Microsoft account. It has a onedrive. However, the one we're looking at here This is askleotestmail. com dot this is a completely different So we have our own OneDrive here. One would think you can click on this list of top level files and folders somewhere and something will happen. Unfortunately, that's not the case. What you need to do in a situation do this for documents right now, with the check mark, right click on it. And now you'll see that If I click on the download option, you can see a documents zip file that and folders in the documents folder. Now you'll notice this One parent. All it really means is that I've already before setting up this recording. However, that's the bottom line here. If we do this again for again, we have a download option. Interestingly enough, if we get the option to download them contains the contents of all of them. Now, you'll notice one thing I've At this point, the personal vault cannot I'm going to go ahead and unlock it here. You can see now that I've unlocked have the option to download it. What I have to do for the personal vault, is actually enter the personal vault and contents, whatever it is you want, and But that's the bottom line here. Is that the way to download the contents com without needing anything on your the files and or folders that you want on them and click on the download link. The reason this can be useful even if you we've seen, one reason is you can do it having to play around with your pc. The other, of course, is that and you can download it to any drive. In other words, if you don't have where your OneDrive folder exists, and when it downloads, download Anyway, I hope this helps clarify all of your OneDrive files. Like I said, two ways. OneDrive app, onedrive. com either way, you can you've got it all backed up for For updates, for comments, and more, please visit askleo. com. 169 844 I'm Leo notenboom Askleo.com. Thanks for watching.