[FLAMENCO GUITAR] This gem of a film won Academy Awards It's number 2 on the WGA's list of the Many consider it to be the finest work of Here are eleven screenwriting secrets in The [MUSIC] Story structure generally follows the form Inciting Incident, Rising Action, Crisis, It's also been demonstrated that good scenes giving us a nice beginning, middle, and end. The same is true for sequences. Sequences in a feature film can usually stand having well-contained narratives that follow In The Godfather, there are three examples First, we have the California sequence. Let's take a look at how it breaks down Woltz: Woltz is listening. Tom: Give Johnny the part in that new war Woltz: Why didn't you say you worked for Corleone, I thought you were just some cheap two-bit hustler Johnny Fontane never gets that movie. Now you get the hell out of here. And if that goomba tries any rough stuff, [SCREAMS] The second sequence we'll take a look at as it's also the Midpoint sequence. It's the point of no return for Michael McCluskey has agreed to be the Turk's bodyguard. Sollozzo is being guarded like this, he is It will be me, McCluskey, and Sollozzo. Then i'll kill them both. I left it noisy. That way it scares any pain-in-the-ass bystanders away. Michael: How much time do we have? They pick you up in front of Jack Dempsey's And finally, we have the sequence in Sicily. I want to meet your daughter. No! No, Appollonia! So the lesson here: Don't forget general story structure at It'll give a satisfying form to the acts, [MUSIC] It's very understated, but there is a theme In fact, we're exposed to it by the very Amerigo Bonasera. Bonasera: I believe in America. America has made my fortune. And I raised my daughter in the American fashion. I went to the police like a good American. I stood in the courtroom like a fool. Then I said to my wife, &quot;For justice we must So we essentially have thematic arguments Mafia way. Bonasera's failure of avoiding the Mafia for Michael's character. When he first appears at his sister's wedding, It's a subtle way of showing us that he's to America than to the ways of his family. Then we have Enzo, who wants to stay in the He was paroled to help with the American war been working in my pastry shop. Now that the war is over, this boy, Enzo, You want Enzo to stay in this country In a brilliant moment of dichotomy, while Paulie is disposed of In the famous midpoint sequence, Notice the name of the restaurant. Louis Italian-American. It's the point of no return for Michael So it's fitting that he flees to Sicily Once in Sicily, it's interesting that Fabrizio He's the one that tells the G.I.s to take Theme is like icing on the cake. Sure, it's still cake without it, but would [MUSIC] In screenwriting, we must respect the audience. That means giving them the pieces of the story for themselves. In other words, let the audience figure it lazy lines of expository dialogue. For example, Tom Hagen says this seemingly The senator called. He apologized for not but said you'd understand. Also some of the Smart audiences will infer what it means, I need, Don Corleone, those politicians that you He had all the judges and politicians in In this scene, we have an odd reaction from And if that goomba tries any rough stuff, Yeah. I heard that story. But we know what Woltz is referring to because When Johnny was first starting out, he was With a big band leader. Luca Brasi held a gun to his head, and my father assured him that either his or his signature would be on the contract. In this scene, there's a small but curious between Sollozzo and Tom. And what is the interest for the Tattaglia My compliments. But the audience knows the reason for this Tom: The Tattaglia family is behind him here They have to be in it for something. And of course, the audience is put to work Now listen, whoever comes to you with this Barzini he's the traitor. Don't forget that. So when this happens later, we don't need Respect the intelligence of the audience and [MUSIC] If there's one thing that The Godfather constantly push the narrative forward into This makes the audience race ahead and think In other words, we're kept in a constant state For example, we have Michael's visit Look at how they keep pushing us into a future Do you know my father? Men are coming here to kill him. Yes, Enzo. gonna be trouble. Put your hand in your pocket like you have You'll be all right. This creates a sense of dread as we wait Another example: Tom Hagen ponders the consequences of getting Tom: Now, with the money they earn, Then they come after us. If we don't get a piece of that action, we Not now, but 10 years from now. We're also given a dizzying array of possibilities Sollozzo: We have Tom Hagen. In about three hours he'll be released with Sonny will come after you with everything That'll be his first reaction, sure. The other New York families might wind up just to avoid a long, destructive war. Tom and Sonny discuss the consequences Again, pushing the audience into the future All the five families will come after you, The Corleone family will be outcasts. How bad do you think it's going to be? Pretty goddamn bad. Probably all the other will line up against us. How long do you think it'll be before I can Sonny: At least a year, Mike. And finally, we have the impending doom Tessio: Barzini's people chisel my territory Pretty soon there won't be one place in Brooklyn Forgive me, Godfather, but, with you gone, me and Pete will come under Barzini's thumb Barzini will move against you first. He'll set up a meeting with someone that you And, at that meeting, you'll be assassinated. The audience is also pushed into the narrative intent. This makes us want to know if they will The audience wants to see what's really Someday, and that day may never come, I want you to go tonight. I want you to talk to this movie big-shot Sollozzo: I want you to help the Corleones. And i want you to help me. He wants us to send Michael to hear the proposition. And the promise is that the deal is so good I want you to find out where that little pimp I want his ass now. Right now. I want to meet your daughter. [Fabrizio translates to Italian] With your permission and under the supervision of I want no acts of vengeance. I want you to arrange a meeting with the Michael: But I'm gonna wait. After the baptism. And then I'll meet with Don Barzini and Tattaglia. There's an emotionally stronger version This compels us to want to know the outcome For example, Tom Hagen is sent to California Notice all the threats that are exchanged. Tom: You're going to have some union problems. Are you trying to muscle me? I'm going to make so much trouble for you, Mr, Woltz, I'm a lawyer. I am not threatened. I'm going to run him out of the business, Now you get the hell out of here. And if that goomba tries any rough stuff, Maybe your car could take me to the airport. Mr. Corleone is a man who insists on hearing Sonny Corleone is the king of threats. I want you to take care of that son of a I don't want to see him again. Understood. You give him one message: I want Sollozzo. If not, it's all out war and we go to the Some of the other families won't sit still - They may hand me Sollozzo! You touch my sister again, I'll kill you. The brilliant screenwriting in The Godfather frustrated. Just before Michael goes to the hospital to No, Kay. There's going to be detectives there. So our attention is piqued when we see There's a brilliant example of frustrating Michael plans to kill Sollozzo and McCluskey. Here's one expectation: Let's set the meeting. Get our informers to find out where it's And the frustrated outcome: Not a hint. Absolutely nothing. Even Sollozzo's people don't know We receive another expectation: Louis Restaurant in the Bronx. Is it reliable? And the frustration: We're going to Jersey? Maybe. Expectation: I want somebody good, and I mean very good, The gun will be there. Frustration: Another expectation: Clemenza: Then you get up and you go take Then, when you come back, you come out blasting. So, of course, what happens? Michael sits at the table. When it comes time to kill the men, Clemenza: And don't take any chances. Two shots apiece in the head Michael shoots Sollozzo only once. And we have this: Just let your hands drop to your side and Sonny: Did he tell you to drop the gun right Michael: Yeah. A million times. So what does Michael do? He lifts his arm to drop the gun at the last The Godfather is a masterclass when it comes constantly engaging the audience to want to [MUSIC] If you want to make vibrant, complex characters, Godfather. There are blatant contradictions between what We're not murderers, in spite of what this [SCREAMS] Sollozzo: I don't like violence, Tom. Come on. You think I'd make my sister a widow? Characters also immediately contradict themselves Even the shooting of your father was business, Well, then business will have to suffer, all Didn't want to get mixed up in the family now you want to gun down a police captain? Why, because he slapped you in the face a You're taking this very personal. Tom, this is business, and this man is taking With our policy banks up there in Harlem on a bet. Papa never talked business at the table in Sonny, Tom, I'd like to talk to you, maybe I could be doing a lot more for the family. We don't discuss business at the table. In real life, we're all full of contradictions. Do the same for your characters and make them [MUSIC] In The Godfather, when there are moments something usually happens to agitate the scene. For example, Luca Brasi rehearses his speech When he's finally in the room with him, This creates an extra level of tension. Another example. In this scene, Sonny receives an important Notice the scene agitator. [BABY CRIES] Here, Michael receives a phone call from Kay. Notice how Michael is inhibited by all the Kay: I love you. Huh? Kay: I love you. In this pivotal scene between Sollozzo and constantly frustrated. Try the veal. It's the best in the city. McCluskey: I'll have that. [SPEAKS ITALIAN] Mama Corleone takes a call from Connie. You can see that it's a common technique using children to agitate scenes. [BABY CRIES] Connie, talk louder! The baby's crying. And finally, Don Tommasino has to give grave So, of course, what happens? [CAR HONKS] It isn't anything necessarily crucial to screenwriting, but using scene agitators could mean the between having good scenes and great ones. [MUSIC] If you want to make the conflict in your use a third character to create a triangle This adds another emotional level to the scene. For example, we have the first meeting with The conflict is principally between Vito I need a man who has powerful friends. I need a million dollars in cash. I must say no to you. Then we get another character to form the Are you telling me that the Tattaglias guarantee - Wait a minute. See how this adds another layer of emotional Otherwise, when Vito says no to Sollozzo, Another example. The family is at the dinner table. We have the first side of the conflict: Connie: Papa never discussed business at the Carlo: Hey, shut up, Connie. Then we get the triangle. Sonny: Don't you ever tell her to shut up. Notice how we get yet another triangle here. Mama: Santino, don't interfere. As the balance of power changes in the family, and Michael. Clemenza: Give me a chance to recruit some Michael: No. I don't want to give Barzini Tessio: Mike, you're wrong. Notice how they bring in the third character Tessio: Forgive me, Godfather, but with you me and Pete will come under Barzini's thumb And I hate that goddamn Barzini. Then be a friend to Michael and do as he says. And finally, in this brilliant scene, See how many triangles they use here. Moe Greene will sell us his share of the casino and so it could be completely owned by the family. Tom? Hey, Mike, are you sure about that? The Corleone family wants to buy you out. The Corleone family wants to buy me out. No. I buy you out. You don't buy me out. Is public? Oh, no, that was nothing, Mike. Do you know who I am? Tom, you're the consigliere. -- Just a minute. The Don is semi-retired and Mike is in charge So if you want to spice up the conflict in your and give it emotional complexity, think about [MUSIC] For a rich story world, full of possibilities characters should be unique and different This is especially true for the Corleone siblings. First, we have Connie, who's not involved Then we have Sonny. He's hot-headed. Quick-tempered. More brawn than brains. Fredo is sweet and mild-mannered. He's not the fighter that Sonny is. Michael is cool under fire. He's cold and calculating. For example, he considers Tom Hagen his brother, Maybe I could help. You're out, Tom. He doesn't react immediately to threats. We had a little argument, Freddy and I, You straightened my brother out? He takes his time and calculates the best Michael: But i'm gonna wait. After the baptism. I'll even include Tom Hagen here, who was taken by the family when he was young, and considered He's all business. I'm gonna make so much trouble for you, you Mt. Woltz, I'm a lawyer. I am not threatened. Can you give this letter to Michael, please? If I accepted that, in a court of law they that I have knowledge of his whereabouts. Your father wouldn't want to hear this. Even the shooting of your father was business, We even have character orchestration with Tessio and Clemenza. It's even in small details like the way So if you want a rich story world full of be sure to orchestrate your characters. [MUSIC] An interesting aspect of The Godfather is that, characters still adhere to their own moral For example, an obvious subject matter is And I raised my daughter in the American fashion. to dishonor her family. his family Never tell anybody outside the family You're my older brother, and I love you. But don't ever take sides with anyone against Women and children can be careless, but not I worked my whole life. I don't apologize The mafia dons also have their code when it Instead of gambling, which they regard as But drugs is a dirty business. It's not like gambling, or liquor, or even which is something that most people want I want to control it as a business to keep I don't want it near schools. It's a useful aspect to think about when What's the code they live by? [MUSIC] In order to have meaningful, organic conflict characters have conflicting objectives. They should be in full opposition to each This is overwhelmingly accomplished For example, in the California sequence, here's I want you to talk to this movie big shot Johnny the part in that new war film So, of course, we get the best form of conflict Let me lay it on the line for you and your Johnny Fontane will never get that movie. I'm gonna run him out of the business! Now you get the hell out of here! In this scene, we have Tom arguing with Sonny. Sonny, we ought to hear what they have to No. No more. Not this time, consigliere. No more meetings, no more discussions, me a favor, Tom. No more advice on how to patch things up. Notice how they're not arguing simply for opposing objectives. The big conflict in the story starts as Vito Corleone I need a million dollars in cash. I need, Don Corleone, those politicians you I must say no to you. Your business is a Not only do we get the conflict in that scene well. [SPEAKS ITALIAN] No more attempts on my father's life. What guarantees can I give you, Mike? And finally, we have quality conflict in this from directly opposing objectives. The Corleone family wants to buy you out. No. I buy you out. You don't buy me out. I do you a favor and take Freddy in when and then you try to push me out? I talked to Barzini. I can make a deal with So remember, don't just add artificially created Think about the characters' goals and make sure [MUSIC] The character arc of Michael Corleone in the a law-abiding U.S. war hero But a good character arc isn't a sudden change It's a gradual process that occurs throughout This makes it natural and believable to the Let's take a look at the gradual Where's Michael? That's my family, Kay. It's not me. Hey, Mickey, tomorrow. You get a couple of guys, you go over to to show up. Maybe we shouldn't get Mike mixed up in this Come over here, kid. Learn something. You see? You start out with a little bit Papa's all alone. Sonny: Don't panic. I'll send somebody. I won't panic. I'm with you now. I'm with you. Put your hand in your pocket like you have What's the Turk paying you to set up my father, Take a hold of him. Miguel Corleone. There are people who'd pay a lot of money But then your daughter would lose her father. [SPEAKS ITALIAN] Instead of gaining a husband. Michael: I'm working for my father now, Kay. But you're not like him, Michael. I thought you weren't going to become a man That's what you told me. Connie: You killed my husband. You waited until papa died so nobody Michael, is it true? No. Clemenza: Don Corleone. It's a good lesson for screenwriters. Don't try to force a character arc into Let it be a gradual change that is surprising So what other films would you like to see Let me know in the comments below. A sincere thank-you to my wonderful patrons Also, be sure to subscribe and tap the bell More great content is on the way. Thank you so much for watching.