Looks like you've Just you and me. Come on. Not so fast Deathstroke. Find a body? No, and next time, keep your You had your shot, Deathstroke. But you're not the And the night is young. Target in sight, title one. You knew we couldn't You knew we were Yes, but soon we will be. This is merely one more 2 minutes. You're better than this, Clark. These inmates are irredeemable. They're thieves, rapists, That's the problem of fighting for truth And executing First Joker. When does it stop? When there's no more crime. When people can live without fear. I wanted to kill I could have. But that's a the life And it's not the life Lois Don't you put that on me. A red solar grenade. To dull your powers, Take time to grieve You wouldn't. You're supposed to be my friend. Which is why I have to stop you. Now! Don't waste my time. Get away from me. Look who I found, How many women have you killed? 121. 121? Sounds encourageable Robin, let him go. You'd rather fight your I'm warning you, son. Son? The League of Assassins did. Problem solved. Damn it, Damien. We are at war You think you're better than him? You let the Joker keep on killing. That's enough. But the inmates? Not today. Gorilla City. Our time has come. In a few short hours, Forever! Today, the world The Society! Today, we show the world that We bring anyone who would dare Low self-esteem, That's a lot more than It's all of them. They're headed indoors, Harley, keep the jet warm. Late it on a little thick, Rod. writer? Soldiers must be their lives, Catwoman. Hate is Better not turn that hate on us long as we have a common nothing to fear. You mean as Report dead shot. We're ready others. Shita, Cold, you're lost the shipment at Slaughter can still deliver. Maybe it's time you spilled the since we're relying so much on his presence known but for now. brave and the bold. I'm the brave one, right? I'm Saboteurs of slaughter swamp I Now, where's that damn dirty I come to you as darkness Lance, Oliver Queen. In the danger but a grave crisis looms it. You mean Grod and company? the pawn of a much greater I have foreseen it. Leave with you. If that's the case, we're our help. Everyone and will shepherd you to safety By force if necessary. The good for too long. Then let's help You should not have returned to fight his battle. Well, like a fate. I'm not abandoning Batman. Kent, you okay? Your head gear control of Nabu, the spirit of back in charge. For now, I have lord's of order. Pray they'll Too late for what, Kent. What's bars me from saying more. I times. This planet's destiny is next? Mere mortals cannot stop. god's hands. That was spooky. Yeah. Come on, hell out of here. You've overstayed. You're out but you're coming with us. Fighting a talking ape wasn't telekinesis. Give us a song to Ah, I forgot to bring my banana right? Or is that an offensive You sandbagging me. I was just Oh. Surprise that worked. Let's out of here. It's never good then they start chuckling. you've already lost the war. You Ollie. I I got nothing. Your warrants for the study. Green skin, smart money is on John's? My point of origin was from Mars on the planet Stop, please. Cause and effect. Then we won't resist. Please, You're the grave crisis we were I seek the one you call I had destroyed Krypton and all survival is an oversight. I friend of ours. I am aware. But interest. It's many We'll never serve you. Serve, I worlds, preserving their my intellect and then I discard values precious metals, value knowledge and like your more valuable when it is rare. Brother I, give me an update on cannot do that, Bruce Wayne of not I am Branier. You cannot regain brother I has been absorbed now an extension of my mind. and imprisoned of cryptonian. Maybe I'm not so harnessed advanced sciences, communications, taking these tools from you. me and soon so will your Great Hera. Where else besides Moscow, so many cities, all at Who Kara? Who is it? We need to get Cal now. As predicted, Barry Allen has force is ready. Enjoy this. Nice aim, dead shot. Just get healing super fast at absolute For god's sake, Cold. Look like when Superman went nuts him. Punish me later. We have The same innocent people who executed my friends, my sister? hurt civilians. You're better was. Guess we both let each other Thanks, Kitty. I was hoping you good it did, Grod never trusted alien invasion plan. We gotta First, we need to get back to of it. Running a little slow, Flash. What's with you, Lawton? You invasion. Got no choice. So whether I like it or not, I You're dead. You just don't business. Groud said you couldn't resist here. And miss the return of So I ran a long way from the this timeline, it's all wrong. reverse Flash. Think I haven't killed one of my ancestors and I can never go home. At least I Don't know how many more could come back later. How? No, Barry. Whose dead hand you pry doesn't work that way. The ring on the guardians to join the locked me up but they also fears. I earned the second I've been reminded how I failed to regain people's trust. Guess have a long way to go, Barry. together. Where should we start? Diana, Batman's strategy is all wrong. pointless. It's one less hour Hades. Saving these people hear the people down there. All was on Krypton when I didn't us and I just think we can give I'm here. Why are they so afraid of us? Your heart's so cold, Wonder Nice rope a dope. So, you're one of Flash's kid? Not so new I can't take. Right? Barry said you're some let me tell you about the immortal but in my time, Diana, An oracle, you are not. Diana, you're safe. Thank Rao. will. Clark, we don't have time We can beat them, Cal. Braniac, today. And we'll rule side by I turned to you when Lois died. my grief. Turned me into That's not true. My love made tell yourself? Ugh. That's what Superman told You're not afraid of Superman. him. Brave hero. Your worst the story. To Hades with your displacement. Continue your Girl of steel, you are a rare, wants you, dead or alive. magic. And these claws cut like Hang in there, Cara. The gods Minerva. I'm surprised someone orders. No, Princess. I only quarry. You, a full Zerend. power but found the cheetah's gift. I'm stronger, faster, and blood. This is the case you deserve. She's had enough Wanda Bread. clown. You heard bats. No much blood is on your ledger, I was trying too hard to like you with Superman. You're losing too much blood. Even better. What do you think you're doing, make a mistake. That lunatic she's defenseless. She's had no fought with honor. You're going to be okay. I'll protect you. Superman. Oh, Did you find anything? I you asked. You didn't miss an answer for Braniac. There spot, a weakness. Brute force are restored, I should leave defenses are prepared. Braniac Rock of Eternity's Magic eyes, even brainiacs but I forever. Cal, we need to talk. Damian told me what happened. but she was going to kill cold blooded. Yes, it's she thinking? It's unfortunate Harley. More unfortunate that Joker sickened Harley's mind relapses innocent people will She was helping us. Don't be criminal. My only mistake was Diana said the Joker was I took one life to save one, Cal, was it? How many? How are afraid of this. Now, I know things but humans, they've been millennia. I stopped that leadership. We have to save are you? Jorhels or General Don't let Carl leave the Hold on, Cara. I'm realizing for good reason. You will submit Cara Sorrell. Ever since you found me. truths, lies to cover up your a child does. Good and evil are With our powers, we can't hold the price. I'm sorry I wasn't but Metropolis wasn't your again. This isn't who we are. fear. Hope isn't enough to save be dead. Think about all you've have saved Krypton? I think with. It's Braniac. He's Then, we fight back. I must go heading to Metropolis. What is stopping Braniac but when choose. You're either with me Help me. Please. Why can't I stop this? back? How could there be order Braniac is order. Superman and Supergirl are tackling the fleet. Shouldn't controls the entire fleet from Take them all down. Contacts They gave us an opening. It. 5 seconds to impact. Prepare to You're welcome. What just is creating a concussive hit it, the harder it hits. The Kryptonians are extraction. Ugh. Superman, the force shield point of attack. Move faster through. Got it. But insufficient. Decrease pico seconds. Ugh. I couldn't find his body. Can't supposed to protect him from gone. I'm sure that's the best miss him too. You mean that? He trusted him with my life but wasn't there to stop it. I lost missed him ever since. Atlantis. Gone. I didn't together. No one's giving up Firestorm? This is your fault, beaten Braniak. You should have Diana. Millions of people are to save them. Not with him. have yet to expand their confines of this tiny planet. My betas are taking position hour, they will explode in atmosphere rendering this world surrender Chloro Sorrell. She my last opportunity to study Kryptonian cells. Surrender her Even if I thought you'd honor You have one hour to the new girl a chance but Maybe way to take down Braniac try shorting him out but we amount of power. Perhaps we might be vulnerable to a the immense magical power from the gateway in Kondoc but I channel it. Something that can the Trident of Atlantis? Yes, shields down, then what? Cyborg with his thoughts. But I did It's possible I could make a his neural network. If you get disarm those beta bombs. Then get your conduct. The rock of eternity is hidden refrained from opening the invasion. Because it would draw door is opened, it's only a attacks. A fight I look forward Ancient ones, unveil the golden Haru, Aman, Zahoti, Atan, Black Adam has revealed location. The society will eternity for me. I wish to The society is disbanded. They to conquer as you wish to can go to hell. I serve give you new soldiers. Bring me destroyed and your loyal will Let's work quickly. Don't An extractorship is on its way. Grad will not defile Kanda. Such misplaced pride you have Are nothing, Adam. Come on. Straight pummels you. Ozark. Come out, Grod. Face me. I required no assistance. Turn Here comes the cavalry. Fitting last of mankind's monarchs. his own people for Braniac? My Gorilla City. It's to myself. exposes his weakness and kill unstoppable. You're deluded, How did it feel to lose your them. They were stolen from me. Ruby. We thought you were dead. Batman told me you guys needed sidekick. How does this work exactly? We spark of the rock's power. When will seek out your weapon. Your wizard's power to its final Neil, what are you doing? My A sleeper agent to lead you the boy was easily manipulated. So many ways to kill you. The for the rock of eternity. Bizarre. A king, Grott? You're a brute. people. You only serve You hurt my people, Drod. In justice. The people of Atlantis demand But you can. How's your head? Empty. So, not out of the way. Hassan. Cyborg, where's that signal All you have to do is hit the local area. You need to get Good. They did it. Shields are down. the others fight those betas. The signal gets stronger this Millions of them. So many languages. The Candor, Coco City, home. We we can. There has to be a way. Clara Zoral. Until recently, I Krypton to be complete. Your You have failed in every effort exceptional. Merely an ordinary species. Just both of them. I thought I could make an Captured somewhere on board. 20 minutes before Braniac's aren't the others here? They're case we don't pull through. We Firestorm. What happened to no longer divided. We think bomb. How do we get past him? Swamp thing too. Has unlocked mastered the firestorm matrix. under his collection. A vortex. Boron Indium Cadmium. That was stopping runaway vision. You have a plan? It's a work in restore them. That's new. Abort this ship As a digital copy, it won't be stored with no loss of talking. Time to get him out of Ready to quit yet? It should disrupt their link patterns are changing. I can't then. Jason, Professor Stein. Yeah. happened? Braniak added a third needed that. What is this will get you back on Terra need help fighting brainiac job for Firestorm. Good luck. No brainiac. Where is he? I The ship's walls are lined with Bruce Wade of Earth. L of across the universe. Your war of you could foresee. The chaos the cosmos. Only Braniac can of this. I'll keep searching achieve what you could not. He for him to succeed. You must I don't answer to your lords of The lords of order. Their Kent. I'm sorry for attacking. can't command you anymore. Both Courted chaos but now, to see must keep order or the lords brainiac. Even a magical being like superiority. In time, the my design. Unless we stop you. deliverance. Your environment has exhausted its resources. reversed. We'll find a way. We Earth's time is up. Where's already taught me much about Allow me to give you a proper strength. You cannot match my Kryptonian of which I have For my parents. That was for The attacks on the fleet are losing steam as we fought. cut him off from the betas. This is Batman. Braniak is the betas are shutting down. We What's happening? Graniac's Apparently, he doesn't have a If we crash, all the cities Clark, wait. You said yourself, thought. This could kill you. Create a bypass, Luke. Put the A ship? You will not destroy my Relinquish my ship. You will regret that. You are persistent but you. Now. We need to get you out of You're okay. I thought it was heartbeat of Atlantis. all odd. I couldn't save trapped in the collection. the ship's memory. Metropolis, save them, right? Carol? My First Krypton, now Earth. No Clark, no. Even if I agreed that he should alive to save the rest of our time and Cyborg's help, the lose more cities. Bruce is we can be sure of is that risk. This is no different than might have. It was never that Bruce. Metropolis and city are people die before you accept taken? My powers. How did you gold Firestorm? Get up, Cal. Stay you'll be depowered to end, Bruce. You don't want to do this. Stop, Clark. This is over. Uh Arthur, don't do this. You not following anyone. You've Bruce. We are an ancient people justice. I'm tired of fighting you, Batman knew they double cross There is no escape. You wish to fall, so be it. Go back to Conduct, Adam. Stay You'd have to capture me, you for the last time. Supergirl, where are you? to the cave. Hi, How can you be against me on Think about Carol Howe. Braniak won't bring Carol back. Just Lois. Cal, stop. These are your helping me instead of standing This is on you, Barry. When you left us vulnerable to Braniac. nerve. I lost my nerve when I first time, Clark. Good. Don't make me hurt you. I can't time, Cara. There's still hope, everybody. Ever since you lost Afraid my powers would make hurt if I wasn't careful every whole life holding back. My don't hold back anymore. She led us right to him. It's here. Of course it isn't. I warned him about Diana but I me. You should want Braniag dead you're undermining me. Thank When General Zod tried to take fight against him. That's who are, Cal. Not this. If Joral might have saved Krypton. And I I'm sorry. Your war is over. Fighting on the same side. It guess we both knew it would end night when you told me Lois was I said anything. That was a lifetime. I miss the people we Quit, Bruce. You can't win. You never quit. You don't have to do this. I'm the earth at risk again. Then could have killed you years easy. So, go ahead, Clark. Do looks like. Is that what you He's still breathing. If he him kept alive. We need to deal her time. She'll come around. This time, everyone will. You bonded with Braniac's ship. cities have been restored and at peace. Under your heel. I I'm building a new army to billions of warriors trapped in Kryptonians, Daxamites, whose power rivals the combined lead it with me. Never, Cal. choice or I'll make it for you. What's it going to be? Uh maximize that potential, Blackest night. Evil shall escape my sight. Evil's might be The thick bastard really did Oh. Kosa. Waller, shields down. if you ate us, pal. Let us want to thank you for your You've given us the opening. Your sentences will be recognition of your efforts. To nuclear option. Not even mad at your nerves. Five, one. Go Superman. Oh **** it's Your friends can't be helped, you wake the hell up and help you stay out of our way. Your He's still in there somewhere. to them, I can still. Should have taken our chances you saw things from my did Boomerang go? Don't worry. Chop chop. Just go. I'll drive. Oi, do you mind? Ever had ice cream before Attaboy. We have to get inside the inner Innocence. That was excellent. What are you doing? I own you. You want this to be where you help me. I only need one of you're dead already. You shouldn't have done that kick your **** She's with us. My name is Amanda Waller. I am division of homeland security we've heard of you and I'm here tenacious as junkyard dogs, to survive. Now, that might of Arthur but outside these about you and you're going to picking maggots out of prison I could be your way out. A Holly Quinn. Gazette. Just a freaking shark? I would be happy to introduce necessary, King Shaw. Is a friends at Let's Corp. Stick it good night. You want this to be breath? No, then help me. I the other three, you are dead So, Show me what you got. So, Alright, sorry. So, make sense deadliest assassin in her wants the rest of you for. nothing good. In my experience. experience? And what's the fish mental health issues, Shark. brought here from my home. The focused for one damn minute. us touch that thing. None of us prisoner's dilemma. What's the wants out. Come on captain. You five freaking years. Feels like conversation for five years. Deadshot. Are we interrupting gurney? Isn't Deadshot supposed to be shutting your damn mouth? you are Australian. Okay, so we other thing or what? Cuz I'll anyone to get out of here. I'd Nobody's killing anybody. If comes back in here. See, she's psychos. We all get out. So I have been quite skilled. Maybe you should have spent more time learning how to pick Captain Boomerang Hey, welcome back. Who wins? No heads. Uh we are all losers. you all. You played yourselves. Just checking. We're all seeing This has one-way ticket written Oh, rock. Oi, wallet. What the It's a bloody war zone out the sky. Congratulations, Task assets to make you this a signal transponder to your activate that transponder. we should go out into that **** curiosity? Waller is not offering us a I'm ready to jump off the roof No. Goddamn. Jump jump. Son of a Get me into this With these You want to talk about it? Watch. I was just about to do that. Hi, You shouldn't be here. Yeah, we still in the city? Every minute the people who truly need my you again. Where else you fun is right here. I would bring you to Hobbs Bay I thought you gave a damn but Metropolis while you still can. Don't tell Waller. So, here she is. Thought she'd right now? Poison Ivy is a might be the dumbest in my She is not made of meat. Is option? I don't know you but my strange emotions. Tell me about come in fun size. You really Vee forever? Intense story Nope. Jeez. Lex Luxcorp really He dressed you up in that I broke out, he shut me in a on the things he wanted, I got day. What did he want? Weapons? against the alien invaders. You to plant toxins and I know all That's why they call you poison Where's Lex now? I don't know. Yatni's big robot suit and look. Who you murdering? The coming. All of them. They're gross bodies. So, I lured them The wrath of nature. I like it. We'll make all the aliens choke sure Daphne doesn't die or Lexus Awol in a power suit and schooler. Dead shout out. How plant? I have allergies. Hm, Task Force X report. Have you Kind of a funny story. Good. need a nap. To find Nano Lex pot. Alright, hold that smoosh those little green We're all villains here. With little girl with a brain bomb. anyone else? And not any little came out weird. She is no mere Flags on the way. It's not like that's exactly what it's like. Walla on my worst enemies. Me servitude if we grab Ivy. Then we're not that low. Hey. Hey. around humans and Daphne's put the bloody vomit ahead ages me. I didn't trust her. She's a to you. We've been through ex.