- [Mike Corey] Warning. This documentary contains Viewer discretion is advised. We're in deep right now. I'm covered in blood and feces. And most of it's not my own. It's been a crazy day. So, often I find myself Well, actually, it's because the people who are know how deep we go into But in this video we see a bit of blood, but we also see an that hasn't really been shown before. So if you're new here, keep an open mind, and keep an open heart. Just because something seems weird to you, doesn't mean you're right. People live different ways. Cultures are different. There's no right way or wrong So there are some shocking I promise you. Please look at it with Eye of a traveler. Thank you. Fun fact: There are only that have never been colonized by Europe: Liberia and Ethiopia. Ethiopia is a true The lower Omo valley, especially, where you can see some of in the world, still living traditionally. We'll be visiting many of But first, it's the Mursi tribe, famous for their lip plates, They've been called the most Well, what I've learned in my travels, is to not judge things And also, that the world can be unlocked with good local contacts. So, meet Gumbo, who helped And Abye, an amazing local And, also joining us, Ben ... - [Ben] You're already - [Mike] a talented videographer, who's always up for an adventure. The goal of this series in And there's no better First, we arrive at the Mursi cattle camp, a short distance away - Oluturra. I notice some of the boys have paint on their faces and bodies. I find out it's not actually paint. (cow moos) (ash and soil scraping) (hands rubbing) Okay? We're gonna get a little bit of um (they laugh) Little bit of Mursi skincare. Smells about right: ash and dung. (Mursi spoken) It's used for beauty, and for sunscreen. (men laughing) There we go. Uh-huh. Cow dung, ash, little bit of dirt. The man to my right is Olu Chalare. He's the chief, and he's armed with a Kalashnikov and This man is a warrior. Before we came, people that we should be scared Why do people think that? He's put off by the question. He doesn't think it's true. - And why do so many Mursi have guns? - Mm. Then you get strong. - Big muscles. You can fight. Pa-pa-pa. And protect. And tell me about these here. These scars. Kinda like this, but different. The girls love men who have - [Abye] Yes. That's to attract the girls. - Oh, thank you. My artist would love that. Yeah. I love this. This is very beautiful, But what did they use to do the circles? - [Abye] With the razor blade. - With a blade! Does it hurt? That was about the same for me, actually. But the ladies like it, right? Besides getting ripped Mursi men compete in a called donga, where to beat the living shit The winner gets his first pick at a wife. But you need cattle to And often it's over 30. The area is under a lot of pressure, after several hydroelectric on the rivers here. This has changed the and caused rival tribes to raid the Mursi, and steal their cattle. It's tough times for these people, and life here can be volatile. That's from the Hadza tribe. - [Mike] And then tattoo Have you scars? - Hm-mm. Scars and the scarification And then the chest. Oh, that looks deep. And some bracelets, and the Uh-huh. Amazing. Me, just this, this, this too. Uh-huh. (scoffs) Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. A bit later in this video, I end up getting a few scars of my own. There hasn't been that much So the cattle are being kept in a place away from the village. So here, this may be what eight or so. Another maybe 10 or 15 over there. If you have wealth, how We use bank accounts, but basically it's kind of the same thing. These cows are kept here. Each one's worth a certain amount. You feed them, they produce interest, which is basically just That's what they eat here, actually, is the milk and blood of the cow. They generally don't kill them, because it's worth a lot. Again, you don't take a You kinda live off the And these boys here enjoy partly because there's free food all day, so they can get jacked. And part of this culture And if you ever tried to put on muscle, you know you gotta eat a lot. And here it's not protein it's blood and milk. And that's a good job putting Oluturra wants to show us how without killing them. The men make soft noises to relax the cow, which sounds strangely like a chicken. The Arrowhead is small, into the animal's neck. After the blood is taken, And while the cow's a little Then he drinks it, faster After, he wipes his mouth with a rock. I thought blood was something you sip. But my man Oluturra here, had ... this is what, two liters, It's basically down to the bottom. That's one stomach full of Crazy. Smell, honestly smells like milk. He obviously doesn't Should I do it? (smacks his lips) (Mike laughs) (Mike blows his lips) And I use the rock, right? Like this? - Uh-huh? Like this? Funnily enough, it's not the (Mike laughs) And what I told myself before, was that is it any different than If you like your steak Maybe a little bit. But surprisingly it It does taste kind of like ... The texture is like congealed jello. And now there's a bit It tastes like I bit my tongue. (laughs) But when you drink it, it's still warm, and it doesn't even... You would think it's like Something really strong blood taste, but it doesn't really And if you just kinda close (jug thuds) you wouldn't really know Though, there, the aftertaste. Yeah. The after tastes kicks in pretty strong. - [Ben] Is there any left? - Yep. - You certainly can. Sit next to our man here. - I just wanna try it. - [Mike] This is why I hired you, man. (others laugh) - You wouldn't even know. You wouldn't. - Yeah, no, it really, it really isn't. Like this is... Ben's telling the truth. It really isn't as bad as you think it is. - [Gumbo] This is how we do it, right? - It's how we do it, Gumbo. - You wouldn't even know it's blood. - Gumbo, you're saying we. So hey... Gumbo is saying we. - Come on, buddy. - Let's do it! Let's do it! This is how you do it. This is how you do it. (loud bantering) Gumbo's saying we. - No. I'm actually vegan right now. (men laughing) - You had steak last night for dinner. - Join my club. - He had steak last night for dinner. - I'm a recent vegan. (laughing continues) - [Mike] Oluturra continues I can't say I'm ready but it looks good. Right? (Mursi greeting) - Muscle city. Mursi warriors. After breakfast, the cows And we load back into to visit the women and (upbeat drum music plays) Excuse me. (Mursi greetings) So actually, we were here yesterday, briefly, before the sunset, just to make some friends. One thing when you're visiting whether it be back home in Canada, for me, or here in Ethiopia, is you can't just barge into and expect to be welcome. Imagine if someone did that to your house. So we came in yesterday, had some fun for a few hours, and then we're coming The boys, though, that was Honestly, I'm just super And, like always, I just try That's kinda like my secret. If I have a secret. I don't know. I just really appreciate So, let's go say hi. (pastoral music playing) A few of the women are selling bracelets. A few have lip plates, To break the ice a &quot;What makes you happiest in life?&quot; And what about these? These scars? Can you tell me about those? - Oh yeah. (indistinct) And what does it mean? And does it hurt? Uh-huh. Like that. Ah, with the thorns. Ah, do they use, this is - [Man] Yes, that is what they use. (woman laughs) One of the girls we meet is Natui. She learned English in She told us it was actually And the kids made fun of her, I asked if we could And she said, follow me. (pastoral music plays) Natui! - Hey? (laughs) This is all sorghum, right? - Yes. We love them. And it's for, you make porridge? So these fields look like but this is actually sorghum, which they make like a corn, (breathes out heavily) Back in the day, it was all just cows. But it's been hard to graze cows. They have some, but they've (laughing) Seems if you lost it. Oh! - [Ben] What happened? - The leaf cut my lip. - [Abye] Yeah. Yeah. They're sharp. - [Mike] Yeah, super sharp. (Natui laughs) Just didn't expect to get cut by a leaf. Fun fact: a lot of grasses This is your civil science and silica is glass. So grass has glass And one just cut me in the lip. Maybe I'm being a baby, Natui, I lost you! - [Natui] Here. Come. Come on. - [Mike] Hello? - Hi. How are you? I don't know where we're going, but that's usually the best - Come on. - [Mike] Where are we going? - We going here. My mum. (leaves slapping) Let's go. Look here. Mum. Look Mum. - [Mike] Oh it's another, it's your mom? - Yeah. - [Mike] Ah. We set up a couple cameras and we heard the story. So Natui and - My name is Mike. - Mikey. Or Mikey. Some people call me Mikey. - Mike. - [Natui] How are you today? - [Mike] I'm good. Natui speaks English, by the way. A little bit. - Yes. - She went to school in Addis. And so we'll speak a little English, and then a little Mursi, I think. - Yeah. - And when she is unhappy, - [Abye] I don't have a husband now. Hope I can find a good (Mike laughs) - Maybe that's why she's - [Gumbo] Okay. (indistinct speaking) - All right, all right. Understand. When you went to school, what did the other students - [Abye] They got scared. - People were scared of your lip? - [Mike] It's a tough situation. Personally, I want to live in a world, where things like lip plates exist. It's the magic that makes But it's not my decision to make. The last thing I want to see is people with blue jeans and iPhones, but who are we to hold people back from having these things, I guess I just want to before it's gone forever. Speaking of which, when in Rome, and since like it's the coolest thing in town, I thought I might give it a try. I mean, how bad could it be? Right? We're gonna get hand sanitizer. We're gonna sanitize it first. (chatter in Mursi) And she's gonna sanitize her hands first. And we'll be doing this Bloodborne diseases are a real thing. So while this is definitely gonna suck, at least there's nothing to worry about. One second! Hold on! (girls laughing) - Let me prepare myself, before you dice me open Okay! (breathes out heavily) We're gonna give this a shot. We've rubbed dirt onto Well, we've rubbed dirt onto the area that the cut's gonna be on, which is always very sanitary, but we sanitized our hands, and we're going to do this. (scoffs) Natui puts her hand over my eyes. She thinks I'm scared. I think it's worse when I can't see. Have they started? - [Abye] Yeah. - Oh, I don't feel anything. Oh, I felt that one. Oh yeah. (background chattering in Mursi) (Mike breathes out heavily) Think you're supposed to ... It's a little strange when not to see what's happening. Some of you are probably asking: why. Well, since the beginning of time, humans have created powerful rituals to draw a hard, thick line Most of these now have been squashed. Spirit quests, college hazing, banned or thrown away, But if you don't destroy your life will do it all on its own. Without rights of passage, we especially men, who don't have The easiest way to create Travel. Go as far as you can. It should be scary. You should feel lost. You should cry. That was it? (Mursi spoken) Can she do two more? - [Natui] Yes. - Guys, that wasn't ... (Natui speaks in Mursi) I barely felt that. (Mursi spoken) - [Abye] She was being - She's been careful? I travel to create my to draw my own lines between the chapters of my life. That's why I do the things you see me do. These scenes are pretty graphic. And while I know you can handle I have to put them on Patreon and see the uncut versions of my videos. Follow the link. There it is. Oh, wow. Look at those three other lines. - [Natui] It's good? - Yeah, that's beautiful. - In all honesty - - I thought that was gonna be way worse. - Like this, is nice. - Eh, we brought some bottled But what do I think? What do you think? It honestly hurt, and but it wasn't as bad as I thought. Some of my tattoos were worse than that. (upbeat music plays) There it is. (upbeat music continues) Well, I had a bit of blood to lose, because I drank a good couple (laughing) And then what happens now? Do I leave it? And does the ash make the scar ... develop? We don't really have an It was my first time rubbing so I had a couple questions. Okay, Natui. I thank you for your help covering my eyes. - I appreciate it. Now. What is the aftercare? How do, how do I take care of this? Do I put ash on again? - No. - Today. One. - Only one day of ash. - And then what? Do I wash? - Yes! No problem. And then it'll be a scar. Right? (Mursi spoken) And then it will be, I - Yes. - Hey, what's up? Whoop! Whoop! (sighs) So, usually in these there's stuff that I can't put on YouTube, because they'll take it away. It's not good. So where I put this stuff, is Patreon. So if you wanna see some of the beverage we drank, and the new souvenir I have, that's all on Patreon. For now though, it's goodbye. I hope that you got a deeper picture of the Mursi people here today. Obviously they've been and it's very dangerous to meet them. And yeah, there was some precautions. We did have security. But hell, we exaggerate these Right? We sensationalize for clicks and for headlines. These guys are cool, and they've got a lot of cool practices. Mm-mm. It is a naked woman statue. I don't think I need one of those, but we did give some extra before we left today. We are leaving today. So, chase your fears, and I'll Yeah. (scoffs) (indistinct speech) Do you guys want a bracelet? I can probably keep the bracelet. (theme music plays)