(dramatic orchestral music) (blowing) (shouting) - Jeremiah! Jeremiah! Wake up! Wake up, Jeremiah! Don't you remember what day it is? We leave for Jerusalem immediately. Your mother's waiting outside. - [Woman] Jeremiah! Hurry! (donkey braying) - Come. The king promises a Passover they will remember throughout the ages. Do you know why today - We're celebrating the restoration of Solomon's Temple. - And King Josiah finding Think of it. The laws of our people lost for 100 years. - [Girl] Father! - And the king finds them, gives them once again to the people. It is as if God himself was giving us a second chance. - It's a great honor, for your father to perform a sacrifice at the temple on this day of all days. - As a descendant of Aaron, A Kohen, a priest, it will be your turn to have (dramatic orchestral music) - [Woman] Jeremiah, stay close to us. - Mother, I'm not gonna get lost. (all shouting) - Look at the beauty of Jerusalem is the glory of our people, and the light for all the inhabitants of the earth. (all chanting) No one can destroy this city, son. The Lord dwells in it. I want to show Jeremiah the inside of the temple. - I'll find a place in front. (dramatic orchestral music) (all chanting) - Son, do you see the stairs at the back? They lead up to the Holy of Holies. You're standing only a few meters from the actual stones that God's own finger touched to write his commandments. They are the testimony of the covenant between We must abide by his Law if we wish to remain free. - I will teach my children his Laws. - And they, in turn, shall teach their children, Jeremiah. That is the covenant. (dramatic orchestral music) (all cheering) - Who's coming? - [Man] It's our king, the great King Josiah. (dramatic orchestral music) (groaning) - Look carefully, Jeremiah. What do you see? Before I formed you in your mother's womb, I consecrated you. You are a prophet. You'll speak to whom I send you, Jeremiah, and you will speak whatever I command you. - Oh, Lord, I do not know how to speak. I'm only a boy. - Do not say, I'm only a boy. Now I have put my words into your mouth. Today I appoint you over nations, and over kingdoms. Do not fear them, for I am with you to deliver you. - But I am only a boy! - Jeremiah. Jeremiah! Jeremiah, wake up! You were dreaming. - Dreaming? Crying out in the night. &quot;I'm only a boy,&quot; you were shouting. (horse neighing) - [Man] Hail, Nebuchadnezzar, Babylon's new king! (all cheering) - You have defeated the Egyptians. Now, there is nothing left to oppose your power. (dramatic orchestral music) - Now, the world is mine. Let's go get what the gods have given to Babylon. (all cheering) - [Man] To Jerusalem! (all cheering) - &quot;For this commandment &quot;I command thee this day, &quot;it is not hidden from thee, &quot;but the word is in thy mouth &quot;and in thy heart. &quot;If thou shalt hearken &quot;unto the voice of the Lord thy God, &quot;thou will turn unto him &quot;with all thine heart, 'and with all thy soul, &quot;the Lord will again rejoice &quot;over thee for good, &quot;as he rejoiced over thy fathers.&quot; As it was spoken, so shall it be according found by our beloved King Josiah, may he rest in peace. - [Both] Thank you, My Lord. - [Man] Thank you, My Lord. - May God be with you, My Lord. - And with you, my boys. Tonight begins the Lord's day. The day after the Sabbath begins yours. - What do you mean, father? - We go to Jerusalem. I've arranged a great honor for you. Come, your mother has prepared a feast to celebrate the Sabbath. Join us, Ephraim. - [Ephraim] Thank you, but my family is waiting for me. - [Jeremiah] What is this honor, Father? - You both have helped me well in the past in preparing In two days' time, you will each perform your own. You will have an opportunity to put your priesthood into practice for the first time at the altar in the Temple at Jerusalem. For whom will you be making this offering? - The Lord. - Of course! I meant, on whose behalf? Let that be a secret until tomorrow, but it should be enough to say it will not be a sandal (light orchestral music) (gasping) (laughing) - You've been watching - No. I was-- - But you know it's proper to announce yourself when making a visit. (laughing) - I wish I had half the boldness you have. - That's why we make such a good couple. You can rely upon my boldness, and I can rely upon your sweetness. - I'm going to perform my In Jerusalem. - Oh. Come and tell my father. He'll be so proud. - No, no, I promised my father I'd be home before sunset. - But you had to see me, huh? - I had to see you. I'm late. - Come back later. - Yes. - And next time let me (laughing) - Blessed is the Lord, who has sanctified the day of the Sabbath. - To our Lord, and the King of Judah. - At least, King Josiah stood up to the Egyptians at Megiddo, God rest his soul. Now his son, Jehoiakim, Babylon arms itself on one side, and Egypt on the other. Instead of taking glorifying the past without consideration for the future. We'll be crushed, again. Judah must remain independent! - It is the Sabbath! God rested on this day. Can we not as well? - Father? I'd like to take a bride. - Does this bride have a name? - Judith. - So that's why you were late? - Yes. - Judith comes from a fine family, my son. You have my blessing, if you seek it. Speak to Judith's father and seek his. Then we can all celebrate. Our son has an announcement to make. (light orchestral music) - [Man] Get out of the way, fool! (horse neighing) - Come. - [Jeremiah] Why are the king's men here? - [Judith] Shh! I just wanna hear what they're saying. - I know in two days' time the king will give you his judgment. But I wanna give you a chance. I will pay the debt in your place, but I want your daughter in return. - [Eliakim] I prefer - Think about it, old man. Slavery for you and your entire family? - Get out! - Let's see how proud you are when you are cleaning Ezer's - [Eliakim] Get out! - How long has your - I don't know. - We'll have to find some way to help him. My father is a very Anyone who could arrange for their humble son to perform great acts for the finest people in Jerusalem must be very important. I'm sure the king will and allow your father the time he needs to pay back his debt. There's no need to worry. After the king has expressed his judgment, I will help Judith's and I will marry her. Now, surely, you must - Of course, we will contact Understand, my son, things do not turn out as and her family, according to the law, debtors will only have - Seven years! - Seven years, for those and then they shall go free. - [Jeremiah] You're not - I leave it to the prophets to foretell the future. I can only say what is happening today. And today my son must prepare himself for the most important moment in his life, his first sacrifice for the (dramatic orchestral music) - Jeremiah. Look carefully, Jeremiah. What do you see? - I see an almond tree. - What is its season? - It is ready to sprout. - You have seen well. As this tree is in a hurry to sprout, so God is in a hurry to carry out his word. It is time for you to speak. Stand and tell them - Who are you? - It is time, Jeremiah. - No. Leave me be. I'm just a simple man. - It is time. - [Jeremiah] No. No. No. (all chattering) - We will remain in the city Today it is Ephraim's turn. Tomorrow it will be yours, but I want you to so that tomorrow you'll be more prepared. - Are you going to tell us now, My Lord, what great people we will serve? - All I can say is there will be people of consequence at the Temple. - [Woman] Spices for everybody! - I'm going to hear the king's judgment. I wanna make sure everything goes well for Judith and her family. - I'll be waiting for you at the Temple. My son, it's very important to me that you should be properly prepared to offer the sacrifice tomorrow. Please don't be late. - I understand, father. Prepare well, Ephraim. You'll need it. - I'll come with you. God knows you need protection. Don't worry, My Lord. We'll be back in time. (all chattering) - [Man] And everything will be okay. Justice will be served. (all chattering) - [Man] There is only one king. (all chattering) - [Jeremiah] Do you know - It is Mattaniah, the king's brother. - [Man] Quiet. - This is a time of great prosperity for our people, a prosperity that comes as a consequence of the trust between those engaged in any transaction, a simple trust that what is borrowed will be replaced. When that trust is violated, the prosperity of our He who violates that It is our judgment that Eliakim, in refusing to pay his debt, should surrender his property and rights, and both Eliakim and his family will henceforth serve and be subject to the demands Justice as promised! (laughing) - [Man] Thank you. (all chattering) - Let him take the men. Spare the girl, that I may have her. (all chattering) - [Man] Come now. - [Ephraim] Come, Jeremiah, we must get to the Temple. - Yes, I'll meet you there. First, I must speak with Judith's father. - Be very strong. - Do you have relatives here? - Yeah, my father's cousins. They traveled from Bahurim - You must flee. She must go with them at once. Come. - I can't leave my father, my family. They need my help, especially now. - Take Judith with you to your home. If you hurry, you can get - We have enough difficulties. Please, Jeremiah-- - The Laws of God will They may not hold enough to protect Judith. There are those who will and turn it to their advantage - How do you know this? - You must trust me. - [Man] Father, let's go. Come, Judith. Go. - [Jeremiah] I must at the Temple. I cannot let him down - [Man] We must go. - [Man] Come on now. Move along! Into the cart! (dramatic orchestral music) - [Man] All right, all right! Lead the way, lead the way. Come on now! Come on. (dramatic orchestral music) - [Man] For the Lord. Offering for the Lord! - There will always be peace in Jerusalem, and prosperity for Judah, for God has chosen us as his people. That is why we gather at - [Crowd] For the Lord. Offering for the Lord! (speaking foreign language) (all chattering) (laughing) - From every country, a - [Man] Oh, that's a good one. That's a good one. You picked the right one. Now, pay for it. (statues shattering) (speaking foreign language) (dramatic orchestral music) (chimes ringing) - [God] You have seen well, Jeremiah. You have seen well, for my people are foolish. They are skilled in doing evil, but how to do good they know not. Behold, I have put my words in your mouth. You will speak for me, Jeremiah. (all chattering) - Where have you been? We were expecting you. - I know, Father, I'm sorry. - Ephraim was brokenhearted you weren't here for his offering. - Ephraim was brokenhearted was not before the king. - Jeremiah! He told me about the judgment. I tried to prepare you for what to expect. I have compassion for but God will watch over them. How can he watch over Let's get started. (dramatic orchestral music) Son, come. (all chattering) (all cheering) (dramatic orchestral music) It's your turn, Jeremiah. (dramatic orchestral music) - They have grown fat and sleek. They know no bounds in (whispering) - They judge not with justice the cause of the fatherless, and they do not defend Shall I not punish them for these things? - Jeremiah, I put My (goat bleating) - What are you doing? - Father. Jehoiakim, Mattaniah, all of you. Hear the Word of the Lord! Thus says, the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, &quot;Amend your ways &quot;and your doings &quot;and I will let you dwell in this place. &quot;Do not trust &quot;in these deceptive words. &quot;This is the Temple of the Lord, &quot;the Temple of the Lord, &quot;Temple of the Lord. &quot;For if you truly execute justice &quot;one with another, &quot;and if you do not oppress the alien, &quot;or shed innocent blood in this place, &quot;I will let you dwell in this place, &quot;in the land I gave of old &quot;to your fathers forever. 'You trust in deceptive words to no avail. &quot;Will you steal, &quot;murder, &quot;commit adultery, &quot;swear falsely, burn incense to Baal, &quot;and go after other gods &quot;that you have not known, &quot;and then come 'and stand before Me, &quot;in this house which is called by my name, &quot;and say, we are delivered, &quot;only to go on committing &quot;all these abominations? &quot;Behold, &quot;I myself have seen it,&quot; says the Lord. - He has prophesied. - Hilkiah, you spoke well of this boy, but to us it looks like he's beside himself with emotion. You served us well, and you may return, but I do not want to Understood? (all murmuring) (dramatic orchestral music) (gasping) - You shall not speak or you will die. - [Jeremiah] Father! - [Man] Do not blaspheme again. - [Jeremiah] No, no. No, no, no. (sobbing) Father, Father? (dramatic orchestral music) Why didn't you help me? (sobbing) - Jeremiah! I hear you made quite - I guess I did. - I told you I should have - It would have been wiser. - You're leaving. - Yes. - [Ephraim] What can I do? - Look after my parents for me, and keep your heart as open as Ephraim, I'm hearing these voices, having these dreams. I think God himself is calling me to say these things, do these things. When I was at the altar in Jerusalem, in front of the king, I felt this fire in me, as if God himself was speaking through me. I don't know how else these It doesn't matter. Whatever has happened has led me to do what take Judith as my wife. And for that, I thank you, my friend. - Go with God. (sheep baaing) (wind howling) (grunting) (dramatic orchestral music) - [God] Look carefully, Jeremiah. What do you see? - [Jeremiah] An overturned pot. - [God] In what direction? - From north to south. - [God] Out of the north, evil shall break forth upon all the inhabitants of the land. And I will utter my judgments against all the cities of Judah, for all their wickedness in forsaking me. - Please, Lord, leave me be. - [God] Say to them They shall fight against you, but they shall not prevail against you, for I am with you to deliver you. - Not me, Lord, not me! I served you in Jerusalem. Please, now I beg you, let me go my own way. - [God] You shall not take a wife, nor shall you have sons or daughters. - What? Why? - [God] For all the children a grievous death in this land, because their fathers - Lord, you cannot burden me with this! - [God] Go and proclaim it in the hearing of Jerusalem. - You cannot ask me to They will stone me. The king will have me banished. (dramatic orchestral music) Give me a sign, Lord, please, so they will believe me. Do not make me do this alone! Lord, do not make me do this alone. (children laughing) (dramatic orchestral music) (laughing) - Jeremiah? Jeremiah? I'm Baruch, a scribe at the Temple. I heard you were going to Bahurim. I had to find you. I heard you speak. Those words were not your own. No one can speak like that unless they're inspired by God. You are a prophet and I want to stay with you. I'm tired of the hypocrisy in Jerusalem. (laughing) - It will be a hard life, Baruch. The Lord has ordered me back to Jerusalem. - To risk your life? - To proclaim his word. If we can get the king and the whole house of Judah to listen, he will forgive them. Come. What have you brought? - [Baruch] My scrolls. - [Jeremiah] Let's write God's words. You'll read them in the - This saith the Lord, &quot;Execute ye judgment, &quot;and righteousness, &quot;and deliver the spoils out &quot;And do no wrong, do no &quot;the fatherless, the widow, &quot;neither shed innocent &quot;For if you do this thing indeed, &quot;then shall there enter in by the gates &quot;of this house kings sitting &quot;upon the throne of David. &quot;But if you will not hear these words, &quot;I swear by myself,&quot; saith the Lord, &quot;that the King of Babylon &quot;shall come and he shall - This is an outrage! - We must speak to the king. - [Man] Look, Baruch is here. (all chattering) - What is your name? - Baruch. - Jeremiah dictated these - Yes. - Baruch, we believe that We want you to give us the scroll so that we may read it to the king, and convince him Jeremiah - But you must understand, if we fail, there are those - And maybe you, too. (dramatic orchestral music) (glass shattering) - He said the King of Babylon - He said this would come to pass only if we didn't mend our ways in the eyes of the Lord. - Let me see this document he was reading. - Do you realize what he said? &quot;The King of Babylon &quot;shall destroy this country!&quot; That's treason! - As long as the Egyptians protect us, it'll be very difficult - Brother, with the our people need to be reminded of their strengths, not their weaknesses. - And Hilkiah's son, this Jeremiah, claims to speak for the Lord? A prophet? - My Lord! (gasping) - We must go. They didn't listen. The king burned the scroll. - We must try again. - Do you know what that would mean? - The Lord said he's with me, with us. He will deliver us. - How can you be sure? (horses approaching) (all shouting) (dramatic orchestral music) - I have prophesied! The Babylonians are here, just as the Lord had said. We must find a safe haven until we've written down a new scroll. Then we can continue the work of the Lord. It may be already too late for the king, but not for Jerusalem. Come! (dramatic orchestral music) (all shouting) (horse neighing) (speaking foreign language) - Father. - Say your prayers at Go comfort your cousin. - [Man] Yes, Father. - The people of Judah need your help. Jehoiakim is far too ill to deal with the Babylonians. - Do you think the people would have me as their king? - If not you, who? Jehoiachin, your brother's son? Nebuchadnezzar might just as well proclaim himself as King of Judah. - My brother was born to be king. I never thought he would go so soon. - It is a man's willingness to answer God's calling - I will send an embassy of submission to King Nebuchadnezzar. - And you must persuade your brother's son to turn himself in, along with his mother and to save the city. - The Babylonians will deport them! - And they will surely proclaim you as the new King of Judah. (sobbing) - Only after the old (dramatic orchestral music) (all shouting) - I'm sorry to hear about but you have been wise to You will benefit from this. You will be my lifelong guest Now, Mattaniah, I thank you for your gifts, and for the service you've done me. You are the new King of Judah. Your name will be Zedekiah. Of course, to maintain our favor, my ministers will we will expect as an each year. One more thing, I will take Jehoiakim's together with many of the with the exception of those you choose to help you govern the city. In exchange for that service, we will expect another sign of friendship. (dramatic orchestral music) (baby crying) - You have acted wisely, my King. Peace has been restored - And the Babylonians - Exactly. See, you don't have to listen to those madmen that think (gasping) - It's time to return to Jerusalem. - Perhaps the new King will listen. King Zedekiah should feel secure now, it should be safe for us to go. - I will go alone. - But why? - Because it is my turn to take the risk, and I don't want both of us to suffer the same fate at the same time. - King, the tribute to Babylon is madness! Our only hope, the only is with Egypt! - No! My Lord, don't you The whole world is in the hands of the King of Babylon. I think we should send and to reduce the tribute. - Forget the tribute, My Lord. If you want to be free, Nebuchadnezzar is far away again. He will not ask for tribute. He will accept some territory, where he can put up a garrison. - I think we will cease - [Man] Babylon needs-- - We can take advantage we're its ally. Tomorrow I will send an ambassador to the Pharaoh to sound out - So now you're a party with Egypt! - Well, we have to see if it's less risky to trust Egypt or Babylon. - If you want to be free, never mind about Egypt or Babylon, turn to God! (laughing) - [Mattaniah] Who are you? - It is Hilkiah's son. - Oh. So you are the false prophet I've been hearing about. - My name is Jeremiah. And I speak only the truth - And God demands you in front of this court? - To show that you must accept or Jerusalem will be destroyed. (all chattering) The yoke of slavery is upon you, and you must concede. (all chattering) - I could kill you where you stand for this message of treason. - Thus says the Lord, &quot;For lo, &quot;I am calling all the tribes &quot;of the kingdoms of the north, &quot;and I will utter My judgments &quot;against all the cities of Judah, &quot;for all their wickedness The army of Babylon approaches - Your army stands ready, My King. Egypt is strong again - If you would turn to God instead of your generals, you would hear him say, &quot;Deceive not yourselves. &quot;Pharaoh's army, which has &quot;shall return to Egypt. &quot;And Babylon shall come again, &quot;and fight against this city, - That's blasphemy! - God has turned his And he shall destroy it (all chattering) (sword clattering) (all murmuring) - I am Hananiah! The Lord says, &quot;This is how I will break &quot;the yoke of Babylon.&quot; (grunting) (all shouting) Thus says the Lord God of Israel, &quot;This is how I will break &quot;the yoke of King &quot;from the neck of all nations, &quot;within two years.&quot; (all chattering) - God has spoken through his prophet, Hananiah! (all shouting) - The Lord has not sent you! You have broken wooden bars only to forge iron bars in place of them. You have made this people trust in a lie. Within a year, you will be dead. - He has blasphemed! Blasphemer! - And you, you will be a slave in Babylon. - Seize him! (all shouting) - Thus says the Lord, &quot;Behold, &quot;I am bringing on Judah &quot;and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem &quot;all the evil I have &quot;because I have spoken to them &quot;and they have not listened. &quot;I have called to them, &quot;and they have not answered.&quot; (dramatic orchestral music) - [Man] You are a fool, a fool. (dramatic orchestral music) - Babylonians! Babylonians! The Babylonian army is returning! The Babylonians! The army of Babylon is returning! - [Baruch] Your prophesy was true. The Babylonians are coming. - [Jeremiah] How far away - About five days away. - There's no time to waste. Spread the word. When their army arrives, everyone must go out It is God's will. Surrender to him, and their lives will be saved. - What can I do for you, Jeremiah? - Be careful. It appears our pleas fall on deaf ears and hardened hearts. A hardened heart can - He said it would come - The Egyptians are that will deter the Babylonians. But Jeremiah's words inflame - All of what you say that Jeremiah is a false prophet. But if you are wrong-- - Why would God send a when you are surrounded Why would he destroy his own people? Why would he accuse you of injustices? - Elishama, you believe this man, do you not? - I remain unsure, Your Majesty, but there is a growing don't share my doubts. - My King. - You have a mighty army, but you must not fight the Babylonians. It is Jeremiah's prophecy. You must lay down your swords, you must open your hearts to Babylon, for only by surrender can (man chattering) - If God finds my rule unjust, then I must act to beg his mercy. I am declaring all of the slaves of Israel free as of this moment. (all chattering) - Your Majesty is making a grave mistake. Many people depend upon the slaves-- - I did not ask for your It shall be done, and it If the army of Babylon arrives, God shall find an Israel without slaves. Do you understand? (all chattering) - He finally makes a decision, and this is the decision he makes. - A guard reports the King - What? - He has shaken the King's confidence. Imagine what he could do to our country. - That prophet does not work for God. He works for Babylon. (dramatic orchestral music) - [Kid] Jeremiah! (gasping) - The King has freed the slaves. You're free to return to (laughing) - But what prompted this change of heart? - That is between God and the King. - There are those who would say it's because of your preaching. - You see? Your words have even - We will leave tomorrow, - I'm afraid, I'm afraid I can't go with you. - Why? I don't mean to doubt your if you go to the King, and tell him your mission is fulfilled. - It is God I serve, not the King. - Jeremiah, you have implemented God's will, the King has freed the slaves. Surely, this must make a difference. All of Judah will celebrate, and those who seek you harm now will have no cause to do so. We can still have a life together. (dramatic orchestral music) We've got so much to give to each other. (dramatic orchestral music) - No, no, no, no, no! No, no! (crying) - No! (grunting) (grunting) (grunting) - How did you-- - Shhh. Rest, rest. My cousin was able to arrange this. - You must go. - Look, I've brought you something to eat. I will stay with you. - No. You must get your family out of Jerusalem. The King's pride will God is working through - But why would he do such a thing? - He has to tear it down before he can build it up once again. - Shh. - Go. Gather your family. Start your life over. God will be with you, - I can't leave you. I love you, Jeremiah. - And I love you, too. But God has taught me we cannot always have what Why God has shown me your love, and not allowed me to but I know it is his will. - I can't go. I will stay. - Oh, you must go. - I'll stay. (chain rattling) - [Man] Seize her. - [Judith] Why? - The King has come to his senses. He's reversed his decision about slavery. - Because Babylon has turned back? They will return. - Do not interfere, Jeremiah. The King has served his God, now he has to serve his people. He has always shown a particular interest in the daughter of Eliakim. I think he'll be glad when he hears you have been kind enough - No! Let her go! - [Judith] No. (grunting) - No, no, no! No! - Come. - No! No! No! No! No! No! Guard! Guard! Guard! (dramatic orchestral music) (breathing heavily) Oh, Lord, thou hast deceived me! Thou art stronger than I will not make mention of you, or speak any more in your name. (all shouting) (all chattering) - Where are your Egyptians now? - We have three or four months, perhaps as much as a year. It will give us time to - &quot;The great Nebuchadnezzar &quot;with some territory where - [Man] My Lord? Drink. (all chattering) - [Man] My Lord. (dramatic orchestral music) (all chattering) - Who's there? I must ask you if you have Speak! Don't test my patience. - What have I done to offend you that would cause you to put me in prison? - You said things that caused - I spoke the truth. Where are your prophets now who said Babylon will not - I have not called I have called you here to - I have nothing further to say. - What? You, who predicted the and they did? You, who predicted the death of Hananiah after he smashed the yoke from your neck, and who died within a You, who prophesied the Babylonian army would attack, and now they lay siege to our city as they have You, the great prophet, have nothing further to say? - You had an opportunity but you didn't have what you knew to be true. - What? - Oh, forgive me, O Lord. (dramatic orchestral music) - Is that all you have left? The ability to grovel at - If you want answers, turn to God. - Guards! Take this man, this prophet, out of my sight. Go, leave! - Thus saith the Lord, &quot;I will give this city &quot;into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, &quot;King of Babylon, &quot;and he shall take it. &quot;And the Babylonians shall &quot;for the children of Israel &quot;have turned unto Me their back.&quot; - This man must die. - No! He is a prophet, my lord. - He is a traitor, my lord. Traitors die. - Is there nothing else to talk about other than this prophet? - What about the defense of Jerusalem? - This concerns the defense He depresses the soldiers More desert every night. - There was a time when I valued your counsel, General Safan. - And now, my lord? Who will you choose to who threaten our city from without? Discontent amongst our people from within. Do not give the people any cause to act foolishly, my lord. (all murmuring) - &quot;And I will gather them &quot;out of all the countries &quot;in mine anger, &quot;and I will bring them &quot;and I will cause them &quot;to dwell safely.&quot; - Make way, make way! - [Safan] You, come with me. (ominous orchestral music) - &quot;And I will make &quot;an everlasting covenant with them, &quot;and they shall be my people.&quot; (grunting) - Speak this treason no more! - Thus saith the Lord, &quot;Behold, &quot;I will make thee a terror to thyself &quot;and to all thy friends, &quot;and they shall die &quot;by the sword of their enemies &quot;and thine eyes shall behold it.&quot; (grunting) God has promised that if you go out to the Babylonians. It is not treason to It is sin not to! Obey your God now! (grunting) - Anyone else found will be killed. (gasping) Preach what you want down there, prophet. - Your Majesty? - Yes, what is it? - [Ebed-Melech] It's about - What? Even here? - Who are you? - I'm Ebed-Melech, a lowly - Ebed-Melech means servant to the king. - I serve you gladly, my lord. - You are one of the few who do. What do you know of Jeremiah? - I followed the general and his men. They lowered Jeremiah into the cistern. He will die there. - Good. - If he dies, the wrath - Has it not already? I could have you Why? How is it that you, my eunuch, hear the voice of God to confirm your faith in this man, while I, King of Judah, implore the Lord for a sign, one word, yet hear nothing? Pull him up. Have him taken to the court of the guard. Tell no one of this conversation or you will die. (dramatic orchestral music) - Jeremiah, are you all right? - Yes. I need to ask you for one more favor. (dramatic orchestral music) - [Mattaniah] I have but it will be your last. What is of such importance to see me? - Obey, I beseech thee, the voice of the Lord, and your life will be saved. And the city will not be burned. - [Mattaniah] So now you're speaking for the Lord again. Well, never mind, our armies are prepared. - How can you continue to lie to yourself as well as your people? - [Mattaniah] Truth is in - The word of the Lord is the truth. - The word of the Lord which you asked me to seek is silence! If God has something to say to me, why does he send you to tell me? - Why would the Lord speak to you, unless you've committed your life to him? - I have. - Then instead of erecting make your life a living monument to the word of God. - It is as my people desire. - You are king! They look to you for leadership. Your pursuit of your own pleasure, wealth, and power have taught the people to trust in false gods. You have led them to believe is not enough! You have destroyed the (dramatic orchestral music) (all shouting) It is you who has scattered God's flock! You have not attended to them, so God will attend to you for your evil. - Save me, Jeremiah! - I cannot. God will if you surrender to Babylon. - My people will turn on me if I do. They'll kill me. - No, no, that will not happen. You will live, but as a slave. - I will never live as a slave. - You are a slave even now. - Take him back to his cell. - [Man] Yes, my lord. Come. - See that he's not harmed! (suspenseful orchestral music) - It is time, my friend, to prepare for the end of our work, and a new beginning. (dramatic orchestral music) - [Man] You there, come with me. - Jeremiah, you called for us? - I wish for you to witness a business transaction. - The city is under siege and starving, and you're making business transactions? - This is Hanamel, my cousin. - I had a dream. God told me to say, &quot;Buy My field that is at Anathoth. &quot;Buy it for yourself, Jeremiah.&quot; - You preach that the and yet you buy land as - Thus saith the Lord, &quot;I will gather the remnant of my flock &quot;out of all the countries &quot;and behold, I will make a new covenant &quot;with the House of Israel. &quot;But this one, I shall &quot;and I shall be their God, &quot;and they shall be my people.&quot; (suspenseful orchestral music) (all shouting) - [Man] My lord, the We must flee. - Bring my sons. (suspenseful orchestral music) - Thank you, Father. - Go. Thank you. (all shouting) (horses approaching) Come! Come, my sons! Come, come! Come! - Wait, my lord! My lord. Surround the king! Surround the king! Lay down your arms! (suspenseful orchestral music) (all jeering) - You do not bow to your conqueror? - We bow only for the one true God. - Your God put you here! So in order to please your God, for I do not wish to anger any god, no matter how minor, I sentence you to death. I'm sure that's what your God wants. Do you have any final words? (all shouting) (dramatic orchestral music) You have to speak up. We do things quickly here. I understand there has been who told you this would come to pass. - Jeremiah. - Jeremiah, yes! That's the one. What did he say of your future? - He said I would not die by your hand. - He did? Well, we must keep your And who are those handsome young men who tried to escape with you? - My sons. (yelling) No, no! - This is the last thing you will ever see. Alive, as your God told you. (screaming) (all cheering) - Guards! (rumbling) Guards, guards, guards! Help! - Come! Are you Jeremiah? - Yes. - I am Nebuzaradan, Captain of the Guard of Babylon. - How do you know me? - Every Babylonian My king, Nebuchadnezzar, has - Free? (speaking foreign language) (dramatic orchestral music) (dramatic orchestral music) (dog barking) The Temple shall be rebuilt and next time, it shall also (dramatic orchestral music)