-I was wondering If you go on the Internet you ever see a meme of yourself and you go like, -I have. I think, like, maybe, but nothing that I can -I thought you -- -I thought it would be funny just so you could see. -Yeah. Please. -They're funny. -Yeah, I feel like I should -- -Yeah. Here you go, yeah. Tell me you like them or not. This guy here is -- -This is Harry Pugger. We're starting off, -I mean that's -- That's great. -Solid pun, cute dog, -It's great. -If you're having I'll feel bad for you, son. I got 99 problems, [ Cheers and laughter ] That's a good one. -That's what -- You know, what's cool like, I never, as a kid, and you're just insecure I never felt cool at any point and sort of these things go People thought that -Of course, it was cool. [ Cheers and applause ] Very cool. This one is one of my favorites. It says, &quot;Ron, hold on! [ Laughter and applause ] Ron, hold up. -That was -- -That was the actually -...I, the actor, was thinking. Yeah, absolutely. And this one here is... &quot;Thinking about wondering if your wizardry [ Laughter ] -You know what that -Is that you in deep thought? That's me, like, years ago, realizing that there was and being like, &quot;Ugh. Like, what do I do?&quot; Yeah, that's -My last one I want to show you and this was just everywhere It's called &quot;Hermione Dancing.&quot; I think this was at But check this out. - Here we go [ Cheers and applause ] -I mean... -That is great. -I don't -- that -- We need to remake the films -We need more of that. -Pal, I'm excited to see you &quot;The Lifespan of a Fact.&quot; -Yeah. Why don't you tell us -Yeah. So, as you can see, it's myself, Bobby Cannavale, We play -- Well, I play a fact checker written by an author, And this author is not used journalistic standards of accuracy. So he's kind of -- I just go in and make his life And Cherry's character who kind of has to, whether or not to publish and sort of keep us But it's a comedy. -I should say that as well. -And the other thing I will say, because it will get me is it's one act [ Cheers and applause ] -Yeah. -Yeah, no. I'm... -But how are you gonna do this 'Cause Sunday is a big day -Yeah, me and Bobby have 'Cause he's in And we're just -- -Yeah. that's when all the games are, I have two exits in the play. Like, if you come forget that I said this, There's basically, like, at one point in the play. I have, like, five minutes I will have my phone -You'll be checking scores? I'll be coming out, saying -- You'll be like... &quot;Awesome! Oh, my God.&quot; It will be like, There will be stuff But no, it's -- I won't lie -- Do you ever do a play and get distracted and you forget a cue -I'm pretty -- Like, the fear of screwing up But I've definitely had -- When you're in a bigger show and there's, like, you can kind of drift off and Well, 'cause you can't really But there will occasionally that really grab your attention. -Really? My favorite guy was a guy -- but I did &quot;Rosencrantz and last year in London. It's like -- It's, you know, sort -- -It's fun, but it's complex. And this guy just, like, came into the first act, My scene partner, Josh, so I was just able to watch sit down with his rucksack rummage around in it produce a foot-long [ Laughter ] ...proceed to unwrap So, like, the first two scenes, -He's eating a giant hot dog. And then, like, put the stuff away [ Laughter and applause ] -Totally worth the ticket price. He came back for the second act and seemed to have a great time. He got up and stood at the end -Standing ovation? He's like, &quot;I'm coming back. -&quot;Yeah, I got food.&quot; -Yeah, it was -- -No, it was -- Normally, you can like -- You can end up getting with guys like that but actually, that time, -&quot;I love this guy.&quot; [ Laughter ] -You don't care at all -No, not all. This one, you don't have time Congrats on this. &quot;The Lifespan of a Fact.&quot; Daniel Radcliffe, everybody.