[Music] The Half-Life universe is full of terrifying Planet Earth came across a new species control the humans they met. Which, Where did these parasites come from? How were their hold-over planet Earth, and how did the Here, we explore in the lore and story behind Far away from Planet Earth, the homeworld to the borderworld of Xen. A place between some of this species traversed across and However, this connection was limited Nothing was native to Xen. All plant just like the Gonarch had. This was a unique formed from travellers across dimensions. the Gonarch, a large, powerful creature on four gave birth to countless tiny Headcrabs just begun their first life stage, and the final stage. This of course depended on their As the creator of these many children, the Gonarch came near it and attacked on sight with a charge, The children, dubbed Headcrabs by humanity, were grew to the size of a pumpkin. Around On Earth, the Black Mesa Research facility experimented with teleportation technology. to explore the islands, and constructed labs to Within the Advanced Biological Research Lab interest in the Headcrab. Here, just like the Black Mesa personnel attempted to understand was a particularly interesting specimen but the scientists did notice that they "heavy anything around them that looked even vaguely these creatures were very dangerous. analysis that the Headcrab were capable of and although they were small, their short legs great distance of an average of 10 feet at a jumps at this point were guided by 6 eyes that below each of their front legs. Black Mesa didn't the original lore friendly model from Half-Life. the Headcrab's most impressive, or should gaping mouth that allowed the creatures to target. Inside their mouth, the scientists allowed them to take in nutrients, and it even On Xen, the Survey Teams also observed where the ecosystem. They were placed near the bottom as kept them in cages and roasted them on an open Bullsquid seemingly had a natural disdain for The analysis of this species had given Black but there was just one more feature the Headcrab The exploration of Xen gave Black Mesa a greater unfortunately, this mission also came with and casualties happened from time to hard way what happened when the Headcrab If a Headcrab were to make a successful leap, mouth to firmly fix itself into position. to push the creature off. Ready for the next break through the skull to gain access to the With exposure to the human brain, the and took over their basic motor functions human body. They were the perfect parasite. and Headcrab, the human's biology changed. watched as the hosts' flesh deteriorated as fingers grew out into sharp claws. However, interact with the environment around them. Even their connection to the parasite. In some cases, slight biological changes the Headcrab had made as This transformation process was noted to take depending on the host and the will of was that the host was kept alive and conscious ounce of pain. Desperate for escape. most of their body, the hosts were as a result of the Headcrab's influence, their This process had a harrowing effect on the a host could survive if the Headcrab was removed. We could speculate that it would depend on how removed. The further along, the less likely. Headcrab combination labelled as "The Zombie", zombies matured, some grew stronger, their claws and their bodies adapted to the biological variation was labelled the Gonome. the Headcrab Zombies became instantly hostile As they wandered around, they did not appear It was later noted that even when they came various other dangers of the world, the Zombies parasites appeared to be unfazed by the damage for the humans who screamed in pain and begged for so much and were still, very much, conscious. and host appeared to be a perfect match even discovery of Xen. This suggested that while their world did have a process very similar to more of humanity would soon become aware of the In the early 2000s, the Black Mesa Research very wrong, which led to a Resonance Cascade. in space between Earth and Xen, and as a result, A leader of Xen, the Nihilanth, also sent through its forces to conquer this the Headcrabs once again had to learn personnel as they attempted to escape this With so many headcrab scattered across it did not take long for them to find hosts Headcrab Zombies, each human in excruciating To the luck of these humans, the next day, a figure, activated a thermonuclear device and Mesa Research Facility was purged of all life. their scientists, Dr. Gordon Freeman, managed and closed the rift between Earth and Xen. the Headcrabs that had been pulled through home and were here to stay. Along with the other humanity as this was their new home. In humanity's invaded the Planet and successfully accepted Over the following years, The Combine adapted They created settlements to hold the humans, and them outside of these safe havens. During this and as opposing forces, they worked One of the leaders of The Resistance, Dr. Isaac domesticate it by removing its beak. This the heads of the humans she interacted Over a decade after the Combine's invasion Resistance scientists noticed a change in once used to target a foe simply disappeared. between games to make the Headcrabs appear more change to adapt to their new environment on planet other methods to navigate the wasteland. period was that the population of the planet and there were three potential reasons as to they had just not been discovered yet. The of their new environment. And the third, they The Resistance discovered a sub-species of large amounts of damage and ammunition. this variation appeared to have been preyed this floral parasitic growth had managed to it. This allowed the growth to spread its seeds and in return, provided the Headcrab with it. This was a mutually beneficial relationship. applied to the top of the Headcrab and still left standard Headcrab. If this Headcrab were able to way to the standard, The Resistance just found The Lightning Dog, also known as Revivers or her time in the Quarantine Zone. These creatures their size and ability to manipulate the human or another sub-species of the Headcrab. These had connected by a thin sheet of issue. This allowed a host when under attack. It should be noted Alyx game files is also npc_Headcrab_runner. manipulate electrical currents, which in around them and they even fired electrical the Lightning Dog could injure those around it, human. The lighting dog's behaviour was similar to The Lighting Dog was only shown to be able and instead of taking control through into their chest cavity to revive their host. lot more damage than their other variations. On much damage their hosts could withstand, and if host and looked for another one. To fight back, bursts of electricity to wound their attacker, and enemies when cornered in an attempt to escape. orb. These orbs were also noted to be compatible that the Combine either designed some of their it was a coincidence, or The Combine had Interestingly enough, it should be noted Dog were not spotted in City 17, or the wasteland they either died out, evolved into something Although not a zombie created as a combination through the Quarantine Zone of City 17, Alyx Jeff was a zombie that had had a similar the parasitic Xenian flora had managed to infect it adapted this Hazmat worker's biology a large mouth with sharp teeth. As his fingers grew out similar to a Headcrab zombie the parasite that controlled Without eyes, he grew to rely on his excellent attacked anything that came into contact with him, As a symbiote of human and Xenian flora, Jeff spread them across the Distillery. Jeff is the only known unfortunate human Approximately 20 years after The The Resistance frequently came across 3 Fast and poison. The Armoured and Lightning The Fast variant was once again very similar it was much faster. The Resistance could tell were slimmer, smoother and had much longer legs the quick identification of the subspecies of also appeared to be more intelligent than the of their longer legs, they held onto surfaces gave them an advantage as they simply waited for their head and began the process to take over. maximise their efforts to injure or attach these Headcrabs dramatically adjusted the biology This change left the host only with their allowed them to move extremely quickly as they howled to alert others of prey. Once again, these take down their prey with their claws. All of The final known subspecies discovered was perceived as the most dangerous by far as it used into its prey. These were identified by The and coloured markings - similar to that of The Resistance had to rely on antidotes to counter to be the slowest of all Headcrab variants and when it spotted a victim. This essentially gave warning to leave before they were attacked. intelligent of the Headcrab species and aware of the dangers of the natural elements, and if necessary, retreated in order to survive. did just what the others did. Became one slightly different. Their host swelled up and feed on as they wandered around in pain. the Headcrabs would leave the host to poison host to finish off the attack, that was as another host. Although the poison zombie The Resistance theorised that these hosts were inside to create more poison headcrabs. This attached to the host. But that is just one As the Resistance grew stronger and recruited had to become more creative in how they dealt analyse the uses of the Xenian creatures the resonance cascade, they used the Headcrab This shell was essentially a hollow projectile could send off to Resistance Bases to take them it landed inside of enemy lines, the payload The Headcrab shell initiative was responsible bases along the underground railroad, of Ravenholm. Once a strong resistance base, The thought of using these small creatures in able to take out Resistance Bases with little like this was still dangerous for them. control of City 17, some of their human police to their own biological weapons. These Headcrab as &quot;Zombines&quot;. Modified Combine humans under pleas for help, those around only heard the Born from a Gonarch, the Headcrab came from landed on Earth and attempted to live. Although of the planet, which was made worse after The Headcrab went through many variations. and Poison. The Armoured was a result of were likely created by The Combine to control what are the chances that evolution created even The Headcrab had two potential paths to go down eventually turned into a Gonarch to bring more and live out the rest of their days as a Zombie. humanoid species, were never shown to fall prey they were not compatible, or the Vortigaunt were there are still many questions that plague create the new variants? Can all of them grow into homeworld that they used as hosts. The Headcrab universe is still full of mystery. Maybe one day Welcome back everyone. I took a week away to and it feels good to be back writing and putting holiday! The Headcrab was the first Half-Life lore so much information I did not include. I wanted each variant, how they came to be that way, and The zombies just came as a part of that - and you Also, I have said the word &quot;Headcrab&quot; so many a real word. The Headcrabs are an iconic part This is going to be a big year for the up with amazing topics to cover. I have taken too. I will still be covering Half-Life every 2 between. We have Quake, Wolfenstein, Doom, I'll also pop in some Portal too. Maybe some of some Half-Life 2 Beta content. thank you so much for watching. I do appreciate so please share it, please like it. Subscribe if comment for the algorithm, it would help a lot! and channel members, Jonas, Lewis, QueenArby, Mosvelit and Larze-Loal. If you want to help the description to become a patron where I early access to videos and many other you so much for the continued support! version of the Headcrab did you would you like me to cover first? This is where our story ends.