Mosul, July 2014. Three years later, the city is nothing but ruins. the Islamic State which until then ruled Syria and Iraq no longer exists. Its leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, remains nowhere to be found. Today, no one is claiming victory. The eradication of the Islamic State does not mark the total end of Daesh. We no longer have territorial establishments, but we are still alive. We are always here. We still have the capacity to cause harm. So we're going to have to pay for it one way or another. This capacity to cause harm. In 2017, 4,612 attacks were claimed by Daesh around the world. An increase of 9% compared to the previous year. These attacks are also becoming less and less expensive. As of 2016, the one in Nice, France, did not exceed EUR2,500, took the lives of 86 people and injured 458 others. Criminals, organized or not, as well as terrorists tend to be more and more agile and more and more reactive. They therefore tend to exploit the weaknesses of the system. Therefore, governments around the world and key authorities need to adapt more quickly. However, the reality is quite different. Today, Daesh no longer has a state, but the terrorist organization still attracts volunteers to wage its holy war. They have benefited from political complicity and financial support for years . How did it start? Why does this continue? This former head of Syrian intelligence, now in exile, is categorical. Without the support of one man in particular, the terrorists would not have been able to thrive on Syrian territory. The man he names is called Bashar al-Assad. Those who created Daesh are those who have an interest in its existence. Today, Bashar has an interest in existing in Syria rather than Daesh. Daesh works in the interest of everyone in Syria. This financial link between Bashar al-Assad and terrorist groups began with the entry into war in Iraq of a determined and vindictive America. President George Bush then found an ideal culprit Saddam Hussein, the Iraqi president who, according to the United States, supports Bin Laden and Al-Qaeda terrorists. In April 2003, American troops invaded Iraq. The fall of Baghdad seals the end of Saddam Hussein's regime. George Bush thinks he has won a first battle But history will be written differently. No al-Qaeda ally has been defeated on Iraqi soil. But an ally of Al-Qaeda did emerge in 2003, against a backdrop of anti-American rebellion. The United States had this set of cards representing the list of people they wanted to arrest. This is the mission of counterterrorism. If we arrest all these people, Saddam's supporters, we will have solved the problem. Which didn't turn out to be exactly right. Keep in mind that the matter has been resolved. We found ourselves confronted with the problem of Al Qaeda which paradoxically ended up proving the Americans right by showing that Iraq was a hotbed of Al-Qaeda, when in reality it was only because we had overthrew Saddam who had successfully suppressed Al-Qaeda in Mesopotamia. When Saddam Hussein fell, the Jordanian Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, trained in Afghanistan, took the lead in the anti-American insurgency and claimed to be the Iraqi branch of Al-Qaeda. For the Iraqis, he was initially a resistance fighter. From 2003, Zarqawi obtained logistical support from Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. When Zarqawi began operating in Iraq. An agreement was made with him; they had made an agreement to facilitate the entry into Iraq of fighters and weapons from Syria . It was clear. By reinforcing the jihadist attacks carried out by Zarqawi against American forces, Bashar al-Assad wanted to confine the conflict to Iraqi soil. Bashar's regime tried in all districts to create jihadist groups which it sent to fight alongside Zarqawi in Iraq. This became more than evident when Assad allowed Damascus to serve as a hub for foreign fighters. Bashar al-Assad allowed foreign Islamist terrorists to pass through Damascus and Aleppo. He could then cross the border to carry out suicide attacks He could then cross the border to carry out suicide attacks He could then cross the border to carry out suicide attacks against US and allied forces. As a political security organ, we tried to prevent these movements. But we have received orders from our superiors not to interfere in the matter and to let it happen. Terror sets in. Violence has reached its peak in Iraq and Al-Qaeda is growing under the leadership of the new number one enemy of the United States, Zarqawi. After 2003, when Al-Qaeda became the most influential terrorist group in Iraq, the scope of operations expanded and the quality of operations changed. Terrorist actions have become permanent before, Al-Qaeda carried out two or three operations per year. After 2003, we witnessed two or three operations per week, if not per day. To continue and accentuate his jihad, Zarqawi is looking for new sources of financing. Zarqawi understood that he could not survive, that the organization could not develop if he relied solely on the base of Al-Qaeda and its hierarchy to finance its operations. The group had to learn to better manage their finances and develop their own economy. To finance himself, Zarqawi had two sources: 20% came from Al Qaeda money and 80% was self-financing. All this to the tune of EUR580,000 per month, Zarqaoui essentially financed himself with kidnappings of politicians, businessmen, journalists, construction company directors, as well as through taxes he imposed on residents and traders. An industrialist from Mosul experimented with this modus operandi used by Al-Qaeda. He ran a steel mill. The threats were direct. They arrived by mail containing a bullet. Mail that was left near the home of the targeted person. If that person didn't pay or was reluctant to pay, they were kidnapped. She or one of her children. Negotiations then began on the amounts to be paid, ranging from $30,000 to $100,000 depending on the agreement and the fortune of the person concerned. As far as I'm concerned, I expected this to happen at the beginning of 2004. So I decided to close the company, to lower the curtain so as not to suffer the same thing as many industrialists and large traders in Mosul. Despite all this, and despite the closure of the company, we were not spared. They once asked me to pay and we agreed on $10,000. These mafia-type rackets grew with the arrival of aid intended for reconstruction. 55 billion dollars from around the world from 2004 to put Iraq back on its feet. Half of this money disappeared in frauds that allowed many American companies to enrich themselves. But Zarqawi and Al-Qaeda also benefited from the dollars generated by reconstruction projects. Each project was scrutinized by Al-Qaeda. He documented all the companies point by point. the Terrorist Organization was studying the company's capital. Its benefits? The means of approaching the business manager, his address, his telephone number. The way to approach your family. It wasn't really complicated for them. the Organization first threatened the business manager, then extorted money from him or offered to ensure his security. When racketeering proved impossible. Al-Qaeda attacked the project, looted construction equipment or engaged in terrorist operations. Oil was added to these extortions as a source of financing. At first, Al-Qaeda recovered the money accumulated under Saddam Hussein. And has made some of the oil money since the embargo established by the United Nations in 1990. Most of Iraq's oil was sold to Syria and Turkey via pipelines. This Iraqi oil sold to Syria and Turkey was paid like this. 60% in Turkish and Syrian goods which were simple consumer products and industrial goods, and 40% in cash. This cash money was placed in Lebanese banks in fictitious accounts. I remember that the money was collected at precisely 12 p.m., before being transferred to several accounts opened under assumed names. Then the Iraqi government would send its men to bring this cash in bags. I remember it perfectly at the beginning, it was in dollars, then in euros. And when there were no longer enough euros, it was gold. All of this was transported via embassies in Syria and Lebanon and placed in the central bank. This money was not included in the reserves of the Iraqi Central Bank, but in the reserves of what was then called the presidential office. After the fall of Saddam Hussein, veterans of the Iraqi regime joined Al-Qaeda. They appropriated part of the millions of dollars stored in the coffers of the central bank. The capital monopolized by Saddam was distributed by men benefiting from the confidence of the regime. After the fall of the regime, these men, who then had large sums of money, withdrew from political life and used this money for personal purposes. But a large number of intelligence and security agents retained control over this important treasury after the fall of the regime. They later used it to finance what was later called the resistance. In reality, the majority of these funds essentially constituted the financial basis of terrorist operations. Then Al-Qaeda continued to steal oil money, as Saddam Hussein had done, but differently. Exports no longer took place via official means such as pipelines, but became shadow traffic. Al-Qaeda completely controlled the Iraqi black market where oil was sold, as well as smuggling operations across Iraqi borders. the organization thus acquired astronomical sums which financed terrorism not only in Iraq but also in other countries. Al-Qaeda did not produce the oil, but the organization controlled the tanks that came out of the Baiji refinery. When taxes were not paid, these tanks were hijacked or their drivers kidnapped. For example, before every three days. 350 tanks were intended for Mosul, but only 50 arrived. Nobody knew where the other 300 tanks had been diverted. A final source of funding allowed Al Qaeda to flourish during this era. Money from Gulf countries. Saddam Hussein already benefited from this when Iraq and the Gulf countries aimed to crush the Shiite Iranians. The people who financed Saddam Hussein before 2003 are the same people who financed terrorism after 2003. The sources are known, Gulf Cooperation Council countries . Gulf businessmen, civil society associations from Gulf countries, Gulf religious institutions, mosques, or even sometimes government structures. There is even evidence that demonstrates the involvement of the intelligence services of the Gulf Cooperation Council countries. Problem: The Gulf countries, wanting to help the Sunnis in their fight against the Iranian Shiites, participated in the strengthening of Al-Qaeda. Since the money also arrived in the coffers of the most extremist, namely the terrorists led by Zarqawi. The problem is that the Saudis and Qataris are financing Wahabism and Salafist extremists to conquer the Sunni majority in the war against Tehran. It is no longer a fight against the demonized West. Rather, it is a crusade against the disbelievers in Tehran. And our blindness has allowed the Saudis and Qataris to continue to finance the extremists, the very people we are fighting. They are playing a double game, which is nothing new. However, the West refuses to understand this, refuses to tell the Saudis and the Qataris that we are not going to wage a war that you, as we intend to wage against terrorism, while at the same time, you finance these same terrorists who kill our soldiers. Gulf money, oil, racketeering. From 2003, Al-Qaeda's actions prospered. Post-September 11 attacks are increasing and affecting Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Morocco, Turkey, Afghanistan and especially Iraq. where car bomb explosions are Zarqawi's new modus operandi. In 2004, Al-Qaeda marked its return to the West. Madrid is affected. In 2005, it was London's turn. But this jihad exhausts the Iraqi population, which turns out to be the most affected by the violence, in particular the Shiites. Zarqaoui's image is tarnished. The man who seemed to embody resistance to the American oppressor now appears only as a bloodthirsty executioner. In 2006, a new attack triggered the first Iraqi civil war. That of the Al-Askari sanctuary in Samarra, a mecca of Iraqi Shiism. The Shiite Prime Minister al-Maliki, newly appointed head of government, then tried to regain control of one of Al-Qaeda's main sources of financing, oil. To protect Baiji, the country's largest refinery, in 2007 he even created a sort of oil police. This unit was made up of 1,500 armed men responsible for securing the Baiji refinery and preventing Al-Qaeda from taking over it. from 2007, and until 2009, the financing of Al-Qaeda via the hijacking of tanks leaving from Baiji became increasingly difficult. Al-Qaeda's funding has therefore weakened considerably in these regions. Al-Qaeda then invented another method of oil trafficking by building fictitious service stations. These numerous fictitious gas stations then constituted a new method of financing for Al-Qaeda. because these stations unfortunately received a large part of the production from the Baiji refinery, which disappeared under the notice of the security forces. These gas stations were not accessible to the population and all the production that reached these stations was intended for Al-Qaeda. Despite this, the year 2007 constitutes a turning point in the history of Al-Qaeda. Not only does the terrorist organization no longer get its hands on oil as easily, but above all, American forces will kill eleven of the 20 most wanted people in the network. They also neutralize most of the middle leaders They have decimated. Al-Qaeda at 95%. There is practically nothing left of Al-Qaeda. Historical channel so to speak, apart from a flag and a capacity for mobilization and an aura. But operationally, nothing remains. Al-Qaeda is dead. Dead, Not quite. There are survivors and above all an ideology left after a period of sleep. Al-Qaeda will reemerge under the guise of different terrorist factions. The best known is called Daesh and its leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, challenged the world by creating a caliphate in 2014. This proto-State sowed terror for more than three years and seized, with the capture of Mosul, a colossal war chest . ISIS took control of almost 120 branches of government and private banks, as well as funds from the Mosul central bank. He was able to accumulate more than a billion dollars Add to that the theft of residents' money. I think ISIS was able to accumulate $2 billion in Iraq. When ISIS emerges, the terrorist group gains opportunistic support from Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Like a sense of deja vu. During the time of Zarqawi and Al-Qaeda In 2011, in line with the Arab revolutions, the Syrian people revolted against Bashar el Assad. This opposition is rather pacifist, but it hardly pleases the Syrian president. Bashar al-Assad then frees from prison the terrorists he himself had sent to Iraq alongside Zarqawi and who had returned to Syria after the debacle of Al-Qaeda. These Islamists imprisoned for terrorism in Syrian jails, like that of Saidnaya, will be used a second time by Bashar al-Assad. Saidnaya is a prison near Damascus. The Islamists detained there were subjected to constant blackmail. Syrian security organs have reached agreements with them to establish a common plan. Large numbers of Islamists have been recruited for operations sponsored by the Syrian regime. The Islamists who were then detained in Saidnaya are today largely at the head of the small armed groups fighting in Syria. Bashar al-Assad's motivation is to equate the 2011 demonstrators with head-cutters and thus hamper Western leaders in their analysis of the field. These strategies give it an opportunistic role. He would be the only one who could face the terrorists. The majority of them operate on the instructions of Bashar al-Assad , so that the revolution is assimilated to a terrorist movement. That it attracts the hostility of the international community, thus allowing Bashar to maintain his position and realize his political ambitions. From there, an agreement on the sharing of territory would have taken place between Syria and Daesh. Thus, cities like Raqqa or Palmyra will be sacrificed. Palmyra, in Arabic Tadmor, is known for its archaeological sites. This location is therefore strategic so that Bashar al-Assad can continue to financially help terrorists. This is the theory of the former head of Syrian intelligence. Tadmor plays a very important role in supplying Daesh with weapons by the regime. This is Tadmor's secret. This supply of arms would have taken place during the two captures of Palmyra by Daesh in 2015, then again in 2016. One of the Tadmor judges spoke to me about the relations between the Bashar regime and Daesh. The regime transports weapons to a specific location, then informs ISIS. A mock battle then takes place at the end of which Daesh seizes weapons after supposedly liberating the region from the forces of Bashar's regime. In reality Daesh and the regime are in cahoots. The presence of Daesh in Tadmor is part of a strategy allowing Bashar al-Assad to supply Daesh with weapons and money. Still with the idea of helping the financing of Daesh, the regime of Bashar al-Assad is also said to have turned a blind eye to the seizure of Syria's oil and gas zones by terrorists. Bashar would prefer to see these areas in the hands of Daesh, rather than in the hands of the Free Syrian Army, created during the people's revolution in 2011. When Daesh appeared in Syria. The first thing they did was take the battle to the east of the country. Where the Free Syrian Army was located which protected the oil. Then Daesh took over the wells, exploited them and supplied the regime. The Syrian regime ceded oil wells in the east to ISIS in order to finance the activities of terrorists. It's crystal clear. When Daesh was at its peak in 2015 and 2016 and it experienced a certain security stability, its financial capacities were then based on the exploitation of oil and the sale of its derivatives. Oil was thus sold outside the borders via intermediaries, in Turkey in particular, but also in Syria, to the regime of Bashar al-Assad. We can say that half of Daesh's budget came from the exploitation and sale of oil in all its forms. At the peak of its exploitation, oil brought in around 1.5 million dollars per day for Daesh. The traffic in Iraqi and Syrian oil has benefited all the countries in the region: Lebanon, Jordan, local Iraqi traders, Turkey, Iran. Everyone benefited from this oil trafficking. If Daesh has enriched itself thanks to the lack of scruples of its neighboring countries, the Islamic State has also relied on its connections which sometimes take place in times of war. Lafarge, the world leader in cement, is an example. This French flagship, created in the 19th century, has today become a Franco-Swiss company listed on the CAC 40, and remained in Syria until 2014. Transactions worth 13 million euros reportedly took place between this multinational, intermediaries and terrorist factions like Daesh. The affair begins after the first revelations from the Syrian news site Zaman Alwasl and the French daily Le Monde. Sherpa, an NGO which defends victims of economic crimes, filed a criminal complaint a few months later, in November 2016 . Sherpa filed a complaint on November 15 against Lafarge for, among other things, financing terrorism, complicity in war crimes against humanity and deliberately endangering others. Endangering employees. This is a great first since it is the first time that associations have filed a complaint against a multinational on its grounds, in particular the financing of terrorism and the financing of Daesh. Then, it is mainly internal investigations carried out at the request of Lafarge which will lead the cement manufacturer to recognize the facts. Here are the facts. In 2007, Lafarge bought a cement plant in Syria which, after renovation, would become one of the largest factories in the Middle East. When the country descended into civil war after 2011, Lafarge would not have wanted to abandon such an investment and such a source of profits. The other French companies that were present in Syria have left. In 2012, like Total and Lebel, when the conflict began to radicalize. We therefore wonder why Lafarge stayed. We see no other explanation than economic explanations. And indeed, cement. The price of cement had exploded in the context of the armed crisis. Furthermore, we know that until 2014, until the end of Lafarge's presence in Syria, Lafarge distributed bonuses to its employees. So really continue to make a profit. So we don't see any other explanations than this economic explanation. However, according to a former security director, Lafarge could not ignore that by remaining in Syria, the company would be extorted and forced to negotiate with Islamist groups. It is the management of Paris which bears the main responsibility. They were fully aware of what was happening on the ground. In retrospect, the red line was crossed during 2013 because at the time, we could not continue to operate without having a direct or indirect link with terrorist groups. So I thought the Paris team would now tell us we have to stop. To continue running his factory despite the dangers of racketeering. Lafarge decides to pay intermediaries who will be responsible for negotiating with the jihadist factions. Among them, Firas Tlass, the son of a former defense minister of the Assads, father and son. These intermediaries allowed Lafarge to buy oil and raw materials to supply the cement plant. How the company could have transferred money to regions at war. The only solution was to find intermediaries, shell companies or big business leaders who were in safer regions, who cashed in Lafarge's money for oil, cement or something else. Whatever the means used, the front companies, the intermediaries, the executives who profited from it. Without mentioning any names, everything happened with the guarantee of the Lafarge company, which was aware of everything. The intermediaries also negotiated rights of passage for employees so that they could go to the factory. These Syrian employees claim to have been forced, despite the risks. While the expatriates had been repatriated since 2012. The Syrian employees were forced. In any case, that's the word they use, to come to work at the factory every day. This simple measure, the simple fact of maintaining activity with employees, of asking them to come on site, posed a great risk to employees. Lafarge threatened not to pay what it owed us if we stopped working. And given the circumstances at the time, we chose to keep our jobs in order to survive. Unfortunately. They took advantage of our wartime condition. We were in need and Lafarge took advantage of our precariousness. on September 19, 2014. The worst could have happened that day, Daesh attacked the factory, as shown in its propaganda images filmed by the terrorist organization. A few hours earlier, 25 Syrian employees were still working inside. Lafarge had ordered them not to flee and to take refuge in tunnels. Around 10 p.m., we started hearing noise very close to the factory. We couldn't sleep at all. For my part, all I could think about was running away from the factory. I really felt the danger at that moment. Then, around 2 a.m., the director in charge of the factory tried to flee in his car. It was the only car that Lafarge had left available on site. I called him to ask him where he was going. He replied, I'll be back early in the morning. But I understood that he would never come back. I went to see my colleagues to tell them that the director had fled while we were alone in the factory and that we could have our throats cut by Daesh in the morning. We fled at 4 a.m. and headed towards the border. Of the 13 million euros disbursed to maintain the activity of the factory in Syria. Around EUR500,000 would have gone into Daesh coffers. Since December 2017, six senior executives have been indicted, including Bruno Lafont, the former CEO of Lafarge, and Bruno Pescheux, the former director of the cement plant in Syria until June 2014. By the voice of his lawyer, Bruno Pescheux recognizes that the cement factory responded favorably to the racket. He claims that Lafarge management was aware and that it was up to the group and not the plant director to make the decision to close the cement plant. Bruno Pescheux also believes that he has always protected Syrian employees as best as possible. For its part, Lafarge says it regrets and condemns with the greatest firmness the unacceptable errors committed in Syria. In the Lafarge affair, individuals will have to answer before the courts. But what happens when these complicit links are established by States? In Turkey, for example, the purchase of oil from the Islamic State was not the only dirty game operated by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Because in Turkey, we must not forget one essential fact: terrorists are not jihadists. The terrorists, in the eyes of the Turkish authorities, are above all the Kurds. To understand why Turkey does not consider Daesh its number one enemy, we must go back to the end of the 2000s. Recep Tayyip Erdogan then considered Bashar al-Assad as an ally. Political and commercial agreements. The two countries are very close. Everything changed during the Syrian revolution in 2011, when Bashar al-Assad stubbornly refused the reforms his people demanded. Erdogan opposes his former Syrian friend and decides to help the Sunni opposition. The problem is that Erdogan makes no distinction between the different opposition groups. He supports the Free Syrian Army, described as moderate, as much as groups like al-Nusra, close to Al-Qaeda, without taking into account the advance on the ground of Daesh. When ISIS began to control the main roads on the border and inside Syria. ISIS becomes the main beneficiary of most Turkish aid. And this for two reasons. The first is that Daesh, which was also fighting against groups opposing Bashar al-Assad, ended up seizing all the weapons and logistical support provided to its opposition groups. The second reason is that Daesh established a strong logistical base in southern Turkey, from which Daesh could easily conduct operations. They thus acquired everything he needed from factory suppliers or even Turkish sellers. Then repatriated all of this to their territories without any problem. The story of the MIT trucks shows all the ambiguity of the Turkish regime towards Islamist groups based in Syria. MIT and the name of the Turkish intelligence services , services under the influence of Erdogan. In May 2015, journalists from Cumhuriyet, a newspaper rather critical of the government, published photos and a video showing that these trucks bound for Syria contained weapons hidden under boxes of medicine. These images date from early 2014. Journalists and opposition parties alike. This simple question then arises. Who were these weapons intended for? At that time, the government insisted that there was clearly no arms being sent to Syria. However, when the question was raised again by the opposition, I remember very well that President Erdogan said if I sent some, I sent some. So what ? Mind your own business ? The recipients of the MIT trucks will never be known. On the other hand, this information highlights Erdogan's laxity towards jihadists. When I was head of counterterrorism, then head of the public order department, the orders were very explicit. Recep Erdogan and his ministers ordered the governor of the city not to stop any of these opposition groups against Bashar al-Assad. and even to assist them, for example. As you all know, almost 30,000 terrorists from Europe and other foreign countries have joined Daesh. And many of them joined ISIS via Turkey. They first reached Turkey, then Syria. The main route passed through Sanliurfa. Several of these foreign fighters joined Daesh via Sanliurfa, Gaziantep, Kilis and Hakkari. The governors of these cities openly ordered the police chief and police forces on the ground not to stop the flow of foreign fighters. The orders were very explicit. A Turkish affair definitively devitalized. Counterterrorism services. This case is linked to another enemy of Erdogan named Fetullah Gulen, his former ally who became one of his main opponents, now in exile. Counterterrorism services are suspected of having links with Fetullah Gulen's movement. Erdogan will simply purge them. In 2015 and 2016. A wave of attacks targeted Turkey, some of which were attributed to Daesh. The Turkish authorities are facing their own ambiguities. As their American partner will be sure to remind them. In July 2017, someone close to the White House criticized Ankara. The strategy of some of our partners, which consisted of sending tens of thousands of weapons for years and allowing foreign fighters to pass into Syria, was not the best approach. This is obviously a subject that must be discussed closely with the Turks. In January 2018, the Turkish Army attacked Kurdish strongholds located in the Afrin region, in the northwest of Syria, a region close to the border. However, in its fight against its long-standing enemy, Turkey is once again taking the risk of making life easier for jihadists. A group called Hayat Tahrir al-Sham joined forces with Erdogan to fight the Kurds. However, this jihadist group aims to establish an Islamic state governed by Sharia law. Opportunistic alliances that provide a breeding ground for terrorists in war zones. But not only. The supporters of this ideology have relays all over the world and their actions are increasingly difficult to identify. Using a truck, a handgun, a knife, they kill with disconcerting ease and outrun the authorities of the targeted countries. What we discovered was that it was possible to do extremely bad things with very little money and therefore it was necessary to fight terrorism. Also tackling small movements of money and small movements of money were not movements of money in cash which were often not only in cash. Often movements of dematerialized money. So, we had to fight against this dematerialized form of terrorist financing. This dematerialized form refers in particular to prepaid cards, a tool put into service in 2012 to make life easier for households who cannot afford a bank credit card. These prepaid cards are those used by the terrorists of November 13 in Paris, because they preserve anonymity. In Bercy, Michel Sapin, then Minister of Economy and Finance, took action on these small financial transactions. The difficulty of combating all illicit financing, in this case financing terrorism means being sufficiently effective without depriving everyone of tools that are useful in daily life. I take the prepaid card. A prepaid card can be useful. You have a child who is going to summer camp or who is going with their class for a week abroad. However, it is not easy to make transfers. We don't prefer them to leave with the liquid. We give him a prepaid card or I don't know what. For Christmas, you give your grandchildren a gift with a prepaid card and there is no harm, no harm. Simply, we must have rules in place, in particular not allowing anonymity. And so the grandmother who is going to buy a card for her grandson, we know that she is the one who buys the prepaid card and she knows what the amount is. Then he uses it. So it's a real difficulty. This is because we must not deprive people of modernity, of new technology, of simplicity in daily life. In the name of the fight against the financing of terrorism, we must put in place rules which are rules of transparency, ethical rules, effective rules, but which do not prevent people from living. Is it thanks to the monitoring of these micro financial movements which have increased in recent years? According to the authorities, 416 donors were identified in France in 2016 and 2017 and 20 attacks were foiled in the territory in 2017. But what about this financial struggle outside Europe? The victory against the financing of Daesh in Iraq has not yet been achieved. the alliance of international powers through cooperation between intelligence services could overcome the financing network of this terrorist organization. But today, this organization has many investments, large capital and it remains financially very powerful. According to this expert, Daesh still has the financial resources to ensure its survival for fifteen years. The group is said to have invested between $250 and $500 million in a multitude of Iraqi companies which sometimes work for Daesh. Without knowing. Only flawless international cooperation can curb this globalization of terror. A policy of small steps which has never lived up to its name so well.