- Ladies and gentlemen, (cheers and applause) - Thank you so much. (softly laughing) - Rodney, tell me, is it the truth, don't you really get any respect? - Jackie, I don't get no respect at all. - No? - I mean, I remember when I was a kid we played hide 'n' seek. Well, they wouldn't even look for me. (loudly laughing) I tell you it's the same thing - No? - Well, my friends tell me I should use a certain signal. Let it ring twice, hang (loudly laughing) I tell you, though, Jackie, You look great. I mean, you look thin. - Well, it's really no - Really, no problem at all? Well, tell me, how do you look thin? - Just hang around real (loudly laughing) - He really looks great, you know. But, I'll tell ya, to me, there's something more To me it's underneath That's what's important, not looks. I mean, how many times you you see a tall handsome man, walking arm-in-arm with I never saw that, did you ever see that? I never saw it, you know? I thought I saw that. I mean, looks, don't mean nothin'. I got a niece, an ugly she's happy now, she married an ugly guy. And today they got two very ugly kids. (loudly laughing) In fact they're all so ugly, in their family album, they (loudly laughing) And I tell ya, there's I mean I just broke up (loudly laughing) Yeah, this afternoon for I got suicidal tendencies. He told me from now on I (loudly laughing) I'll tell ya, with me, I just I mean, I flew down here I never get lucky like the seat next me, a pretty girl or something, An old man sat next to me, must have been in his 80s, you know. We had dinner together on the plane. I mean, this guy was old. I asked him to pass me he had to make two trips. (loudly laughing) and I tell ya the whole I mean, I got nervous as soon as the pilot made his first announcement. He asked if the Miami airport was open late on Thursday night. (loudly laughing) I don't know, there's Sometimes I turn to my wife But she's a cold person, I remember the first time (loudly laughing) Yeah, 'cause I wanted to open my eyes. And I know when you kiss you're not supposed to open your eyes. I said to myself, go ahead, don't feel guilty, open So I opened my eyes. She was staring at me. (loudly laughing) I'll tell ya with me, I get Like the last time I got a haircut, my wife told me it was terrible. I said to her, &quot;Why is She said, &quot;Why? &quot;Because it looks like you got a haircut.&quot; Yeah, she says when you get a haircut, it's not supposed to look She said, &quot;Harry got a haircut, &quot;no one even knew that I said, &quot;Then, how do you (loudly laughing) So now I got a new problem, next week I'm due to get a haircut and I don't want it to So what I'm doing now is who don't look like he's a barber. (loudly laughing) (applause) I tell ya, with my wife there's Like the other day, the she gave me the best years of her life. What worries me now is, (loudly laughing) (applause) You know, They say behind every Take a good look at me, will you? (loudly laughing) I mean, can you picture (loudly laughing) I mean, even my own house I mean sometimes I you know, my wife, she hides the bottle. I admit I'm a bad drinker. I'm not nasty or nothin'. But I'll tell ya when I drink, the next day I gotta do two things. I gotta try to locate my car, (laughing) and I gotta bring back the car I took, I'm a bad drinker. (applause) Thank you. It's nice here though, you know, Jackie Gleason Show, they treat ya right. Miami Beach, palm trees, So different than my neighborhood. I live in New York on Rough neighborhood, rough. I'll tell ya, I live in when I plan my budget, I (loudly laughing) It's a rough neighborhood, I'll tell ya, where I live, nobody Last week on my block they (loudly laughing) Yeah, with two cops still in it. (loudly laughing) And a police station's right on my block. Even the cops are afraid. Only police station I know the front door has a peephole in it. (loudly laughing) I'll tell ya this one cop there I saw him the other night, And this cop, he fired into the guy he was warning. (loudly laughing) I'll tell ya the truth, there's one thing in this country I can't figure out. I mean, the streets are unsafe, parks are unsafe, subways are unsafe, but under our arms we (loudly laughing) (applause) (mumbles off mic) You're all right. And I'll tell ya, my kid, you know, and I'll tell ya my kid, he goes to the toughest school in New York. I had to go over there last week, the kid was acting up, you know, I went to see the guidance counselor. They told me he was out, he'll be back in one to three years. (loudly laughing) I'll tell ya, my kid's The kids there, they think 'cause he had a girl in Jersey. (loudly laughing) No, it's a rough school. I look in the graduation book, each kid has two poses, (loudly laughing) And that's where I live, New I live in an older A much older building. I live in the kind of building I never get under it right away. First five minutes I get rust. (loudly laughing) And while I'm takin' a shower, if someone in the building I get burnt. (loudly laughing) Yeah, and I got radiators that whistle. I figured out why they whistle. I mean, heat comes up so seldom, they celebrate, it's a (loudly laughing) (applause) You're all right. (mumbles off mic) And I'll tell ya when things I get no help from the I'm always lookin' for the super. He won't come up. Last week I tried to trick him. I said, &quot;Come on up, He said, &quot;Should I bring somethin'?&quot; I says, &quot;Yeah, a wrench (loudly laughing) And I'll tell ya something else in my neighborhood I don't like, they're always comin' Support different Guy knocked on my door last week, he told me how the Korean And he said if I give just one dollar, then Su Goo, (laughing) and 12 kids, they're gonna And not only gonna have but the kids all get books and pencils. And Su Goo can get a new boat. And they can send four (laughing) And I told him I'd be very if he would show my wife how ya know, I tell ya.