This is Japan's Most Notorious Tuner Turbos Coilovers Pistons and Rods HKS made anything and everything in the name And in the process, went from 2 humble men tuner brands But when making just parts for cars wasn't They set out on a journey to build their own The HKS Zero-R That is, until that plan came to a crashing And HKS had to fight to keep it alive. But to understand why they would even want 2 humble men... Back in 1973, a young Hiroyuki Hasegawa had He was finally going to chase his dreams of Beside him was his close friend Goichi Kitagawa, ways, The one thing they had in common... was that they were broke. So they took startup capital from Sigma Automotive.. A tuning company you might know today as SARD So it was Hasegawa, Kitagawa, and Sigma. HKS. Now, the startup money they got wasn't much In fact, they started out in a small shed of Mt. Fuji, But It was the humble beginning they needed What plans, you may ask? Well, the big one was to create the greatest They called the engine the HKS-74E and well... never happened. HKS ran out of money before they could finish They figured they could earn some money making that manufacturers were too scared to make So in less than a year after they were founded, turbo kit The kit was designed for the C110 skyline, 6 engine And well, the HKS Turbo L20 made 40% more 113hp to 158hp! The performance was impressive to say the kits left and right And less than 5 years later, cars sold all turbocharged engines from the factory, proof that HKS was ahead of the curve when By 1977, they were mass manufacturing turbos kits were better than anything Japan had at But, how, you might be asking, did Hasegawa in the first place?? Well, you can thank the Americans for that! You see, America was on top of the turbo game cars So HKS bought some american made turbos and A little ironic, considering most of HKS turbos But anyways, back in 1981, HKS took these And even though overnight parts from japan expensive So HKS did something that many of their competitors USA to sell in North America. And that was a huge step for them, because their parts catalog Piggyback FCON ecus, Twin Power ignition systems, that made your car better. HKS was now a full blown tuning company, But there was one obvious caveat to the HKS Unlike many of their competitors, they didn't It may sound unimportant, but every big tuner part they made bolted to it, trying to break HKS realized this a bit late, but it was fine, and they knew they could build something badass So in the early 80s, the introduced the HKS And with the full catalog of HKS parts, that Max Speed event, being the first japanese This was a huge achievement, one that gave But along with that recognition, came expectations If HKS was that good at building street cars, And well, HKS agreed, it was time to enter They started with rally and drag racing HKS developed the 134E, an engine that started used in-house HKS parts for everything else. That engine raced under the Ralliart brand which you can learn about by watching our Right under the link to buy our Pluspy and Anyways, by the mid 80s, HKS 'growing catalog up more factories just to keep up. In fact, HKS was selling so many exhausts, that. But before it was HKS carbon titaniums on "Aluminum Muffler&quot;, &quot;Turbo Muffler&quot;, on your preference and car application. But silly names aside, these HKS exhausts out. And if top speed runs and rallying weren't into grip racing, specifically the Grand Champion HKS used this series as an experiment to study Namely, their 186E, a 2L DOHC 4 cylinder engine And once they mastered the intricacies of motorcycles So they then developed the 200E. a 600CC DOHC 2 cylinder motorcycle engine And engine that was so good, that not long paddocks had a 200E Not satisfied yet, they went back to drag Supra A car that broke a long standing obstacle, The supra made 826hp through its 7M engine...in HKS had their hands in absolutely every aspect car on the market, HKS was making it go faster. And the face of JDM Sports cars at the time The R32 was a beast in its own right, the list of championship wins under its belt. It only made sense that HKS would use the more to it than that. Remember how HKS initially set out to build Well, they had built so many fantastic engines So now is was time to the fulfill the second Now it was time to create the ultimate sports The idea was simple, everything they ever and sold to the world - Would be used to tear down a GTR to its bones They called the project, the Zero-R And this car was going to be so special, so based on, That it would be marketed as an HKS manufactured But, that also meant that HKS would need to they would have to crash test a number of And well, crashing cars that you hand built So expensive, that well, just like that very to take a step back from the Zero-R. They did build a few of them, 10 to be precise, enough to get them crash tested So, begrudgingly, they were forced to shelve For now... And HKS was left wondering what they could Zero-R Project back online. The aftermarket parts business was growing And on the motorsports side, they already and grip racing What even was left for them to test their OH RIGHT, FORMULA 1 Yes, In 1992, HKS decided to start developing Screaming V12s that revved to 13,500rpm and HKS was making engines for the pinnacle of Well, kind of. To be totally transparent..HKS didn't see raced.. BUT their engines were fully tested and developed And the R&amp;D that went into that project was across their product lineup. Hell it was even enough for them to compete But if I'm being honest, there was something A race series that was indigenous to Japan, 90s Japanese Touring Car racing! And HKS was involved in every step of it JTC was Japan's top racing series, we did But to compete here and win was to say that And for HKS, well, that was their goal from So they grabbed an R32 Skyline and poured the Group A regulations of course. But those Group A regulations were very strict: had to be the factory delivered parts. And with the grid filled with GTRs, all running HKS didn't have much room for tuning Or did they? HKS was an engine builder after all, they not. So instead of replacing parts, they "tuned" The engine internals were lightened and balanced, even the blades on the turbo were cut to flow Hell, even the oil they used was specially They called it 087 and said it was "like So thin that there was minimal friction, it they ran the engine. This was the magic of HKS, they were the tuners better product than their competitors. And the result? A Green and Orange Godzilla, one with an engine fastest on the grid. Enough horsepower to take first place at Sugo The next year, when they came back to race, a new design It was still Orange and Green, but now with on their 087 oil cans. They called it the oil spill livery, and it with JDM tuning around the world. HKS also built yet another R32 GTR for the And well that GTR won every single series to the drag racing scene. Am I turning into a Nissan fanboi? Absolutely not, get that trash out of your By the mid 90s, HKS was now consistently placing stint was at least a bit worthwhile And also, the HKS livery on a formula car? CMON NOW IT DOESN'T GET COOLER THAN THAT Or maybe it does, because HKS entered the And was in British Formula 3... Oh right and they made an ultralight plane At this point, HKS was leaving their mark All while their products were still flying the globe It was success beyond their wildest dreams, Because in 2000, HKS introduced a new monster, This was a huge stepping stone to proving A racecar, based off the Altezza, but designed in mind, to break records at Tsukuba It was fully built, with every suspension And it may have had the 3SGE that it came part they had at it. The end product was an Altezza that set a and long standing race car records at the They followed up that performance by entering finally adding drifting to their resume And then there was the TRB-02... a fully built another record, only to beat itself out the And from there they built another Altezza, 2nd in the season At this point, HKS might have caught a murder track And as you can imagine, their parts catalog Every 350Z at Tokyo Auto Salon had the new after the Z's release Every MitsuBitsu had to have HKS Hipermax Time Attack in 2006 A car was doing sub 54s at Tsukuba while setting Japan And eventually, all this success culminated nearly 2 decades for. They grew the company, and along with it their Which meant that, enough was enough, it was The automotive regulations in Japan were much they started. Japan no longer required crash testing to And this meant that HKS wouldn't have to spend So they pulled the Zero-Rs out of storage.. All 10 of them to be exact. But only 4 were still worth saving and finishing. And as soon as JDM enthusiasts caught a whiff life, they were lining down the block to buy But there was a problem, the car was too dated They had designed this car nearly 20 years out an old product. Not with all of the new knowledge they gained decades. The original Zero-R made 450hp and 363ft/lbs respectable numbers in the early 90s for sure, and age So the ancient T04E turbo was ripped out... In its place was a new Nismo block from the kit, one that took the rb26 up to 2.8L Plus, they upped the compression, threw in and then finally added a couple HKS GT2530 All mated to a modified Getrag 6 speed transmission They even pulled the back seats out and moved a custom and very intricate twin exhaust system. When it was all said and done, the final numbers with what HKS was known for Of the 4 Zero-Rs that were made, 1 one was the public will probably never see. The other 3 weren't actually sold. They were always at the HKS factory, just Well that was until a few years ago. When the #3 Zero R popped up in the wild at The car sold at the 2019 Tokyo Auto Salon I'm not sure who bought it or where it went, probably won't ever see it in the wild. And that's a shame given HKS' history of planet. But the fact that this car exists is something HKS finally managed to build the car they And in the process, they gre into one of the As for HKS' history after the Zero-R, well hell it never stopped at all They continued selling their now-extensive tuner car, and expanded to European and American In 2010, HKS introduced a new proprietary And for some cars like the Lancer Evo, it the factory manifold, It was OEM quality and fitment that very few was the reputation on which they built their But just as things were getting good, the The exchange rate to the yen was deteriorating And that meant that in 2011, HKS announced It was a huge blow to their business, probably history. And, honestly, it was indicative of a larger Japanese tuning houses were struggling to Trust, one of HKS's biggest competitors, HKS' then chairman, Jun Toyoda, even said companies rising to the heights they used Times had changed and the only way to stay which meant cutting costs, and even shifting their focus to the emerging Despite those setbacks, though, they hung And slowly but surely they built the company Even reestablishing their US operations in They stayed committed to drifting, Time Attack, And as for Hiroyuki Hasegawa, the founder He remained an integral part of the HKS story One of the visionaries that pioneered an entire One who saw a car as a blank canvas that could All from his humble little shed and his undying Thanks for watching! If you liked this video, you'd love our Don't forget to subscribe and support us a Patron. I'll see you in the next one.