Concrete reinforced with steel is the Reinforcement within concrete creates a composite against compressive stress while the reinforcement But, while steel reinforcement solves one an entirely new problem: Corrosion of embedded deterioration. So what are we doing about it? Hey I'm Grady, and this is Practical Engineering. On today's episode, we're testing out Although unprotected steel is naturally prone into concrete, certain factors usually work First is the obvious protection of simply by a relatively impermeable and durable material. Water and contaminants usually can't make The second form of protection is the alkaline The high pH of normal concrete creates a thin from corrosion. But, in some cases, this protection isn't One of the main sources of corrosion to rebar Whether through exposure to saltwater near salts to make roadways safer during the winter, the concrete, corroding the steel reinforcement. And when steel corrodes, it creates iron oxide This expansion generates stress, sometimes primary causes of concrete deterioration. So, how do we prevent these chloride ions and causing corrosion? The first line of defense is cover. Cover is the minimum distance between the steel. And, depending on exposure and application, concrete cover, generally between 25 and 75 Cover is one of the reasons good concrete ever shows up on the job site. Installing strong formwork and lots and lots help to make absolutely sure that, through chaos that comes when it's time to actually designed to be embedded within the final product. Neglecting these steps can cause rebar to to an outside surface before the concrete of the reinforcement due to lack of cover. But, even with adequate cover, a crack in into direct contact with the reinforcement. And it won't surprise you to learn that Most concrete shrinks as it cures which can Changes in temperature also cause expansion Concrete can also crack under normal, expected takes up stresses within the material. One way to solve this issue is by prestressing a previous video and something I'd like But today I want to show another option for Fiber reinforced concrete is pretty much exactly It's not a new idea by any means, but our fibers within a concrete mix continues to Adding glass, steel, or synthetic fibers to one of the most important is crack control. I constructed three nearly identical reinforced I let them cure for about a week. The first one only has steel rebar as reinforcement. I'm using my hydraulic press to test out prior to failure. And I'm using tons as a measurement of force the gauge says, but the units are completely If you prefer SI, just pretend these are metric As I increase the load on the beam, you see These cracks form because steel stretches in the concrete. The beam is holding the load just fine and can't stretch along with the steel so it You can imagine how these cracks could let and eventually deteriorate the concrete. Those cracks are the important part of this until the beam failed because, hey, that's For these next two beams, I included fibers and the other has glass fibers. The steel rebar and fibers team up to resist The rebar provides large scale reinforcement member, and the fibers provide small scale causes cracking. When I load these beams to 3 tons, you can't In fact, for both of these beams, I didn't and even then the cracks were much smaller. Both beams failed at about the same load as Like I said, the fibers don't really add can easily see they could go a long way in You may be wondering why are we even using Steel is relatively inexpensive, well-tested, that with excellent mechanical properties For very corrosive environments, we sometimes but there are some emerging alternatives like This is reinforcement made of basalt, remelted to create fibers that are extremely strong. Options like this often cost cost more than But, the major impediment to the use of these isn't just the cost. It's easy to see that those additional costs the concrete. Another inhibition comes simply from the lack Innovation happens slowly in civil engineering high. Gaining confidence in a design has as much simply seeing how well similar designs have But many engineering disasters have come not bad maintenance, so long-term durability can design criteria. We'll certainly be seeing more innovative including the options I mentioned in this Thank you for watching, and let me know what