bring it on Don't waste your time Come together Tell you The ancestors of your Japanese martial arts From us China You're also good at it. How about you two come together? Bullying a kid doesn't make you a hero. I can play with you. But I see you just finished. I must be running out of energy. If I win the fight with you now That's also an unfair victory How about this, we'll still be here the day after tomorrow We're having a fair fight Well, if you become a loser You must die here. No problem, but I have one condition. you say I want all the prisoners in the prison camp to watch the battle. I want to be in front of everyone Win you fair and square I promise you We'll fight it out here then. Are you okay? I took this child away Wait a moment May I have your name My last name is Ni, and my name is Laozi A very strange name Sir, he's taking advantage of you. What Homophone of Ni Laozi In Chinese, it means your father. You are his son. Bastard Come on, come on, come on Please welcome Mr. Takeda. Come on, come on, come on For the sake of fairness in this competition Adopting international practices Five-inning system Three minutes per round If any party is defeated during this period Failure to stand up within 10 seconds The game is considered a failure. If the two sides are still tied after five games, The side with more points wins. No Today, between him and I There must be one lying down. Wait a moment There is also a device on the stage After each game The winner presses the device How many points do you win? Just press the green button a few times Commander Takeda, win more battles. Then press the red button a few times What's the use? Bring people up political commissar What does this mean? Kawakami, try to show him yes Do you understand? You are so shameless You're distracting him by doing this. Can't concentrate on the game wrong This will further stimulate his potential. Bullshit, that's not fair. Unfair, unfair, unfair Senior, let's not compete anymore. No more comparison, no more comparison, no more comparison Needless to say start team leader Captain, Captain Captain, don't let him corner you. team leader Captain, Captain Get up, get up, get up OK, OK, OK Fast, fast, fast Are you okay? Are you okay? Water, Stone Captain, how is it? He is stronger than you, and his lower body is very stable There are basically no flaws when attacking. Don't pester him. Remember, don't get locked up by him. His locking skills are amazing. The first game ended with a score of seven to five. Chief Takeda leads by two points Senior, Senior Come on, come on, come on team leader Get up, get up, get up Foul, foul team leader Come here soon team leader Downstream, downstream mean Hold on Senior Captain Captain, why don't you do as I say? Don't pester him Stone team leader Drink some water, drink some water team leader Wake up, wake up Senior Wake up, wake up The second game ended with a score of 5 to 4 Chief Takeda is a little ahead. Long Live the Emperor Senior, he only has those three tricks, don't worry Remember, don't pester him. Keep a good distance Keep your distance Senior, keep your distance. Senior Stop pestering him and come out Senior Senior, get up! Senior, get up! Stand Out Come on, come on Come on, come on, come on Come on, Stone quick Sir, are you okay? Sir, are you all right, sir? Sir, I'll shoot him dead. Don't Senior, hold on. Come on, come on, come on start Come on, come on, come on Leave me alone, come on. Captain, Senior, Captain stand up Senior, Captain stand up Captain, Captain, wake up! Senior, Captain Stones, Stones, Stones Captain, wake up, Captain Aren't you going to save Lao Li? Captain, Sister Shangguan is still waiting for you to come back What if I die? Don't talk nonsense I believe you will come back alive. Captain, wake up! team leader Come on, come on, come on come on How could he do that? Isn't this a way to seek death? Come on, come on, come on Senior I see Captain, this is to exhaust Takeda's strength. Then, when the opportunity arises, you strike a fatal blow. Sir, Sir team leader Four, five, six Seven, Eight The fourth game ended 11 ping fart We obviously won. Change it, change it I said 11 square meters, so 11 square meters Look, guys, they are so mean. Change it Change it, change it, change it Stones, stones, stones, stones You are pretty good. There's only one round left. Let's try a new way what ever start Come on, come on, come on Be careful, Captain. Get out of the way, why don't you get out of the way OK, OK, OK Sir, Sir One, two, three, four Five, six, seven Come on, come on, come on Be careful, senior. Come on, come on, come on Don't get locked up by him. Get up, get up I didn't expect it This is how the two of us ended up Nice to meet a friend like you I promised to duel with Takeda the day after tomorrow Are you crazy? I'm very good at it. Actually, I am a martial arts master. Get up, come on, come on Get up, Captain. Get up, get up Get up, get up, good, good, good Sir, Sir Get up, sir. Chief Get up Stand up, stand up Hang in there! Senior Captain, there's one last round left, hold on! Get up, get up, get up Chief Get up, sir. Get up, Captain, get up! Get up, Captain. Chief Get up, sir, get up Captain, Senior Senior, be careful Be careful Senior, senior, be careful careful OK, OK, OK Beat him to death OK, OK, OK Captain, get up, get up Get up, get up OK, OK, OK team leader Captain, Captain team leader The senior won, we won The senior won team leader Win, win Slow down, slow down Why are you doing this? You are such a lunatic. That's your luck. Your name is good