It's AumSum Time Hi guys. Can you guess the title of my next video Write your guess in the comments section below. Why are giraffes so tall? Because they pull each other's necks and legs. No. Some scientists believe that being tall helps giraffes feed on leaves which are present at greater heights. As shorter herbivores are not able to reach It decreases the competition for food. Another study suggests that a giraffe's long neck is evolved to compete or fight for females. Male giraffes whip their neck and swing their heads violently into each other's ribs and neck. This is called necking. The giraffe having longer neck tends to win and hence, is preferred by the female giraffe. A study also suggests that as the legs of giraffes got longer, their necks also gradually got longer. So that they could easily drink water by bending their necks. Some people also think that being tall helps giraffes spot approaching predators. While some others believe that being tall gave them a larger surface area. Thus helping them regulate their body temperature. Why did pirates wear eye patches? To show off. No. When light coming from an object reaches our eyes, it passes through a hole called pupil. When it is too bright, the size of pupil decreases, allowing less light to enter into our eyes. When it is dark, the size of pupil increases, Thus helping us see better in dark. However, if we suddenly move from a bright room to a dark room. Our eyes take some time to adapt to the darkness. Hence, a pirate wore an eye patch over a single eye so that, that eye can get adapted to darkness. Now, while fighting in case the pirate had He just removed the patch from the covered eye which was already adapted to darkness. Helping the pirate to immediately see in the dark. Why is whale vomit so valuable? Because it contains gold. No. Some scientists suggest that when sperm whales eat animals like squids. They digest most of their body parts. However, their sharp beaks are indigestible Thus, whale's digestive system produces a Ambergris covers the sharp beaks helping them to pass through the tract easily. Now, some people thought that whales vomited this ambergris. However, a research suggests that it is expelled from the other end. Then, over time, this ambergris reacts with This waxy rock or ambergris is used by some perfume companies. But why? This ambergris helps the perfume to stick Hence, perfume companies pay thousands of dollars for just a pound of ambergris. Topic: Properties of a liquid. Why is a diver able to cut through water in Simple, because I taught him. No. This is because of intermolecular force. Intermolecular force is the force of attraction present in between the molecules of solids, liquids or gases. Now, the intermolecular forces in liquids This means, I'm the strongest of all. Please listen. Since the intermolecular forces are not strong, the molecules of a liquid are loosely packed. They have empty spaces in between them. As a result, the molecules can be displaced Hence, when a diver jumps into water, its The diver is able to cut through the water. Topic: Nuclear fusion. Why is nuclear fusion not used to generate You really want to know the answer to this, But wait. Before answering the question, let us understand what is meant by nuclear fusion. When two lighter nuclei combine to form a This process is called nuclear fusion. Where does this nuclear fusion take place? You think that it takes place in a laboratory? No, you are absolutely wrong. Nuclear fusion takes place in the sun. The nuclei of two hydrogen atoms join together to form a heavy nucleus of helium. With the release of a large amount of energy. How do you think this energy reaches us? No. It does not reach us through power lines. Wait, I will tell you. The energy released after nuclear fusion reaches us in the form of sunlight, ultraviolet radiations, heat, etc. Hey. But we are already producing electricity with the help of nuclear fission. So, why do we require nuclear fusion? For this, you need to first understand the difference between nuclear fusion and nuclear fission. As we already know. Nuclear fusion is the fusion of two lighter nuclei with the release of a large amount of energy. The exact opposite process happens in nuclear fission. Here, a heavier nucleus splits into two lighter nuclei, releasing a large amount of energy. This process of fission is used in nuclear Where a heavy nucleus of uranium is split into lighter nuclei. The energy that is released in this is used However, there is a major disadvantage of Wondering what it is? The major disadvantage is that uranium is When uranium undergoes fission, it generates radioactive waste along with energy. This radioactive waste is very harmful for Hence, we need to find a clean and safe source of energy to generate electricity. What source would that be? Would it be nuclear fusion? You are right. Then why are we not harnessing the energy of nuclear fusion to produce electricity? This is because, for nuclear fusion, two conditions are required. They are high pressure and high temperature. Only when these conditions are met, can the two nuclei travel at very high speeds resulting in collision. On earth, it is extremely difficult to create Even if we are somehow able to create these conditions, the question is how will we control them? As there are many questions unanswered and unsolved. We have not yet succeeded in using nuclear fusion in the production of electricity.