Boss, bring me a bowl of rice noodles. Rice noodles are coming! Rice noodles are coming! Good Kung Fu Put down your fish in the basket Spare you life I said This golden carp given by the centenarian I am a doctor who treats people, how can I give you I'll let you have a taste of the power of the Yangtze River Iron Network Gang good Big Brother Big Brother Bald donkey, which temple did this wild monk come from? How dare you get involved in the Iron Net Gang's affairs? I'm sorry, brother. It's my younger brother's. Sorry, sorry. Who calls you brother? I'm going to tear you apart alive today Brothers, come up stop Bullying a little monk and using hidden weapons I'm not afraid of damaging the reputation of the Iron Net Gang. Take down this old man and this little monk. Cousin, hurry up. Cousin, drive faster, cousin Coming Soon My master is here. The Bell and Sword Heroes are here Have you caught the golden carp in Shuilubo? Master Baisui gave me a golden carp Encountered this gang of thugs robbing Almost cost me my life Cousin, look This is the scorpion tail dart that kills with one blow. Very impressive Who is so vicious? The Bell and Sword Heroes In recent years, he has made a great name for himself But my Changjiang Iron Network Gang is very powerful Everyone knows How dare your old servant not buy into my account? I'm afraid it's not that easy. So that means it's you You know that this scorpion tail dart can corrode your heart and bones. But it still hurts Don't you want to take someone's life? You guys are too cruel. Bold I'll spare you today. If I meet you next time Don't blame me for being ruthless What are you trying to show off? Today I will show off my power My cousin beat him to death for daring to laugh at me Big Brother Big Brother Big Brother, take a walk What to see Miss, I forgot to tell you This young master saved my life. Thank you, Master Saved our family's life I don't know what the young master's Dharma name is. I am just an ordinary monk. No legal name This ingot of gold is a token of gratitude. Please ask Master Buy the incense oil in front of the Bodhisattva seat You are welcome The little master has a strong hand May I ask your names, both of you? You are a martial artist. You must know the nickname of the Bell and Sword Heroes. I just heard that black-faced man say You two are the Bell and Sword Heroes But I don't know your names. drive My name is Shui Sheng He is my cousin, his name is Wang Xiao My cousin is from the Blood Knife Sect. Yes, he is from the Blood Knife Sect I miss you for your kindness to our old family. Get out of here! I am not I'm really not me You, don't come over here Don't come near me, you little pervert What did you say? I really am not Listen to me, you still dare to move forward Why you hit me? I'll beat you to death, you little pervert I'll kill you. I'll kill you. Why do you hit people for no reason? Walk slowly. Walk slowly. Is there anything delicious to eat? Yes, come up to me quickly. Please sit down quickly. Guests' Food and Drinks Cousin, please drive away. Second Guest Officer Bring me another plate of beef A few more bowls of rice. Take it and exchange it for some silver, hurry up Come right now. Come right now. Get out of the way! Where can my cousin go? Cousin, let's go that way. It's easy to walk over there Waiter, waiter, where is my meal? What are you shooting? Bring me the food quickly. Little Master, you have done a bad thing. Our master asks you to go. Don't move The rapist who raped and murdered Miss Guan is here Catch Him I'm not I'm not I'm not I'm not Last night, a thief from the Blood Knife Sect Raped a young lady from the Guan family This blood knife sect is immortal The people have no peace for a single day. Cousin, let's go and have a look The Bell and Sword Heroes Great hero, spare my life, great hero, spare my life I tell you I'm not from the Blood Blade Sect You just don't believe it I'll tell you what to say I'm not a flower thief Where did this flower-stealing thief come from? Great hero, spare my life, great hero, spare my life You guys listen to me. Cousin, drive quickly. You little pervert, you raped and killed Miss Guan. The sin is unforgivable. Look at the sword. cousin Disciple, go! I'm going to fight you, old pervert What a beauty cousin My disciple, please go quickly. Cousin Let go of the evil monk, let go quickly Let me go, let me go, let me go Come on, old villain, let me go Let me go, let me go Put me down, old villain Why are you yelling? Shut up. She's very pretty. My ancestor, I am very lucky. What Sheng'er was captured by the Blood Knife Sect yes uncle Release the white doves quickly Three uncles came to rescue yes Drive uncle I have made appointments with more than a dozen martial arts masters They are waiting outside the door. Okay, you go ahead. Your uncle Hua and I will be there soon yes Miaomiao Grandpa, I am so lucky. I'll go practice first. I'll enjoy it slowly later Drive fast Follow me Follow me Turtle son Do you want to steal the ginseng fruit of our ancestor first? I don't Turtle son I just like you, a bold and flowery boy You broke your leg but you're not afraid of the pain Still want women I I Very good, very suitable for my taste You got your legs connected wrong, son of a bitch I'll pick you up. Are you Bao Xiang's new disciple? yes It seems that Baoxiang must like you very much Even his blood-sword monk's robe was given to you Did he pass on the Blood Sword Sutra to you? Is this the one? Very good. What's the name? My name is Di. My name is Di San. Your master didn't follow you. Did you mention the master's Dharma name? No My Dharma name is Blood Knife Ancestor You are a son of a bitch, not a grandson of a bitch I like you very much You just need to follow my grandpa. You can enjoy all the beauties in the world Grab whichever one you want. But they said we We are bloody thieves That teacher Grandpa, you are our headmaster. Bao Xiang, this bastard, is really tight-lipped. Family history He didn't even tell his beloved disciple. Your grandfather, I He is the fourth generation headmaster of the Blood Blade Sect. You should follow me and learn The sixth generation of the headmaster may fall on your head I have already fixed your leg. In less than a month, you can walk like flying Turtle grandson You said this girl is pretty, right? Yes or no It's very beautiful. Don't forget The rules of our Blood Knife Sect The first bite of this ginseng fruit Let the master grandfather taste it first It's your turn after the master has tasted it. Your daughter's body can't be protected after all Not good, someone Who is where There there there That there And there and there You really have some skills, bastard. Someone is coming Can you tell how many people there are? I don't know One or two Ten horses, seventeen in total But it's still more than ten miles away. Don't miss my good thing. Since the Grandmaster Since seventeen people are coming soon Then I think you should save your energy first. Then find another opportunity You have a good conscience, you bastard. Rare Grandpa likes you very much This is the blood knife. This sword is always in full moon night A human head must be sacrificed Otherwise, the sharpness will be reduced Look, the moon is full today. It's rare that seventeen people came to sacrifice the knife for me. Sword, sword! You can feast on human blood tonight. The fourth generation leader of the Blood Blade Sect, the Blood Blade Patriarch The sixth generation disciple Di San is here Cousin, cousin, cousin This beauty has done it My disciple's eighteenth concubine Whoever wants to come up to the wedding can come up. drive Kill the blood knife villain and rid the martial arts world of harm Kill the blood knife villain and rid the martial arts world of harm Cousin Cousin Cousin Cousin Cousin, go kill that little pervert. I am not me I am not cousin Good boy Let's see whether your sword is faster or my knife is faster superior Daddy is coming Falling Flowers and Flowing Water I'll beat you to a pulp Your death has come, old villain. Good disciple, prepare your horse quickly We need to spend less time together Cousin, I'm going to block his retreat. It's getting late and we can't get away. Disciple, go! Drive my cousin Who is the Grandmaster Luo Hua Liu Shui? I heard from your master Bao Xiang that The most powerful in the Central Plains martial arts world In addition to Ding Dian What are the four wonders in the south and the four strange things in the north? What are the names of the four northern monsters? The Four Wonders of the South are Falling Flowers and Flowing Water I thought his nickname was Falling Flowers and Flowing Water Martial arts is not that good But listen to these four guys The sound of response is really a little tricky The name of these four people is Lu Tianshu Flower iron stem Liu Cheng Feng Shui Dai Falling Flowers and Flowing Water Their martial arts skills are not inferior to mine. If four people join forces Little Chick The handsome boy with the sword Who are you? He has quite a bad temper. Among the four people in Falling Flowers and Flowing Water Which one is your daddy? Grandmother's name is Shui Sheng I think the one with the surname Shui is her father. You little pervert, are you worthy enough to mention my father's name? What's so great about your dad? Empty shouting but no one is there It is obvious that he is a drunkard. If you have the guts, don't run away, you old pervert. you tell me What is the most precious thing for a woman? I have no idea What are you going to do? What are you going to do? What are you going for? What are you going for? I tell you The most precious thing about a woman is her face This girl is quite stubborn I just need to cut seven times on your face Eight vertical cuts This move is called horizontal and vertical Do you think it is beautiful? I asked you who your father is. If you don't tell me again, I'll kill you with a knife Kill me if you can. What's the point of keeping you? Are you okay? You little pervert who has fallen into misfortune, What you say or don't say My second knife and fork is down If you have the guts, come and kill me. Not that easy How about these two sword skills of my disciple? It's really high. Do you want to learn? I have such good knife skills It would be a good thing if I learn If you learn knife skills well Later, I met this girl's cousin I'm going to teach him a lesson. Besides, I have learned knife skills. It won't ruin your prestige. Shameless Good grandpa will teach you a trick The skill of splitting paper and removing rot This is a trick that no one in the world can do. boast You say I'm bragging, so I'll try it. What are you going to do? Don't move. Watch this. good Grandfather Your martial arts skills are really too high This knife technique is amazing. Grandfather Your martial arts are simply amazing. It's simply unmatched. I want to practice one tenth of your skills. Then I'll be satisfied. So despicable and disgusting She called you mean. You have good qualifications as long as you are willing to work hard This skill can definitely be learned You try it This little monk won't How can you let him try? If you don't practice Kung Fu, you won't be able to If you fail once, try again If you fail twice, try eight or ten times. Grandpa is right. Don't move Kill me to save me from being insulted by you. You try it bravely. Grandpa, this knife How should I exert my strength? The waist strength moves the shoulders and connects to the arms Arms are weak and wrists are powerless As the knife passed over her face Need this No power is better than power. No power is better than power. Unfortunately, I was framed. The saddle bone was pierced I can't exert any more strength. why are you laughing Disciple You are so lustful that you don't care about your body That's why you failed, right? I am not How many girls have been harmed by being honest? Is it because of women? I was burdened by women. That little bitch from the Wan family She hurt me so badly One day I will seek revenge on her. You have warned me of so many bad things. And you said that they are causing trouble for you The shameless people in the world Led by your little pervert Led by your little pervert What a courageous disciple! Take off her clothes for me Show her See if she dares to curse. You dare What am I afraid of? Grandfather Do you think a piece of scrap like me can still practice martial arts? What's impossible? Both hands and feet were cut off. I can also learn the Kung Fu of my Blood Sword Sect Really, that's great. They came to Shangfeng Cousin, cousin, please come Cousin driving Cousin Cousin drive cousin Cousin Cousin, save my cousin cousin cousin drive cousin cousin Cousin cousin cousin cousin cousin cousin Save me The villain put down my cousin Drive, drive, drive Drive, drive, drive Save me, cousin! Cousin, save me Falling Flowers and Flowing Water Falling Flowers and Flowing Water Falling Flowers and Flowing Water Falling Flowers and Flowing Water drive Daddy, come and save me, Daddy All four arrived Sheng Er Sheng Er Uncle Lu, Uncle Liu As long as you put down the water girl We can let you go Dad, come and save me Falling Flowers and Flowing Water Put my daughter down, thief! My disciple, run, run! Drive drive drive drive Run, don't worry about me, run Drive, drive, drive Drive Dad, be careful. drive Water Master Two people from the Blood Knife Sect I have become your son-in-law. Evil Thief No Water Master The fourth generation leader is your son-in-law The sixth generation disciple is also your son-in-law Father-in-law chasing son-in-law Wonderful, wonderful Master, this is what you want. Is there anything else you need? Don't go down. Water Girl You can't run away anyway. Just take a bite. roll In fact, as long as you obey my good grandson Why should I give you acupuncture points every day? It makes trouble for everyone If you don't eat it, I will. It's okay not to eat To avoid the four old ghosts chasing after me She had the strength to jump off the horse Your grandfather has suffered so much. Who said I don't eat? I eat. Did you hear that? Did you hear that? I want to eat, little pervert, did you hear me? I said I wanted to eat My grandson is kindhearted. That day, flowers and flowing water surrounded me He refused to escape first. Okay, the sixth generation leader, grandpa gives it to you. You hold it a little Although our horses are fast Those guys chased me day and night. It's also quite troublesome Hurry up and catch up Drive fast All the people from the Xishu Escort Agency came out I don't know what happened. I heard that the evil bandits of the Blood Knife Sect are causing trouble in the Central Plains You fled to western Sichuan yesterday, right? It is the four wonders of the south, falling flowers and flowing water Was he ambushed by the Blood Knife Sect? Another team came Drive, drive, drive Drive, drive, drive Disciple We'll be home soon after crossing this canyon. Drive, drive, drive Drive, drive, drive Drive, drive, drive The four heroes All the people from Xishu Escort Agency I wish to receive the mission from all the heroes. Rescue Miss Shui and capture the evil thief Thank you. Drive, drive, drive quick Drive, drive, drive Hurry up and catch up Keep up Huanglong Huanglong, get up quickly Get up Huanglong Get up Huanglong This hoof print is from Huang Long. Less than two hours Drive into the snow valley and go fast You can't run away now. Let's save some trouble and eat. Grandmaster When a horse dies, it dies. What are you going to do? My dear grandson, it's easy for me to run alone. But your leg injury makes it difficult for you to walk. If this beautiful girl To someone else Isn't that a big loss? The villain knocked down a mount He can't escape pursuit. The villain is chasing you in front The rapist scolded me so much, let me go I am a pervert, let me go Let me see it quickly Is it the snow here? Still a pretty girl with white skin Kill me, kill me. That won't work. I have no interest in dead people. Catch up, catch up. Catch the villain and kill him He's right in front of you. Don't let him get away. Hurry up! There's an avalanche. Go fast Drive Quick Don't stop, rush Drive There's an avalanche. Water hero, please retreat quickly! drive It's snowing hard, please get out of here. The second brother left You shout louder Let there be an avalanche in this valley We three can reincarnate together. Are you willing to have a three night stay and three flights? Don't be afraid, water girl. Aren't we doing fine now? You take a good rest We can go out. The Four Heroes of Falling Flowers and Flowing Water did not appear I hope they can escape this disaster. So what should we do? The valley was sealed You can only go in when the spring comes and the snow melts. Go fast and drive Grandpa, what's the situation outside? What the fuck is going on? You are the one who is holding me back. Not for you Can it be like this today? Can it be like this today? Grandfather Has the enemy already secured the entrance to the valley? If the enemy comes I think you should run away first. Don't mind me My legs can no longer run You better run away first. If I, a little monk, am lucky enough to survive today I believe We will have a chance to meet again in the future. I didn't expect it. ... My Blood Knife Ancestor has been wandering around the martial arts world for so many years I know some A bad thing that harms others and does not benefit oneself Even his disciples None of them are good. It is you, the stupid disciple, who has the most conscience. Good boy, let me tell you It's not the enemy guarding the valley entrance It is several dozen feet high The snow covered the valley for dozens of miles. The snow won't melt until spring We can't go out anymore. There is nothing to eat in this snow valley. How are we going to make it until next spring? Grandfather Grandpa, please rest assured The boat will naturally go straight when it reaches the bridge Even if we starve to death It's better than being tortured to death by those people. You said it well How are the injuries of the eldest brother and fourth brother? It will take a few more hours to recuperate. This time, my fourth brother shouldn't make a big fuss. It's just a minor flesh wound. As long as I can save Brother Lu's life Even if I lose all my skills What does it count? There is a fourth brother who said Even if I, Lu Tianshu, lose my life We also need to rescue Miss Shui Sheng Flower Second Brother Although I can't see any trace of the blood knife thief But the direction is never wrong Why don't you let your eldest brother and fourth brother heal here? You and I will chase after them separately. You'll definitely find them. Good, let's go first. While they are avoiding the avalanche Let's rescue Sheng'er It's better to leave this damn place as soon as possible. right His grandmother brought food. Grandfather The food was lost during the avalanche. Hey you bastard I want to starve your grandmaster to death I was in a panic. Why did Baoxiang accept you as his disciple? You, you, what are you going to do? Why eat dry food when you can eat horse meat? Don't eat my white dragon Please don't eat it. White Dragon, run! White Dragon, run! I even eat human flesh What is a horse? Don't eat it. Don't eat it. Don't kill my white dragon Don't kill my white dragon Bailong, run away, please don't kill it Don't kill my white dragon This white horse seems to be quite important. White Dragon Little monk, please have mercy Please beg him. Please don't kill my white dragon. Water Girl No, I don't want to help you. Just think about it When the snow melts next year We don't know how many days are left. If you don't eat this white horse What can a fork eat? Even if you eat it, Maybe that's not enough. don't want Miss Shui, don't be sad. I promise you after we leave the valley I'll find you a horse that's better than your own. A horse that is ten times more handsome than the others I don't want it, I just want my white dragon It grew up with me. Play with me It's like my family. My dad gave it to me. My dear grandson, I think this piece of meat weighs two hundred kilograms. If I eat two pounds a day Just enough for 100 days What if I split it with two more people? No White Dragon No White Dragon No White Dragon How is your grandson? Is your great-grandfather's craftsmanship good? It's okay if it's not good Anyway, there is plenty of time to practice cooking skills. White DragonWhite DragonWhite Dragon The beauty woke up and slept well Did you dream about me, Bailong? You really ate my white dragon Don't be like this. Take care of your body. Are you hungry? Come and eat dragon meat You two evil men You killed my white dragon I must take revenge I must call me dad Kill both of you. Then cut into ten or eight pieces Not cut into sixteen or eighteen pieces Then fry it in oil and burn it Let the dog eat Water girl is such a big snow mountain There's nothing to eat. We can't just watch them starve to death, right? Besides If we don't eat it, what will we eat? Water girl, I told you After I leave the valley I'll find you a better horse. Stop pretending to be a good person. You little villain are worse than the old villain. I am the old villain at least Looks like a bad guy Let others be on guard against him along the way But you pretend to be a good person to deceive people You are committing one crime upon another. I hate you. I hate you so much. Even if you hate me, I can't starve to death. Brother Lu, thank you for your hard work. You saved Brother Lu's life. Why are you being polite to me? The taste is good. It's really not bad. I'll roast this chick and eat her in a few days. I'm afraid it may not be as delicious as horse meat Little evil thief Your old evil grandfather is watching you. Do you know why he looks at you? Why He is thinking about when he can eat you. How to eat you So smart It's right in my heart. Water girl, let me see He will eat you first. Then come and eat me You'd better not eat anything Leave it all to my grandpa That way he will eat you later. You'll be starving by then. Please don't blame us. you Must not There is no meat on a starving person. Even if there is meat, it must be tight and thin There is no oil, not delicious, not delicious Girl, you must eat more. Keep fatter So that I can get my belly down. As for my good disciple After you finish eating, you will eat him. But it's a pity that others are delicious I'll keep him for last. I think I'm doing him justice. Dad, our white dragon Eaten by the villain Come and rescue me My white dragon is dead. Who is this person? How did you rush in? Where is it? There you look It seems that this person's martial arts Not inferior to my great master. It's Uncle Liu Uncle Liu Chengfeng is here Uncle Liu is here My dad must be nearby. Isn't it an avalanche? How did they get into the valley? Wait till my dad comes. I'll let him kill you first. Kill kill kill kill Daddy Daddy I'm here, Dad. Did you hear that? Stop shouting or else the avalanche will come down We both die together. Did You Know I just want you, the evil thief, to die. I won't let you go even if I kill you Daddy, I'm here, Daddy. Shut up and keep yelling like that What if there's an avalanche? I think you want to bury your father here. You want to kill your father, don't you? I told you to shut up. When is it your turn to tell me to shut up? I told you to shut up. Shut up shut up shut up shut up Let me see, let me see if your father can come. My father's martial arts skills are so high My uncle Liu can come My dad will definitely be able to come too. Even if there is an avalanche, at most I will be crushed to death My father won't die. When my father comes, I will let him Kill both of you. Eliminate harm for the people Come on, Uncle Liu! Come on, Uncle Liu! Beat him to death Come on, Uncle Liu! Beat him to death Stop cheering him on. Look at your Uncle Liu. There's nothing to do now. Only know how to defend but not how to attack What? My uncle Liu is the calmest person. Pay attention to the principle of taking the initiative I've only heard that it's better to strike first. I don't know what the counterattack is. You are a member of the Blood Blade Sect. I don't even understand these things. This is called &quot;starting first after starting&quot; Are you from the Blood Knife Sect? Are they all as stupid as you? Yeah, we're all stupid. But you heroes You can't beat us idiots. Dad, come and save me I told you to stop shouting, little girl I told you to stop shouting, little girl I want to shout I want to shout Daddy, where are you? Stop shouting If you scream again I'll cut off your tongue father My legs are broken and you still want to cut my tongue Stop bragging. Your grandmaster can't protect himself I'll kill you now. I'll see what you can do I'll let you fight back I'll smash you to death I will beat you to death Let you call your master grandpa Wherever you shout, wherever you shout, wherever you shout I'll beat you to death I'll beat you I'll beat you to death I'll beat you to death You dare to fight back? You are so brave. I'll let you fight back You stop You stop Come over again I took off my pants You little wicked thief. You dare to use This shameless act humiliates me You take five steps forward The farther away from me the better I tell you I've taken my pants off. Come here if you dare. Don't come over here. Don't come over here. Don't come here, you little pervert. Come here You're such a cruel, stinky girl. I, Di Yun, a man of honor, Such a despicable act Daddy, where are you? Your father was slightly injured. I'll be here in a minute. Uncle Flower When the avalanche just now A huge piece of ice fell from the mountain It's hitting your uncle Lu on the head. Your father hit the ice with his palm to save Uncle Lu It's just a minor injury, it's not a big deal Have you seen those two villains? Evil Thief The little villain just bullied me Go kill him now. Where is he? Behind the Rock So that Uncle Hua can vent your anger for you The bad little monk Hurry up and be yourself So you don't have to waste your energy Brother Ding It's not that I'm not dedicated. People in this world are so weird. My luck is really bad. Don't be angry. Come out quickly Uncle Flower Uncle Flower The little villain's leg was broken No skill at all Uncle Liu, be careful, Uncle Liu Uncle Hua, where are you going? Uncle Flower Uncle Hua, Uncle Hua, be careful, there are wolves. Hurry up, Uncle Hua, hurry up. Grandpa, you have to be careful. Why do I expect bad guys to kill good guys? Third Brother Third Brother you Brother, I can't do it anymore Third brother, you will be fine. I'll give you some golden medicine. Don't forget, brother. Report for me Third Brother Third Brother Third brother Third brother Uncle Liu Watchful waiting The inner strength is pretty good The evil thief takes his life Are you attracted to your great grandfather? This is so close It's a pity that you are not the girl with the surname Shui I'm not interested in you, an old man. Water girl, please go away Go to your uncle and be careful. Go to your uncle and be careful. Stop pretending, little thief. Let me kill you first to avenge my uncle Liu Let me kill you first to avenge my uncle Liu Let me kill you first to avenge my uncle Liu Don't come over here. If you come over again, I'll leave. If you come over again, I'll leave. I'm telling you I'm really out I'm out I'm out I'm out I'm out I'm out You might as well just reincarnate as an animal. I'm out I'm out Oh no, your niece is going to be a widow. Great! Come on, Uncle Lu! Brother Lu This evil thief killed Liu Sandi Let's avenge him. How shameless! You want to tire me to death I want to tire you to death Good disciple grandson Quickly catch that girl named Shui Quickly catch that girl named Shui Otherwise we will meet the King of Hell. Go and save Sheng'er! The villain wanted to take Sheng'er hostage. Chase away What about the girl named Shui? Grandpa, she's over there. How did you let her escape? Why don't you catch her? Grandpa, my leg is broken. Besides, I can't beat her. So I let her run away. Useless things Didn't I fix your leg? Can't even catch a chick I'll take care of you for Baoxiang. Grandfather father Daddy, save me Sheng Er Sheng Er father father Sheng Er father Sheng Er father Sheng Er Sheng Er It's not easy to escape from my hand Just accept your fate Sheng Er Dad father Sheng Er father Don't move Don't be afraid, Dad will come to rescue you. Don't come over here If you move again, I will kill her. Very good, throw away the weapon. Uncle Hua, Uncle Lu Don't bother me Kill this damn villain. Revenge for my uncle Liu Come on, revenge! Come on! Report for me I want revenge for my third brother. Don't be reckless, brother. How did the third brother die? It was this evil villain who plotted to kill my third brother. Daddy, I beg you Please kill me Daddy, Daddy Daddy, I'm sorry, Sheng'er Sheng Er Don't take risks, brother. Sheng Er Fourth brother Sheng'er is not dead What should I do with my second brother? Come down and fight to the death if you dare father You evil thief You three old bastards, come down if you can. Let me go I'm outside fighting the enemy You are the first to enjoy the good fortune Big Brother Big Brother Don't fall for the villain's provocation Let me go, let me go Let me go Let me go Come and seek revenge on me Don't touch me Let me go Come down if you have the guts, I'll be waiting for you Well, you deceived me, little thief You didn't take off your pants. What am I taking off? You let me go, you let me go Shut up Grandpa, please stop standing there. Let's take a break in the cave. As long as the Blood Knife Ancestor leaves this big rock We can chase them down. Good disciple grandson You know how to be filial to your grandmaster. I can't rest When I rest, the three old guys above We are about to go to see the King of Hell. Let me go, let me go This damn bald ass What are you going to do? What are you doing, little villain? Why don't you touch me? Don't touch me Who touched you? You think you are a beautiful lady? Ugly Ugly You said I was ugly You are an ugly bastard you Three old bastards, if you have the guts, come down Fighting Grandpa for 300 rounds &quot;Grandpa, I am waiting for you to come and show your respect. Let's bury the third brother's body first. good What the hell are these three old bastards doing? Old mixed hair My little wife and I are getting married soon. Don't you want to have a drink? Grandfather Will those three people leave? You asked a good question. I thought so at first. Think it's impossible Why Stupid boy I still don't understand such a simple truth. We still have that beautiful chick. Besides Those who claim to be chivalrous are stupid. They will not fail to avenge their brothers. I think Yiyi is just so-so. My dear disciple, I love hearing what you say. You're quite an interesting guy. My second brother! How was the third brother killed by the Blood Knife Ancestor? I am far away I saw the two of them competing in internal strength. With the inner strength of the third brother I shouldn't lose to the Blood Knife Ancestor. I saw the Blood Knife Patriarch suddenly use his palm When I arrived to rescue him, my poor third brother He fell under his bloody knife I didn't expect it was for Sheng'er Big Brother, Second Brother Let's bury the third brother's body. good What are you doing? Let me go. What are you doing? What are you going to do? There's no poison in your water. It's better to be poisonous Poison you bad guys Don't go outside. What's going on? I'm asking you a question. Do you want a thousand? Let me go Let me go, little villain Let me go Let me go Let me go Shut up, I'm telling you Don't you want to see what's going on outside? If you want to see yourself, The three old bastards have turned into salty turtles. No longer showing up The third brother has many gods above him and the King of Hell below him In the middle is the heroic spirit of the third brother Please bear witness for me If I can't do it myself, Kill the Blood Knife Patriarch to avenge his third brother You will die with this gun. What tricks are you playing? What are you looking at? Your grandpa is fine. Why don't you come down and give grandpa a leg massage? Bloody knife villain, you are so heartless Aren't you afraid of God's punishment? Fuck God's punishment I am not afraid of the world or the earth. I'm afraid there won't be any pretty girls. Let me enjoy it Father-in-law You old man don't need to scold Xiao Xu anymore. The old villain is waiting for my father to come down I will tear you into pieces The old man is angry. Look, old villain, old bastard is angry. Don't worry, I'm fine here. My dear, just wait for the good news. My good wife and I will live a happy life. Fucking Blood Knife Ancestor You are really smart all your life but confused for a moment. Why didn't you roast the horse meat? Carry a few pieces with you. Grandfather Grandpa, you must be hungry. I have a piece of horse meat. I put it on secretly. Good disciple grandson What a filial child. Grandfather Horse meat fork dry fork hard Have a drink of water My dear grandson, you are so filial. So filial to my grandfather I'm afraid you have something to ask. You have a good conscience, kid. Much better than my disciples. Tell me what's going on Grandpa Grandpa Grandpa Can you can you What to do Just not like a man, say it quickly Grandfather Stop swearing. You've already made the water girl faint. Besides There's nothing between us. It seems that the brat is really in love I good Because you are so filial to me. I should have promised you Thank you, Grandpa Master. Thank you, Grandpa Master. But I can't promise you Why Did you see it? Those three old bastards are up there now They are frightened of me now. Don't dare to jump down easily What if they risked their lives? If you jump down I'm afraid you and I will become playboys. You want to irritate them The brain is not slow I occupy the valley entrance Just make them angry Then cheat one by one I have a chance of winning You have a chance to survive. There are many women in the world Just follow your grandpa. I guarantee you will have endless happiness. I Do we have to fight to the death? What a fool Dog Brother I have a plan for you to see. Let's have a drink Let's follow the plan. Second brother, fourth brother, after you enter the valley There is no need to rush to fight with the Blood Knife Ancestor First quietly look for Sheng'er Don't worry If the villain really leaves the big rock I will definitely jump down and chop him to death well Where is my father-in-law? Where is my husband? Didn't you just say that to me? This son-in-law cares deeply How come it disappeared in the blink of an eye? Don't talk too much, evil thief They both wanted to attack separately. A brilliant plan Now that you have seen through Then wait for your death. Really lie without thinking Look, isn't that my father-in-law? Obviously behind you How did you trick me into coming to the valley? The evil thief takes his life Uncle Lu, Uncle Lu, come on! Come on, Uncle Lu! Uncle Lu Snow Dragon Walk What is going on? I see that the Blood Knife Patriarch and your uncle They must have fought under the snow. Playing under the snow Can you see the other person clearly? It must be invisible I can only play by feeling. Dad, come and save me, Dad Stop shouting Come on, Uncle Lu! You call dad to save me again If you scream again, I'll kill you. I don't believe you dare to kill me Okay, try shouting again. You people Always thought I was upright and chivalrous In fact, you are nothing. How many people have you killed? How many people did your father kill? Bullying a girl who was acupunctured What's so great? If you can, untie my acupuncture points Let's have a fair competition This is what you said Okay, I'll help you untie the hole. Let me tell you I don't understand at all You you you what you I tell you If you scream again I'll kill you Come on, here. Brother, be careful not to hurt Brother. This goes on How can Brother Lu be his opponent? Second brother, you can't do this. If you get in I can't see anything. This won't work. I think your uncle Lu might Shut up, you crow mouth Why do you say that my uncle Lu was defeated? I think it must be your unlucky master who died. I tell you The Blood Knife Ancestor lives in the Snow Mountain You must be very familiar with how to play on the snow. But from experience Your uncle Lu has already been at a disadvantage. You keep talking nonsense. I told my dad to kill you. I tell you your father is so far away from you Even if he comes I've already killed you. Shout and shout Big Brother Big Brother Uncle Lu Big Brother Big Brother Big Brother Big Brother Brother, you died for your brothers. The Heroic Spirit is Not Far Away I will definitely avenge you, big brother. Big Brother Big Brother Runny nose There are still two cowardly ghosts left There are still two cowardly ghosts left Give me back my brother's life. Fourth brother You can't see anything under the snow. You jump down randomly He will definitely fall into her trap. After a while That villain will definitely come up to get some fresh air Then we two will join forces to attack Cut him out Commemorate the spirits of the two brothers. Big Brother No Second Brother Follow the direction the villain fled Let's wait and see. Daddy Little evil thief Little monk, please kill me. If I die My dad will be safe. They can leave the valley. Please kill me Fourth brother, come quickly, look here Hurry up, bro. Go that way. father Do you think I don't know What's on your mind? You want your father to come a few feet closer? Then you yell at him So he can run over here Save you, right? I tell you, as long as you don't scream I won't pinch you anymore. father Most of the thieves were seriously injured Dead in the snow But the evil thief is full of tricks It's not a problem. Brother, you wait here. I'll go over there to cover it. As soon as the villain shows up Let's attack together. good good Be careful, brother. You can't stay until dark Dog husbands fight each other to be fair You have a sword in your hand and I have nothing in my hand I won't fight with you anymore. I won't fight with you anymore. Kill you evil thief What's fair or unfair? Fourth brother The evil thief has lost his weapon, I am here to help you Dad, please go away. Don't mind me, he's not human. He is the evil ghost father who takes his life He is the evil ghost father who takes his life I told you to stop shouting Dad, go away! Even if you shout, they can't hear you. They've come so far. Besides, they can't just abandon you. Where is my daughter? Your daughter followed me and I never regretted it. Tell me where my daughter is. Because you are my father-in-law. If you'd let me live I'll tell you Otherwise Even if you stab me with four hundred swords, I won't tell you Even if I don't want a daughter today I will kill you to avenge my brother. Wait, the father-in-law is unkind. Don't blame my son-in-law for being unjust. Excuse me How come his inner strength is exhausted? This is called &quot;doing too much evil will lead to your own destruction&quot; Evil Thief Hand over my daughter immediately. Fourth brother father father father You are so vicious, thief. Come over here and fight me for another 300 rounds. You are not a human, not a human, not a human Didn't you hear? Come here quickly. Uncle Hua fought with him. I have seventy-two tricks. Today only three I have killed three old guys from Jiangnan There are sixty-nine more All of them should be used on you. Article 69 Article 69 Brother Hua, don't be afraid You can't escape That's waiting for me to call Sixty-nine unspeakably cruel plots Courageous enough I admire you. Hua Erge fought with him The old thief is exhausted You can kill him easily now. This old man is really smart. See my flaws Very bad. Very bad. Good, I have exhausted my inner strength Let's go to that cliff and fight for three hundred rounds Those who don't go are turtle bastards No, no, brother. Second brother, aren't you doing this for Brother Lu? Are Brother Liu San and his men seeking revenge? Come on, let's fight. father Let me go, bastard, let me go Grandpa Grandpa Grandpa Dad Shenger father Sheng Er You said I was exhausted Okay, I'll show you. Is my anger exhausted or not? Don't bully the water girl. Don't worry Grandpa Shizu will not harm her life My good disciple, keep an eye on this girl. yes Hua Er Ge is coming soon Kill this shameless villain quickly! father See if my energy is exhausted? Brother Hua, hurry up and do it! Hurry up I'm afraid he's deliberately showing weakness. You're fooling me. Brother Hua, didn't you see clearly just now? This evil thief is very cunning He even killed three of our brothers. I, I, I can't do it. You call me grandpa three times father The man surnamed Shui would rather die than surrender Let me kill him now I won't let you die quickly. I'm going to cut off your arms piece by piece Cut your flesh piece by piece You call me grandpa three times Ask me for mercy and I won't kill you Dream your mother father Okay, I'll make your daughter. See if you call me grandpa you you {Grandpa father Daddy Daddy father This Hua guy will kneel down and beg for mercy in no time. I spared his life. Let him go out to promote it How did the water girl strip me of my clothes? Wonderful! Wonderful! Hua Tiegan you want to surrender Yes, yes I can spare your life The Blood Power Ancestor never killed anyone who surrendered. really Don't worry, don't be afraid You admit defeat and surrender I'll spare your life. I won't cut you. You can rest assured. Uncle Hua, don't listen to him. Uncle Hua, he lied to you. Daddy, wake up! Daddy, wake up, Daddy, wake up Dad, it's great that you woke up. It's okay, it's okay Who doesn't want to live? It's not shameful to surrender if you can't win What do you think? this This is very simple Just let go of your hands and drop the pistol. I will never harm your life. Uncle No Flower, Don't Throw down the pistol Throw down the pistol Throw down the pistol Throw down the pistol Second Brother Very good, you are very good This pistol is nice. I want to see it for real. You take three steps back Second brother, second brother Good, you are very obedient. I will spare your life. Just be 120% assured. You take three steps back. Brother, look! You can knock him down even with your bare hands. Didn't you see? Then come over here No no Since you, Hua, have surrendered to me You should kneel down and kowtow. We'll be a family from now on. Out of the valley Go back and live comfortably Kneel down Very easy As long as the legs are bent, kneel down Little Master Little Master You do good things Kill me now Daddy, you can't die. You can't leave Sheng'er behind Dad, you can't die. Sheng'er, I really feel like I'd rather die than live Didn't you see Not Dad Let me die with you. Little Master Master, you are so compassionate. Kill me now Why How can I beg for mercy from that old thief? How can I watch my daughter being insulted by him? Little Master, I scold you loudly You killed me Then the old thief won't blame you. Then the old thief won't blame you. If you don't turn back, little pervert Still imitating that old thief with blood knife You will not have a good death in the future The Blood Blade Sect will not die well You will not die well. You guys are fucking dead. Blood Blade Sect, you guys are going to die a horrible death Water Senior Water Senior I father You bastard, why don't you do it? Daddy Fourth brother, fourth brother Fourth brother, fourth brother The villain really ran out of energy. The villain really ran out of energy. If I had listened to you Kill him with one sword Why should I bow my head and beg for mercy? I made a mistake. This is the mistake. I am harming you, fourth brother. father father I want White Dragon I want White Dragon Sheng'er, look over there father You are so good, Dad. father Beat you to death I'll kill you. I'll kill you. I'll kill you to avenge my father. I'll kill you. I'll kill you. I'll kill you to avenge my father. Revenge for my father I'll kill you. I'll kill you. Beat you to death Revenge for my father I'll kill you, let me go Beat you to death Please loosen up. It was your father who asked me to kill him. Why are you hitting me? Little bastard, you My dear grandson, I am a little tired now. You keep an eye on this girl. Don't let her get mad She is yours anyway. How do you like to discipline her? Grandpa, you are welcome to do as you please. The old thief surnamed Hua You said I was exhausted Then how can I control her? The old senior has great magical powers I am just like a frog in a well. I just believed other people's lies. The old senior has such a deep inner strength It can no longer be described as unparalleled. That is indeed unprecedented. My disciple, kill this man now! My disciple, kill this man now! This man is very evil. Can't keep You promised to spare my life Do not kill those who surrender Why don't you keep your word? In the eyes of our disciples of the Blood Blade Sect When did you talk about faith? You kowtow to me and beg for mercy You were the one who fell for me. Good disciple grandson Smash his dog head with a stick This person is not dead. Once his acupuncture points are unlocked, it will be a big deal. He has been subdued by you, Grandpa Master. I don't think it makes any difference whether I kill him or not. Yeah yeah This young master said it well. I have given you uniforms No resistance at all Why do you have to kill me? Uncle Flower Uncle Flower You are also a well-known figure in the martial arts world. How can you be so shameless? These two masters are very skilled in martial arts. We can't beat them. It's better to surrender Follow them and obey them shameless My good disciple, kill him quickly! Little Master, your master is vicious and cruel At this moment, his true energy was dissipated and he could not move. That's why I asked you to kill me. If he recovers his inner strength You wrongly killed Shui Dai. I'll kill you in a moment. You might as well strike first. Besides the aftermath He is not my master. Because he saved my life So I can't kill him. He is not your master. Then hurry up and do it. The evil thieves of the Blood Knife Sect are vicious and cruel There's no mercy at all. Do you still want to live? You don't want to live We should also think about the people of the world. Execute the bandit leader I told you to stop nagging. You keep talking I will kill you Niece Shui, please don't fall asleep. Niece Shui, please don't fall asleep. Look, your father is alive. He is alive Daddy Daddy Daddy You woke up Which acupuncture point did the evil thief press on you just now? Actually, it doesn't matter if you hit the target. He has no strength left. I will teach you how to inhale and clear the acupuncture points I felt a numbness on my left shoulder. I can't move. That's a big hole. It's easy. You take a breath Focus your mind on Dantian and slowly let out this breath To impact the Dabao point under the left armpit After breaking open You can avenge your father's murder. good Okay, that's it. That's it. Good You try to sit up slowly. Don't rush Well, the acupuncture points have just been unlocked. Keep using my luck Impact acupuncture points Okay, that's it. Continue to use this method to impact the acupoints You try to stand up first Your every move now You must obey my orders Don't get the order wrong. Otherwise, it will be hard to avenge. first step You pick up the machete on the ground first The second step is to kill the little villain first Cut it quickly Kill that little villain first. That old villain won't move. Kill the little villain first If you kill the old villain first The little villain will fight you to death you Stop killing people. Look, I'll eliminate the rebels first and then kill the enemies. Water Niece Now is the best time to start. Pick up the blood knife quickly Hurry up and kill these two evil thieves! Cut it quickly! Revenge for your father is here No way The two of them are hugging each other now. I can't separate You are so confused. I told you to kill both of them. How can that be possible? He did it to save me. These two are evil thieves. Do you want to help the evil? You are a hero Then why did you just Don't fight this evil villain to the death If you have the ability, kill yourself My dear niece, you are back. Uncle Hua is confused. I asked you to kill both of them. It's also to avenge your father. This Blood Knife Patriarch died in your hands Spread the word You have become a heroine in the world. Stop talking You cut my back twice. Be careful not to hurt my grandson. What do you cut as I said? My knife is very sharp. You just need to slowly lower the knife and cut gently What's going on? Why did the Blood Knife Patriarch stick himself in the snow? Young master, you have extraordinary skills! The kick that just killed the Blood Knife Patriarch I'm afraid he has a strength of over a thousand pounds. Such chivalrous behavior This makes Hua admire me from the bottom of my heart. Stop talking nonsense. I'm not afraid that people will feel sick after listening to it. Blood Knife Patriarch is a great villain Everyone can punish him The young master sacrificed his relatives for the sake of justice and showed great integrity. Doubling is not easy It's so rare. You, you, I It was me who kicked him to death There is no doubt that if you don't believe it, Why not chop off his feet with a bloody knife first? Lift him up and check Prevent him from resurrecting Don't worry, I won't hurt you. You didn't have a knife just now Kill me and the Blood Knife Patriarch together I thank you Who wants you to thank?