[Music] has a history that is entwined with the musical city's music scene in ways that are still felt past, I knew I wanted Gibson to be part of its There's a street in Dublin called Capel there's a bar and music venue called Slattery's called The Earl Grattan, as it was called then. playing in this place. This guy entered the street walks by the first bar, Slattery's Gary Moore's As he walks down towards the other end of the playing his 1959 Gibson Les Paul. And the guy my father started the song at the same time, was walking down the street hearing two Gibson that possible? So when I found out about the guitar itself, I had to connect the family with Cesar in some one better placed than the CEO of Gibson Guitars this. I first found out about the guitar through Ireland. He gave me a call, as I was his client, being with this family in Dublin--Joe Stanton's in taking a look at the guitar, potentially and we started talking about this guitar, who then started sharing photographs with me. That instrument, you look at that flame pattern--it's kinds of wear in unique places that you wouldn't started looking at all these details, all that a lefty. All these different details made it so the back, the headstock, the fingerboard--he the binding. All these different details of this we were on to something with this. Joe was the living embodiment of the blues. the way the scenes would play, and he liked it would just keep clapping, you know, saying, &quot;Joe, you know? But I was really excited--Joe was a their personalities are. And Joe was just a feisty Joe. Because he was a left-handed player, the the controls--you'd always see his hand going up but he was altering the tones on the guitar, actually, that was one thing that kind of drew in school, particularly in the '60s when people the devil's people. You would think, because this &quot;How's this going to work?&quot; But when you get a Les make it work. Everyone calls him the left-handed Orphanage came together when Phil Lynott departed and form a new band, and he got together with obviously just looking to find the members for a my brother, Pat Quigley, who had the Movement. He in 1969, and he was free and looking for a and they needed a guitar player. So Pat and that was the beginning of Orphanage. The way I got to know Joe was that I fired the great Phil so we're still the best of friends. He told me he to put a band together called Orphanage. I can't road, but it didn't last that long--up to a year. band and create a new one. He told me it was going Joe and Pat stuck together, and Pat put together he wrote music, and in the '70s and '80s. I have like early songs. And yeah, he We used to go into Slat's Pub on C Street, and Dad in--my brother, my sister--and so it was always a full of life, and we just got on. We hit it off special guy. He was just great fun, and I ended up ensembles, let's say. Joe asked me to join him in residency in Slat's. So I joined Joe, and it was and the place was packed. In those days, I used to knew all the musicians in town. I'd hear somebody This chap--I can't remember his name--he had the brother Pat was in the band with Joe, and I told it's a sort of--you know, Les Pauls were like the the shop, and he actually loaned the money to Joe that's how it came about that Joe had it. I think happy with it--playing the guitar, using it as contemplated how much the guitar was worth. and he brought it, I can only imagine, to some tell as well. The value was not something I really knew--it was like he knew, he knew himself--it was that. It was just this instrument in the family from the '90s, mid-'90s onwards, starting You know, one of the cool things about Joe's 1969, this guitar has never circulated around part of this instrument. Most of the 1959 Bursts means they've been bought and sold over time. of Joe owning it since '69 and that being his makes it very, very special. That's something So my first thought was, &quot;This is, you know, Maybe one globally surfaces a year these days. So whole history of ownership and stories made I'm such a fan of these guitars, and I've got, these guitars. To see one that I was not familiar guitar needed work. There were a few things re-fretting it. As I started playing it the frets were entirely flat. So I took the did a number of things--re-fretting the guitar, Joe was a lefty, so in order to set up the had to be replaced. He also changed the tuners. [Music] we use our world-class technology to get every dimensions. Our scanning wand--we wave it all the body, any wear spot that's significant. program that. You know, after weeks we program profiles like the neck profile, that we want to record if we're going to make That guitar is more than just a guitar. the guitar. And when you play that or sometimes expressing through the guitar, as a collector, knowing the history of a guitar guitar special. One of the questions you might be I thought a lot about that. I spoke with Paul, I Burst. And the reason is pretty obvious--that the legacy of this instrument, this '59 Burst [Music] I remember we had the guitar--it was nobody home. I I just kind of played it a bit, just looked at it, it myself, just playing. It was very enjoyable. I guitar was going back to basically where it came lives on. Yeah, it's wonderful. The guitar is first place, and it's a great legacy to Joe's birthplace as such. He'd be very happy about that, side of the history of the guitar is keeping the to do that. I feel like I'm a custodian of that story and to let everybody know what this guitar did for music using this '59 Burst. All guitars sound of the '50s, '60s, and '70s. There's nothing story is going to be told, and that he's one of ever gets a chance to go home is always glad to back to its original home--I think that's kind of That's where it was born, that's where it's going will be able to see it much easier there. I'm [Music]