Did you know that AncestryDNA keeps changing your ethnicity estimate? Weird, right? It's not like your DNA is changing. So why is it that you're 40% Swedish when you take the test, but only 5% Swedish six months later? It can feel like they're making this up. In this video, I'm going to show you why your ethnicity estimate has changed over time, why it will change again, and what this means for your genealogy research. But to understand why AncestryDNA and others change your estimate, you need to know how they calculate it to begin with. An ethnicity estimate shows where your ancestors were centuries ago, but our DNA doesn't have little flags on it showing where it came from. What Ancestry, MyHeritage, and other companies use to figure it out is something called a reference panel. A reference panel is a group of people in a particular area who can trace their lineage back generations in that area. Ancestry has 88 panels representing areas around the globe. Ancestry compares the DNA of people in each panel to see what markers they have in common. Then they determine that people who have ancestors from this region tend to have this set of markers, but people with ancestors from this other region tend to have this other set of markers. To get your ethnicity estimate, or as Ancestry now calls it, your Ancestral Regions, Ancestry takes your DNA and looks at more than a thousand sections of it. Each of those sections is compared against the reference panels and is assigned to the one that it looks the most like. Ancestry adds it all up and gives you the percentages. That seems pretty straightforward. Boom! It's done! Except it isn't. When I took my Ancestry DNA test back in 2018, I was 45% Ireland-Scotland-Wales, 19% Scandinavian, and all the way down to 2% Europe South, which was basically Italy and Greece. Today, I'm 41% just Scotland, at most 6% Scandinavian, and Europe-South is completely gone. Goodbye, ancestral tour of Italy. So what the heck is going on? Think of an ethnicity estimate like an old map. Like this one from 1520. It's supposed to be part of North and South America. And you can see something that resembles Florida and the Caribbean, but I don't know what is going on up here. Obviously, North and South America didn't look like this in 1520. But this was the map maker's best interpretation of it based on the information that he had. As map makers gathered more information, they could make their maps much more accurate. It's the same with ethnicity estimates. As Ancestry and other companies increased their reference panels, they had more data to work with. And as technology and science advanced, they could better interpret all of that data. What was one region, Ireland-Scotland-Wales back in 2018, is now several different regions. This means that the ethnicity estimate or ancestral regions that you see today will in all likelihood change in the future. So what does all of this mean for your genealogy research? There are two things that trip up a lot of people when they try to apply their ethnicity estimates to their research. A person in one of my workshops was really puzzled that his ethnicity estimate showed more than 20% Italian. My ancestors weren't even from Italy. I've documented them and they're all German and Swiss. When Ancestry says that reference panels have ancestors from this region, they don't mean just grandpa and grandma were from there. They're talking generations. Ethnicity estimates reflect where the ancestors were a thousand years ago or more. So that ethnicity estimate can be different from a few generations that you've documented. You can see the other issue looking at this map of what AncestryDNA calls the Northern Italy region. Here is Switzerland. See the issue? Our ancestors' DNA didn't stop at the border. Since some of that man's ancestors were from present day Switzerland, it makes sense that some amount of Italian DNA would show up. On the other hand, there are a couple of ways that ethnicity estimates can help you in your research. Here are the ancestral regions of an adopted woman I'm helping, broken down by her parents. This feature is available on Ancestry if you have a regular membership or their AncestryDNA Plus subscription. I can see that all of her Irish comes from her father's side, which is something we didn't know before. The ethnicity estimate can also be useful if it shows something very unexpected, like a large percentage from a completely different part of the world than you expected. Now remember, these are just estimates. But if there is something that is looking wildly different, you might want to take a look at your matches and see if you can get it sorted out. Speaking of matches, you might be tempted to group your DNA matches based on shared ethnicity. Here are my ancestral regions broken down by parent. It would be pointless of me to try to group my matches based on who has England and Northwestern Europe since I get so much of it from each of my parents. There are much better tools for working through your AncestryDNA matches, including a feature that is part of Ancestry's Pro Tools package. It's been helping people break down some difficult DNA brick walls. Click on this video to see how you can apply it to your own DNA challenges.