Alex Gardels: Hello, hello, welcome, thank you all for I am the director of Studio B. program for you, and I'm going colleague, Nathalia Ramos to Nathalia Ramos: Thank you. Hi Institute, we like to say that idea whose time has come. But we have real impact, that idea we started Studio B, to bring scientists, the philosophers, greatest storytellers of our planetary scale transformation, important than ever. So thank now going to pass it over to our Nicolas Berggruen: good evening. Institute, thank you for being Nathalia, thank you Alex. Thank at the Berggruen Institute. And Joseph Levitt and Yuval Harari. Frankly, they don't need an who Joseph is. He is, in some is La Hollywood. He is a he's camera, and he's been engaged that we care about at the is, who are we becoming? Who do where we can, in theory, change ourselves through gene editing, one has maybe put this into And Yuval wrote a new book frankly, incredibly timely, been that we've created our narratives, and we've driven, we narratives. But now with AI, it driven beyond us, even though, we could lose control, if we lose the narrative that we are hear about it tonight, And thank Joseph Gordon-Levitt: everybody, did that feel like a movie all right, I'm really, really Nicholas and everyone at the am an enormous fan of this man's ladies and gentlemen, we here him. He's written a new book you about that tonight. Of tour. I'm sure you're talking. and maybe saying some of the I've never experienced that same things over and over again, killer heat released on Amazon to try to try to come at this some of the things you want to come at it from a perspective place. We're here in Los epicenter of the film and in film and television my entire about storytelling. I love to as an actor and a filmmaker. as more than a job. I connect to level, on who I am. And one is that storytelling is a big So one of the first things I book about humans called read Sapiens here? Yeah. So as the prehistory of what humans you think of that statement. If of what makes humans human, Yuval Noah Harari: Yeah, this is the source of our power. can cooperate in much larger And the secret of cooperation of can't get to know more than 100 story can be known to millions as long as everybody believes cooperate, they can agree on And maybe to just throw like if you think about the most famous portrait in history. So over 2000 years, more portraits probably of any other person in everywhere, in churches, in schools, in government countries. And 100% of these single one is authentic, because actually looked like there is made during his lifetime that earliest portrait we have is death, and it shows a man head of a donkey, because it was Christians who made fun of this itself, there is not a single like. There is one description about him, whether he was tall hair or bold or blonde, nothing, yet these fictions have enabled together, whether for good building hospitals and whatever, wars and launching inquisitions, religion is an easy example, but successful example is money. Joseph Gordon-Levitt: You're Yuval Noah Harari: It's just, objective value. You can't eat successful storytellers in the the Nobel Prize in Literature. Nobel Prize in economics. And about the United States today, holds this place together is the Republicans and Democrats can $1 everything else is like they Joseph Gordon-Levitt: So this found. Fascinating in the book only by the content of that that are connected by that and Democrats. You mentioned especially any story of any network. Can you say more? a new concept to me Yuval Noah Harari: again. I to understand history is not the wars, kings, but how information networks of information that example, we tend to think about two contrasting types of ethical They have different ideals, is true, but you can on a more at them as different information flows differently in a dictatorship is a network in to one hub where all the whereas democracy is a system in dictatorship is a centralized a distributed or decentralized information flows to the center, some decisions are being made, elsewhere, like if you look at century. So a lot of extremely here in Hollywood. And the Washington on what's happening debate, who influenced more? influencing Hollywood? Or vice there is no no debate. I mean, Stalin is telling Eisenstein debate. You do the wrong thing, do the right thing, you might difference in how information dictatorships. And I guess we'll biggest questions about AI is, contrasting types of information century, the US defeated the Centralized Information all information about the film industry, producing to Moscow, and there are some decisions. They couldn't do it. amount of information, and decisions. Whereas the States, it functioned much more you replace humans with AIs? much information. AIs become them with information. Again, don't know the answer, but there thought that argues that AI will systems more efficient, and the centralized system in the 20th advantage, which We even see, to realm that these huge high tech entire sections of the economy, have this kind of technology. Joseph Gordon-Levitt: I want to deeply fascinated with. I know a to get to what you just said Washington is making more think that we're important here just want to cover one of the found the most useful in your a few times as we talk tonight, of empowering and flattering. If the book that stories can even and you talk about three if you will, objective reality, subjective reality. Can you terms? Yeah, so. Yuval Noah Harari: Objective whether you believe in them or or not, if an asteroid. From towards us, about to hit Earth It exists whether people know viruses killed people, billions knew viruses exist. It doesn't not. They can kill you. This is subjective reality, which is person. It depends on the of a single person. So if you world feels this pain. Your you, Oh, there is nothing wrong pain, it's still there. This is intersubjective reality, this is as far as we know, for most of there were only objective and and stories were important for 10s of 1000s of years, at least, reality, inter subjective the interaction between many minds that they often exist on already mentioned some of them. important type of not objective. And dollar has no that you can eat it or drink it, you're if you're a billionaire, with I don't know, Bill a a deserted island inhabited only rats and whatever your dollars anything from the monkeys. You for you. You still have maybe on your on your smartphone to billion dollars in my bank or give me these bananas. I'll won't help. They are simply reality. Now, if you crash on a bananas, you can eat them. If Hummers, you can use them to try worthless thing to crash on a There's nothing to do with it. there, and they believe the same again, it's fragile. fragile because people can lose to gods that some gods were once intersubjective realities in the in them, and they are gone. And and it's going back, say to the see what might happen if some intersubjective reality and another one, like the Bitcoin. of religion in previous eras. just imagine trying to run a just reject the money of the better. Joseph Gordon-Levitt: So one of create an intersubjective television. And again, here we making Film and Television. I'm little bit. You don't talk about in your book, but because we're you about it. We're also, by the horse head scene was shot from yeah, the godfather. I'm curious historical perspective, how did compared to the technologies Do you think Yuval Noah Harari: so? Film and They are part of the package of and the changes were enormous. example, if you think about the most of history, large scale impossible. There was no way to because democracy is a a stone age tribe. Yeah, you between all tribe members. It's all come together and talk. But and bigger, it became more and everybody together to the town have a conversation. So we don't democracy in ancient times. All Rome or city states or even begin to see large scale modern era, with the rise of first the newspaper and then television and film, and when you begin to see large can use these technologies to time between millions of people, continents, and they all watch same TV series, the same movie connect in a way That was just the foundation of modern, large we'll get to that later. But the the present era, like social destabilizing democracy for this built on top of information hard to see why a major change create an earthquake in the it, which, which is democracy. that every technology is many totalitarian regimes are built were no totalitarian regimes in totalitarian regimes. that try to control everybody in the ancient world, you have but most of the time you know taxes and he directs the armies, life of every individual in basis, because this is simply at the same large scale as large scale democracy, technology. I mean the Soviets, time that Hollywood is flowering of the Soviet film masters, at least in the filmmaking, Eisenstein, yeah, technology to create a everybody from, you know, the would watch the same movies, and same narrative, the same center the Joseph Gordon-Levitt: Nazis were exactly. Lenny Riefenstahl, but that's the next place I film and television changed the changed the way that networks dominant media technology for sadly enough, that's not film such a great job, but the social media. So I'm curious to asked about film and TV with the that change, what networks could realities could be created, and thought, Yuval Noah Harari: well, it had think about the numbers. You hours every day on this. It is impact, and it creates new ways people, which again, has a it had positive influence, and talk a little about the positive about the negativities, but positive influence of social is from my own personal life. I ago in one of the first social Israel. And the thing about, for gay community is that over minorities. You have, again, in you have concentrated minorities minorities. So Jews, for minority, even if they say, in a the population, they are communities neighborhoods. So born into a Jewish family in a other Jews isn't a problem. though you're just 1% of the Joseph Gordon-Levitt: As an confirm that this is true, but Yuval Noah Harari: gay boy is family in a gay neighborhood, the 1970s and growing up in the very homophobic society like the anybody else? I mean, I didn't certainly not in my town. I saw and television. Like the first screen. Joseph Gordon-Levitt: What show Yuval Noah Harari: there was Being Served with? What's his Joseph Gordon-Levitt: I don't Yuval Noah Harari: Mr. film that I saw later in the director, I think lilies Lily, had a tremendous impact on my remember going to see this movie theater and telling myself, really, it's really it had a And but you know, you see some television, you can't reach out else in my town now sees the and feels the same as me. It's social media, the internet came, can interact suddenly through the, maybe the biggest hurdle suddenly becomes very, very Joseph Gordon-Levitt: All right, Yuval Noah Harari: the positive Joseph Gordon-Levitt: the Yuval Noah Harari: there are you may have noticed, we now information technology in each other anymore, and each other. I said earlier that the conversation is breaking every country has its own Republicans and Democrats can't anymore. And you have all these history and society and Brazil, it's the same thing. You thing. I even was in Canada two the same place. Literally, no, what's happening, and it's not today are much worse than they ideological divides in the 60s The issues like the civil rights the Vietnam War, the Cold War, till now, was much worse in riots and so forth. But hold the conversation, agree on the last elections and have is it breaking down all over the far that we know about is social information technology It's now creating an earthquake, quite well understood. I mean, understood. Unfortunately, now fail to fix it, but we at least is. Very important, because this impact of AI on history, because not by human beings. It's again, this is very interesting, which was automated was not taxi workers. It was media editors, ninth and 20th century, being an organization was an immensely the conversation, you decided about some of the most powerful began as editors. Lenin's only dictator, was editor of the Joseph Gordon-Levitt: I did not Yuval Noah Harari: Mussolini was of avanti, I think, what's name was promoted from editor of Joseph Gordon-Levitt: Mussolini know that. That's fascinating, Yuval Noah Harari: know, if you Jean Paul Mara shaped the French newspaper of Paris in those of the people. And now this job that who is the editor of the editor of Tiktok, who is the and non human intelligence. And they were given by their human goal, increase, user engagement. engaged, no, and the reason was The more time people are engaged Twitter, the more time they they share and so forth, the them, and the more data you can to a third party or use it to algorithms and AIs. So the media try to keep people glued possible, and this was the task places increase user engagement, on millions, actually billions, made a discovery which was philosophers and politicians AIS discovered it also that the engagement is outrage or greed the greed button or the hate human's mind, you grab their the screen. And this is what information market with more and with fake news and conspiracy broke down. And this was very, like, you know, long before primitive compared to what's people talk about, you know, AIS, it's not in the future. look at the impact of these very over the world, on societies all early to worry about the impact ways. Joseph Gordon-Levitt: One thing you're saying with is that it is put it, sort of discovered that engagement was outrage, fear, harder to describe with language that exactly that I don't think. Yuval Noah Harari: they are not algorithm Joseph Gordon-Levitt: is not greed, there's greed, there's put more hate and greed in the just a cold and dumb pattern enough. Fair enough. Well, dumb to cold and smart. We've we've talked about social media. coming next. We all, I think, very beginning of some very big furious our way because of the known as AI. I want to through many different things about AI, down to again, because we're conversation through the lens of do you think AI will change to be? Yuval Noah Harari: Well, as we the most powerful technologies story of Jesus or whether it's really the foundation of human Everything else is built on top years, the only entities on this stories, either create new interpret old stories, where mind, was capable of doing it. another entity which is capable and ultimately creating stories. yet, at least as far as we know don't need consciousness to do intelligence. Intelligence and things. Intelligence is the solve problems. Consciousness is and pleasure, love and hate. We humans and also in other mammals intelligence go together. We feelings, but AI and computers, as we know, they have no anything, but they are highly fields. And then, if you think ability of AIS to compose create images and create music people say, yes, it's still not it's already better than many than the average human, even. It's nothing. It's just 10 years we haven't seen anything yet. story composed by AI, what say, oh, it's not good because but it's really a story. It's ideas motifs. It's not just some that it just strings words bits and pieces of sentences together. No, there is actually it's not as good as the best will it be in 2034 or 44 and mythological stories or poems or is also a story. So these things financial devices also they want creative things of all, if you you know, think money, checks, extremely creative, and they are to see new financial devices intelligence. And you know, for cocooned inside a human culture, these stories and artifacts that from the holy books that the Vedas to the songs in the music and the artifacts, the chair, cultural. Kun made by humans. to the question, is it good? Is leave aside for a moment to the would it mean for human beings a large extent by an alien sense that it's coming from that it creates in a very mind. And this, I think, is the facing, certainly in Hollywood, epicenter of human storytelling, Joseph Gordon-Levitt: So here is the book that I don't think I would love to, I would love to Yeah, describing AI as alien talking about an alien from you also in the book, even do perhaps this is, these are some kind of new gods. So I tend technology in terms, like alien deification of these computer story could do more harm than why, but before I get to them, I asking so you you very book, to to describe this god. Tell me about your thought describe the technology in those Yuval Noah Harari: mean, it's you present it to the public? lot of thought. Is it a good PR results? And one reason I chose because I see too much of the the idea that AI is trying to and at the very definition what computers are somehow equivalent completely misleading. I very progressing towards human level are not trying to reach bird just doing their own thing, from birds. And that's also what is they are doing their own completely different from the this is one reason that I chose Joseph Gordon-Levitt: think find it counterproductive. When of terms, it's, is it intelligence? They throw around general intelligence, and they approaches human level think that's helpful either. why I am concerned with sort of personifying it or little bit about how the tech obviously not an engineer, but The way that these models are of data, they input that data black box that they frankly and it spits out outputs of data come from that was input humans. Humans generated that describing it as alien or from separate from humans. It reality of how these models way, I think a lot of these tech them. CEO of stability is in the what are they called? Sanitized appreciate, actually getting the they're using to train these these labs, they're not doing stealing a bunch of data from I think, own the data that they disclosing what data went into asked, they won't say they're because of this. To me, this is absolutely need to solve as soon reasons. I want to get into. One We in the film and television maybe first. But I don't think think so many industries, architects, designers, logistics at a computer, and once there's doing almost any work is going threatened. And these tech say, Oh, well, we invented a when, in reality, what they did crunched up the numbers, and the human generated data. Their no value at all. And so one of technology in terms of gods or personifies it or turns it into that exists independently of the that it helps these tech products really come from, and humans. Yuval Noah Harari: So I agree. I issue is whether we focus on the completely agree with what you you know, AI is basically eating we've produced over 10s of 1000s cave paintings of 10s of 1000s today, we've produced this artifacts and habits, and now AI few months or years. And you're, correct that the business model based on kind of this trick that information works differently universe. And I think this goes insightful book, surveillance explains that, you know, for basic principle, don't steal, and says, Yes, don't steal, but That's different. That's a things about. No, it's not reaction should be, what? Why is And here, I completely agree using this kind of terminology, actually helping this way of about the kind of alien nature mainly about the output, because familiar things, but it then are different, at least in some was put into it. And this, this copy, glorified copy paste, that music and just takes something there, and puts it together. And, no, it's really more than this is also what humans do. And writing books. So I do the same books and articles, and I talk something from here and together, and then here is a new music. I mean, nobody starts musician, listens to previous but without the previous input, Joseph Gordon-Levitt: It's true. thought, but I want to respond Yuval Noah Harari: and I think what we are facing in the AI humanizing it too much is that the challenge that we think, Oh, together our creations. It won't new. No, it can create really religions, it can create could be good, could be bad, but in a really radically different Joseph Gordon-Levitt: I do agree underestimate the challenge. One first of all, I agree with you amalgamation of your influences. to write Romeo and Juliet and is actually not the first Wizard a big fan. I the creative record was all about remix and work, and let's privilege because we're all original human think we're all original human same way of thinking to a personifying the AI. And I think question we confront as we go afford moral standing and legal systems? There are going to be especially because very soon, a love with these computer people who are spending hours talking to and interacting with lovers, etc. That's only going absolutely. And I think those excluding myself, who knows? I them. I think it's going to be going to get really emotionally that we interact with. And I natural to start talking about rights. And I'm quite concerned it could be very perilous that those rights could go hand in dystopian outcomes that you Yuval Noah Harari: Yeah, I think one of the major, major see is that it will be able to with human beings. I don't also sexual, but intimate. Oh, Joseph Gordon-Levitt: Not all Yuval Noah Harari: some, and beginning to happen. It will be over the world, whether you know is no way to prove that anyone personhood and legal rights entity is conscious. capacity to suffer, and rights suffer. So if you think about if they can suffer, so they can distress, so maybe they don't humans, but there at least is an whereas there is no debate about throw this chair into a fire, so against the human owner of the chair, because the chair can't proof that anybody has to suffer, and we've known it rights is really a matter of agrees that all humans are agrees that dogs, because we They should have rights, but Joseph Gordon-Levitt: shouldn't exactly. And Yuval Noah Harari: as humans develop relationships with them, there'll be huge pressures to maybe one also of even world could be between countries with rights and countries that different attitude to human And interestingly enough, if you is closest to recognizing AIS as because the legal path is wide countries in the world where the person is open. And this is corporations are recognized by have rights, like freedom of what was it in 2010 now, until corporations are persons with because every decision of the made by some human executive or Google is a legal person in the decision of Google has to be what happens if you incorporate today, you don't need any new books already. According to US and it's now a legal person with But unlike Google, this AI can actually take action in the fi movie for the people in the Joseph Gordon-Levitt: That was go. So Yuval Noah Harari: you have an person. It can open a bank goes on one of these websites hire persons online to do jobs money, and then it takes its stock exchange. And it does very super intelligent, and finance AIS, you know, self driving you have to deal with physical year, Elon Musk and others everything is self driving cars. difficult, it's messy. Finance mathematical world. It's just playground for AI. So this AI it, and becomes the richest person in the US is not a human the things granted to AIS, decision in citizen united under political donations. So the AI dollars to politicians in advancing AI rights. This, the in the US is wide open. Joseph Gordon-Levitt: I think screenwriters here tonight who I that story. We're running out of day. I'm so grateful to have had thought maybe you could leave us group of Hollywood storytellers film and television who are of influence in this world. What the messages that you would have stories? Yuval Noah Harari: Explain Joseph Gordon-Levitt: Explain good movie. We Yuval Noah Harari: do not have and that's a very, very big are based on bureaucratic armies. And as you said, material for stories, and this development in evolution. I mean stories from theaters ancient. Hollywood is really taken you're Like, think about how, like, you two males fighting over a and porcupines do it, and know, it wasn't invented in back 10s of millions of years in about sibling rivalry like who does the Father loves most? peoples, nations like the Jewish Father loves us more than any of this story wasn't invented in 10s of millions of years, goes most of the birds and even some story of evolution, sibling fighting for the love of their there because bureaucracy ago in ancient Mesopotamia for invention of writing, and we evolutionary preparation for systems. There are no love are no sibling rivalry. A does father love more? And are not good for user extremely important to really function. And this has been the years that you have. Artists are these mythological stories and mostly taken from evolution. about bureaucracy. Here and Big Short, or Yes, Prime british series, there are some was the last time you saw a big accountant that doesn't turn something. They are staying an and they fight the bad guys by have to fill in and discovering that. Not a lot of movies like society functions, and linking big service in alerting humans long before anybody else talked Terminator and matrix and but that Hollywood did, which is it in the wrong way. It was mostly the day the robots and computers rebel against us, and robots people, and this is not likely because people saw it in the from AI, and it's not coming there. So people feel who develop the technology, nowhere. It's not in the not the big robot rebellion. The millions of AI bureaucrats about us, from whether to give our house, and to understand a much better understanding of not, of course, it's not only not being able to understand that sometimes the bureaucracy we can, we can't understand it, that human modern societies bureaucracies, but people are and fall easy prey to conspiracy and so forth, because they just budgets function. And we need screenwriters, from movie about mythology and about really need help with function. Joseph Gordon-Levitt: Wow, you know you can do it. We can do more question, Nexus, the book pessimism in it, and this lot of fair reasons to be something that makes you Yuval Noah Harari: just as AI is so humans are also nowhere near if you know, if for every dollar developing AI will also develop developing ourselves, our minds, that, you know, in many ways, humans and put all their chips, know, you talk to the people who they realize this, is this they realize that humans need but they can't slow down. You go next, and they tell you, we can't, because we can't trust whether the other corporations somebody else on the other side very, very strange situation, AI revolution is the inability And here comes the most ironic you ask the same people, okay, you can't trust the other trust the AIS that you're So the same people who can't they say they will be able to explanation, to some extent, 1000s of years of experience trust them. We don't have an maybe they could be trusted. And the opposite. We have 1000s of and during those 1000s of years, human trust tremendously. You live in tiny bands. They can in their band, and that's it, a strangers and foreigners in over these large networks, which are just on information, but on the money, the bureaucracies, between you know you're going on more strangers that people in their lives, and in 99% of the on these people for our food, defense. We have not reached a ways, we trust billions of other food and with our basic that we have 1000s of years of to be trusted, just the no experience. So it's in it's a despair of the humans and put Joseph Gordon-Levitt: Well, on trust in you, Yuval and all of here. Thank you for the night. You