go to video settings to select your preferred subtitle language - [Narrator] We're in This is where we're sent In order to go to North Korea, we have to sign up through an in one of the most restricted To be eligible to participate, it is obligatory to complete this form and accept a whole list of restrictions. Some of which are completely absurd. Entering the country with Wearing a t-shirt with political or obscene slogans is forbidden. Bringing books in Korean or And above all, it is We've had to become invisible online before we sent our request. We are flying with Air Koryo, the North Korean state-owned airline. No foreign newspapers are available, only the official press Kim Jong-un's latest missile tests. There are no blockbusters on the screens. Just propaganda videos on a loop. After an hour and a half, The capital of a closed country, led by a 34 year old dictator who's been terrifying the Already, our camera is causing problems. - Yes? Please don't take pictures. - [Journalist] Okay, okay. (gentle music) - [Narrator] We are part of All nationalities are who are the regime's worst enemies. Through the window, we discover Kim Jong-un has not only built missiles, modern skyscrapers have also appeared. For 10 days we will be There is no question of Our trip will be monitored very closely. - The regulation is do not taking photos of military or military installations. Number two is if you have and then please keep it don't throw out and don't drop it. If you do not, it's kind of the final thing is the far away from the hotel So it's forbidden. - [Narrator] We arrive at our hotel, the only one to welcome foreign tourists, to find our first surprise. - [Narrator] Every year, visit North Korea. But the authorities have become It was during an organized that the American student, Otto Warmbier, was arrested in January 2016, accused of stealing a propaganda poster from this same hotel. Two months later, he appeared, terrorized, head down, in court. A trial worthy of Stalin, in front of the cameras. (sniffling) - I entirely beg you, of the DPR Korea for your forgiveness. Please. I have made the worst mistake of my life. (clock ticking) - [Narrator] Otto Warmbier to the United States, but in a coma. North Korean authorities claim a rare disease, while in prison. His parents accuse his The autopsy was inconclusive and his death remains a mystery. What we do know, however, the guides who were accompanying him, which could have led to his arrest. - [Narrator] It's impossible to know what is on the mysterious 5th floor. But we have been warned would put us in danger. It's the country full of North Korea is one of the most savage dictatorships in the world. Its leader, Kim Jong-un, who is both mysterious and whimsical. He cultivates a certain and never gives any interviews. But he feeds his people with Since he arrived in power five years ago, his country has never been so close to becoming a nuclear power. Nothing can stop him. Not even Donald Trump. - If it is forced to defend we will have no choice but to Rocket Man is on a suicide - [Narrator] During our what the regime wants to show foreigners. Gigantic monuments glorifying And a society obeying orders. (speaking foreign language) An undercover report to get the camera out. - [Narrator] We will plunge into a country that is drowning in propaganda, where everything is done to (speaking foreign language) - We succeeded in launching the H bomb and we will defend our - [Narrator] The inhabitants Kim Jong-un's missiles The target, the great American Satan. - So there's two today? - There's two today. The U.S. Army is our biggest enemy. - [Narrator] Here they in the streets, in the countryside. - [Children In Unison] Yes! - [Narrator] And even - [Narrator] We also went to the place where Kim Jong-un grew up, in Switzerland where nobody knew his true identity. - There were one or two guys sometimes, following him or you know, but we thought, okay, maybe Now-a-days we think, his bodyguards maybe. - [Narrator] Finally, we where Kim Jong-un most likely ordered the assassination of his own brother. - It definitely took a And it's not something The execution has to be And I think the execution was perfect. - [Narrator] Journey The number one enemy of - [Woman] Do you consider - Of course not. He is very smart, realistic. Extremely pragmatic person. And probably the greatest Machiavellian currently in decoration. (dramatic music) (solemn music) - [Narrator] In December 2011, after the death of Kim Jong Il, the man who had led the world discovered the man he had chosen as his successor, his A chubby young man, 28 years old, who cried in front of his father's body. (crowd sobbing) State television captured the distress of the North Korean people. (crowd screaming) In the snow, hundreds of thousands of people cried and wailed. Outrageous scenes of grief, filmed close up by cameras of the regime. Kim Jong-un accompanied the hearse with the highest That day, many underestimated him. They thought he was too young, and undoubtedly too weak to take power. But the new dictator would Andrei Lankov is one of the world's leading experts in North Korea. He has written many his father and his grandfather. - You have the coffin and Eight people who are Kim Jong-un is number It's his uncle, Jang Song-thaek. At the time, the single most important, most influential official in the country. For about a year, he was to remain Kim Jung-un's closest advisor. Then, during a cabinet meeting, the secret police broke in, actually arrested him And next day, the main that he was a traitor and was executed. - [Narrator] Kim Jong-un In the following months, he eliminated all of the most powerful - Kim Jung-un and seven people. Of these people, five were to disappear or lose their jobs. Two of them are known to be dead. The fate of the remaining but they are almost It's cruel, yes. But if you look at pre-modern monarchy, you will see a lot of similar situations. It's very dangerous to be an advisor or regent to a young king. (people cheering) - [Narrator] The country bows down. Kim Jong-un showed that he would go to any lengths to stay in power. And with propaganda that played scenes of soldiers overjoyed at Un sent a message: it was (festive music) (gentle music) The first step in a trip to North Korea is to pay tribute to the Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il, of the current leader, Kim Jong-un. Every day, thousands of before the huge statues in their image. They were built after their deaths. We have to buy flowers and place them in front of the monuments. It is obligatory for tourists. However, we are forbidden We film discreetly. - You can lay flowers. Off your sunglasses. Lay flower and come back to the line. You get one bow. - [Narrator] After we have bowed, we were allowed to film the statues. But again, there are Several guides accompany (indistinct chatter and laughing) Mr. Kang, their head, of the great leaders are not cut off, as this, according to him, - [Mr. Kang] Ah. Okay. Like that? Okay. - [Guide] The statue During their lifetime Kim Il Sung is taller than general. So the statue is different. - Very hard to see. is a base of three meters long or total of 23 meters. - After, they would make - No, no, no. - [Guide] Now we go statue - Why? he doesn't like it. - He doesn't like statues? - [Guide] He doesn't like - Okay. Why, you do know why? - [Guide] Because he's really humble. - [Man] Okay. - [Guide] He likes normal life. - [Narrator] Kim Jong-un, The next part of the visit In a neighboring bookstore, there are shelves filled with his books. In every language. At the age of 34, in addition Kim Jong-un, has already taken the time to write a dozen books. - [Narrator] As well as the Every one, a song to the - [Narrator] Kim Jong-un, like his father and grandfather before him, is entitled to the daily The great leader is also a great horseman. He also drives a tank, a submarine, and an airliner. - [Narrator] Kim Jong-un is A man who makes children And women cry with love. Un, a demigod worshiped by his people. However, everything led would be different from He was educated partly in Kim Jong-un's childhood He was born in 1983, though Here he is with his the second wife of his As a teenager he was sent at the other end of the earth in the small town of The country is one of the few to maintain diplomatic Moreover, the education there - This morning I read newspapers and on the first page you can see is my friend that I used And this was the exact he was walking around, so... - [Narrator] Nikola from first year of the local high school. - He wasn't really special in any way. He used to run around. He used to be very open actually. I do remember him talking - [Narrator] At the time, only that they were housing Un moved to the country Here is their entry The three children kept the first names, but their surname, Kim, So Kim Jong-un was called Pak Houn. His true identity was never Even his friends didn't suspect anything. - I remember the first time I saw him. They were mentioning that we and he's apparently from North Korea. And I do exactly remember they told me he's the son of the ambassador. - [Narrator] Later, the Swiss ordered an anthropometric of the young boy and the current dictator. There's no doubt that it's the same man, a few years older and a few kilos heavier. In Switzerland, he could Even if his life didn't always resemble that of an ambassador's son. - There were one or two guys, sometimes following him or you know. But we thought, okay, maybe We were not really even We just kind of accepted them, they were sometimes joining Now-a-days we think, his bodyguards, maybe. So, right now we are at the exact place where Un used to live. That was his apartment. So this was his entrance, so he used to walk in and - [Narrator] The apartment Photos of the interior have been released. This is where the young Kim Jong-un lived. Nothing luxurious for the but the teenager did have some privileges. - He was, by that I really He was having his apartment was maybe for his workers or help, you know people that used to care for him. He was having cooks or maybe other people who used to serve him even, maybe. He was having a room filled where Michael Jordan shirts or you know, the original NBA basketball was inside. NBA is maybe, was back in the United States, right? So I think... Un cannot like NBA and hate, or not like the United - [Narrator] After two years Un disappeared overnight. Repatriated to his homeland. It would seem that he from the democracy lessons on On the other hand, he returned passionate about Western culture. And it showed. (applauding) In July 2012, a few months Un appeared as his father He attends a concert in Pyongyang, In North Korea, the first ladies had always remained invisible until then. (&quot;Gonna Fly Now&quot;) On stage, the orchestra plays In the background, images crushing his Soviet enemy. The highlight of the show: Mickey, Minnie, the seven dwarves and Winnie the Pooh. Symbols that couldn't be more American. (audience applauds) - [Narrator] Two years his passion for U.S. basketball. He invites Dennis Rodman, the NBA star, to Pyongyang for his birthday. Happy birthday to you Happy birthday, dear marshal Happy birthday to you (audience applauds) - [Narrator] As well as basketball, other souvenirs of his Under his rule, North Korea changed. He introduced some economic liberalization which brought money into the country. In Pyongyang, modern buildings were built. American-style towers now overlook the statues of the great leaders. Kim Jong-un also unveiled some typically Swiss And other entertainment venues. (cheerful music) - [Narrator] Theme parks have opened and also amusement arcades, bowling alleys and bars. Even if it is only the Our guides are proud to show us that life is happy in their country. But it is impossible really looks like for North Koreans. We are forbidden from talking to them. Okay. (upbeat drum music) - [Narrator] To find out the dances and the outward smiles, we have to go to a neighboring country. Where speaking isn't a crime. We're in Seoul, the capital of North Korea, South Korea. In the country, there who've fled the neighboring dictatorship to seek refuge here. - [Narrator] Choi Soo Yang, 26, secretly left Pyongyang in 2014, two years after Kim Jong-un took power. She tells us that nothing has changed. She has taken part in that report on life in the North. On the air, along with the hosts, she mocks Kim Jong-un's politics. - [Narrator] In Seoul, Soo Yang discovered an environment she'd never dreamed of, a world which is highly-connected instead of cut off from everything. (singing in foreign language) - [Narrator] In the of extremely rich individuals Just one injustice among so many others. However, Soo Yang believed in Kim Jong-un. His signs of openness and let her dream of big changes to come. A dream which didn't last. - [Narrator] Kim Jong-un eliminates anyone who gets in his way. In North Korea and even abroad. Borders don't get in the way We are in Kuala Lumpur, It was here that one of the of recent years took place. Kim Jong-un is reported to have had his own brother, Kim Jong Nam, killed. Nam was the first son However, it wasn't him who (dramatic music) In 2003, he was exiled for trying to enter Japan After that, he lived On the 13th of February last year, he was getting ready to take a flight at the international airport. He can be seen on these in a gray suit jacket The journalist, Timothy - He looked like he was a traveler, any normal traveler When he looks up at the board, It's probably about 10 and then he heads over to the the self check-in. (solemn music) He came to this counter, to check in for his flight. And as he was checking so he didn't know what Doan, the Vietnamese girl, and she went over his head from the back and pushed the glove to his head. Then you can see him doing a double-take, like he moved back a bit. And there's the other girl, Siti Aisyah, from the side to distract him. While this was all going on and then coolly, Siti and Huong went off that way. (solemn music) - [Narrator] The scene is Here we can see the young woman who runs her hand over Then her and her companion According to the journalist, that day the two women weren't alone. - Only, allegedly, there sitting at that cafe right there. They must have been sitting at that table, as you can see that It was reported and is alleged that they were sitting and then immediately after it happened they had gotten up and left. - [Narrator] Kim Jong Nam that he's been poisoned. The chemical doesn't act immediately and after the attack, he The doctors later discover VX nerve agent, an extremely A single dose and death is certain. Worried, Kim Jong Nam goes straight away to an information desk. He is then taken to the police. On these images, we see The policemen take him to He starts to feel unwell. A passerby takes this photo of him. He is lying on a stretcher He dies in the ambulance. - It definitely took a And it's not something It's a lot of planning, the execution has to be And I think the execution was perfect. - [Narrator] For this perfect to North Korea which is to possess the VX poison. The four men who were watching the scene managed to get away. But the two women who carried One of them chose a big-shot Malay lawyer to defend her, Dato' Naran Singh. He claims it's all a plot, assuring that his client does not have the profile of a professional killer. - She is a very pretty woman, you know. Anybody would be cover acting like this. And then, she is very outgoing. Outgoing, very outgoing lady. - [Journalist] She was on TV? - Yeah, yeah, she has been. Several shows in Vietnam. - [Journalist] So she - Yeah, any woman. - [Narrator] Slightly from the lawyer, but according to him, this explains that the young woman didn't know what she was doing. - What happened, they started And she was invited to come to Malaysia to do this video pranks. That was the reason she was here. One other thing she did that day was to get a shooting, for a prank video. There was seven people who were with her, who directed her to go and do this act. And she's merely innocent That's what we are looking at. - [Narrator] The young woman had been trained for several months, carrying out real hidden camera stunts. It's going to be hard of such an unlikely story. They both risk the death penalty. Regardless of their fate, everything points to Kim Jong-un being the person who In the center of Kuala Lumpur, we have a meeting with Axel Hwang, a friend of the victim. According to him, Nam - He always sit here. Wife sit here. So he like here because there glass here. Okay, glass protect. And then the security, two bodyguards, always sitting here. - [Narrator] He was always However, the day of his This is not surprising for his friend. - The bodies of this I have to talk to them. Kim Nam was a very good until Jang Song-Taek was alive. - [Narrator] Remember Kim Jong-un's uncle? The one he had assassinated - Jang Song-Taek was after that, all the you know, supply is stopped. So he got some suffering for the money. Financial problems. - [Narrator] No more money Kim Jong Nam became an easy target. Yet he still criticized his brother and the regime in Pyongyang. According to his friend, - In 2012, already Kim no doubt already, trying In North Korea, internally Kim Jong-un have one big problem is Kim Jong Nam because his blood is not original blood. You understand? So, Kim Il Sung here, Kim Jong Il here, but next one is who? Kim Jong Nam. Why? Because elder son, elder son. That's why he finally, - [Narrator] After the Kim Jong-un laid low. From then on, he was the only one left with claim to the Kim legacy. At the same time, the from his enemies outside and developing his nuclear weapons. Nobody can touch him, in propaganda clips like these, broadcast on state television. (explosion booms) During our visit, the regime This military success Newspapers are shown, behind On the front page that day, the regime is threatening its enemies, South Korea and the United - [Narrator] Our guides We take roads which are completely empty. Sometimes we see large blocks of stone, intended to block tanks Our destination for the day is a farm. - It has 1,857 farmers here. The total population of this and also it has over 1,000 families. - [Narrator] Inside the farm is a statue depicting the abundance of the country. It was built in 1997, during a famine that caused hundreds of thousands - [Narrator] During our the workers close up. Everything is done so we don't meet. - [Journalist] This is a farm, (laughing) - [Guide] It's too hot, - [Journalist] Okay, okay. - [Narrator] We can't see the farmers. On the other hand, we can hear what is broadcast all that are placed all around the farm. (speaking foreign language) - [Journalist] What are - We succeeded in launching the H bomb. New kind of H bomb. So, we will produce more developed H bomb and we will defend our Or something like that. - [Narrator] The missiles are everywhere. At the farm but also at the - [Narrator] It's the same - Our school is well-known throughout the country as number one. We've done a lot of things to realize as we've shown here of the demands and agreement of the This is where we have the camera system. We have made all classrooms We are directing and For example, as you also can see, how many children are absent today here and those who are not in their classrooms. - [Narrator] In this school, are closely watched, we are shown a model of education, Kim Jong-un-style. The children who play Perfectly at table tennis. Little girls who perfectly master their dance steps or gymnastics. - [Children In Unison] Yes! - [Narrator] And who sing, with a smile, in their English lessons. Touch your head Touch your head Touch your hand Touch your hand Touch your leg Touch your leg - [Narrator] The highlight of the visit: the show by the children in class and at sports, but also in music. (gentle music) (cheerful music) (soft music) (singing in foreign language) (cheering and applauding) - [Narrator] But behind the smiles which never leave the children's lips, the propaganda is always present. It's a young boy's turn - [Narrator] The great leader at the heart of their education. Even in the science classroom. - [Guide] This at the middle school, our school children are learning These two places show the places where the satellites were launched. Man-made satellites for weather. - [Narrator] Weather like Kim Jong-un's missiles. In the corridors, the posters are less ambiguous, always missiles. - [Narrator] And the children's education goes beyond the confines of the school. Later, we are taken to visit one of the most popular The Museum of American War A huge building built at in 2015 to pay tribute to the victims of a massacre during the Korean War, which let to a total of of which two million were civilians, from the North and the South. As usual, everything is done so that we do not meet any North Koreans. Our guides wait for local visitors to come out of the museum before we go in. - The Marshal Kim Jong-un said, we don't have to forget all of our peoples misery in life at that time. So we have to renovate and the new generation have to know that, of our peoples miserable and then the U.S. army's brutal behavior. - [Narrator] The museum attacked the population of the region for nearly two months in 1950. According to the North Koreans, over 35,000 people were killed. However, according to if there was indeed a massacre, we do not know the nor who was responsible for the killings. It's impossible to know if the facts reported here are accurate. The photos, paintings and reconstructions spare no gory details. Everything is accompanied and the cries of children - They hold back the lady's two hands and they put the stick, wooden They loose dogs to bite people. How brutal they are, and then they pour gasoline to her body and they set the fire. The U.S. army, they bind of the newborn baby. And they use, as a football. And they kill them. - [Journalist] Do the - Yeah, children, primary, - [Journalist] That's very harsh and powerful pictures for our children. - Even children, you know, they're... When they see that picture, they say, we will always fight Should we move? - [Narrator] Visiting for all school children in the country, from the age of nursery school. The United States accuse North Korea of spreading propaganda According to Washington, the accusations against the We ask our guide. - [Journalist] Did the United States recognize this massacre? - [Narrator] She does not - Ok, question. What about you think of all these scenes? Is it real, you think it's real? Or is this liar, it's What do you think? - [Journalist] And what - My opinion, I hate them. - Today, still today? - Still today. They are still U.S. army. You know, U.S. army is our - [Narrator] We leave the museum but our guides want to - It rains because of sadness of Koreans. Yeah? We are now going to the DMZ now, the military demarcation line. In the Korean peninsula, 10 million people are separated in two, North and South. So today, we are here, very It is the symbol of our national tragedy, so the rain is coming because it's crying, the sky is crying. - [Narrator] The DMZ is between the North and South. An armistice was signed in 1953 but the two countries are An estimated 700,000 North Korean soldiers are gathered at the border. Faced with 400,000 South Koreans, assisted by approximately - [Journalist] They're American soldiers. - [Man] Yes sir. You're an American, no? - [Guide] Enemies! - [Journalist] What is your feeling to see American soldiers here? - [Woman] Really to revenge them. - [Journalist] Revenge them? - [Narrator] We're taken to the room where the armistice was signed. But the language is far from peaceful. - If the U.S. provoke Korean war again, then we will smash them nobody sign on the surrender document. - [Narrator] And from their perspective, who better than Marshal Kim His portrait, as a military - Right now, they are doing military exercises in - [Journalist] So are - Never. - Because our military We have the nuclear, we have H bomb, we have all kinds of military service. You know, weapons. So we are never scared. Our people want to fight against U.S. - [Narrator] Is Kim Jong-un really ready to start a war with the Americans? We return to the other side to meet with Andrei Lankov, who knows the story of He is in no doubt that the young dictator is just applying a calculated - [Woman] Do you consider - Of course not. He is a very smart, realistic, extremely pragmatic person. Probably the greatest Machiavellian currently in decoration. To studyists, he is a survivor. He is a master of survival. He saw what has happened which the United States breaked it together. I'm talking about Libya. I'm talking about Iraq. I'm talking about Taliban Afghanistan. He doesn't want to go that way and he understands that the is to keep nuclear weapons. Because he assumes that no country would ever attack a nuclear North Korea. - [Narrator] According to Andrei Lankov, Kim Jong-un would be unstoppable. No more resistance, either Even so, some still try to fight him. An hour and a half from Seoul, we have a meeting with Lee Min-bok. He's a North Korean refugee. He escaped to South Korea He tells us that it was a leaflet against the Pyongyang regime - [Narrator] Mr. Lee is one There is a price on his head. - [Narrator] In the bags are Pages of the Bible which are and anti-Kim Jong-un films on USB keys. Two men are with him, from - [Narrator] After two hours on the road, we reach our destination, North Korea is within - [Narrator] His wife helps The mechanism is simple: is linked to an alarm clock. When it goes off, the bag opens. - [Narrator] Lee Min-bok His work is financed by an The wind carries them over North Korea. - [Narrator] It's hard to know what impact these balloons have on the Most likely, it's fairly it is very dangerous to be of the border with a tract It's the last day of (people cheering) - [Narrator] During our whole we have only seen any North Everything is organized between them and us, the foreigners. They're not allowed to leave the country and they can't communicate - Is it possible to send email. - Send email, possible. - Yeah, where is it? - Which country? - France. - France? - [Narrator] We film discreetly. - For my mom. Okay, I have to? - Country name. - Okay, France? - [Narrator] The internet network is practically non-existent Around 0.5% of the population have access and only the richest But it is still being monitored. - [Journalist] So there is internet here? - Eh, nothing. - Nothing? (speaking foreign language) - Not Google. - Google, no? Google, no? - Okay, okay. Okay, can I? I can? - [Woman] Okay. - [Narrator] A simple email, scrutinized by the hotel employee. - [Narrator] The text will be read before being sent, no doubt. - Send, no? - [Woman] I send. - You send. - [Man] And it's okay? - Okay. (speaking foreign language) - I send. - [Narrator] And the huge don't even have access to the outside world. (singing in foreign language) Today is a national holiday. Dances are organized Our guides take us to where the biggest event is to take place. To get there we take the subway where we are allowed to that we don't speak to anyone. We can only briefly see the North Koreans who are submerged in propaganda. Posters to the glory of the party. Portraits of the great In the carriages. And even on the pins that nearly (singing in foreign language) The grand finale of the day, and our journey in the country, is the celebrations of citizens who say they are just like any others. It was Kim Jong-un, himself, when he arrived in power. He recently declared that he to visit the country each 20 times more than currently. No doubt to show them A society that is uniform, But above all, one which is subservient. (applauding) When the music stops, the The citizens were probably just actors. Here, even on a day of celebration, it remains a society under control.