So... My Hero Academia, huh? I don't like the way female characters are treated Now, not just the treatment wholesale--I actually group of female characters. Class 1A is not half students there are SIX GIRLS! This might sound them is actually invisible. Apparently both Tsu at least we didn't get a 20:4 ratio. But compared at you Hunter Hunter and all the sports anime characters, but they're not a large part of the is full of female characters, heroes, villains, Still, there's two things that get me and they REALLY get me. The sexist objectification which is not only distasteful but also and the constant sidelining and lack Before I go any further, I want to say I love My shounen of the past few decades. I have had fantastic job on the adaptation, no surprise, full of memorable and compelling Also, I think MHA deserves a shoutout who is alive and a part of Deku's life, for having a living, present, caring mom for I'd also like to say that MHA is pretty notable the hero Tiger, a trans man, and the villain a discussion of gender representation in shounen to mention and celebrate. So I'm going to do so mostly I want to cover this because would be wrong to not to cover the series' For Tiger, I don't think his trans and only then briefly in an extra, For Magne, that's not the case, and I've read of how well her representation is handled. I'm but there seems to be points for it having interesting to have a trans character who doesn't a way that villains and poorer people don't have surgery that heroes or the wealthy do. We see that On the other hand, Magne is a villain, and clearly identify as trans, is presented as one trans characters have historically been She does reflect a bit on her identity shortly before--spoilers for s4, ep 2--a Honestly, this is one of the first times a show does kill a bunch of people from here on out, I'll just say, it's definitely a choice Horikoshi her friends in the league of villains correct seen that before in a shounen show. Although young cisgender women in my analysis, particularly that trans rights are human rights, and womanhood Now, just because the show has treated better than many shounen that does not mean it's immune to Let's get into it. I have two problems with MHA's female cast. The first is the male gaze. The second is the lack We'll begin with the first one--the male gaze. seen it before. If you've seen MHA, you've seen that women in art are portrayed as sexual objects male audience. There's a lot written about this read or watch more about that," I'm gonna link it's that the women in the show exist as their own second. On a basic level, if the goal is simply to make a presumed straight, male are treated as sexual objects first and characters Think of panty shots, boob shots, tentacles, about. In anime fandom, we tend to call this stuff than male gaze, mostly because while fanservice viewers, it can be for presumably straight straight from here on out to be less wordy, FYI, Someone might look at Free! Iwatobi Swim Club and yes, this is true, but Free! is almost satire one Free!, there are a million shounen with Because, you know, the patriarchy. Male-oritened If you see a male character with his shirt off fanservice in anime, see this man! He's hot! But a male character's chest is never going It's never going to be something other never going to be what new characters that important. The anime Fairy Tail features Natsu often doesn't wear a shirt! a lot of the time. Lucy often wears bikinis and is constantly focused on by the literal framing of This is the male gaze, right? You are fanservicey because their costumes a very different treatment in the world Here's a thing to keep in mind too: women's sensual--whatever term you want to use. A sexual or fanservicey because she has large boobs. end of story. What sexualizes a female character is the presentation of her body in a way that with large breasts, great! If that's all you do. and there's a prolonged scene where male her and she's embarrassed or uncomfortable other parts of her body... then you've sexualized If you've seen a lot of anime, the scene If a series shows us a part of a woman's body point I made in a video on here years ago if that show goes on to develop that female of her by pure objectification. We do not her body. I love these characters from Kuroko but I still think that the inherent Let's look at some MHA characters to Now, I do think that fanservice/the male gaze, But such a thing is very rarely done, and rarely of MHA--one of the very first scenes of the first much as I normally would, because it serves fighting this giant villain, and hero Kamui Woods Mt. Lady, finishes him off and We get a gratuitous butt shot, and she winks saying today's her hero debut and she's OK, I do hate this a lot, it's kind of terrible, but it actually tells us something about Lady is literally using her sex appeal to garner In this world where heroes are both combatants that a new hero like Mt Lady would try to get ahead. This is honestly a really helpful because it draws an instant parallel between the of our own world; in the same way it's easier to young, cool--it's way easier to become a famous It gives us, the audience, an easy entry Did you have to draw this parallel using character is keenly aware of how she can use So this is certainly one thing people LOOK! It's empowering, see?? Women using their because it's an inherent part of And, sure, sometimes characters have their and aesthetic in a way that makes their use of the story, like Mt. Lady in this one scene. But, having consumed a lot of media generally speaking, does not have the kind of insightful character Let's look at Bubble Girl. So, for Bubble Girl and the heroes to follow, much They are revealing a way that serves And I can hear it already--oh but it This is a common counterargument when it serves the story or plot, and therefore is occasionally this has merit. But, does For Bubble Girl, the practicality Her powers do not require underboob. She can make Horikoshi did not actually design Bubble Girl, a character and design over, presumably, hundreds of other entries with other interesting Why did he choose this one? What is so compelling stating that she was a 16 year old. Horikoshi and if this is how she wants her costume to be, to be 16, and that the weird underboob thing way immediately. It got worse when she was chained the hell does this serve other than... some very For Bubble Girl, there's none of that cool No theme, no relevance to her powers, no clear hero industry. She has this costume because it scene extra titaliting for a male viewer. This isn't to say that you can't have sexy female than that's how they are. Like hell yeah. That's character in a way that doesn't objectify and female characters in that way. There's debate be both sexy and empowered while not serving the anime analysis video. But most of Horikoshi's They are sexual objects, they are meant to Even if he was going for that perfect sexy this is bad interpretation of empowered sexiness," on the intricacies of the male gaze. Shounen school boys might not be the best place for a Of course, I'd be delighted if more authors did But, you can't use the excuse "oh this if said woman is completely subject to A minor point, because I don't care very much feel about Midnight. Sure, there's an in story Her quirk releases an aroma from and it works better on men--so, somehow, this this get up is done in a way to objectify her. Not appeal works in hero society, not any meaningful It's so, presumably, straight, male viewers can her. She lowkey flirts the students and I guess I don't like her, any aspect of her honestly. We cannot forget that the MHA doesn't exist in like this. An author created it. In this her costume, her presentation. He made Another thing people tend to say about fanservice media--is that, there is sexism in the real all the time. We need to have that in our shows to going to include sexualization of characters for comment on issues of sexualization. I don't think on feminist theory with the designs or treatment Mt. Lady's sex appeal and maybe the commercial are promoting a hair spray which makes them a lot Everything else does nothing. There with varying degrees of success, but Content warning for the times on screen for but intense section of the video, so skip if Takeo, our protagonist, stops a groper from The story doesn't include this scene because they include it to showcase the horrible groping and to show that our main character is absolutely A more serious example can be found in the not the more recent Brotherhood, with the in the main setting of Amestris which falls into a revealed to be a false prophet--this reveal is the Cornello's downfall. To stop the infighting, Both sides of the Lior civil war but the local population is still totally but she is captured by the Amestris military has had a child, clearly implied to be the result to comment on the costs of imperialism and the especially civilian women. Rose, when we meet her once was, suffering immense PTSD from the abuse This is meant to shock and disturb you, that this victim of the atrocities of war. It's not it's somehow you know and were actually features a male main character who was and, of course, rape and sexual assault is All of this to say, people do write female are victims of sexual assault to make meaningful And that can be done very well, as I think It's also easy to do this poorly--see my least episode 8, for an introduction to victim blaming, He's not trying to comment on sexual assault or That was a little heavy, but important to address. Momo's quirk allows her to create objects from of her fat cells. She has to have studied the but she is dedicated enough to have a lot of a costume that exposes a lot of her skin so she of her body being blocked off by clothing. There are a lot of things wrong with the fact that the weird boob stripes of clothing stuff. Just a sturdy bikini would have been your whole chest but your whole back, and sides. I support, pretending we're in a reality where this she could wear something with more coverage up top back to use her quirk. Like a sports bra. The not using Momo's original costume, but instead unzip and bam, lots of skin revealed. When she's I can think of some many more designs, revealing, that are not this With Momo, there's also the aspect that she's Do I find it weird and off putting that a wears this oddly impractical and revealing so far is made worse when applied to young girls. something to arouse not just boys but men, when in an adult context. It's one thing to find her your waifu or husbando, or write fanfic about corrupt or anything. But, the sexual element of it Clearly the goal with Momo's costume is male The canon explanation of "she needs to show skin" costume. It's more insulting when we spend so much his costume to best support his weak body unable is just "skin has to be shown so here." Fans make actual sense. Some of these fall more into To be clear for anyone without breasts, it can So these outfits aren't just impractical but also in the sense of comfort and ease in outfits like these, and literally hinder Especially when you're a hero who is paid to run be cumbersome to move for larger chested people. their boobs interfere in their movement enough. to understand, that might give you an idea of Side note, watching someone's boobs bounce as anime would suggest. If someone's boobs are see in an anime, 1) they need a better So, to sum up this point, fanservice and story or plot. They are not empowering. sexualization in the real world. They Oh no... Not you... Agh. I should probably Or, the worst character in MHA. Mineta. If you've made it this far into the video, you every fiber of my being. Here's the thing--if you intended, funny, his character is literally bullied, so he wanted to become cool and popular. women as a symbol of his own status. Therefore, worse as the constant bullying he experienced He offers nothing to the story in to make perverted jokes and objectify women. This is bad on its own. It's It is made worse by the fact that the good part get undermined by this. If you're and then this sniveling excuse for a character your own story by taking all the steam out Levity via comedic relief isn't generally a bad funny moments without Mineta, and those can be and cool in the face of danger, and then BAM tangent is funny. As I'm writing I'm wondering who I am as a person, someone who thinks way I googled MHA funny moments and some of them Bakugou being so angry all the time over like getting zapped, or Momo being clueless about There's funny stuff that has nothing to do Let's take a look at some of his "greatest in wish I desired to wack myself in the face They are so constant whenever he When he gropes Tsu in the USJ attack... When he groped Momo in the How about the cheerleader outfits? Where the girls Mineta and you're-on-thin-ice Kaminari. The wear these outfits for a cheering competition, and also all the other girls into putting them from the biggest pervert in their class?? Did no all the girls lose common sense? Momo even asks like? Shouldn't my canonically very intelligent Why does the author keep making it so The sub has Present Mic ask "What kind of fan that the Class 1A girls are going "full on suggests that, yeah, that's literally all this is. these costumes for a totally nonsensical reason; is for titillating the male viewers, plain and The manga just shows us the depressed line up of know it--a boob and butt shot! They're Tooru's encouragement and we get cute Then there's the training camp where he When in the class battles in the most recent you think he came up with a clever and it's revealed to ultimately be a way Now, are you ready for the worst one? The one that if you're leaving me an angry you're going to have to stop and look When Mineta meets Eri, ERI--sweet six year old Eri--the first thing he says is "I I look at this scene, and I "He's just a teenage boy with I'm sorry, if a teenage boy in real "I want to see how you look in ten years," I to get away from that child and tell his and needs serious help. What is wrong with six year old is to sexualize her? To say you can dehumanize like every other female character? The worst part is that Mirio makes a joke joke here, but no. We get that line And to zoom out, it's not just Mineta that made the choice to write a line that sexualizes terrible line of dialogue. This was a distinct If you have been screaming that fiction is not that none of this matters, I'm here to tell you Media informs the way we see the world. It's not affirmatively that "Yes, now it's okay to hit on It's watching anime, and TV, and movies, reading again and again and again and again presented as men begin to think of real life women in that barrage of implicit and explicit messages should be presented. MHA, through all I Okay. So, that was all my first I still have a second point--don't worry, it's a female characters in MHA are underdeveloped, Like I said at the beginning, I do think than a lot of shounen. But it's still not... great. Let's look at Uraraka. She is a great friend to of season 2 during the Sports Festival--a tropes and rebukes them. Uraraka is fighting and the crowd boos Bakugou for not going easy on got a rough draw going up against him. Present However, Aizawa as a commentator calls out the as a serious opponent for Bakugou. Bakugou was his guard down at all. Although she eventually even seems excited about it. Afterwards, the "extras" in Class 1-A have because Bakugou is When he returns to the stands with his other such a frail girl, but Bakugou just notes there feminist icon?? No, not at all, What's so remarkable about this is how aware tropes where even "strong female characters" the eyes of the narrative for their gender, and then just doesn't do much with Uraraka or all I'm slightly exaggerating, but the only the sports festival is realizing she has a crush declares that she's setting her feelings aside to pretty distracted by it? And she hasn't much of a leaping into a fray with Deku in the class battles I consulted a friend who has read the manga--I'm involved in a later arc, and she just looked at she also said that pretty much the entirety of or female characters getting that treatment. But who get very brief badass moments before getting Let's look at a supporting character: Mina. She acid secretion. She gets one character moment in but that moment is literally embedded supporting character's backstory. This moment And that would be fine if supporting female but they simply are not. Not to mention Another point, let's look at the senior "big glad we have a young woman in the mix. significant development and arcs? Guess! OH IT'S because Nejire, our resident "big three" lady, OH! She participates in a beauty contest. A to demonstrate how you sideline interesting I'm not sure I'd be bold enough guys and then write a beauty contest Another minor point about Neijire, the isn't itself an issue, boobs are great, but the perving about her body. Like, there are several just for this to happen. Horikoshi isn't Another thing that isn't Horikoshi's fault: but especially the girls, skinnier. I actually realistic bodies. They aren't all stick thin, I like that a lot. Sometimes I look at One Piece and then the female characters who have one (1) want to remove my eyes from my head and wander the anime said--no, stick thin! Body diversity harder to animate, but if you can animate this, I Back to character development. It's no are really central to the story of with a bunch of female supporting characters, Uraraka. Horikoshi is certainly good at writing Actually executing and utilizing those concepts how amazing the female characters are on paper if There are female characters who get plenty of in their exam, Jirou has her arc with the school her internship... but if we think about the "plotty" in the Sports Festival, there is a recurring set When it's an exam or an internship or a But when it's real action and being heroes and I don't deny this is a shounen aimed great female supporting characters in a story critical part of the action. Horikoshi seems What has he chosen to do with his female Sorely disappoint. Sigh. The flipside This is all compounded by the hypocrisy of where it seems like Horikoshi is sexism in shounen, juxtaposed with all the It makes that entire scene read as a faux Trying to remark on the sexism of shounen hollow when you not only don't comment on the If this was a show that didn't even pretend to it would still be irritating to see a ton frustrating as MHA. MHA is but one strand in a There are series far more sexist than MHA, but it makes me even more frustrated that it fails so Acknowledging the sexist elements in a is important. Acknowledging the subtle and not our viewing experience is important, and not One of the reasons I started this believe it--was because I didn't see that kind of largely because most of the prominent issues around sexism and feminism do sometimes a unique perspective and gave you something other shows. Don't be afraid to think critically And don't be afraid to take seriously the sexism At the beginning of the show, Deku tells us "Not reflection on what it means to live in a society But it resonates in another way in this men get to stand above women in terms of how much time and time again. This is Hi everyone. That was a long one, huh? Bit kinda--content but if you're a long time fan you in a then-new sports anime Prince of Stride. I'd sexism in MHA, or other shows you've seen the I probably don't need to tell you to please and be civil and thoughtful even if you disagree, I am sending you all the love, dear viewer. See, I originally planned to make so I came up with an intro segment that would be but then the Ice Adolescence trailer dropped and make a video. I did a joke about vanishing absence was so much more involved. I still all 3% of you who actually watch to the end of my