(orchestral music) - My name is Jim Al-Khalili, I'm a professional physicist, and I've been making films in science for many years. I never ceased to be astonished at the awesome power of science in shedding light on From the tiniest things in existence, to extraordinary objects In this series, I want gives us insights into the How did the universe come into being? How did life start on earth? And how does it sustain itself? What is the nature of space and time, the very reality we live in? And, how will it all end? In this episode, I want to that physics can now tell we see all around us. We'll investigate some which explain how life itself can exist and thrive in the universe. We learn how exquisite patterns of nature can emerge spontaneously from simple mathematical rules. I'll show you how my own of quantum mechanics some of the most important And we'll tackle one of the how did life begin? I want to explore the latest developments and astonishing new theories the way we understand the universe. I hope this series will our universe is. (orchestral music) I'm going to stop this episode by looking at one of the the laws of thermodynamics. As unlikely as it sounds, which led to the discovery of By the first half of the 19th century, steam technology was with bewildering speed. But although these engines no one really understood It took a brilliant in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars to crack the problem, his name was Sadi Carnot. What really bothered Carnot was the technological superiority that France's enemies seem to possess. So Carnot vowed to how steam engines work for the benefit of France. Carnot saw the tall heat engines comprised of a hot source Now Carnot believed that heat that would flow like water And just like water falling from a height, the flow of heat could be Carnot crucial insight was to show that to make any heat engine more efficient all you had to do was to increase the difference in temperature and the cooler surroundings. Carnot had revealed that heat engines weren't just a clever invention, they were tapping into a They were exploiting the flow of energy between hot and cold. But as 19th century progressed, the study of heat, motion and energy, began to grip the wider Soon, it was realized that than simply explain how these ideas were applicable By the mid 19th century, scientists and engineers had how different forms of They measured how much of is needed to make a certain Let me give you an example, the amount of energy needed to heat 30 milliliters of water is the same as the amount of energy needed to lift this 12 and a half kilogram weight by one meter. The deeper point here that people realized was that although mechanical work and heat may seem very different, they are a fact both facets This idea would come to be known as the first law of thermodynamics. The first law reveals that energy is never created or destroyed, it just changes from one form to another. 19th century scientists realized of the entire universe is actually fixed. Amazingly, there's a set amount of energy that just changes into So in a steam engine, it's just changed from But impressive though the first law is, it begged an enormous question, what exactly is going on when one form of energy In fact, what does it do it at all? (orchestral music) The answer would impart be found by German scientist, Rudolf Clausius, and it would form the basis as the second law of thermodynamics. Clausius realized that not only was there a fixed amount of energy in the universe, but that the energy seemed to be following a very strict rule. Put simply energy in the form of heat always moved in one particular direction. This insight of his, is in fact one of the most important ideas in the whole of science. As Clausius put it, heat cannot of itself pass from a colder to a hotter body. This is a very intuitive idea, if left alone, this hot mug What this means is that heat say, to my hand and then again, from my hand to my chest. (dramatic orchestral music) This might seem completely obvious but it was a crucial insight. The flow of heat was a one-way process that seems to be built very fundamentally into the workings of the entire universe. (dramatic orchestral music) Left alone, energy seems to always go from being concentrated (dramatic orchestral music) Clausius brought together all these ideas about how energy is transferred and put them into mathematical context. It can be summarized by this equation. (dramatic orchestral music) The Clausius did was he called entropy, this letter S. Basically what it's saying in is that, as heat is transferred from hotter to colder bodies, It's appear to Clausius this process would be irreversible. (dramatic orchestral music) Clausius was so confident that he figured out that was going on out there He speculated that the had to be increasing towards a maximum, and that there was nothing This idea became known as the (orchestral music) The second law of that all things that gave off heat were in some way connected together. All things that gave off heat were part of an irreversible process that was happening everywhere. The process of spreading a process of increasing entropy. The second law says the universe itself must one day reach a maximum disorder. The universe itself must one day die. (intense orchestral music) If everything degrades, if everything becomes disordered, you might be wondering Contrary to what you might think, is precisely because of the second law that all this exists. The great disordering of the cosmos gives rise to its complexity. It's possible to harness this natural flow from order to disorder, to tap into the process to create new order, new structure. (orchestral music) The engine of my car like all engines is designed to exploit the second law. It starts out with like this petrol, stuffed full of energy, but when it's ignited in the engine it turns this compact liquid into a mixture of gases 2000 Not to mention dumping heat and sound into your environment, it's turning order into disorder. (orchestral music) What's so spectacularly is that it can harness it can siphon off a small bit of it and use it for a more ordered process. Like driving the pistons, that's what engines do, from order to disorder But it's not just cars, to work thanks to the very same principle. If I eat this chocolate bar packed full of nice ordered energy, my body processes it and turns it into more disordered energy but (piano keys) Steam engines, power stations, life on earth, all of these things harness the cosmic flow But the laws of thermodynamics alone aren't enough to explain why there's so much complexity in our world, such an intricate and Ours is a world where creates exquisite beauty, where a chaotic and unpredictable universe has turned simple dust into human beings. It's even more amazing when you consider that we ourselves are of simple elements. These elements and compounds they're incredibly, almost In fact, almost 99% of the water, coal, and chore. With traces of other like iron, zinc, phosphorus and sulfur. In fact, I've estimated that the elements which make up the average human But somehow trillions of conspire miraculously into thinking, breathing, How the wonders of creation are assembled from such simple building blocks is surely the most intriguing The answer lies in the (dramatic orchestral music) Before the coming of chaos theory, scientists had a pretty fixed idea of how everything in the universe worked. In essence, the beginning scientists saw the universe as a giant complicated mechanical device, kind of a supersized (intense orchestral music) The idea was that the universe is a huge an intricate machine that obeys If you knew the rules of how the machine was configured to start with, as you turn the handle over and over again it will behave in an If a nice mathematical system that worked in a similar way to my ornery, scientists assumed some was causing it. (dramatic orchestral music) The man who forced the scientific was an American meteorologist In the early 1960s, he tried to find mathematical equations that could help predict the weather. Like all his contemporaries, he believed that in principle the weather system was no a mechanical system and predicted mathematically. But he was wrong. When Lorenz wrote down what looked like perfectly to describe the movement of air currents, they didn't do what they were supposed to, they made no useful It was as if the lightest could make the difference a month later between a snow storm and How can a simple system that works in the regular clockwork become unpredictable? It's all down to how it's configured, how the gears are connected. In essence, under certain circumstances, the tiniest difference in the differences that are too small to measure can get bigger and bigger With each step in the process, the system then moves from where you thought it was going. Lorenz captured this radical idea in an influential talk he gave called, &quot;does the flap of a set off a tornado in Texas?&quot; It was a powerful and evocative image and within months, a new phrase the butterfly effect. It seems unpredictability was hardwired into every aspect of the world we live in. The global climate could in the course of a few short years, the stock market could we could be wiped from the and there was nothing (dramatic orchestral music) Scientistic realized that between nature's power to self-organize and the chaotic consequences Complex unpredictable natural systems can emerge from surprisingly These rules have a unique property often referred to as feedback. This green behind me is that's filming me, but the camera in turn is This creates a loop with appearing on the screen. This is a classic example we get a picture, in a At first it seems fairly predictable, but as we zoom the camera in, some pretty strange The first thing I noticed is stops bearing much resemblance on the screen. Small changes in the movement of the match become rapidly amplified from the camera to the screen So even though I can describe each step in the process mathematically, I still have no way of in the flickering of the flame will end up in the final image. This is the butterfly effect in action. But now here comes the spooky bit, with just a slight tweak to the system these strange and rather begin to emerge. The same system, one that's with feedback, produces chaos and order. But one scientist more than any other brought a fundamentally new understanding to this astonishing and his name is Benoit Mandelbrot. Underlying nearly all the is a mathematical principle This describes anything is repeated over and over again at smaller and smaller scales. A Great example of the branches of trees, they fork and fork again, over and over at smaller The same branching principle applies in the structure of our lungs and the way our blood vessels are distributed throughout our bodies. It's even describes how rivers split into ever smaller streams, and nature can repeat all Look at this Romanesco broccoli, its overall structure of repeating cones at Mandelbrot realized self similarity was the basis of an entirely And he even gave it a name, fractal. What I'm about to show you is one of the most remarkable ever discovered. Epic doesn't really do it justice. This is the Mandelbrot set, it's been called the thumbprint of God. And when we begin to explore (intense orchestral music) Just as with the tree or the broccoli, the closer you study this picture, the more detail you see. Each shape within the set of smaller shapes. Baby Mandelbrot that go on forever. Yet all this complexity incredibly simple equation. This equation has a it feeds back on itself. Like a video loop, each for the next goal. This feedback means that an incredibly simple mathematical equation can produce a picture The really fascinating thing isn't just a bizarre mathematical quirk, it's fractal property of mirrors the fundamental Complex systems can be that's the big revelation. Design does need an active it's an inherent part of the universe. (orchestral music) So we've seen how two of the thermodynamics and chaos theory, explain so much about and the basic laws that underpin it, but in recent years, and this is an area I personally become it's been realized that quantum mechanics may also play a role in explaining some of the most important (soft music) As we saw in the previous episode, the behavior of subatomic they'd behave as though they pop in and out of and you can only express in terms of probabilities, But for decades, no one had any idea that the Alison Wonderland, world of quantum mechanics in the realm of biology. In recent years, that's changed. Quantum biology is a And at the University of Surrey, my colleagues and I are heavily involved in pushing back its boundaries. We think spooky quantum effects within living organisms. I'd like to show you an example, a bizarre process called (hawks grating) When physicist say you to get something done, we have a special term for it, we say you have to I want to look at quantum tunneling, because it's an extraordinary way in which particles can move enabling them to cross energy barriers, barriers which are even more challenging than the walls of a medieval castle. It's all revolves around from the world of quantum mechanics. Particles can cross barriers They act like ghosts. I wouldn't blame you for that a clever theoretician that it's just mere speculation, something that we have it takes place all the time In the quantum world, protons don't have to go over barriers. They can tunnel straight through. A quantum particle can to another even if it has to pass through an impenetrable barrier. In nuclear physics, this (intense orchestral music) The most important advantage It happens incredibly quickly, much faster than if protons As a nuclear physicist, quantum tunneling is my bread and butter, do it all the time, but what has this got to do with biology? At the University of Surrey, we're currently researching is involved in the central process which propagates and You'll probably recognize this as the famous DNA Double Helix. Discovered by Crick and Watson in 1953, this molecule contains our genetic code, it's the instruction manual The Double Helix structure is stable it's like a twisted double spine, like a twisted ladder, but it's the rungs of the ladder that are of interest to me. They're made up of four smaller molecules called basis, adenine, And these bases fit together like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle. So, the two strands fit together when guanine fits to cytosine and adenine fits to thiamine. But every now and again and understanding how and why they happen is incredibly important. The evolution of all living things depends on DNA mistakes Sometimes, a mutation in their environment and they over very long timescales, That's how species change, but how do these mutations occur? Let me take you through a hypothesis we're currently researching. Here's a computer simulation produced by my PhD student Max, in the foreground you can see and the gray blob in the Now, that's an enzyme that splits the two strands of DNA apart so that each can then Now, if we zoom in, we can see the basis all but we get into the business end, so down at the molecular, the green is guanine, and these two bases that are held together by hydrogen bonds like this one, which is basically a proton. So now we're down at the quantum realm, which of course is my specialism. It's this subatomic bonding of the basis which most interests me. Now these protocols spend most but every now and again to the other side, however, they just jumped back again. But, if the two basis split with the protons in the wrong positions, then that changes the shape of the basis. Now, when the strands of DNA green would normally fit with yellow. However, now they can't, they're like jigsaw pieces But if an orange comes however, this shouldn't happen, green shouldn't fit with orange, this is a mistake. Now of course you can guess we think quantum tunneling (intense orchestral music) Which means it could be I'm working on this theory with - Mutations can be caused by Radiation causes mutation, ultraviolet light causes mutation. So there are many mechanisms of which the proton moving is one of them. - If it is the moving proton it could find its way not by quantum effects, ordinary Newtonian physics. - The question is whether like a super ball moving or whether they move by in which they essentially disappeared from one position and appears another. - Our preliminary results - The recent work of our it moves a tall, It moves If the proton moves from it's doing it as a quantum - It's possible, this might even have far reaching consequences - And of course, mutation is but it also has a bad side, it's responsible also Cancerous, cancers caused by mutations. Single molecules have they change us, and mutations in single molecules can mean the difference (orchestral music) - It's very exciting to me to think that the great thermodynamics, chaos theory are being used to help us understand the ordinary natural world around us. Now, I want to end this film by looking at one of in all of this science, how did life itself begin? (dramatic orchestral music) Let's think ourselves back, to a primeval earth, with simple chemicals in a rock pool and energy flowing in from a thermal vent is one of the great outstanding How did simple chemicals we know as life? Is not often realized that the come from the laws of physics, I can even show you the with a simple little backyard experiments. (intense orchestral music) Now, all I've got in this there's a bit of micalpadrian in there, but that's just to add color. A physicist or chemist would say that until I put it on the stove, there's no energy going in or out. And of course it has no structure to it. But as soon as I heat it up, hopefully some interesting (intense music) Quite rapidly, these shapes appear, they're known as convection cells. They form because the bottom of the oil has suddenly become very hot. The system has lots of new And as the heat dissipates ordered symmetrical structures, These pretty convection cells are a classic example of in the physical world, they're called dissipative structures. It's worth remembering that all that's happening to this oil, is that heat, energy Some scientists think through dissipative structures the development of life. Recently an experiment was carried out by a team of scientists in America using these little robots Switch their batteries on and all they can do is So generally they just It's all a bit of a mess, and the whole system is But then the scientist to move their arms in a more Quite quickly, this collective behavior spontaneously emerged almost These smarticles look like yet they haven't been or to cooperate in any way, they just self-organize even leading each other in a The scientists realized the smarticles were somehow choosing the structures which would enable them to stay stable and avoid being knocked around by the patterns of energy - To discover these dancers these kind of organized because this is the way so that the energy flowing through them doesn't disorder them and in that state. - So the idea being explored is that on a primeval earth, a predictable source of heat, may have entered a feedback loop, changing their shape to become more stable as the energy flowed them. - One of the properties they are able to maintain themselves in this specialized state, only because of the energy has a very particular pattern to it. And that they've kind of in the presence of that kind of pattern so it's an evolutionary process then. - In effect, it's a kind of favoring the combinations of chemicals that find the most stable form. Ideas like this may help in our understanding - I think that sometimes to kind of imagine that you just have random mess and that you need a completely unimaginably, unlikely coalescence of recognizable life-like structure out of absolute vacuum so to speak, out of nothing that And this is about how I think the physics helps you to maybe fill between that extreme and something that you where in between there's a that you can argue for. - So could it be that the actually make life more likely than we've previously imagined? It's clear that science is with some of the greatest Here's a philosophical question for you, where do you draw the line I think we can all agree and yet it has a lot in common with life. It needs energy, heat to survive by burning fuel in the same It can create beautiful transient patterns and it has the ability (dramatic orchestral music) So at what point did non-life become life? At the University of Glasgow a major project is underway to try to actually create life in a lab. Professor Lee Cronin and his team have built a series of chemical This is genesis engine number one, genesis engine number two, and there's a series of other The machines are designed the simplest molecules, which might have been found in a rock pool on a primeval earth, such as carbon dioxide and methane adding methanol and water and then driving heat through them. Then the scientists study the molecules as they combine and recombine - So what are we looking for? We're looking at molecules that molecules that are related to one another, maybe they have the same, but a bit different, what we see when we see evolution starting as a molecule parent yet makes but you can see that they are related and they carry on going. - Lee believes any theory of life has to be based on information, because at the most fundamental that describes complex systems and which is necessary for - Probably, life didn't it emerged in information. And chemistry just happened that carried it. - He's working closely on this idea with theoretical physicist - So I'm working with Lee because I had this kind of for what life is, which is that somehow information a critical role in what we might call, the physics underlying life. Objects like you and complex molecules like all of those things require information or an evolutionary process to And that's the physics How does a universe spontaneously and information processing systems that then undergo this and build all the complexity - This is thinking on the grand scale, not just the origin of life on earth, but everywhere in the universe. - My mission in science with the plausible scenarios that would give rise to the But actually who cares about that? It's like saying we wanna but when you look in the So what I want to do, if this works, I'm not gonna work out what did happen, I'm gonna be at work at what does happen. My very strong belief, it is a belief and I'm trying but what I'm trying to is that life is everywhere. So by understanding the origin of life and making life now, we will be able to statistically map how life works in the universe. - One of the reasons to explain life yet, our concepts of what the are just not structured properly yet. And we haven't been creative breaking free of the mold of physics as it's been done in the last 300 years and invent new ways of doing that are in front of us What our minds and consciousness? How does intelligence evolve over planetary scale timescales? What other things like us - Right now, life on earth means nothing if earth gets obliterated, and we don't affect the So my ambitions Nobel Prize, the ambition is to create a technology we could use to see the universe, to transmit our origin of life idea and create other living worlds And I can imagine us having an when we know how to do this to say, is it ethical to infect but an origin of life scenario? Are we gonna destroy the Is a planet definitely dead? So, my ambition is to make sure that we find life understand life on earth, and if there's not life we better make sure that we make the most of our universe by making sure life escapes earth. - As we've seen throughout the series, today's generation of scientists are pushing back the boundaries of what it's possible for us to know at a breathtaking rate. I believe that as a human race, we should take pride in our achievements. That science is at the the deepest questions of existence. And for me, physics is the true path to understanding the nature of reality. And with that understanding, we can shape our world and our destiny. (orchestral music) (logo squishing)