Hello everyone, everything good? Today I'm going to tell you about 5 fruits that are able to help reduce and control blood pressure. Are you hypertensive? Do you already eat any of these fruits every day? If you still don't know what they are, come with me to learn more about the hypotensive effect of these fruits. It is very important to combine drug treatment with healthy lifestyle habits. Even better is knowing that there are strategies to lower your blood pressure even more. So stay with me until the end of the video to find out about these five fruits that I even think are delicious. So, without further ado, run the vignette. Dr. Roberto Yano, Cardiologist. Hello dear friends, how are you? I am Dr. Roberto Yano, a cardiologist specializing in pacemakers. Are you hypertensive? Does anyone in your family have high blood pressure? Did you know that one in four people in the world is hypertensive? Look how many people there. Surely you know someone who has treatment to control pressure, or you don't? If you know, leave it here in the comments I want to know. I'm also sure that many of you who are watching the video are hypertensive and don't even know they are. You there, are you sure you don't have high blood pressure? Do you have it and not taking care of it? After all, what are you doing with your heart? Remembering folks, that high blood pressure does not cause symptoms and many people only seek the doctor when they begin to show symptoms of diseases caused by poorly controlled pressure for years or decades. For those who don't know, high blood pressure or high blood pressure is a disease that affects blood vessels, affects the heart, brain, eyes, can cause kidney failure when we don't treat it properly. Ah doctor, be clearer, when can I say that I have high blood pressure? If you have sustained and elevated levels above 140 systolic blood pressure or 90 diastolic blood pressure, you are hypertensive. So you went to the doctor's office, measured the pressure, it was 150 x 90, came back the other day, measured the pressure, it was 130 x 95, that's it, you have two measurements greater than 140 of systolic or 90 of diastolic, so you have high blood pressure. As I said before, most people think that high blood pressure causes symptoms, but that's not quite true, in general high blood pressure doesn't cause symptoms, doesn't cause headaches, for example, as many people think. To feel a slight pain in the back of the neck the pressure has to be at least above 18. Over time, if it is not treated, it will lead to serious health problems such as heart attack, stroke, kidney failure, heart failure that is the weak heart, when you are diagnosed with high blood pressure, your cardiologist can soon start treatment. This treatment may initially be a lifestyle change, but depending on the value and risk factors, he may already choose to opt for a remedy, in addition, of course, to always advise on lifestyle changes. Lifestyle change encompasses everything healthy, such as improving your diet, looking for a nutritionist or nutritionist to have a balanced menu like the DASH diet, for example, including foods that will help control your blood pressure. I always say in my consultations that it is important for us to include fruits, vegetables, lean meats, cereals, reduce salt intake, do physical exercises at least 150 minutes a week, this is the minimum, and if necessary, the patient must, in addition to these guidelines, take the medicines correctly. Another thing is to reduce stress and anxiety through meditation, relaxation, physical exercise, it's also super important. Well, without further ado, let's go to the five fruits that will help you control your blood pressure. First fruit, this fruit is not expensive, you can find it in any market, any fair, this one has no personal excuse, it's the watermelon. Who doesn't like watermelon comment here if you don't like watermelon? because for me it is delicious, you can consume 200 grams of watermelon a day, watermelon has several substances such as potassium, L-Citroline, which acts in the regulation of blood pressure, it is also rich in vitamin A, B1, B2, B3 , calcium, phosphorus, lycopene, but if you are diabetic and hypertensive you have to be careful because watermelon has a high glycemic index, which is why it is important to eat it in moderation. Now a serious thing guys, before the second feed, are you already subscribed to the channel? We are already going to hit a million subscribers, so subscribe, click on the bell to receive all notifications of new videos and another personal thing, for those who still don't know the Yano Clinic is now here in Indaiatuba, SP, we are close to Campinas , Salto, Itu, Sorocaba, Sao Paulo, so we are assisting people from all over this region, and for you who are from outside, further afield, we are providing care throughout Brazil via telemedicine. But we are now here in Indaiatuba, come and visit us here. Here at the Yano Clinic, in addition to cardiology care, we have gynecology, obstetrics, gynecological and obstetric ultrasound, dermatology, which is hepatological aesthetics, then I'll leave the appointment phone number here in the description. But let's go to the second fruit, it's the lemon. Lemon is always available at home, I believe it is one of the cheapest and most accessible fruits, many people manage to have a lemon tree at home, so if you have a space in the backyard and you don't have a lemon tree, you will plant one lemon foot. Lemon brings many benefits to our health, you can make lemon juice, because it has ascorbic acid, it prevents the degradation of nitric oxide, so it causes a vasodilation of our blood vessels, facilitates blood circulation, helping to decrease of blood pressure. Now, be careful with the sugar you put in, it's no use putting a kilo of sugar in the juice, I, for example, prefer to add sweetener, or sometimes I don't put anything, there's that water with lemon, flavored, just thinking about it goes mouth watering. Third fruit, the grape. Eating grapes, drinking grape juice, is also good for health, it has phenolic compounds such as resveratrol, tannins, flavonoids, which are bioactive compounds with antioxidant and anti-inflammatory action, so they also help to relax blood vessels and can also lower blood pressure. Fourth fruit is cocoa. For those who don't know, cocoa is also a fruit, did you know, it is rich in catechins, flavonoids, tannins, which are also antioxidant and anti-inflammatory compounds. So, these substances will act in the same way, relaxing the blood vessels, improving circulation, consequently the pressure will decrease. You can eat cocoa powder, or piece of dark chocolate, which is one that contains 70% cocoa, to be clearer, you can eat up to 40g of dark chocolate a day, or 2 teaspoons of cocoa powder, per day. And it can also be added to some vitamin, fruit, milk, yogurt, there goes your creativity. But come on, fifth fruit, it's the pomegranate. Here in the condominium where I live, there are several pomegranate trees. I know it's sometimes hard to find, but you can also plant it at home, because it's harder to find, few people consume pomegranate on a daily basis. Studies show that consuming 150 ml of pomegranate juice a day can lower blood pressure as early as two weeks. The antioxidants present in this fruit also relax blood vessels and improve circulation, reducing blood pressure. So did you see how food is our ally? And did you like the video? If you liked it, share it with your friends, the more people know about these tips, the more people will live better, they will be able to improve their lives. My idea here is always to save the world and I want to know, are you coming with me or not. As I always say, it doesn't hurt to repeat, those who eat healthy, exercise regularly, sleep well, take their medication correctly, live with less stress, are those people who end up living longer and with a better quality of life. In addition to all this, remember that it is important to keep the check-up with your cardiologist up to date, going every 3 years will not help, so for those who do not live in Indaiatuba, we provide telemedicine care for you who is from Indaiatuba and region, I will leave WhatsApp and the Clinic phone number here in the description. It's ok guys, so today's message is a big hug and until next time.