(audience members yelling) - No steal. There's no steal there. I predict not a steal. Watch this. And he stayed. He's gonna steal. This is a steal. If this app works, this (excited vocalizing) There he goes! It fricking works. It works. Two years ago I came up where you could decode baseball signs, so you would know when the other team was going to steal even Then in a covert effort to in coding and machine learning, I would make the app free I'm happy to report it's Today I'm gonna show you and we'll use it in the wild. And then we're gonna talk in very simple terms with my buddy Jabril. But first, to set the stage, we need to understand of secret baseball signs. It's the game within the game. Most people know the catcher when your team is on defense, but when you're on offense, the third base coach gives signs to both the batter and the base runner. For example, he could secretly or to not swing at the next pitch. Or you can tell the base runner to steal. And just to be clear, stealing a base is when you start running as soon as the pitch is thrown, instead of waiting for the It's risky because if the and the catcher's good, he can throw you out at second base. Because it's a big advantage, coaches will actually tell their players to watch and see if they could figure out the other team's signs. That's considered a fair play The problem is our brains the complex pattern. So we set out to create an app that would use machine And by we, I mean Jabril actually sat down and wrote the code and I just made sure he had Here's how it works. If I saw coach touched his I would assign those Then I would just watch him After that, I would just let So was it a steal or not? After you do this for enough sequences, the app will start to make predictions. In this case, it's predicting or nose then chin is their steal sign. This worked well enough on my workbench, so now it was time for in a kids versus adults Wiffle Ball game. And my friend Sarah takes pretty seriously. So she was the captain of the kids team and was signaling for them to steal at just the right moments. (everyone cheering) And I wasn't sure on the ethics of using our app against but they were scoring runs and and then they got so confident, they started talking trash. - [All] We want a pitcher - And no one says that about my pitcher, so at that point, the gloves came off. We found it easiest to film and then scrub through and capture the order as opposed to trying to do it real time. And I'm very happy to report we cracked their code (upbeat music) And what's cool is once you know the code, you no longer need the app because you can just watch And when we saw it, we alerted our pitcher with (upbeat music) - Yeah. You're outta there buddy. - And after that, the and we were able to and kids drool. So our app cracked the code and I'm gonna show you them out the steal sign using just your brain. Here's the first one, Here's the second and this was no steal and it was a steal pause and and figure it out because I'm According to the app which Sarah later confirmed if she touched her hat and Everything else was just a decoy. Now, before we tell you exactly out so quickly, we need a So I've cornered my buddy Jabril here and I'm gonna make him give of machine learning. Now here's what you He's basically a genius to code when he was 14. He has an amazing YouTube channel you should check out with videos like this one where he the character teaches any maze using machine - All right. Let's say we have Timmy here and Timmy likes certain So in our fake example on how big the toy is and So from small to big and then over here how many parts it has from just one piece to with gears and moving And so if we asked Timmy and start to plot those on the graph we'll start to see a pattern. So generally he likes toys but does not like toys And so by looking at his past preferences we can make really good If you show little Timmy here and this big, we are confident that he'll like it before we even show it to him because it is That's the big deal with machine learning. We don't have to take the time and show little Timmy been created and record his answers. After we record some likes and dislikes we're able to draw some boundaries. And precisely where we is the secret sauce. In this case with just two inputs you can just eyeball it and see But when you have thousands with each other, it's comprehend where those However, it's pretty trivial for a computer using machine learning. - In doing research for this over 50 baseball players and about signs, it was surprising use the same strategy. See if you could pick up on it. - Every coach has an indicator. - I have an indicator you know, random stuff like this, touch anywhere until I touch this. None of that matters. - So it'd be indicator and the So it's indicator arm steal. If I just do the arm, that's nothing. - Oftentimes I'll give this, Simon didn't say. If I go indicator, and then immediately to Bunt is to the belly - So basically nothing matters and it's all a decoy until And then the very next So after the indicator, or to take a pitch or to steal. And so since the steal after the indicator, we just look at a sequence where that's showing as one. Then we look through at a time and store those combos. And we do the same thing for all the sequences and whatever two letter combo shows up in all of them is their In this case it's AD. So if we decode that, that and chin is their steal sign. Now I have a confession. What I just showed you doesn't It's just a simple algorithm once we discover that will use an indicator directly But based off all the people we talk to if you're trying to decode signs this simple version should But what about the other 10% than indicator followed by sign? That's where you need machine learning because if done properly machine learning can as you give it enough training data. So to really see how good Jabril's machine learning app was, I generated off an insanely complicated up with to see if he could figure it out. So my secret sign was a mustache rub as the indicator followed and then a tooth tap as the steal sign then I can have up to 50 different signals in each sequence and then if I ever touch my right So you ignore everything in the sequence even if I've already given the steal sign. Now, just to set the stage if we weren't going to this would take a normal of years to solve because it's the same as if you're asking Timmy instead of just drawing the boundaries. Before we see if Jabril can and how long it will take him let's just go one layer deeper and see how machine learning in creating neural networks in the more complicated case There are three main And hang with me here because You have the input layer, which in our case are the signs being given. And then way over here in our case, steal or no steal. And then in the middle we And right now that's just a black box. So if a sign was hat, hat, nose, hand we would tweak these Depending on how each each one is interconnected So it causes some simple And when you sum up all of those numbers you're left with a number And if that number is really And if the number is really So you give it a bunch of training data where given an input you know what the output should be and you start with these in totally random directions and when you add them all up, Well that doesn't make sense. You can't have half a steal. And more importantly you know the answers and you know that this combination So you just start tweaking until you start to get correct over time. And after going through a bunch of examples where you know eventually you get to a of the knobs just makes it less accurate. So you stop. So now you super glue these into place because you've And so now with the brand new input where you don't know the answer it gives you the correct output. In this case, a steal. Of course, this is a simple model but this scales up so of inputs and thousands able to discover really What's so cool about how neural networks in our own Once I've been given understand the interaction between my hand and arm and keeping then my model is trained and I super glue those then I can introduce a tried before and I still know what to do. I don't need to be trained on of object because my brain Think about that. For a long time before machine computers were just following by humans. Now they can learn like humans only they can do it much faster and more comprehensively than we can. Obligatory. And that's why when I that would take a normal methods thousands of years to solve - Yo man, that's fast, please tell me that your indicator is a mustache rub. And then you have whatever. And then a tooth tap. Is that it? - That's it. Jabril's machine learning algorithm just created the right boundaries and solved it in less than three minutes. The machine learning than our simple version which can solve it after But the upside is that it of signs as long as you're And so now it was time So I asked my buddy Destin to - Okay, dude, this is the growing up. Today, my son is playing on the rascals. I'm gonna go film third base and we'll plug all that data into the machine learning algorithm. These kids are yelling at me wanting me to know what my channel is. - And the fact they didn't that whatever was happening effective disguise. And thanks to Dustin's great we were able to get even more data to show that our methods totally worked. And while Destin just and filmed all these third base coaches. - Before you do that, Say, hey, this what I'm doing. - Yeah, 'cause signs are - Yeah. - Yes, sir. Got it. I got in trouble for stealing signs. - I was a little more If you put a GoPro in just watch the footage and and it just looks like with a drink in your hand. I've actually used this trick a few times especially on my carnival So just like with Dustin's at the games I went to, and once you'd cracked their code. - Okay, steal, they're about to steal. To be able to predict There he goes, there he goes. Knew he was gonna steal. I knew it. I hope you enjoy this excuse to learn more about machine learning as much as I did. I'll put links to both versions of the app in the video description And of course, if there are specific rules against using technology to I am not telling you to break them. Otherwise, from personal risk getting some very - You cheated, Mark Rova!