A strange bestiary of insects 300 million years ago. Over time, these creatures Why ? A paleontological investigation raises of those dragonflies the wingspan of a hawk. And these centipedes bigger than a man. 358 million years ago, continents It's the beginning of a period during which the oxygen level, rises to 35% against 21 today. Giant trees store and release abundant oxygen. The human organism would not be However, it fits perfectly Arthropleura, which can measure up to a cousin of the millipede. Meganeura, with its wingspan of 70 cm, this insect of the dragonfly family Flying birds and reptiles She is the queen of the air. This sepia color specific to the depends on their concentration A gas that makes the air extremely This world is as hostile as it is unimaginable. The slightest storm, the slightest lightning threatens and its inhabitants. However, these gigantic forest fires, current or Carboniferous, didn't stop the giant insects That's when the fires died down Scientists are trying to find out There are several culprits in fact, like where there's not just one murderer and it's up to us to reconstruct all the surveys to try to get The modification of the atmosphere was long But since the end of the 2000s, the and their predators, It's a wonderful hypothesis. The giant insects had but we have no proof. Around the world, Scientists confront theories Finally, to explain why these giants died out. The very first fossils were found in 1880, in France, in the Allier. Preserved for 300 million years, under the surface of this pond. These Meganeuras would be the biggest It is by exploiting this disused deposit near the village of Commentry. The owner of the mine, Mr. Monyi, gave its name to the preserved specimen Meganeura Monyi. Andre Nel, expert paleontologist Watch over this precious piece. The miners were looking for the fossils And one day they fell, opening Unfortunately, upon discovering it, they So we lost the animal's head. It was the super predator of the time, predator of other insects, Large fossils remain exceptional. thousands of insects against only five Meganeura. The Meganeura had 4 wings, on each side, in front, we had a head with big eyes the eyes served him to see, its 360 degree environment, so possibly back even. To continue making the portrait we have to go back in time During the Carboniferous era, the French department of Allier studded with bald cypresses. Charged with oxygen but also with humidity, the atmosphere is extremely dense, which allows Meganeura to carry She is one of a kind but looks like dragonflies in the same superorder Odonatoptera. This is by comparing the anatomy of Meganeura that scientists can thanks to its independent wings, it must have been relatively agile in flight. Faced with this terrible predator, vegetarian insects could only rely on their discretion. Meganeura had to peak at 70 km / h She hunts on sight. As his head is independent she keeps it fixed in flight, to better reach their prey. Considering its corpulence, Meganeura Than its sharp mandibles and paws allow you to satiate. away from the public, in the Museum reserve Meganeuras. But also their herbivorous prey Could be the sign So there you have an example of a Meganeura, on which we see but above all, what is enough furnished with strong thorns, which were used precisely to stab the prey. The prey of these Meganeura was like this Palaeodictyoptera. They are large insects, there you have only one wing So you imagine the complete beast. They were the prey of these Meganeura, so large insect to escape We are indeed dealing with a race for The fossils of vegetarian insects Growth was their only chance of survival. But this battle of the giants Otherwise, paleontologists would have found The search for food undoubtedly occupied energy-intensive metabolism. According to scientists, would be due to the high concentration Insects don't breathe but by a unique system of tubes. The tracheas and tracheole, which bring directly This passive breathing Air is driven into the tissues And the bigger an insect, It is indeed bizarre that these animals because currently we don't have And in the age of the dinosaurs, so insects were much smaller. It so happens that in the Carboniferous, one thinks, for geochemical reasons, that the oxygen level in the atmosphere So it would have favored the development Meganeuras could not survive Oxygen would not reach in sufficient quantity and they would collapse. While scientists emit this hypothesis of a link between size An amazing experience finally comes It took place in a place at the forefront in the suburbs of Chicago. This is where the most powerful is An x-ray generator scanner located What if Jake Socha, the scientist cycle through the corridors, This is because the perimeter of this is more than a kilometer. Today it's insects Our principle is to use insects those who lived in the past. We tried to test according to which the level limits the size of insects. The idea is that the more oxygen it has, the more and the less oxygen there is, But no one really had yet So we used synchrotron X-rays and study the size This particle accelerator produces that pass through the body of the insect. Our goal is to observe In some cases, the tubes How we want to observe them it's really the only technology Thanks to this experience, for the first time, scientists can finally They realize the locusts use everything as seen in x-ray images. You can see this bubble in the system then step back. Every time she's in sync These movements that we see It is an active movement of the animal by muscle compression. This cricket uses contractions Like Meganeura's abdomen to absorb the thick Carboniferous air. Its elastic chitin shell once muscle action is complete. Jake Socha also studies the occupied place, through the respiratory system Subject of this experiment, scarabs of different sizes. What we discovered, occupies a much larger part of the body when the size of the insect increases. what we think is that if the animal got bigger and bigger, the respiratory system could not Because there must also be other organs. Like muscles, intestines, everything important It is impossible to have When the oxygen level drops, the giant insects would have made themselves smaller, over millions of years. And not all would have been 290 million years ago, the oxygen level drops from 35 to 23%. A rate close to that of today. Pangea already forms a supercontinent. Extended from pole to pole, it is subject to conditions At the heart of the continents, while at the equator remain During this time of change a fungus living on This white rot degrades the cellulose Gradually, plant debris They don't pile up anymore Carbon is recycled in the atmosphere This has consequences for the environment. This pivotal period will see those cousins of centipedes. But why were they The heaps that surround are the mark of its industrial past. At the Natural History Museum, tribute is paid to minors Arthropleura fossils. In particular this trace It is scrutinized by Sylvain Charbonnier, that family of species which includes insects, but also its centipede ancestors. There we have a track, That's already a sizeable organism so a beast that had to It's just a fragment of the track that No adult-sized fossils but paleontologists have found in these coal concretions. So what do you have here These are juvenile specimens, This is the complete specimen with This organism as it grows, will be able to give traces much more The Arthopleura looked like but it no longer has an equivalent in nature. This animal could reach 3 meters, and crawl on the ground or in the trees At the beginning of the Permian, Life in the equatorial forests is not Arthropleura, still finds other large animals. Like an Eryops. This amphibian spotted it thanks to the cells to detect trunk vibrations. Arthropleura to the advantage whose claws grip the bark well. And especially a shell Arthropleura does not fear predators. What would have caused his downfall, it is the drying up of the forest. Because this creature was herbivorous. These sumptuous fossilized plants The vegetation at that time, it is a type of vegetation so very lush vegetation These plants will be Arthopleura lived in You also have in front of the trunks were also found in So they had to feed Did he take them where did he climb These are assumptions, The sap seems almost to flow in these for 320 million years. Arthropleura would not have This forest environment, will tend to dry out. The climate will change and Arthropleura will lose And that's probably one of the reasons In 10 million years, atmosphere and climate sounding the death knell of the Arthropleuras 280 million years ago. But all the giant insects In 2009, the discovery of Meganeura 250 million years ago, What clues do these unexpected fossils reveal to scientists? This sumptuous landscape punctuated by the rocks is in Provence. The deposits dating from the Permian We only know about fifteen in the world as is the case here. On one of the sites explored Here we are 250 million years in Red Permian because the rocks the oxidized iron gave this red color. So we are dealing with an extremely who left their mark but who In any case for this deposit there. But fortunately, other deposits It is in an identical geological layer, that insect fossils have been For a very long time, it was thought that these and at the beginning of the Permian, but that it did not exist we were surprised to discover more dragonflies Paleontologists are surprised because at There should be no more These varied specimens preserved in the prove the contrary. There are very small Of that size. It is a modern dragonfly wings size, We have much larger species. If you have a hind wing, there it was still a giant. We have even bigger, this thing over there is pieces of a Meganeuridae wing, whose size was comparable to that So we estimated a wingspan of 60 cm. We realize that with these animals, we have it is even at this time that they We have very small ones, medium ones, That means they really weren't It does not fit the scenario of an extinction These meganeuras, were discovered in the south of France, but also in the United States. Their existence is therefore not an exception. 270 million years ago, the earth is hot and humid. With an oxygen level barely The air would seem to us Yet one animal genus continues The Meganeuras Represented This specimen discovered in Texas is also But how does this 50 cm flying insect Would he have an asset that made The Meganeuropsis fossil near Kansas City, USA. Not far from the university campus this paleontologist author of a Bible is the director of an impressive For the majority, insects living in the present world. Here are some of the biggest great moths, dragonflies, damselflies. Their size may seem impressive, but she remains modest According to Michael Engels, the key weapon of the Meganeuras, to survive in a less rich atmosphere A flying insect could more easily than an insect that does not fly. Wings are vital for movement when the muscles contract to make they exert pressure on the alveoli, promoting movement Flying gives giant insects an advantage, because the movement of the wings increases by oxygenating their active tissues. What is not the case for insects The secret to their survival would be ventilation. The wings send the air faster towards While the Carboniferous giants Meganeuropsis continues to rule the sky This Diplocaulus, had no chance of going unnoticed as soon as it leaves the water cover. Meganeuropsis whose eyes are extremely to shapes and colors, the mark. Outstanding aerial predator. Meganeuropsis survived despite The mystery of the causes of its extinction At the moment, scientists do not know when the Meganeuras disappeared. But other large dragonflies To explain the total extinction Scientists therefore turn to For if the insects were long 250 million years ago, other animals have them Jean Sebastien Steyer, paleontologist at is the French specialist in flying reptiles. In the mythical paleontology gallery, he comes looking for a primordial specimen Smaller than many other fossils, this animal discovered in Germany So this fossil corresponds which is about 250 million years old, and who bears the barbarous name It is a reptile that had developed It is to catch insects in flight that launches into the air. 250 million years ago, Swamps, springs is adorned with aquatic plants Appeared as insects in the Carboniferous, reptiles are just trying their hand Among them, the Coelurosauravus will with its sharp teeth He had quite an anatomy He has a fairly thin triangular head. At the level of the skull, we observe small which undoubtedly pierced the shells And then the main feature these are the bone chopsticks and which allowed this animal to soar We can imagine him climbing for example You can even imagine him climbing develop its wings and soar. We can imagine chases, between Coelurosauravus With these little 40 centimeters long, Coelurosauravus could not but he covets the same prey as they do. Like this Palaeodictyoptera. To hope to catch it, he must take the plunge. Coelurosauravus cannot flap its wings. To catch flying insects, he counts on the element of surprise. And his mastery of gliding flight. Any approximation is severely punished. The Coelurosauravus a first sketch of the flight, but the reptiles will soon have their revenge. This gliding reptile probably has maybe not in extinction but in any case, we have here a super predator, which attacks them regularly and therefore we can participated in the decrease in number If he's not the only culprit, Coelurosauravus would have been the first before other species invade This animal guarding the entrance is a member of the pterosaur family, appeared 230 million years ago, they too are flying reptiles. They are now totally extinct, but scientists have discovered Could they pose a threat Professor Eberhard Frey, is the global specialist Pterosaurs are flying reptiles extending from the tip of their little finger What is interesting about pterosaurs, is that the size variety She goes 20 centimeters what is unique. According to scientists, pterosaurs are rare The only ones with adapted teeth would be Among the smallest of the pterosaurs. It's hard to imagine they were hunting but probably they hunted the little ones, those who are not represented The big insects hunted so they were definitely in competition The other pterosaurs of the time and therefore did not And maybe that's why the big guys During an era called the Trias, 230 million years ago, but also in South America and Asia. For the first time in history a vertebrate family learns and not just soaring. As Anurognathus discovered in Germany, its Asian cousin named Batrachognathus, is a flying, nocturnal reptile, insectivorous, and nimble. With his flattened skull and big eyes, The Batrachognathus occupies the niche But the comparison with The oversized jaw of this living gargoyle No flying insect seems to The Kaligrama insect, with its wingspan can he compete? An experiment carried out in Germany Dino Frey collaborates with the Institute of intended to perfect this wind tunnel also tests A model of Anurognathus We are at the beginning of our research, but is that the pterosaurs flew With the wind they could reach These species were probably beating and were not excellent gliders. Flapping your wings also means and could therefore maneuver more easily. What is interesting to start With the appearance of pterosaurs, insects would have Batrachognathus thus moves away from the An impossible distance the flying lizard Coelurosauravus. Devoured by certain pterosaurs, the prey of giant insects This is a new cause of their decline. But it is not the only one. On the other side of the Atlantic, a researcher points out other culprits This paleontologist is a specialist More technophile than man of the field, He's a database geek. His investigation into the end of the giant insects has A titanic job to compare the size since the origin of paleontology. We have compiled this important database of simply by taking the articles, in which paleontologists had described them During the first part their size changes at the same time They shrink when the concentration drops This diagram is valid for the first But towards the end of the Jurassic, we see that the insects decrease in size, even if the oxygen level And it coincides quite well as Archeopteryx. The ancestors of birds appear 160 million years ago. The oldest fossils Forests of gigantic conifers offer An ecological niche quickly seized by a who tries to steal. Small dinosaurs like this Anchiornis, wear feathers on and use them as wings. The claws at the end of their limbs and to reach panoramic points. Insects need to camouflage When taking off, it becomes visible While some pterosaurs this is the case with all the ancestors of birds. More and more skilful in flight, they will become ferocious During the Cretaceous when this predation on the big Especially since they were less In addition to this stronger predation, there was competition between Especially large insects for So these two factors are likely decrease in the size of insects. This chase between an ancestor looks like the one that Like flying lizards and pterosaurs, the birds would have exerted pressure But why do giant insects to make way for the little people of today? A final fossil clue It is in a deposit close to that that it was found. In China, northeast of Beijing, volcanic eruptions that have occurred imprisoned and especially the ancestors of flowering plants. Discovered in 2002 by the paleobotanist Sun. Here in China, in western Liaoning, we found the oldest known angiosperm, which we named Archaefructus. This is the first known flower On this fossil seen under the microscope, we clearly distinguish the male organs, the stamens that contain the pollen, and the female organ, the pistil. Two features proving that this fossil plants whose seeds are enclosed unlike conifers. According to the paleobotanist, these plants were aquatic But what is the connection between and the disappearance of carnivorous insects For Andre Nel, the French paleontologist the two events would be linked. A huge number of families of insects have and others who have managed to adapt began to diversify And among the dragonflies, The key to the end of the giant insects is Because before flying, The very beginning of their life takes place under water. They exist in the larval state And like their cousins, feed on other larvae When flowering plants like Archaefructus 125 million years ago, the living conditions of the larvae change. When the withered petals sink in the water, aquatic micro-organisms take charge It thus consumes the oxygen which is no longer It is possible that these dragonflies, disappeared at that time because to this change in aquatic ecosystems, and therefore have been replaced The appearance of flowering plants would have and led to the extinction of the last The disappearance of giant insects It's not one, but many Editing composition appearance of new predators some pterosaurs and finally the birth of flowers. Today, at the start of the 21st century, only a few remain like this Chinese locust. Especially since we are at dawn man-made from the start Large insects live most They are in danger to the extent That is to say if the forest in which is in danger, of course, I really hope we continue but with the current rate of destruction especially in tropical environments it is likely that many just like the giant insects.