Studies show that anywhere between 30 and 80 the number seems slightly lower for the number a pretty hefty chunk of overlap. The disparity is slightly more prevalent or maybe slightly enough the DSM, which is the diagnostic manual about this at all. And the criteria for autism fact that there is a great deal of overlap it comes to things like, executive functioning a dual diagnosis of autism and ADHD, if you had Consequently there is very little in professional someone has both. How do they present? Luckily over the world can share their lived experiences maybe you have one diagnosis but we're Maybe you don't have any but you think both of going to talk about today. Disclaimer: I'm not you want real clarification, you probably should Just think of this video as kind of like (music) Hello everyone, for those of you who are new, neurodiversity related things right here on my early 30s. I now know that I also have ADHD and there's very little out there about what it's look like what people expect from one side or from five signs that you may, (may!) have both. Number one: a constant conflict between apparently contradictory traits. You might feel inconstant inner conflict frequently frustrated with yourself. You may crave You might get overstimulated as much as you get happen at the same time or in a very short space yourself and probably also for others around they're both part of me but sometimes they have this can result in what looks like apparently it makes perfect sense when you know what you're around you to be completely quiet and then making might appear to balance each other out at times. everyone but for many people, is that the opposing balance each other out or maybe even conceal each up. I only was diagnosed closed in my 30s because, autism often kind of gave in to the chattiness and of just appeared as if I was shy at first and then But that wasn't what was happening inside, both of not want to talk at all in a crowd but also the I have a YouTube channel which means I can talk over stimulated (ish). And while my brain is plenty for order and routine and everything being correct tidy house clear of clutter because of the visual Stresses me out to have a house that naturally if not look like a typical chaotic ADHDer, because my and calmness. Yeah right! Number three: a larger hyperfixations. Now special interest is a topic within the autistic spectrum itself. But if you're intense special interests for a shorter time. You another one. Possibly, alongside longer running That are more stable and less prone to being that autistic people can only be into one obscure exactly true. I found myself becoming extremely life so far, while maintaining, I guess, an ongoing That's one of my ongoing special interests, I did a micro fixations, which I guess is more like the into dressmaking for a few weeks and that's a when that actually happened, I struggled to sleep patterns and constructing them and figuring out I was sitting there awake at night and my brain this particular topic. The intensity of that didn't well actually it's in the cupboard behind me. So special interest is something that varies so much from person to person, but you may relate more lots of different ones and some ongoing ones than or maybe just because I have kids, like I don't intense bursts but it still happens occasionally. out at different times and in different places. school or working in an office. I believe that my of the house I'm getting some kind of novelty and satisfied because &quot;hey we're doing something new, people&quot;. But the things that I can't control out of less predictable social environment too and those struggle with. When I'm at home, in the environment possible, my ADHD traits are far more dominant. as much as I can, so my autistic side is more or pretty predictable. Dare I say, sometimes boring. noticeable to me. When I'm struggling to manage to find that kind of novelty in a really familiar also have both. This is something that is often to other people. And relating to other people is a not very easily measurable. But is something point after my autism diagnosis I felt a little meeting more autistic people and I was a bit them. I'm a bit different from them&quot;. And I much for autistic people. I talk a lot and I get be really really social. So I do actually tend to irony is that these people are often too much for from socializing and more social recovery time have a couple of friends who have a dual diagnosis or if you think you have one diagnosis but you feel it's correct but it's not everything. And you know, neurodivergent people do tend to run consciously or unconsciously. So you know, it's you may have both ADHD and be autistic. Let me have these similar experiences of being kind about your inner conflict in the comments! Take (music)