(upbeat music) - All right, Tim. - Great to see you. - Thanks for spending the time. - Thank you for coming. So you had the WWDC keynote today. - Yeah. - Which was really fun to I wanna zoom all the way out, 'cause, obviously, a lot of - [Tim] Yeah. - And I'm kind of just left wondering how Apple defines AI in general, because I know, if you you might hear about things like that. - Yeah. - And these are relatively new additions to Apple's AI portfolio. How do you look at AI as Apple? - Well, we've been executing - [Marques] Right. - It's at the, you're wearing a watch. It's at the root of the watch. I mean, you think about fall detection, things like Afib, and all of this kind of stuff is machine learning at the end of the day, and so, but what has is generative AI, and we for a whole new curve of technology and providing and doing providing an assistant for people, things that really improve people's lives. So that's how we see it. Obviously, it's not without downside, and so we approach it very thoughtfully. - Sure. - And as you heard, we have and so privacy is a very key - Right. It's been interesting to 'cause I made a whole piece, about how Apple seems to never say AI, even though they have and machine learning and things like that. - Yeah. - And so now we have almost this pivot, where now we're just saying it. We're actually branding I'm curious why that changed now. - Well, in the beginning, and throughout almost we always talk about and so the benefit to the user is crash detection and fall detection, not the technology behind the feature. - Sure. - And so we still view it like that, but it became clear that people wanted to know our views on generative AI in particular. - [Marques] Yeah. - And so we decided to embrace it and called it Apple Intelligence. - Okay. I have a quote from the Dua - [Tim] Oh, okay. - [Marques] That was great. - [Tim] It was fun. She's fantastic. - I loved it. It was great. You had a quote that said, about AI, &quot;If it can be used for nefarious things, we won't go down that road.&quot; - Yeah. - And at the time, I assumed that that meant generative 'cause of all the things what it was potentially capable of or things that it might do. Has that changed? Is that something that was off the table and you figured now or the right restrictions to make sure that that How do you think about that? - Generative AI was never off the table. It was always about pursuing and so that's what we've done, and we've implemented it in ways that are less likely to create issues. - How so? - How so? Well, things that, if you think about the kinds of things that we talked about, we talked about personal context and we talked about privacy, a comprehensive privacy to come into effect. We already view privacy as and so that's the lens that we see it at, and given that we're doing those things, personal context and privacy, we wanted to integrate it at a deep level, so you're not having to think, &quot;Oh, well, now I want to do something that uses Intelligence.&quot; We put it into the apps - Right. - And integrate it in deeply. - Right. Yeah. I think also, now, there's that there is generative AI. - [Tim] Yeah. - A lot of people have, I mean, Apple's notorious for never Everything's on device, because that is the most and was applauded for it. Interestingly, this is a With a lot of these larger you actually do have to so you've developed, I Private Cloud Compute. - Explain this to us, because I think the well, they have to be sending to get a request back from ChatGPT. - Well, there's Private Cloud Compute, and then there's the These two things are different. - Okay. - And so if you look at we're utilizing the same but the same basic architecture - [Marques] Right. - Well, that's in the iPhone. - 15. Yeah, right. - And we're using the same software, and so we believe that that it's as safe and secure and private in the Private Cloud and so we really worked on this a lot and put a lot of wood behind If you're working on something that requires world knowledge, of personal context and so forth. - Yeah. - Then you may want to go and use one of the large language models that are on the market, and we selected what with OpenAI and ChatGPT, but you'll make a conscious - Every time. - Every time. - So you can guarantee that there will never be without your explicit user- - That's right. That's right. You decide. - Right. I also feel like there of stand-alone AI devices, which They didn't land too well. I think smartphones are pretty great, but there was an interesting about using your phone less, maybe having AI help you out in ways that let you spend less and this is something you echoed also in the Dua Lipa interview. Like, if you're looking at your phone more than you're looking something's off there. - Yeah. - Do you think there's a potential future where we're using our phones less because of how well - I think it's a possibility I mean, for us, we've never to spend their lives on their devices. Our model is not one that Our model is one where to be able to do things We want to give you a tool so that you couldn't do without the tool. That's what motivates us, and so, you know, we Screen Time, et cetera, as to how much you're using your device. - True. - We come out with, we count so that you can go in and say, &quot;Do I really want this And we have focus kinds of states where you can silence and so I do believe that, as things get smarter and that you can even take things will take less time now. - Right. - And so I do think - Interesting. Yeah. It's a curious future. - It is. It is, and I think I'm - Yeah. I also feel like there was tons of chatter when you were first CEO of Apple, about this new shift, obviously, and you've been CEO for what and we're entering this new age of AI, and I'm curious now. Now, there's new chatter about who the next CEO is gonna be. What do you feel like your - Yeah, Marques, I don't think about it. - Okay. - And so, to me, a legacy is other people looking at you, not something that you define yourself. - Very fair. - And so, and I typically am always not the rear-view mirror, and that is a characteristic is we're very focused on the forward. You won't find a museum here, and yet we would have lots of things that you might like to but we just don't. It's just not a part of our culture. - [Marques] Yeah. - And so I feel the same way personally. At some point, there will be another CEO, and my whole focus in life will be on making them successful. - Yeah. I like that answer. It's a very LeBron answer. I feel like he said something- - Oh, is that right? - Yeah. All right. I wanna end with a little game. I don't know if you've seen these, where it's a blind ranking. Have you seen what these are? - A blind ranking? - A blind ranking. So we're gonna do a top five but I'm gonna give you them one at a time, and you don't know what So you have to rank the first one without knowing what two, - Oh. - And this is your ranking? - This will be your unofficial ranking, just based on your gut reaction of how you feel about the products. - All right, this is a tough one because- - It is a tough one. - It's like asking you your favorite kids or nephews or nieces. - We'll see how it goes. - Yeah. Okay, number one. MacBook Air. Had that iconic moment of, like, taking it out the envelope on stage. It's the most popular laptop - It's the most popular in the world, and that moment of taking established a characteristic about that device that lives today. The first one, it wasn't about - [Marques] Yeah. - It was about establishing - Was that the first Air product? - Of any line? - Yeah. It might have been. - I believe so. Yes. - Okay. - I believe so, and so I'm gonna fail miserably but it was a huge moment. - [Marques] Yeah. - A huge moment for the company. - The iPad. - Oh, wow. You know, tablets had been in Our objective is never to be first. Our objective is to be best. - I remember all the - And there were many and people thought many things that weren't too including the name, and yet I couldn't live - [Marques] Yeah. - And so another huge - My number three is the Magic Mouse. - The Magic Mouse. It was also an incredible moment. People don't think of that as much as they would the MacBook Air and the iPad and whatever else you're but getting the ergonomics well done was key. - With the Magic Mouse. - [Tim] Yeah. - Okay. Four out of five, the iPhone. - Oh my God. It changed the world. - It definitely changed the world. - It changed the world, and the simplicity of - [Marques] Yeah. - That were on the phone was brilliant to get people to think about it like that, and, of course, opening up, this isn't talked about as much, but, initially, you'll remember that there was not an App Store. - Right. - The App Store came a year later, and that changed everything because, now, I meet and they give me such great inspiration. There were no students in at that particular point in time. Now, the developer from an age point of and it just, fundamentally, it became an economic miracle for people, and got well outside of You look at all the businesses - Yeah, and now we have WWDC. - That's right. - Last but not least, Vision Pro. - Oh. I love Vision Pro. I was just using it last night - Yeah. What do you use Vision Pro for? I ask everybody who has - I use it for the entertainment value. I use it when I want to do multitasking, because I find the multiple windows really effective in doing this. Of course, I'm reviewing and some of those are enterprise apps, some people's proprietary apps that they wanna share with us, and I'm seeing an extraordinary number and variety of things coming far earlier than we would've predicted. - Interesting. - Because businesses - [Marques] Yeah. - And what we're seeing is is now buying Vision Pro for or exploring it. - [Marques] Interesting. - And so I'm looking at I find that it's still to look at your photos, being able to take your old photos. - [Marques] Yeah. - [Tim] And make them 3D, I - [Marques] Yeah. - And, you know, I lost both of my parents before Vision Pro came out, and look at those photos differently is something that, you know, it's an experience you can't replicate. - For sure. Well, we didn't get a blind ranking, but we got a pretty good retrospective. - Yeah. - Of some of these products. Thanks again for your time. - Thank you. when the next feature but this was fun. Thank you. Thank you for coming. - Same. (upbeat music)