May 14, 1948, in Tel Aviv David Ben-Gurion proclaims In accordance with the resolution we proclaim the foundation The Jewish people finally have a country. Three years after the fall of Nazism Jews can settle For Arabs who live on that day is that of Fleeing the fights more than 700,000 Arabs leave the country. They think However, these refugees will who searches by all means to return to the country and others call Israel. War. Clandestine army. Terrorism. Popular revolt. And repression. Suicide attack. And retaliation, and sometimes all the same The fight for this land claimed by two peoples A Palestinian teacher A student from Cairo A child from Gaza But also the son of a And a young director from Tel Aviv, Using photos this is how five destinies went through a tragedy of which we do not see the end. 1949 These are the borders of Israel. More than 700,000 Palestinians In Liban, in Syria and in two parts of the old The West Bank annexed by Jordan and the Gaza Strip Refugees are massed at the borders. They left in a hurry and they wait to go home. 1967. Eighteen years later, Concrete constructions have but the hope of a return Leila Khaled is She's a rebel, In her diary she writes. The Zionists They live in my town because they But one day we we will have this power Leila Khaled lived in Haifa, in the At the creation of Israel, his family fled the fighting Here she is with her brothers It's the smallest. It was just before he left. Since then, she has been preparing for her return. - I was doing embroidery on a canvas I did it all the time to hang it It was an illusion, that we were going to liberate Palestine. - In the 60s, Palestine by Leila Khaled Israel is a country in full swing A new generation is born, who has neither known nor On the beaches of Tel Aviv or Eilat, we are far from concerns However, in this spring of 1967, Leila Khaled has reason to believe it. In Arab capitals, Here in Egypt, President Gamal Abdel Nasser He is supported by his Soviet ally and by the Arab world The war of reconquest seems imminent. To the south, Egypt brings In the west, the Jordanian army To the north is Syria On Arab radios, Disaster will befall you. Israel will take On June 5, 1967, at 7:45 a.m., Israeli Air Force The pilots were not informed In a few minutes, The Israelis attacked first. The Egyptian air force is destroyed. On the ground, Israeli tanks press the Among the chariots, of the 45th Brigade. Uri is the son of a pioneer of Israel. His father fled Russia to escape anti-Semitic massacres. With a group of Zionists, he founded one of all Kfar Giladi, Tents, a first farm, then a whole village Uri was born here. He grew up This piece of land is his whole life. He is proud of what For him, this war - We were defending our house. We have no other place What would be They would have all of us - Israeli troops They conquer new territories. To the south, they invade Sinai and this little strip of land where are installed Among them is the Rafah camp. Refugees are far from the mode They live in another era. There is no water in the houses. Nor electricity. A few blocks from the main road 5 and a half years, His father experienced the exodus of 1948. He lived a little further north, in a village that That morning Abdel Salam when the first Israeli tanks - I was woken up suddenly. There were people everywhere. We heard the Jews entered the city. It's the panic. Nobody really knows what's going on. On the main street, I see lots of corpses. For us, after 67, - In Jerusalem too, everything will change. The Israelis are invading A dream that they during the War of Independence. After 2,000 years of exile, the Jews are again the first holiest site in Judaism. The Minister of Defense, the man with the headband and the victorious general Yitzhak Rabin The news spreads - I was in radio contact with my boss and a guy that He called all units and he told us: I was there, sitting in my tank. It did something to me that the Western Wall had been taken. Even today, - Yitzhak Rabin, the general In a few years, it will even be His triumph is absolute. - The Israeli soldier is an excellent soldier. He has the will to win. He knows why he's fighting. He has the courage to fight and training to fight. - In just six days, the Egyptian armies These images of Arab rout Not only was Israel not destroyed, but the Jewish state Soldiers of the Hebrew State in Gaza, in the West Bank, in East Jerusalem and the Golan. In 1967, the world's outlook changed. Israel is no longer the small Hebrew state Thus, in Paris, General de Gaulle launches - A people of elites self-confident and dominant. - The tone is set. Israel is no longer a victim. It has become a military power. In neighboring countries, Salah al Tamari is Palestinian, When the war begins, He does not participate because he is revising for his exams, but he listens to Egyptian radio until the day he discovers the truth. - I remember, When I arrived at my building, there was a neighbor who he was the minister of who made a That caught my attention. I stopped We got there and I realized that everything was false. The Israelis occupied the West Bank, the Israelis occupied Sinai and Arab countries I could no longer stand on my legs. I collapsed on the stairs. I was demoralized. Completely destroyed. - From then on Salah al Tamari To fight Israel, the Palestinians will not be able to but they lack an army and a leader. A training camp in Jordan. For several years now, a clandestine organization Its leader is called Yasser Arafat. He's an engineer. He was born in Egypt, but his father is Arafat never had confidence He wants to create He's still just a stranger who lives hidden in a cave with a few fighters. Everything will change Karameh is a camp a few kilometers from the border. Yasser Arafat From here, the fighters launch Among them, the former student from Cairo. - At the time, there wasn't really We were a small group. There was in particular Arafat. Every day we waited and participate which I have done several times. - March 18, 68, an Israeli school bus There are about thirty For Israel, it's unbearable. The retaliations are massive. An army of 6,500 soldiers Against all odds, Al Tamari is in charge of the resistance. - What is important in Karameh it's that we, young guys, The objective was obviously not but to prove ready to die for their country. We knew that each death and perhaps thousands of volunteers. This is indeed what happened. - After 15 hours of confrontation, Israeli armored vehicles The Palestinians are decimated. Half were killed. The others are prisoners or on the run. For the first time Palestinians resisted Israel. Hebrew soldiers are wounded, The military defeat for the Palestinians. In the eyes of the Arab world, Yasser Arafat comes out of hiding. He gives his first interviews - We will establish our own Palestinian state A state in which, everyone, all citizens, Christians, Jews, Muslims, will all live equal in fraternity. - He takes the head of the PLO, the Organization which brings together all the wrestling movements. At 40, with he now embodies Palestinian resistance. Meanwhile Leila Khaled, the young Palestinian teacher, She is not in She joined the PFLP, a more radical branch of guerrilla warfare. She is waiting for her first mission. In 69, she was finally summoned what we ask of him - My boss asked me, I said of course yes. He told me, that's not the question. Are you ready Of course, there are many of my brothers and sisters He told me, Are you ready to hijack a plane? I laughed. It was all new to me I was joking I explained to him that with a plane on the back I didn't know what that meant. He said to me, are you ready? I answered him I asked him He replied, we'll see. - August 29, 1969. A TWA Los Angeles flight Leila Khaled Among the passengers, the victorious general - It was necessary to do the question arises. Who are these Palestinians? It was clear that with a personality Israel could not ignore it. They would be obliged Unfortunately Rabin - After takeoff, the two pirates The flight that was supposed to land It flies over Israel. For the first time, Leila Khaled sees Haifa again, - I asked the pilot to get off. He descended. Military planes I said on the radio, we are the Front Repeat. The control tower guy I said, I don't understand you, He repeated it clearly, three times. For me, it was a victory. It was the first time in our lives that we heard in another language someone say - A few minutes later, The passengers are evacuated. The hijackers A spectacular gesture Leila Khaled makes headlines, but she's not going to stop there. - By hijacking this plane, we wanted to tell these people that there is a war here. This is the reason for our action To tell them, - And you intend to continue the fight for your cause? - Yes. - In the north of Israel, reservist Uri Hurvitz must leave again This time, The government recruited him on board planes. Uri imposes and armed men on the flights Measures that will change everything. September 6, 70, The El Al flight heading Among the passengers, and his accomplice Patrick Arguello, a South American activist. Despite security measures, they got on board Leila went unnoticed. She had three operations so as not to be recognized. What she doesn't know, that's what's on board - What happened, is that the Israelis started People were asked to remain calm. I ran to the cockpit. Patrick was behind me, - When the plane lands in London, Leila Khaled is but not for long. A few thousand three other planes were hijacked by pirates from Leila Khaled's group. They landed at an abandoned airport in the hands of the Palestinians in Zarqa, Jordan. This is an unprecedented operation. Four hundred American passengers, The fedayeen want to exchange them and Leila Khaled - Our demands are very clear. And we won't come back whatever happens. These conditions are the Liberation and the return of the martyr's body and their evacuation to a safe place in exchange for British hostages. - In Israel, the Prime Minister She doesn't want - What are these people going to do when will they be released? This young woman to the convent ? Is she going to get married? and raise your children? Is she going to go back to teaching? She announces it herself. She's going to start again. At least try to start again. I don't know - After six days of negotiation, They are still all Most had never In exchange, the hijackers Once again, they blow up planes. Leila Khaled is extradited to Egypt where bad news awaits him. The Egyptians cry Gamal Abdel Nasser. The man who claimed Leila lost one of her heroes, but other events even more serious occurred in a neighboring country. Plane explosion in Zarqa caused fury For some time now, who believe themselves in Their militia controls Some of their leaders even call Hussein knows he is in danger. The explosion of the planes On September 17, he launched his troops Thousands of deaths, a carnage of which and that the Palestinians will call Black September. Once again, Salah al Tamari - It was more painful When we fight against They occupied our land, This is Jordan, We are part of the same people, Unfortunately it happened and we paid a high price. - A new exodus begins. Palestinian fighters They flee Jordan This is where now intend to lead the fight. The head of the PLO will be able to count Salah al Tamari accompanies him to Beirut. Leila Khaled also goes to Lebanon. She takes care of the education These two diversions but the time of hostage taking is over. September 1972, Something is happening On the balcony, hooded men. A Palestinian commando It's called Black September It's a global event. Never the Palestinians The operation ends in tragedy. The German police attack. The hostage takers before being shot or arrested. Bloody terrorism is only just beginning. It's in this climate in Tel Aviv, Israel. His mother is a pacifist, His father is rather liberal and yet, Yariv hears about happiness the general atmosphere of the country is heavy. - When we were children because of terrorist attacks Many stories were It's like that - At the beginning of the 70s, Little Yariv has October 6, 73, it is 2 p.m. when the sound We are in the middle of the Yom Kippur fast, the Jewish festival of Great Atonement. - One of my first memories, I was two years old. I remember it because I do not know if but it's somewhere in my memories - This time, it's a new war. Egypt and Syria attack. Arab neighbors during the Six Day War. In Gaza, in the Rafah refugee camp, very close to the old little Abdel Salam has grown up. He is now 11 years old. He goes to school That day he listened - The radio started We understood what was happening We learned that I remember the mayor to check or Israeli. - The Israelis are caught off guard. Six years after the triumph the country is threatened. Reservist Uri Hurvitz, went on a mission abroad. When he hears the news, - When the Yom Kippur War I immediately returned to Israel. There is no other country in the world, nor even in the United States, Young people, everywhere, as I did, letting go of everything. - The Yom Kippur War is not just one It's a global crisis, because Arab countries have They refuse to sell In America, in Europe, The oil shock will shake up After 15 days Israel still won the war, but the country has shown its fragility. Making peace becomes a necessity. His main opponent is ready. On November 19, 1977, Anwar el-Sadat, Never an Arab leader Uri Hurvitz is at the foot of the device. He who is so proud to be Israeli, he is impressed by - When he got out of the plane, he greeted everyone, he shook hands, said hello. Then he went to see Sadat told him, you didn't think I was going to come? Here I am, and we replied, welcome! It took a lot of courage to come. He did it. Several years later, He will be murdered but for now it is a triumph - Let's decide one thing together. We have to get there. Eye to eye between us and you. We must continue so that live long enough to see - It's true that I've always said that. - You always treated me - All smiles, he jokes with Finally, Mr. President, from Let me for your new baby girl. And I thank you [Arab spoken audio] - At the same time, Yasser Arafat harangues his troops. For his own, An Arab country makes a pact with the enemy and the fate of the Palestinians - It was a dark day for all of us. Because It was the first time that someone was raping Here is a people who expelled us by force. Nevertheless, an Arab leader will negotiate with them, at our cost. - A year later, Egypt and Israel sign peace In exchange, the troops that they occupy For the first time, the Jewish state is at peace with a neighbor. In the refugee camps, Here in Lebanon, The Palestinians grandchildren who have no nationality. They are just refugees. From their birth, we teach them and that one day [Arab spoken audio] - Palestine. The return. Jihad. - They know everything about Jerusalem. From Palestinian history and its symbols. Refugees are supervised Since his exile from Jordan, Yasser Arafat made Lebanon He feels at home here. He built up a real army which multiplies the attacks The reaction of the Jewish state In 1982 Israel prepares called Peace in Galilee. Yariv is now 11 years old. He is proud to see - I was proud go serve my country and defend it. He was leaving to help us survive, him too When he came back, - Beirut, the capital of Lebanon. The Israelis besiege the city. Operation Peace in Galilee Originally, the troops were only to to secure the border, but the Israeli generals They pushed as far as Beirut. Weeks of street battles, face-to-face among civilians, in the streets of the capital. After 70 days of fighting, Fighters are evacuated from Beirut and in particular that This time he is taken prisoner. He will be released a year later during an exchange As for Leila Khaled, she is in She is pregnant - It was very hard for us. In the truck leaving for the port, I was crying the whole time. Because I felt far from our homeland. - After Jordan, Lebanon, the Palestinians Yasser Arafat sets sail for Tunisia with 4,000 fighters. Their family stays there and a new drama awaits them. A few days in the camps hundreds of women The men of a the assassination of their leader, the new Lebanese president. Carnage! The Israeli army was there. She let it happen. In Israel, 400,000 people This is the biggest event Yariv is in the crowd with his parents. - It was gigantic. There were a lot of people. There was a lot of anger, and people were ashamed. I think they wanted to show the world and they were against - Israelis are confused. They can't stand the idea that They believed themselves to be victims. They find themselves aggressors and they will soon discover that the revolt is brewing at their doorstep. The Gaza Strip in 1987. Little Abdel Salam He just turned 26 Life in Gaza reminds us from Jordan or Egypt with one difference. It is a territory occupied since The patrols of Abdel Salam can no longer stand them. - We have lived in this camp forever we see patrols all the time. It's like a wall between you These soldiers are an obstacle and you can't leave. - On December 8, 1987, everything changed. Residents take to the streets throw stones A trivial accident This is the start of the Intifada. An Arabic word meaning uprising. Abdel Salam has a camera. He films and sometimes, - It's the first time that to throw them away. I did it too. I put my camera down and I threw stones, at least five or six. It had become obvious. We had to throw stones. The reason is very simple. It's to tell them Your language is different. You have a uniform You behave badly towards me. You close the door. You close the window. No more busy. The message is very clear. Faced with stone throwers, Yitzhak Rabin, He is Minister of Defense. Like the others, Rabin is taken by surprise. He is convinced that He chooses firmness. He recommends to He even expressly asks them to beat the stone throwers Far from the tumult, in Tel Aviv, Yariv Horowitz has become a teenager. He takes advantage of his At 18, like any Israeli citizen, he must do his In the midst of the Intifada, he was sent As it is part of the army cinema, propaganda films are ordered from him. - One day they sent me to boost the morale of the troops. They were at the end of their military service it must have made them It was meant to be - The interviews are going to get out of hand. In front of him, the soldiers confess. They say they are that they become bullies. - They told me what they were doing. They were frustrated with who threw stones at them without catching them. How they caught them - We take to the street. We see a group and quietly playing backgammon. We pass, we overturn their table and we start hitting them. We knew that as soon as we passed, they would have called us fags and Israeli bastards. That they would throw stones at us. So we typed them first because afterwards we - When I showed the film to my bosses, they were shocked. Because no one imagined that. From our point of view, the Israeli army Morality was its basis. We are Jews. We survived When I came home, Kids aged 18-19, and I too was 19 years old, who had completely lost their minds. - Yariv's film is an electric shock The Israeli parliament to stay more than but every day of Intifada, the gap between Arabs and Jews September 13, 1993, the White House. After six years of stone war, finally an immense hope. Yasser Arafat was surprised To avoid being overwhelmed, In front of him, the new He understood his mistake. The Intifada is not Between them, there is Bill Clinton's America which plays a decisive role. The first Gulf War Since 91, the Americans are convinced that must be pacified Everything is not settled, After months of they will sign an agreement Israelis commit and the West Bank. Ultimately, these territories could The whole world is waiting for the event. The handshake between - When I was watching television, I saw the images bleeding. I saw the blood of the martyrs, all those who died in combat. When Arafat shook Rabin's hand, I hated him at that moment. - For us, when it is necessarily accompanied by blood. When we see him shake Rabin's hand, we have very mixed feelings. I remember Arafat This was a big question in Israel and the break before He's like that and then he says to himself, come on, let's go. - The time for peace has come. We will have fought you, you, the Palestinians. We tell you today, high and loud. Enough blood and tears. Enough ! - Some months later, Yasser Arafat, the leader of the fighters, He makes a triumphant entry into Gaza. He will soon be the first Abdel Salam now has four children. He became a cameraman It's an unforgettable day. - Since my childhood, He was our hero, the very symbol of our resistance. I believed in that day, I felt very strong things. I made pictures of faces happy people. We tell ourselves that peace can succeed. I'm very optimistic at this point. In the euphoria of the negotiations, Salah al-Tamari, For the first time he can return The case of Leila Khaled is more complicated. Israel does not want She gets exceptional authorization - As soon as I saw the Israeli flag, it was terrible for me. This is the first thing I wanted to see mine. I went there I would never have It was as if even though I didn't know anyone. - Leila Khaled goes to Gaza to participate Abdel Salam is there. He films his interview. - Will you go to Haifa? I do not think so. I'm not allowed to go there. - When we see a woman like and we see it there, we say to ourselves that maybe maybe this is the beginning of peace. That the Israelis That the Palestinians That we are at the beginning of a new era. That's not what happened. November 4, 1995, the place of the Kings of Israel The biggest demonstration It's a rally for peace. Side by side, On the podium, He didn't expect such a crowd. Since shaking Arafat's hand, part of the Israelis - We will not we are going to do it too. Sing the song of peace. - The few words of A few seconds later, he leaves the platform. A Jewish extremist His supporters are appalled. In the eyes of the world, Even the American president - Yitzhak Rabin was and my friend. I admired him and I loved him very much. Because words cannot I will simply say goodbye my brother. Goodbye My friend. On the kibbutz of Kfar-Guiladi, Uri Hurvitz is 68 years old. He is having a peaceful retirement He knew the Prime Minister well. Rabin had come to participate in ceremonies - It was horrible. I don't know how to express my feeling on this wild animal that killed him. I was really bad, not just me, all of Israel. We lost a leader. He was truly a great leader. - The assassination of Rabin is already in a bad way. These successors did not Some like Ariel Sharon even openly declare are the largest More and more Jewish settlers They want to make it impossible and they say it openly. - This is our country, this is not Palestine or the Palestinian state. It's Israel. I am Jewish and we have and stay wherever you want. On the Palestinian side too, the peace process Yasser Arafat For a while now, radical Islam from Iran gains influence Arafat is overtaken by who refuse negotiation with Israel. Most important This party has become essential by getting involved in Little by little, fundamentalism - I remember my sister dresses, short skirts. Now women are all the same, in black. - On both sides, tension rises. Everything is ready for a new explosion. Fall 2000, a new Intifada begins. This one has nothing left Very quickly, she Guns have replaced stones. Street fighting The suicide attack is Suicide bombers who claim to be get blown up Everytime, the same panic scenes and the same images of carnage. Yariv Horowitz, the young Israeli became a director. He lives in the neighborhood He is afraid to leave his house. We were afraid all the time. It was twice a week, We never knew. There was an attack It was everywhere. It was depressing. Really depressing. With each attack, Israel responds with violence. Entire neighborhoods are When Israel launches an operation Abdel Salam He sees his childhood neighborhood Here he is in a t-shirt That day, - The Israelis destroyed everything. I couldn't even anymore All my friends, my primary school destroyed. School is terrible. We have lots of memories. We can't find anything anymore. It's like my story is dead because someone It was like that in Rafah. I couldn't believe it. - Yasser Arafat, the old Palestinian leader, Hamas does not recognize its authority Israelis do not He is ill. At the end of October 2004, it is evacuated to Al Tamari, the commander of Karameh, - I had dinner with him a day before It was Ramadan. I was the only one to share this meal with him. He was really very weak, and when he left, Arafat never lacked courage. He followed through with his ideas and if our movement personally. It was someone with the Israelis. With the death of Arafat, the Palestinians have lost their leader. Disappointed with the process they turn massively For Europe and America, even after a democratic victory. They cut The situation is getting worse. Fatah and Hamas get into a war It's mostly in Gaza In 2005 Israel Army withdraws from Gaza Even the Jewish settlers They are forced to abandon their home. Their protection is too expensive. Israel no longer wants Gaza. Palestinians celebrate However, these images are illusory, because Israel remains in control and therefore the region's economy. In 2007, when Hamas takes power. Israel imposes The Gaza Strip is nothing more than a huge prison. Since then, every week, and Israel responds with On December 27, 2008, the planes of After a six-month truce, This time it is a new war. Israel wants to end it and with Hamas. Hebrew chariots like in 1967. In 60 years of violence, peace has not made much progress. Like this wall A wall of more than 700 kilometers which will soon wind around the entire West Bank, A security barrier to protect themselves from say the Israelis. A wall of shame say the Palestinians. Today Uri Hurvitz is 82 years old. The pioneer's son still has the same confidence in his country. He is faithful to Whatever happens, he intends to end his life there. At 37 Yariv Horowitz no longer the little Israeli He is a prominent director in Tel Aviv. He returned to the soldiers He made a film about it Salah al Tamari is 65 years old. The Cairo Student is now governor of Bethlehem, the city where he was born. A city disfigured by the wall. Abdel Salam Shehadeh The little boy who became boss He lives cut off from the world As for Leila Khaled, The young teacher become a hijacker is now 64 years old. She still lives in hope to return to Haifa one day, the town of his childhood.