- Let's do this, finally! Normally, nobody gets to see this. (twangy adventurous music) Welcome aboard Motor Yacht Loon. (twangy adventurous music) - [Rico] Oh, wait a minute. Wait a minute. - I'm pretty sure most of you are already watching her channel. - Fun, you should have seen the clients. - We'll never hear the end of it. - Do you have the - Yes. - Yeah. (laughs) (energizing music) - So follow me. - How did this become his tour? (energizing music) (bell tolling) You have to pay attention (twangy adventurous music) I don't think I've ever - You should go look at it. Yeah, behind the scenes. Behind the scenes. Show the real stuff! - Nice. - [Rico] Do you ever - I guess I'll find out. - Yeah. - Good but not so good. Engineers are not gonna like us right now. - Even if the boat is complete in a wreck, which it's not, it's not. - [Rico] So can anybody just go in there and pick something? - I figured. - Yes? Yep, let's do it. (logo splashing) (bird chirping) All right, let's do this finally. Let's go find Captain Paul. (distant fan whirring) - [Rico] I think I saw - It's the best spot. It's not as windy. It's what I would be. Hello, Captain! - Hey. - Where do we start? We're ready. - Let's go to- - You done the intros? - I think it's best we go from the top. We'll work our way down. - All the way up? - All the way to the top. - Four flights, let's go. - [Rico] Four flights? - Four flights. - [Rico] Aye Yai Yai. (twangy adventurous music) - That's one. - It's actually three from that deck. - It's three. - Still gonna take a break though. - Don't overpromise! Two. - [Rico] Two. - Get out of breath by the time we get up. - [Rico] Now watch out. I'm It's a little windy today. you guys, super, super windy. So it's gonna be a really Wow! (cheers) (Rico laughing) - [Rico] It is really windy. - Like The Weather Channel, right? - You're holding on. - Coming to you from the crow's No, I'm just kidding. So how is this space used? - So we're up on the sun deck right now. This is, if you want a get away, you come up here. We've got the new captain's chairs that we just installed. Coming in and out of marinas, ports, when we're pulling into Come out here. - That's it, go on. Try it, you gotta try it out. - Yeah. Don't have to ask me twice. Hey, there are three, - Yeah, come on in. - Exactly, here. - Wow, look how windy it is, you guys? - It's really windy, so in front of the microphone. Hopefully, you can hear me. I can see the bow and the forward mast. Very cool. in the up right now. So we've obviously got a And I mean, this is such a pulling in and out of marinas, watching the sunset while underway, so. - How do the guests fight for this? - The three most important people get it. (Rico laughing) - We already paid for the charter, right? - That's it, yep. - All right, so how do we do the tour? - So I'm gonna leave you guys alone. You guys, free reign of the boat. Go check it out. I like it. I've got some work to do in the bridge. so have a have at it. at the bridge though. - We can't do the bridge without you. - Cool. - Okay, awesome, we have - I'll see you there, go for it. - Let's do it. - [Rico] Thanks, Paul. Okay, so I'm wanna talk about this. Look at that. How big That's massive. - [Rico] I don't know, but I wanna say it's at least 10 feet. - [Victoria] It's 10 feet. - [Rico] You know, maybe - [Victoria] Yeah, maybe. - [Rico] I think the one - [Victoria] I think what - [Rico] Okay, anyways, - [Victoria] Their radar - [Rico] Of course, it's way bigger. I'm not surprised. And then we got all of our antennas, navigation light, search lights, all the fun stuff up there. So let's get out of the wind And start there. (twangy adventurous music) - [Rico] Oh yeah, that is- - Welcome to the peace Oh, it's beautiful. All right, where do we start? This is a big boat, so we're I gotta say, I don't know, we just did a quick, like, run-through, and it felt, like, some things - Yes. which I, it took me a moment So pretty cool, so this is our- - [Rico] You look so little behind there. - What? - [Rico] You look so little behind there. - I am little. Ready? - Okay, so we have a deep sink here. There's a drink fridge which basically services our, not jacuzzi, what's the word? - Hot top. Yes, this is a really deep hot tub as well. and we did a little snoop tour Peek, sneak peek. - [Rico] Sneak peek before, there was no water actually in here. And this is really, really deep. - It's huge, I mean, you can It's super nice. You have a little seating but it's pretty minimalist deck here, but it's nicely protected for sure. When it's windy like this, you can still have a - [Rico] So the way this yard is designed, there are no side decks on this level. So it should just go all the way over to the starboard side here. There is a little bit of where you can just step on, but it's for the crew, - Yes. - [Rico] From here, you can only go down the exterior stairs or- - On both sides. Or we take this door behind you. - Let's do it. (door clicking) - [Rico] Wow, this is a serious door. - Yes, come on in. Okay, so we're coming into like, not a crew area, but - [Rico] Well, this is - This is a day head. - Day head, yeah. Check this out. It's big. - [Rico] A really pretty one. (chuckles) - It's a pretty one. Okay, and then right here, we do have some crew cabins, right? - [Rico] Okay. - So this is captain's cabin, I believe. Can, it's open. He told us we can explore. Okay, yes, check this out. - [Rico] That's a nice cabin. - Yeah, so he's got a and nice TV, check that out. Yeah, like, nice movies, movies in bed. Looks like he's got an Little, even like a little seating chair. - Yeah, that's the word I'm looking for. And that's first mate's cabin, I believe? - [Rico] Yes. - The doors are open, so I feel like we can just peek in. I know you guys are super because just in case you don't they have their own super cool where they do behind the scenes and just stuff that, you know, you don't really get to see on YouTube, and they really take you guys there and do a really, really cool, just a deep dive into that whole world. So if you're interested in I pop it in right here But yes, it's one of those rare occasions that you actually get to - [Rico] And funny, always on social media for a long time. - Yeah. the first time meeting in real life. - I know. - Super excited to do that. Okay, so as we're walking forward, we do have this internal - [Rico] So that's a - Yeah, that's beautiful. Look at all this lighting they have. - [Rico] I really like the spotlighting. I gotta say. point them where you like. - And then we walking into the bridge. And there he is! That was really quick. - Hey! Yeah. - Somehow I thought it I don't know why. Bridge is normally the highest and yeah, didn't get lost? No! No, not yet. - Okay. we might a little bit. So show us around the bridge. - Yeah, so typical big superyacht bridge. We've got the five big Hatteland screens, all touch panels here in the middle. I've got my Conning station. This allowed when I'm driving the boat. This is what it is. Most superyachts don't have a wheel, so I don't have a standard wheel. - Yeah. You know, I wanna go, wanna turn to port, we turn it to port, straighten And you might be like, &quot;Well, how do you know what you're doing?&quot; You look up here, and I've - Yep. World's smallest little fiddles, so. - [Victoria] I know, it's like (hums). - That's pretty cute actually. (all chuckling) - Yeah. I mean, as long as it works, You don't need to have a huge. - He's very excited about - Yeah, DATA steering. - [Victoria] Yeah. - We're gonna have on ours, I mean, not the same thing, but it's also just a small wheel. - His is bigger. - Yeah, (laughs) come on. - The wheel is bigger, yeah. - Yeah, it's whoever has - Yeah, yeah, that's what - [Victoria] Oh yeah, But the bigger license. - Yeah, then we'll just have for quick steering or something. - Yeah, so yeah, we've - Oh, you got it, yeah. - [Rico] Paul, what's your license? I'm a Master 3000, so 3,000 gross tons. - [Victoria] Chew on that, 200 ton. - I'm not even 10% of that. (all laughing) Just 200. - Yeah, hey, it's all you guys need, so. - Yeah, yeah. what else you guys got here? - Yeah, and then we've got the Actus, so we're a fully paperless bridge as we are a large commercial vessel, where we run Transcends. So right now, let me come. It's in Port Everglades So as you can see, all the You can see all the AIS targets of the hundreds of boats around us. And then we also run TIMEZERO as well. - Furuno. It's just much more user-friendly, and we can get our weather updates and just play with it a lot more without disrupting the X and S-band radars on either side. Got the camera system So we're always watching. - Yeah. everywhere we are. That's only a small I think there's 30. there are a lot more, yeah. - [Victoria] What I've seen some footage of some other crew members is what I love. - [Victoria] When they, and you get to actually I love that. That is the best. - Absolutely the best. - Someone falls in the water. - Yeah, it's so good, so good. - We saw that. - [Victoria] What's that on camera? Yes. - Yeah. - It's always on camera. - [Victoria] So behind like, right there, huh? - Yeah. - Hi, ya. - Okay, so I'm the content creator on board Motor Yacht Loon. It's such a cool experience. And what I get to do, I fly all the drones over do all the editing and the Instagram. - [Victoria] So this is your office? - Exactly. - [Victoria] Well, not - Not a bad place. - Yeah. Loon's Instagram account? - Myself and... Yeah? You know, usually, it's between Steve, me, and Maxine. or someone's like, &quot;Man, I would really like to communicate with Captain Paul,&quot; would you be able, would - Yeah, it's usually one of the two of us in the Comment section and the DMs. - Yeah, that's responsive. - So if you wanna flip that - [Victoria] This is - Yeah. - [Captain Paul] There it is, yeah. - Boom. - Ah, yes, yes. - We'll race you to it. - We actually just got our NautiGuys button. - Correct. And we unboxed it today, so. - Wow, what a great feeling. Second button, yeah. - It's just so hard just, like, because it's a hundred That was already an achievement, but now, we have to get another - [Captain Paul] Yeah. - It's a big step. - It's a lot of pressure. a 500,000 button. - I know, I know. anybody could do it. - That's it. - Yeah. All right, what else is here? - Navigational station yet again. This is, well, two completely So how it works with the is you have to have two So if one goes down, you do have a backup. - Yeah. - So this is where we do So at the moment, I'm actually doing a transatlantic passage. So if you wanna look here, And oh, sorry. And that's what we're planning on doing. Going all the way across the Atlantic next week into Gibraltar. And you flick the Weather on. And that's what it's looking like. So I can actually hit Play. - And you can watch us - [Victoria] Ooh. - That didn't look like fun, did it? - [Rico] That looked like some - [Captain Paul] Right. - Actually sideways following. So that's 50 odd knots So we might actually have to to stay out of the way of that one. But at the moment, we're still what 10 days away from departure. Yeah. It might change though. - So we're just... - Yeah, and so we're - [Victoria] I'm sure you're filming this so people can follow. - [Victoria] Nice. - Yeah, we normally do it maybe a three-part series, so. - So how long does it from here to Europe? - This was 14 days. - From Florida to Gibraltar is 14 days. And then Gibraltar, we then go straight into south of France, and that's about another 3 1/2 days. - Yeah. of the cheapest fuel in the world. So we always stop there before we continue on into, - [Victoria] Makes sense. - Let's do it. wanna be when you were a kid? - A yacht captain, what else? - [Victoria] Seriously? - Or boats, anything to do with boats. - Really? - [Victoria] At what age did - 17. - Oh wow. in the shipyards in Perth, - Crazy, okay. - Do you ever get tired - No. (all laughing) - [Victoria] That's a no! - Joking. (hands clapping) No, I mean, most of the time, it's me actually being like, &quot;Steve, grab the bloody camera.&quot; (Victoria laughing) Yeah, this is cool, film this. - Yeah, yeah. I'm sure will say, &quot;Absolutely yes.&quot; - Yeah. it's part of it, we love it, and then we love bringing - So you were a big part behind actually getting this YouTube - Yeah, so I started the and we always wanted to do YouTube, but it's just the actual time, I'm sure you guys know I mean, every video is probably you know, film, edit, produce, So to be able to do that - Yeah. - So now I have Steve. It's I can just yell at him all day. (Victoria laughing) - [Victoria] I was like, &quot;That's his job. He's supposed to do it.&quot; - Yeah, hit me. Do you have the hardest job on the boat? - No, I've got the best job on the boat. - Yeah? Okay. No, all the crew have some great jobs. - [Victoria] I won't be asking the rest of the crew this question, so. - I got told off in an earlier video 'cause I said the chefs had - [Victoria] Oh! - And you should have seen the comments. - Oh. the chefs have the So yeah, Nina, we love you. (all laughing) - Okay, all right. Anything else at the And then we're gonna head out. - No, nothing else particularly exciting. Nav lights, fire control panel. All the lightings. Over here is second officer's And then we've got our - [Victoria] Call him - Bjorn, come on, man. Clean this up. - [Victoria] There you go, nice. All right, so where do we go from here? - Check out the wing stations. - Yeah, let's do it. really cool, so we come out here. - [Victoria] We've a bunch of times. - This seems very familiar actually. - So what we do, this boat and clean, we have foldaway wing stations. Yeah, so they pop up, and it comes out. So it gives me about three feet extra out the side of the boat so I can see the whole way down the side. - [Rico] That is really cool. - [Captain Paul] And you like Yamas over there, how its wing station which is great in design, the water boats in the Mediterranean, I mean, wing stations So it's a- tied up in this heavy weather, and you start rolling a little bit. - Exactly. - Yeah, there we go. - So you trust us? - Yeah, go for it. You first! - I'm kidding. I'm standing here. It's great 'cause I can lean out. I can see all the way down to the back. - [Rico] Does it hold both of us? - Yeah, come on in. - [Captain Paul] Yeah. - [Rico] I mean, yeah, you - Exactly. - [Rico] That's a good spot. - And then I just got and I can just see the engine RPMs. You don't need to get too It's all I need to tie it up. - Very cool. All right, going forward? - Yes. - Okay, so we have a wraparound Portuguese bridge right here. And then obviously, we'll but not quite there, but - [Rico] So do you actually use that, the walk-around, really? - Guests don't really come here. I often will run this way rather than going through the middle if I'm changing wing stations. But it's really just a crew area. We have tons of storage It's where we store a lot of And so yeah, but otherwise, Sometimes the girls between, you know, when they've just to get a bit of outside time. - Nice! All right, let's keep going. - Okay, should we go back? (gentle music) - Okay, so then we're going down the main staircase, right? - Yep. We'll see you guys later. - Perfect. - Thank you. - [Captain Paul] Good luck. - If you don't hear from us in 30 minutes. - I got Paul's number. (Rico chuckling) All right, going down one deck. (gentle music) All right, aft or forward. - [Rico] I wanna say- - I wanna say forward. - Okay. All right, so we did like a Some of you that know this and if we say something wrong, just call us out in the Comments. We just did a quick little So this cabin, oh, this is to start a tour off the guest areas. - [Rico] Oh, that's really cute. - Technically, this is an in terms of, like, the - Staff cabin, staff cabin. - Yep. Like, a guest or owner's staff cabin. - [Rico] Could also be dive - That's why I said overflow, yeah. But everybody on this boat, have some kind of another skill. Like, they either a dive or besides their, you know, So I feel like they if you guys watch their channel, you'll see they all have But yes, this would be something that comes with the guest usually. Or like a kid. A kid You know, like a teenager? Great, right? All right, so we have our head here. Shower, let's start with the first shower. Wow, it's a big shower really. Two-person shower for sure. - [Rico] Oh, that's - Check, and there's Nice, a wardrobe. What's here? (Victoria knocking) (door creaking) - [Rico] Restricted area. - Restricted area. Okay, and then- - [Rico] This is cool here. It's like this Venetian, what's - I think so. Some kinda storage here. And then we're walking Technically, on this vessel, they have a two-story owner's suite. - [Rico] So this is the - Correct, and the actual owner's bedroom part is underneath. - [Rico] That's cool. - Yes, that is unique. And it's something I before from their Super cool, right? So you can use it as your, You can use it as an office if Hopefully, when you come you're not working. But as we know, a lot of us So what's here? Oh, that's just a piece of art. - Yes. for a moment. - Okay. a nice lounge area with sofa. And then, wow, look at this desk. - I know, and you have They actually can go out - [Rico] Correct. - Which I feel like we need to do. Watch out, it's windy. - Okay. - So they are getting prepared to go across the Atlantic to go to Europe. There is an outboard stored here, so just don't pay attention to that. This is pretty cool. Look This is awesome. So you have a whole sitting area here. We have two sun pads here by Sorry, I'm holding my hat So follow me. (wind whooshing) - How did this become his tour? Whoa! - All the way forward. As you guys can see, forward mast. So we are over 50 meters. You're required to have the forward mast. Yeah, don't get in trouble. (bell tolling) And then look at this here. This reminds me of a submarine So it goes all the way in there. There's lots of work going on. - [Victoria] Whoa. - Huge workshop down So this would be a non-guest area. This is the working foredeck. And then walking further forward, of course, we have our bollards You see we have the bow lines on right now because we're starboard too. And then we have a cap stand here helping us to pull some of the lines and to pull, you know, to the dock. So let's go back because (wind whooshing) Okay, let's go. - Okay. (twangy adventurous music) - [Rico] Oh, wait a minute, wait a minute. We didn't even talk about this. Did you see this horn? - Oh! - Are you jealous right now? - How do we not sound - [Victoria] I'm gonna have - Yeah, I think we have to. That's five trumpets, wow! Okay, let's go back - Hi, what are you doing? - I'm just actually about to We've had some guys working in it today, so I just wanna have a quick squeeze to see what they've done, but yeah, this is- - [Rico] Oh, this whole thing? - There's two of them. One on that side, one on this side. So one tender there, one tender here. They both open up, and we just launch them over the side. - Wait, didn't we just Do it, do it. to the other side where - Wow. how this works. - [Rico] So that's all - Yeah, yeah, there's two You'll see them come up now. This is nice and light. It's a fiberglass-made roof, But yeah, there's our baby. - Oh, wow. - Our crown jewel. - [Victoria] I did not see this coming. - [Rico] This is huge. - Okay, the Jet Ski's there too. - Yes. - Two Jet Skis, so we've which operates so we and then we pull the Jet Skis across. And when we do that, pop We do also have a standup along with our rescue tender, and then our bigger - How long does this whole thing take for you to put 'em all out? - We're pretty competitive, so we like to time ourselves. (all laughing) - [Rico] Safely, of course. - Yeah, safely, of So the quickest we can get all the toys, the pool in the back, all of that is 25 minutes. - Wow. - Yeah, it's really when you get to an anchorage, you want the guests to be able to get out and have fun as quickly as possible, so. - That's fast. - We're competitive, we get it done. Yeah, and that way, the guests get to enjoy as much time as possible. - All right, quick lightning round. - Yeah. when you were growing up? - A surfer. - Surfer? So this was the closest I could get to being in the water all the time. - [Rico] It's a very large - Yeah. Okay, what do you love You kind of answered it, I guess, but- - Yeah, well, just being on the water. Just being on the water, in That's my vibe, so I love it. That's why I love this so much. - Yeah. in the water, go surfing behind it or teach a guest how to surf - Okay, do you have the - Yes. - Yeah. (laughs) - [Rico] Nice. - I guess I'm not gonna ask - Well, Paul would probably but when he can't fix So technically, then I - Then you're stuck with it. - [Rico] Good point, good point. - Ask your question. - [Rico] Do you ever get which is constantly getting filmed? - Yes and no, it depends. I mean, if you are physically tired and someone sticks a camera in your face, sometimes it's not the But you know what? It's showing everyone else what we do. - [Rico] Yeah. - I sometimes get tired, and then I get a message &quot;Wow, the show this week was amazing!&quot; And then it just makes me super stoked that they actually get - Like, that the real &quot;Below - Exactly. like the real life more so. - Yeah, so. - Yeah. a controlled drama. Yeah. which obviously things break down. There's a lot of mechanical - Oh, for sure. - So it's just the nature. I mean, things go wrong There's a lot of moving and a lot of very skilled people to make sure that things don't go wrong. So yeah, there's drama, We work in a job that is isolated from the rest of the world a lot of times. So to be able to show people that does make me quite happy. - Awesome, well, thank you so much. I'm glad we got to see that. - And we'll see you later. - [Rico] I just saw something else, which we didn't see on the bow. - What? covered in here and it's hidden. It's the anchor chain and the windlass. - Oh yeah, right there. - That's actually under deck, - Yeah. It's great because it hides It's quite a dirty business anchoring. - Yeah. - And this way, we can get it done without them even knowing, you know, besides maybe a bit of - [Rico] So you anchor - Yes, yeah, anchor with the hatch down. - [Rico] Oh, I see there. I see there's hatches So you can see where - Yeah, pop your head And then we've got some cameras there, so the port can see what the - Yeah. so even when we're not we're still watching us on a camera. (all chuckling) But yeah, so it works very well. - [Rico] Very cool. - All right, see you later. - Lovely to meet you guys. Take care. You guys have a good crossing. - Thank you. (gentle music) - All right, we're back in. It's nice and quiet here. So we will show you that owner's Just remember that there's a staircase that directly connects this space. Pretty special. - All right, let's go. Now, we're going aft. - [Rico] Going through the main staircase. - So now we have another Is that a state room? No, no, no, no. That's not a state room, this is a VIP, correct? - Okay, this is a VIP cabin. It's got a queen size bed. Have a really cute little There's a bunch of hanging lockers. I don't know what's in, so I'm - [Rico] Of course, a TV and a en suite. - Oh, this is really Look at the window in this, whoa. It's beautiful. Rain shower head, of course. - Wow. And the stone work is beautiful. - It's really nicely done, I agree. It's absolutely gorgeous. Okay, so that's our VIP cabin. - Correct. - Starboard side. - [Rico] I don't know what it's called. - It's not the bridge deck. It's not the main deck. the bridge deck. And on this side, we've Check it out! Immediately, our attention's drawn to this short-cycle dishwasher has totally made us put So I can't wait for you We finally met in person, so okay, anyway, so what do we have here? There's dishwasher, there's It's just pantry, look. - [Rico] Kinda cool, you of the side boarding area, so you see if a guest comes or leaves. - So this is where we because you could get lost. So this here goes up to our bridge. - And then this here - [Rico] So this is the second staircase, secondary staircase. - This is the crew's staircase, exactly. So now we're gonna go and then all our crew areas they're underneath us. - [Rico] Yes. - Okay, let's go to the galley first. So you have a side door with provisions and - [Rico] So this is the main deck just in case you got lost already. - Yes, and you come straight - [Rico] And this is kinda cool too, yeah. We see who's on board - Hello! Hello. - [Rico] Okay, another YouTuber. - Another YouTuber. Another, another - I'm pretty sure most of you are already watching her channel, but we finally get to meet in person. - We did, I walked into the - And I was like examining her dishwasher. - She's already in the spice cupboard. - Spice, yeah, exactly, yes. I feel like I've been here 'cause you've Zoomed with us. Yeah, I Zoomed from here. - Yeah. we've been here. this galley seems actually - Yes. - So good. - It smells, and in person, than on video. - What are you making? - Scratch and smell. This is crew dinner. So I'm making crew dinner. They got like- - Italian chicken with They've got a goats They have a couscous salad. And I'm doing some collard greens. - Wow. - And pepperoni. of the reasons that people the crew side, you don't get - And I think the crew take - Yeah, you join at the start, I'm getting cool stuff. get used to it. - And then they get used to it. - Yeah, and you're like, it's just this and that.&quot; I'm like, &quot;This looks like a really nice restaurant meal, so.&quot; - [Rico] So who decides the crew menu? - Usually the sous chef when but because we don't have one right now, it's me, I decide. - Got it. - And are you pairing or do you want to cook some like- - Definitely, like, a But I love a burger I made them poutine the other day, it's chicken, fries, and gravy, you know? - I know, she's making us hungry. - So yeah. her channel, which is, like, I'll put it right here, and you guys go, and She's got a really, really - TheCrewChef. she is anymore. - Yeah, I know, everyone but I'm crew and I'm a chef. - I know. - Yeah, just keep it. Keep it. I should keep it. It makes sense. - So I feel like there's videos out there of this galley on your channel, - A quick rundown. - Yeah, real quick. These are my fridges. These We have two fridges, - She's talking about like these are my dogs. - I love these. Please - What are these? - [Rico] Some commercial, huh? - What's the brand? Oh no, I actually don't It's like sunken in. - And it's not even on any of the hinges. Mystery brand. - Yeah, how big are they? - Big enough. - Yeah, I would say probably 900, 900. - What else is here? - So we have- - Yeah. (lid rattling) - [Victoria] Oh! - This is where our little this is the fire suppression system. So, if the deep fat fryer goes on fire, there's a special lid here. (shushing) And it just goes over the fat fryer. - We don't have that on our boat. - [Rico] Nope. - That's cool. Two MKN ovens. These girls are a bit older, They're combi, so you can see all the different functions up here. So that's normal heat, and that's just steam. And they have a cleaning function. (hums) Fantastic. helped us design our galley on our yacht. And immediately, when we she was like, &quot;You gotta have this MKN.&quot; - And I was like, &quot;Girl, I think it's...&quot; Well, first of all, I think for what we have going on. I think you are overestimating us. We're still just small, but yes, I had to be, like, tap the - [Rico] But we did get a steam oven. - We did get a steam oven because of you. - Perfect. - This is the hotline. - Yeah. we have our deep fat fryer, and our extraction system up here. And underneath is just all storage, like pots and pans and This is the dishwasher. - Ta-da. - It's very noisy, so We'll stop that again. Sorry, sorry. of these, I think the new model of this. - That was the one that Nina said like, &quot;You have to have a - Yeah, and it was a big splurge, but I feel like it's gonna pay off this. - This, yeah, it pays off big time because otherwise, you washing dishes rather than cooking. So yeah, any chef is gonna be like, &quot;Yes.&quot; Great, my favorite It is my herb and spice cupboard, which is good, I think. spice cupboard? - I mean, I don't know if I but at least- that's a lot of quantaties. It seems like you like Chili, chili, Aleppo. chili, there's more chili under there. - [Victoria] But one thing that you have them like in rows. - I do because I find cumin, coriander, and turmeric altogether. I'll typically use onion, garlic and onion powder together. And then at the back, I've got, - [Victoria] It's double deep. (laughs) - I've got, like, the - Tandoori, really? - I've got all my Middle - [Victoria] This is - And that makes total of sense, basil, oregano, rosemary. all the herbs here together. - Wow, look at that. We're geeking out on that. - Yeah. geeking out on herbs and spices. - This is typically where I work, this station. - And the sous chef usually corner just over here, so. - Got it. - We both close to, like, I like being close to the sink. Yeah, that's pretty much it. We've got the KitchenAid and my Thermomix. - Yeah, the must-haves. - The must-haves, yeah. have that, we gotta have that, so yes, it's all happening. - Well, thanks, girl. - [Rico] My God, it smells so good. - Rico told me that we have but so far I've been. (fingers snapping) - Well, you've got lots, so of the boat to see, so. (both smooching) We gonna pop into the group quarters. - [Rico] So wait a - So just down there is So it's very small sort of sink and stuff. But we don't really use that one because the guests always - Yeah. - Makes sense. - [Rico] And then this is a dumbwaiter? - It is, so that dumbwaiter Yeah, so it goes down which is really good are down there, so I don't I just put in the dumbwaiter, so. - [Rico] Shove that all in there. - That's and really cool. I send it down the dumbwaiter. Yeah. So you never have to - I don't have to, like, - Nice, so it goes down, - There is another but we don't use that. I'd rather the girls carry the plates. - Got it. - By the time you put them on your, and then like it's the same. - 'Cause you can only - Exactly. - But this works for the people. - And can you imagine if - Yeah. &quot;Sorry, your main courses - You can pick it up in the galley. - Oops! All right, we'll let you cook. I mean, sorry, is it cooked? Is it? We'll let you cook. - I don't know if there's another word. - That is correct. we'll let your chef. - We'll let your chef. We'll We're gonna go and pop into There's a lot going on there, but we got our permission. you should go and look at it. - Yeah. Behind the scenes, show the real stuff. - Nice, okay, so as Nina because they're prepping They're doing some service, some work. I mean, this is real behind You don't get to see this. And as a guest, you never get to see this. So Captain Paul was really cool to us 'cause he was like, &quot;Hey, So if you're cool with it, go down there. Normally, nobody gets to see this.&quot; - [Rico] Well, that's There's a lot of maintenance going on, and it has to be done at some point. - So as you can tell, they've got, look, this protection covers everywhere 'cause they're doing some work and maybe something can drip and stuff. So everything is really nicely protected. So keep going down. - [Rico] Wow, this is huge here. - Exactly, so we have two quarters there, which we're gonna obviously So just respect their privacy. But let's go down one more. - Further down? (gentle music) So welcome to our crew area. Like we said, there's a Let's go straight into the crew mess. All right, Sonja. - What is your position? - I am third stew slash Yeah. So show us around. I know you guys have a lot going on here. - We do. we warned them, there's a lot happening. - We do, yeah, in the - Still looks really good though. - We tried, it's like this is our home at the end of the day. Like, this is where So we wanna make sure - It's really big. - Yeah, agreed. So you So how do you use that space? - That's, like, our movie space. That's, like, you've had a hard day. - [Rico] Let me go that side. - You've just had, like, your nice dinner made for you by your private chef on board and, like, all life is- Okay? You've got the dishes done for you. And then everyone just goes in there, they get their, like, comfy clothes on. And everyone just snuggles - Nice. play video games. - Okay. You dim the lights. to have, like, two spaces, like, people hang out here. - And then it's kind of a secondary space. - We have people, like, doing work in here sometimes on their laptops, or, like, some people that just So it's nice to have the separation for sure. Especially, how big is the crew? - I think there's 19 of us total. - Yeah, that's a lot. - There's a lot people. You have to be able to split up. - Exactly, yeah, it's either That's it. So with the cabins, right, on this deck, what do we have? - So we just have these two here. - Yep. those are, like, our little cave ones. They're quite spacious. I think the two forward ones near the bow are the smallest cabins just 'cause it tapers. - So we have two down here. You just have to have people Like, you gotta have hearing a movie. there's a lot going on here, for sure. - Yeah, so, like, it's not the quietest, but it's honestly, it's pretty great. So you have two down here. And then I believe you have And then you have, up one and the chief officer's cabin. - Yes, those, we got to see. - Yeah. - So and that, that's your laundry here? - This is our laundry, yeah. It's also a bit of a - It's all right, you're doing laundry. - But laundry always is. - How are you? - This is Jade. just keep an open mind, a - There's a lot. It never stops in here. - How many washers and dryers do you have? - So we have four washing and then we have our and industrial dryer. Those are for, like, all the use for the guests. - It's very handy. This - I mean, this is what you like, even if one breaks, And you're still able to, yeah, this just happens. - Yeah, it just happens. - But you still have three. - Yeah, I mean, on our boat, we have two sets just for that reason 'cause I'd wanna be able to do that, yeah in the middle of a trip? - It's the charter. It's, - Yeah. I mean, it's important. - Wow, really cool. Yeah, we have, like, all our Bunch of little hiding Does everything we needed to do. - Nice. Okay, what else? So that way, right? - Bye, nice to meet you. - So this way, we kind of just had, this is our dumbwaiter here. So this brings the food up - [Rico] We skipped over - [Victoria] The coffee machine! - [Rico] The coffee machine. - I know. - [Sonja] On its altar right there. - [Victoria] Yes. - A shrine to the coffee machine. Honestly, if that thing is not full, like, seven times a day, every time we come in here, we're like, &quot;Is there beans? Is it good?&quot; - It makes sense. - Good to go, the last thing like, have to empty that themselves. Oh, you'll never hear the end of it. We've got the drinks fridge here. We've got, like, a bunch of good stuff for the guys to grab if We always have, like, leftovers We usually only keep - Okay, you guys continue on with this. - I am so hungry. - Hungry! - So that's the dumbwaiter. That's also from the galley. - Okay. and galley. - This is, like, our little - Oh wow! at the moment, but- - It is, yeah, it's quite a... We've got lots of space. - Yeah. we've got our garbage locker. So it's like a refrigerated - [Victoria] Oh, you have it down here. - Yeah, so that's ours. And then we have our glass crusher here so that we don't take up No one cuts themselves. It's quite handy. That's a good one. - Wow, glass crusher. our little kind of dry store. - [Sonja] So we've got, - Okay, you guys, this isn't little, like, when she says And if you watch Nina's channel that you've seen her do videos and stuff with organizing. you know that she really, really - Yes, really important. Wow, this is big. - It's a big, yeah, it's a great space. I don't know what we'll - It's like a cabin. - And then we've got the walk-in here. - So that's what she was saying. You can just put stuff and it goes up to the- - Yeah, so you've got - Wow! - That opens up. - I know on your feet. And then you've got the - [Rico] Yeah, I'm not gonna go in there. - So we've got everything in there. Ice cream, all the good stuff. - Oh. - Wow. - We're very lucky. - [Rico] So can anybody just - No. - That's for interior only. And then you've got the ETO's office. He has a bunch of computers in there. And then you have the - Okay, very cool. a bit of stuff back here. don't know what an ETO is. - So he's our, like, our So he does kind of all of the everything that has to do with that. It's a big job. - Separate person doing it? I can't even hook up I don't know how he does it. He's got the best job. - All right, quick lightning round. - Yes. - What did you wanna What profession? - Ooh, I wanted to be a veterinarian. - Wow. But I'm allergic to all animals. - Oh my God! - That did not go very well with me. So this is good. like, got into yachting? - I think I was 23. - Okay. So it's been quite some time. - Yeah. - What's your favorite - Oh, that's a tough one. - Most favorite. like, meeting all the different people, like guests and crew. It's like you just get a And you get to travel the world with them. - Yeah. - Like, how good? - [Rico] Do you ever - I guess I'll find out. (all laughing) I guess I'll find out. - Okay, and do you have - No. - No, who do you think does? - I have to say, like, it's a mix between, like, the deck 'cause the chef never stops. - Never stops. I feel like they have it. - I feel like it's also is because you're in that You just get one out, it's the next, like, it just never break. - And, like, the requests you're like, &quot;Oh my goodness, okay. I guess I'll figure it out.&quot; Cool, well, thank you so much, we appreciate it. - And we're gonna go and check out a whole other beach club insane area Appreciate it, see you later. - Yeah, thank you. (gentle music) Gonna have some good leg workouts here. - [Rico] Yeah, right. - Wow, oh, we forgot to do Real quick, real quick. - Chef. - Okay, real quick. - What'd you wanna be - I wanted to be a spy. - A spy? - Yeah. - I read &quot;Harriet the - Oh, okay, favorite thing about this job? - I get to cook every day. - That's your favorite - I'm a creative person and I love food. - Wow. &quot;Oh, I get to cook.&quot; - Do you think you have the (Nina chuckling) We ask everybody this question. - I think the engineers have - Yeah? - Okay. and metaphorical shit hits the fan, yeah, they gotta deal with it. - Okay. - [Rico] But if no shit hits the fan, you're actually working all the time because you're cooking, - Yeah, that's true, yeah, yeah. - But apparently, it's what - But you enjoyed it. I would much rather have &quot;Oh my God, I need internet now!&quot; Or like the pool's broken. Or that'll be awful to not know what was wrong with something, so yeah. - And then it's broken. - [Rico] So being on Motor Yacht Loon, and it being on social and YouTube, and so on, of being on camera? - Nah, not me. (Victoria laughing) - See you later. - Bye. (gentle music) - [Rico] We're gonna continue - So we're back in our upper salon area. Wow. Honestly, I love the furniture. - The interior does have that lush but minimalistic vibe, right? Like, it's very comfy, but minimal. So you don't feel - Correct. of people on board, have lots of space. - [Rico] And some of the like mid-century, modern. Really, I really like It's beautiful. - Really well done. right, I feel like this in the heavy seas because But obviously, it's living here, and it's surviving, so it's great. Big couch here, can easily A bit of storage here. And now we go into our aft deck. So we have our alfresco dining right here, which if you guys have a lot happens here. This is where I feel That's where they do most And they do really pretty and table decor. It's a whole art out there, and I guess need to get But it's kind of a thing - [Rico] And then when you just move a little bit further out. - You just roll over. - [Rico] You just roll over when you're stuffed. like, 20 people couch? 20 people. - Wow! - [Rico] Which is such a cool spot. Like, you know, say you have you're gonna enjoy a And then everybody who's because you were the you can watch 'em or behind in the beach club doing any kind of water activities behind. Pretty cool spot. envy right now? - [Rico] Wow. That's yeah, that's a pole. - And it's nicely shaded here. - [Rico] I have not. - There's a pop-up TV right here. So depending on where you're sitting, you can also watch some TV if you're not participating in the beach club area. - [Rico] So going to the main deck, how do you wanna do this? You wanna go take the exterior staircase or you wanna go back inside? - I think we take the exterior staircase and then we go in and show - Fantastic. - [Rico] So you take the port side, I take the starboard side. - [Victoria] But why? - [Rico] Why not? - Okay, let's split up. Bye. One, two, three. - First! I didn't really try, I didn't really try. - I think you let me win. to the main deck aft. - So where do you wanna start? I mean, kind of like the - [Rico] Well, is that a real question or was it a trick question? it was not really a question, wow! - [Rico] Okay, my question - What do you think? - [Rico] Put your foot in. (chuckles) - It's warm, it's like warmish. - [Rico] Perfect temperature to jump in. - Yeah, it's like a perfect temperature for hot weather. I mean, look, this pool is massive. - And you've got layouts on the I mean, the real fun in the beach club, - [Rico] For me right now, I'm &quot;Okay, where's the DJ setup? Where the speakers are gonna go?&quot; I mean, pool party on Loon, right? - Where would you do it though? - [Rico] I would probably wanna be, like, right in the middle here somehow. - You don't think you'll - [Rico] Both. - Okay, we're gonna go and check out the beach and you guys are gonna if you would throw a party with Rico DJing on this superyacht, where would you do it? Put in the Comments. - [Rico] Gotta wait so you actually know what's all here. - That's what I'm saying. Once we're in the beach I'm rooting for the beach club. - [Rico] Little sneak peek. Gonna check that out in a moment. - All right, let's do it. (twangy adventurous music) Takes a long time to walk from that side. - [Rico] I know. She's beamy. We gonna have a hard time running around. - [Rico] So this is Loon's That's a big tender. - Wow. for a tender. for quite a few people. This is a very nice primary boat. So to have this as a tender, and you know, you're on a big superyacht. - [Rico] So now here on the main deck, the side decks are really, really wide. There's a way to get to the galley. And then you have - Yeah. one deck up to where we Yes. so there's some people on some charter brokers and stuff, so we're gonna shoot around it, but you guys are used the boat shows, so let's (gentle music) Come on in, so this is our... - [Rico] Main deck formal dining. - Exactly, which we were We said, &quot;Do you guys use this often?&quot; They said, &quot;No, primarily guests are preferring to dine outside.&quot; - [Rico] Yeah, I could see that. - So you have it. In case you ended up in this bad week of just crappy weather, you have a really nice dining area. But I could definitely see that if I was chartering this, - [Rico] So another it's a little bit but this is a TV, which is also an art display at the same time. It looks so, so cool. And you can change it all the time. - So right here, that this Oh, I expected something - Oh, it's a salon. and I go that way. - Ta-da, welcome to the main salon. I mean, that salon was pretty awesome. And you still have this You think about, you know, it'll feel like nothing. I mean, it's really, there's You'll be looking for each other. - [Rico] And then you have for movie nights if you wanna do some. And one thing which a camera and a video sadly cannot translate and bring you over that information. It smells really, really nice in here. - It does smell very, very good. So anyway, it's all self-explanatory. I'm not gonna explain couches to you guys. There's storage right here, which is, I'm sure it entertainment stuff stored. So I'm not gonna open anything. Behind this door is our galley, which you guys already seen and had a really nice sneak peek in. Actually no, had a tour of. - [Rico] Yeah. - And now we're gonna What's here? Do you see all, like, little pocket door? I mean, yeah, there were that would pass by on both sides. - Day head? Another really beautiful So this would be used by the main salon space. - And this is something I find is you actually have, So when you come in, you come up this really nice And you come right in here. They bring the suitcases and stuff. And you have a real foyer. - [Rico] I like that a lot too. A lot of times on other that area is usually maybe half the size. - Yeah, this is very big and very spacious, yeah. This feels like- - You're like, &quot;Welcome, Okay, so let's keep going forward. So this staircase leads us to the owner's office slash salon, that kind of a private space. - [Rico] So the whole no, this is a bulkhead here. - Correct. - [Rico] But it can be closed up there. - Correct. - [Rico] Okay, got it. - But this is a door. How cool is that? - Oh wow. It's completely hidden. - [Rico] And they incorporated - Yeah. Restricted area. - [Rico] Off-limits for us. - Off-limits. Okay, so another And now, we walking into our- - [Rico] Plus the privacy door. - Yes, we're walking into So basically, yeah, this whole Wow, it's massive. Wow, we don't even have Go, go to yours. - [Rico] Oh, I see. - [Victoria] Yeah. - [Rico] This will be your side though, because you always like to - You're right, you're right, switch. - So this will be my side here. - Look how big this is. That's all I need in hanging space. - Yeah, this is mine, this is his. - Okay, keep going. So now we going to our port side, and this is our owner's suite. - [Rico] That's pretty sweet. - I don't think I've ever - [Rico] For the owner's quarters, this is definitely a little overkill. - Yeah, I mean, it's great size. Why would you want this Like, it's huge, look how much space. You can dance around here. So you'll have a really nice desk here, which clearly you don't need an office because you have a whole office there. This is just a nice makeup, jewelry spot. - A door there, what's that go? Emergency exit. - So this is just your, you know, how on the smaller boats, this is your escape door. - [Rico] Pretty big door. - Yes, all right. And of course, storage. Of course, we have hanging lockers. I mean, goes without saying. Now, we're going on our starboard side and walking into our owner's en suite. - Wow. Look at these windows. next to the top? People understand how - Look at the windows! I can't get over these windows. Wow, I don't think I would unless it was in the marina maybe. - [Rico] Right? - Wow, and there still or storage, or something there. Can I open one up? - Yeah, sure. anything this tour, you know hard it is? Okay, check this out. - I love that. - [Rico] Branded Loon everywhere. - Oh, that smells good. - [Rico] Smells so good everywhere here. - Oh, it smells so good. Small TV, hello. Okay, I'm not gonna mess with that 'cause somebody will definitely - [Rico] But there is of who you can call. - Yeah, who should we call? - [Rico] Each guest cabin, - That's so cool. - Interior service. here we have a head. So we have our toilet, And this is our shower, ready? Wow, look at this. Look at this right here. - Wow. - [Rico] So how do we rate this shower? - You guys, put it in the I mean, on one, two, three, One, two, three. Six-person shower. Okay, we agreed on it, six-person shower. - Yes, for sure. I mean, look, four, five, yes. Party in the shower. This is cool, it's very pretty. - Yeah, I've never seen like, in these positions for sure. Very cool. Very nice design. Okay, - [Rico] Going aft. - You guys, the best is yet (gentle music) So let's go down to our guest cabins. It's the way the guests would come in. - [Rico] Main staircase down. - Wow, look, there's actually, like, a little foyer here as well. - Yes. Beautiful. - What? Spa. - Wow, see this is what I told you. Everybody's got kinda like a double job on this yacht. forward? Yes, let's start all the way forward. We'll go port. - [Rico] So just since we're it says, &quot;Restricted Area.&quot; This goes straight into - Yeah, okay. go through there, but that's what the crew would do. Right, so coming down into port. So the way they did this cabin is this is your sort of daytime setup, and on the other side, You'll see it, yeah. - So welcome. - Really? - Wow. - I thought it's queen but okay. - Nice size TV. what you think. We have a little makeup Coming into the head. Toilet right here, sink. I mean, same decor, of course. Huge window here as well. So all of them you notice, right? Most of 'em don't have a but they're really spacious. So not really needed, really nice. - So now look at the starboard side, which, like you said, is - Yeah, yeah, turndown service with the lights. - Yeah, so this is how you some time in the evening, and it's identical, matching. You guys believe us, matching cabin. Exactly the same. of the stone's slightly different. The color is slightly different. Other than that, it's the same layout. - It's very nice. Okay, and then what's here? (Victoria knocking) Oh, storage, (chuckles) storage. Keep going. Two more cabins. Okay, we'll go in the So the only difference and the other one is, which I'm wondering if We're gonna look when we're Wow, all the cabins are like, a lot of space, - Same setup like the other cabins? - Yeah, very, very similar. - Again, just slightly - Rain showers everywhere. Nice. - Let's see if this cabin can or cannot. Yes, I was right. So it could be set up as a twin cabin for two separate beds right here or they're making one big bed. - This is so generous. It's really big. Love it! Wow. Equal footprint of the cabin, actually. So there's nobody who should because they're all the same. - How do we get on board as guests? - I know, right? - Okay, I want to try Nina's cooking. - [Rico] I think we should do an Atlantic crossing with Loon. - Oh, I don't know. I don't - [Rico] What do you guys think? Victoria, Rico joining Loon for an Atlantic crossing. - [Rico] Put it in Comments below. - I mean, it could be. - This is beautiful here. Look, all these shots of Loon One, or Loon Two, or Loon Three in different anchorages in the world. - Is this, like, our tech - [Rico] I assume yes. - Yeah, because all of this - [Rico] Correct. - So let's go check out the which is one of the big features of this charter superyacht. - [Rico] Oh, look at this. - Okay, let's do this. So we'll kinda start a So okay, I don't even We're just gonna explore. Restricted area, so I'm- - We're not gonna open that. - [Rico] Anyways, beautiful which is a live feature but and the right side, - Look at the size of this beach club. - [Rico] Pop-up TV. - Oh, nice! All right, - This is massive. a little bit turned around, - [Rico] Whoa. - [Victoria] Oh, it's - [Rico] You are not kidding. - Haven't seen it yet. Wow, it's big! - [Rico] That is amazing. - Pretty cool. - [Rico] Dumbbells there. You You got a multi-function - Multi-function machine? I don't think it's - [Rico] You got a Peloton here, - Okay, now we're gonna go Let's open up some doors, yeah? - [Rico] Sure. - Huge storage area. Like I said, guys are So all the toys, everything - [Rico] Got a day head there? - Hello? No, I'm just kidding. (both laughing) May I come in? Look at the size of this day, it's not really a day head actually. It's actually, you have like a- - [Rico] Proper bathroom. - A full-person shower here. So if you're using the gym and stuff, you can also shower off here. You can shower off if you're salty and you wanna come back up. So pretty nice to have that. - [Rico] So the best are these two Bluetooth speakers. - What do you mean period? No, the best feature is here! And a lot of our friends are - Oh. they've been storing stuff It's a big passage. I don't know how long it takes them. Let's ask the captain how long it takes to prep for a crossing like that. Just to put everything away, but they have a really nice sauna. I know for a lot of you, What are these things anyway? Wing foil, something? - [Rico] Foiling boards? Yeah. - That must be fun. we have a center bar, - Check this out! Oh, I mean, I think this is where most of the days are spent. People out there swimming. I know they have this. You guys haven't seen, but they have this massive - [Rico] A whole toy garden behind. - With, like, a pool, you and like, just Jet Ski All right, so on this side, - Oh. in here. - Yes, it's loud, so we're But they do have a proper - Wow. Oh, storage, yeah, storage right here. - [Rico] Life jackets, et cetera. - Exactly. - [Rico] Going further these huge mechanisms or actually these big holes here, that's where this massive platform, when it's, like, folded gets locked into place. - It is crazy cool beach club. - This is amazing, absolutely amazing. - [Victoria] You have right here. Easy tender access on Really, really cool. You got the SEABOBs? Of course, you gotta - [Victoria] Pretty epic. - It's pretty epic. in the Bahamas somewhere, how cool. All right, you know what else is left? - Yes, and now looking up to Somebody could hang out Look down here, you can - All right. - What do we have left? we do have left the engine - Okay, let's do it. I know that engineers are because they're doing all everything prepping for this journey. So we'll show you what we can, but if you guys are just go and check out their channel, and subscribe, and all that. (twangy adventurous music) All right, Captain Paul said that Alex is gonna show us around. Alex. Victoria. - Alex. - Nice to meet you. - What's your position? - Oh, I'm so sorry. - That's what most people say, yeah. You know, it's the best. - You knew the risks. - It's the best position. - Really? - That's true. Then anybody could do it. - That's it, if everybody could do it, it wouldn't be worth doing. - All right, show us what you can. I know you have a lot going I'm sorry we're doing this to you. - We do, we've got a bit but this is, it's our way down to the ECR. - Yeah, just show us what you can, and we'll go from there. (gentle music) Wow, the AC is great in this space. - Right, there's two places in here and in my cabin. - [Victoria] Nice. - It's kind of cooler in the ECR. - I wonder who's in charge of that. - Exactly, yeah. - All right. doesn't smell like a - No. going on or something? He's got AC. He's on coffee machine. - Oh, that's the most That one is, that is important, yeah. - No, life is good down here. - [Rico] So who's usually coming - Oh, everyone. - Yeah. These morning meetings in here do go on, yeah. - Oh, funny. All right, so We don't wanna take too much of your time. I know you're also busy. I mean, we'll talk about in here since this, we've got a - Yeah, wow! - So this is really nice ECR in here. And then we've got a As you see, we're stocking up So it's lots of parcels come through. So main engine's a little bit noisier. So we'll talk about those. We've got the MTU 4000 M71 series. - Okay. About 2 1/2 thousand - [Rico] They're V16s, right? - Yeah. - They're really good. They're I enjoy working with them, and they give me very - Sometimes. - Oh, this is my choice. - Oh. - Yeah, I know, it's a great This really is, like, a modern piece of technology. one on board. - So I've got this to my house so I can learn how to use all the software while I was off last time. Fully geeked-out on it. I mean, I would stop- - Have you used it for anything yet? - Constantly, yeah. - What? Like what have you made last? - So the last thing I I made some bush bearings and that. So designed with these, and then we- - I feel like you need - This is a first. I mean, - I've never seen that. a 3D printer on a boat. And you know, it's once, it does take a bit of getting and all the softwares, and design things, and what to do. in the middle of nowhere, and you really need something. - [Victoria] That knowledge, wow. Something to consider, - Okay, cool. can you show us? let's have a look in the engine room. - Yeah. - I mean, this is our switchboard room, but as you can see, it's full of- - Oh wow, and you can feel it, right? It's definitely a lot warmer here. You have all- the AC has to work to keep this whole- - So you got all your main - Yes! so don't spend too much time here. - Yeah, it's the lights. - [Victoria] Yeah, it's okay, Ooh, it is loud! Dang, it's loud! Sorry. - Round down. Yeah. (gentle music) Got a lot of work going on right now. We've got fuel tanks being This is our fuel system We have 13 tanks on board, which is 197,000 liters we hold on board. Yeah, it's a lot of fuel. We can get across the Atlantic and back across the - [Rico] So what's making - Right now, 'cause I'm I've got to generator supply fans on. That's why it's... - Wow. we do try to, you know, on the ops, they do try to fill the space as much as they can, which is great because they're squeezing everything in. This is roof-raising plants and the ones in the galley. Also, my AC in there. Always important. - [Rico] So these are the engine room fans making so much noise right now. - These are the engine room fans, yeah. Unluckily out here as well, we actually have chilled We have engine room AC, which is lovely. We have chiller water system here. That circulate around the whole boat. And so this is our Have fire pumps, bildge pumps spots here. - [Rico] Sea chest? - Sea chest here. And then in here, we have - [Rico] What's that? - [Alex] This is our stabilizers in here. One of them sort of pushing over. - [Rico] Of course, it's closing again. - It's tricky, well, to get into. - [Rico] Yeah. - Right in the center of the main engines is our and it's definitely our highest But it, you know, it's good. It's a lot of redundancy, works fantastic. - [Rico] So are these or is it all one big one? - So it's one big one. - [Rico] One big one, yeah. - This system here is cooling down that chilled water system, That goes around the system too. And air-handling units for for the crew area, for every guest area. - [Rico] Love it, wow. - Yeah, it's quite far out. Other than the bow first, - [Rico] Yep. (fans whirring continues) - This power pack for the stabilizers, which is, I mean, I love it's been a kit. It works great. With this stuff, you really And on here, we do have a And it works great. Turn them on, guests are - [Rico] Big main So is that the muffler - Yeah, this is the silencer and then behind me, big One on the water line and one below. And then fresh water system. So we make our fresh water This is capable of what? They're 30 liters, so something like 24,000 liters a - Wow. - It keeps our pumps up. Well, we're using fresh water We are using it for the washdown. So when we're out, these at least one at a time. We have a capacity of water nearly 40,000 liters of fresh water, so. And I like to keep it full. Keeps us a bit heavier as well. Keeps us steady on the water. - [Rico] Yeah, makes sense. - And then we keep it And then water treatment. We're using silver ion to We're keeping that on flow meters, so that's keeping it (gentle music) I'm probably saving credit there because generator rooms in bits. - Now, let's go. - [Rico] Oh wow, that goes far in there. - So our treatment plant's in there. Hydraulic system below the stern door. The two side boarding And our Shore converters, because of the higher load, they're off. And further back, steering gear It's a serious boat! - And then the people - [Rico] Oh, definitely feels nice when you come back in here. (sighs) - It's warm in there? - [Rico] Yeah, well, it's very different than on a small boat with the sound shields on or whatever. This is actually loud. - Yeah. - Yeah. This is a sound-shielded room. But it's yeah. Lightning round? - Oh, we wanna... - What did you wanna - I wanted to be a seafarer. - Really? - I always wanted to work as sea. I grew up in an island, fond of the sea. - Well, it's place called - Okay, okay. to the State you guys have over here. - Yeah, yeah. And like, my family was seafarers, my parents were Royal Navy, so I have to work at sea. - What age did you get into yachting? - At yachting? I was 23, I think. - Okay. since I was 17 working. - Wow. Okay, favorite thing about this job? - About this job? The places and the people. Actually yeah, the people. - Okay. it's a nice environment. Even if the boat was complete in a wreck, which it's not, it's not. They always say it's always and a bad boat than a - Okay, great. - Your question. - [Rico] Ever get tired Since it's a social media boat. - It's different, as an engineer, we tend to, like, try and hide away. So we did, we tend, you - So the answer is no Not nearly as much, he hides here. - We try to stay out. Imagine if I said something wrong and that goes onto YouTube, - Imagine that. - It never happens to us. You just call the garbage disposal a trash compactor. - So yeah, just, you know. - Yeah, got destroyed for that. Okay, last one, do you have - [Rico] No, who has the - Hey, it's my question! Do you have the hardest job on board? - For some things, yes. - Who do you think has the hardest job? - It depends on the day. I'd say when things go It's a lot of pressure. You're on the line. the hardest job, the you have to be on form every day, I would say is actually TheCrewChef. - The chef. Oh, TheCrewChef. - Crew chef. they're the ones you have to make, you know, food for 19 people three meals a day. - And then if you have you people are gonna say something. If I have a bad day, I'm gonna - [Rico] That's a good point. - But otherwise, when then bang my head right here, and that's it. Yeah, well, thank you so much. - Very well. around, and we're gonna and finish up the tour. - Yeah, enjoy the nice - Appreciate it. - [Rico] Thanks for showing me around. I know it was kinda loud there, so I don't know how the but we'll see. Well, that was fun. We're finished! - I don't know how long it took, but I feel like it's - You've been a while. - Yeah, I think it was an or maybe two hours of footage. - Yeah, you guys got lost? You went down the engine room? - No, we just toured and toured, and I only feel like we So if you guys wanna meet please check out their channel because I feel like we when it comes to the crew. 30 of us, so I mean- - You guys have literally in this niche, like, funniest Instagram. Shit they do on Instagram, nobody does. So if you're not subscribed It's literally like one of the channels I always look forward to. We love doing it. - Especially like the themes, like, we did a fun St. Patrick's Day. - Exactly. We love doing all of them. - Yeah. join Lee, like, watch the because Victoria's always like, &quot;Oh man, I would love to stay in one of the state rooms at some point.&quot; I was like, &quot;Well, maybe of an Atlantic crossing at some point.&quot; - Oh, next week, let's go. Yeah, pack your bags! - I imagine we need to prepare, like- - Yeah, fourth. - Yes. take you to prep for such crossings? Prep the boat. By the time we tie got divers to clean the bottom, - How many Atlantic - Around 30, I sort of lost count, yeah. So it's somewhere around there. - [Rico] We have not done one. - Not yet. Not yet. This would be a better boat, I feel like, than ours, size-wise. I would feel a little bit more inclined. - Yeah. - Of course. And it's been long in the making. I hope all of you that in the Comments that we Put in the Comments. - Yes. all the good stuff, subscribe to them, check out all their social media. And I hope we see you guys soon. And hopefully, we get - Let's do it, rafter? - Yes. - But now a little slow. - Yes. - Yes. - Yes? Honest? - Okay. - Yes, see you guys - Thanks, Paul. (scene beeping) (clapboard clacking) - [Victoria] Okay, do it. Okay, wow, four, okay. Get low, get low. - Get low?