This Is the Peace of Christ, The Love of God Guided Meditation with Mooji on Christmas Day Namaste everyone. wherever you may be on this planet. Thank you so much for joining us this morning as we come together to share in honour of and in reverence to of whom it is taken that remembrance of the birth So, thank you for joining us. And this morning's meditation will be Most of you, if not all, so there is nothing much Just be comfortable. As you hear whatever words may come from me, they will be totally spontaneous. We do not plan these meditations, so they come from my heart, from the spirit of Truth. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Please be comfortable. Be of the attitude that you are about to, be intimately united with the spirit of Christ, here, now. Our meditations are not feel-good moments, they are not to give you an experience but to reintroduce, to remind, to point out, to direct your attention that vast and limitless being which we refer to as the Self. And it not being an entity or a shape, it is the root of all sentient existence. It is the same whether you are on this planet, whether you are from another species, it is the same solid, unchanging So today, in honour of the Lord Jesus Christ, merry Christmas to you, all of you, and for the deeper meaning that Christ was sent to this Earth over 2,000 years ago to re-establish and to strengthen the connection of human beings with the Supreme Lord of the universe, whom He called Father. And for us also, Only through our imagination and conditioning and that was meant to be so for a while. But for those of you who are gathered today, I take it, my attitude is that you are called, that this is the season of your awakening, and that you may again dip your full being, to be immersed in the spirit of Truth, which is the truth of our Self, indivisible, uncreated, unborn, imperishable, pure, blissful and perfect. Thank you. So I will ... I'm just about to ring the bell. What you will hear today for the duration of my time with you in this way, I'm not asking you to plunge into thinking, but more into the silence of your being. My guidance will invite you to your own Heart, same as the Heart of the Lord Jesus Christ and all the saints, and prophets, It's the same one place beyond the shapes and names, and forms that are governed by time, into the place beyond time, which is our natural state. In knowing this, our life in its expression will bear tremendous fruit. We will not find life our enemy, we will not shun existence, but rather bring it into the harmony Thank you, thank you, thank you. Om. Om At the end of this guidance which means we've come to the end no more than that. of where you are being invited again, or your attention and mind are invited to be immersed more and more until you will see that Let it be so. Let it be so. Hallelujah. Amen. Alhamdulillah. Om [sound of the bell] As you sit here, right where you are, already the mind and attention come under the power of grace, so that the attention into the heart of being. So, no strain and no force. Grace is with you. Grace is acting upon your attention, to harmonise and align them in the place of the Heart. You are here. When our attention is not grasping, or following the senses, or the mind, you are naturally in your true state It is like that. Now, if some movement arises in the mind, do not be alarmed by that, simply let it flow by itself, Whatever may appear on the screen it is happening by itself, These are nothing to be attending to. Rest in your own awareness, This is your time, your time with God. When we are aware of the movements or the natural energies that are flowing, the expression of the vital force, you need not be disturbed by that. You are behind as the natural and silent, of all that may appear in the mind, This is nothing new. What is new or fresh is to be conscious of this. That which you are cannot be pulled about by the movements of the mind and the body. There is a stillness here, a natural stillness. There is not something trying to be still. It is already here. Be aware of this. We are not going to construct, or to create any state at all. This time is only for discovering and seeing the naturalness So, very good. As you are here, be reminded, We are not being asked to wait for some event, or some happening. So any happening, any movement should be of no concern to you. You are neither doing nor undoing. Simply, you are. This silence which is being revealed, and now is such a perfect moment, because you are willing to rest and to be in that which is and is alone the natural and unchanging our very being. Again, we are not going anywhere. I am not taking you on a journey. Simply, you are here. Please don't try to imagine anything. Whatever you imagine will be some shape, none of these are permanent. They come and go, just like clouds float along Not waiting. Sometimes, because it is used to expressing some activity and having your attention. You are not in resistance with mind. You are simply resting in your Self. And this is nothing new. What you discover again is that which alone is true and unchanging, and yet it is not stagnant. Ever-present. Ever-aware. It is not a duality. It is not even a function, but all the functions of the body-mind appear, are expressed and are perceived in it. You are neither for nor against anything. Pay attention only It is already here. It is not hiding. Though it may appear to be hidden, by the play of distractedness that comes as we go with thoughts and feelings, But now, you are simply here. Look what it is to be so present, but not expecting anything, not visualising anything. This is the maturity of being. Not developing something, not trying to fulfil some expectation, you are in the very core of your own Self. And this peace that you are discovering, and that you are, or you can say, is the very perfume, the sweet perfume of That which Is. This peace does not come or go. This silence is ever-present. Only when we are distracted do we feel, somehow, separated from this. But in reality you are never separate, we are simply experiencing our imagination. This peace, all seekers of truth long for and seek this peace, this silence, this purity of presence, this place of complete rest, your natural state. Whatever appears to enter into this state, or come out of it, are merely movements from the mind, the imagined self. Now you can see, there is no difference, such as your self and peace, they are one. Just like the the fragrance of the flower Yet, you are more than the fragrance. You are the very essence, the flower itself. I am using a term that implies You are no object. The Self is not an object. It is beyond object, beyond even subject. All that you can perceive through the mind is the traffic of existence, comings and goings of the mind and body watched in the ineffable, the unchanging. Be aware of this. Pay real attention to this, so that there is no delusion or losing contact with this. Such words could only be spoken But you are on the other side, in which even the imaginary identity, seeking to be one with the Self, is seen as a momentary appearance in the unchanging immensity of the Self. Jesus knew, knows and is this peace. All awakened beings are one with this peace, and the light that emanates from this peace. I don't want to use any word, a word by itself cannot convey That which Is. Words can only point to it. Now, my words can be direct with you. There is no place you must go Grasping this in its fullness, you are able to move in life without pretentiousness, without awkwardness, flowing like water. Why? Because you are not the doer of actions. Even the sense of being the thinker of thoughts will become distant, so to speak. Thoughts will not have that they do when we imagine our self The very person that we take so much becomes so momentary, ephemeral, changeful in the absolute stillness of your Self. And be reminded that you are not being still. That silence has no doer, no achiever, it is already so. You are in this body, but you are not a prisoner inside this body. This is our vehicle. Don't worry for that. Rest as you are now. Now, pay attention, this is not your experience, someone's experience, you are the experience itself. This is a very unusual thing to be saying, because when we are in the state of personhood, we are naturally in a state of duality, so we feel we must be doing something, whatever you feel, you are doing it. But now, as we are here, you can see that even my words are arising as a movement in the immensity of your stillness and the aliveness of being. So sometimes, you may even feel some sense of distractedness, be aware of these. The awareness itself is not tired. The awareness is not drifting. The awareness and Self are one. How many have longed for and are presently seeking to find this peace? We imagine that the Self comes and goes, or the peace, the space and the joy come and go, but we only experience these states when we are distracted from This which simply Is. Knowing this blesses, automatically blesses, which will carry this silence, this depth, this peace inside it and behind it. You know this. The thought may come, Whenever I get into my activities, I lose this.' That is imagination. That is not true. You are sooner to lose the sense of yourself than to lose the truth of your Self. So meditation, prayer, contemplations are only to break the hold of distractedness from this, one's natural state. And your absorption in this is a continuing and continual process, not merely by human effort. Accept this. What joy it is to share in this way. Because what I ... The feedback energetically is that my guidance and words are flowing very smoothly inside your being. They point to that which you can now I say effortlessly, we feel we must make effort, but effort is made only when when we are, in some way, which is inclined, naturally, to feel separated from its source, But now you are here. There is nothing to hold on to. Simply pay attention. This, the Self, is effortless and natural. Of course, you are not being guided to be sitting in some comfortable chair but now, this moment, discover, confirm the unchanging-ness of your true nature. Wherever you go, wherever this body goes, the body is not carrying the being. In fact, it is the being that carries the body. These things that I share with you are becoming more and more natural Again, be reminded that to anticipate something in the future. No. Now, now, now. A now that is beyond time. Who would understand such a thing? Understanding itself is revealed in you. My very saying, now being acknowledged, Honour this confirmation. You will find yourself The more you sit like this, remember and recognise that non-dual Self, the more you do this, the more you will find the naturalness and the ease of being. And you will fall in love, a love that saves us from death. Death meaning what? Being unconscious of ourself is a kind of death. Now, there are two things that sometimes happen when we sit like this either the feeling to go to sleep or the recognition of the total awakeness of it, that there is here an aliveness beyond the conditions of sleeping and waking. It also permits sleeping, The Truth is not against activity, but the activities of life lived without conscious awareness amount to some aggressiveness, resistance, fear or struggle, but not now. You are here in the heart of the Heart itself. There is no particular posture that you must sit in, or move about in. Simply give some time of your day to sitting, looking, clarifying your being, and you'll see that this will flow throughout all your expressions It will not diminish. It will not weaken. On the contrary, but without force, without aggression, just through your acceptance, it washes away, it washes away this distractedness, Very good. Again, look. You are here, still, but not waiting. You are not here You will soon see that movement does not interfere, Nothing can obstruct the Self. But because we have been experiencing the condition we call spiritual sleep, meaning, unaware of our Self, or being aware of our self then these words may seem radical or strange, for someone hearing them for the first time. But also be aware Be aware of the meaning of my words, but also the space in which they arise and in which they, they point, they are resting in, they are arising out of this immensity of peace and this natural effortless ... Before and beyond beginnings or endings, even to say now the being is not wanting to look at that, it is so small a matter. The sense of a personal identity has grown only by not paying attention to our Self. You are here. This peace is the peace of Christ. It is the love of Christ, the love of God. It comes from the Christ of God It is our fundamental and essential being. It is not a gift. You may receive the grace of seeing as a gift, but your Self you cannot receive. Presently, our sense of identity into its very root, the very ground of being. When we have spent a lot of time in a state of distractedness, it will feel difficult to even hear my words, because there is some carnal resistance But I feel, in the vast majority, you are in your natural element, but the Self is not an element. There are no words for you. For now, watch the sense 'I am', and don't let it be attached Even through this door of 'I am', behind the very door of 'I am' I am not going to point to any location, Let's take a few moments Actually, my words come from this wordless place. This, that is here, it is not a doing. Some effort had to be made, in the beginning, to bring the attention to its own source, And abide in the Source Again, pay attention this formless stillness in you. Notice, there is neither waiting nor expecting, it is complete in itself. It has come to satisfy all longings, Like this, the distracted tendencies of the mind if they've not already. This is the peace that is written in the Bible, the peace that surpasses even understanding. For some people, for some time, they are not even able to move, the body becomes very, very heavy, almost, For others, as light as air. Do not identify with any shape, Remain as you are. Christ himself said, 'My peace I give to you'. Though the peace was already in the ones they had no access the noise of the mind and personhood. So this was the darshan of Jesus himself, because His power could convey, could light up the being in each of us who had faith in Him. This peace you have not imagined, you have not created. The uncreated Self, limitless, unchanging, uncreated, unborn, imperishable, blissful, content, everlasting, perfect. This is the authentic yearning in human beings. This is what it means to come home. And by being home in your realisation, great light flows into the world, and peace, and harmony. If you feel a burning within yourself, or any strong energies, accept now, this is also grace from God. Do not give it to the mind to interpret, Simply receive the gift of your own Self, the God-Self awakening in you, as you, in search of its own permanence This is the discovery. Thank you. Wherever you may go, whatever you do, remember this. Be one with this. Make it your own. This is to love and to honour God. This is the presence of the living Christ. This is the fulfilment of human life. And it will guide and educate you from within. It will make your being sweet, and honouring, and just, and faithful, and true. And this is called winning yourself back, to awaken from delusion, illusion. Stay with it. Om Before we close today, I ask one thing now. Whatever may be stirring inside your being, let go of it, surrender it all into the God-Self. Be entirely empty. Think no more. Be filled with the power of the Holy Spirit. We have not come together for a feel-good moment of Christmas, but to introduce and to reintroduce the love and the spirit of Christ Merry Christmas to you. I will sit for a few moments with you in quiet, in this field of Oneness. Remember, The mind jumping around Know yourself as This, the Imperishable One, and be happy. [music] Copyright (c) 2020 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express consent.