NATO's marines have landed. where the nights are long Their mission: to push back a simulated and prove their ability to keep our people safe by defending every inch of Allied soil. But as these marines the Arctic is unlike anywhere else and it will push them to their limits. Harstad, Norway. In the bitter cold of the winter morning, marines from the Finnish Navy's haul their gear onto the US Navy ship Gunston Hall. This will be their home during NATO's largest Steadfast Defender 24. The Gunston Hall is a big ship, but that doesn't make it easier Moving to their quarters It's way harder to navigate than I thought. It's pretty cramped. The first impression is, Anchors aweigh. For this exercise, the Gunston Hall of Norway's Arctic coast and help the Finnish marines To get there, they'll hitch a ride The Swedish Amphibious Corps to the exercise, each capable They dock in the Gunston Hall's well deck, that allows it to carry small boats. The Amphibious Corps was formed including the more than 30,000 islands Now, they're learning how to apply to the collective defence So, what distinguishes a Swedish Marine is since we operate so dispersed, for a long period of time But what makes a marine? Amphibious troops all over NATO take pride in being able to cope Well you have to be resilient, and you have to have a strong will. A will to push yourself to the extreme, They work in wet, often cold conditions. They have to travel light, and without the guarantee of resupply, they must think on their feet We must be innovative to solve and when problems occur. Marines are tough, sure. When the temperature drops it stops being cold For untrained troops, That's why the US Marine Corps to learn winter's harsh lessons. These marines from 1st Battalion, have hacked a home out of the dense forests They sleep and wake in extreme cold. To drink, they boil snow. At this early stage, But later, they'll need to learn but fight and win We have a large number of marines in their life, before. So as marines, we have a hallmark And in order to do that, And just grow in that proficiency For marines used to firm ground, the deep snow Walking through it would The only option Easier said than done, perhaps. The falling's all part of it. Just learning the right ways to fall, and then the best ways to get back up is very important. The hard part about is you have to ski with your main pack so teaching guys now the basics helps just the building block approach. They're picking it up very fast, Out here, the marines need a reliable source Getting it to them, though, can be a struggle. What we're seeing right here that comes in every couple of days. The biggest challenge that's required to sustain. and it's significantly more complex. The cold exhausts not just the body, Eventually, your willpower breaks down, and thoughts turn from accomplishing to saving yourself while you still can. The marines call this "going internal". To stop this from happening, they rely At least for us, we just kind of Kind of poke and prod with each other, Keep the spirits up and the motivation, &lt;i&gt;In the Marine Corps,&lt;/i&gt; Uh ... no, not really. I personally think this is While Norway sleeps, the Finnish marines on Swedish combat boats. Far from the theatrics of Hollywood, often rely on speed and stealth to succeed. That's where the Swedish marines come in. The Combat Boat 90, or CB-90, cuts through the Norwegian fjords With a steel-reinforced hull that can grind and enough gun mounts the CB-90 is an apex predator It's like driving a sports car. It's the best work I could imagine. It's built to be durable virtually anything. &lt;i&gt;So how was the ride?&lt;/i&gt; - What? It was good. Fair enough. The Finnish marines of the Nyland Brigade Unlike the rest of their country's their first language isn't Finnish, This means they can work hand-in-glove Our brigade is founded by a Swedish king. A Swedish company can come to Finland, report in to the battalion commander, and three hours from that, Together, the marines must trek through to scout out a helicopter landing zone. The forest is dense, and the ground is steep. It's slow-going, even for expert skiers The thing about Finns is, But ... yeah, I'm a bit scared to climb because it's quite different from Finland. With the landing zone secured, An Italian helicopter off an American warship Helicopters are coming. This snowmobile will make their lives much easier as they push further inland. Meanwhile, a Swedish fire control team on NATO integration. They meet up with the Italian marines who have landed nearby and are practising from an Italian warship. Fortunately, the Swedes are already familiar Say for instance in a future conflict, just one that is on station is making us a hundred times more dangerous It's always nice to hear different countries' and knowing that you do basically You don't need any pre-training, The US marines have come a long way, both figuratively and literally. After training in Setermoen, Norway's northernmost region, for a sort of final exam in winter warfare. Here, there are no instructors. The marines are on their own, Fortunately, hard lessons have paid off. The difference between us a month ago and now People know how to take care they understand their daily, they understand the basics of what they need which means the battalion rather than focusing Being able to move being able to fight is quite another. The deep snow slows the marines down and in this mostly featureless landscape, To prevail, the marines need to be fast Being able to operate truly makes us capable of operating which provides more options for our when they need the military to respond. As these young marines and sailors with the Norwegians, their own confidence in just how good In March 2024, while its marines Sweden made history by formally joining NATO It was an emotional moment for the Swedes, who in joining NATO ended Being part of NATO feels good. From now it's going to be and I hope the interoperability Sweden's joining NATO absolutely I can tell you they are highly competent, and they share our values that goes into our operations. The Nordic countries are now united At a time when European security NATO's Arctic marines must stand ready no matter the time or place.