(calm music) - Hey, everyone. Welcome to Malibu. Today, we're touring contemporary estate with board-formed concrete walls, vast spaces, and even more importantly, this home is situated with some of the most breathtaking views of the Pacific Ocean. And we can't wait to show you around. (bright music) All right, let's start We have these massive gates opening up to this long driveway that takes you all the way to the entry. House is nicely set back from the beautifully landscaped, and Now the first detail I wanna that we have on this driveway. These are essentially concrete pavers where grass can grow through them. That way, you get this nice lush look, but at the same time, it and makes it really easy to drive on. Now the same driveway to the other side where we You have a very spacious garage there, and I appreciate the fact that with the same exterior clad. That way, you get this minimalist look and this driveway is super spacious where you can park up to 20 cars. Now, speaking of cars, we have this beautiful G-Wagon here that fits Banyan Motors which is the as well as Wires Only, they were kind enough to for this shoot, and I on this driveway. - [Cody] I completely agree. I'm a big fan of that beige color. I'm curious, how much - Around $160 to $170,000. - Whew. They actually built these Love these 33-inch tires, and this is such a fun car to drive. This morning, I drove it and everybody was looking I love the fact that it's convertible. It's built like a tank. It drives so well, and I think it matches I mean, just a beautiful car. - [Cody] I agree. I could have a lot of fun with that car, throwing the surfboard of friends in the back, that like quintessential Malibu lifestyle. - Absolutely. And again, big thanks to Banyan Motors and Wires Only for lending us this car for this incredible shoot. Now, let's bring everybody to which is this beautiful frame. We have board formed with these fountains, and you can see the water into the reflection pools. And the same pools overflow where we have the floating step and all the way to the Pacific Ocean. This view is absolutely insane. - [Cody] It's so picturesque. Seeing the ocean through the - It's jaw-dropping. And to our right, we have bringing in the fire element. And then on the other side, we have the sliding glass and opening up the screening which is another beautiful Now coming back to the entry, you can see this 8 by 10 massive copper pivot door with all these gorgeous details opening up to the entry of this property. And come on in. This is your living room. The entire first floor opens and then you have the cozy I like how they brought color to the space with these pillows. Then we have this solid wood with all these accessories, leathered marble wall with And if you look closely, you'll realize that behind the built-ins, That way, you can take advantage of these amazing views and comfortable living room. And on top of that, you can just flow to the exterior very, very easily. Now I wanna go back to and talk about the specs of We have six bedrooms, eight bathrooms, approximately 8,500 square built on a 2.15 acre lot on And I wanna congratulate the and the architect, Douge Burdge for doing a phenomenal And of course, I wanna give big thanks to the listing agents, Branden and Chris Cortazzo for And as always, we'll have more in the description of this video as well. Make sure to check it out. And now, welcome to the dining area. Love this live edge solid wood table. You have seating for 10, and this space is very open. And on top of that, you get as well because we have the into these board formed concrete walls. And on top of that, right we have the temperature-controlled Now Cody, let's go this way for a second because I want everyone to get the scale of this section here. They took advantage of the corner and glass enclosed the wine cellar. And on top of that, the same actually runs on the back. And I love how they mounted these racks onto the concrete wall. And if you look closely, you'll realize that glass runs from the floor and they don't have any Meaning the glass is inserted as well as the ceiling. And they just have these little hardwares for the door as well. Nice minimalist touch and it wraps all the Now follow me this way. Welcome to the family room. It's another cozy seating area. We have the TV on the other cabinetry down below. Two floor-to-ceiling picture windows. That way, you get more And I also appreciate the and power connections for So you get this nice And of course this corner Now, welcome to the kitchen. Just like the rest of the property, it is very minimalist and modern. We have the bar seating on the and we have solid stone countertops here. And Cody, let's go this way for a second. We actually have two when it comes to the fronts We have the wood paneling on this side, and this section here is actually metal. I don't see metal cabinetry but you can see how thin the profile is and it closes very nicely and This is all Italian cabinetry, by the way. They have this minimalist aesthetic throughout the entire In fact, even the sink here is super flush to the countertop. Very minimalist. You have the titanium fixtures And then on the other of your base cabinets beautiful marble And continuing this way, we have a door that gives you easy Also, this is a nice easy walkway to your outdoor kitchen as And let's see, this I And then we have the fridge, There you go, on this side as well. More built-in appliances. Again, it's all Miele And Cody, I actually need you to come to this section one more time because from this angle, I love the fact that they all the way to the ceiling so you have the room Beautiful oak panel ceiling runs all the way to the other side. You have a lot of different organic tones and colors blending in with each other, but at the same time, you modern aesthetic. Looks good, right? - [Cody] It looks really good. I'm a big fan of the tones and we just got into the property. I know this is gonna - Absolutely. We got a lot of unique details that I'm gonna try to Now behind this pocket door, There's also washer and dryer there. And this is the hallway that also leads to your three-car garage. That way from your to the first floor of this home as well. And then you come over here that takes you up to the second floor. All the treads are bolted that way this section again, going with that minimalist theme. And we have massive picture windows on the second floor So even this section with natural light. And I like the lighter tones Even the staircase is so architectural. - [Cody] Even the planter - Correct, correct. It's actually not even a planter like it's built into the floors. So this was a thought out - [Cody] Wow. - Beautiful. Good catch on that one, Cody. All right, follow me this way. Oak paneling on the walls. And this door right here because it blends in with the paneling and it takes you to the first on this level. You have an easy access which means this room can be or it could be an office since it has an easy exterior access, queen-sized bed, beautiful mirror and wood paneled back wall. And then around the corner, with a walk-in closet, floating vanity and a walk-in shower as well. Good sized room. Now going back to this hallway around the corner, we and we're gonna talk This entire vanity is marble to the drawer fronts. And I just think they throughout the property and they try to use it Making these marble vanities is not easy, but they spend the resources and I think the execution looks beautiful. Same oak paneling is also on the wall. We have a black toilet here, for the first floor of this property. Now we're done with the right wing. I wanna take everybody to the left so we can check out Again, massive copper And actually, Cody, let's talk about this detail for a second. You get to enjoy this reflection pool straight from your living room. And on top of that, throughout the exterior board formed concrete walls wrapping into the interior. Now I've talked about how they but I wanna quickly repeat Essentially, you build these wooden forms and instead of using plywood or some sort of a smooth you actually use planks. And that way, when you pour the concrete in between each planks where you form this really unique texture. So you get the character, at the same time, of a concrete wall and A lot of architects, a lot of Personally, it's also one of my favorites, so I wanted to point that out. What do you think about that, Cody? - [Cody] I agree. Super creative and I agree. It looks great. It's not easy. Well worth the investment. It'll be there for years to come. - Definitely. Follow me this way. Welcome to the office. I want everyone to recognize the fact that we have great breeze So every once in a while when you can actually probably pick But to me, I love that. - [Cody] I do too. - I love the fact that nature and life just flows into your home. And this is your office. You got a beautiful desk, sliding glass doors, That way, you're only few steps away from taking a phone call And of course, let's not Beautiful marble wall right in the center with a TV, gas fireplace. And now let's go back to that hallway. Actually, Cody, can you turn I forgot to mention this. I saw the concrete wall, I got excited. We have a glass door here opening up to the side of the property. There's an outdoor shower there and if you take the steps, to the other side where You can only access the And I'll talk about it later as well. But yeah, this property Now follow me this way, we have the pocket doors And this is where we have the This is a really fun space. Same limestone floors are also here. We have a seating area on this side, but let's focus on the This is 131-inch TV wall. Looks super cool. You got a cozy seating section here. This is a fun space, - [Cody] Definitely. Great for any sporting event or big game. F1 especially. - It walks that fine line between a small screening And then on the other side, or towards the back of this room, you got this very, very elegant like the kitchen, island on this side. Your base cabinets are Uppers, mirror back wall, for your spirits. And then on top of that, to the entry of this property. Now I love architectural details like this and I appreciate the fact that how the architect took advantage of this beautiful walkway and made it part of this screening room. That way, you have this your reflection pool. This property is gorgeous. I love how it interacts with the outdoors and wait till you see the backyard. (upbeat music) This backyard is something else. This home is situated on 2.15 acres to be exact. And the property gets phenomenal views from the Pacific Ocean all the way to the Santa Monica mountain And I appreciate the fact that the home is only 8,500 square feet. That way, we have so much Property is also extremely And you can see the main home Again, beautiful sliding glass doors are all opened up. And then we have a and a detached outdoor And these two structures of the U-shape that this house represents. Now the focal point of this and you have this really nice and we're gonna cover But first, I wanna take everybody to the detached guest home. You can see the indoor outdoor flow. We have a small seating Again, cozy finishes, lot of warmth. We have the bedroom on this side. But first, I wanna show that we have here. We have the sink oven fridge on the corner. And then we have a pocket to the full bathroom where spacious walk-in shower. Love the fact that the and the toilet is tucked to this side. And now, Cody, let's go to the other side. This is where we have the bedroom, nice and open. Lot of natural light coming in. King-sized bed, cozy furnishings. We have the built-in and this guest home would also make a phenomenal office as well. Now let's open up the because I wanna check out this part of the home for a second. This is the gym that I've been mentioning. It is technically attached but you only have an exterior access. And once you're in the gym you realize that it also faces the And around the corner, we and this is where we have Now, I wanna take everybody this way so we can continue our tour Office opens up, This is your great room. again, sliding glass doors, And now let's talk about this 70-foot pool with this simple white plaster. Isn't this insane? - [Cody] This is so amazing and the plaster and the fact with the ocean through the the attention to detail from the architect and the design team. - Absolutely. I mean, this pool is the focal point of this backyard or this And I just love the vibrance and the energy that it And like you said, it is perfectly aligned with the Pacific Ocean and In fact, if you look at the street that this house is located on, all the properties are perfectly But this home is at a slight angle because they wanted to frame That's why they adjusted the a little bit and it was the perfect call. I mean look at this 70-foot where you can just wake walk out from your living and enjoy this pool. I love this. - [Cody] I love it too. - This backdrop is insane. All right, let's continue this way. We have another outdoor seating area here. I wanna apologize to our viewers. It is really windy today, But you might be picking Again, another outdoor seating area, fire pit right in the center. This section has deck floors. And going to the other side, we have the outdoor This detached structure has a cantilevering roof assembly as well. So you get a nice shaded area here. That's your family room opening up. And now, let's check We have a stone island space heaters, and lot of cabinetry. Sink, ice maker, dishwasher, And the same marble wall with a TV right in the center. And what a place for you Share it with your friends and family and enjoy this amazing And on top of that, you so you can still enjoy the ocean views. - [Cody] I thought it by the development team, especially having the you don't want the ocean right over everything you're cooking. So that window is a perfect call. - Well said. Now, this is one of my favorite Look at my backdrop. The hedging, all these palm beautiful architectural home. What an amazing property. And I just love the fact of land all to yourself and you get to enjoy these views every single day here in Point Dume. (bright music) It's hard to come to this place and not talk about Malibu. Its coastline, its water, And the lifestyle this area provides is what makes this place so unique. - Well, when you think you think of living on that's the first. The second is this point, the big Dume Point is one on the West Coast - Really? - And there's incredible surfing (upbeat music) - Well Point Dume specifically is like the ultimate neighborhood. Everyone flocks here, they're more organic, more natural. Malibu is not fancy. We're very understated here. And you could fit into any Like, people don't care how much you have. And that's the essence of Malibu. You cannot find a better place. You know, half the streets This one fortunately does. - [Enes] And let's talk Point Dume has this specific beach where only the homeowners and this home comes with that access. And to some, this key can be valued at upwards of $3 million. - For the owners in this neighborhood, you know, there's a little and you come and you see and then you see the most five (upbeat music) Not only that, you'll go out in this bay and you'll see Laird Hamilton or on his paddle. But everybody stays to themselves and it's super low key, super grounded and down to the earth. But you have everything here. It's a melting pot of business, artists and they have all lived (upbeat music) - Between the beach, this And the area itself is what drew our team to make the trip out here to showcase this beautiful property. How do you think this home and also in Malibu? - I think it sits perfectly. It's very unique in its setting because it's dropped a So you feel more secluded and you feel the privacy that it has and it's you walk through those doors and boom, you're looking This is west-facing, so - And that's pretty obvious. The way this property is such a cool and immersive experience to walk from your living room to these views every single day. Now when we go to a location, to talk to the local agents to understand and learn the unique aspects And what makes Branden and Chris special is not only are they respected agents of the area, but they also which only shows their commitment - As soon as I hit the PCH highway, 70% of my stress level just And it's always been my And now I have a home in Malibu - And I bought homes. I own eight or nine homes in Malibu now. So I believe in this I just think long-term is such a strategic and smart move. - And there you have it, No matter how you look at it, every city, every area and we take pride in taking appreciate, and showcase these qualities. But with that, that's We still have the second floor to see. (upbeat music) Let's go check out the second Love the picture window behind me and the landing is really spacious. They brought a lot of the wood elements to this floor as well. Really cool burnt orange, two chairs. And on this level we have few guest suites and the primary bedroom. Now the first room that we're gonna tour is the laundry room. We have some cabinetry, sink, conveniently located off of the And looking at this long hallway, we can see these three and this section is all open. That way, light can transfer to the second floor And this wall is all glass, but because of those wood Now to my left we have the door opening up to the primary bedroom, but and now, we're in the And I'm just gonna open up You have a spacious balcony and you get to enjoy straight from the second floor as well. And this outdoor seating area that's right there. Now, follow me this way. Lot of board-formed concrete walls and this is the first guest suite that we're gonna tour on this level. To my right, let's quickly show it. Built-in cabinetry and the hallway takes you Queen-sized bed, a lot of It's actually a good sized room. And we have another sliding to a shared balcony with the guest room that we're gonna tour next. And you get to see the Pacific Ocean from this bedroom as well. Now before we exit, of course, this room also comes Again, very spacious. Toilet, floating vanity, mirror wall. And then we have the walk-in shower here. I wanna say, I think all the showers are also book matched, You have GRAFF fixtures, rainhead, and the same exterior screens. You can actually see them on this side and you even get a little from your shower. Now, bedroom suite number Cody, let's show the walk-in closet here. Again, modern cabinetry. And then we go right in. We have oak hardwood And the board formed concrete to the interior here, TV. And in case you're wandering, it's actually an access panel. But instead of putting a they actually custom designed That way, it blends in with the And again, your queen-sized to the balcony that we just talked about. A lot of outdoor spaces. - [Cody] I really like - Throughout the entire property. Exactly. I mean you live in Malibu, You want to enjoy the outdoors, if you can from every single room. And that's what they And of course, we're not without touring the bathroom. Same hardwood floors, continue again, your floating vanity. Stone is all book matched. I That's your walk-in shower. And straight from your shower, Cody, we gotta show the views. - [Cody] This is what you get to enjoy. - It's pretty amazing. It's incredible. All right, now, the primary bedroom suite, that's where we're going next. What do you think of the - [Cody] The second floor I do think it's a great use of space and I like that it has like a common area in the center of it as well. - Common area in the center. And the primary bedroom And it starts right here. It has a spacious landing with Of course you have your and you go into the Massive picture window, two fireplaces. And then on the other side, we have this beautiful king-sized bed. Love the headboard design. Room has so much warmth and they brought the same to this room as well. And it really ties the interior and exterior elements together. It's like mimicking the screens but in a more cozy form. And I like that you have black so you have this beautiful color contrast. And we also have a ceiling mount TV here. That way, if you don't wanna watch TV and you want to just enjoy the views, you can simply do that. Now throughout the tour, I talked about these board-formed concrete I think concrete is such a but it gives so much character to homes. In fact, you can really see the textures of each one of the planks that they use and it is such a beautiful detail. - [Cody] I agree. The fact that the way that it was made, no two boards are ever gonna be the same. So it's a completely unique design throughout the entire house. - Absolutely. And even though you're building this strong structural your forms in a way to like this gas fire place to even bring more And Cody, actually, go Look at the views you get This is incredible. - [Cody] It's so beautiful. - All right, now let's where we have the open bathroom First, we're gonna check out the closet. Again, we have modern Some of the sections have glass fronts so you can position your Let's not forget the center island with all these compartments. We also have a skylight here to bring additional natural light. And this is definitely a good size closet for this primary bedroom. Now follow me this way to the bathroom. It is all open. We get the enjoy the views. First, let's talk about this vanity. All marble fabricated. Same oak paneling is also here. It's nicely recessed in. And actually, Cody, lower The same mirror runs all - [Cody] Ooh. - I wanted to point that out. That's why, and also the is fabricated, they to put the faucet here. That's why it is mounted to the wall. And let's talk about these The entire drawer front That would be too heavy. It's not because they don't That would make it really hard on the hardware that they use. That's why if you look at the back and if you can get a closeup, they recess in the wood and you can still align it It's a really nice design. Then in the center, we with this gravel finish. Does this remind you a - [Cody] Yeah, it does. With the planter that we saw - Bingo. This means that they and planned them ahead of time because you can see how the Then you have the gravel finish. And then on the other side, we have the second vanity, water closet. And let's not forget the Now some people don't like because glass can get dirty and all that. But when you're in Malibu and when you have a view like this, you wanna make sure you can That's exactly what they did. They also have these Your shower head, rain head And let's not forget the steam feature. And then lastly, we gotta take everybody outside one more time so we can enjoy this ocean I think it was a great that almost every single opens up to the outdoors. You have balconies, you have decks, and you get to benefit with this 70-foot pool. And let's not forget the Pacific Ocean. I'm just really appreciative to tour this incredible home (upbeat music) (upbeat music continues) All right, everyone, and I hope you'll enjoy this episode. It was a lot of fun spending and I'm really impressed and how it's so connected to the outdoors. Big congrats to the for doing a phenomenal job with the build. And I also wanna give Branden Williams, Rayni Williams, and Chris Cortazzo for More information about will be in the description of this video. And lastly, if you enjoyed our tour, give us a like, subscribe and we'll see you guys on the next one. (calm music)