Welcome to Sad Boyz, - and other things also. I'm Jarvis. And today... - (maniacal laughter) Yeah. No, it's not. - OK. - Yeah. Second Halloween. - (maniacal laughter) - Ho ho ho - - So close. You just missed it. Just missed it. - It's a conspiracy episooooode! - Whoooooooooa! 'Cause that's how he laughs, but he's so portly... Yeah, it resonates like that. Is that like a fair - by calling him portly? - He's gorgeous. Just wanna let that be known. - Sorry for anyone that's news for. Oh, and I did know. Yeah, you - you're crying. - Let's talk about something else. Yeah, you told us to cut I just remembered about... famine. - That's what I'm crying about. - Just the concept of famine? Oh, no! All the horsemen! Oh, no. You're just - Oh, fire! In the wrong place! - Fire, a modern marvel. - uh, you know... Fire at, like, a house, - but not in a stove. - A not-place for fire. Every other place, I guess, in the house. I guess that's why it is the fireplace. Where's the place you would - The ceiling. - Going down. but I guess that can happen - I don't know. - Yeah. &quot;I'm so bad at running a bath.&quot; - &quot;Oh, fuck! Fire's coming out!&quot; You call the water company and you're like, - &quot;Hey, so...&quot; &quot;I think we did something &quot;I'm new to this. Um...&quot; &quot;It appears that flames are Calling LADWP, just being like, &quot;Hey, this, um... - This could be me, my issue.&quot; - &quot;Egg on my face, you know?&quot; &quot;Is this...? What did we do?&quot; &quot;I'm ablaze, I guess. - I was trying to get clean.&quot; [JACOB] Have you ever thought about - That's a conspiracy! That's our first conspiracy of the day. A fire truck? There's no fire on that truck. - Who's starting all these fires? And of course, they're paid per fire, so clearly they're starting them - to put them out. to be happening all the time, - I'm in the pocket of Big Fire. It's like how police - They're people that arrest police. You go from the police station Well, they're looking for people with guns, - &quot;Joe has a gun! My coworker.&quot; - They're just shooting each other. &quot;Look out!&quot; That seems like something if you were, like, a computer &quot;Oh, fuck, I gave them guns, That's kinda like the real world. Yeah, imagine if you just Uh, no one would do that. That'd be like giving fire It is funny, like... Explaining healthcare or (Southern accent) - to people back in the UK - (Southern accent) Oh, sorry. - It'll be 10 years in a couple. Yeah. (Gloucestershire accent) All right there? Oh, you're from I'm from South America. - That's not in the US. &quot;Oh, oo are?&quot; That's like the old - Um, but yeah, you were explaining, uh, the wacky, fun, exciting way I think, if I mention it I think a lot of the time they think it's sensationalized from media, right? Like, they hear about shootings and stuff, so that lines up in the danger level, but I don't think they - gun ownership is. It's not just that they're easy to get - People buy them; tons and tons of people - Not illegally - they just have them. - And a lot of my friends - - No, I don't have a gun. - He's spinning - he's shooting at my feet, - making me dance! I don't have a gun, by the way. The same with the flipside of, like - Unless you're trying to rob me! In which case I will go and buy one. In which case I have every gun. - Yeah. Four limbs. You're like Bayonetta; you got guns But health insurance, I was and they're like, &quot;Yeah, I know. medication expense, and stuff?&quot; 'Cause there's a maximum amount you can It's, like, single-digit. And they were like, &quot;Yeah, so, like... - Like, $10, $20 for meds?&quot; - I'm like... &quot;Oh, no. No, no, no.&quot; They're like, &quot;Oh, like $100?!' Like, if you're very lucky. If you don't have insurance They're like, &quot;But what if you need it?&quot; - You'll die. is that we've got a lot of guns, but, for the victims of gun violence, Yeah, that's true. &quot;I have terrible news. - &quot;I'll put that on the credit card.&quot; Yeah, I guess I'll go into debt for that. - I guess we can... - That you have to... 'Cause an ambulance is just Well, it's like the new... - The protip now is to call a fucking Uber. Which is insane. - The system is completely broken. - Yeah, Uber Pool. Do they even do that anymore? - I don't know. - I haven't seen it. - It's back?! Oh, man, they said, &quot;The pool party's bigger than ever,&quot; dude. Yeah, Uber Comfort and Uber Discomfort, where you sit in a car Yeah, the people with I used to do Uber Pool exclusively, - when I first moved to San Francisco. That was... just like a pretty wild habit. Like, meeting a new person - if I was going back and forth from work. 'Cause that could happen - but the intimacy of a car ride... It's like if you're carpooling to school with a new family you've - Yeah, they have different kids. &quot;You don't look like Sally at all.&quot; - &quot;Sorry; we lost the other one.&quot; Uh, conspiracies, we said. Yeah, so... the - Today, we wanna talk about that we realized all fit - And made us laugh. To varying degrees. Um... I thought it would be play a little bit of the Ooooh! (singing the theme And then that way we can illustrate how easy it is to frame things as conspiracies. - Yeah. The music, like, That's how you frame things as Seinfeld. Yeah. Oh, I've been framed - I'm not dating a 16-year-old! You ever watch, beginning to end, Yes, I have. But not one of the ones from the '80s. I watched his, like... There's one he did in maybe 2016, 2017. I assume he has the It wasn't bad, if memory serves. It was, like, pretty standard. I mean, he's a great comic, [JARVIS] Yeah, it all felt like a Dave Matthews Band concert or something. - Exactly what you think it's gonna be. Like, Dave Matthews - do freestyle poetry or something. Um, I felt the same way, uh - You know, this was prior but Ellen used to be a stand-up comic. And Ellen did a stand-up special, like... How do we always talk about - ? I feel like, um, the bingo card Twitter Blue, um, and stand-up comedy. Stand-up that, like, becomes Um... Let's add Ellen to the list. - Every episode. Ellen's stand-up... I mean, this maybe was another thing was, like, 8, 10 years ago. I was like, &quot;This is pretty funny. Oh, yeah, this person was - All right.&quot; - &quot;Oh no.&quot; James Corden was on, like, a pretty good sitcom in the UK - before he ever moved here and did... But he's also, like... He's so comic relief that it's weird - It's like if C-3PO was in the UK - doing, like, a late-night show. - Like, &quot;What the fuck is this?&quot; - He only works in that context. Or he can't, like... Every single night, coming out. It's like, again, dude, can we just I don't wanna see you It'd be like if the Oscars was hosted Like, you can't have this guy - [JARVIS] Yeah. - Conspiracy, back to the topic. Our first conspiracy Our producer, - who's right behind the camera. It is funny; my experience of Jacob - 'cause the monitor's in the way. this mechanical being that is, like, the monitor He's like a... he's like some sort of - many-tendrilled beast. - Yeah. Should I take a photo? - I almost want people to imagine it. - I want fanart. I want predictive fanart. Yeah, don't type this into fucking DALL*E. - You've gotta do some... some real artistic renderings. Actually, you don't have to do anything, Yeah. But I would love to see So, 'cause things have changed over time, 'cause at the start, there was, um... Well, at the start, it was just you and me, - And honestly, it was a better time. - That's when we really got into it. Predicted a lot of the Epstein shit. Yeah. Dude, we were on one. - We just - - We weren't on the plane. Oh, god. When it started, it was audio-only podcast, recording into a MacBook badly. And me looking at Audition and going, &quot;Did it stop recording? - &quot;Did we? Um, OK, let me -&quot; - &quot;Uh, am I close enough?&quot; I remember in the very first &quot;Um, what if you, like, do the gain in post?&quot; And you were like, - I know a lot about audio.&quot; Oh, no, that won't come Yeah. You were - It was so funny. It's like, &quot;You know, just wanna This is my, uh, American Jordan accent, 'cause I still can't do - impersonating every other aspect. &quot;Um, just wanna get the gain &quot;So, what is that? Does it matter Who's to say? &quot;I just like to do this. - with a lab coat right now.&quot; I'm automatically attaching to it kind of just reaching, and &quot;Oh.&quot; - I latch onto the gain knob. [JARVIS] So, um... This is for the sound? - Ah, good. Ah, very well. OK. And that's... me. - That's not used in the podcast. So, um, then... when we first did video, it was like my... my little Canon T5i, or something that I bought to do YouTube with. I think. Or you also had a DSLR. But we used one camera, and we recorded a couple of episodes. When we traveled, it was Which eventually was like And then... And then when we brought back - And then obviously we did - Uh, we did the episodes on streams. - Don't remember a moment of it. I twizzled something, I feel like. OK, my goal... You know what the biggest, coolest As a creative career moment Would be if there was like - Yeah. had all sorts of fun facts about shit. - Data. like, &quot;This episode was recorded - when Jordan had the sniffles!&quot; &quot;It's a rare moment, where - You know? full name, SSN. &quot;This is an episode of Sad Boyz where Jarvis doesn't say - &quot;Ew!&quot; Just said &quot;um.&quot; because he edited all them out back then.&quot; - It's night. In between the cuts. Time of day changes. - But that would be so fun, because... it would be cool to have - But then - would be to be killed in a duel. - OK. I mean, that's really easy to do. - Oh, yeah. Lose? - Yeah. - [JORDAN] I can lose pretty easily. And then, when we... Kinda, you got back, uh, we had the &quot;missing Jordan&quot; years, You were lost in space and time. Yeah. Then we got the DLC; I came back. We got the DLC. Finally, dude. Um... &quot;New fighter approaches! Just kidding. - It's the Smash Ultimate intro, just you. - Dun-da-daaa! Here is Jordan! He is back in the game! - &quot;Jordan immigrates!&quot; It's like you and the (dramatic Smash landing sound effect) - Um, your ultimate in Smash is - Yeah, literally. I was gonna say you going to a desk - and writing a few e-mails. and saying, like, &quot;Yeah, I guess - that's my job description.&quot; - Yeah. Oh, acronyms. - You just know it all. - (both beeping) It locks in. So then we were like, &quot;OK, let's go to the camera store,&quot; And they were like, &quot;Are you sure?&quot; &quot;You're not good at your job.&quot; - I'm like, &quot;What?&quot; to get from Samy's Camera, but all right.&quot; &quot;Sam!&quot; And then, uh - And then we did a couple episodes. listing all this out, but here we are. Then we did a couple episodes. It's the preroll to Jacob's Right. This is true. This is the lore dump. Then we got the three cameras, but then I was just like, doing... I was manning them, which is a bad idea. 'Cause it is far too much to think about while doing a podcast. So I was just stressed out the whole time. We knew, though, when we got And then Jacob, uh, was delivered by, like, the stork? Yeah. There was a lightning strike, - and then he arrived. - Nude. Fully-grown, but was delivered by a bird. - Did not fit in the basket. [JACOB] Gross. He arrived in a Target bag. Um, slowly, Jacob has now been unfurling his tendrils, uh, We've been sort of where now it looks, like something that I... - am glad we're paying Jacob to set it up. - Anyway, conspiracies. This whole time, while the Jacob lore dump, I was looking at this slide that Jacob made called &quot;Miami alien conspiracy.&quot; So, Jacob, I'm gonna need you and kinda give us the lowdown. [JACOB] Yeah, so, - OK. [JACOB] A mall in Miami, - we'll call it a disturbance. We're playing the music right now. - (singing Seinfeld theme) [JACOB] The report is that [JACOB] I don't know. OK. Typical teens shit. - Typical extraterrestrial teen shit. [JACOB] Yeah, there a group of teens fighting. [JACOB] Some sort of scuffle, perhaps. - OK. [JACOB] And the surprising part - What? Why are there so many cops? - Oh my god, that's like 40 cop cars. - [JACOB] There are like 40 cop cars. they saw a Black teen in a hoodie. - Yeah, dude. [JACOB] Possibly even more It's leading up to a donut shop. Got 'em. - Dude, they love those. - What happened to him? Another cop car?! - &quot;Sorry I'm late, guys!&quot; &quot;Oh, boy, I dropped my gun!&quot; I forgot about, um, high-rise apartments, and I was like, - (stammering) &quot;It's a helicopter!&quot; Yeah, I didn't know there were This is like a five-star - Right. - That's more than there should be. inside of a mall. By the way, isn't it nice - Not from Miami. But also, Miami - - Mm, that's Los Angeles. But the... The... Miami's very far away from - So, like, Florida's big. And Miami's really far down south, and I'm actually from like north-central, Many-hour drive to Miami. Rats. - But - Not to mention I was in California. And I'm not a teen. Well, that's debatable. I don't even know any aliens! Zarbon? Yeah, Frieza's aliens. - Appule. - What'd you call me? [JACOB] Um, but yeah, that there's no way that this many - police would show up to - Sorry. I don't wanna - I don't even wanna credit whoever this is, 'cause I'm about to make fun of you. Uh... &quot;I'm not sure I believe in shadow aliens, but let's not just blindly dismiss this That implies the - [JARVIS] Yeah. &quot;#UFO&quot; - - &quot;I'm not insane.&quot; - &quot;What am I, a joke?&quot; - shiny aliens yet. Niantic has a specific release cycle! That's for our boys. That's our best friends on Pokemon GO. (mumbling) &quot;#ufotwitter #ufoX.&quot; - [JACOB] Yeah. - Covering both angles? Ohhhh! Sorry; I just forgot Thanks, Elon. &quot;Miami mall alien incident.&quot; What's alien? Is it just 'cause there's a lot of cops? &quot;Reports are emerging that led to dozens of cop cars outside Imagine a UFO lands in the US they send cops. - Well, that happens in the movies. - That does happen in movies. &quot;He's regrowing!&quot; &quot;Some witnesses are reporting 8- to 10-foot&quot; - which witnesses?! &quot;Are reporting 8- to 10-foot - Do you know - - What do you mean? &quot;Shadow beings.&quot; That's... (chuckling) That just sounds racist. &quot;Some witnesses are reporting were being shot at by people.&quot; Just someone. Just anyone. The Men in Black. &quot;The reason this story is interesting&quot; - that's pretty interesting - &quot;is the description of these 'aliens' seems consistent with what the Las Vegas - &quot;The Las Vegas family.&quot; - on all of the things. - part of &quot;ufoX.&quot; - Of course! Criss Angel. I mean, I'm just... &quot;I hope someone&quot; - &quot;I hope someone has a better video. I'm also curious what the police reports - Yeah. &quot;I've got this video I would love any information at all.&quot; And then the largest leap &quot;I think it's shadow beings.&quot; Personally, I don't know - Right, sorry. But it's at least aliens. What are we supposed to be seeing here? OK, so we have another clip from Matt French. OK, that explains it. - Relax, all right? [JACOB] So, this guy, I guess, You gotta - dude, by the way, my favorite internet job - is &quot;guy who zooms in to blurry videos.&quot; - Yeah, sleuths. &quot;I zoomed in on one of the TikTok videos about the Miami mall creature, so you can see the gray creature walking in between these They think that's a creature? - What? What? Where? [JARVIS] Do they think that is a creature? [JARVIS] That's clearly - With a lot of, like, uh... What's it called? On the lens. Uh... Oh, like bloom? - Yeah. [JACOB] Well, and then the community note. &quot;This 'creature' is in fact of three police officers Wait, can we click It's just the full movie E.T. Um - whoa. Oh, this is a whole new angle. God, that's a lot of police. Yeah. I mean, that is - that's the - - That's the shadow creature. That's the part that does not It was just teenagers with... Did they think it was a shooting? [JACOB] Possibly, if there were fireworks, The only possible explanation Now, in defense of the conspiracy theorist, this video does not give me - Oh, yeah. It's three guys walking next to each other. - I don't know if I believe in shadows. you know all kinds of stuff like lens flares and shit, or the way that light Especially a 480p camera Yeah. It's just, to imagine instead of just artifacting - is so crazy to me. - Why does it even look like that? Uh, shoutout for - &quot;Nokkia.&quot; - &quot;Snez is fun.&quot; Uh, so wait. Hold on. Look. Hey. I don't know if I believe - That's true. I believe in three shadow guys but not three guys. - Uh, it's either that - I mean, this is... I mean, presumably if we go on, like, - &quot;ufoX&quot; or whatever - - some of the replies to this. non-skeptics, right? - Like, there's no... OK, wait. Let's predict this. And this is like, mark off your - for the bingo. Um, I think it's going to be videos of other UFO abductions and shit, and weird videos that are just And then we will never see I wanna predict one of those little, um, that little stone alien they found - Yeah! He just looks tired, you know? (disgruntled gremlin noise) - [JACOB] You wanna see this one? &quot;And not one photo... from anyone... at a mall.&quot; So, what does that...? That's not him being a skeptic. That's him being like, - because of the aliens.&quot; - You can't photograph a shadow alien. if I'm doing a crime at the mall, - and post it publicly. - Yeah. &quot;They didn't take videos I'm gonna reserve judgment, because - It is fair that it is a lot of cop cars. I mean, it was fireworks. I mean, that was confirmed. Or &quot;confirmed.&quot; But I believe in regular. You know. It is fireworks. There were fireworks? - And then they were fighting? For example, &quot;Can we find or are there just reports of people &quot;I watched a video Basically, &quot;I heard it on the internet.&quot; - Yeah, &quot;My friend's dad's cousin...&quot; &quot;And I'm not gonna Look, I don't believe in shadow - - Yeah, no way. - &quot;I'm in the U&quot; - (laughing) &quot;I'm in the UFO community now. Can't ignore something like this. Who knows?&quot; - Wait. Oh, and that's an ad. Sorry. I thought one of their follow-up tweets - She's thrilled about it!&quot; - Ding, ding, ding! - Oh, fuck. &quot;I'm thinking he's not Oh, &quot;it'll be interesting.&quot; &quot;At least Sean will be there too.&quot; OK. &quot;At least Sean will be there too. I think Sean is his little guy, - Yeah. &quot;I expect someone would have had footage. Let's see if something&quot; - - There's no evidence of anything! WHAT?! &quot;This is all black ops'/psyops' doing.&quot; End of sentence. &quot;They are good at deceiving dreams, visions, etc. Look at how many people in the&quot; - &quot;mid ease&quot;? &quot;In the mid ease even MIA.&quot; - MIA? Oh, I thought it was like - Yeah, Jesus, AKA - I mean... Look, if someone's missing in action, - He's one of the most - - Tick-tock, buddy. &quot;This is interesting, because of a guy saying someone and describes a sort of hologram.&quot; Fucking - what do you mean?! You can just say that! You can say anything! Interesting, because there's actually - What the hell? - Gyarados flies in. And he goes, &quot;Did you know - &quot;Little bit of trivia for you.&quot; And he flaps his little wings. Oh my god, John Wick?! Yeah, John Wick does show up. - He goes, &quot;I'm a sigma male, actually.&quot; And then he does a backflip, and he goes, &quot;I'm all out of bullets.&quot; Isn't a device that describes isn't that a guy? Isn't that the point of the hologram? - It looks like a guy? - a video projector. Wait. Also, isn't that saying it's not...? Like, a hologram of what? - Uh, yeah, imagine it is a projector. It's like, &quot;Some guy put down a device, which projected a hologram - At home. Two miles away. &quot;Some guy was filming it &quot;This is interesting, - Oh, yeah, that is interesting. imagine how fun it is - danger aside, of which there is much - for misinformation and this sort of thing. But imagine how exciting when everything is a fucking conspiracy. - This is... Is it? We don't know. - I've never seen a shadow being. I believe in shadow aliens, OK? I believe in some kind of hologram. Of what?! 'Cause it's either nothing or the aliens, The goal is to be very &quot;I saw this guy doing some shit.&quot; &quot;It's interesting, because I saw a video.&quot; Twice, this person says that they - They're telling us about secondhand, without sourcing it. You know, my stepbrother's best friend that taught me to smoke weed uh, his brother's son's dad, - which is him again, he... watched all of Arrival. Which reminds me, 'cause I saw a video where they were talking to aliens. - It was a review of Arrival. 'cause there was some sort of projector. - Oh, I saw another video, actually, yeah. - It was at the theater, seeing Arrival. - Of course. and he was making a hologram And everyone in the movie was huge. - Eight to ten feet, plus. Every sound felt like - And then it was inside my computer. - IMAX, dude. I think that the Dolby family I saw a guy walk into a theater and pay for some kind of hologram. The Dolby Digitals are at it again. I love that, dude. &quot;I saw a video, and It's like if I asked ChatGPT to vaguely describe something - in 15 words or less. Like, &quot;Do you like aliens?&quot; They're like, - &quot;Yeah, actually.&quot; My favorite thing about this - and 38 likes and 3 replies. Oh, man. I mean, yeah. It's probably, like, lovely We've not seen any dissenting opinions. but anyone being mean or arguing, 'cause there's really not much to say, You can't get mad at someone like this. We're making fun of their opinion, and - - Well, there's no - like, you can't - Yeah, it's really just like the way that without any sort of... It's just like water cooler talk. Like, if this were about you wouldn't think anything about it. I think they're gonna trade It's like, &quot;Why would they do that? - He's at the end of his career.&quot; &quot;No, but I saw a video of a guy.&quot; Oh, no, - now we're getting into dangerous stuff. but I do think there is a The Venn diagram's fervent-on-Twitter &quot;ufoX&quot; people and antivaxx people, because they are - It's just more interesting. Like, that's the ultimate motivation There's people that are actually skeptical and people that have towards any kind of I don't know. Things where and they're getting a needle in their arm. I'm not pureblood, you know This is just... &quot;Wouldn't it be lit if there was an alien?&quot; &quot;Wouldn't it be so cool and I got to rebel by not taking it?&quot; They were actually Whoa. The aliens? It was Alan Dershowitz and shadow aliens. And then, parentheses, &quot;(3).&quot; Dude, I don't know if Yeah. I believe in Shadow Dersh. - That's just regular Dershowitz. Dude, the fucking flight logs where he's His fist, all caps. - Like, (indistinct mumbling) &quot;Dershie!&quot; yeah, where it's literally, uh, like, scribbled initials, and then &quot;President Bill Clinton.&quot; Yeah, it seems like a lie. Yeah, like, &quot;My friend, actually, - Morgan Freeman?&quot; - Um... Jacob... - is there a... reputable news source - Sorry. Other than... Other than #ufotwitter.&quot; - And X. that has reported on this event? Is there a more reputable [JACOB] Well, you see, all of - I don't like this cynicism. - Ohhhh! - tell the truth? Dude, that's so frustrating, That's like if you critique, uh, like the alt-right or, uh, basically just anyone, even centrists, and they go, &quot;Oh, so you like Biden?&quot; - Like, no, I just also don't like Biden. but has a very good point, - I don't wanna say I like the cops. - what the cops say, because then - there's a history there. Like, the cops lie, where they said, - Look at that title. &quot;Aliens at Miami mall? Police say 'lol.'&quot; Were they in the Twitter thread? I don't think they did, in person. - I hope not. They said, &quot;Uh, rip, buddy. &quot;Cops say 'yikes.'&quot; &quot;A group of roughly 50 teenagers - OK, that is very different. - That's, what, one cop car to - Hold on. That does explain Because if you're diffusing a riot, I think you just - don't you just just, &quot;Cops, get here now, I don't know what you do but in my mind, my little peanut brain, uh, I'm like, &quot;OK, that makes Why don't they have cop buses? - Yeah, I know. - four-door sedans? [JACOB] So this did confirm &quot;Which led to panic, as some assumed - what else would you assume? I don't think I would Was this - and also, take the more conservative option. - Don't stick around to find out. OK, so that makes sense. - [JACOB] Yeah. - OK, well... OK. That explains a lot of - It was at the fireworks factory. Yeah, they, uh... The fireworks depot next to &quot;Oh, what was I thinking?&quot; &quot;Police were dispatch What voice is this? Oh, no, that is a good, like, - TikTok alien conspiracy video. (West Coast, uptalky accent) due to juveniles refusing to leave.&quot; &quot;What you won't believe is...&quot; - Help me. I'm falling asleep. some businesses were temporarily closed &quot;Cops say 'lol'&quot;? &quot;The Miami mall alien.&quot; OK, that's a funny photo. We should - I mean, the preview Yeah, I - (both laughing) Why? Wait. - Ohh, that's awesome. did NBC News embed - - Why is that included?! from a crypto account with - how many - ? &quot;SharkAnth0ny&quot; on the thing? With fucking 10,000 followers and barely any engagement on this tweet? 840 likes. Why would you include - ? I hate what BuzzFeed, I feel, - has done to articles. Because I feel like every article &quot;Well, BuzzFeed likes to show &quot;So we should embed a few of those.&quot; It's like how a, uh - like, some sitcoms will have It's like that for, &quot;Well, we have - This snippet is hysterical. I love that for the reveal. That was good. &quot;Shark Anthony&quot; is a cool name. &quot;'There were no aliens,' 'No airports were closed. Nothing is being - OK, that is - that is not a good look. That is - That is actually... At no point during this entire time - more than when I go, &quot;Nothing is being withheld &quot;Oh my god, I'm actually - the idea is so cra... what?!&quot; - &quot;At shadow aliens.&quot; walking together, they went we attempted to catch them, and then they disappeared into shadow - &quot;What? Noooo. LOL.&quot; (both laughing) Why did they link to that?! - They linked to this?! &quot;Me to the aliens if I'd been at the&quot; - What are they doing, dude? - They're just linking to memes. They're also finding pretty niche ones, This is pretty cool. That's like when I got a DM today that someone said to me, &quot;You were on national TV in Poland.&quot; Uh, &quot;In a story about VR, - they used B-roll from your VR video.&quot; And I was like... Dude, me and the frickin' alien, dude. - We're in the big-time. - [JARVIS] Some kickback? - Some scrilla? Yeah. &quot;One per&quot; - (laughing) &quot;One person posted what of a generic alien holding shopping bags, and joked it was the Miami mall alien.&quot; Why is that in your article?! That's above a different tweet! - Was this fucking written by AI? Yeah, or an alien. &quot;One person posted what appeared Did your fucking grandkids show you Dude, they're describing They're just describing each meme now. - Was there a word count? of the golfer Tiger Woods as if to shake another person's hand, with the caption 'me to the aliens - if I'd been at the Miami mall.'&quot; This is insane. Oh, they're just quoting tweets. Well, is this like, um... Like Business Insider or whatever, where a lot of it is contributors Or is this a real journalist - Ohhh, no. - E-mail them. - I don't wanna put them on blast. Oh, don't get me wrong; - It's just crazy that NBC News doesn't have the due diligence to have, like, more professional articles. - It's weird that they'll publish this. I mean, it's working. - I'm sure that's getting more engagement. Who is the audience that you're describing - [JACOB] Like, your grandpa. - [JORDAN] Yeah. We don't have to assume it's an AI image. - I can tell you straight up. Straight up, it doesn't - &quot;Is that Miami?&quot; - the fucking Miami mall alien. That does concern me, though, 'Cause we are all doomed, in a way, - because, uh, video... You know, photos have kind of been - unreliable for a while online. You can't trust everything you see. It's like, don't trust - George Orwin's 1519 or whatever. Johnny Blowhard's 1999. Yeah, it was Francis Scott Key's The Poe... Poe's new poem, &quot;It's the '80s, Look Out.&quot; F. Scott Fitzgerald's, uh, - The Roarin' 1980s. Fahrenheit 1985. - We're aliens. - Ah, the very book. To read Tom Clancy's book on... - ah, birds. Yes. To 455deg. I don't know. Like, that's - Fahrenheit 451 just - setting the oven to 451. What is it again? Like, uh... It's something about burning... - [JACOB] Burning books. Yeah, and firefighters. And I do think - I think a lot of people assume that we're doomed, and to a degree But I do also think that we are starting to distrust everything we see, which is good, because very soon we literally will not be able to tell... Like, right now we have good AI eye, - you know, for the uncanny valley? I do fear that that's gonna go away. Development speed is where - the meme still is like, they'll have an That's a lot rarer now. We've actually kind of crossed that bridge. Yeah, exactly, or I've been seeing AI profiles And, like, uh... 'Cause I'll be on a dating app, And I matched with someone, Or, excuse me. I was like, &quot;Are you a bot?&quot; They were like, &quot;No, LOL.&quot; - &quot;Are you crazy?&quot; and then their account - &quot;What are you talking about, name?&quot; And, uh... Can you write me a string of Python code? And they're like, (stilted) &quot;I can do that.&quot; - &quot;Death. Food. Colon.&quot; Um... What concerns me about this article is... how do you - ? We need to have a journalistic integrity - To be able to say something. Because... I don't like - I know that Like, this is kind of a fluff piece? But it does concern me that it's like, &quot;what appears to be AI art.&quot; I'm like, we need to be able to say where we can determine that something is AI. Um... - Defaulting, like, to &quot;yes.&quot; Like, acting on the assumption - and then proving it wrong. And so I think that we need... Those tools need to be, like, Yeah. It's weird to feel like anytime we tickle AI I worry that people generally assume, &quot;Ah, philistine, get with It's not so much that. It's like... Right now, the branding of AI as kind of a goofy, silly thing is going to do a lot to discredit - actual issue with AI in the future, just because the technology Like, &quot;What, guns are dangerous? Those things we have to topload - Yeah, and I'm not - And I'm also not a... I'm not anti-AI, 'cause I, you know, I... AI's been around for a lot longer I had a minor in artificial And, like, not that but I'm just saying, like... But now just any A lot of the technology that exists - Yeah, &quot;AI&quot; has just become But I do think that it's gonna be on platforms, too. I do think that... If I were to make a prediction, I think that, um... it would be wise to have some sort of server-side community note-type thing that does analysis on media. It would be extremely and I don't know exactly I'm not exactly sure how this would happen. But I do expect to see, at some point in the next five years, uh, a tag on something that goes &quot;likely AI.&quot; Or you're obliged to have a watermark - or something in the corner. And, you know, it's kind of like - Like, we will do midrolls now and then. And we will be doing But it is, like, it facilitates paying and giving raises to the team, growing the show, doing other things, - I have no issue with it ethically. We're on a ad-based model, you know? Like, we have our Patreon, Yeah. But, like, ethics-wise, I think the only unethical move - is to not divulge that it's advertising. That was criticized, what, uh, four, five, six years ago was the... when that kicked in as, like, - procedure for YouTube? - Four or five years ago. been against the law for a while - to do undisclosed advertising, just in, like... in general. - But, um - Like, it benefits people - to avoid that topic. for, like, millions of dollars because of, um - by, uh - Or, not sued. They were fined - Yeah, right. that, like, breaking that sort of trust, 'cause you need to know And I had a brand recently, um... I don't care if I get But I had a brand recently that, like, a lot of times, brands ask for more than they're gonna get. But they wanted to do, like, more integrated using the product. Like, &quot;Have it in the background.&quot; - And I was like - Or it's, like, more than just the midroll. 'Cause when I cut to a midroll, it's like, - [JORDAN] Mmhmm. and advertised, sponsored segment, right? That is important. Like, it's a part of the job. It's gonna be part of the job - And this video is supported by X. - It is, up front. is if... My audience needs to know and if I'm, like, taking a bite of the influencer bar that the, like - If I'm taking a bite of the, - and I'm like, &quot;I love the Super Good Snack Bar,&quot; and I don't - and it's sponsored by Super Good Snack Bar, now I don't know... I feel like I'm blending ad with - &quot;Hey, Jarvis, how you doing?&quot; &quot;I'm a little... Honestly, I need a snack that'll pick me up and &quot;Oh, I just had an idea!&quot; &quot;On the Patreon-only episode this week, - time to snack party!&quot; So, that type of thing, - that's a hard line for me, where I said, literally, &quot;No, or else,&quot; like there's no deal. It's a non-starter, because I need the content - I need the audience to know - and this is a thing I was paid to say. And there's people with - I mean, when it comes to advertising. Like, but because they get used to it. It's kinda like when we were growing up we very explicitly know But at one point in time, the idea that online content, it was all like, &quot;Hey, I'm just a guy making videos!&quot; and that meant that you would assume that they're just doing it for fun, and, &quot;Oh, they're bringing up 'cause I guess they just like hanging out.&quot; I'll say we get an offer - Sports gambling. - I'll just say that - It's just like that's another - [JORDAN] Don't even wanna read them. There's certain things that are I don't personally like doing just 'cause I know that a good portion But if there was the right price, and it was financing some big project that's a thing where I could follow that, see where that goes. But with something like gambling, under no circumstances Literally, one life will be and there is nothing - That's like a no-starter. - We immediately said no. It's a thing that's a privilege, because over time, as we've we've had the ability And then some things feel like, um... feel like they, uh... are harmless, and then turn out to, like, not be good, or something. There's been a few where I've been, like, not sure if I wanted to work with them, and I'm like, &quot;I probably want to steer But, um, that's a privilege, because it is hard to... tell people where the line is - as a independent creator. If we couldn't pay the team, especially... you know, at some point, and it's like, &quot;The only way we'll get to pay them is by doing this,&quot; whatever, but the hard line in the sand And with that, that was... I don't know. It wasn't even - I don't begrudge anybody that would - or anything like that. - At what cost, right? You can't... And it's like, &quot;You can't Like, I can comfortably say, like, I truly don't think there's a number - do a Kick-type gambling deal. I just can't - it's just so... It would have to be the commitment was so small and I would not keep the money. - It would have to be - It would have to be like... It would have to solve - some sort of world problem. It would literally just have to It would literally just Or if, like, they were like, um, &quot;We're gonna shoot Jordan in the head PrizePicks ad.&quot; - You'd be like, &quot;Where in the head? How?&quot; &quot;What does the recovery look like? [JARVIS] No. I'd be like, but everybody would know They turn up, and I'm like, &quot;Why is this sports gambling website Uh, this is a separate side note. 'cause obviously I've been getting And just sports in general. And it's ridiculous how everything is - You have to put blinders on because to enjoy... Like, ESPN has ESPN BET now. - What, fully integrated? They have a separate cast where there's, like, who are, like, looking to see when people hit the over on certain point spreads I, like... I wanna play fantasy, - uh, next season. - Like, for - Yeah, but just for fun But doing - like, just walking into that slippery slope of gambling, especially when it's like... Sports gambling, it's like who've become victims of this and it's become so normalized. You want to engage with it more, You know, I've actually But I'm not ethically opposed to... like, playing blackjack or something, or playing poker or anything like that. But it's more that's like or, um... I'm pretty boring with the stuff I do. - Boring guy, not fun. - But there's lots of stuff that I may do in my life that I will not advertise, Also, you have to be aware of Because you're not... Obviously, you can't but there's a much bigger risk with certain behaviors. Um... And you're also making assumptions is the exact one that you would have, especially when it comes to substances. I don't know. Short of some I don't recommend drugs. Like, in general, I don't - You know, I've had a pretty decent exposure to most stuff, and I... Never done coke, and I never will. That, to me, is a... OK, maybe I'm one of the rare few - and then takes - - not worth checking. Even if I did, I don't think I would ever romanticize drinking culture, binge-drinking British culture, etc. I feel like a lot of my involvement with the culture and not the - And - 'cause then we'll approve of you.&quot; - I'm like, &quot;Oh, shit.&quot; With ad stuff, you're just not - in full creative control of what you say. And so, like, uh, I try to make sure that, you know, when I'm used as essentially the paid actor for an ad read, the stuff that I'm saying - Even like, um, you could get, like... Again, this is a personal choice, and not like a moral stance. It's not like a moral judgment I've listened to shows - [JARVIS] Oh, I mean, I watch the NBA. And it's just unavoidable. Every fucking... Dude, every RuneScape YouTuber that I watch is sponsored by RAID: Shadow Legends and I think I did... one? Or I was gonna do one with one of them? I did one with RAID, because I was like, &quot;Everyone - this is - who cares?&quot; Like, I'm like... I looked at stuff about RAID, &quot;You know, they do I play Pokemon GO. I spend And it's like, uh, and everyone, um, who plays the game is like, and everyone knows or it's not actually But, um... But with sports gambling... I watch so many small creators who are, like, trying to make a name and it's really hard for me to pass trying to get your - And you just can't... It's kinda like when I, uh... Maybe we've talked about this before. Like, my first job out of college, it's like, I'm not prioritizing the ethics - of the place that I work at as much as I am, uh, - making a living, and as much as, like, - building a resume. and a lot of people get very self-conscious them doing the very proactive, like, &quot;I'm going to college for X,&quot; &quot;I'm going to now It's like, &quot;I'm moving back home and People have shame about that, when ultimately, I don't know, what the hell else are you gonna do That's the point where - creator. - as a privilege thing. And also, it's, you know... We have a... We have management in a way where, like, I think I would be - If I was an independent creator some deals coming in, and But first of all, there's fees on basically And especially if you're an independent your tax is extremely high. There's a lot of things that and I would be worried if I had You know, there's a number of reasons why it's easy for me and us. I would not begrudge them doing I don't know their circumstances. And I... uh, I feel bad that anybody they might ethically disagree with. I think a lot of people don't have with sports gambling, because they haven't seen - [JARVIS] Mm. Gambling is one of the That and sex addiction are, like, - &quot;Ah, it's not real. Come on.&quot; a little bit, because it's always - &quot;Oh, just $5 here, $5 there.&quot; And it's like, that's great When people talk my brain always defaults to, like, &quot;Some suburban dads in the neighborhood, $100 each. We're gonna see who gets it.&quot; - And not, like - That seems like a good old time, but that's not what a - You know? That is a... - It is like that from the outset. Like, it presents like that. But the issue is it becomes so, um... It becomes so easy. Like, it's very easy for me - to buy PokeCoins with Apple Pay or whatever. Just tap-tap, and boom, load my account up. Daddy's gotta buy some new, uh, - gift boxes. Oh, I do it all the time, dude, It's like a lifestyle game, And, uh, it's contributing to me walking tens of kilometers more per week and I'm like, &quot;That's great.&quot; and the upper limit isn't bad. And I've, uh, done brand deals and, like, there is actually like a... And I sort of do stuff with the Pokemon IP, and I'm happy that I get to kinda have this kind of combination of, like, It's tricky. And I think Um, but I think people Like, when I did, um... - I did an Established Titles brand deal. Uh, because we, like - That's the &quot;buy a tiny you get to be called a Lord,&quot; or whatever? And then, um... This was before anything And to me, I was like, &quot;Oh, fun gag gift.&quot; - It's kind of like a cute, twee... - Um... Where it's like, But that's all the stuff that goes on in the e-mails back and forth. &quot;OK, this seems cute. This seems silly. And as long as those things Turns out, it's kinda based on a - Like, it's not really doing The money is, like, going to the causes - And so I was also lied to. You know? So, in that situation, I just immediately and broke contract as soon as I found out, uh... what, um... what was going on there, because it turned out And it turns out that I had been sort of - and other creators, too. Like, I don't think people Until, you know, you take - afterward, or whatever. Because, you know, it's like we - Everyone was kind of lied to And it's like I could have done better vetting, but... What people don't realize is that you know, um... I generally try to do vetting myself, but also the agencies that are like the same agencies - that are working with so many brands. So it's like the same brand the special shirt, the TC Tuckers, or whatever they're - - Oh, the little button tugger, or, uh, Dan Flashes. Yeah, the same brand might bring you this other thing. And so - - Nestle. and you build up trust And then suddenly... everybody gets caught in this thing, I'm not complaining, by the way. at the end of the day. And I, you know, I did the stuff that you're supposed to do. But, um, sometimes that trust is broken. Sometimes mistakes happen. But the goal is to... If you're advertising anything, - material harm to anyone. I mean, people sometimes ask why I don't do videos You know, to be completely honest, I was doing them because I was having a fun enough time making them, but I was... constantly flying. I was constantly going Most of my time was still taken up with the things with my mum, That was just a nine-to-five, And also, you know, you start from zero I'm like, &quot;Oh, shit, &quot;I need to fix this thing.&quot; Or I ordered something from Amazon; other focuses, but that was my income, and then as soon as Sad Boyz covered that, the focus shifted, 'cause this is fun. It's fun to grow. It's fun to work on. In different chunks. it's fun to put together. And if I can... I was just discussing, you know, all the contributing factors, discussing coming back I think... I mean, those ads would But that would be with this, like, &quot;Oh, great, the energy and the enthusiasm now gets to making another thing and then feeds back into Now that I don't have that anxiety... I just, I do feel like and that's the sympathy I extend out to those indie creators - that are, you know, obliged to - just like anyone can be... Like, I did more brand deals last year... Or I think I was less discerning. I gave myself more ad spaces to fill in more videos, because, just due to some there was more financial strain on me. And it's like, everything's fine but then there are external factors and things that you need to, like, uh, things that you want And so when those things happen, it's like, &quot;OK, well, I can take more...&quot; You know, no one loves doing ads, but it's like... one of those things where - I just think of the criticism of, like, &quot;Oh, you can just make less money,&quot; or &quot;You can hire fewer people,&quot; and those things are all true, but it's like I wanna make sure that, you know, you and our team can all live a comfortable life and not stress about - these things. And that's like - &quot;Has to&quot; is... You know, I could not pay the expenses back in the UK. I'm not, like, legally obliged, to support me or the team, nor... but... It's what you want to do, Yeah, it's like we're figuring it out, We're trying, and... I think it's like anything when you're - It's like a small business. It's a small business, And I want it to stay Um, but that means, like, every individual person you know, uh, care a lot more, because it's not like a... 'Cause people - You know, it's like our team's like... like, really, it's like Um, and... I feel a lot of trust has been put in me from, you know, people with their work, and with their careers. to do right by those people. And if I don't feel like then at the end of the day I could all That's an option too. allows us to do things like this. If I was just working by myself, I don't think I'd be because I'm just - - my brain doesn't allow it. Yeah, I would just be working all the time. It's like, you know, you saw with - You know, MatPat is retiring. - Is that what all the trending stuff was? He sold the company a while back, and I think he's stepping back from being a face now on - And... Mm, it's a game theory. But it's also the truth. - And, uh... That's how he should end the videos. &quot;And that's not just a theory.&quot; &quot;And that's the case.&quot; Yeah. So, like, where... You know, him and Tom Scott You know, it's like they've so consistently, so hard - both of them, very hard workers. - Joel Haver no longer doing weekly videos. It's like, I... respect all those people for what they've built and what they've... They've also all been nice to me. Every one of those people Um, and, uh... And so I also get that. And I know I'm like a burnout risk, so I try to do what I can to, like, balance what I am - what's the sweet spot, you know, for doing what we wanna do There's pride in it, too. I think it's like, uh... It's a different kind of career, and it feels fulfilling to do it right. Like, it feels fulfilling - It's a... It's a different kind of success. you know, they had X or Y goal and then they became a dad. And now it's like, &quot;Oh, I could leave, but I like - This part is mutually fulfilling - in a completely different way.&quot; And flexes a different skillset, - Yeah. But anyway, conspiraciiiiies. - None of it's true! - I don't believe in Jarvis. - What is going on with - What is the - can we - Be careful. Whoa, it's me. - Shadow illegal alien. - You are the shadow alien. It's your visa. [JACOB] So, the only result in the Miami alien. They really kinda - that has good SEO So, congrats on &quot;shadow alien&quot; and, you know, the people on, uh, - UFO Twitter, I guess. Um, what is the episode of Ancient Aliens - called &quot;The Shadow People&quot;? 2022. Oh, wow. That show is still going? Yeah, dude. Season 18?! - [JARVIS] That's uncouth. (laughing) Yeah, that's... &quot;Millions of people around the world who instill fear, shortness of breath, - and even&quot; - At a mall! And even walk between buildings - with two friends. &quot;Is it possible that the are more than mere &quot;Could they be visitors from other worlds, - No. Mysterious reports of shadow people are handcuffing criminals They wield guns, - and sometimes they use their power - - Ooh, no, bad ways. - And that's why they're shadow. - They're cops. What if the shadow aliens Yeah, they've just - &quot;What are they?&quot; Uh, let's move on to our next conspiracy, which is the craziest airline shit. We've talked about airplanes before, - The biological attack. The bio-attack from a single man's bowels. - Bioterrorism from a tourist. Yeah, his lower intestine - is a bioterrorist. - just as much as anyone. OK, so what I know about this - and we've got some resources, is that, uh, was it the exit door? [JACOB] It wasn't an exit door. [JACOB] It was where had there been more seats on the plane. [JACOB] So, it was - OK. So - thank you, Jacob. It's like a space, though, in the plane and it just... like, blew out. - Hell yeah, dude. - Oh my god. in the flight, in the plane. - Oh, you're not supposed to have those. - [JACOB] Parts of them. Then they had to emergency-land the plane. - So, that's nice. open the doors on a plane, then. - Go ahead, if you're flying soon. - Yeah, that's true. You can - - And, as a result, sky law, not illegal. That's what DB Cooper did, landed in my backyard, - Take that out of the podcast. - Conspiracy! DB Cooper's in my house! His name is Dan... Bouie! &quot;Bouie.&quot; Bouie-Cooie. They call him &quot;Buoy&quot; - I guess he would have to have. because we live much unlike the shadow aliens conspiracy, - there's a ton of video evidence of this. And a ton of people &quot;Holy shit!&quot; - &quot;There's 200 cops on this plane!&quot; - they're all trying to get to the sky. Yeah, they're Fast-and-Furious-ing it, into the sky. This is like a lot of people's These things - I have to Uh, what is the logical fallacy called? Um... it's a form of selection bias, but... Let's look this up. It's when you think, um, plane crashes are more common, 'cause you see them - Oh, it's the availability heuristic. Um... Wait, did I just Yes! The availability heuristic! - I did it! I did it! I re-earned my A in psychology. Um, availability heuristic, &quot;When asked are a more likely most people would say OK, well, I don't know But anyway, I understand And... and even stories like this, I want to remind us of the availability heuristic, because every single time a plane crashes it makes national news, - because everyone has this fear already. So, you have access to so many... In your brain, you have access to so many events of bad things happening with planes that you think that it is - than is actually common. Whereas, like, car crashes - that they're not news. short of like a 2,000-car pile-up Yeah, and it's like, uh - Jacob, can you Google how many people Not to get dark. Wow. Can you look up Um, will you now look up, uh, how many people die Or even COVID right now. People are acting like - Um... before COVID happened. But the, um, infection rate the mortality rate is still really high. Long COVID is still something It's still coronavirus. Like, it is still the thing So, anyway, all I wanted to say is, - Conspiracyyy! - for this fact. I just wanna acknowledge the risk the availability heuristic I will continue to fly. I don't have any fear of flying. I'm like a stats guy, and I know - Yeah. - getting on a flight. phobia-style fears for me are just eliminated as soon as - If somebody tells me information - You're valid if you have a phobia. - Sorry if I made it seem like not that. - [JACOB] I have a couple stats now. [JACOB] So, the chances are less than 1 in 11 million. - Yeah. in a car crash are 1 in 93. - That is SO crazy. That is - that is, uh, like, on the order of... - like 100,000 times more likely. That's also not... - That does not include collisions. Sorry; I did the math wrong. 1 in 11 million; 1 in 93. So, that is, uh - to get 93... million, you would have to... multiply 1 by 9 million. - [JACOB] Yeah, 118,000 times more likely. - [JACOB] Yeah. and then I second-guess myself. OK. Yeah, it's 100,000 times more likely. Yeah. - And, uh - - That's not car crashes. That's likelihood of dying in a car crash. Whoa, wait. What is the 1 in 93? The likelihood of...? [JACOB] The chances Mmhmm. - Not getting into a car crash. - What is an event, though, for that? 'Cause I'm like, is it getting into a car? It means it's 1 of your 93? 'Cause I feel like we Yeah, falling into the engine. &quot;Ahhh!&quot; It's like you're more likely - than to get a shiny Eevee. Are they saying, yeah, IF you get in a car crash? - Oh, yeah. That's true. Yeah. Hmm. [JACOB] So, less than OK, so maybe it's the 1 in 93 was like the chances of dying in a car crash? - Uh, but - That's if you're already in a car crash. - [JACOB] Or if you get in a car crash? OK. This is from Esurance, so it's the insurance people. Maybe. I don't know. Um, Esurance says, &quot;Your odds are 1 crash out of 366 for every 1,000 miles distance driven.&quot; So, every 1,000 miles, - there's a 1-in-366 chance that you get into an accident. Which is, like, still pretty common. - Uh... And then there's a But, uh, that number is still It would be - it is essentially practically impossible to get merked in a plane, in a flight, if you tried for your entire life. - [JARVIS] Yeah, that's true. - blowing up the plane yourself. fly every day for decades not at risk of - or... OK, I have driven my car uh, for 14,000 miles. - Oh, you're overdue, mate. - I'm gonna make sure that it happens. I mean, we're also accounting for, like... The source of a lot of and also a lot of aside from trauma triggering them people in general - really don't like feeling powerless. Like, it's unsettling It's why some people don't like drinking, Some people don't like being passengers or vice versa. I just... don't personally have but I think one of the reasons or were so scared of the vaccine - is 'cause they don't understand it. But they've also never understood or they don't know how nutrition works, People who drunk-drive also refuse to get the vaccine. There's no real correlation between, like, actually how dangerous it is But the worst feeling in the world is someone jumping up behind you, You wanna know who it was, and you wanna be ready to learn And I think when the door it's like, &quot;Well, shit, man. In fact, I'm not scared of flying at all, and then on our last flight The person I was with - is pretty nervous about flying, so my focus was so much on them But every time that happens, &quot;Hey, can one of the Even if they're lying, come out and go, &quot;Hi, I'm a flight attendant and this is completely normal.&quot; &quot;I do this multiple times a day every day.&quot; &quot;Don't be scared. This has happened 5,000 times Just something, because then all of us &quot;Oh, the doctor did the surgery,&quot; or &quot;The doctor told me that As opposed to me having to For anyone following, um, along at home - This is gonna be great if I die. Knock on wood. Uh, Jarvis's chances of dying so far... This is like the micromorts thing. - But anyway, um... So, I did the math, like the cumulative probability So I've driven 14,000 miles Not that much. I don't drive that much. so that's 14 1-in-366 chances, which, when you do the math, um, I have a 4% chance that I've gotten into an accident by now. 4% chance, given - If someone drives 14,000 miles right now, uh, 4% chance - of getting into an accident. - Um... were to sabotage your brakes? 100%. But if you take that now it's four-tenths of a percent Oh, so if the car exploded, maybe, - I put something - someone put - I'm not trying to kill you I got super distracted on that, The conspiracy is that Um, so, uh, yes, there's a bunch of This is a little, uh - Trigger warning if you because I do think - that this would activate that. - Yeah. That was the... I mean, Well, no, it was - so, what Jacob described is the plug, So it is probably like Oh, like the template - but this one doesn't need it. Um... - OK, can we watch one of these TikToks? Ooh, DeathTok. Sorry; conspiracyyyy. Ooooh! I don't believe in shadow... death. &quot;A plane from Portland to Ontario had to have an emergency landing due to a window bursting mid-flight.&quot; What? What? Oh, what? - [JACOB] This is after they landed. I was terrified they were gonna say, &quot;Once the door's back on, &quot;Uh, sorry about that. We forgot to put the [JACOB] That's the one - That photo is crazy. I thought you... I know it's just from movies or whatever; - So... - when you go in, no? The cabin is pressurized. But then when the doors open, that obviously fucks with the pressure. So I don't know what - like - I'm sure you get the bends or whatever. I'm like, was everybody... locked in their seats? - When that happened? [JACOB] I did a pretty deep dive - on this last night. [JACOB] So, what happened - only 20 minutes after they had taken off. [JACOB] So they were as opposed to, like, 40,000 - or whatever cruising altitude is. [JACOB] So they weren't, like, at a dangerously low pressure. [JACOB] Um, but it did, like, it was enough for them to have to use - the oxygen masks and stuff. [JACOB] And it was definitely windy, and some people's things got sucked out. [JACOB] Um, but thankfully no one was, like, you know, - sitting in that row next to the window. I saw, um, there's a guy I saw a tweet from him. He was like, &quot;I never miss flights, - and this was my flight.&quot; - Um... - Remember? Lost. This is where some of these - there's a lot of fear that, you know, people are, um... people are cutting corners Um, that's like a legitimate fear, 'cause there was that other, um, accident with the... - Boeing plane. - Yeah. As far as conspiracies go, conspiracy theorists indulging in is that even the word &quot;conspiracy&quot; [JARVIS] Mmhmm. People conspire. People in positions of - to benefit themselves. Fucking Epstein flight logs are - [JARVIS] Yeah. By the way, even if you're that thought Epstein kicked his own bucket, still was able to operate with the defense of famous, powerful people so they didn't get in trouble. - Prince Andrew was just able to do that. with Alex Acosta, the, uh, I wanna say the Attorney General of the state of Florida Where he, like, took this super light - Basically, Epstein got where he was, like, able to walk, and then there were not, like, um - Or it wasn't he was able to walk; it was like he went to jail for, like, a year or something, where he could leave - and he just had to return at night. Yeah, it was something super, like, lax. And you wonder how that stuff happens to people. And, you know, - some shit probably went down. including himself - conspired to give him as much because it benefited them and him, and the right people were compensated But when the word &quot;conspiracy&quot; it's associated with, &quot;Oh, yeah, He went to Champs at the mall Yeah, it's like we have this habit of conflating terms - Like &quot;AI,&quot; like &quot;conspiracy.&quot; - &quot;Gaslighting.&quot; Lying is another thing. It's not always gaslighting. Could we go back to that Sniped Sox tweet? I wanted to shout out this person for the goated move of missing your flight. - [JORDAN] Ah, Brawlhalla. and streamer. Um... And, uh, and a caster, They were like, &quot;This was my flight. but yesterday I did. One of the and the two seats next to the exit One of those seats were mine. - And I'm like... - Yeah. might've pulled the seat off. Well, this is - so, this is the conspiracy which is the &quot;burnt toast theory.&quot; I heard the term. I... Is it like when Jesus is on toast? Yeah, it's when you burn your toast... - Nooooo! - And it's sick. - Some people like that. - That would suck. Is those little crispy-crunchy burnt edges - of, like, a bagel or something. - Mmm, yummy-yummy. - savory topping, hello! Uh, I think this person Like, um, later in the thread. But I feel like they'd have considering they're not in a, um... They're not in like a shitposting career. If it was a random shitposting guy - public-facing job.&quot; Yeah, they don't work for Ryanair, - Um, but I don't know. Who knows? - Ayyy. - Mile-high club. Um, OK, let's go - You had some other stuff [JACOB] Yeah, this was another angle - of in flight. - It was Alaska Airlines? - Dude, that's my go-to. Wow, that's not a very long flight. Wait, wasn't there something - Oh, that guy had a connection, I guess. - Ontario, California. Oh, that reminds me, - Nice. Uh, shoutout to the sky. And I was asleep, right? I wake up. Uh, I hear, &quot;We're making an And I go, &quot;Whaaaat?&quot; - &quot;Ew, Canada.&quot; I was going to, like, Seattle or something. I was like, &quot;Why are we going to...? I guess I'm gonna go back to sleep.&quot; And then I woke up fully thinking I was going to Canada for some reason. And then I realized that and then I was like, &quot;Now I gotta...&quot; They were like, &quot;We're not You just have to find a ride home.&quot; So then I had to get an Uber - from Ontario, California to my house. Was that when you were Yeah, it was recent. Um... It was like in April - I don't know where I was traveling to. - Some sort of - Yeah, they were like, - &quot;I hate flying.&quot; - &quot;Get him!&quot; Um, &quot;The Ontario shadows!&quot; - Looking at any shadow, going, - &quot;What the hell?&quot; &quot;He's chasing me!&quot; - &quot;He's on our tail!&quot; - Yeah. Um... OK, we can watch this. That's wild. That is, by the way, I would be so scared - to pull my phone out. Oh my god. I know they... whoa. Hey. - They decided to go Club Alaska, dude. Yeah, well they didn't know for the emergency exit. I wonder if this is going to, uh... Like, they're gonna retrofit and just remove the seats Yeah, I'm so - OK, so what did you learn about, like... What else did you learn, Jacob? I thought we were saying that to the pilot. - &quot;Don't fly.&quot; [JACOB] Um, it was a relatively new plane. Yeah, the Max 9, 'cause they grounded the - I remember the 737 Max had, like, - two crashes last year. - And it was new, a new plane. [JACOB] Yeah, the Max 8 had a crash in late 2018 and early 2019, and then they grounded - all of the Max planes - for like 20 months. - Jesus. [JACOB] So that was crazy. the Max 9 comes out late this last year, um, just a couple months ago. [JACOB] And now they're That's crazy, 'cause I remember hearing all the stuff about... Boeing, like, not cutting corners, but like they were, there were things that weren't caught. &quot;Boeing CEO admits error.&quot; - Yeah, I'll say. [JACOB] They grounded 170 jets, um... - [JACOB] after the incident. Shoutout, Nesrin, um, a Sad Boyz guest, former guest. On her Story, she was flying somewhere &quot;My plane got grounded 'cause it was Hey, why aren't they making new planes? Well, that's interesting. I mean, that's the thing. - Add a wing, at least. It's crazy, 'cause A lot of the technology they're adding - [JORDAN] Oops. I guess ironic? Yeah. &quot;Don't worry. Nothing else can go wrong. - It's just the door part.&quot; That's also the most, like, I don't know if &quot;embarrassing&quot; is the worst way for something &quot;We have a fuel leak,&quot; OK, They can land. It's still a bad piece of This is... Jesus. - No, it's crazy. Oh, wait, what was the burnt toast thing? Oh, yeah. Well... So, the burnt toast theory is that... Burnt toast theory, to me, is the small inconveniences, like burning your toast are actually saving you from, like, a grander bad event, - or a greater consequence. &quot;They said the two people who were supposed to sit there So, that's the thing. The idea for burnt toast theory is that they missed their flights, when it actually saved them Having a bad flight? It didn't save their lives. No, like, the theory is it could have the people who would've Oh, from those seats? Yeah, those seats were not populated. Those people missed their flight. - Um... No, no. There's like two other - There's seats right next to that area, - which may have dislodged or something. [JACOB] Parts of the seat, uh, - (Jarvis cringing) - (Jarvis cringing) We should find out. - They're just bad at flying. Yeah. Oh, I guess he was - Or he just missed the flight also. Well, 'cause he had the seat number [JACOB] A 10-foot alien visited them - and said, &quot;Don't take your flight.&quot; The burnt alien theory. 50 teenagers set off &quot;Don't go!&quot; He lives in Miami. - &quot;Don't do it!&quot; &quot;We have news. Ah, - They're there to arrest the plane. OK, so the CEO, Or did they say anything? [JACOB] Um, the CEO apparently saying that the company &quot;would ensure an accident like the can never happen again.&quot; - Gorilla Glue. Extra screening from TSA. Make sure that... make sure that no, um... - no doors make it on the plane. - Yeah. [JACOB] Apparently, they have found other Max 9s that have had loose door plugs. - That's crazy. Do we have wings? Are they falling off? Is there a bit at the front And then are the doors - Before everything else. my brain always goes, &quot;This is probably a situation where - the bigwigs are trying to cut costs.&quot; They're, um, cutting corners, and then the people doing the work are um, because the people wanna... 'cause they've got investors, and they wanna increase And then those things, those bottom lines, become more important than safety. And this is, like, why, uh... You know, this is why - This is a critique, I think, - of like a free-market system. Because, left to their own devices, when everyone prioritizes profit, you need catastrophic, horrible things And one would argue that before you make sure And the truth is this is not gonna have It's gonna be a story for a week, and most people aren't They're just gonna know They're not gonna know which plane. And they wanna go home for Thanksgiving. It's also like, who else You know? Like, 'cause - American plane manufacturer, and I think historically they do have the best safety record. - I think. - This one really dinged them. - It's still only one plane. But then, yeah, But I don't know, 'cause I know that, uh, I think it was like Airbus used to but then they've become and then they have, like, Maybe Boeing is working more on, like, the self-flying stuff Um... But I don't know. There's so many It's like a modern marvel - that planes work. - Shoutout, Wright brothers. bits of it. You know? As far as let's get people to check I think that's a really good thing they probably haven't thought of. - To shoot the door; see how strong it is. You ever seen those videos - [JARVIS] Oh, yeah. Terrifying. Can I just - sorry. That first one, statement of the two people that's great. Cool. Remarkable. Uh, I don't so much believe - but it's cool. Thank fuck. The other burnt toast theory - This is just the definition, I guess. &quot;If you burn your toast in the morning, - I don't know if I'd call it &quot;a toast.&quot; &quot;May have saved you from a car accident.&quot; That is some American exceptionalism bull - - That's some protagonist mindset stuff. Like, &quot;Well, I'm the main character, so...&quot; Actually, 'cause what it could also be I do sometimes think about, uh... existing as the main character, 'cause, like, it raises the question of, um, you know, what happens &quot;The plot has to continue. They can't -&quot;I have plot armor.&quot; That's what burnt toast theory is. It's also kind of a cope. It's like, no, - Yeah. Um, one time, uh... I'm actually proud of myself. I feel like One time, it was wet in San Francisco, and I was walking to the BART And I remember I slipped. I had, like, brand-new white shoes on. I slipped, and I fell into the mud or something, and I got mud all over everything. And then I just picked myself up - I scraped myself up, too. I went back home; Like, got changed... Or took a shower, got back in bed, and pretended like I was - starting my day again. - Yeah. Yeah, burned a little toast. How many toasts do you want? That probably saved me frommm... - Falling in the mud a second time? - from falling in the mud. - Maybe you looked like shit. - then I would have fallen in the mud. - Yeah. those board shorts - that you were wearing that day. I ripped my pants like SpongeBob. Yeah, your zip was open. - Your penis was out. And then Jesus, like, [JARVIS] Yeah, he was on the toast; - he started talking from the toast. Yeah, that's what he'll say. (laughing) Yeah, the... - Uh, just clip of that in context. that they, um, they killed they set it up beforehand. There's a clip of There's a clip of the announcer going, - (laughing) Like he's God. It's so funny. &quot;He must exit this mortal coil.&quot; &quot;Mm, yum.&quot; OK. Someone found the phone, - and then a man found the door. I assumed they were just So, I wanna see these TikToks. Oh, he claims. (calling bullshit) OK. Oh, I know the answer to that. It doesn't matter, 'cause they're lying. - [JORDAN] Is the thing. Why is that open?! Yeah, I don't know why That's what I do. First thing I do when - is I keep my flight receipt open. - I don't listen to music at all. The wall has been and you're like, - &quot;Just to confirm!&quot; possible that it could fall from that high. - [JORDAN] Oh, yeah. and, um... - Yeah. - it's not gonna pick up a lot of speed. It's like it's - yeah. Well, um... You know, it hits terminal velocity... - Yeah. It's just not gonna - - It's a soft bush. the same amount of speed. Why is this the...? Oh, &quot;How can an iPhone survive a fall from a plane?&quot; - That's funny. Well, it's like if it &quot;Not from your pocket.&quot; - It's different. Also, if it falls - you know, like, people have survived, um... - plane crashes. By, like, hitting - Or people have fallen because they hit some branches and it kind of breaks their fall, in a way. So that could happen. I... - Hey. As far as anyone, this is a baseball cap. This is, uh, a full fedora. &quot;This guy claims he found the phone.&quot; It's the receipt being on the - I don't - - Why even lie about that? The most unethical ad would be if he turned it around and it just had a giant Oh, dude, someone even said Are you sponsored, dawg? Like, uh, it just says, like, &quot;Unbreakable, by OtterBox.&quot; (cringing) &quot;Plane Safe.&quot; OK, I don't know about that, [JORDAN] Or did he take a screenshot - He found it before it broke off. In one piece?! This guy rocks. He's very sweet. - He's very physics teacher energy. in my backyard that's not normally there.&quot; I'm a sucker for - &quot;There's almost never plane in my yard.&quot; And he could maybe explain to me how the door didn't break apart. And how the OtterBox - was able to protect the phone. You saw - he planted a forest back there. - He did. I heard that, actually. There's a bunch of He's like, &quot;I planted a forest.&quot; - He also planted some Easter eggs. - Yeah, that's why it's, uh... All the hipsters... All the lumberjacks, uh... The fake lumberjacks - like, - so all the trees are not cut down. - They're all, like, holding a replica axe. - $2,000 on a plaid shirt. - I believe him. I don't know where you get that, otherwise. Um, it was like on Yahoo News. I'm like, hopefully they fucking checked. But he seems... I've got high-school physics teacher bias, Oh my god. Sorry; can we got stuck in the fucking vase? That is the beginning and end - 'cause it's just the funniest shit ever. It... I mean, yeah, it's Skibidi Toilet. He is. It's Skibidi Toilet. It's, uh, what's-his-face from Elden Ring. (laughing) Dude, his whole race. (deep voice) &quot;Ooh, I wish someone &quot;I was bored at the wedding, and I wanted to draw He spins around with two swords. [MAN IN VASE] I'M DOING [MAN IN VASE] GODDAMNIT! - Why is he mad? - Did they put him in it? - like a bully stuffed him into a locker? and they're breaking in. Yeah. &quot;How dare you!&quot; - &quot;Get away from my house&quot; is wild. Um, hopefully that's in jest, right? Like, maybe he's No, dude. I think he's got a, like, arm stuck in a banister, like, panic. - The fear is taking over. - No one's putting olive oil on him. [MAN IN VASE] MY SWEATER OFF? that didn't do shit. [WOMAN] You got it, Connor! [WOMAN] Look, you can do it! [WOMAN] Connor, just pull your body out. [WOMAN] His knees are hitting! Nothing but, like, I - They were almost my entire you know, nothing but love But drunk white women have a superhero complex. It is like... &quot;Everybody move aside! There was, um, some - It was my second or third year that happened outside of a club. And like an hour later, small town, but there's two police officers chatting to people that And they were swarmed with white women. All of them come up and, like, (drunkenly) &quot;I can help solve the case.&quot; &quot;Let me, let me, let me talk to them.&quot; If one person gets broken up with 30 white women, just surrounding them. There truly is - and it's But the fact that, like, he's just like, &quot;My knees are fucking stuck!&quot; - &quot;I can solve this.&quot; Like one of those, when the lights - and there's people with the little flags. So, he got out of the vase, right? - He's not still in it today? He's not doing, like, the thing... (Jordan creaking) - Yeah, this is wild. - There's so many questions. he did not put himself in the vase, - Um... but it kinda feels like he put himself - Oh, they broke it with a hammer. &quot;He saw other people do it, OK. Well, then you It looked fun. (laughing) Does it? Dude, when the wedding is so boring - you're putting yourself into a vase - to have fun. I will say, though, Jarvis, - that looks fun. I am imagining the moment - where everyone's laughing along with him and thinking he's doing a bit, - and then he goes, &quot;NO, guys.&quot; - &quot;IT'S SERIOUS.&quot; - &quot;I CAN'T get out of the vase.&quot; pain, like it's kicking in, I try - And I'm like, &quot;Get me out!&quot; 99% of those people are not being helpful, and even the people being helpful What could - the guy to the left of frame, - what could he possibly be doing? - &quot;I'm gonna massage the vase!&quot; &quot;I'm gonna activate a frequency - Also, it looks like an expensive vase. I'm glad it wasn't, like, made - The first thing I thought was, The second thing I thought was, - Yeah. - They'd have to use a blowtorch. I mean, they have to be - Did the fire department come do it, - to get a hammer? a comically tiny hammer in their purse. - &quot;Ting-ting!&quot; Here's my conspiracy: What if this is a scene from a movie? - 'Cause... 'Cause this would - now, Maybe it's an ad for hammers. - (laughing) what the endgame would be. - It's an ad for weddings. Like, the more... You know how people film sketches Like, um... I feel like this is - &quot;Oh, we'll do it for the 'gram.&quot; [JACOB] I'm gonna start staging - to talk about on the podcast. It's always Jacob. Yeah, Jarvis got his head stuck Someone cut Jarvis's brakes What? I didn't say shit. Jarvis was, uh, oiled up to get out of a vase, but then was driving and slipped out of the seatbelt because he was so oiled up. 'Cause his car was so damp. He was so slippery, dude. - [JORDAN] Who would have done that? - It was me. You open my phone, and it's Yeah. &quot;This phone was found on the scene.&quot; - Yeah, I threw my phone away. &quot;I can't - I can't open it!&quot; Oh, dude, I cannot get over the fact that he was like, &quot;No, it looked fun.&quot; Did it? - It doesn't look very fun. &quot;Tell me with a straight face All right. Yeah, you're right. I think I would - you know, - Look, I would probably get in a vase. I'm fun. I like to have a good time, - Nothing is happening at the wedding. - Um... - Maybe it fell off. and he's like, trying to get - You can just hear, &quot;HELP ME!&quot; Yeah, you get Running around! - Running around. You look like a Goomba. Yeah. &quot;OOH.&quot; You need to jump on his head to free him. - Yeah. That's wild. Next conspiracy - I didn't watch the Golden Globes; I just scrolled on Twitter Yeah, we didn't watch them 'cause - No one has ever seen them. so normally I would drop to watch any joke that Yeah, I know his strongest material - writing team of 30 people. so I was like, &quot;Hoo-wee, - &quot;This is gonna be something.&quot; There was some sort of live feed online for the Golden Globes, it was just this table with talking sweet nothings to each other, - which felt very invasive. Or manufactured, I guess, I guess, yeah. But I'm like... It sounds so exhausting I... don't get horny on main, you know what I mean? Yeah. It is interesting. But yeah, and then they kissed, and then it was like a weird... It was a peck. I assume it was - probably needed to be on camera, didn't wanna mess anything up. Um, but people read into that because people were like, &quot;FREEZE-FRAME!&quot; - &quot;Their lips aren't touching!&quot; Yeah, you're not allowed to touch lips It doesn't work. - that gets in the way. Shoutout to Evangelion fans. I have kissed people, And it's just, like, just this on a feed. - Oh, OK. Let's do the voice-over. I just think it's really How am I supposed to (even more British) Is it Timo-thee or Timo-thay? It's Charlie and the Chocolate Fact'ry. I love this sparkly jacket. - It's on my lips, yeah. That's the one makes you fly. - Wait, one more time. Did you see the guy Actually, I don't really look at memes. Oh, I love memes. Check it out. I found a door - I found the phone. - Don't touch them, though. - Yeah, they hold it up. So, then - So that was going on, And then some people, like stans and stuff, believe it's maybe a staged relationship, so I think that's why they took that kiss - - Very sane, very normal thing to do. - in their love lives. Um, and so then, Selena Gomez They're besties, I think. I don't know. Are they besties? We're gonna get in trouble if they're not. - Um, they're buddies. They're besties. We are the arbiters of this. And so the word on the street is that Selena Gomez was going to - At the event still? uh, &quot;She didn't let me &quot;She...&quot; Unknown &quot;she&quot;? - Oh, Kylie. Like, uh, apparently - - Yes, I see. which is also just so weird. They lip-read this conversation &quot;She's saying, 'I asked him And then she's like, &quot;Who?&quot; And then this other girl - No, this other girl And she goes, &quot;Yeah.&quot; &quot;I asked for a picture with him... - she said no.&quot; [JACOB] And here's another angle. - Whoa. Full pog. OK, let me look at it without - - Let me look at - let me really study it. &quot;No.&quot; - &quot;Mmhmm.&quot; - (both gasp) She pogged. I - look. I don't know how to lip-read. OK? I think... there cannot be enough people that are genuinely very good at lip-reading to have a consensus for stans. Not that - there could be 100,000 people that watch this video and are capable of lip-reading. For whatever reason. The 18 million views that this has, - I do not think is related to that. - The millions of people. I wanna see strife and confusion. - I wanna see Rife. &quot;I'm sorry, but, like, What does Selena Gomez Uh, she's in a show. - Doing really well. The... No Murders in the Building. - &quot;She's slaying.&quot; - Always. She's mothering. &quot;If this is real, that's so silly, 'cause they literally know each other - and they've done a movie together.&quot; - &quot;Is this true?&quot; were not photographed together, - &quot;What happened to Jordan?&quot; - Is Jordan being replaced?&quot; What was that shit? I can't even remember. Well, I think I know - but I didn't wanna say that one. - Uh, just out of respect. - It was, uh, a VidCon photo. Yeah. - Um... getting this monologue?&quot; Yeah. &quot;I just know these are That person's having Just unrelated. Sure. I just know it, OK? I just know. Uh, &quot;I don't know, but it's just a thought, but does anyone even have been talking about something else?&quot; Or someone else. - Like, literally anything. People are like this, uh... Savannah James, LeBron James's partner, wife, - um... Like, there was some story about how she doesn't take photos with men and only takes photos with women, and then every alpha dude was like, &quot;'Cause she's the last good one left, 'cause she knows how to respect her man and not, like, do anything to whatever.&quot; And then, uh, there was a guy who took a selfie and she poses for it. - that entire, like, narrative. It's just so - they're so - [JARVIS] Yeah. No real adult even knows When you show them like - just like, &quot;What is this? Let go of me.&quot; &quot;Freak.&quot; What was the dramatic interpretation? [JACOB] So, this is something that - - OK. Yeah, let's watch it. Uh, &quot;A couple hours ago, Kylie Jenner broke up Selena And there's also text on the - what? - Do you wanna read that one? Uh, so, yeah, there's that above in yellow, and then it's and that part says, &quot;Selena Gomez to take a picture together. and answered for both of them.&quot; OK. - This is such a reach. According to who? &quot;Selena Gomez was so shocked and disappointed Timo-thay - &quot;and told Taylor.&quot; - &quot;Star&quot;? Oh, no. That's not. - Whaaat? (gasps) - &quot;Timo&quot; - Timma - Timma-thay? &quot;didn't say anything,&quot; &quot;He just stood behind Kylie - and hurt his childhood best friend.&quot; - Whoa, slow down, dude. How do you know he didn't say anything? &quot;Everyone laughed and was happy.&quot; - That's fucking hilarious. - &quot;While Selena Gomez's heart was broken.&quot; She's in a relationship. This is... millimeters away from fanfiction. - This is literally - - This is Jeff the Killer fanfiction. &quot;He realized that she wasn't feeling well.&quot; &quot;Inaudible shit-talking.&quot; - Oh, is that him realizing? They edited him looking - - (both laughing) &quot;Taylor Swift noticed that he went to her.&quot; No, &quot;noticed and went to her.&quot; &quot;...&quot; &quot;Kylie has managed to make - I... it's just amazing - I think maybe one of the - Look, first of all, they're and the most dramatic thing is which could be for any reason. But also, like, it's just... They contain multitudes. - And they are, like, famous people - who are all insane. She could've been putting because she got These are crazy people. Well, I mean, even if they're not, - there's so many reasons for any - And so it's funny, too - I don't even know that the spatial - I don't even know if the floor plan works out where, like, Timothee looking over is looking, like, - in the right place. That was like a cutaway. And then I also liked when and instead of captioning it, - Uh, but then - But then, like, TMZ - hunted Timothee Chalamet down. [PAPARAZZO] Hey, Tim, how you doing? [PAPARAZZO] Hey, did you deny Kylie, um - - Hold on. Pause. Maybe when you're accosting - prepare a little more. [JARVIS] Yeah. [PAPARAZZO] Did you deny, uh, &quot;Reporting.&quot; [PAPARAZZO] Can you shut down the rumors? - [TIMOTHEE] What are the chances [TIMOTHEE] That you were - [PAPARAZZO] But they're good, right? - Yeah. I don't know that I - I can only imagine He's probably confused. He probably has no idea - Yeah. Yeah, 'cause he's like, &quot;What are the chances that I'm just and you were waiting around the corner - Yeah. In camo. They popped out of a bush, What are the - I mean, the reason is, &quot;What are you asking me?&quot; &quot;Did something happen with Selena?&quot; Like, 'cause everyone is where they already have That's like when that guy on Twitter - was like, &quot;the Las Vegas family.&quot; - What are you talking about? and they went, &quot;Where's Kurtis's gecko?&quot; - Like, &quot;Did you do what they said?&quot; - I don't... he has a gecko? I don't believe he has one, Um... I don't - What's funny to me is, uh, the stans who are like, &quot;He looks so good.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Madam, he was Only 2% of his face He's dressed like an assassin. - Uh, not gonna lie - I'm really into ninjas.&quot; He has a katana on his back. &quot;Not gonna lie; I love him so much, and his looks, but I mainly Heart, and then a kinda hug emoji. &quot;We need to give him more space, though.&quot; Shiny heart, globe. &quot;He's amazing. People need stop.&quot; I mean, well said. Well said by &quot;Ur mom.&quot; Yeah, that's right. What? I do love that, uh, &quot;I love him so much, and his looks, but mainly - The way he looks and acts. I mean, that's awesome. Good for him. You know he used to, uh... He, like, made YouTube videos - Loser, dude! - Oh, he's not hot, then. - I'm stuffing that motherfucker in an urn. - [JARVIS] GET IN THERE! Stuff him in! Shoutouts. Uh, - People don't know that, presumably. Gonna make a statement - about all this stuff. we could get Timothee Chalamet in 2056 we have a shot. Yeah. Uh, I don't think - [JARVIS] OK. - I'll have a house at the time. We tried to do something - It was fun. We were just goofing and gaffing Had a big break where we talked Um, very much deviated from That's a Sad Boyz classic. Talk about something serious, look what happened with Timothee and... who was it? - Kylie Jenner. I just can't even remember. - It's like trying to look at an eclipse. Just like, &quot;Ugh.&quot; Good for them, though. Yeah. - I don't know them. Fuck. - he'll be coming through. this episode of Sad Boyz podcast. at the same bat place, same bat time right now, continuing with our Patreon bonus episode over on Patreon.com/SadBoyz. Extra episode every week, $5 a month. A whole episode. It's hours and hours of content. - Good value. - Bad. 10 cents... - an episode? Uh, with all that being said, much like the airplane door, we are off. - Um, we end every episode - and split. I'm gonna make like a door and fly off into Oregon, I guess. We end every episode of Sad Boyz Weeeeeeee love you. - And we're sorry. Every time we start this podcast, and then we go for an hour, Yeah, &quot;Ugh. Yuck.&quot; It's so funny to have that feeling of satisfaction - when I sat with my friend and chatted. And getting home, being like, &quot;Woof! - I best wash the dirt off my fingernails.&quot; &quot;I gotta go clean my work boots.&quot; That's true. (outro music)