Your alarm clock goes off. You rise, stretch and look out the window. Ah, another bright and sunny morning. You're walking the dog when all of a sudden, gigantic light switch. You look up into the sky, you can see a few The automatic street lights come on as you What's going on? Reports on the internet and TV seem to indicate But that couldn't happen, right? The sun couldn't suddenly extinguish, could What would happen to humanity if it did? How long could we survive if the sun went There have been a couple of times throughout the sun's ability to reach and warm the Notably, this happened in 1816 which became On April 10, 1815, Mount Tambora in Indonesia (41 cubic kilometres) or 10 billion tonnes with several gases including carbon dioxide, Ultimately the volcanic eruption caused severe including limited sun and a lack of summer In New England, there were several large snow Lakes stayed iced over for the entire year Salem, Massachusetts had triple digits in indicate that the temperature fell into the In August a hard freeze dominated New Hampshire The temperature fluctuations were detrimental famine in many regions. Famine led to disease and a cholera epidemic, Mass migration happened as people tried to The Year without a Summer also led to religious the world was ending and urged people to get The surface of the Sun is an astounding 5,800 substance known to man including diamond or Thankfully earth is rough 93 million miles the temperatures are much cooler. The sun is just far away enough from earth life. Scientifically, the sun wouldn't just stop When stars die, they expand. Most likely, the sun will expand into a into of our solar system including the earth as However, the sun evolving into a red giant worry too much about this happening. However, let's pretend that the sun suddenly Citizens of earth actually wouldn't know last of the sun's rays would still be on Depending on where the earth is in its orbit, 671,000,000 miles per hour (1,080,000,000 in just under 8 and a half minutes. So if the sun suddenly disappeared, it would dark. After that depending on where you are in the the planets in our solar system for the next stopped reflecting. The sky would definitely be darker than normal, from the moon. Distant stars would continue to shine and electricity would continue to work...for a The earth would immediately begin to cool. Within about a week of the sun vanishing, drop to 32 degrees Fahrenheit (0 Celsius). After a year without sun, the temperature Celsius). Over time the earth would become an ice planet, on the surface. Depending on depth, the water underneath would years, insulated by the surface ice. Just as much of a problem as the cold, is rapidly die. Without the sun, photosynthesis would immediately The majority of plants would be dead within Large healthy trees could possibly survive due to slow metabolism and substantial sugar However that assumes that the trees wouldn't Plants are autotrophs or primary producers would quickly follow. Then they would be followed by carnivores. Scavengers, assuming they could survive within Another problem if the sun suddenly vanished heavenly bodies in our solar system. The sun's gravitational mass controls orbit; would now continue their forward velocity That means for the earth we'd move towards Theoretically earth could get caught in the orbiting it. However, that's a process that would take Now that you have a sense of some of the underlying return to our scenario from the beginning. You rush home from walking the dog because Within the first 24 hours widespread panic society is breaking down. Immediately after the sun winks out, the media as to what's happening and why. It's the end of the world. God has forsaken us. Aliens have destroyed or blocked our sun. North Korea or Russia or whichever enemy country It won't take long before people begin to Sure governments will attempt to implement a few days everyone, everywhere will be severely from it. Warmer regions will maintain higher temperatures prepared for the cold as their manner of dress cooling. Extremely cold climates such as the Arctic If the sun vanishes while it's winter in life dying off would accelerate. As the poles of the earth cooled, the overall density grew. As the atmosphere drops, strong winds would These winds would increasingly grow colder strong currents at ground level. The water vapor in our atmosphere would condense Many places would be hit with blizzards. In addition to cold, wild weather, our atmosphere gasses by density. The higher density elements would drift to rise, thus disrupting the amount of breathable There's also the possibility that within a country would launch a nuclear weapon to responsible and start a nuclear war. Luckily no country started a nuclear war, you were living on the west coast of the US Living near the ocean is helpful, as the water You were smart, you spent a few hours braving that would help sustain your life such as fuel and non perishable food. After that, you and your family barricaded Assuming your group can stay alive for the rapidly becomes far less of a problem as the starvation, hypoxia, or violence. The first to pass away with be the old, infirm As society breaks down and people die, your In fact, as your town used solar powered street the start of this catastrophe. No electricity means no TV, internet and as As people struggle to keep themselves warm possible that large swathes of cities could their control. While the fires won't accelerate because to try to put the fires out either. But your dwelling doesn't catch fire. As you live slightly inland, thankfully you due to the wild weather and tidal changes. Three days after the sun vanishes, your group wonderland. Most of the population is dead, there's most of the remaining survivors are willing Your only chance for survival would be to habitat to live in.The best bet would be to Away from tectonic plate boundaries, geothermal depth (25 degC per km of depth) in most of So if you were able to create a habitat roughly at a balmy 75.5 degF (24.1 degC) degrees. That is assuming you could create and maintain food sources and breathable air systems. Also you would need good artificial light Sunlight is a natural pick me up for humans. Other options might be to build a habitat If you lived in Iceland, you would probably to heat your habitat. So if the sun vanished, the majority of humanity If you're willing to prepare for this possibility you might be able to sustain the human race pasty skin mole people. What's the first action you would take to Let us know in the comments! Also, be sure to check out our other video The Lost Colony of Roanoke Mystery! Thanks for watching, and, as always, don't See you next time!