(upbeat music) - Today is the day I've been waiting for for a very long time because my dear friend and to make me a big batch of - You know it. Now, you know we have traveled for how many years together, and I'm always searching out good donuts. And I've made so many donuts and also at home. And they always lead to disappointment. Yeasted donuts sometimes and we want really light - Oh, okay. - Yeah. - It is a texture thing. We want them to be tender and delicious enough that we - Gotcha. - All right. So the first thing that a lot of recipes go wrong is they Bread dough makes bready donuts. - Hello? And then one of the problems We're starting off with all purpose flour. So it's a little bit softer, So this is four and a half That's 22 and a half ounces. And we're going to add some sugar. I've got a half a cup of granulated sugar. Sugar is going to help with the tenderness and the softness of the donut. And I've got a teaspoon of instant yeast. All right. Just give this a quick mix by hand just to break up the flour there, incorporate everything. And now a little liquid. Now, this is one and a half cups of milk and just one egg. This is a large egg. So I'm going to give giving it a little head All right. Got the dough hook on. Lock it in place. Gonna mix this on medium low, really until it just becomes That's gonna take only two (mixer whirring) All right. Cohesive. - Mm-hmm. - So we're gonna leave this there. Thank you if you wouldn't mind handing me that bit of plastic wrap. And I just actually go ahead - [Julia] I do the same thing. - the beater and everything. - [Julia] Mm-hmm. - And we're gonna leave We want a little bit of gluten Now, these are not gonna be tough donuts, so we're gonna keep that gluten - [Julia] Okay-doke. - So 20 minutes. All right, so now I want to add the salt. Salt competes with the flour And that's why we waited to add the salt. That's one and a half Now we're gonna let the We wanna give the salt time to incorporate so about five, maybe seven minutes. And it's going to start to - Okay. - Starting to look like a All right, so that was five minutes. Let the salt incorporate. And now we're gonna add butter. This is eight tablespoons, just one stick of unsalted butter cut into these smaller pieces here. And these have slightly softened. We're gonna work this into the So I'm gonna put this back on medium low. (mixer whirring) Gradually add the butter And then we're gonna let the mixer run for another 7 to 13 minutes. (mixer whirring) Oh, what a difference! - [Julia] That is gorgeous. - [Bridget] Yeah, what a difference? - This only went seven minutes and it came together. - [Julia] Oh, it's so soft. - Yeah, check this out. It's really stretchy and elastic. Okay, that is great. And it cleared the sides of the bowl so we can get this dough out of there. All right. Bowl is greased a little I'm gonna flip it over just And then I'm going to shape it into kind of a rough ball here. Don't need to knead it on the countertop. So now a little bit of plastic wrap there. So we're gonna put this into the fridge and you wanna leave it in the fridge for at least overnight up It's gonna help to firm It's gonna be so easy So on the counter and The dough is well chilled. All right. - May I? - Please do. - [Julia] Huh! - [Bridget] Yeah. - It's really firm. - That's a sturdy dough. It's gonna be so much easier to roll out and stamp into donuts. All right, but it sometimes to get out of this bowl. So just using a bowl scraper here. Put a little bit of flour. And the great thing about this is pushing in it is a really good thing. We wanna get rid of any - Right. - to mold this into a square about an eight inch square. All right. - So now looking pretty good. I am going to just And get out my rolling pin. And I'm gonna roll this out to about 10 by 13 inch rectangle. And this is just a really forgiving dough. - [Julia] Look at that. - [Bridget] It's just, it's and I am working from the middle out. - [Julia] Mm-hmm. - And this... - And you can really handle this dough. You couldn't do this with a warm dough. So I'm looking for a and it should be about a half inch thick. All right, let's check this out. 10. All right, we got 13 this way. So it's time to start stamping. I've got a three inch biscuit cutter here. So I just wanna make sure that And I'm gonna go ahead and cut them all. Spacing them pretty close together. That's 12 of the three inch rounds. And now I've got another This is a one inch biscuit Let me get the donuts We've lined it with parchment and then sprayed it with Beautiful, lovely. But we can't forget our So, all right, that looks great. Now these need to rise a So we are gonna put these in the oven. The oven is turned off. We're gonna use it as a proofing box. So I've got a little bit of hot water. So I'm gonna need you to You're gonna pour a cup of water into a loaf pan that I've Gonna close the door. And we're gonna leave these in there again until That's gonna take anywhere All right, so our donuts - Mm-hmm. a knuckle test. That's where you just press just like that. And it should slowly spring back. Okay. All right, these are proofed beautifully. So I've got two quarts of vegetable oil and this has been heating to 360 degrees. It's a good idea anytime that you want to heat I'm gonna use two hands here and just softly lower them into the fat. And you see that it's just - [Julia] Yeah. - [Bridget] Just wanna know of course. All right, so I'll get all four in here. So we're gonna cook these on this far side and we wanna maintain an oil temperature of between three 350 and 365. - [Julia] Okay. - All right. So it's been about a minute. I'm gonna peek under Oh, that's a nice, - [Julia] Beautiful. - [Bridget] a tan color there. And I'm just using a I'm gonna show you another trick. Oh, gorgeous. - Mm. - All right. - Now when I was making they had donut sticks. These are just little chopsticks. I use them at home when I'm making donuts. They're great for flipping. So just about a minute All right, let's take a You see that beautiful second side. - [Julia] Oh, it's gorgeous. - All right, I'm gonna flip it over so you can see how gorgeous that is. That's a good color there. Let's get these out of the oil. These are going on a that we put over a rack, over a rimmed baking sheet. The paper towels do a all of that extra grease. And now I am gonna let the Again, we're looking for about 360 and we're gonna fry - [Julia] (indistinct) - [Bridget] What do you - [Julia] I think I really - I know, but they're with a beautiful glaze. Now, these will cool - They're safe to handle. - I know they're like - Oh, if I touch them, (both laughs) - I like the way you think. Now, for some of these, with a pretty classic glaze. And I've got here three and a quarter cups of confectioner sugar. I've got a half a cup of hot water. - Okay. the hot water just melts - [Julia] Oh, that's fun. - You don't get any of that graininess. And this is just a pinch of salt. We'll whisk this together. And you can see it's a - [Julia] It is. - That is absolutely by design. Gonna glaze four of these I'm just going to add the donut right in. And for the plain glaze, I like to get these back out. You can use your fingers But then I do this to make sure that every last little - Even the midriff. - That's exactly right. - You've definitely - We're gonna leave This is just set over rim - Oh my goodness! - All right. - [Julia] The smell of a Wow! - [Bridget] It's almost like caramel. - Yeah. - [Bridget] We just move this over there. You like this method though? - [Julia] I do. - We've got some gorgeous glazes here. We're gonna glaze four of - Mm. - And we've got a raspberry glaze here. - [Julia] Oh. - And we've got so many and even fillings on our website so people can go check that out. But what would you like to glaze first? - I'm gonna glaze chocolate. - All right. - All right, show me how to do it. - [Bridget] Pick 'em up, dip 'em halfway in. - [Julia] Okay. - [Bridget] Just to the midriff. - [Julia] Oh, I see. - [Bridget] Yeah. And then let some of Look at that. - [Julia] Haha, that was fun. - Expertly done. I'm gonna show you our Same thing. There we go. - [Julia] Oh, that is sweet. - Pretty in pink. If you would join me here. - [Julia] Mm-hmm. - [Bridget] Just a little sprinkle. I like to still be able to - [Julia] Oh, the sprinkles are fun. - These need to set up, that glaze needs to harden a little bit. It'll get nice and matte. And that's gonna take anywhere - Oh wow. - And then we can eat them. - Yay. - I've been waiting for years, in fact. You've been talking - [Bridget] I know. - Let's eat them. - [Julia] The hard choice - [Bridget] Now here's the good news, you don't have to choose one. - [Julia] I would just think of, I'm just gonna have one of each. - [Bridget] Classic glazed. - Oh my goodness. - [Bridget] Mm. - That is so fluffy inside. This is pillowy. - [Bridget] Mm. - [Julia] Let's see how this one is. - Mm. That tastes like a donut and a - Mm-hmm. - [Bridget] Grand finale, little sprinkle. - It tastes like fresh down and just lightly glazed That's incredible. - [Bridget] Yeah, this - Bridget, these donuts are It was, thank you. - You bet. So there you have it. If you want to make the make an enriched yeast and let it rise overnight in the fridge. Gently roll out the dough. Then cut out both donuts and donut holes. And fry them in hot oil From America's Test Kitchen, a killer recipe for yeast donuts. - These are just the best - (indistinct) amazing. We're gonna need a bigger plate. - Thanks for watching. America's Test Kitchen. What'd you think - Well, leave a comment and let us know which recipes or you can just say hello. - You can find links to in the video description - And don't forget to - See you later. - I'll see you later.