- We found a list of the 30 coolest roller - That's a lot. - This is the 30th coolest - Let's see what's so cool about it. - Oh! - That's a pretty big drop. - Oh all right, it's picking up steam. - I like how you like, get That's so cool. - The loop de loop. Oh the double loop! - Okay, double loop scoop. - That's rare to have a double loop. - As you can see, it's It appears to be going pretty fast. Go-kart track underneath it. I can see why this would be the 30th coolest rollercoaster ever. This is the 29th coolest - Are you a fan of wood coasters? - They scare me. I like the scare though, 'cause Oh my gosh! That's so steep for a wood coaster. - Yo, you can even hear Play back a thousand times. - Oh! - Oh my gosh. Like, the problem with wood Yeah, see it has that thing where they're like stacked like that. Like, what if it just caught on fire? - Sorry, I'm enjoying this. This feels like I'm there. You ever watched roller coasters in VR? - Yes, you came to my Oh! - That's- Why is this 29? Why is this not number-? - I can't wait to see what number one is. - I guess I'll have to - I guess you'll have to! - Whoa! - Number 28. So it starts off getting shot. - It sounds like we're in a jet engine. Yo, why can't we just have, instead of like having why can't they just build - Yeah. So like, instead of having to When I was a kid, why didn't from my house to school? - I would've been so - Come on, government. Do your job. - We should just run everything. - Yeah, honestly, why don't If I can run a Mr. Beast a Beast Gaming, a Beast Shorts, and a Beast Philanthropy channel, I can run the government. - I don't know about that. - You know what these roller - What? - That they should hit that - I don't know why, but - If you don't, I'll punch you. All right, this is number 27. Oh, they're really high. - Whoa! - Oh my gosh. I don't know if I would - That's too fast. - That guy's just holding up his hands. - Yo, wood coasters are incredible. - Oh my God. - Yeah, he put his hands down quick. - Oh my God! - Hands inside the vehicle sir! - Oh, upside down! - Hands inside the vehicle, Where are you going that wood - What in God's name am I watching? - Wow, that is tough. - Yo, pause. There's not a single thing Look at that. So there's about to be a giant dip and then they're gonna - Wow. - Oh, the dip of death. Oh no. - Yo, I would black out. - I would legit black out. Wait did you hear that guy's voice? He said, &quot;Oh.&quot; - Oh. - This is making me - How do they build stuff like this? I'm gonna call this the Oh my, what is this? The hyper tunnel of the Death Star? - This is Star Wars. - The rollercoaster's the beam. It's beaming towards the planet. - Oh, this is so cool. - You know, it's a good rollercoaster because I've yet to understand a single thing that's going on. Honestly, you might as well because you wouldn't be - There's no way you can know which way you're turning, You're just bouncing around. - Number 22. - You are going so fast on this one. - Yeah, play the sound of the video. Like, hear that wind? - I want to ride this so bad. - That's what she said. - Oh, the hangers. - You know when it's upside - I love upside down coasters. Whoever thought of that was very smart. - This is making me tear. - I would feel like my legs at every second. - It's so close to the ground. Yo, what if you're like, My gut tells me this is gonna be great! They do this just to They're like, &quot;let's just Let's have it make these loud, like sounds. - So it sounds like it's breaking. - Yeah. You hear just shaking. - What is that sound? - I don't know if I would ride this one. Yo, it's going so fast. - Oh, it's just gonna chill upside down. - Now you're just upside Wait, are you not upside down? I can't tell! Are we upside down or Are we now right side up? I think we're right side - We're gonna have to come for what way we are. - I just don't know. That was a good one because you didn't know if When you get off of it, you might actually walk on your hands. Okay, another upside down one. - It's gonna launch 'em up. There it goes, look at that. - Oh! - Yo! - What?! - Oh wait, we're going back. Oh, this is one of those - Windy dindy ones. - Yeah, they do the the old upsy, downsy. This is the one we shoulda rode back and forth. I'd be like, &quot;Yo, let - Yo, imagine riding - Ugh, no. - You think you could do it? - I couldn't ride it once. Oh, multiple camera angles. Just for the camera switch, this should have been higher on the list. - Hey, this guy's good at He knows what he's doing. - Y'all. Oh, what? What? What just happened? - Don't worry, we'll get - He's got us! Bravo to this man. - Oh! - This one you're legit hanging. I love this rollercoaster. This is so cool! - Oh my. Oh, wait. - It's so cool it's making Jimmy yawn. - Moving on to number 14. All right, we're in the top half of the greatest roller coasters on planet. - What?! Whoa! You can't just skip Who made this list? - Jimmy stop talking. - I just, All I was saying is in- Oh my, it's pretty colors! - Oh my gosh. - Whoa. - What?! - Why? Which way are you going? - Was that like a warm - Oh, well the rollercoaster - Oh, it just moves them down. Okay, now you're doing it backwards. - This is so cool. - All right, number 13. - Burger King foot lettuce. - That was a scream of terror. - That sounded like - Yo, play that back. Oh my God. And then the wind, they're going so fast and the wind just takes over the screams. Oh my gosh, this is the - Oh my God! I don't even Listen to the sound. - That sounds so funny. Oh! They're getting some speed. Look at how fast those bars are flying by. - Man, look at it. It's whipping it now. Oh, the double loop. Is there a triple loop? Oh, how about a cork screw? - I didn't know that - Mhm. - Thank you. - You're welcome. - All right, so this is the in the world. - This one is definitely It's a nice fast moving ride. - It takes up a lot of space. It's got a lot of cool stuff. It's on a beach. All that's cool. But in terms of epicness, - We've seen better. - Hopefully number nine - How about jet engines? - Mach speed. If they're not careful, - Why specifically Russia? - I don't know. - Holy crap, look at that! - That's terrifying. - What are you supposed to do with that? I bet that feels like you're - This is crazy. Yo, this makes those trees look tiny. - That's when you know you're up high, when the trees look like broccoli. - Oh! - Which way you going to go? There's so many different ways. This looks like McDonald's. - No joke, I've ridden this ride. This is at King's Dominion and this rollercoaster is known - When you go down, it's like your eyes are open but everything just starts - This is the last Like, I never want to ride after this one. - Uh oh, this looks Oh my gosh, there's a mountain! - Oh, oh. - This is the one that Watch this. This is the most terrifying And then just drops off. - Oh, that's brutal man. This is a good one. - This is good, I like this. - All right, number four. Who would've thought? Another drop. Oh my God, they didn't, - Yeah, they just dropped them from space. - Ah. - Little, good pause right there, I like that, it's great. - Oh, this one messes with me so hard. - Oh, keeping you upside down The people who made this really don't like the - All right, number three, top three. I don't know what I'm looking at. - It's- what? I don't understand what's going- - Wait, they're backwards. No, the whole, the seat It's on a gyroscope. I'm gonna vomit now. - Oh my- and look how high up he is. So you're flipping and turning as the- now he's backwards! - He was just first and now he's last. - This deserves the number three slot. This has creativity out the wazoo. - All I gotta say is - Wait, so the - It's getting you locked into position and they're just sitting - I would never trust a - It has to lock in. - Never. - And then you go underground! - That was cool. I mean, honestly, the music's kind of killing it for me. It's cool, scary, terrifying, fast, epic. But just because of the music, I would say it doesn't deserve number two. - What if we put this music in there? - All right, now it deserves number two. - Okay. - And the moment you've the coolest rollercoaster ever. - If you made it this far, Oh, look at that full parking lot. - Nice, that's how you - That's a big drop. - Big drop, underground. - Underground, like that. - We've seen that stuff before, but it's off to a good start. - Loop de loop into the - Still maintaining speed. - A little bit of a - Swirl, all right, another swirl. I don't know, man. I need to get impressed fast. I mean, it's got cool artwork but I don't know if that's I mean, I don't hear - It is very pretty, but - That ain't it, man. - I like pretty, but it - I'll be honest. Number three was better than number one. - Number three. I'll say it. Call the rollercoaster gods, I don't care. Shout out to all the people that recorded these Obviously, we're making but to the people who we appreciate you. Check them out, goodbye.