- [Instructor] In this talking about markets. We'll start from scratch and eventually build up to with many buyers and many sellers. And then, hey, why not, we'll by examining the market we've built to understand some basic arguments for why markets are good on their own and some arguments for why they sometimes need intervention. Okay, in the market we're going to build, the blue blobs will offer And the orange blobs will buy the rockets, assuming the price is right. A seller blob places a which we'll show with this vertical bar. This value comes from some combination of the cost of obtaining the and perhaps how much the seller would enjoy keeping the rocket for itself. It would gladly sell a rocket for a price above this value if it can, but at a price below this number, it would prefer just to keep the rocket. This blue bar effectively sets a minimum price for the rocket. And similarly, a buyer has a maximum price of what it would be willing to pay. It would love to pay less if possible, but it's just not worth it to pay more. If this buyer and sell get together, they could end up making a transaction for any price between and they'd both be pretty happy about it. To put some concrete numbers on this, let's say the buyer's maximum is $40 and the seller's minimum is $20. And then let's say they end up transacting in the middle at $30. The rocket is worth $40 to the buyer, but it only had to pay in the interaction by $10. The seller would have but it got $30, 10 more than it needed, so it was worthwhile for both of them. If you wanted to quantify you could say that they To toss some economics lingo It's a measure of how And it's worth pausing The concept of value is a but we just figured a way to quantify it by comparing possible alternatives. Anyway, these blobs have developed a wonderful business relationship, but now what happens if This buyer is going to have than the other buyer. Let's just say it's a little bit lower, so this second orange blob likes rockets, but a little bit less or maybe it has a bit less money, or maybe it has other things it would like to spend its money on. Whatever the reasons deep in its heart, it's willing to pay just a little bit less than the other buyer. And we're actually gonna to see what happens, so let's Each day the sellers will set up shop, offering a rocket for a certain price, and then in a randomly determined order, the buyers will approach the sellers and buy the rockets if they're The buyers and sellers but each day, they'll have that they expect to get. Just like real people, they For example, our original willing to pay up to $40, but it's gotten used to the price of $30, so if this seller suddenly demanded 35, the buyer wouldn't accept that price, at least not right away. The day continues until or until all the remaining to buy from all the remaining sellers. Though, at the end of the day, they are willing to accept if they have to, but only slightly. And then after the day ends, to reflect and adjust for the next day. They get more aggressive with their prices if they made a transaction, and they get a little bit less Essentially, just like real people, the blobs are trying to get adjusting their expectations as they go. Now that we have all the let's start by seeing what happens with just our original buyer and seller. And we'll keep track of the price limits, expected prices, and the Okay, so with just these They keep trying to get a better price, but since there's just the two of them, neither of them has an advantage and they keep setting the same But now, what if we add that second buyer with the lower maximum price? What do you expect to happen? The price of rockets Every single day, at doesn't get to take home a rocket, so that buyer ends up raising but the sellers almost with one of the buyers, raising their expected price. This continues until one of the buyer's absolute limits. And after that, it's basically back to the one-on-one situation. The fact that the two buyers are competing for the one rocket results And an important thing to notice here is that most of the surplus ends up going to the seller. When the buyers compete, All right, so what if where we add two more sellers, And just like with the buyers, the sellers vary in how much they fundamentally value the rockets. One of these two new sellers than the original seller. Maybe it's just not as efficient in making or obtaining the rockets. And the other sell will be the opposite with a lower price limit. Now that there's three what do you think will happen here? Okay, you might have seen this coming. Now that we have three there's always at least one so they end up lowering And the two buyers can so they also end up lowering their price. And eventually, the to where one of the sellers Here again, it's important to notice where the surplus is going. This time, the buyers When sellers compete, Now comes an interesting question. If we add one more buyer which has a lower maximum price than the other two, so we now have three of each, what do you expect to happen? And actually, before we hit go here, there's starting to kind so let's reorganize things a bit and show the buyers All right. So the interesting thing here is that even though there are three we end up in a situation where only two rockets are sold each day. This is because not every pair of buyers and sellers can make a deal. The buyer with the lowest price limit and the seller with could never be satisfied If we artificially set the price up high, all three sellers will be in the game, but only two or fewer buyers so the three sellers will keep competing until the price gets and then there will be two On the other hand, if all three buyers will then compete until the price gets too The price of the rockets will be balanced or in equilibrium at some price where the number of buyers and sellers willing to transact at To put this in economics language, it's the price where the quantity supplied is equal to the quantity demanded. This same phenomenon happens with lots and lots of buyers and sellers. By mixing randomly and based on their own experience, the blobs together end up settling on a stable price and quantity. And when we talk about large markets with thousands or millions it's more convenient to just draw curves to show the price limits The curve showing the is called the supply curve. The curve showing the is called the demand curve. An equilibrium price and quantity is where the two curves cross. Okay, so we've hit a milestone. We've built a market and combine to determine an Now that we have this market model, we can start to get down to which is arguing about for how we should organize This is an everlasting discussion and the specifics are different depending on which market or industry in the real world they're talking about, so I'm not about to try to make any sweeping conclusions here. But it is worth outlining at play so we don't have every time we wanna argue about economics. So what's good about this Well, first, as we already talked about, it organizes itself, but there's a deeper good thing about it, which we can see if we look at the amount of surplus generated. Since it might be a newish term, it's worth saying again that the surplus is a measure of worthwhile It turns out that at the the market generates the This won't be a but a way I intuitively make sense of this is by noticing that if the made a transaction, the would actually be negative. At that point, the buyer what the seller needs. The flip side of this The buyers and sellers that don't end up participating in the rocket market can go spend their time and since their participation is actually counterproductive. Bringing these arguments together, we have a system that results in the maximum possible surplus and determines the right This is what people when they This efficiency makes it all the more amazing and valuable that And just to throw one more term at you, you might refer to the When people say invisible hand, they're just referring to the fact that everything happens automatically. All right, so that's the basic argument that a free market is good on its own, now what about arguments Well, first, we can ask like the one we just made, of a given real world market. The answer here depends a lot on which market you're talking about, but there are some In general, for all those good things we said about markets to be true, there needs to be many buyers and sellers who can freely switch who they buy from and who they sell to and are they're not forced to go they can walk away if they want, and who have good information so they know when to switch or walk away. Some real markets are actually but others can be quite far. For the second kind of we can ask whether maximizing surplus, the way we defined it earlier, Remember that when we defined we were only comparing alternatives It's very possible that could decide to measure value in a way that looks at all of the blobs at once. Again, the exact arguments will depend on the market in in markets like food, a government might take some action to allow more buyers and/or and get some individual even if that means less total Without endorsing any I think it's reasonable to say that there could be some value in making sure that everyone can eat, earn money, and get the medical attention they need. But, hey, that's up to the blobs. So again, this was a bit of a whirlwind, and there is, of course, a but I hope I made the case that markets aren't They're a tool and just like any tool, they're the most helpful and when we're thoughtful So that's it for the main but I do want to briefly where the role of markets which is educational videos distributed freely over the internet. I don't claim to know how but by liking, subscribing, sharing, or by supporting directly on Patreon, you can send signals about which will, in turn, affect in the long run. In any case, thanks for