I have to work like when it slips out, like, because that is the old 50 Cent. I am new, the new 50. Like hip hop music, I believe And this is why so many out with the old in with the new, so many new people come and the whole new litter Because I think your adult experience for the first time. It's the college point, They out and having it And the music that is prominent at that point is like, the You know what I mean? And it shifts and it's when the new litter of And then it's like when you it's because you've diversified, you've done different things and you stayed in current. When I went towards like, where's my core audience? The original people that at that point were in success, they were in college studying in success, they have the on premise in the privacies of their home. So, there's a wine cellar, there's a bar. - It's different. at home instead of out in the nightlife. - So nostalgia there, a little bit. - You grow up and you You know what I'm saying? And then I think it's the point where they don't wanna be or partying where the kids are So it's a different tone to - I know with Sire Spirits, you're always active in the clubs. Like, you stay in the Is that deliberate so you can always have a feel for the pulse of it? - Absolutely, and with Sire Spirits, what I feel like is the approach, the right approach for it is spirits you consume where music is played. So I already fit that in such a big way that I'm cheating by being there. You know what I'm saying? It puts a different energy. There may not be on a regular night, things shift just my presence there. Because I'm there, the DJ So he plays that. You know what I mean? It's almost a tribute to, 'cause they're already grown on the music. They're already listening and loved it. Got things are tested and So that happens. And then it just sets the tone. Like, I think specifically when you create high-end And because I'm out and in the mix, like, living what the brand is, like when people see it in the room, when the parades come over and they're at their table, they want that type of energy Like, there's a difference, that definitely creates the separation because the other talent Like, you're not gonna Because of the music piece. He may have a strong in different areas and I like his tequila to drink it, I drink it myself. You know what I'm saying? But he's not gonna do that. So it shows you that, I'm showing you that I don't have to do it that way. You know what I mean? I could be home doing it, but I wanna see and feel - There's not a lot of crossover between say like pro wrestling - There's not 10 of them. Like, there's only one Rock. You know what I'm saying? Like, out of all of the there's only him. You know what I mean? And maybe Randy's Couture - Oh, right. - And the in the Expendables. Like, I worked with him just - So what was that experience like for you being involved in to say, the first films you were doing? - Well, it's exciting, man, 'cause I'm in a film with my action stars. These guys are, you know what I'm saying? Like, these are my guys. Like, I'm looking like, &quot;Oh, shit.&quot; We got Jason Statham, (50 Cent laughing) - That's the joke. But Sly's always gonna Like that Rocky, all of that. - Right. If he dies, he dies. Dolph Lundgren. Like, there's certain shit that is never gonna leave my mind. Like, that's gonna be, that like, for a one-liner in a film? It's a serious one-liner, you know. And there's, like, even now, and people use 'em at different points. You know what I mean? - There's a lot of memes (50 Cent laughs) You actually are behind I don't know, there's with you Fif, you know. And I mean, it's kind of like - The king piece, like, I think of the celebration, You know what I mean? So it easily matches with, this is why I even committed and relationships with because it just makes sense. It organically makes sense to me. You know? I watch major companies make mistakes. Like, Hennessy makes the deal with the NBA and not Tillman himself. You see what I'm saying? And it changes it. Like, for a fact, my deals I have relationships with them. You see what I'm saying? Theirs is just with the logo, the NBA. - The first time we spoke, you told me you always go straight to the source. - That's right, and probably weaken your position. - You're gonna try and... - Look, if I'm under you and the guy comes to me, I want to get it Make it for the best possible deal and come to you to impress Right? Meanwhile, if I just came straight to you and discussed, talked to and you was like, let's that part we would've went through. You know what I mean? Like, just for me, if you or the guy under the guy, then you just- - The guy who signs the front of the check instead of the back. - That's right. - You were saying before about and I've seen you go to the for the appearances. And like, you also said, with the youth culture and music. But for you, I almost feel like a big part of your relevance, your staying power just across all these different spaces is you're almost giving a blueprint on how to do what goes - Look, when we released the I would be in a Best Buy or It's the same, it's a different product. It's the same approach marketing-wise. And I was open to doing it when you see me in the liquor stores because of that. 'Cause I'd done it before. The demo I said that my core audience, which is at home watching television, it's easier for them to come than to come see me in a nightclub. Their kids are there at the nightclub. So they'd rather, when &quot;Yo, I'm gonna go and see 'em there &quot;instead of going to see 'em &quot;where you guys are partying &quot;and it's uncomfortable for me.&quot; 'Cause I'm looking like am I stalking you to make sure you're doing the right thing? Or am I here to see you? - So the parents are the kids are seeing you. - In nightlife. - Right. - So why do you think that, what's the value for you and you doing it independently? 'Cause we've seen headlines all the time certain names, lawsuits that they're... - Look at this, look, when that happens, when they see momentum try to put a little bit of And this is in any category that happens. You know what I'm saying? And when you just, the brand is, the company's a young company, but these companies spend towards African American males. And when you are a African it feels like it could Like, they're spending a lot of financial investment and to target to different demographics. So when that tab is that big, when things start to, they they all go. And you know, look, for me, since the success of my Just legal fees. All right, so like when and stuff like that, I'd be or what get rich is when giving it to lawyers, so I write that off as the price of business. And then when we get to the because I have a way of posturing myself. Like, I'll say something I'll say, I don't give a fuck, man. You understand? - And they'll look and go, &quot;Oh, shit.&quot; And he goes, he doesn't care at all about what you're saying and keep going. We're gonna have fun doing that then if this is what you wanna do. And it just makes better than to be fighting each other. You see what I'm saying? Like, these companies are a lot further, it's a lot longer since they own them. Like, I've made how for Hennessy in music. - And that goes way back. - Yeah, when I'm seeing people drinking around me all the time. Like, in my experience, I'm a lightweight. I'm a bantamweight, even, the of the world when it comes to liquor. I don't, not a an experienced drinker. Let's say an experienced who's drunk somewhere right now. It's kind of early. It's kind of early in the day. - It's somebody somewhere. (50 Cent chuckles) Somebody somewhere. - Already. - You know what I mean? And for like overall, I look I named the company Sire Spirits. My youngest son named is Sire. You know, I look forward for something for him to And when you do approach because it's not like it has It is serving its purpose You know, so the size of when he's running by that time 'cause that's the initial idea. When we talk about how long when they spend a lot of money that it would be fubu in this case, like, it there's, I think, an advantage and a disadvantage when you harp on that. This is why you haven't heard me mention that the entire time, it's You know, and it is I don't do it for one group of people. I do it for the masses Like, you know, we got people they disagree on everything. Like, they disagree on religion, right? They disagree in politics, or Democrats in the way, - In everything. I get caught in the mix. I don't have political Like, when I say it's what I'm thinking when I see this. It's not for anyone to sway I'm just putting that there 'cause it's what I think about it, right? And they'll wanna contact me, following me saying something on social media. And I don't accept it at that point because that's not what I'm doing. That's not my goal, that's You know what I mean? And they'll run with it. They'll put me on the or put me in the newspaper based on it. And I'm fine with that part. I'm just not gonna pursue You know, like, there's so much Look, when I'm creating the diversity's important in it. But it's a story I wanted to tell, right? And when I say the idea was as a backdrop thing, there's somebody who represents everybody So I said, &quot;Oh, this is perfect.&quot; - It wasn't a story written It was a story that spoke to you that, just so happened and there's diversity. - And I was knowing I could through the television. - Right. - You see what I'm saying? To kinda reactivate 'em or re-excite them with something that I'm creating that way. And then that's why it was important that I matched the music in it. The theme song. It's very rare that no one's on tour performing the theme song - Right, right. - You know what I'm saying? Like, I'm the only one - That's a good point, yeah. - You know, and it's just to find interest in different areas and explore different things. And then there's points like, early on that not gonna provide an opportunity for you to just work in television. Like, you have to work to to be taken seriously in television. Like, even the big actors, when they're acting in the show, but they're not where the hits They don't have the franchise that we can point out right now. There's no other one for us to look at. So that would be a clear accomplishment by being able to do that Let them just run without, you know? 'Cause the idea is not to create vehicles for myself to perform in, to help change and shape culture. You know what I mean? Like, I'll become the gateway, that artists from hip hop to make or to participate in working on those kind of projects. - You know, that's a because I feel like you've or an indirect mentor to so many- - A lot of artists. - And it is only the guys that I actually, I really liked them. - DaBaby is is an obvious one. - Yeah, you know what? Look, when you see, I kind of Like, Pop Smoke was like that. Like, and you know, they've even made some of And I'm going, &quot;Oh, shit.&quot; I know why you made the mistake, bro. You understand? And it's just coming outta the environment and the difference in peer group. Like, if you look at they're making a mistake right now and not being penalized for it because they're not And they need someone that can tell 'em they can 'Cause their storm is too much Like, they don't have artist Like, you know, you you had a publicist, and that's what was happening at the time. With that thing was happening with DaBaby, there was no one there. He didn't even have So there was no possible way to maneuver. What he had was a structure to be successful from an And those things were working great. He didn't have everything or someone that's in the business publicly would have around him. And that's why the response Your first apology would've So it would've died down a lot faster with the right people. You know, you got crisis management people and things like that. He just didn't even know that And they just pick, nobody and notifies you that you - How did you know from the start that you should always Like, I've seen stories of you, what was this one story? You were out at a bar, and they were surprised to see you had some Navy Seal kind of - Oh yeah. (Brian and 50 Cent chuckling) And I imagine this was like a long time ago, we're talking- - You know what happens? I come from like, a place Don't get ready, you gotta be ready. And I would layer things around me to prepare for different - Contingency plans. - Yes, and then like where you go, when they would run into it, they'd go, like, this is, wait, it's This is the other stuff, right? And I went through the... I had the same kind of Level six, you know, run - And you had those a long time ago. - Long time ago. Those was '03, '02. They came in and then just had 'em. Had 'em since then, like I've got 'em. And look, it becomes because of my temperament shift. You know, a lot of it is me. You know what I mean? I'll look, I'll see something and I'll go if there's But that temperament is but if it is, let's let it be that. Because I kind had all the Eventually, you'll look and you go, we are not even after the same things. Like, we don't have the same goals. And the competitive side of hip hop that when they're just trying to get in, like they'll look and say, I'll establish myself by saying this 'cause this person is notable. You know how many times and I look at it and go Like in that interview about what you're doing you can stop anything that I'm doing. - Why do you think that is? Like, how come there seems you'll just get mentioned in or your intentions will get spun around. Like, where do you think that comes from? - They'll do a whole hour interview. And then the only thing he said this about 50 Cent on YouTube. 'Cause it'll give more hits And then they'll write 500 'cause the other guys will take it and switch it around and do it. And it is different because obviously people click it, and they're entertain by it. And I'm all right with it. Like, I just look at it and I understand that they're utilizing that because there's no, there's no issue. Like, you know, when you get into... I just say, if it's really to handle it, then why if there's nothing there? You know, like, there's Like, when I said that our coach is out with the old and in with the new? Those people are already But what they say in the some relevance if you're talking about someone who's current. And there's not much they can say about the new artist because I guess it's a part of if you in it long enough, you know? - So it seems like I'm trying to extrapolate these different, almost like a modernized 50th law I'm trying to get outta here, right? So, you know, mentorship a Having a readiness for anything. - Yeah, yeah. You can't forget where you come from. 'Cause if you do, you vulnerable to someone You see what I'm saying? And the other things that you point out, like, when we do, like we was talking about the partnerships they provide an ability for me to connect with what they've built. Like, they have a different relationship with enough of the community And I can kind of step into those programs and be a part of the philanthropy and part of the things and proven and working. I just don't want to commit my time to something that is not working. You know what I mean? Once I bypass a lot of stuff that isn't by having these relationships and in different territories now. So there's the Sacramento Kings or in Houston, I have the whole Houston, I have the, well, yeah, the Astros. I got the Rockets and the Texans. - And then the hockey team? - Yeah, well, hockey- - Super Bowl. Or not Super Bowl, I'm - That was in Vegas, - Stanley Cup. And then you got two of two teams. One, it matched exactly So it was such a organic fit at that point, that it was Look, my choices of who as far as professional teams would work, even if it was being utilized on Fandom. If it was just a gambling type just betting on who I Because I'm looking at before we make the decision to commit to being a part of the project. - And this is why you'll go So you can get to know the person. - And also where they're You see what I'm saying? When you got, look Houston, okay? I don't say nothing now, it's in the building phase. It's gonna build itself back up to a point where it's something to watch. Like, it's really exciting. Sacramento's just like now to see them in the playoffs and Like I got a chance to go and see them and Steph Curry at the same time. You know, like, and these guys are like, they are a different kind of You know what I'm saying? So it was like the connection it's easy, it's what they had to do to take their mind off that many times that they can shoot it from anywhere on that court You know what I mean? It's the disciplines that so they understand the metaphors, try to treadmill with no music. See how long you do that. Because you'll be in your head so much and you hear yourself breathing, you ain't gonna do it as When you can put the music on and just go, it takes your mind off of it. You can do the work a lot easier. You know what I mean? And that is a part of the connection. And then a lot of the talent on the highest level They weren't such great So they identify with the things that are being said in the music and connect in that way, you know. But it makes it a lot the professional teams and - There's that crossover. It just all seems organic. And for all the partnerships you do or the brands that you do or with television, another you don't just stop at the surface level. Like, you'll grow up and then you'll also build those deep roots. - Look, as far as the in television, they'll look and go, &quot;He likes to announce everything.&quot; Yes, because the soon to my portfolio as a I become the biggest television producer 'cause I'm well known around the world. You couldn't pick these So they can't sway the audience to watch what they're putting out next. Like, they just gotta in marketing of the networks to do it. They can't talk directly. I reach about a hundred million I don't need Dateline or these publications to do anything but notify business insiders that they need to bring me the idea. So other production and say let's run this across because we think it might be And it connects and it's how I get to 30 television shows in a faster timeframe that they've seen anything else go at that point. And then when I said I and that the concept to place people from not, into areas that don't like, they're gonna have a They hot as hell right And it won't mean that they on a list of people that You see what I'm saying? And I know that that person means more to the project at that particular point. So I actually get 'em and that may allow them to 'Cause even if they did everything every other artist we know done and burn out on that at some point, if they've worked in on the film and television stuff, that there's a second career. Every athlete you see and playing football, they 'Cause they're gonna be there. They're gonna make a lot of But those, football's even shorter. Like they, it may make but you get hurt, it's a wrap. You know what I'm saying? Then what's next? Everybody gotta think about those things like, how you transition, like, where you wanna land. - Is this why you've for most of the things that you do? So you have that stability there versus I guess just for resources or what have you? Better for you to just go build those relationships yourself? - Look, I've had an opportunity to buy a lotta shit that didn't matter. It doesn't matter, right? Like, at points, like in your head, that really nice And then when you get over it, you need to move to something that you can be comfortable But you do need to have the experience. You see what I'm saying? Like, it's living. Bro, when we look good, we you took to put on to pick So yeah, you should do it. And get it and feel good that day 'cause you know you look good. It's 'cause the time is the most expensive thing we spend, bro. And we can't get it back. We're getting older, life You see shit happening. People are, it's like we on 10 out here, like, it's going up to a new level. And the things of value that were taught even on the ground level, in the roughest areas had a So it was about, they were that hard because they wanted to make it. Now I see the, it's happening so that there's no aspiration to make it. There's more they wanna mean something and what will make them mean something in the environment is if they can connect to the violence that's that will immediately affect you. Like you see the young boys and say, &quot;You ain't got no bodies.&quot; - Yeah. - See now if he's around what does that do to his aura? It makes him someone of because he might be You know what I'm saying? So you gotta pay attention to him. You gotta at least have to And this is why they go in because I'm sitting myself, I go, &quot;What the, what are you doing?&quot; - Yeah. - Like, what is it? Like, I'll go, &quot;Nah, we rock with them &quot;while them are my ops.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;Why, what happened?&quot; Nah, nah. They think I'm trying to ask. I'm not trying to resolve it. I don't care. If you got an issue but what is the issue? - Right. - You see what I'm saying? And I'm going, when they can't it's because that was filtered. They were told this is that they told 'em, I It just was that part was given to them. They don't know, they can't Like, and from there And then when you start, once this sits around long enough, if that's because it is happening - It seems like it's, it seems like just a absence You know, for you, when you &quot;Get Rich Or Die Trying&quot;, of like, I'm here and just There was that versus now op is the op and that's it. The reason doesn't matter. - My first album title And then you go from that when you... You go through it becomes get rich or die trying. But it is very consistent. You see what I'm saying? And it's because I come they all wanted to make it. That's what made it make sense to participate and not have it. When you are around and you're like, &quot;I ain't got nothing,&quot; and you're going, &quot;I wanna That's my goal too. And then you could kind of into the environment because And the other stuff is and things with people. We have people that are And so those things, their value is gonna, they're gonna make their value in that. And even the success, when coming outta that environment, around him that he feels Because you know that to these different neighborhoods that it may be something there. But he knows that this person right here will do it regardless of what. So they bring that person. And without acknowledging it, that person needs them for them to need them to be around. You know what I mean? So you just brought what you had in the environment with you. That is what is gonna So I would look, so a when I'm talking to 'em, when I say that to 'em, they go, &quot;So he's saying it's going to Yeah, if you don't adjust, the information and internalize it and really make the right you are, it is limited time on that. Opportunities for you to will come from the people And it's just the way they were brought into that circle of things as it took off. 'Cause they don't really have, why would you need 'em? They need you to have a to be there so they can... - That's how they add their value. That's how they stay on the payroll. Hmm. - You know, and it's, that goes on. And these are things that Like, I don't care who it is, when they're picking someone Like, they may not even Like, they just took this paid 'em, did they thing, and put it on iTunes and this, and it's working. The song is working they want me to perform at So my auntie's going to get the first half and she gonna get the 'cause he knows she's not And that might work until because auntie, you know how it is doing business with your family. You might not want to do that. - Right. But- - But they'll pick anybody at that point because If you look around, there's no groups. - Right. - In hip hop, the only thing, what Migos? That's it? Yeah, that's because there's no... Look, if it's artist development, some of these guys would - Right. - The contrast of the two of 'em next to each other, it'll be that version of music repeating itself. But there's, you know, that's going on in hip hop, the small parts, the when they're growing and 'Cause like, like the buzz. I'm not following each But I do miss more, like the R&amp;B music. Where's that at? Like, I don't see that at all. - It's all taken. You told me this once before too, that it's almost getting eroded away. And now, you know, you have He's kind of doing- - The only one that you can get that from. - Right. That's what it would in this period. - Versus, I mean, you contrast that with the music from, you know, the '70s, the groups were so prominent, the soul. And even before that, Temptations, and all sorts of these groups. - But because there's no and making them be a group, They're all separately to do something instead of being flown in to put to him with him that's going to really mean something. - Do you think the, like or the Beyonces whose origins - They spouted, yeah. - Right. Do you think that's influenced the erosion of the groups at all, too? - I think that was natural. I think always there's that could creatively... Look, both of them were You see what I'm saying? So it was just a creative adjustment. And the support that she would receive or he would receive would still be there. Because if they decide to make that, like when you seen the new tour, how much production value - Oh, I didn't see - It's serious, it's really good. Like there's a different, you don't miss the two other females being Like, it feels like it's just hit music. Like, 'cause I, look, whenever you. They start one way, like So like, I was watching not by choice, it was just in your face. Like, it was in the building. Like, so it was right there. And then with Destiny's Child yeah, it's a group, it's a thing. And then when she blossoms out of it, it turns into something Like, you can't really contest it. It is what it is, you know. And then Justin is, well 'cause they, look, you got Even if they didn't, if they weren't as visibly talented in that way, they could have done than like, on the other and been in culture where So I mean, it is an adjustment. Like a lotta times when artists exactly the way they want or they go, &quot;It was the label.&quot; You know, like that is the answer. So for me, what I get a lot of times is because I'm an individual that they can look at as the label, it was 50 instead of the label. Like, you know what I'm saying? But that's the same thing. It's really when the what they need to sustain and being active in different ways. And then when their brand dwindles away or dies down based on that, &quot;Oh, it was the label.&quot; But I'm the label by - I can't think of any example with you where it's almost like versus with you, it appears like your default mode has been ownership. No matter what's happened to &quot;Okay, this is on me.&quot; - And look, my interest to do what I wanna do creatively. Look, there's no African in film and television that clear green light ability. You could just say here for that to go. So when you look at producing It's not enough for me. When I got one, I'm cringing Like, I'm even. Look, while &quot;Power&quot; is working by itself, I go do &quot;The Oath&quot; on Sony Crackle. Right? Just to have something else. And this one was, you can see it online but I'm like, no, I gotta And when I do that, I produced &quot;The Oath&quot; at like a Tyler Perry price point. It wasn't like a premium a million dollars a episode type of thing. And it's just 'cause I So if not, you were one hit wonder. You know how many one hit wonders we got in music culture? I'm scared of that shit. You got one hit? I'm like, &quot;Oh no, I got,&quot; Or I got one and that's it. You know what I mean? And I went through that and it was the highest rated So you go, &quot;Power&quot; is happening here, the highest radio show on Sony. They go, &quot;Okay, now this is real.&quot; It's gonna be a lot more from him. Not just that one effort. You know what I'm saying? And it's because look, the more than one ho is 'cause one ho is so close to no hoes. (Brian chuckling) Even in that world, bro, because it would be you left with nothing because the police picked - Now you're outta business. Now you're stuck. - You're outta business (50 Cent and Brian laughing) - It seems like there's where you have to, I guess you to yourself in a way, right? - It's always, well for like I'm proving it to myself, I've already, I'm kind of crazy like that. I could convince myself and I'm doing it. And once it's in my head that way I can really embrace how really What are gonna be in front of me? What's gonna be difficult And what do I do about So I can start assessing that. Because once I say I'm And then like when you say the to me in the very beginning, You see what I'm saying? So it's like every car, every item that I could pick, house. You want a beach house? You want a house that's Like, you know what I mean, Like, I did all that. So when you have these you can have a 55,000 square foot, 37 bathrooms, six kitchens and you gonna still sleep on one bed. A dozen entertainment places. So if you're not in that that many people around for you to entertain them, then you're not good. Look, when I look at real estate, I look at the more you spend on the property, what you get is your entrance. It's supposed to be so amazing that it's breathtaking, right? But the rooms, if the rooms you're not gonna like the house. You're gonna get the when you get to the rooms. So if you, when you look down and you don't wanna go down there 'cause it's like down the in your regular life, like before, before any of this and you go, &quot;Are you on the intercom?&quot; You calling people on intercom Like, these are the real things, the adjustments that shit is happening. And I'm looking and I'm like, &quot;Yo, why did I buy this shit?&quot; - It sounds like an - Not exactly. - This is real life, bro. Like, I'm looking going, &quot;to buy this shit?&quot; (Brian chuckling) And I'm like, it doesn't matter. And then I'm like, rather go into a condo than the big house at the Look, if I had Nick Cannon's then you could put them Everybody's here. It would mean putting everybody together then it would make sense. But I didn't, I'm not going I don't want the responsibility that you gotta deal with emotionally. Especially after they don't - Mm. - You know what I mean? Like, that's too much to kinda... I don't know what the fuck (Brian chuckling) You know what I mean? Like, this shit is just different. Right? See look, I have to work like when it slips out, like, because that is the old 50 Cent. I am new, the new 50. Yeah, you know, I owed him that 'cause he said something about me. He said I was, what'd he say? He said one of his little (Brian laughing) - What else? What are some other examples like the house that you found? That you realized as the why did I want this or why am I here? - Yeah, like a yacht, right? A yacht to me, when I look in the water on a day when you But look, the Final Lap I'm gonna be off moving around so much that the yacht turns into a hole. It turns into a hole in the water that you just could keep throwing money in because you don't even And it's just sitting there to look like it's damaged or weathered after it's been in the water So I gotta do maintenance that was floating around it. And it's just gonna create an expense that if you didn't have the that wouldn't make sense. Like with, all of that if I decide I'm not gonna be on a bus, I'm gonna fly private everywhere I go. If it makes less wear tear on me because I'm going to 93 yeah, I don't care about the expense. When you look at the bill, at what you spent and the IRS is there 'cause boy oh boy, I'd like to be him just for a little while. Uncle Sam? Let me be him for a couple days. 'Cause you know how I be saying - Yep. - He want his at 12 o'clock sharp. (Brian laughing) But the big dogs are here. Who you looking for the big ones? Like yeah, you at 12 o'clock So, you know, and they that live in the gray area, you know. They got their own, the IRS So they're there to argue to just give them the money. So when I said that gray area is because right and wrong doesn't matter it's what can you prove the right way within the system? 'Cause you can get a judge to look and have their own personal judgment. You can't block yourself We got a system, it's not a bad system, it's just it works as good as the people that we have involved with it. You know? So when we don't have it doesn't work well for law enforcement, for district attorney's office. No matter which layer of this is America, baby, they follow. Look, I travel everywhere in the world because I have success When you win here, you win the world. They follow us. Dubai is Las Vegas. They made that. What we look at when you see that, that's there because of Las Vegas. Now the Rico and conspiracy charges that these boys are catching because of the people that decided to go to Las Vegas, the mafia. But to think when you would travel one of the most prestigious the Bible would be on the list of it and that concept is following - Hm. You think there's problems with the institutions here in America? Maybe that's why things The foundation? - Yes, yes, but there's again, - Right. - Blame it on, you know, and how they feel personally about things. Like, you know, I just without good people. So you can do the right You can, you know, like it could just be the only thing anyone could And the lawyers would be outside waiting when they know that you in front of some shit. And you was like, he was right there, &quot;Listen, here's my card. &quot;Just call me.&quot; Do it on a contingency so you're because the person That's the way it's set up, bro. Like, you know what I mean? There's a things that you can remove yourself from it. Like, look the old superstar model, right? Like M, I'm gonna get M outta the house, look for my birthday, Dre, Jimmy, Paul. Everybody came see me in And it's great. And I get on the phone with him You know what I'm saying, 'cause he's the last piece to that puzzle. But we just got to, we are having a conversation. Yo, we gotta get him So why y'all didn't bring him? Like, you know what I mean? Like, they coulda got him. Like, now I've become one of those people that they'll go, &quot;If you would've called, &quot;it may have happened.&quot; Like, you know what I'm saying? And it's only 'cause of consistency. You know, like him, what he did for me, you can't replay that. You know what I'm saying? Like, people, they don't understand it. Like, I always knew... Like, my head didn't get big with momentum because of me and Em's relationship. When I'm doing 13 million records, I'm the biggest thing in hip that you could directly compared to me. But he's doing 23 million records on &quot;The Marshall Mathers LP&quot;. So I know that there's room for growth. And I traveled and I &quot;The Marshall Mathers LP&quot; plaque. It was in our business manager's office. I only trust those people with my money because they had Em's money. And we looked and it had the And had all of these flags. When I see I want that. And that's why I tour it. And then when you see me say the final lap and it says 90 dates for the tour, it's because I've done the footwork because I wanted the flags - Mm. - You see what I'm saying? Like, Em didn't, he didn't tour as much because he said he and come back and Hailie be grown. And it's real. Like, you could get into the regimen. You're doing it and you You didn't even know it's a start and stop type of thing, start. And then you look and you turn around and your baby is grown, bro. Like, you got, what the fuck did I do? Like, you know, and you a lot of moments and things. And he was conscious of And he got a lot of money. Em sold over 120 million records, bro. You don't do shit after you Take your ass somewhere and go sit down. If you say, look, go to the critique things and say, &quot;I or, &quot;I could make this,&quot; and that, he gonna do that forever, like that. 'Cause the comfort, I think they made him uncomfortable. It is, like, if you're not prepared, like, I'm over, over prepared. I don't want to be there because I don't have the information or I didn't, I don't Me and De Niro, Robert I had to go sit with him. I went and met with in New York City by Central Park. I went to go see him because that it was a movie project we were looking to do together. When they told him that I would do it, he was like, it went to meet with me to make sure that I in the crap and the project. Because you didn't want to of DMX situations with the motherfucker that locked himself in the trailer. And he's got other stuff going on because you don't know the lines. You don't know what you're Like, you know what I'm saying? And that was one of the after he, like, we met, we talked, then and it created a relationship let's say it was, it was better because we interacted on that. At that point, it was just me and him. And then we didn't end up making the film, but the next thing that came So it was him and Al And they actually were performing 'Cause they did &quot;Heat&quot;. It was in &quot;Heat&quot;, but it was one scene. This one they worked on and stuff like that. So it was great to have both And then the, it also was like, why does he keep talking to him? Like, &quot;Why does he keep And then it makes, because he already, we on things, you know, prior to that. - Do you think he was just to kind of see, like? - Yeah, 'cause it wouldn't, to a project with someone that Like, you'd be saying you got Like, what am I doing here? Like, you know what I'm saying? It would be, that meeting was about him kind of protecting what he worked for, like, his legacy; he's When the project was done, I with Avi Lerner because When we got to France, like to Paris, it was time to do the publicity for it. And I remember that they was going, &quot;Well, what is he doing?&quot; Because a lot of times they Their name will be enough the stamp and it'll do well regardless. Like, a lot of the films, but Avi Lerner, that they sell the films prior to us watching them. Like, those international territories, they're getting the money from that. And then they may select Lionsgate or one of the studios So, when you have brands it is easy to sell. You know what you're gonna get for the, how you recouping the When we was in Paris and they didn't, they kind of went and got Like, that wouldn't do more than the other one, And they didn't realize how many more outlets because of the music culture and everything else that was there. Like think about the music everything that covers just music that wouldn't be covering the film. Because they had the and then when they saw from music, they was like, goddamn. Like it made Avi, he was like my guy. You know what I mean, 'cause it just, and it's why the &quot;Expendables 4&quot; now. See how it goes full circle? Avi financed &quot;Expendables 4&quot; and it's why the call is made now for me to be a part of the project and participate with this project now. So like my relationships Like, when I started this piece, I'm talking about me but it falls full circle to everything. Like, when I interact with people and they are good people, Like, it is no reason not to. You know what I mean? - With your tour, 600,000 I think it was? - Yeah, the first seven days. - How do you feel that you're maintaining this influence still globally? - Well I think the- - Because there's so many You have the one hit wonder category and then you have the local relevance and then kind of sorta national relevance. But you are like a global This is a part of that whole goat debate that goes around and why because everyone says, &quot;Well, nobody's international like 50 is.&quot; - Yeah, yeah. You know what's crazy is the blessing is when the &quot;Get Rich or 13 million records, that like everywhere, so there was no place that I wasn't having my And then I came back, sold and then I come back and the from &quot;Curtis&quot; and &quot;Beg for Mercy&quot; all those different things, the albums, the G-Unit records, all of that. So there was always building something in those markets 'cause I've been there. Like, we talking about not their first speaking Like, they are having a and learning English knowing the sounds of the music. Like, even if they don't they can say it the way the song goes. Right? When you there to touch Look at this. The rougher side of their experience. We think we got it hard here. It's not hard here. You see how people fight They want to be here, bro. You see what I'm saying? Like if you going look, when you get into those other territories, their poverty is more extreme than ours. You see what I'm saying? And we got some people that They're more comfortable in a tent with nothing on their schedule every day. Some of 'em make the and feel no pressure to make it or no pressure to do anything. You know what I mean? And that's just, I can't Like, you know, my thought from them that I can't relate to it. But it's real. Like, some of 'em just made You would look and think in It's different when you're not, when they, because it's third world countries, bro. Like, look at Brazil, it's popping. You get torn out there. You go to certain areas, you go, &quot;What the fuck is going on?&quot; Like, this is a different level of poverty than what we, so what And you look at that and and you are able to be it's just amazing. Music is magic. But when we talked about and disagreements with and even their political they still, all those people who disagree will enjoy themselves when They will take a break from that shit to have a good time right then. Because it's not about It's about just enjoying yourself. And this is why I try not to over involve myself in politics. Or I may have my opinion, say my opinion, but I'm not answering. You would not believe after once they abuse it 'cause And they wasn't covering they're covered when I - Right. - You know what I mean, 'cause they're going, &quot;What Like, what? I know what's there. - Right. - You know what I mean? Like, it is gonna turn we're going to be getting your toothpaste and everything else. 'Cause then if they're making it where the smaller theft is The person that's getting in front of the store going, &quot;Yo, give me the $15, I go &quot;Tell me what you want,&quot; All this stuff is free. And you give 'em $15 and you get 'em $30 worth of shit, and you just go home. Why would that not happen, why You see what I'm saying? Like if you, these laws, it just doesn't make sense to me that you- - That's happening in - When you grew up, the under make me have a what would happen under the scenario. And I look and go, &quot;Nah.&quot; And they're gonna do and it becomes easier to do something that is not within the law. Until you see them do more extreme things. This is why you see even in the towns that they tried it in in violent crimes and everything. But I don't have political aspirations. I don't wanna have the conversation. - No? (Brian and 50 Cent laughing) - Gonna be plastered everywhere. - Yeah, everywhere. - I think the music plays a big part, but I think it's also Because what's really interesting because people know that you- - The experience, right. - Right, the experience is there. - As you come from it. - Because people don't even it seems, in a lot of ways. But everyone knows- - That's it. (Brian and 50 Cent laughing) - Everyone knows 50's 50 and - Yeah, and you going, if there's a... I wouldn't want it to because it's the way that... Look, the hip hop music, that are damaged, right? You'll see things re-enter or And they say if the person's been battered or bumped around through their experience, it becomes more exciting to It sounds perfect on the And when they connect, and you know that all of the damage is there, it's exciting to watch, bro. Like, it's exciting to watch. And then it's very rare that connect, that don't have a backdrop. Like, where's the really wealthy kids creating hip hop music? There are, and the number ones are in the higher end of the chart. That doesn't happen. They usually have some sort of story or some sort of experiences that they could put into the music. You know what I mean? I mean, I think it's a cool part of it, but it's also, it jades people's at points and shit, helps shape a new idea of how things should be, like, you know. And you look, now we got so so many new females in hip hop probably the most I've seen ever, like, from the, we just hit But this is probably the maximum amount of female artists at one time. So what you get is, how is it being in a male dominant industry and being like one of the only females? And they go, well it, you and it is something to focus on. And then other women come and they go, &quot;Bitch, get outta here.&quot; (50 Cent chuckling) Because when the other women It becomes the battle. It becomes what hip hop culture is. You see what I'm saying? But I watched the narrative shift 'cause it wasn't a lot at one - Yeah. It's like one record here, one So it's like five new female artists, even when they connecting easier than the male talent, because people... I hear amazing things from artists, writers that doing things. And then I look at 'em and Is what he's saying, is 'Cause that's really the only question is if he's really who he's Because it is good. And then a lot of it is not real. 'cause they're just but it's not really real. But for the females, we because a lot of the times the it is what she was willing to say. - Hmm. - It says that this is okay by way, by her in presentation 'cause the things that they're putting in the music are, it is sexual, a lot of it. Outta those new female that just popped up, it's very rare that you see songs or that don't have sexual references to them. And the idea itself is sexual. You know, it's a different - It's probably really this like, the generational Like the Nicki Minaj with the Ice Spice or the Gorilla and the Cardi B, you know, like all these different, that's amazing. - I love Nicki, I love Nick. She's from Queens. - Yeah. - Her damage comes from the same place. (50 Cent and Brian laughing) She comes from the same... Look, this is where it gets because I look like when or a disagreement, I think That's girls' business 'cause they get, that can happen fast Like, they'll get into some and then they can resolve Like, men will have a than they will when they decide to, right? But I don't hold those that I will hold the guys who have issues. It's really interesting to when they get in the competitive mode that they may bring greater Look, when you don't have you need to make that person. It'll help you work when you're tired. You know what I mean? Like, point to someone who &quot;All right, that's what You don't gotta notice him, It's more sophisticated Right. But you know he's a great photographer or you know he's good at what And it makes you push and find something that, you know, cinematographers different things there that you wanna make something great. Like, now you like pfft. I should've light a fire under you. You see something new come &quot;Oh, he dropped out. &quot;Wait till you see what, - It's like Jordan always, the last dance, he took it personal. - This is what made him great, bro. You see what I'm saying? Look, when something's going on in him that the rest of them don't have, like, they're playing the game. He, &quot;I gotta win.&quot; He's saying I have to win this ring. And who, these guys are supposed to? (50 Cent and Brian laugh) Yeah, I've seen it. Look, it's almost, I think it feels, it could be mistaken for a gangster energy that when a person's and then it's like, whenever they're ruthless. Call that the guy that's in the neighborhood, call that's giving them way more time than they should be But because she's focused on moving her up in her career and she feels she wanna give him the maximum amount you could easily get bumped out the way when a person's extremely focused. I've even experienced I've been working with a guy and then he, I've seen that he really, like, when someone was telling him no, like, he was looking at him like, &quot;What the fuck do you mean though?&quot; Like, his energy really was why you would fix your And then I'm like, I'm &quot;Oh, shit,&quot; like, this is like... Like, for a split in the neighborhood around. You know what I'm saying? And I'm like, no, like that they couldn't take the products into the chains that he was And he was like, &quot;Who's He was going over like to do what he's doing? Because his relationships to change his fucking mind But I've seen some gangster shit that, not from people that you in any way, but it was, in him was completely gangster, bro. Like, it was not like, you know, &quot;I'm gonna get your shot,&quot; But he was looking like, &quot;you telling me no?&quot; Like, are you crazy? Hold up, who's financing this guy? Cool. You see what I'm saying? 'Cause he has people to get to whoever's giving him the money to even have him exist and say, &quot;This fucking guy, he's an idiot. &quot;He's telling us no that &quot;This thing's the right thing.&quot; Like, what the fuck? Then later, they changed their mind. (Brian laughing) That's when I was feeling like Like, &quot;They told us no, bro. &quot;He told us no.&quot; And then I'm like, &quot;Yo.&quot; He was like, &quot;What?&quot; Like, &quot;What the fuck do you mean no?&quot; So you see a person don't understand that you're not doing what I wanna do? That's kind gangster to me, that you can even feel that way. - Mm. - You know what I'm saying? Like, there's a, not a lot but because they that they can't just do it. But, like, when I said that me being able to do what I like it's like not just fly on a jet when I get ready to, or cars or the house. I'm talking about if I'm creative, if I wanna make the series how good the series would be, I got the writers, I put the I make the series, I If you would've saw it, But now that you couldn't and I can have the money after the few years you, (Brian chuckling) You see what I'm saying? And then it changes. It even makes, it makes It makes &quot;The Final Lap&quot; make sense. Because when you look it makes all of the things that I do on the other side minor for the year. You see what I'm saying? So they could look at, put of someone who's, you're a producer, you're getting ready to sell Right. What the difference between I think the unwritten law is 'Cause everybody will do you a favor when you don't need one. When you do need it... - Forget it. - You have a unique and special situation if someone wants to help But when you don't need it and you could potentially do a bigger at some point, most people to do you that favor that you need. So when you come in please buy this show from me, I'm saying, look, this is an opportunity for us to have some success together. This is gonna work whether Like, see, this is the, when I still have a deal, in across 10 different networks in development coming out, they had to tell me no 23 times. 23 times they told me no. And another network told me yes. And I'm batting a Everything that I've released the highest radio shows they have. When you start saying, &quot;I wanna do it my way,&quot; then you lose out on all the content that I was contractually because I did not miss If you would've took that, But now someone should get a bucket and start throwing water over the side 'cause the boat got a You can't see it sinking? Your shit is sinking right Yeah, like, and this is that you see happening in the economy. Like, and you can't, what until you can just if no one else is enjoying being that. You know what I mean? And a lot of times, I wasn't or the nod that you'd of these actual projects. Look, if they compared it, &quot;The Power Universe&quot; to &quot;Yellowstone&quot; the success, multiple successful spinoffs following the success of the show. I mean, the advantage and connection of the project, the - Mm. You see what I'm saying? A lot harder for it to struggle to even be recognized at that point. But it's already widely enough appreciated to separate me from anybody And it's not even a, like like, the stuff that he's doing. But music's got a different a different... Like, the content that you would receive from me in music, kind of a part of that experience, the journey. The things that you see me offering in television are organic So like, my passion projects or the things that I get excited about are things that kind of are relatable Like, when we become the official cognac or champagne of a professional sports team like the Houston Rockets or the Texans or Sacramento Indiana Pacers, like all the cool part for me is to be able to connect with their So I'm able to bring true unity and connect with organizations Like, I've made donations to like, non-for-profits and But I didn't offer my time. You know what I mean, I would just do it. It makes a lot of people feel that, like, it's a tax write-off. But I went past what I I did different things the right thing to do from my perspective. And that now I'm able to coordinate and be with, the reason around philanthropy is because connecting through what they've developed to get to something that I 'Cause I'm able to see the it's already done. So it's not a waste of You know what I mean? And it makes me feel Like, if it was just in the environment myself then it has to become a big deal. I have to work on it till When I can pop and plug in different areas because in wanting to do it, that's Like, I think it, because like, the biggest Like, you go to Sacramento, the Kings are everything there. Like, in these different areas, it's... Like, during that, look, when it is the biggest. You know what I'm saying? So they've gone through that process and vetted organizations themselves to get to where they're And then it allows me that process and kind of come in. And then their relationships. I'm making relationships at instead of just being involved that are not put together, like that are not as well put together. Look, it is the cheat sheet for me because I probably wouldn't be involved as much philanthropy. But having the relationships, it makes it a lot easier with those intentions. 'Cause you gotta look and The guys that own the billionaire, billion-dollar franchise, their resources of where they should be Instead of me trying to figure it out. - Hmm. - I'm tapping straight into in those areas and now people understand why I decided to do it that way. Because it's the most And with Sire Spirits in like we should promote Only because 10% of all extreme poverty. Just people in our conditioned to give away what they work for. But if they started those you wouldn't feel... How different is your life? If we created Google, how if we allocated 10% of what the proceeds from it to extreme poverty. - From day one, how's the plan? - It would not change Just to make the majority of shareholders of the companies that not conditioned to give away And how could you fault them for that when they have to work to because, you know, that IRS (Brian chuckling) Like, this is exactly It's right there in front of you. - I think there's a psychological If you get and then you feel maybe it doesn't feel... - Look, if you got up and at that point, but you want to. Like, even when you see he's still making big because it's how he got to the position that he's in now, he So he's gonna pursue more until there's like no more to get. Like, to everything's this? - Hmm. - And then the object is to kind of, you have to put the money back. When you get to the top to put the money back so everybody else can function in it. 'Cause it's not gonna change anything in your life anyway at that point. - Hmm. - The cars, the houses, some people know how to live better than others with or without money. They just sought out to share their time with. You feel what I'm saying? Even if you sleeping in then you may be richer than a rich guy. You see what I'm saying? Your life, the fabric of your life and what you're doing and how you feel about yourself at the moment. If the person is, if Like, at the top of it, - Right. - Is the question. You know what I'm saying? Sometimes I say things, Like, 60 million, 80 million? I don't think there's a $80 million house. Like I don't think of things you can give me. - Right. - But if we sat down and thought of what to put in it, amenities? 80, that's not a house anymore this is a facility we can call it and we probably should put seats in it and make it one of these. - Share it in some way. - Yeah, so people could come and enjoy it. But other than that there's no, I don't think that there's a... I guess everybody has a different version in their minds of paradise, And when you try different look, the first things that I did was my first version of it. And that's why I was saying that you need to do it. You need to get it and have that and kind of be over what And then know you don't require it. Like, you can function and still do what you wanna do next under less. - Did you have to go through with Sire Spirits, like you were saying, if we were Larry Page, that's why the philanthropy from the start because of all You realize like, &quot;Okay, I have all this. &quot;Now I get what really is gonna matter &quot;and what this is all really for.&quot; - It takes time for you to figure yourself out. Like, you know, nobody comes ready. We can anticipate it, we And then when it takes When you're praying for success, we're not praying for jealousy or envy. And you can't have it without those things coming into your life. Or entitlement, from at you with new expectations because of what you've done. And then there's, I just think overall, like, you look at things and you say everyone responds differently Like, even your facelift, so now everybody looks at you differently because financially, you're this person that they know could secure what they would like for So now the women all of It's from this onslaught of shit. You feel like you like Like you got a whole new energy like, that to you that would And men are conditioned not exactly what we want. So when you in circumstances that you want and it just goes the way you want it to, it's awkward. It gets weird because you don't... I think when you still a whore and you still a ho, because you operating in What I mean by that, for the single males just watching this, when the physical experience out a mass text, you to see who's going to respond back and then to see who to hang out with at that point, that would be some ho shit if So I said when you still going through that type of thing. But until you find things to separate or you adjust to having the ability to do those things 'cause when you're not in a committed relationship, It is. When you talk about the relationships and how it pushes you that, you know, determined That was a big part of it. Like when we are able to And then it is a domino effect. So you'll see when they in the NBA, when you do &quot;Oh,&quot; then the other to me instead of me coming to them because they look and they 'cause it adds even to the event At points when you're you don't have your superstar players that are drawing everyone out because they're making those moments now. And it's cool that everyone's 'cause they know how to turn Like, but this is every team. Like, you know, when they and you go, &quot;Wait, oh, he not You see the new jersey, same player. You know you're a star, but he got a new jersey on, you know. But there's a, it's exciting to partner with the people that are because they've already kind to give back and do the right thing. So even with me starting with and doing that, it's easier You see what I'm saying? And if you looked at, you look and go, &quot;I've done this much Because it's like me saying when I say $25 million in legal fees, it's really a million dollars a year. You see what I'm saying? So if a million dollars of a deal like, for those expenses. 'Cause if you're notably successful, like I said, if you tripped in front of the camera and and the lawyer be like, because we could figure out how to try to make that 50's fault. You see what I'm saying? Like, you were doing the interview of 50 and you tripped and you fell. Did he move to cord before? (Brian chuckling) Was there a possible way to cord before that Just willing to see if you are willing to be paid for your injuries. - The same way the If you start giving early, then - No, no, look there, it will. I mean, and the more the more effective you You know, like, I think to develop, when you have finance it on your own. So like, I own these companies, It's not like other artists that have already established themselves and made it to a point where to them being ambassador or a You know, so when you end you can make the decision to be effective in other areas at the same time.