(ringing) Hello? (Incoherent taking on other side of phone) Uhh... Okay. It's for you, James. Hey, James. This is James from the future. Just wanted you to give you a call and let you know that, Puberty can be tough, but, you can get through it. So I wanted to let you know that everything's gonna be okay and... I love you. *POP* You got the wrong number. (hangs up) I grew up in a generation where smartphones where a new thing. And everyone in my class had one except for me. My parents never got me one because they didn't want me to access the Internet on a device that could fit in my pocket because they were super strict and didn't want me looking at... internet stuff... which backfired horribly. so, they never gave me a smartphone. In fact, I didn't even get my first cellphone until I was 16 years old. Now as an adult who uses his cellphone everyday, I don't know how I survived for 16 years without one. I think when I was younger If I was ever in a situation where I needed to call my parents I would just ask the nearest person if I could borrow their phone Now if there's are any parents watching this who haven't given their children a cellphone yet, Take it from a guy on the internet with no children. You should get them one. It doesn't have to be a smart one. You can just give them your standard drug dealer phone. But you should at least give them a cellphone in case there's an emergency and they need to call you or the police. The only downside I can think of giving your child a phone is: They'll end up spending TOO much time on it So.. you should just turn off their service from time to time I don't know. When I turned 16 and finished up my sophomore year of high school I got my very first cellphone: An LG Cosmos 2. I didn't grow up in the 90s... Tha- everyone else had iphones But I was the only one with a fli- with a phone that had a keyboard on it. and with that cellphone, I've had a couple of incidentses Where sometimes a random person would call me Thinking I was someone else... And then wouldn't admit they're wrong. And that's how you segway into the theme of this month's video. This first story happened when I was working at Sooubway. (Not Subway) THATS RIGHT ANOTHER SOOUBWAY STORY #SOOUBWAY 4. It wasn't good enough to be in the other 3. So it was 5 minutes until closing and we get a phone call on the Sooubway phone. I pick it up and say, &quot;UGHHHHH..Thank for calling I was supposed to say, &quot;This is James . How may I But I wasn't about to tell this random stranger my name... Idiot. Anyway, the &quot;Hey what time do you guys close?&quot; time do you guys close in five minutes James: &quot;In five minutes.&quot; Idiot: &quot;Is it alright if I show up late? I just need gas.&quot; And being the good employee I was totally willing to make this guy's sandwich over the phone, let him and then I wouldn't ring him up and just pocket the money. I'm just kidding I wouldn't do that. That's a crime. Please don't sue me. So I said, &quot;Yeah I can do that. What kind of sandwich do you want?&quot; And he said, &quot;I just need gas.&quot; &quot;Oh don't worry, sir. This sandwich will give you plenty of gas. I... I mean, do you want chips or something?&quot; &quot;No.&quot; he said. &quot;I just need gas.&quot; I was a little confused. &quot;Okay, yes. So, you'll get gas, then are you gonna stop by and pick up a sandwich?&quot; And he said, &quot;I don't want a sandwich.&quot; And then it hit me. Even though the first thing I ever said to this guy was: &quot;Thank you for calling Sooubway,&quot; I think he thought he was talking to a gas station. So I said, &quot;Sir, this is a Sooubway. &quot;OHHHHHHHHHHHHHH.&quot; (Hangs up) And I never got the chance to tell him This next story happened when I was at home and I got a call from a number I didn't recognize Now, I've had friends tell me that they don't answer the phone to any number But my anxiety won't let me do that. What if it's your bank calling saying your account got hacked? What if it's your grandma 'cause why Or what if it's your Nigerian uncle who You just never know, so I always pick up the phone. So, I answered it and it was this woman asking for a Lawrence. and I said, &quot;Oh I'm not- that- that's- You have the wrong number.&quot; and she goes &quot;isn't this 416 295 That's obviously not a real And I said, &quot;No, this is four one six two nine three.&quot; 'Cause, that's my phone number. Again, that's not actually a valid phone number. And she goes, &quot;Three? I don't think I pressed three.&quot; And, I don't know what to say to this woman. because my number is four one six two she pushed three so I don't know how unless she did so I said &quot;well obviously and then I made a comic about the whole situation because I thought This next story happened not too long recognize at 9:30 in the morning and I people would agree that you're supposed didn't want whoever this stranger was phone with my best I've-been-awake-for-several-hours voice HUU HOO HUU HOO HUU HOO HUU Hello? You're going to have to come Uhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh Wuuuuuuuuuuut? I said you're gonna have to come quickly cuz Timmy fell down the well, Vance. I could tell it was a woman on the the phone being buggy or I just had anything she was saying but I could make not have a lot to go off of I said I... (Incoherent screaming) okay... goodbye (Incoherent screaming) *Beep* well I should probably get to sleep but then immediately I got a okay maybe if this person is calling even after I explicitly told her she had number after all maybe there's something maybe it's an emergency so maybe mmm HO-LE LO-LE HASJKDALSFHLK VANCE okay I can't understand anything you're saying so then this friend because a different voice started her and I'll never forget what she said you're funny and even though I'm not obvious which was yes I am and also I'm whole time these two have been looking Lance either and she said WELL THIS IS THE NUMBER THEY GAVE ME okay if she the number they gave me I didn't mean to funny and enjoy your videos then that shifting the blame to someone else but like I was wasting her time well this is be wrong so you must be the real Lance well they must have given it to you But then she hung up on me like this person said you're not funny and then and said hey I just found the real Lance told me he doesn't give his phone number part I thought about doing it but then I then someone on the internet found my whoever has my old number is probably and people I went to high school with