Watch out, this is a premiere. Because MAN conversion specialist Toni Maurer actually put a very special tractor on the wheels with this MAN TGX 41.640. The MAN has loaded an oversized pressure vessel. But what exactly is that anyway? So we loaded a so-called column. Ultimately, this is a long container in which gases are washed. The column itself weighs 102 tons, is 50 meters long and is used in a chemical plant. The transport dimensions that we move here are 61 meters in total length and 200 tons in total weight. 200 tons in total weight.&quot; The dimensions, especially where it is a single continuous part, are enormous. And the overall weight is also impressive. But what is even more impressive is what this new MAN TGX with 640 HP is actually capable of. "This is the strongest truck that has ever been registered in Germany in terms of total weight. As a solo truck, it is approved for 500 tons. But with two trucks it can pull 750 tons, i.e. trucks are then coupled together. And if you take two trucks that pull and another that pushes, then it is approved for 1,002 tons. And that is the strongest thing ever in Germany. There was no such thing before" This makes the 8x6 tractor from MAN actually the pride and joy of Viktor Baumann. But anyone who believes that such a special truck just rolls off the assembly line is extremely wrong. Because it is a tractor that was developed according to the exact wishes of the customer. And that has the special know-how of conversion specialist Toni Maurer. A made to measure, so to speak. "The production time from the first interview to the completion took one and a half years. We approached well-known manufacturers of heavy-duty tractors with the specifications for a special vehicle, which nobody was able to achieve. And then we came across a good manufacturer who really helped us to make this car. With a driven front axle, a sensible transfer case. With a reasonable drivetrain, accessories as we wanted them to be. And that's where it came from&quot; "Also the vehicle has been retrofitted with a frame reinforcement over the entire length of the vehicle. This simply has to do with the fact that the vehicle is exposed to extreme loads during heavy transport and the vehicle should not twist. In addition, the vehicle has been retrofitted with a hydraulic front spring. A conventional suspension, be it a leaf suspension or air suspension, would have too much travel, so that the driven front axle, which requires more installation space than a non-driven axle, would knock into the oil pan" This makes this MAN TGX an absolutely special production. And currently the topic in the heavy-duty industry. This time it's about transporting a huge pressure vessel. But why do you need such pulling forces? And what can you pull with it? "There are, for example, transformers, cooling systems, containers. Everything you can imagine, what is big and heavy" Twilight sets in. Final preparations are underway. In the meantime, the police have also appeared for a final check. The 50 meter long pressure vessel has to be brought to a chemical plant 30 kilometers away. Driver Ingo Fischer is a little excited. Does the police actually know that a brand new heavy transporter is starting here? &quot;No, they weren't really interested in that. They focus on securing the load and that the transport runs properly. They don't know that at all. You have to tell them? No, no, we are happy if we get away on time" "I'm also very excited to see how the first tour will go. It is the first time with a load. I am excited and assume that everything will go well" It can't be long. A total of four patrol cars came. The preparations are in full swing. And where the huge container was built, the employees are particularly excited. &quot;It is quite spectacular work that Glatt has done there, and we want to take a look at it today&quot; &quot;Yes, of course, we made the column. And for me it is of course interesting, especially when it is in the district that you also look at something like that&quot; It is 10 P.M. And finally the heavy transport rolls on. But only at walking pace. First of all, the freight has to come out of the Bavarian town of Abensberg. One of the biggest obstacles is the roundabout, where signs have been removed. The fact that everything actually works like clockwork is the result of the long and intensive preparations by the heavy-duty company Viktor Baumann. That is also done! And actually it is only going straight this night. Particularly important because of the length: there are no too tight corners. But bridges quickly become an obstacle. The convoy stops again. And suddenly everything looks a bit hectic. What's the problem now? "Because of the bridge structures, we have to lower the trailer so that we have enough headroom. Collisions are a no-go" But how do you actually know what dimensions you are dealing with? Clearly, these questions are already clarified long before the transport. Companied use the latest technology. "We can scan that in 3D and then we have the heights. That's what counts for us. Then we adjust our chassis heights and then, even if there is only five centimeters of space, but we know in advance where it is really tight - and where it is not " During the entire transport, Matthias sits on the turntable of the steerable platform trailer from Goldhofer with a total of 14 axles. Via radio he is in close contact with his colleague Ingo Fischer. Both are old hands in this business and then master the last stage of the transport. The MAN tractor is disconnected at the destination. Now the really difficult part begins, because the 50 meter long pressure vessel has to be pushed backwards onto the site by truck. This task requires maximum concentration. Because the driver of the truck sees practically nothing. "Of course, the driver is connected to the colleague who is steering behind. They already give each other hints via radio where they have to go so that the driver also knows where to go because he can't see anything." In other words: blind trust. The term could hardly be more appropriate. &quot;This is how it is supposed to be. If that isn't the case, then you don't have to do it with your colleague. The two are always a team, they really have to understand each other blindly. &quot;We have been a team for a long time. After a while you have a certain eye for it. I know roughly what Mattes thinks. He knows that from me. You then complement each other. It's probably like in a marriage. Just that we're not married&quot; The new MAN TGX tractor has passed its test. With flying colors and straight away. And it did not even begin to reach the limits of its possibilities.