- Are you looking for somewhere where you can live a simple comfortable lifestyle on a modest budget? Perhaps somewhere you can live now, more than half of all retired adults currently as their only form of income. But I probably don't have to tell you that the average social security you very far, especially if and that's why so many people are leaving more than 450,000 Americans Security benefits abroad, If you are planning on retiring then this video is for you. These are places where you or $2,000 per month. They are generally considered safe, they have good healthcare, and they also have retirement visas that are easy and affordable to get. If you are dreaming of where your money will go to offer you some practical that dream a reality. I'll be ranking 10 countries by the cost of their retirement visas as of living, leaving the cheapest places for last in 10th place. The Tropical Archipelago of of the best retirement With more than 350,000 From the bustling metropolis of Jakarta to the serene rice patties of Bali, Indonesia presents a to live out your golden years. Now, one of the reasons why retirement destination is because of its K-I-T-A-S retirement visa, which you can qualify to Now, the catch for this visa is that although the cost of less than a thousand to show at least $3,000 for this program. So if you're living on social security, which right now the average then this one might be a little But if so, don't worry because we have a lot more amazing places to cover in this video. There's also a new that's been getting a because it allows up to But this has an even where they want you to show upwards of 2 billion Indonesian around 125,000 US dollars. But if you do have the cash once you get there, the and there are a lot of from to put down roots. The beautiful island for many expats, digital But if you're thinking then I definitely recommend and congested areas like Kuta and Seminyak and exploring farther afield top Tabanan is one hidden gem where you can live near The East coast beaches of Padang Bai and the tranquil fishing villages of Amed are also underrated but throughout Indonesia, to choose from in addition to Bali. So you definitely have a lot of options. Now, although Indonesia is of living, it also has The climate is also a big draw. You've got a warm climate year and welcoming locals. Indonesia also has a high with English speaking doctors living in Indonesia, however, such a vast area that there's not a lot of consistency when it comes and also the infrastructure. So if you're living in that's more reliable, but if you wanna live in then you might have to or to get certain services. Indonesia also has a that lasts from October to March, and there's also a language outside of the more developed areas around Bali and throughout the island. Bahasa Indonesia so would definitely be a good idea to brush up on your language skills. For some people, it can to the different culture In Indonesia, which is Argentina is the world's bigger than Texas and for soccer, tango and wine. Argentina is also one of the of beef from the cosmopolitan to the foothills of the Andes Mountains. Argentina is for city At least 60,000 expats call Argentina home with some 7 million people of European descent having So it's quite a mix of international and regional cultures to give Argentina the If you're interested in the arts, in food and nature, outdoor activities, Argentina has it all, especially of Buenos Aires. It also has a low cost of living up to 60% lower than the United to 80% lower. Now, when I visited around $2,000 for my month there. My rent was more expensive because I was staying there but if you're moving there long term, you could definitely get and keep that budget under a And I remember going out to eat there rarely cost maybe $15, but you can get a or lunch for just four or $5 an upside to living in Argentina. Besides the food and all the culture is the healthcare, which is actually quite modern and affordable, probably what you're used to paying. And Argentina also has a very that you can qualify for with This is also a path to citizenship if you'd While Argentina certainly it also has some challenges political stability, these for living in Argentina, although if you are coming to the country with a foreign currency or pounds, then that inflation rate could when it comes to calculating But in general, it's been very and has also resulted in some extra crime and just overall unrest due to the challenging economic Even though safety and security cities and certain as a whole was ranked in the Latin America, so don't Argentina's also a place that you'd want to learn Spanish if you were to move there as English is not widely spoken, and it's also a place known for having a bit slow But then again, which country doesn't Belize up in Central paradise bordered by the and the dense jungle to the west. Once the center of the Mayan empire, you can still visit ancient ruins there. today. The country is also known for its English speaking preserves and the world's reef as a whole. Belize offers an idyllic setting. If you're seeking a tranquil lifestyle, if retiring early is an option for you, then definitely consider for their qualified retired as 40 years old with If you qualify, then you can get a range of different import tax on your boat, on your airplane, And also on other household goods. And with this visa income One of the upsides to living in Belize, besides the beautiful and the nice climate is the cost of living where rent prices can be up to 80% lower than the United States. So we're looking at getting a studio or an efficiency apartment to $300 per month. A one bedroom could run or you can get a nicer apartment to a thousand per month. So that's well within your that retiree program. Now, if you're looking to then Belize has long been where one blogger I read said that prices there still remind him of the United States back in the 1990s. So you can get a starter really up to 200,000 will to invest in real estate in Belize. You can also build if you'd like, from 30 to $60 per square foot, or you And then property taxes are quite low, around a hundred dollars per year. The healthcare system in So you've got good healthcare more developed regions, but this can be a lot areas of the country. From some reports people have said that for really complex to go north to Mexico, which has a great medical tourism economy or up to the US or Canada. So it really depends on the Something a lot of people and available the where you can get a lot of prescription drugs prescription alternative. And herbal therapies are also And then another big pro is definitely the English speaking population. If English is your first to the rest of Latin America, to learn Spanish on the downside, the infrastructure in Belize country, especially in the more comes to roads and public services. So that's something to safety and crime. Although Belize is every country is at risk So you just wanna use And if a hot, humid, tropical then Belize probably won't either because you're definitely there year round. You already know that learning you communicate better and also fit in better But did you know that Learning a second memory and brain skills. It's also been shown to delay the onset of Alzheimer's and dementia. Whether you're preparing for a trip abroad or just want to pick up a new hobby, get a headstart on your with Rosetta Stone. Rosetta Stone is the best way to learn another language in a way that feels comfortable and natural. What I love about Rosetta for all different learning styles. Whether you like to learn speaking, or listening, you get to see written words alongside listening to native It's something you can do while at home or on the go with the Rosetta Stone app and audio companion that come in a lot of different topics from travel to food, so you can learn more about the culture while learning the language. They even have a voice recognition tool that's built directly into the app so you can nail your accent. And the best part about it is so you know if you're pronouncing something correctly or not. You know, when I first started to places like Italy and Mexico, I didn't speak and everyone said I would as I went along, but it really I needed more structure. And so if you're like me and you want to be able to before getting out into then try Rosetta Stone today. You can use the link below this video to get 60% off a lifetime subscription. That's just $149 for lifetime access to 25 different languages. And thanks again to Rosetta with me on this video. Thailand, a gem of Southeast Asia. Thailand is known as the climate friendly locals and laid back lifestyle from to the tranquil beaches of You can live anywhere in Thailand for less than a thousand of living less than half Thailand is definitely somewhere to consider the healthcare system. There is top-notch. Thailand has a world-renowned reputation for having modern healthcare facilities. It's a big magnet for medical tourism and it's a place where you for like 10 or $20. Of course, the bigger cities facilities, but overall Thailand It's also a place to really celebrate a You've got a lot of different festivals and events throughout the year, and then also year round markets, you've got the night So if you're a foodie and you love culture, then Now, the language barrier can Thailand as it's not a country where English is widely spoken, and Thai is kind of a but it is possible. I definitely have some friends who have become fluent in Thai. So if you're thinking of moving there, then definitely invest some time in learning the local language. Adapting to the sweltering hot take some adjustment, to more temperate conditions. Bangkok can be really hot as well as a lot of the beach towns, but you can find a little bit cooler maybe up into the mountains a bit. Uh, overall, Thailand is but it also has had a little and unrest, so also something to consider. And then also you've got a Pollution and the air quality times of the year, especially Uruguay, if Costa Rica is the Switzerland of Central America, then of South America, one of the more stable and well-developed countries between Argentina and Brazil. Uruguay stands out as a offering retirees a stable and welcoming environment, lush interior, and cosmopolitan Uruguay combines the charm and hospitality of South America. If you're someone who places freedom, privacy, and civil liberties, then Uruguay could be This is a country that consistently to democracy and political stability. According to entities like The Economist and the World Bank, the cost of living is quite although it's not the cheapest but you can still get your cost of living below a thousand dollars to 2000 per month. Uruguay's healthcare of the best in Latin America With both private and you can get high quality care of the United States, and as a retiree there you have the option to opt into the public healthcare system, or you can also go for private insurance, which could run you around English is increasingly spoken there, especially in the business but this is another country on this list that you definitely wanna learn. The local language, which is Spanish. Uruguay as a country is a and it also has a very that you can qualify for of monthly income, usually recommended around $1,500 per month. And their residency visa is But this isn't one of those golden passports where you can buy In the case of getting they're gonna wanna see and they will check your ultimately decide to apply to As I mentioned, it's to live in Latin America, to places like Columbia, Ecuador, but you still of living there, although the for you as Uruguay does after a certain period of residency. Paraguay often described as Paraguay is a lesser known with a lot to offer. If you're looking for a warm and a slower pace of life, Paraguay is one of the most affordable countries with an average cost of living of up to 70% lower than the United States. So if you're really looking for a place where you can stretch that then take a closer look at Paraguay. A lot of people really like it. I mean, just listen to what one of my relocation clients Could you share with us, Dave, like approximately in the first month that you've been there, or what do you think will be your average monthly cost of living - In American money? Uh, you're looking at, uh, for a two bedroom, fully and it's new, it's, you It's got everything in it I, I think if you do the you can find that price range no problem. And as far as the, is it like you go in the grocery it's really cheap, you American products, you know, If you want Heinz ketchup and you want the Nature Valley so you're gonna pay the same But if you get the local it's, it's a fraction. Instead of paying $5 a bottle, you're probably paying a dollar you know, that type of stuff. Uh, the vegetables are much cheaper. The meat is really cheap here. I went out to a place, I and it was probably $10, you know, and I had a beer with that, again, you just can't go to go tight on the budget. Absolutely. I, I mean, I, my and I've got money left over Yeah. So it's, it's for people if they, Stay within a tight budget. And, uh, and, and I mean, the quality of beyond my expectations. I was expecting less, but I mean, the, the malls here The shopping, uh, the restaurants, you'll, you'll want from nothing. I mean, it's incredible the, and beautiful places sitting I mean you, lots of things here that, uh, you're well covered and how big obstacle is gonna be the language. That's it. - Paraguay also has a that can be completed and One of the ways to qualify is by making a deposit in which is equivalent to Right now that's about 5,000 US dollars. And while there's no minimum it is recommended to dollars in monthly income. Paraguay also has a territorial that income generated from outside of the country is tax free and they have a 10% flat Paraguay also makes a great base for exploring different Argentina, Brazil, and Bolivia. And you can get on a after three years. There are some challenges, the public healthcare system and also underdeveloped. So a lot of people opt which you can get for around The infrastructure can outside of the major cities. And like many countries in the area, English is not widely spoken, so you'd wanna learn Spanish here. But despite any of the everyone I've talked to Now, although it is not it's a very tight knit one of like a big family because Paraguay is a bit off the radar. It's not the most popular world like Portugal or Mexico. So there aren't as many But the people who do And they do have a very If you're looking for a simple then the Philippines should This is a country with an around five to $600 per month. And I've definitely seen how they retired in the or $400 per month. Whether you're looking country life out in the provinces or island life on one of the countries, nearly 8,000 islands, the Beyond the rock bottom cost English is an official of the places that you to learn another language. The healthcare system has with a lot of English speaking doctors that were trained abroad. Uh, but for me, the big draw of living in the Philippines I've said this before in other videos, but I genuinely think that of the nicest, friendliest, I mean, not just being nice to you because they want something or being fake nice, but like a, a real friendship that I felt with the people there. So if all of this sounds good to you, then check out the Philippines SRRV visa, the special retirement visa, to retirees and is a path This visa comes with minimal requirements and also a lot of local and tax exemptions. And there are a few different categories that you can qualify under. It has one of the lowest income $800 per month for a single person or up to a thousand dollars But there's also another category, if you have some long-term where you might need to they even have special and retired military. So definitely check the website below and see what you qualify for. Another option that a lot 13 a marriage visa. So if you're looking to get But really the SRRV is very popular and it also offers a lot of benefits. You get those customs and it's infinite. It's a permanent residency There's also a 10 to $20,000 deposit depending But overall the 800 to a thousand or 1500 minimum income And then once you move to the Philippines, you can also take advantage Malta located in the Libya, and Sicily. Malta is one of Europe's smallest countries made up of two islands. Malta and Gozo. Evidence of human to at least 5,000 bc. You can even visit ruins there that are older than the Giza pyramids due to its prime location. Malta is a really You've got influences from Italy, the United Kingdom. And the language is also Although English is an Maltese is actually a French, Italian, English, so If you envision your retirement surrounded by blue water, This is a place that's perfect and the outdoors. You've got sun year round, But on the other hand, there's also ways to escape from the sun as Malta has a really and gaming culture, nightlife. So if you need to escape to go when it comes to where to live. Valletta is a really popular It was the European capital of culture and it's also one of the first But a really popular spot is through St. Julian's and Lima. You've got lots of apartment complexes. It's very walkable, it has but then you can also where it's less populated. You can get lower rent prices or you could be really adventurous and head over to the other island of Gozo. The healthcare system in among the top 20 in the world. And fun fact, Malta actually has one of the oldest public healthcare back to the 13 hundreds. But of course you're gonna find today, especially St. James Hospital, which is the largest private hospital in the country. And to qualify for Malta's to hold private insurance. So you can look up quotes with local or international companies. Some local companies include, uh, Lala, Bupa, and mre. English is an official language in Malta, so you won't have any Malta also has one of the especially as a percent So really easy to meet Malta is one of those to attract foreigners of investors, digital nomads and retirees. And under the Malta Retirement Program, there's actually no minimum age. As long as you meet there's not even a specific number for the income requirement. You just have to show that 75% of your income comes from So if you are going to be living exclusively or at least 75%, then this But if most of your income is cashflow properties, then this might not be A downside to this program that are brought into the but there's a lot set in place there to prevent you from getting Also, you know, if you're a nature person, you might like the sunshine, but if you're looking for mountains, then Malta is not for you. I mean, this is a limestone of the Mediterranean sea. So one of the things that it And I personally felt that when I was staying Um, you know, the food scenario also, it's not the best place and getting that, you know, farm to table, fresh local produce, Malta is So a lot of food is although you can get a lot and Italian food as well. There will be no shortage and rabbit for you and Malta. Another thing to keep in mind that mild climate year round, not all of the buildings have good insulation. So I remember when I it was actually colder inside outside and I was just and I even had gloves on 'cause there's these stone buildings. So that could be Uh, make sure you have good climate control. Also, you know, living and it can be very loud. The streets echo a lot. You're definitely gonna So if you don't like maybe you wanna try a less But overall, Malta has People really love it. It's just not the cheapest I mean, there's no minimum that retirement program, but the cost of living is places like, uh, Paraguay or However, still pretty moderate, about 25% lower than the United States. Nestled in the heart of Albania is a hidden gem that offers a Mediterranean of the cost of more popular From the stunning Adriatic coastline to its rugged mountains Albania is a picturesque and diverse place for anyone and relaxation. What makes Albania so attractive is that it hasn't suffered of overt tourism that you've of Western Europe, and Croatia, Montenegro. It also has an extremely among the lowest in Europe and a very straightforward if you even need it. Albania is another country like Malta that really welcomes foreigners and they have visa free travel or visa on arrival for upwards of 80 or 90 different countries. So depending on where you're from, you might actually be able to 365 days with just a passport. So this gives you an of an extended exploratory trip there before you go through And with the residency permit, the minimum income is only So it's really straightforward and it also gives you a and citizenship. Everything in Albania is than what you're used everyday purchases to monthly utilities and services and rent. Of course, you can rent, uh, a room or a studio from a hundred to about a thousand dollars for something in a nicer Now the healthcare system in but it does offer services And something interesting I found through a study from the that it said that up to 60% of Albanian citizens for healthcare at a cost So while it's not as developed it's definitely affordable and you can get a lot Now, while the healthcare as developed as other places. So you might wanna consider traveling for certain procedures. The infrastructure also So if you're in the more as reliable infrastructure compared to the cities Toronto Duras. But if you stay near it's gonna be more consistent. Also in Albania, they speak Albanian, so there will be a language barrier there as English is not widely spoken, but that is a perfect opportunity for you to brush up on your Albanian regardless. There is a strong expat So it's one of those to make friends from other countries. And despite, you know, some of the pros and cons, people seem to What were some of the countries that you looked at moving to? - I don't know how I stumbled And there were just no downsides. I just, the more I looked, It's beautiful. Um, it was affordable. It's on the water, which is another aspect that I really wanted. Um, I actually live on the li but it's water and it So I had never been here, and I actually, I, I mean they, it's recommended you but I couldn't afford to I'm just gonna go &lt;laugh&gt;, jumping - In with both feet. - Worst case scenario, and my passport's good for 90 days. I'll just pick another So luckily I like it here. So - In first place, we have Peru to the Andes Mountains and coastal plains. Peru has it all known for its as Machu Picchu and its Peru is an affordable of the most spectacular scenery, culture, and history in the world. I really love Peru. It has The country is so huge, it's so diverse. You've got so many different of people, amazing food, and also just such a But it's also very affordable. You can eat a meal out A cell phone plan might and monthly utilities can run around $50. You can find a monthly efficiency or studio from 175 to $250 per month, or even $500 would go a I mean, here's a house for Peru's healthcare system is decent with good facilities in cities like Lima, where a doctor's appointment Overall, it's the second cheapest and living here is more of the countries in the world. So you can really save a lot and have a very comfortable lifestyle. Another thing to love about of different climates. So unlike other parts of that can be really hot in Peru, you have the beaches that really have kind of a California feel And you also have the mountains, although the altitude can and take some adjusting to, if you've never experienced before, you probably will In Peru. Peru's Renta Visa was for foreign retirees with a of a thousand dollars per month. You can also apply for after a few years, but this to see that you're actually living there before they give you permanent residency. On the downside, the infrastructure I've been out in the countryside where there was no running So you know, it really but it shouldn't be a And if you do go to Peru, then I definitely recommend taking one of the overnight buses of the countryside. Those bus rides can be just and the seats are so comfortable, I swear it's more comfortable class or first class. So that is my favorite way to get around. But if you're going really far distances, then you might want to fly. Language barriers can also be a challenge. This is another country where you definitely wanna but overall, Peru offers a lot and see and explore once you get there. Now you might be thinking, wait a second, there's definitely some Where's Panama? Where's Costa And you would be right. I covered all of those countries and more in this video to retire in the world. So watch that one next