Let's talk about territories. Obviously is very important to wolves, as it is to been part of the game. But, for the actual challenge! In the original game, we really around and marking territory every 50 or And since our map wasn't huge to begin making the territories ridiculously divided into pie slices and had to go a great solution. But it did fit our which was something, you know, people play couple times... and that would be it! Of and we're happy to be here -twelve bigger and better version of WolfQuest! much bigger and better version of the see in the Amethyst map (that's out there we've created this hex grid of live in the area. And, as a solo wolf (and not possible to... to claim territory by enforced no-man's land in the middle and take over and squeeze you out But now that we're really working hard really solve this problem. And we knew and stopping every 1500 meters to... to mark... since we really want much bigger compared to real wolf territories, but in It needs to be a substantial part of the map. design for this bit of gameplay. And, as the research on wolves and territory and one of them, Dan Stahler, a wolf biologist at Yellowstone National Park, mentioned that, actually, wolves don't uniformly around their territory. They surprise if you've ever seen a dog out and spots: either the same spots themselves other canines' spots that they've marked. And hydrants or rocks or boulders or building this into the game. So, we have size of it (so now they're smaller hexes, claim and maintain a hex, you have to term biologists use: a scent post. Which landmark a boulder or a signpost or a middle of a grassy field. So here we are been getting that set up! And let's see the middle of map, on the edge of the old corner here. Let's take a look and see They're... they are filling in all the areas Amethyst, we don't have any enforced anything, they will just keep expanding... start playing Slough Creek, you've got to establishing your own territory. One little readouts showing the strength of going to be very useful as you get into just mark right here. So, as a tooltip here says, once you've territory marking into a scent post: just There we go: 7% claim on this hex! And now look, you can see that it's... it's now, that's established as a... as a ...as a we can see it. We've got a nice, big marker to other scent markings. So, I've jumped territory marked here. And again, you can They fade much more slowly than they did markings... they can last several weeks have something like that, as well. It maintain your territory. It will be just each ...each hex has a scent post. And so in the upper left. There is a little icon... scent post icon up there) but you can see is the scent post in this hex. And so we following the compass. Alright... the way it swings Okay, you can also use the floating scents to ... to renew this one (do we... do we need to even Don't really need to hit that one again. ours that has dropped quite a bit and coming up here? We can see a lot of our So between using scent view to follow the you're wandering around, as you're site... It's pretty easy to just go from and find the scent post and go up there at 34% ! pose- this action- is called raised leg That's when males do it. When the females (They don't get their leg up as high.) they raise the leg up. The idea is to get target where the wind can waft it out claim on this bit of turf, far and wide. they have the extra equipment to aim females do this flexed leg urination (as complaints sometimes from players saying squatting. That's not true. Sometimes they at some point, we might add more what wolves really do. But the basic pose What do we get? 91% ! So you can see this territory. So, not far away, here is a hex that's quite weak. Maybe we should go Okay, so we're entering Crevice Lake's Find their scent post and then you mark you have to go around and do all sorts completely and build up your claim. So, the scent post. Because these are really would know where they are. And real visual landmarks in the environment (like that up for all the stranger wolves. For that would be a very wolfy thing to do, notice here: we just got this working work: these for the pack! So, Crevice Lake is this kind posts. So, that's kind of nice. So, if we go Okay you can see the the visual effect strength dow ( it was already pretty weak almost wiped out now. And so now I can go build up my claim. Here you can see its slight claim there. We can howl ...and definitely boost your territory claim there. they're out there on their territory and speak, they will come down and you could your hands. So what are we at now? 38% so we can take it over. And the goal is strangers do find you! So all this time -when you're taking over a can rely just on the scent post. Although you territory by howling, by just being in it, things reinforce and strengthen your it! That's the new territory marking episode of WolfQuest: Anniversary