Peter Robinson: Welcome to Uncommon Knowledge, as National Security Advisor to President the administrations of President Nixon and Nobel Peace Prize for negotiating a settlement works of history and diplomacy, Henry Kissinger Chairman of Kissinger Associates. Iraq. You've are American forces withdrawn as part of a because America is exhausted by the War?&quot; indicates that, but a political settlement to be done? Henry Kissinger: I can only give the answer without a political settlement -- in other other countries and internal forces are willing the war will not end. This is not a war over it's resolved under the secular order as we from exhaustion, the crisis will move to Lebanon, there's substantial Islamic populations that Peter Robinson: The political problem. The warfare in a democracy, something of which of figures by which I'm struck. Dwight Eisenhower the War broke out, and in -- overall, we achieved achieved a settlement in Vietnam some 8 years achieve our objectives, because by then Congress war - Henry Kissinger: No, we achieved our objective. off the economic and Military aid to South that would have collapsed also. If you conceive -- walking away and not enforcing an agreement, Peter Robinson: Well, what I'm struck by here seemed able to fight in Korea, although, it office with approval ratings in the 20's. 5 years in Iraq. How you support John McCain? do to sustain support in the country to engage to - Henry Kissinger: What you would like to see we haven't had. The best the President can situation. If, then, the Congress votes him is one has to pay the consequences later on. he will explain to the American public what put forward a negotiating scenario that describes I don't say that on his behalf, that would Peter Robinson: Right - Henry Kissinger: my expectation. But, it's to the public, and he's, after all, conducting have any doubt what he's doing or what he's Peter Robinson: He has said several times the War. Henry Kissinger: Right Peter Robinson: That's a demonstration of new administration, questions about how to criticized this administration for invading Army, mishandling relations with certain allies. Henry Kissinger: But, I favored - Peter Robinson: You -- go ahead - Henry Kissinger: going -- I favored going Peter Robinson: Well, let me ask you about 2 months before the invasion in March of 2003, the Bush administration was resting too much of weapons of mass destruction, -- Henry Kissinger: Right Peter Robinson: and, too little on the underlying since the end of the first Gulf War, Suddam the no-fly zone over, and over, and over, an Arab regime to flout -- to stick its thumb and that was sufficient reason for invading Henry Kissinger: That was my basic reason, Peter Robinson: That is your basic reason? did the Bush administration get right and what McCain, or Hillary, or Obama will find Henry Kissinger: I think the Bush administration of the threat that we were facing an assault a fundamental philosophical and strategic right that it could not be defeated in any they took, I had a different view on. Peter Robinson: Right. Europe -- I quote you, to Joe Spiegel [assumed spelling]. &quot;The major by nation states which developed over several in the mind of European populations that the Now, the structure of the nation state has and the capacity of governments to ask for Ever since the end of the second world war integration. In applauding the formation and crystallization of the European Union have Henry Kissinger: Well, the temptation is always of the changes and all the benefits of what a mistake? -- Probably not because Europe nation state was no longer in a position to which used to be characteristics of Europe. achievable, we thought you could transfer organization that was being created, and that So, Europe in a way, is now suspended between and its future, which it hasn't yet reached, Peter Robinson: The demographic argument. observation. If you have a country in which population, has a birth rate 3 times as great the time in which it takes the 10% and the that is an accurate description of France American history -- well, I shouldn't say has been the heart of the west and has been shares our values, is it simply disappearing? Henry Kissinger: Well, the Europe that built affairs for 200-300 years was a Europe of states. If the demographic equation moves the nature of the European state, as it has and political debates will be conducted on and fewer ideological minds. Peter Robinson: A couple of figures here -- a yet again. &quot;It is obvious that the United for western interests by itself.&quot; That's the the ground in Afghanistan today; the United together, under 26,000, and many of them in is -- so far you've said Europe is in this state and the European Union, the demography Henry Kissinger: Well - Peter Robinson: I'm -- I'm trying to -- not knees -- I'm begging you to give me some - Henry Kissinger: Yeah. Peter Robinson: something encouraging here. Henry Kissinger: Theoretically, only two things or -- that is that -- our perceptions of the NATO organization will have to be changed the willing to be created from case to case, votes to take an action, and then a significant its commitment, can not indefinitely continue. Peter Robinson: Are we -- have we been correct Henry Kissinger: I have been in favor of the questions on two issues. One is when you take directly attacked, like some of the Balkan it becomes unmanageable. And, secondly, I which isn't happening now anyway- Peter Robinson: Mhmm Henry Kissinger: because I believe the position so much of Russian history is tied into it, relations to Ukraine into two parts. One, west or, at least, should be -- and able to what ever, about them permitting it -- inviting Military position should be more like Finland's, is not, technically, part of an aligned structure case, to Saint Petersburg, in this case, [inaudible] approach. I would not want to be -- have Ukraine of its geography. Peter Robinson: China and India. Henry Kissinger event. The great states of Asia are not nation of cultures.&quot; Conglomerates of cultures, why for us? much larger and potentially much more powerful In China, and I'm sure it's true in India larger than the largest countries in Europe. or even ethnic identity. They are formed because is harder --the European -- with so many European balance of power because if somebody changed Peter Robinson: Right Henry Kissinger: But, when you have only three three -- you have China, India and, I suppose, complicated and it makes each individual unit, much more formidable. Peter Robinson: Question on the English speaking just look at the numbers of troops in Iraq Gordon Brown [assumed spelling] may have decided longer be used by his government, we have in the English speaking world. Henry Kissinger: Absolutely Peter Robinson: Is it sensible to think of way? Is it sensible to -- you spoke a moment to think- Henry Kissinger: I think it's acceptable -- with respect of the Islamic world. It's is the primary fact or even that it speaks observation, India conducts foreign policy conduct foreign policy in the 19th Century. to Aden, and that they were leading against Union was close to their border, because they issues like access to Berlin, but now they 160,000,000 and they know they're fundamentally to sweep through the Islamic world. Shiite India will, itself, be under pressure. So, to the United States in that region from-, to China, India wants to be independent, of and we don't need to think of it in terms in the nature of the state and we don't have require for them to conduct parallel policies Peter Robinson: I sometimes, I know, tried no one else. I don't know why I should try But, the idea is -- Iraq, Iraq, Iraq that's to the the opening to India may turn out in 10 or right or wrong? Henry Kissinger: No, you're right. I think intellectual circles there's sort of compulsion Peter Robinson: Yes Henry Kissinger: and to assert the principal If you actually look at it, we have good relations India, we have adequate relations with Russia, individual European states, so where exactly and I'm sure when a new administration comes are. Peter Robinson: The inevitable question about growth rate of 10% for the last -- 10% a year way even more staggering -- not since 1990 -- query. You mentioned that India conducts to, that is to say, with quite a clearly demarcated we suppose that China will restrict itself itself. That is to say, Asia and the Pacific fair hope? Henry Kissinger: Well, we can't know exactly, of things. One is that it has never happened, indefinitely. Secondly, the Indian -- the the one child family, is producing a demographic China will become old before it becomes rich. population has to look after old people. Then the coast is like, let's say, western Europe at any one point that about 100,000,000 Chinese project this as a world power that is going I think we have a number of decades in which relationships with China and the United States Because it be a tragedy if Chinese nationalism a situation in which the two most significant with each other, because one outcome might each other for the benefit of third parties. Peter Robinson: So, it's avoidable? Henry Kissinger: We have to try to avoid it. Earlier this year you joined former Secretary Defense William Perry, former Senator Sam in the Wall Street Journal entitled, &quot;Toward is from the article itself. The article called the goal of a world without nuclear weapons Now, here's the second quotation from Margaret &quot;Nuclear weapons can not be disinvented. The risk will always be that someone will make notion of a world without nuclear weapons, there the danger -- aren't you in effect saying nations ought to eliminate their nuclear arsenals, some terrorist group or rogue nation will it would take in that circumstance? Henry Kissinger: First, I agreed with Margaret I am told by my colleagues, and by many others, to say it would be best to have a world without Peter Robinson: But that's [inaudible] Henry Kissinger: I believe -- If you ask me said this to all my colleagues, and I don't have a precise idea how to get there. We have I stand behind those proposals. - Peter Robinson: Alright - Henry Kissinger: and, there then maybe other today -- the first thing we'd have to do is to figure out how many weapons could be hidden, and we could never go in the most optimistic deal with that. Peter Robinson: Russia still possesses about economy relies on old fashioned extractive -- its Armed Forces are spotty in many regards War. What can we possibly do to persuade the prestige on them? Is it obvious that they then, of course, the obvious pairing with more than 4,000 operational nuclear warheads Henry Kissinger: I think it will be possible or 1,500, 1,000 I don't know what the right Peter Robinson: But, a lot lower? A lot lower Henry Kissinger: A lot lower than we have. that to be achieved in the new - whatever Peter Robinson: Alright. Iran, a harder nuclear Dick Cheney, &quot;We will not allow Iran to have Abizaid, &quot;There are ways to live with a nuclear Soviet Union, we've lived with a nuclear China, as well.&quot; Whose side is Henry Kissinger on? Henry Kissinger: Well, I don't agree with one thing to live with the Soviet Union that they were quite an advanced country, and because have 10 countries, each making their own calculations, for causes that are not necessarily global, in my view, is intolerable, and it now so this issue, because if they get nuclear weapons also gonna get nuclear weapons. So, it isn't were the only nuclear country, we'd replace them, but it still doesn't take care of another nuclear capability as a kind of umbrella over with them on nuclear imperialism. Peter Robinson: Well, is it the logic of that with our European allies, and I think I'd has been pretty spotty as regard to Iran. by military action, if necessary, to permit capability. Is that the logic of the argument? Henry Kissinger: The logic of the argument to be agreed on, at which one has to come going ahead to build a capability that must that the present message are not succeeded. of Iran or the real global sanctions over until we're closer to that moment, but we be coming. Peter Robinson: The long view. In his recent about the extreme difficulty of attempting of elite opinion that was hostile to that Administrators, bureaucrats, the entire apparatus to do was read the New York Times, or switch and drip by drip the material was absorbed could a minority win out over a majority or politics?&quot; Question, has that changed? The News, have they created openings in, for example, for the Bush administration that you never together during Vietnam? Henry Kissinger: But, there's more variety Peter Robinson: Yes. Henry Kissinger: and, due to such networks Peter Robinson: Fox - Henry Kissinger: Fox News. It was almost totally since your audience is probably younger than has to point out -- you keep talking about the Vietnam War. It had been going on for our complexities was that several of those movement. Peter Robinson: What do you consider the beginning the American involvement in Vietnam? From Henry Kissinger: Well, there was American but we went across what we had done for other when we started sending, I think, 30 to 50,000 in that magnitude who need to protect themselves, line was when President Johnson sent combat Peter Robinson: Right Henry Kissinger: in 65 - Peter Robinson: Right, then it becomes explicit. You said there's more variety now - you that the variety was all together acceptable Henry Kissinger: The variety is acceptable intellectual opinion. It's still heavily weighted Peter Robinson: Why is that? You have made the city of New York, one of the great glories one would expect 911 to be a very recent memory down the island of Manhattan and the entire the war in Iraq. What happened? Henry Kissinger: Well, it isn't just -- first against war -- it's already a terrible debate, Peter Robinson: Right Henry Kissinger: There are people who think than what we're fighting -- then what we're the 60's may be as a result in part of the I was a young professor in the 50's at Harvard don't -- I can remember only one Republican when we had faculty meetings on people in attacked the government for being a criminal to go to war -- they're blood dripping. Sometime itself was an evil enterprise that they lied that the purpose of intellectuals was to negate and that makes it very tough. Because, I start administration since Eisenhower, and, first public -- half -- 9/10's of the time these confused - Peter Robinson: Right Henry Kissinger: Secondly, everybody working and all the other pressures, because he would a contribution to a better world. So, nobody are destructive, so when the debate gets put get us into wars, the administration genuinely genuinely believe, that there were weapons probably wrong but it was not a deliberate Peter Robinson: Final question. Henry Luce Century. What's your feeling about the 21st? or do we find ourselves in the position of in which our dominance is - Henry Kissinger: Well - Peter Robinson: fading? Kissinger: It can be the American -- it can but we have to understand our capacities, We can not think that we can redo the whole peoples against dangers and prevent a balance us. But, it requires, first, a more continuing of America historically. - Peter Robinson: Right Henry Kissinger: Secondly, a clearer vision [inaudible] and the world crusade, and it on the substance of foreign policy. When we what anyone knows say -- can learn it on the learn. You can use up your substance but it's Peter Robinson: Henry Kissinger, thank you Knowledge in the Hoover Institution. Thanks