In the world of artificial There's been one name that's lately. ChatGPT. ChatGPT. ChatGPT. OpenAI, the San created ChatGPT opened the November 2022. In under a week, The AI model according to OpenAI's CEO. By the end of January, million visitors per day. Users have put the text-based with prompts ranging from the even the creative. The future is unfolding. It's hard to ignore. Automation is coming, just The tool has become so popular users to be met with a at capacity and can't handle As a linguist and as a person grammatical issues, stylistic the first thing that's really at basic writing. It's better I've gotten from students I would say it has been a not just ChatGPT but around I've described this in a being akin to an iPhone Of course, as with any new of legitimate concerns. If people believe that there's tools like this can only make OpenAI declined to be documentary. So in order to how it works, CNBC decided to and just ask the chatbot We entered our questions into instructed ChatGPT to answer interview format. We used the give ChatGPT a voice. Can you give me a short then tell me what kinds of I am ChatGPT, a large language I am capable of understanding answer a wide range of creative writing and text So a lot of the people that to think that you're pretty have all of this knowledge? I have been trained on a allows me to understand and of topics. The data set information, such as books, allows me to have knowledge Do you have any limitations or As a language model, I don't experiences or beliefs. I can only base my responses been trained on, which means in their accuracy or knowledge is based on the at the time of my training, And as an AI model, I might model's predictions. The maker of ChatGPT, OpenAI, including Microsoft, LinkedIn Khosla Ventures. Elon Musk company back in 2015. ChatGPT, which stands for Transformer, is just one of which support its goal of intelligence benefits all of At the core of ChatGPT and what experts refer to as a For ChatGPT, that model is Language model is the powers the chatbot. I like to think about it as engine and the chatbot being And so the language model complex, what they call, It's the thing that sifts patterns and the chat interact with, that's where Chatbots have been around for tailored towards very answering basic customer phone bill. ChatGPT is much the wide sweeping data on OpenAI doesn't reveal specific What we do know that it's a It surfs the web, spools, all They do Wikipedia entries, a ChatGPT is part of a growing Generative AI. Most of AI in the last couple around analyzing existing So finding an anomaly in a movie recommendation. different. It allows you to That content can be text like or marketing copy in a It can be video. It could even be audio, like The technology has venture Funding for generative AI billion in 2022 alone. Microsoft has been investing company committed $1 billion In January, Microsoft investment. One expert said that it could about $100,000 a day. A lot of AI researchers have costs millions of dollars to the bandwidth of keeping it use. I mean, these are not They require a lot of In a tweet, OpenAI CEO, Sam average cost per query is a are eye-watering. Enter OpeningAI trained the models Azure, Microsoft's public That's a bunch of servers the middle of the state of locations around the world. But OpenAI is not the only generative AI code. Big tech companies and a slew of generative AI texts to pictures or videos among other use cases. One VC firm estimates that now working on generative AI. Meanwhile, Microsoft, Meta their own language models to conversational chatbots. Though development has not Back in 2016, Microsoft promptly shut down for Unlike some of the other hyped few years, this has a very individuals and for Microsoft has taken some of built and added it to So, for example, CarMax is a look at reviews of cars. And what CarMax did is it Azure and it summarized all Sorento. And that way you reviews. Microsoft is reportedly also its Bing search engine in a One company that's already feature is You.com, which using a conversational still far from perfect, and should take care to not rely not for the time being. It's OpenAI's CEO who said, quote, on it for anything important It's a preview of progress. We have lots of work to do on There's a lot of kinks that For instance, it generates a And it's really confident, I talked with a legal when they tried using it to summarize court cases, it was wrong. So they couldn't use of yet. With its massive user base, one that's top of mind for During a monthly all-hands said that Google has much providing wrong information conservatively than a small releasing its chatbot however, already internally and an alternative search and answer format. Another iteration of AI technology is if the databases that it toxic. People have already found biased answers like housework, men with more certain examples. You know, OpenAI has an issue that's been long lot of companies trying to Many of these datasets do have or wrangling process that offensive or pornographic or the dataset you get on your But cleaning up this large human cost. A recent that OpenAI initially sift through thousands of horrific situations including hate speech. The workers' job inappropriate so that ChatGPT filter out toxic content. According to the TIME these workers walked away CNBC reached out to OpenAI incident, but the company did Despite these efforts, ChatGPT has provided bomb making. Though experts guardrails almost daily to such queries. What do you do if somebody potentially dangerous like I cannot provide instructions activity such as bomb making. Even though generative AI like to go, predictions about how our society are already One prominent discussion propensity to replace some Among the industries that may experts say, are journalism, Programing may also change, training generative AI models Relatively few of the stories news are done as They're more reporting something that generative AI There now are an increasing briefs, which lawyers write. Tools like this, Barron says, customizing briefs for a of the data of their past briefs succeeded in winning But not everyone shares this This is not something that's It's a novelty. It's a gimmick. ChatGPT is ultimately an iterative step can see the capabilities of world of language. Nevertheless, society has Worries around students a number of school districts tool. Baron suggests that having students take oral multiple handwritten drafts can see the progress of a just the end result. programs like OpenAI's complicated questions around Still, some experts believe brain. Large language models are understand the world outside and I and other humans do. What it may do is take away tasks that were part of our to do, like some of the data But I think this will opportunities for knowledge the opportunities that it As for ChatGPT's thoughts, bot. Do you think that AI, like change the world? AI has the potential to industries and fields, but it is used and developed. And to ensure that its impact is