Hello! No, this is not Hello Brains! Hello Brains! I live here? [ intro music ] Hello Brains! Welcome to my ADHD friendly home. I've kind of obsessively been trying to... ...make my home Which means deliberately There's a lot of stuff ...strategies that I've used I've learned how to function But in my own home I can And that's what I've It's a work in progress. So you know how ...and have a hard time So this is really easy because... ...it's basically a slowcooker So it's really ADHD friendly. I forgot to make dinner..., ...I don't know what ...I have a bunch of stuff And like start it... ...and then I can go Like, I can go do whatever ...while dinner is cooking. And I don't have to worry about Super ADHD friendly! The other thing I do is... ...try to have everything This was really helpful for And it's really helpful Where you have everything that ...within arm's reach of that task. And so for this, that means So I get a cup. I need water, so I fill The water's right here, And then everything that I need So I have coffee filters, ...I have things to eat with the coffee. Everything is right here. And that does a couple of things. It makes it easier and faster ...it also means that I ...&quot;oh right, shoot, And wander over to the fridge ...in here, where did I put them? And then like, &quot;oh right, the fridge, ...because that's probably &quot;Oh right chicken, my dog So now I'm taking my ...holding a coffee mug. THIS is the most ADHD ...to this thing EVER. I plug it in, and.... ...it's an electric tea kettle, You can choose exactly ...you want the water ...based on the tea It starts out blue if you're You put the tea in the middle... And then you start, And when it's done it turns green. And so all the way ...I don't have to get up I can just see ...and that means I have a basket. The basket helps me If there's clutter on the counter... ...I can easily throw If there's too much clutter... ...then it probably needs to Which means it But one of the things ...is the Time timer. This thing is amazing... ...because it shows time visually. I can see how close I can just glance across... ...instead of waiting Which is really nice. Pens. I just... I don't need pens ...but they're there. Oh! Great! Chips clips. If I'm cooking... ...I like to have all my ...where I can easily see it. So that I'm more likely But more likely to choose If I had to go looking for each ...would just grab This way I can see what So that I can choose the And the other thing is... ...I used to have ...but then if it was dirty 'Cause I might need it again. Or like, it just And so now instead ...I just use plates. Because now like, OK, ...and that plate is gonna get washed. And then I just have ...if I need something before Using a plate instead ...really ADHD friendly for me. I'm short... ...in order to not ...I have a stool. It's this little thing, And I can drag it I would say this one is ...I don't have to go get ...out of a closet somewhere. It can just exist right It doesn't get in my way. It's small and it's Basically when you have ADHD... ...the fewer steps involved to So if I'm trying to reach that thing... and I need to go to a closet to ...and bring it back... ...that's not happening. So having the stepstool right there... ...makes it more likely that Can we talk about dishes for a second? The bane of everybody It's a tedious chore, it's something And we have a hard enough ...without not having I kind of have a rule... ..that other than nice knives ...if it can't survive the dishwasher Because I do not like When I do wash things by hand... ...gloves. The sensory thing of, like, ...or things feel gross and slimey. It's enough of a barrier that it'll keep So I have gloves that I ...and then put back. So that I don't have Welcome to the living room! Sensory things are big for me. So this carpet is really plush. It feels good to stand on. I also don't like sitting on Sometimes I want So it's nice to sit on. I can be anywhere in the world ...if I have a soft blanket over me. I don't know what it is. But it's a big thing. So I have extra Chloe loves soft blankets too. So Chloe has her own I just have a lot of extra blankets. Soft blankets everywhere ...especially here. I was thinking about ...but I tend to run into them. So I wanted something If I do have some drinks or food or ...I can just pick the whole thing up... ...and take it to the kitchen. So I'm much more likely to 'Cause otherwise I might ...and bring it to the kitchen... ...and leave the rest there. By the way, this is also my ...thanks to CoPilot. If you're interested in ...in a way that's ...one of the most ADHD friendly ...is CoPilot. CoPilot is a one-on-one ...where you connect with ...who then designs Based on whatever equipment ...and however long or wherever... ...you want to work out. I talk more about it in <i>this</i> video.... ...but I'm still using it I even created a leaderboard called ...and a bunch of people've joined. The trainer I was working with ...but I've worked with ...and they were both fantastic. One of them helped me recognize <i>[Strength training mixed with <i>[...and then stretching in the cooldown. Yeah...]</i> <i>[...You're getting stronger if Apparently the app automatically ...and mine has decreased 20 points... ...since I started working out <i>[Can you see that?]</i> Resting heart rate on different days. And I'm strong enough now ...that I get new, heavier I got new weights, I'm gonna move to And Darian, who I just ...has been incredibly supportive and motivating. <i>[You get to listen to what your body <i>[There does not have to be a goal...]</i> <i>[...other than &quot;I wanna move my body&quot;.]</i> And it really feels like every workout ...and what I want to work on. Which right now is just <i>[Can I give you a little <i>[Just like a fun little thing]</i> I love that! <i>[OK. Perfect!]</i> I'm still doing my regular ...but she added 5-minute workouts... ...that are just to help me have fun... ...and feel good at I love how flexible and I've tried a lot of things to get myself ...and this is honestly the first thing... ...that's worked for me. I'm gonna keep going with it... ...because this personal training And I'll let you know how it goes. But in the meantime, ...click my link: And get your own CoPilot ...and a 14 day free trial. I don't always meditate. ...and having a physical cue So it's not even necessarily that... ...I always use the meditation ...but it's a reminder. Looking around and being able to see ...will remind me: Big bins. All the tech clutter goes in this bin. It's not organized at all. It's a pile... ...but it's a pile in a bin. So it looks organized. It's my best hack ever. Chargers everywhere. Game controllers, Switch... ...fitbit. Oh, I have a PS4 in here. I didn't even know my [ giggles ] But otherwise, yeah, I mean. ...and like takes over the friggin' room. I'm just gonna put that back. When I wrote 'Green Time'... ...it inspired this entire room. This entire room is about So that my deliberate ...and I can just chill. So I've got the trees. ...and the textures of the hammock. I've also got the fireplace ...that I can stare at. I've got art work on the wall... ...that I can look at. And just kind of not <i>do</i> anything. ...and let my brain wander. Instead of having to make it focus... ...on what I'm trying to make it do. Welcome to my bedroom! This room isn't finished yet. But I do have some ...that are a leftover That I still use. One is color-coded I have a gray one for anything that... ...can just be thrown in the wash ...and I don't have to worry about. The pink one is things that That way I don't have to I just have to think about it When I take off a piece of clothing, Cool. Now I don't have to So this is another point I have a big fuzzy blanket And then right here, I do have a bookcase over there... ...but if I keep my books ...I will not go get So I keep them right next to it. These are the ones I'm actively reading. Another point of performance thing... ...when do I take my meds? So where are my meds? So my meds are here. Set an alarm for 15 minutes Go back to sleep, And chargers for anything My phone charger, ...I learned to put my watch This is one of the very, ...that I have used ...is the Marie Kondo method It's really helpful because I used ...stacked like this. And I would have to dig though A big part of ADHD organizing is being And whether that's clear containers... ...or having things vertically so that ...that's really helpful My bathroom is But there is one organizational Hang on. This is for my make up. I keep my make up in there ...because it makes it It's another way of So I have all my make up in here... ...I'll use it straight out of the bag... ...and then put it back in the bag. And then as a bonus... ...if I have to go somewhere in a hurry... ...I don't have to pack up It's already packed for me. I love this thing. I really hope you liked this video. Let me know if there are any particular And share your own tips What's ADHD friendly for me... ...might not be ADHD friendly Like, subscribe, And I will see Bye Brains. I'm gonna enjoy my house.