This episode of Real Engineering is brought deal. Watch until the end of the video to series, The Battle of Britain. For has flown through the atmosphere of the Sun. of the Corona. A momentous moment that has nature of our closest star, that may help The Sun's atmosphere, much like our own have the troposphere, stratosphere and mesosphere, and the corona. [1] We have a saying: hotter than the surface photosphere, is not actually that hot.It ranges at the bottom and 3700 degrees celsius (4000 That's about the same temperature as a welding can reach temperatures 5 times hotter than What's weird, is that the outermost layer much much hotter than the photosphere. The the surface of the sun, reaches half a million surface. That's like walking away from a fire and further away from it. This is a strange anomaly that makes the Parker as at first glance it's easy to dismiss upper atmosphere [4], when in reality the surface. The reason this occurs is one of and as such, is one of the primary missions on the magnetic fields and charged particles riddle. To understand the achievement of the Parker and physics of its solar mission. The first reaching the Sun. Despite the Sun's gravity system, getting close to it is not easy. In order to bring a satellite out of orbit momentum so that it falls back to Earth. The out of orbit around the Sun, except in this kilometers from the Sun, and traveling at launching from Earth will be imbued with the This means in order to achieve a tighter orbit orbital velocity around the Sun, and this when you add the energy needed to escape earth's So, let's say we want to first get our satellite Earth, this will require us to accelerate per second relative to Earth's surface. and traveling with it at 30 kilometers per From here we need to perform something called where we either change the spacecraft's its closest approach to the Sun, or it's To visit an outer planet, like Mars, we want spacecraft's orbital energy. While reaching perihelion by decreasing our orbital energy. To reach Mars from earth's orbit requires To reach Venus requires around 2.5 kilometers Where mu, this greek letter that looks like which is a product of the Sun's mass. R1 in this case Earth's distance from the sun perihelion or aphelion. If we calculate the probe's closest approach of 6.2 million kilometers. 8.5 times greater than the delta V required That's an incredibly high delta V. One beyond But, on December 8th 2018, the Parker space the Delta IV heavy, the world's second highest to the Falcon Heavy. [7] To give the probe an extra push, the Delta third stage, providing an additional 3 km/s design. [8] Yet, even with this added power, the probe To achieve it's record breaking flight, of Helios 2, the Parker Solar Probe completed an additional 2 flybys due in 2023 and 2024. This number of flybys was needed because Venus The magnitude of velocity change a planet determined by its mass. In fact, the original assist by Jupiter, which would have brought trajectory came with some issues. [9] Because Jupiter's orbit is so much further at its aphelion would have been 25 times dimmer, the spacecraft. This poses an issue when the begins to accelerate towards the Sun. The and at this size they could not retract and available. A radioisotope thermal generator the cost, weight and complexity of the spacecraft The real selling point for this radical new it would provide scientists to fulfill the original Jupiter plan the probe would have around the Sun, completing just 2 solar passes 8 year mission duration. While the new lower orbit plan would mean 150 days to complete its orbit around the hours worth of data over the probe's 24 orbits The change in plan came be with a change of shaped heat shield [10] to the familiar and constructed from 11.4 centimeter carbon foam. one of the most prolific material innovation Under a scanning electron microscope the carbon material, dominated by open space, making the heat shield fantastic insulation properties, stability. [12] Next a carbon carbon composite, which is made such as pitch or an epoxy resin. This mixture being super heated to transform the binder composite. Finally a white ceramic paint was applied of that heat away from the heat shield before of carbon beneath. From here the rest of the spacecraft, besides had to be designed to fit within the umbra, There are several instruments that bravely Like the solar probe cup, one of the many most impressive bit of technology aboard. designers had to get very creative with materials. The solar probe cup is a faraday cup, which properties of electrons and ions coming from the capability of studying solar winds and Sun. This is the cross section of the solar probe field over the grid at the cup's opening. out particles that can enter the cup, giving these charged particles strike the collecting simple device in practice, but with the temperatures below the melting point of pure iron, the The first challenge was selecting a material electric field at the entrance of the cup. resistant, while also being machinable to Tungsten was chosen, the same material used as they are capable of surviving the extremely Tungsten light filaments operate at temperatures than capable of surviving these temperatures, fine is difficult. Micron scale machining like this is not done break the grid with the force required to used to etch away material, but because tungsten capable of melting the tungsten to form the Next we needed electrical cables capable of electrical signals away from the collecting here on earth, copper and aluminum, would so these were most definitely not an option. Any conducting cables in this part of the a special alloy of 89% niobium 10% hafnium were also constructed from this exotic aerospace from outer casings with plastic, but this Space Probe, and the engineers were forced were insulated.[15] to perform what is a relatively mundane job Other portions of sensors peaking beyond the magnetic field measuring instruments hidden beyond the sunshield in order to make it's These 4 antennas are also made from niobium The solar panels were the next challenge. around the Sun, the spacecraft can fully deploy the probe begins its sweep towards the Sun can be counteracted somewhat by retracting to maintain some power to operate it's scientific Here two smaller secondary panels remain sticking water, which is pumped through the solar panels the titanium truss just below the sunshield. This truss is exceptionally light for how 22.7 kilograms (50 pounds) [17] , which even size of the truss. The engineers at NASA have to ensure this thing could use as little material weight, but also minimizes the material available spacecraft bus. Testing these systems in the heat they are Odeillo Solar Furnace is our best approximation This facility, built on a hillside in rural focus light onto one concave mirror. The facility as 3500 degrees celsius, over double the temperature like the faraday cup and sunshield were placed and exposed to the temperatures they will faraday cup also needed to be tested while the engineers need a particle accelerator encounter from solar wind. Combining a particle an option, so the researchers at the University using 4 high powered IMAX projectors to simulate faraday cup actually performs better when Much of the data we have received from these space enthusiast. Raw data that will provide of the Sun, but there is one sensor on board all enjoy. During a solar eclipse we can observe a beautiful around the Sun. These fantastic patterns are the Sun on magnetic field lines, distorted observe the streams of high energy electrons in Lagrange point 1, but we have never, until up close. As the Parker Space Probe dipped into the it began recording from its wideview imager, look like a passenger's view of a passing streaming by the probe as it dips into the doubt are giving scientists unparalleled data The Parker Space Probe has many more rendezvous of 2022, and with another 2 Venus flybys the records in 2023 and 2024, bringing us even [19] And while we are getting closer to the Sun recreating the Sun here on earth for boundless power is setting at 70%, meaning we have managed the fusion reactor started. We are still well using fusion, but ITER, a new Fusion reactor cooperation helping to fund its astronomical it one of the world's most expensive science This documentary on CuriosityStream shows generation magnetically confined plasma fusion can watch by signing up to yearly CuriosityStream This deal gets you access to incredible documentaries a month, and access to our upcoming Battle final touches on the first episode, which Here's a quick trailer for what you can An unpresented war began in the Summer of modern warfare forever. The world's first A war of attrition. A battle that was won This is the Battle of Britain. I'm incredibly excited to share the series you can get access to it for just over 1 dollar this channel and help us continue to develop You can sign up to this amazing deal by clicking you are looking for something else to watch the future of carbon taxes, or you could watch biology of carnivorous plants.