The scariest story I've ever read was written called "To Build a Fire." This story has very few hallmarks of your human character and he is, generally, very nightmares or hauntings, no guilt that ticks And yet, while reading "To Build a Fire," with any other written work. It is all of to death. He doesn't start freezing though. He starts through the Yukon back to a logging camp. and ready in the things of life." But, as him to highlight his naivete. Should he be No he should not. Could he have worn more the narration says, is that "he was not "Fifty degrees below zero meant 80 degrees cold and uncomfortable, and that was all. as a creature affected by temperature. Nor able to live only within narrow limits of Most of us, in our day-to-day lives, live and do so relatively thoughtlessly. Although build our houses and societies to avoid it, cold, isn't a common one. Maybe it's because by a calendar. Maybe it's because we can layers!". Maybe it's because, unlike spiders, or the of us have really experienced the cold. Few body and mind and spirit. The cold magnifies It does not forgive mistakes. In "To Build a Fire," the air is colder below, colder than 70. The man's mouth is tobacco juice from the chew in his cheek forms his nose begin to freeze, although this doesn't Many short stories, particularly horror ones, until the twist, the last paragraph or even going on. That's not the case in "To Build that this man is going to die. The paralyzing out where, exactly, it becomes inevitable. even started." There was no way this man Yukon in 100 degrees of frost. But the arc it's a horrible series of dominos that fall, The first domino, probably, is the man plunging riverbed. He had been carefully walking along water, it didn't matter. But a frozen leg a fire, and the man can. He sits down with way you need to build a fire, growing slowly size sticks. Feeling begins to return to the The way London describes the feeling leaving not inaccurate. He says that the blood of withdrew from his digits, because the blood from the freeze. In reality, your hands will seconds. In these situations of extreme cold, than 30 degrees, from your body's typical fall, your blood fleeing the cold, the longer In "To Build a Fire," the second domino and feet. His fire, his savior, becomes his the branches of the tree above him. The tree branches, falling to the forest floor. It kindling, smothering the flames instantly. first time in the story where the man realizes that the fire being snuffed was "like hearing But he continues to fight. He can build another more dry grass and sticks, although he has has more bark to use for kindling in his pocket, are falling faster now. He tries to hold the it into the snow. He tries again and again effort he spills everything left in the box, all at once. 70 matches blaze to life in his he can faintly feel them burning the flesh he manages to light another fire- for almost the pile and his hands, shaking uncontrollably, It's all over by this point, and yet it kill the dog, his only companion, he could fire, but he doesn't have the strength. does, blindly, what feels like miles but was strangely warm, and pictures himself among falls asleep. Fear of the cold is almost always paired with famous horror fiction entombs its characters cold acting as a barrier between them and Jack Torrance and his family go to live at to do some upkeep on the premises and enjoy cold closes in, the snow walling off the hotel of the Overlook Hotel instead externalizes increasingly deranged Jack, Wendy and Danny They are trapped by the cold just as they're Within The Shining, there's also the unspoken the hotel itself, is designed for this kind the Overlook cannot survive the season by the rocky mountains, the infrastructure would adds to the feeling that everything here somehow the Overlook loses the battle, reduced to In the film, however, the cold deals a more preserved on the premises, rooted by the ice In John Carpenter's "The Thing," and frozen desert of the Antarctic similarly serves of civilization. Living in a research base frozen body of an alien (or find another research They recover its frozen body and examine it, from its frozen slumber, starts to slaughter Although the titular "thing" is an abomination, they simply have no other choice. The alien In the story, even before the creature is "white death. Death of a needlefingered from any warm thing." The Antarctic is alien to the humans too, than any other landscape on Earth. Externalized every struggle exacerbated because of the night. But in both "The Shining" and "The between pro and antagonist. Jack freezes within able to combat the ice. In "The Thing," the rest of humanity; although every man at one method or another, the alien is trapped Nothing, man or beast, survives that cold But that doesn't stop them from trying. Perhaps the most famous story of real-life Byrd, an American explorer in the early 20th for several Antarctic experiments and achievements, one the first two people to fly over the south exploration laid the groundwork for much of not the primary reason why Richard Byrd is of the Antarctic winter, he lived alone, in everything for 100 miles tried to murder him. Byrd's stated purpose for spending the winter and the reason he claimed to go alone was and two might just end up annoying each other of the expedition, the streak of pride that Byrd is a man who understands the value of probably be frustrated that I had to qualify South Pole. And so, for reasons explicit and Byrd and his team essentially buried a shack and other supplies. And then his team left, The first part of Byrd's stay in the cold measurements every day, he creates little and emergency supplies, he goes on walks, living in a fundamentally inhospitable environment, would. However, he knows this accord with he writes: "Relax once in the polar regions, and the so painstakingly erected about yourself may I don't think Byrd would ever say he relaxed, to crumble. Perhaps the single most dramatic a routine wind speed reading. He opens the a solid wall of snow, white death. He writes in my eyes, stinging like BB shot." He writes you are reduced to a crawling thing on the will so quickly isolate a man." He steps his sense of surroundings and in an instant, There's another man who lived alone in the slightly more bizarre. Christopher Knight Maine, without permanent shelter and almost 27 years. He stayed in a camp built in a near-invisible from nearby houses, he lived there for almost once- a startled "hi" as he encountered to be alone, and so paranoid of his camp being He survived 27 winters of Maine outside without singleminded determination not to die. Winters in Maine, though not Antarctic-cold, somehow, Knight's strategy for survival Far from hibernating, he feared that the winters he was asleep during the coldest hours, he freezes Knight forced himself awake at 2am until daybreak. Sleep was the enemy, relaxation the cold, he'd be lost. Richard Byrd didn't die when the door to that he left outside, managed to brace himself handle under the grip of the door and strained reflected that there were actually harder more minutes out in the cold and his senses a desensitization that makes dying seem easy. The closest Byrd came to dying was not easy to death. Instead, it started slowly- he noted depressed, though nothing particular seemed his ability to do simple tasks diminishes, so hard he is completely unable to move. His properly. Carbon monoxide from the burning stream of poison, gradually robbing Byrd of winter, he faces an impossible choice: continue more bedridden every day, or turn off the only source of heat in his world. When Christopher Knight, the hermit, was as a particularly brutal winter, he says he saw who appeared in his camp. He was out of food, his bed. He recognizes now that lady death fevered vision, but he isn't entirely sure. thinks about walking into the woods, sitting him. While Byrd lay, unable to move, in his shack how far the frost crept up the walls. The his shack. His single room was engulfed by "And all of them were agonizing." Byrd's original plans were to stay 8 months even facing near-certain death, he refused doing. Like the entire expedition, this was He feared that those who tried to reach him not allow himself to admit just how dire things men he was corresponding with noticed the months, it was nearly unintelligible. Dots Richard Byrd was to death. After 5 months, Both men almost died in their self-imposed to that white death. And yet, in that time, close to euphoria. Richard Byrd writes rapturously serpentine folds, what he feels is its implicit the dark Antarctic night as somehow a representation when he feels the cosmos are telling him what left him "with the tingling feeling that men." For Christopher Knight, a man who than almost anyone else, the deep freeze of of divine pause, the only time of the year animals, or even the rustling of the leaves. hideout, it seemed that the memory of winters in the woods,&quot; Knight said, &quot;is somewhere most is stillness.&quot; Cold can be an individual antagonist, needlefingered, society-level threat. Rare are the people much more often, the cold comes to us. You don't have to think back far for an winter storms hit the US and many areas saw most infamously of all, had an almost complete coldest period in living memory. But it was years earlier, a series of blizzards caused the state. Recommendations made by experts catastrophes were subsequently ignored by it happened again. Now, to someone who lives further north, the seem that cold. It almost never dipped below be anything unusual in Minnesota or Maine. on a societal level has little to do with matters much less than the resources a place is instead a reminder that the cold will find force open the cracks that can otherwise be from simple hypothermia but the carbon monoxide heaters, or even fires that spread from never-before-used blackened, people were forced close together a global pandemic. Much like Covid, the cold that were always present- and exposes the those vulnerabilities. And when I look at Texas, I don't see a Summers are going to keep getting hotter and blocks that make up our society are fundamentally staring down the barrel of. But you gotta admit- it makes a great story! This is the basis for Bong Joon Ho's "Snowpiercer," on by climate change. It's also the background Tomorrow, my personal favorite big disaster It's also the context for the survival sim "what if SimCity, but with frostbite-based alternate history 19th century in which an of Europe, leaving scant few wandering bands that maybe, if you plan things exactly right, temperature. But Frostpunk is not, at least initially, in civil engineering. Although the game can with it were far more like Jack London's one after another. Except in this case, it's case, I didn't even realize they were falling Managing your city is a challenge of managing juggling act of making sure you have enough don't have to sleep unsheltered, enough and quickly get back to work. For me, it was really proud of the amount of wood I had stockpiled, been totally used up. At multiple points, labor force into a coal-gathering machine, if we ran out of coal to keep the heat on, matter. My adherence to a "moral" city, children to work, meant that we were constantly Playing Frostpunk feels like living out the a mistake as simple as dropping a match in out to hundreds. Early on, I had a team of offered me a choice: should we salvage a modest the potential of reactivating it later? Or seize everything now and just hope for another in the future? I generally pride myself on my delayed gratification, for a larger prize in the future. But I looked with the immediate gains- 200 pieces of coal, Later in the game, when I had my generator pieces of coal in a matter of seconds, I thought plummeted further and further below zero, over hours before without even thinking. As forsaking all other resources and every other white death, I had a sudden flashback to a with me for probably two decades now. It is, series by Laura Ingalls Wilder. In "On the Banks of Plum Creek," Ma and got to bring the wood inside before he does, He tells his daughters a story about some and it was too cold to go out in the blizzard. kids ran out of wood completely. They destroyed furniture in the house in a desperate attempt though- when their parents finally got home, stiff." This story causes a sort of mania about freezing in their house that they bring much to the bemusement of Pa. The Little House series often spoke frankly midwest, but I don't remember anything else lines, I could clearly picture the kids' their furniture didn't provide enough fuel researching this video that I learned Wilder's her non-fiction autobiography, is even more setup remains the same- kids at home, while But the simple "froze stark stiff" is attempted to leave the house after their stovepipe nearby- three were dead, frozen completely. and managed to keep the youngest, a baby, the baby was barely chilled, the 12 year old's as they thawed her arms and eventually amputated The version of the story I knew, the one that the more child friendly telling. I can't hardly the only time Wilder brought up the her family ever faced, its presence always in what are, ostensibly, children's books. family are snowed in for months, she wrote: There were no more lessons. There was nothing coarse brown bread and winds blowing. The waiting sometimes, then pouncing, shaking in rage...she did not ever feel awake. She knew she was dull and stupid but she could Tales of the cold are almost always made of mixed with tiny victories against the immovable in the midst of the blizzard, generator upgrades In The Long Dark, a survival game set in an compared to other games in the genre. There's farms to fully automate, or escape vehicles sewing together a slightly warmer coat, finding is a pure survival game. Although there are and hunger you'll be fighting for the majority different from the beginning. Unlike most enemies in video games, or antagonists You can merely survive it. The cold is a bizarre force though, because preserves- not just in food but in people. the pseudoscientific idea that if you freeze it far in the future. Although cryonics are our current technology- which I guess is the are not. Far from our popular sayings related and the like- medical wisdom actually goes dead until you're warm and dead." Cardiac arrest generally means death in less time can be multiplied, with successful resuscitations Professor Popsicle has said "We've learned you shouldn't try to save someone." The mythic quality- the same force can maintain body locked to the same point of Everest for that 5,000 years later, we can tell what he level, you have to admire the cold; it is at what it does. It is, of course, harder to appreciate when story of the cold, one so absurd I have to in the early 20th century. Somervell was on but as the team climbed higher and higher coughing fits. Somervell eventually coughed throat- he actually begins to choke, he can't to die and then finally manages to hack the was a piece of his own larynx, frostbitten by the way- made it back down the mountain, bit of himself behind. Almost 90 years after Somervell's adventure, a trip to Grayson Highlands, Virginia with to hike in, camp a couple nights, explore is gorgeous by the way- most of the mountains long sections where you can walk along clear beautiful overlooks, it's one of my favorite We arrived around noon and started to walk. the activity of the ascent keeping us warm. gusted hard enough to almost knock us over. started to drop- I do know sundown would have gusts started to cut straight through the gloves didn't seem to retain any heat at Looking back, I don't think it was that much below 15. But in real terms, I was simply a sunny fall hike in a southern state, not changes and a constantly howling wind. To for that day told me "that it was cold and lead [me] to consider [my] weaknesses as a I remember getting to our campsite, reaching to determine if what my numb fingers were poles that would form the frame. I dumped to pick up the poles to snap them together, 12 years out, I couldn't tell you if the brain had also somehow been deadened. What increasingly frustrated and alarmed that I give myself shelter. Within minutes, my dad- who was also on the his gloves, snapped the poles together and fell inside, got in my sleeping bag at what went to sleep. I half remember being woken gave me some food warmed by a camp stove and back, I think about Christopher Knight, who of the night, stubbornly paced to keep his every test the cold threw at me. I am possibly that is the closest I have ever felt to death. The next morning we all got up, a little shaken had been. We first hesitantly, then enthusiastically, the only one who had a bad time. There are many places on Earth with "permafrost," the surface, one that is, theoretically, permanent. the dead plants and organisms on that layer their bodies locked beneath the ground. But assumed a level of stability we denied the been thawing, and with it resurface startling In Spitsbergen, an island in Norway, human A 1600s whaling graveyard, preserved in the exhume the bodies it kept hidden. Humans, the earth. In previous years, this permafrost bodies remain permanently frozen, but so too them. Now, with a steadily climbing global A small scale plague of viral anthrax broke frozen corpses of 75-year old reindeer from from a century ago still held the full sequence the northernmost town in the world, there's die." In reality, this refers to burial. to freeze instead of decomposing, potentially them on archaeologists centuries from now. And while that's a noble effort, the deadliest in the permafrost: carbon. When functioning animals, even humans, from releasing their keeps the remains, and the carbon they carry. too, billions of tons of it, that in turn in the first place, accelerating the heating Carpenter's "The Thing," the cold, left long as necessary. Unlike The Thing, once they cannot be confined. No matter where we permafrost. It's little surprise that the coldest naturally in Antarctica. It's either -128 or -135, measurements. In any case, the continent fulfills inferno of ice. The Earth's underworld." The coldest naturally occurring place in space, It's part of the constellation "Centaurus," to the expelling of ultracold gas from a dying kelvin, or 1 degree above absolute zero- that's than half the temperature of the vacuum of than 2 degrees kelvin, thanks to background But the absolute coldest place in the universe- anywhere has ever been, ever- is back on Earth. scientists have pushed temperatures lower. space, but we continue to go colder, far far of a degree of absolute zero. Like the speed able to get unbelievably close to, but never Cold itself, in terms of physics, is defined of particles. The lower the temperature, the theoretical, impossible, object at absolute particle within the object would be at rest. Knight was correct from a physics standpoint in between quiet and solitude. What I miss It will take until the end of the universe in a lab on Earth. When every star has gone the radiation from the big bang fizzles away, same temperature, some impossibly small decimal. as anything will ever get. We, as humans, are inherently fallible. We matches that singe and fall from our fingertips, And fortunately for our survival, we are generally a singed finger, is a setback, not a catastrophe. The cold will strip that insulation bare, desperate a situation really is. The cold our mistakes. But to depict the cold as malicious, is not an anthropocentric force. It doesn't us. It was present before anything existed. It will remain after everything is done.