Questioner: When we refer to higher dimension, From evolutionary point of vew, human beings What is exactly after that? So, what exactly it means, from this reference after this- is it something in some other What exactly is it? And are there really levels of higher dimension? Because the evolution is progressing, so if to it? Sadhguru: On this planet don't think you are the most sophisticated on this planet. Sadhguru: In your experience of life, do you find all human beings at the same level of evolution? I'm asking you without prejudice? With all due respect to every human being do you find every human being at the same Nobody has a tail though - that they have passed but there're many who look more complete A whole lot of them would look more complete because they're always Yes or no? You drive on the street and see. In this country it's better though the traffic is such a mess, though driving in India is probably the most But I see in other countries the drivers driving their dream cars are on smallest thing, they are in a rage. Actually that is not so much here at least In North India we know road rages, in South it's not like that. We crash into each other, we sit down and discuss and maybe we'll settle our son's wedding or daughter's wedding right there We believe this is our fate we crashed together we met with a bang. You don't see much rage on southern Indian but North India it happens but in other countries I see the rage is so though traffic is far more disciplined, very rarely anybody gets into your way here every moment somebody is getting in your Everybody, is you know trying to earn that by attempting they're all testing their horoscope. Their astrologer has told them you will live so they're testing it today whether it's true or not It's ...it's... A whole lot of things happening. So in spite of all this horoscope testing, you don't find much rage. So people who are in such a state of rage if you gave them claws and horns, it would be more suitable, isn't it, for their state of mind and emotion? They actually want to claw somebody but they don't have the claws. The evolutionary process should be one day they'll get the claws So you don't find all of them the same level of evolution because it's a threshold that we have crossed, that doesn't mean that's the end of it. Because the significance of being human is we are not doing anything very different from what the other creatures are doing- same damn things. We are born, they are born just like that. Their mother was... mothers delivered them, our mothers delivered us. Their mothers were more efficient with delivery, our mothers struggled, okay. Yes Because they delivered in hundreds our mother to deliver one, she struggled so They eat, we eat. They sleep, we sleep. They reproduce, we may reproduce. They die, we die. The only thing is we can do all this we can conduct all these very simple aspects So in a day from the moment - I'll leave that also needs to be considered but we will leave that from the moment you come awake till the moment how many moments and how many actions and how many thoughts and how many emotions or how much percentage of it do you conduct consciously this will determine the state of your evolution If you conduct it consciously you will do it in a certain way. If you're going about compulsively you will look like any other creature. Yes. You will look like just any other creature, not any different, once you do things compulsively. Only when you conduct it consciously, you seem to be on the peak of evolution on not otherwise. So you can gauge by yourself I don't to pass I don't want to pass a judgment on anybody from the moment you come awake till the time fall asleep how much percentage of time are you conducting your body, your mind, your your energy and your actions consciously? If you are less than one percent, you know there's a lot of work to do. And I would tell you, the if I have to speak frankly more than ninety percent is less than one less than... well below one percent more than ninety percent of the people. Those ten percent who do little more than suddenly they look like such graceful beings. Just from tomorrow morning you want to do it from tomorrow morning, or now? From this moment till you fall asleep, just see how much of you can you conduct consciously, all aspects of you - your body, your actions, your mind, your thoughts, your energies, everything to what extent can you conduct it consciously. You see, if you conduct this consciously for by tomorrow morning people will bow down to without knowing why they're doing. So that's evolution and it's something you can do. If you just see "it's me," not something you will evolve because once you become human you have enough awareness and consciousness When you were a monkey you did not decide "I'll become human being." Nature just pushed you on but now you're conscious enough to decide "I want to evolve from where I am to whatever Just... Just try, just maintain five minutes manage your life consciously you will see tomorrow morning how you will you'll be shining, believe me and unconscious? what is in your awareness is conscious we will come. right now you're awake so you're aware of the light, the air and this that around you, and the people around you suppose you fall asleep suddenly you become unaware of all these right now you're aware who is sitting next to you now I'm talking to you, you become unaware isn't it? so what you're aware of, what you're unaware is varying the sphere and the area of your awareness you're not always aware to the same extent whether it's about the outside or the inside you're not always aware to the same extent when we talk awareness we are not talking about becoming more and that is only for survival to the extent we must be aware of the outside...See, if you take the animals for example your dog first of all why dog entered your life, today but initially why dog entered your life is, more aware than you about the outside, isn't if you fall asleep he still keeps hearing smelling and tasting and everything around that's why you keep the dog at home, isn't today maybe for companionship, because but otherwise fundamentally dog came into outside than you are, isn't it? he can see things and smell things thats the reason why he but we are not talking about that kind of awareness you being aware of yourself so how much of you is in your awareness right if you look at it, you will see very so we have to deepen this process if awareness has to grow in one way if you look at it what you call as myself is a certain Yes? If your awareness disappears, you right now you're alive. How do you know? Simply because you're aware. Yes? so in one way what you call as myself is a certain level of awareness but that awareness is happening in a minimal way we want to extend this to every who I am becomes a completely conscious process how to do it? awareness has become a small thing simply because it's lost in these two heaps the heap of food that you gathered as body and the heap of impressions that you gathered now if you separate it a little bit suddenly awareness is in full flow because its lost in this it is like there is a light bulb now if you cover it with lot of cloth still the light is burning but light doesn't see, now one thing is to crank up the voltage so that light becomes more intense but the that's covering it, isn't it? so we will do both one thing is to clear it up another thing is to crank up the voltage if these two things are done together, then you will see you'll see more of yourself than ever before