Star Media Babich-design THE GREAT PEOPLE'S HOLY WAR THE GREAT PATRIOTIC WAR OPERATION BAGRATION Late at night, a new tank unit arrived Apart from T-34s, covered with trampoline The plans of the Soviet troops were kept in the strictest secret. The secret of the cargo at a training firing range. The T-34s were pushing The land troops nicknamed They rode along minefields with their heavy rollers and infantry moving behind them. Two regiments of such engineer tanks by the guard troops General Konstantin Rokossovskiy He was saving the &quot;trawlers&quot; the plans of which he kept secret. It could seem that the Soviet troops were preparing for defense. At night, movements in one direction, were seen from the air. Everything was done to persuade the enemy that the neighboring area while the offensive was prepared In a letter to Churchill of June 6, 1944, on the day when the British Stalin wrote: stipulated by our agreement will begin in mid-June in one He didn't disclose even what area was going to become &quot;important&quot;. Meanwhile, In France, of the British and American troops The Army Group North retreated The Army Group South left the Crimea. Only the positions seemed stabile to the Germans. At that part of the front, the German forming the so-called Belorussian Balcony. The attempt of the Soviet troops to attack by Vitebsk and Orsha in winter failed. The Belorussian Balcony was holding on. The summer was approaching, didn't feel confident. When will the Russians Where shall they pull their tank army After the successful actions on the Right-Bank Ukraine, the Germans supposed the Red Army would attack there too. Therefore, tanks and aviation, Reference. Out of 5,000 tanks on the Eastern Front, the German commandment In Ukraine, there were seven groups Only two remained in Belorussia. The Northern Ukraine Group was headed who was considered an expert The Army Group Center whom Hitler valued The reinforcement of the German troops of the General Headquarters There, in the Belorussian woods, and bitterest defeats Now, The newly planned operation The plan worked out stipulated a row of attacks. First, the troops had to encircle and Bobruisk, and then move towards Minsk and cut the retreat ways In that way, to crush The Red Army Besides, that ambitious plan demanded The commander Konstantin Rokossovskiy at the right wing of the front at Bobruisk and Sluts. At that, each of the strikes The tactics he offered in accordance with which might be the main one Konstantin Rokossovskiy, and the Civil war, A man of rare courage, In the 30-ies, In 1937, he was arrested. Under the investigation, he didn't give false evidence After his release in 1940, In the beginning of the war, then of an army. Since 1942, Rokossovskiy had to insist during the meetings on May 22 and 23. The meetings were quite dramatic. His offer to deliver were sharply criticized. Rokossovskiy recalled: &quot;Twice, and think the suggestion After each of such breaks, I had to insist In the end, Stalin said: &quot;Insistence of the commander that he thought the plan It is a reliable guarantee of success&quot;. Rokossovskiy's suggestion was accepted. In 1944, the Tank Army was holding positions by Vitebsk. By that time, and consisted solely of infantry. Georg Reinhardt started the war During the offensive at Moscow, on his post of a commander He led his tanks to the Krasnaya Polyana in 15 km from the capital of the USSR. The Army Group Center included four armies amounting to about 1 mln people in total. None of the previous large-scale was prepared so thoroughly If the enemy had disclosed it would immediately transfer from Ukraine to Belorussia. In the boggy and woody area, it would be fatal for the Red Army. For that reason, under conditions of complete secrecy. The troops were only transferred at night, sticking Trucks drove with switched-off lights. White marks were set along roads and back parts of the trucks Absolutely no overtaking was allowed. The troops were only transferred With the first rays of dawn, the remainder Only cars with special passes and there were no more than Specially allotted planes by flying over the areas If a pilot noticed the location A pennant meant that the positions and the commanders had to exercise Strict secrecy was introduced No more than two to three people which were then written down by hand and reported to the General Headquarters A decision was taken not to use tank units in the operation For Reinhardt, an ex-tankman himself, their appearance The Red Army temporarily interrupted Later, the German historian Hintze wrote: &quot;Contrary to their habit, Meanwhile, the Soviet soldiers of the planned offensive. The infantrymen were learning to swim, to walk in marshes, and to find their way in the woods. They made a huge quantity special skies for bogs in the muddy forests of Belorussia. To that end, they were making buck-rakes, rafts and boats for machine guns, They were collecting the stock of logs The miners and tankmen special roads in the bogs for the tanks. The volume of railway deliveries Reference. At the order of the General Headquarters, the troops To deliver 1,300 railway wagons were needed. All in all, 400,000 tons of ammunition, over 500,000 of food and supplies On average, up to 100 trains It was impossible completely secret from the enemy. However, the Wehrmacht failed to guess Three days before the Soviet offensive, the commander of the Army Group Center Meanwhile, his million-strong group of four Soviet fronts They were supported by 5,200 tanks and self-propelled machines Miners were entrusted with a special task at the final preparation stage There were lots of minefields between the positions made by both sides During the last two nights the Soviet miners The main element of any mine's mechanism The explosion is triggered by pressure. The defusing consists of finding a mine, unscrewing the detonation fuse, digging the defused mine and removing to a safe place. In that case, however, the defusing If the Germans noticed the Soviet miners, they would disclose the plans Defusing of mines could mean only one thing - That's why the Soviet miners They only unscrewed the detonation fuses. Mines with tripwires installed in spring were the hardest to defuse. The detonation fuse of such a mine to a thin wire Grass that grew tall over the summer The soldiers had to feel every centimeter to find the tripwire as they were crawling out The slightest carelessness could lead in such a case, would be disclosed. Usually, only narrow paths which the tanks and the infantry However, in the smoke of a battle making the tanks lose their way Now, the problem was solved radically. The front line In the course of two short summer nights, Now, only the minefields and deep inside of the defense lines were standing in the way They were to be defused by the new tanks - According to the plan the start of Operation Bagration to the anniversary However, due to delays connected and concentration of the troops, the operation started on June 23, 1944. Three years after the start of the war, by Vitebsk with sending fighting patrols. Units of the First Baltic burst in the first trenches The battles continued and then the fighting patrols engaged Aviation bombs showered at the German positions. Infantry and tanks moved at the enemy. The main blow of the IL-2 fighter planes but at the German artillery The howitzer batteries firing were scary and dangerous enemies capable of stopping At the same time, mountains of ammunition were extremely vulnerable The Soviet storm planes and fired at the cannon personnel from cannons and machine guns, and bombs and missiles of IL-2 The IL-2, the storm plane was the most mass-produced battle aircraft All significant elements When the plane was attacking on flyby, the frowns of the landscape of the anti-aircraft cannons, and armor - from the fire of the enemy infantry. However, low speed and bad maneuverability to the attacks In the second half of the war, were only flying out However, on June 23 of 1944, the commandment of the Army Group Center so they couldn't repulse The Ils could act freely, and often without the support of the fighters. In the second half of the war, Hitler according to which had to defend large road junctions Vitebsk was to become General Holwitzer's Corps General of Tank Troops Reinhardt in the evening and suggested withdrawing the troops However, Field Marshal Busch to return to the front &quot;to hold on at any cost&quot;. On the third day of the battle, met on the bank of the Western Dvina. The Vitebsk group Only in the evening did Hitler permit ordering to leave one division However, to break out of the cauldron failed. The Germans only managed to reach woods when a tight circle closed up around them. Under the strikes of planes and artillery, After five days of battles for Vitebsk, About 17,000 people surrendered including Holwitzer The division left in Vitebsk The Soviet units burst into the city after seizing a bridge In the evening, tried to break through but soon The offensive of Rokossovskiy's First Belorussian Front by Bobruisk There, the Soviets attacked by Rogachyov and a bit to the south, by Parichi. On June 24 Zhukov, acting went to the observation point Gorbatov was to be supported The bombers of the long-range aviation To support the advance by Parichi, smaller forces were allotted - 900 planes. Rokossovskiy himself stayed There, by Parichi, Rokossovskiy recalled: &quot;When leaving, that he and Gorbatov and help pull my troops out of the bogs&quot;. The strike of the heavy bombers To guide the pilots, trucks with switched-on lights They were shining to the east. Their lights weren't visible for the enemy In addition to that, Gorbatov remembered: &quot;When complete darkness fell, we first heard the roaring sound flying to strike fire positions Later, They flew in waves. Soon, we saw hundreds of fiery fountains At dawn, The smoke from the bombs when artillery and Katyushas attacked A few minutes before the end the trawlers tanks drove out The companies of engineer tanks The mines exploded and threw rollers Soon, wide corridors for tanks, self-propelled machines and infantry were made in the German minefields. However, despite a powerful strike the offensive by Rogachyov was unfolding slower The German defense on the bridgehead turned out to be quite strong. On the contrary, by Parichi Rokossovsky on the very first day of the offensive. The cavalry and mechanized group of Pliyev and a tank corps were sent into that gap. Rokossovskiy's plan to deliver two It so happened that he was the one The only tank division first sent to repulse the offensive had to urgently redirect its tanks after his successful advance. In the course of the hasty march the German tanks began to break. Meanwhile, Rokossovskiy widened the gap. It was now impossible to stop him The German defense by Rogachyov On the fourth day of the offensive, the Soviet troops completely encircled in two more days, Over 20,000 of the German soldiers Minsk became the next target The decisive part in liberating was to be played The original plan along the Smolensk-Minsk Highway. However, they failed to break The commander Chernyakhovskiy decided to use About 500 of tanks of Rotmistrov came there, During the first two days, the army and continued its movement to Borisov Meanwhile, the German commandment Field Marshal Busch was demoted. Model replaced him at the position The &quot;genius of defense&quot; was summoned The troops of three Soviet fronts The Germans began to retreat trying to avoid the imminent cauldron. However, the Soviets had already seized The enemy only controlled one bridge - Thousands of German cars, carts and columns of infantry One of the participants of those events &quot;Not far away from the bridge, despicable scenes could be observed. Carts and cars Everybody wanted Fights were breaking out, The field gendarmes were helpless&quot;. The Soviet aviation hovered Storm IL-2 planes were ruling in the air showering the retreating columns The events of the summer closely resembled the summer of 1941. However, the roles reversed - the Germans were now running They were the ones Their divisions and corps To save infantry that was trying the commandment of the Wehrmacht They were basing striking at the strategic objects They were now used to restrain the advance However, day attacks of heavy aircraft when the Soviet aviation led to huge losses By the end German tank divisions began to arrive The German Fifth Tank Division blocked the way of Rotmistrov's tank army. In some areas of the front, of tank ambushes successfully tested Struggles with those tanks, delayed the advance Reference. In July of 1944, didn't have a single new T-34-85 tank. Those machines, armed with 85-mm cannons, were able to fight the Tigers However, his army only received The tank battles raged for about two days. The Soviet troops On the other hand, with just 18 tanks out of 159. The capital of the Soviet Belorussia, announced to be the &quot;fortress-city&quot; was only defended by about 2,000 people. The Tigers and Panthers but they couldn't create At dawn of July 3, the tanks burst into Minsk from the north around the remainders The troops of the Second Belorussian Front in front of them, tightening the ring It took the Soviet troops a week the German troops by Minsk. Among 35,000 of prisoners, including three commanders of the corps In two weeks of battles, seven out of nine army corps, 17 divisions The losses of the German army including about 150,000 people The German tank divisions posed a serious threat. However, after the Soviets crushed all the tanks could do was delay The offensive began on June 23 after reaching the Vistula, and the Baltic Sea shore. The troops of the four fronts were advancing along the front and covered 550-600 km The outcome of the Red Army's offensive exceeded the boldest expectations The German Army Group Center After Operation Bagration, Stalin began to address Rokossovskiy Konstantin Konstantinovitch. Before that, Marshal Boris Shaposhnikov. The success in Belorussia that some foreign mass media Therefore, and demonstrate its success in a very unconventional way. The Big Waltz Operation was planned, named so after a popular movie. In strict secrecy, echelons began Not far from the center of the city, the Moscow Hippodrome At last, the German prisoners-of-war The residents of Moscow poured out The march was headed by 19 German Generals A 1,000-strong group of officers followed. After then, Some of them had sandals made out of car tires instead of boots. For them, the war was over. Over 57,000 of the German prisoners-of-war Cavalrymen from a division named after Dzerzhinsky Water carts followed them washing the traces of Fascism The unusual march in the center both on the Soviet people It became evident would inevitably bring victory The crush of the Army Group Center for the Red Army to attack in Poland, Bagramyan's First Baltic Front and Chernyakovskiy's were advancing in the Baltic States. On July 8, entered the suburbs of Vilnius. The following day, the city was encircled. The struggle for the city was fierce. However, in five days the garrison The Third Guard Mechanized Corps it covered 70 km and came out to Siauliai. In the morning of July 31, the commander radioed to the headquarters of the Corps: &quot;We're on the shore of the Gulf of Riga&quot;. That short report meant was cut off the rest of the forces. The report on the breakthrough that the headquarters to report on the positions Soon, the commandment of the Tank Brigade &quot;Fill three bottles with sea water. The commander shall sign the bottles that the sample was taken The bottles with water are to be sent The order was executed. A plane brought bottles with sea water and from there - to Moscow, Soon, those bottles were placed as a material proof that the tankmen The success of Operation Bagration in the Baltic states radically. Soon, the Soviet troops The units of Lieutenant General Parn were honored with a task The mobile group that he had formed covered about 100 km in one day, burst in Tallinn and on September 22, The Army Group North blocked remained the only German group Despite repeated requests and the head Hitler refused to permit the evacuation The Soviet soldiers jokingly called in Courland To the end of the war, it barely The Army Group Courland in two days after Germany's capitulation. The Soviet troops came out The main forces of the Army Group Center to Konigsberg, The German troops were replenished It was dangerous for the Soviet troops to advance westwards The Germans could strike at the flank For a long siege of the Eastern Prussia, plus, it wouldn't solve The Soviet commandment took a decision with a blow from Warsaw after crushing the Eastern-Pomeranian Then, they planned to destroy It was winter of 1945. The second Belorussian Front was entrusted with a task On January 12, and the First Ukrainian Fronts began On January 14, when Rokossovskiy's troops weather suddenly deteriorated. Rokossovskiy recalled: &quot;It was dawn but we could see nothing. Fog and wet snow shielded everything The weather is terrible, and the weathermen don't promise I ordered to cancel all air raids&quot;. Aviation was land bound, The Soviet infantry During the first day of the battles, instead of 10-12 that had been planned. The Germans reinforced their defense and the Sturmgeschutz The commander of the Army Group Center to stop the Soviet offensive However, that he had in his reserve behind the Vistula Reinhardt used only one tank division - out of the reserve corps. In answer, Rokossovsky threw 500 tanks In 1945, T-34-85 became the main tank It was developed in 1943 using construction elements That tank had a spacious three-man tower and a powerful 85-mm cannon. The tank crew increased to five people. In the course of its production about 80,000 of such tanks were made. The tank was officially withdrawn in 1993. However, some countries still keep it After crushing the enemy tank reserves, Rokossovskiy moved That blow created a real chaos Reinhardt turned to Hitler: My Fuehrer! that the Russian tank army If it breaks through, where there are no troops at all&quot;. The commander of the Army Group Center Only in nine days after the battle began, However, Reinhardt still failed The Soviet tanks came out and the Eastern Prussia From the east, Chernyakhovskiy's came out to Konigsberg. The Army Group Center on the Samland Peninsula, Bad weather in the Eastern Prussia for the complete defeat That's why a large and still gathered in Konigsberg and on the coast. A pause was made for a couple of weeks. On February 18, 1945 the commander Army General Chernyakhovskiy in the suburb of the Melhsack and died later that day. Marshal Vasilevskiy of the Soviet troops in the Eastern Prussia. Vasilevskiy Alexander Mikhaylovitch, one of the most talented war leaders. Being a commander took part in development and execution on the Soviet-German Front. Apart from heading he was the deputy After Zhukov, he became instituted in 1943. Twice the Hero of the Soviet Union. The Prussian group was destroyed in parts. Less than in ten days, the cauldron In April, it was Konigsberg's turn. Later, the German units Danzig Konigsberg Pillau Vistula Oder Gdinya The fight for the Eastern Prussia Its success was preconditioned Marshal Vasilevskiy recalled: &quot;The Eastern Prussian Operation in terms of expenditure of the ammunition. Two fronts spent Under the artillery fire, and Konigsberg's forts fell. On the fourth day the commandant of the fortress About 92,000 people The Samland Group resisted However, in two weeks It was April. Marshal Zhukov was already To the south, battles were already raging The troops of the Second were driving the elite SS divisions That offensive thanks to the successful execution However, it all began in 1943, when the Soviet troops were just preparing to cross the Dnieper and liberate Kiev. In 1943, the Soviet soldiers ahead of them - the Battle for Ukraine.