- The Feds are investigating one of the largest drug - In June, 2019, news in the port of Philadelphia. 20 tons of drugs in a single seizure. - Authorities say the drugs of more than 1 billion dollars. - This was not like just any Yes, drugs are smuggled on but this one was extraordinary It was not only the it was also the level of - This wasn't just happening on one ship. The cartel's penetration was so deep that they on multiple ships with that were going to Europe. It really has created this kind of gangland feel that overlays - The fact that there's the that's at the center of this, that makes it a very sensitive topic and also one that could have ramifications for the wider shipping industry. There is this really interesting and problematic tension just in the nature of Most people don't give a second thought to the way that their goods arrive. It all arrives on these that are sailing around the world. - 90% of global trade is conducted 14 dollars trillion of goods - The shipping industry is of globalization, of a global economy. What that means is that and on shipping companies to ensure that global trade runs smoothly and that it runs quickly. Every time a container is opened, - It also prevents security and others from really digging in and examining the containers as they move through this system. - The ports of Northern Europe, and Rotterdam in the Netherlands have long been central to global trade dating all the way back to the spice trade hundreds of years ago. As a result, the infrastructure has been increasingly As the market for cocaine it only makes sense to be shipping them through these two ports in the north. That gives the traffickers an opportunity to not necessarily service the markets in the Netherlands or in and even down into We visited one of these law where they scan cargo that they believe contains illicit goods. On this trip, just a regular customs officials had pulled It had a high risk level, and they put it through the scanner and ended up searching it. It was cocoa beans from South America. Upon searching the container, they found almost a - We have several use all their creativity I'm going to show you an a pink Cadillac, and of the Cadillac all kind So when we examined it, it was As you see here, they filled like the shell of pineapples with cocaine. This one is an import The left pile of wood had darker edges. The cocaine was hidden in the wood itself. And also, the structure of Sometimes they hid stuff in the structure like in the floor or the ceiling. - On a yearly basis, we are talking about 40 to 50,000 containers which are scanned. The number of containers are millions of millions, and today, we do not have the infrastructure to scan all the containers. We scan 1.5% of the containers We stop a lot of tons, but the effect is zero. There is still huge quantities of cocaine entering the European market. - For customs officials, with this problem and really outmatched, and that's something actually and realize and have taken advantage of. For them to lose a thousand kilos here, a thousand kilos there, is because they just expect that they're just going Around 2008, 2009, there that police officials, started noticing. These large commercial ships, before they entered the would actually toss over One of their collaborators would come up in a smaller and pick up the cocaine. And this was known as &quot;the drop-off&quot;. And that was a really big breakthrough. What this meant was that that was in on it. As European law enforcement investigators started kind of honing in on this problem of commercial shipping companies being at the center of they started finding patterns, and they realized that there that seemed to be at the center and that was MSC. Mediterranean Shipping Company They are today the world's - MSC is a really interesting company. Over a period of five or six decades, They go from one ship surpassing everybody. It's a private company in Switzerland so its finances in It does sort of make in terms of the empire that they built over a short period of time all the more intriguing and - Starting in the early 2000s, MSC became a major player in the sea lanes from They started investing heavily or refrigerated containers - That turned out to for the traffickers because you inside containers of blueberries and it would move quickly and they don't wanna like slow those down because the fruit is a perishable - The cooling compartment to hide cocaine because that and closed without breaking - One of the key moments in the build out of this infrastructure was the in 2016. So you've got much bigger ships, much greater amounts of cargo. Again, much of it fruit other kinds of commodities, basically correlates with a in the ports of Antwerp and Rotterdam. - Because MSC dominated they became an easy target by traffickers. Law enforcement that cocaine that had had actually stopped through a US port. So they started kind of thinking if all of this but it's stopping in the US, - At the same time, European conducting investigations the infiltration of other parts of the shipping industry - So over the course they started following about four ships, and that was the MSC the MSC Avni, and the MSC Gayane. The MSC Gayane is a monstrous ship. This is a ship that is the It's one of the biggest ships - MSC Gayane was following from the west coast of South America through the Panama Canal and from there, from the east over to Rotterdam and Antwerp. - Gayane set sail in the spring of 2019. In mid-June after the Gayane it pulled into the mouth This day, instead of the Gayane being they were met by the Coast Homeland Security officials, customs and border protection officials. There were over a hundred law They corralled the crew, swabbing their hands for Those came back positive. They started doing a deeper and eventually found kind of and then they found more and they found more and eventually came up with the 20 tons. Initially, law enforcement How did they get so much So what they came to find out and through other kind that they were able to obtain was that the cocaine was actually while it was in the open As the Gayane was powering in the middle of the night, and essentially loaded The crew members used and basically hoisted up large nets filled with the bales of Then they would take that cocaine and then they pushed it and basically stashed it on the ship. So it was an extremely brazen operation. - They do this loading but multiple times. They load it as it's going down the west coast of South America, turns around at a port in and they do it several There were eight crew that was involved in including the chief mate, and the chief mate plays a He puts together the schedules, so he can get the crew that he knows are in on this operation all at night when he needs them to be He also has a lot of information so which containers are going where. US authorities did not arrest but you don't need the captain. But for an operation like this, you do need a very senior officer who can control the movement and all sorts of things. And keep in mind that this wasn't just happening on one ship. US authorities had also made seizures on the Carlotta and the Desiree which they believed operated This is something that it was a pretty well-oiled system, so that's why they were confident they could move that that many drugs, that tonnage of cocaine on a single load. - In total, there were that were implicated in and of those eight, four of before ever stepping foot on the Gayane on that particular voyage. At least one of them had been recruited in their home country of Montenegro. - Montenegro has a long The country's right on the Adriatic, produces a lot of sailors who are very skilled at what they do and they've been plying MSC taps into that in a way that's bigger than any other shipping company. They employ basically a of all Montenegrin sailors. - Organized criminal groups are particularly strong in the Balkans. There's a large network that have been operating there for years, really in the wake of and the Balkan Wars. As the economy there collapsed, If you're a cartel, if it only made sense and to target not only sailors, but to target sailors on MSC ships. - Senior law enforcement officials from at least three countries and said, look this is They had been told that their by the Balkan cartel and so from the point of view and ultimately law enforcement in the US, MSC had multiple opportunities before 2019 and didn't MSCs view is that they that would help curb this problem. Some cases, they put guards on some ships going from the east coast They tried to find other secure those logistic But their point mainly everything that every other There's an ongoing investigation into the Balkan cartel and Recently, there was a This individual was a from the Balkans, and he played a major coordinating role helping to recruit and there are eight and ultimately pled guilty and - After the crew members were sentenced, it turned out the case There was still the lingering question of what responsibility does And it turns out that there's a statute that says essentially that illicit cargo, in particular, you will be fined 1,000 dollars per ounce. Customs and border protection authorities added up all the cocaine, multiplied it by the and came up with what their fine would be. It was over 600 million dollars. The largest fine ever assessed The Gayane was seized by US officials during the course of the search and was detained for over a month. - The Gayane is worth at least but it's also, once you seize it, you take one of these massive of cargo ships that the company is using to move goods around the world. So it was a pretty shocking event for MSC. They reached an agreement to pay 50 million dollars, which is essentially putting There's a civil case going on right now where there's an effort that that initial seizure In other words, MSC should lose the ship. MSC is arguing that they're not culpable. US government is arguing and that case has the potential for shipping companies. US authorities really want to for not just MSC, but the It's absolutely clear MSC wasn't itself, as a company, smuggling the drugs, the Balkan cartel was smuggling the drugs. But there's a question about as its infrastructure is being used and misused by drug trafficking. - Even the most amount of money that a shipping company can spend on this, on guards, and on cameras, and on other technology that can detect when a container is open, even throwing money at that, it's gonna be very difficult because you still have an - Even though there were 20 it was just a fraction and the cocaine was found in But that's seven containers out of 4,000. It's a really, really,