(narrator) Ghosts and spectres. And that was People are terrified Every sixth person believes they are real. Death happens so quickly, Ghostbusters and scientists alike I've been to apartments that looked like they'd been hit by a bomb. Do things really exist beyond reason? Look! Lights. Where does reality end Is it fantasy or reality? (suspenseful music) The great myths of mankind. Mysteries passed on Inexplicable events, and superhuman heroes. Even scientists are fascinated. Is there any truth Researchers across the globe to solve the greatest mysteries (mysterious melody) (birds chirping) (suspenseful percussive music) Schallaburg Castle in Lower Austria and has a dark past. Some visitors are said Legend has it that the ghost her face covered with hair. The villagers call her the Dog Maiden. (key turning in lock) For 28 years, Johannes Ertl has been He claims to have seen (mysterious melody) It all started one night He says this was his first encounter (mysterious melody continues) (German dubbed into English) It was late Everyone had gone. I was patrolling the Then I entered the crypt, As the fog began to clear, the custodian In his eyes, it looked just like There stood the Dog Maiden, around five feet Beautiful dark, black hair. She had what resembled a dog's snout, but there was nothing mean about her. It was the first time Johannes Ertl I was panicking. All of a sudden, the fog closed in on me and the Dog Maiden passed through me... Filling me with a powerful, That lasted maybe three seconds, He's not the only one Similar sightings are reported frequently Studies show that 15% of the world's Some say they appear Some claim they look just like us. Others talk of bizarre sounds, sudden drops in temperature The souls of the dead usually haunt Some believe that if a person they can't find their way to the afterlife and wander between the worlds instead. (dramatic drum roll) The concept of a ghost, is based on that a person's body And when their body dies, Many cultures actually developed would not come back and haunt the living. (dramatic orchestral music) England, Every other castle is allegedly haunted. (crow croaking) On foggy days, reality seems to blur, and the souls of the dead are said to roam Around 500 years ago, London becomes Henry VIII, King of England, orders the beheading for failing to provide him (metal clanging) Legend has it that every year, Anne returns to Blickling Hall Until the break of day, her ghost where she was born, (dramatic music) That's just one of many tales of ghosts. Is it all an illusion, The appearances of the Dog Maiden are also allegedly linked to a real story. Back in the 16th century, the Losenstein brothers They got into a fight To honour him, the villagers infuriating the older brother so much so Legend has it that his wife but she was born with a furry face. The family rejected her, forcing her to live in the catacombs Ever since, the Dog Maiden's ghost There have been numerous sightings. Legend has it that if you see her, one of your family members However, no such cases Johannes Ertl (floorboards creaking) I felt her presence again and right now, she's standing behind us. The custodian has no doubts. Researchers are looking for explanations. Death may be the primary concern of most To confront a ghost isn't just to confront but it's also to existentially confront And so seeing a ghost that there is an afterlife, Humanity has long believed in spirits. Even the Neanderthals had burial rites. Researchers have come across and interpret this as proof that people (suspenseful music) (suspenseful percussive music) In ancient Egypt, the deceased were so that their souls could return (mysterious music) The Egyptians built extremely elaborate some even with West-facing stairs that allowed their souls in search of the realm of the dead. Symbols and drawings on the walls guiding the soul towards the afterlife. To the Egyptians, nature was proof Just like the sun continues to rise, people too rise from the dead. In Egyptian thought, to be the field of reeds But if something was very wrong, to the land of the living But if all was well, in watching over the lives of the living. In the Roman Empire, people deeply believed in the existence In his letters, consul Pliny the Younger where people have heard and been frightened by ghosts. Believing in ghosts The first written reference we have is by Pliny the Younger Ghosts are based upon the idea Now in some cultures, to make sure that the person that the soul is at rest and therefore, But do ghosts really exist? Or do we just want to believe that we think we see them? St. Francisville, Louisiana. Myrtles Plantation is known across Ghosts are even said Hester Eby has known the house She shows us an old mirror (mysterious music) The mirror frame itself The glass has been changed and each time a new glass the same prints will reappear. (mysterious instrumental music) We clean the mirror... But those prints do not go away. Fingerprints on a mirror Messages from a ghost? I think the prints continue to appear, and the faces, show up in the mirror That's where they want to be seen. So they do come out. It's their way Staff and visitors report seeing Pictures show a shape. Are these merely stories or are we dealing with an actual ghost? Locals tell the story who allegedly worked on the plantation. In an era when wealth and dignity the hard work in the fields and (distant banging sound) In the early 1800s, Chloe, one of their slaves, wants to take revenge for sexually harassing her. She makes a poisoned cake, but only his wife and two children They all die. Legend has it that the other slaves After committing such a horrible crime, She is said to still haunt the plantation I believe they're still here, after all A lot of psychics have told us that death has happened that their spirit leaves, And they're not at rest yet. This was their home. Hester then speaks about something It happened to me not long ago, We had a school group here I came out and was greeting There was a little girl. And she looked at me and she said, I looked down to make sure knowing a spot was there. But everything luckily looked like But then she said, &quot;Are you hungry? And I could tell (loud bang) So she was not talking to me. I looked at her mother and we didn't say anything else. Did the young girl Believing in ghosts in many countries across the world. Some people even think Custodian Johannes Ertl for why the Dog Maiden (German dubbed into English) In the 12th century, And in the 14th century, and led people and souls to the dark side. To him, the Dog Maiden is sending asking him to do good in this life. The encounters have The Dog Maiden reveals herself, she always fills me with positive energy, showing me I have the strength thereby stopping my soul Can science provide us with an explanation (relaxing instrumental music) The Black Forest, southern Germany. The scene of many ghost tales. This deserted hotel in the town of Most locals steer clear 100 years ago, high society including the Queen of the Netherlands. (1920s jazz song) In World War II, the hotel which appears to have left behind Legend has it that the owner of the hotel Soon, rumours about ghosts We use the empty hotel We want two teams to find out and see the impact the ghost stories have Researchers believe that ghosts Psychologist Lydia Benecke from a scientific point of view. The participants describe (speaks in German) (German dubbed into English) is knowing everything And now I have to walk through this place, -That's what makes me nervous. (Sandra) Yes! I'm nervous! The sheer fact that everything Nothing's changed, and that's (speaks in German) The hotel seems But not terrifying in itself. I actually I generally don't believe in ghosts, (speaks in German) The hotel is in complete darkness. Our participants are only carrying a torch Ah! Now I get it! I have to admit, (bell rings) (Sandra) My God! (Susanne) I actually don't want (Sandra) Me neither! Our psychologist, Lydia Benecke, (German dubbed in English) What's perfect Of course they're afraid because they're The team that doesn't believe in ghosts (Carolin) What's that? (Jessica) A torch, I believe. (Sandra) Okay... (Lydia) Of course, (Sandra) That was so scary Holy cow! (Susanne) Oh, no! Okay. (Susanne gasps) -(Sandra) What is it? The place, the darkness, (Jessica) Zoom in a bit. (Carolin) Okay, is that a painting, (Jessica) Get a little closer. I don't even want to touch it. -(Carolin) Or hold this and I'll do it. -(Susanne) Wow! it's freezing in here! (Susanne) It's as though somebody None of them wants to rule out (Lydia) This is a perfect example of how can impact our perception. They are imagining They view this as a warning instead of seeing it with a simple physical explanation, being that hallways (suspenseful electronic music) Team 1 aborts the test. The second team also decides to finish We had a chat and decided, I wouldn't have wanted to continue. Because I didn't know what else was It did get quite scary at times. And we felt but we couldn't see Yes. I found it Do I believe I'm tempted to say yes. The experiment confirms the hypothesis: the environment and our briefings The way we perceive the world is actually based on how our brain Our perception It's always a subjective interpretation that builds off of our knowledge, our experience and our world views. (speaks in German) If everything happens in our minds, does that mean that ghosts exist for some, (pulsating beat) People have always been fascinated They have also come to cinematic fame, (dramatic music) (knocking) Poltergeists are said to communicate or ravage entire rooms. Witnesses describe a typical poltergeist whose actions you can only see or hear. Most incidents are actually caused But, initially, they create Bavaria, Germany in the 1980s. Events at a dental clinic There's a voice inside the walls (inaudible voice through wall) The dentist and his patients are baffled. Police investigators using malicious caller identification Chopper, as the voice calls itself, keeps everyone in suspense Until the staff notice during the shifts (Chopper) I won't contact you again. (narrator) The colleague is caught, (newscaster) Chopper, the supposed ghost made headlines for quite some time, but (narrator) So it turns out that this time However, this isn't always the case. One thing is absolutely certain, and it's that there are some things in the Yet, there's an intrinsic desire within One solution, of course, is to say that things, which there is no (mysterious music) Freiburg, in the deep heart Walter von Lucadou and head of the Centre for Parapsychology. Since 1989, he's been investigating The centre works The parapsychologist believes (German dubbed into English) I've been to apartments that looked by a bomb and the people there Walter von Lucadou wants to find There's often a simple explanation. One case I'd like to cite who heard a voice in his apartment. I asked him where it was coming from, &quot;It's coming from my tea kettle.&quot; He thought nobody would believe him The physicist has a suspicion. He asks his client to put the kettle I asked him if there were any strong And it turned out he was picking up A boiling tea kettle, a stove top, Case solved. The alleged voices from the afterlife Curious. This time, there is (suspenseful music) But some mysteries remain unsolved. One famous example dates back to 1967. The Rosenheim case and remains one of the most investigated, best-documented Legal assistant Annemarie S. Every time she enters a room, (popping noises) (German dubbed into English) It's not every day that bulbs burst (narrator) pores over every detail from the case. The former head of the centre is convinced that this case was neither fraud (German dubbed into English) because they conducted physical tests. These events have been confirmed adding credibility (German dubbed into English) I was while Ms. Annemarie was making copies. At that very moment, the flower painting by about 320 degrees, and the mounting wire (narrator) Is there an explanation Annemarie is accused of fraud. Experts believe that in this case, mental states According to the theory of psychokinesis, that it causes pictures to suddenly spin Parapsychologists, believe that psychokinesis can serve (speaks in German) The ghost is It's called &quot;externalization&quot;, and it can mean their inner tension And obviously, that's typically the place We call them &quot;focus persons&quot;, Lucadou says that when physics and psychology intersect. Looking at the phenomena, we can see there's a very intense between what happens in the external world Are we the ghosts? Can we move objects with our minds? Scientists still have a long way to go. Some ghost phenomena and some explanations So the idea is that no other explanation can be true. So the real question to me is, if science can capture or explain or show does that mean there isn't on the inside of that energy? Who knows? Perhaps there is. The history of humanity They can be found But there's disagreement amongst when it comes or whether they're a blessing or a curse. (quiet, suspenseful music) (man chanting in Yoruba) This backyard in Berlin, Kreuzberg leads to the only It's a community centre for people who believe (chanting continues) The belief revolves around connecting the spirits of Candomble. The babalorixa is the highest (German dubbed into English) not least because Germans We feel the same way. I give something, That's the balance. That's Candomble. The orixas are forces of nature. They're in the trees, There are up to 16 different main ghosts, and every person is connected Every worshipper is told which orixas But only the oracle The babalorixa In a small room in the basement the spiritual leader (speaks in Yoruba) You are meant to identify or receive strength from them. For example, some people like the sea. When they're in the ocean, they feel By allowing this strength to enter When Africans were displaced as slaves, and reached the shores of Brazil, where they've remained omnipresent Holidays are celebrated with the orixas, who are treated (chanting and bells ringing) The children of the saints, can establish contact allowing people to receive The Candomble community But what happens when someone dies? There is no such thing as death. You no longer need the strength, and your body turns into earth, and the spirit goes to the ancestors, (horn rings out) The babalorixa explains where, according to him, he sees I sometimes see the dead. I don't mean that I talk to them. I mean that I see them, When I see my mother, my grandma, I see an image. I know they're there (speaks in German) Seeing ghosts and spirits as companions, might be a comforting thought to many. Believing in ghosts is a central In Mexico, the spirits of the deceased in an extraordinary festival Dia de los Muertos. Mexicans believe their dead return starting from the end of October and lasting until What might seem frightening to outsiders is rather an exuberant celebration They serve food to the deceased, skulls made of sugar, calaveras de dulce, or coffins made of marzipan. It's a big celebration, Yellow and orange colours from the graveyards to their homes. The Mexicans say that these colours are easiest Believing in spirits and religion? (soft guitar music) We're fascinated because it is one Is there an afterlife? We like to conceive of the fact because it brings great comfort, the idea that we will but also because of the fact that we will (suspenseful electronic music) Karin Huber is a medium She believes she's been in touch Connecting with the afterlife has become (German dubbed into English) I was able to I thought they were people Talking to others, I realised and that I was different, And that's why I stopped telling others During a car ride, My wake-up call, if you will, and I saw this woman standing there. She was wearing a violet dress and a violet floppy hat. She looked straight out of the 70s. I hit the brakes I almost caused an accident. And that was really like a flash (speaks in German) Karin Huber As always, she's listening to music. The spiritual world We, in the present world, are contained and therefore We are grounded. To get a little closer to the spiritual Karin Huber says she has the gift of (Karin) I work with my psychic senses. I can pick up images Sometimes a favourite song. tasting what might have been I feel the personality, Four clients are taking part They're all hoping (Sandra, dubbed into English) we sat there wondering I didn't want to send her here alone, And, at that moment, I didn't have &quot;I really want to see someone.&quot; I actually just wanted to find out (speaks in German) Okay, so I am sensing a woman I feel that I'm working What I know is that there is a grandmother who wants to talk And I also know that the granddaughter or when she was young, She also tells me So I'm in the garden and I'm pulling my potatoes or my carrots That's what she gives me. (speaks in German) I could really sense My mom's mom. And that was exactly Carrots and potatoes, that was our thing. I have to speak about food all the time. She takes me to the kitchen and I'm Yes, and I would like to... It's like there's a wooden bench She is showing me memories. How you cooked Because I can see the carrot peels. She says you two She's just one thought away, and right now, you are receiving That's what she wants me to tell you. (speaks in German) Sceptics believe that psychics and use other people's body language they know more about the afterlife. Karin Huber's clients Well, the first contact. That's when I thought, You couldn't have found that online. Nobody's ever talked about that.&quot; Once you've made contact You feel safe somehow, There's more energy, Those who come to Karin Huber They find solace (dramatic orchestral music) Spiritism and natural sciences dividing people into two camps. There are those and there are those meaning they only believe in things The famous inventor of the light bulb, is ridiculed and mocked by his fellows when word gets out Edison believes it's possible He thinks humans have two energy units one for our body When we die and the physical cells Edison claims, the part of our energy that With the right technology, we should Edison can't manage to build No signal for now. But what do things look like Aren't we much more and able to contact the afterlife today? Ariane Gerhold, also known as Minckee, is Berlin's most famous ghosthunter. She's heading to Grabowsee, a former sanatorium for lung patients. People claim to have witnessed In 1896, opens its doors in Berlin. The patients come here but many can't escape death. Minckee seems to feel (German dubbed into English) stuck in a place like this Maybe death came and that's why I feel a certain sense Because they might have thought After World War II, the former sanatorium For decades, Minckee and Savas are preparing Minckee will use a ghost radio first. One thing that's really important You have to invite them. Allow them to draw energy They have to know they can trust us, because some of the deceased And they are surprised. (radio static) (Minckee) (Savas) I'm Savas. (radio static continues) Please give me a &quot;yes&quot; to let me know Please take all the energy you need. You can take it from our equipment Is there anyone else with us? (radio static continues) Is the young boy still here? It's not just that Minckee she also says they appear out of the blue. Minckee claims to have met the ghost I saw a young boy. He was standing I mean, I could really see him. I could see his clothes. Not fine knitwear. and he was standing there, He didn't understand what was going on. The first attempt is unsuccessful. The only frequencies the radio picks up The ghostbuster and her assistant (mysterious sounds) They walk past former hospital rooms, ORs, down to the catacombs (footsteps) More than 100 years ago, It's a place to say goodbye. Will a former patient get in touch? Up until now, everything's been quiet. But suddenly, Minckee senses something. She uses an infrared camera If energy in the room changes, The ghostbuster really believes (Minckee) Right now, we're hoping Whoever is here, It crashed? That means When something like that happens, The tablet is fully charged. There's To be honest, I have to say... It's turning off again. That's not normal! (Savas) As I've said before, I'm more I'd check the technology first. (Minckee) It's not cold enough on the temperature. (speaks in German) (Minckee) Is anyone here at the table? Does anyone want Walk over to the green light? And then something happens The measuring device starts to flash. (Minckee) Look! Lights! And now it's also safe to say Nothing happened this whole time, It's even turning red! (Savas) That's really rare, yes. (Minckee) It's stopping now. The fact that it turned red who has actually found peace here So you actually don't want me Look! Now it's communicating. Go and find your peace. Thanks for playing along for a while. (car engine starts) Contact with the afterlife, The question remains: If we look from a scientific perspective, either for or against, Certainly, for those humans the evidence for the afterlife There certainly is somewhere We can provide explanations for almost Paranormal phenomena But we still don't know Is there a life after death? Are there ghosts or angels? For now, it all comes down (quiet, suspenseful music) Subtitles: