Hey everyone! Today I want to bust 8 very common power Things I see very often in my comments section, as well as in other places on the Internet. A lot of them are things that are true but just don't really apply So if you're new to homelabbing, you should definitely stick around for this one, because a lot of those things Now before we dive into the I want to bust one very pervasive myth Math and computer science Because they don't have to be! Thanks to the sponsor of Brilliant.org is a If you didn't like math, physics Brilliant is the perfect place to They feature tons of courses on math, physics, computational biology, and scientific thinking. And if you have a more Brilliant also offer courses on data analysis, computer science, LLMs and programming. Not to sound like a life guru slash influencer, but if my twenties taught me anything, it's that the best kind of investment, is an investment into yourself. So who knows, maybe Brilliant.org If you want to try it out, go to and get your free thirty day trial. The first two hundred people to sign up, will also get 20% off their annual subscription. So thank you Brilliant for sponsoring this video, and now, let's dive into Myth #1 - Idle power consumption only matters Ever since I started making videos I get asked the same question. "What's the point of measuring Does your server just sit around looking And no, obviously. My home server is currently running serving files over SMB, downloading Linux ISOs, and doing a lot of other useful things. But even with all of those things going on, the system still spends most of its If we look at load average for the past minute, we see a load of 0.12, which And according to powertop, the system spends 88% Why's that? Well, imagine, if you will, Usually, when you turn on a desktop PC, it's because you want to do something on it. Be that gaming, video editing, web I have a couch gaming PC and here's what it looks like when I'm gaming. It's not powered on very often, And now for comparison, here's what a See the difference? Now, of course, sometimes, my home server Here it is doing a Snapraid Scrub, here it is transcoding 4K HDR video. But what's important here is the percentage relative to the time that the My gaming PC only gets powered And every time you see it on the graph, it's going full blast and draws hunderds of watts. Whereas my home server is powered on 24/7, always ready to download and serve media, generate invoices, and scan documents. And as you can see, not all of these 24 In fact, most of the time your always on running background tasks and So in short, no, "idling" doesn't mean that running no services, and being useless. And idle, or lower load, power especially if your build is running 24/7. A metric that is often overlooked who focus on TDP and full load power consumption. Which brings us to misconception number two &quot;The lower the TDP, the TDP, or thermal power design basically refers to And these days, even that Most modern CPUs feature some where the CPU can boost way beyond as long as the cooling and AMD calls it "precision boost but it's basically the same thing. Anyway, the TDP number only refers And unless your CPU is practically hammered, it's going to downclock and consume At idle, most modern CPUs consume less than 1W Seriously, if you have Linux installed go install turbostat and see for yourself. Most of the power draw on your idling chipset, onboard devices and any of the PCIe A system with an i3-9100T will use the same amount even though these CPUs have And even though TDP might be a useful metric it's not very useful to estimate the power Now that being said, if you plan you should still pick a cooler Your server might be idling 98% of the Myth #3 - Undervolting the CPU Now, this is another common myth. In case you're not familiar with undervolting, it's the practice of running your CPU or GPU Since no two chips are made equal, chip manufacturers usually and make all chips of the same But if you get lucky with the you might be able to run it at a lower voltage, thus giving you better thermals In a lot of cases, it can If your CPU or GPU is thermally limited, undervolting the chip will make it run cooler, and thus give it more headroom Now unfortunately, even though undervolting can help quite a lot with the it doesn't do much when it As I already mentioned in the previous point, the CPU contributes very little to I've tried running a 125mV and I haven't really seen any meaningful You might be able to shave like 250 mW, Myth #4 - ECC is a must have for a home serv... ...Nah, we're not doing this one today Myth #4 - ARM computers are Now this statement, in and of itself, is true. New ARM processors DO usually deliver Apple certainly proved it and these days you see more and more Amazon for one definitely thinks that Even going as far as to claim use 60% less energy compared to their x86 nodes. So the obvious question is - If I care so much about power efficiency, Well, there are two reasons. And the first one actually has I have 8 SATA drives in my current home server, 3 hard drives, and 5 SSDs. In addition to that, it also has a And as of now, there simply aren't any ARM SBCs or feature enough PCIe connectivity for me and a 10 gig networking card. The ITX-3588J does get pretty close, but the price they're asking That would probably negate any compared to a much cheaper And the second reason is the fact doesn't really translate to idle efficiency. I mean, sure, an M1 Macbook Air consumes but so does this x86 desktop system, based on And unlike the Macbook Air, it has an M.2 slot, And I mean, just look at the energy efficient which I'm going to link in There are builds that would rival a Raspberry Pi, with one even consuming less than 1W at idle. Yes, the whole system. Now, does the Apple M1 have better You bet! Does the Raspberry Pi consume way Absolutely! Does your typical ARM SBC expandability and upgradability as an x86 system? Nope. Not really. So to sum it up, even though ARM is a more this power efficiency doesn't translate into Apart from that, most available ARM and the ones that aren't ...and a leg Mythos #5 - Newer means more power efficient Now, looking at how far computer It's fair to assume that if you it will probably outperform So this obviously means that inherently more efficient than older ones, right? And I feel like I'm repeating myself Just because a certain part has doesn't necessarily mean it consumes less at idle. Here's a good example. I've got this Asrock C236 WSI, which And I've also got its spiritual which was sent to me by Asrock, and which Both boards have the cheapest i3 CPUs of the i3-6100 for the Skylake board, and And if we'll look at the idle power The older 6th gen board draws around 7W at idle And the newer 12th gen Now, obviously, a 3W difference is And if we look at the difference in performance, the i3-13100 is obviously But just on the face of it, newer hardware isn't always more power And as we've established earlier, it's the idle power consumption that not raw performance per watt. So if you're deciding between, let's say, a and an Alder Lake build that you'll And you want to get the Alder Lake one just like, you don't need the additional performance. In my opinion, just go for Kaby Lake. Myth #6 - Laptops and low are more efficient than full-blown desktop machines This one is tricky, because at a Laptop CPU designs draw less Which is obvious, since laptops are made to be So since laptop CPUs draw less power, why not just take a laptop CPU, and That way, you get the best of both worlds! The connectivity and expandability of a desktop, and the power efficiency of a laptop In fact, there are quite a few motherboards And if we look at the Mini PC market Basically all of them come with CPUs There's also a whole lineup that weren't explicitly designed for laptop use, but are still built with low power Think Celeron J4125, Pentium With that out of the way, the question is Are these CPUs really more power efficient for home server scenarios than And the answer is - it depends. In my Ninkear N16 review, I of an Alder Lake laptop and a Kaby Lake desktop. Surprisingly, the desktop build which shows us that laptops aren't inherently less power hungry than desktops, Same applies for using a laptop In one of my earlier videos, which is basically a laptop chip And as I found out throughout my testing, this mutant CPU doesn't draw less than a But what about the embedded desktop chips? For what it's worth, something like more power efficient at idle than let's say, a Kaby Lake CPU. And to demonstrate that, I have yet to make a video about - the Asrock N100DC-ITX. At idle, it draws around 7W, But the same is true for this 7 year old And don't get me wrong, it is very impressive while consuming almost 10 times less at full load. Not to mention that it has a way newer However, these embedded chips come The N100 only supports one channel of RAM, It also only comes with 9 PCIe lanes. Which means that on most motherboards, you will have one M.2 x2 slot, and The i3-6100 on the other hand offers 16 lanes, and this motherboard definitely 8 SATA ports, all of which are without using any kind of SATA port A full PCIe x16 slot with Letting you split it into multiple slots And two gigabit NICs. Now personally, I think that for the PCIe and SATA connectivity is much more So even though the embedded CPU designs draw less And if you're okay with paying this price Something like an Asrock N100DC-ITX Myths #7 and #8 - PSU Myths Now I couldn't find a good so I'm just gonna use this category to consolidate The first one is the higher the PSU rating, By rating I mean things like 80 Bronze, The thing is, the 80 Plus ratings only show So for instance, in order a PSU has to achieve 82% at 20% load, And if we look at the Titanium level, A Titanium PSU has to achieve 90% 94% at 50% load, and finally, However, most power efficient home server Which, if we take a bog standard consumer Unfortunately, most ATX power supplies And this inefficiency doesn't always Take this Corsair CX450M, for example. This PSU is rated 80 bronze, and Now let's look at the gold-rated Seasonic At 20W, it actually only reaches 70% efficiency. At the same time, Corsair RM550x, reaches as much as 80% at 20W power draw. That's a 10% difference between two power Now obviously, there is usually some rating and its efficiency, even at lower loads. But these figures usually aren't and have any influence on the 80 Plus rating. So choose your power supply carefully, and always look at the lower Finally, the last myth that "lower wattage PSUs are more The best example for that is corsair's If we look at the 20W tests, we'll actually see that SF600 is more Not by a huge margin, but still. And when it comes to very low these are usually based on pretty old technology. As desktop components got the manufacturers shifted to 600, 800 And I think that that's one of the reasons 550W is simply not enough Now don't get me wrong, there's definitely some correlation between the PSUs wattage But just like with the 80 Plus rating, I wouldn't recommend just blindly going for Always look at the reviews and pay So there you have it guys. We busted 8 common power efficiency myths, And I hope that this information power efficient home server for As usual, I'd like to thank my Patrons