I knew their heart-wrenching stories long But it didn't make them any easier to hear. These young smugglers are part of an underground against one of the most oppressive regimes Risking everything for an unexpected tool Make-up. The Democratic People's Republic of Korea, World War II when the once united Korean peninsula You probably know it best for its eccentric millennial dictator, Kim Jong Un, his arsenal international leaders. In North Korea, access to the Internet and are allowed to leave. The longest running communist dynasty has But there's a new wave of resistance brewing. Only it might not look how you think. Seoul, South Korea is known for street after South Korean products known as K-Beauty. In less than a decade, it's exploded into The sheer amount of choices and information old Jessie Kim. She and I, same neutral colors? Yes. We're both neutral. Oh my god! So good! Jessie grew up in North Korea, under oppressive She's part of a new generation that's Strict rules around appearance are used by Visual confirmation of whether or not you A state issued guide outlines specific hairstyles Salon menus show the cuts that are allowed. Appearances are so regulated that any deviations But what's strictly controlled by the regime Danbi Kim started a business smuggling basic But she quickly realized that beauty and fashion What kind of items were most requested? Many North Koreans barely know what South Korean K-Beauty products are even called. But they know they want them. You were getting hundreds of orders from all The demand for South Korean products is high. But how do they even know that they exist? The best way to understand K-beauty is within The Korean Wave. A tsunami of popular South Korean culture. Boy bands, and girl bands. K-dramas and films. And the latest wave: K-beauty. So as you see here, we have four different These microtip pads have a needle here. Wait, there's needles on these sheet masks? Iconic South Korean It's like a lab down here. Its progress is part of a larger experiment. We've got some support with our global marketing in the U.S. and in China. So the government awarded Dr. Jart+ funding stores and spread the word even further Yeah. It's part of a government strategy to export Korean culture and build international It's called In international relations, if we talk about what we call hard power. So when we talk about hard power, we normally guns, military might. When we talk about soft power, we're trying counterpart to do what we would think is desirable So if hard power is forcing people to like Yeah. This soft power strategy has been vital to by bringing in tens of billions of dollars. The Korean Wave has reached countries all K-Dramas smuggled into North Korea through so have its beauty trends. We've heard from North Koreans how they have these things ourselves?" Liberty in North Korea is a non-profit that information they bring out of the country It's this sort of shared disobedience you In a country that's as restrictive as North You were a rebel. Yeah. Jessie was able to avoid being arrested. But Danbi paid a heavy price. One night, North Korean officials came to They accused her older brother of being a the regime. She was just 17. Punishments for rule breakers in North Korea The state has a secret network of camps and detention centers that it denies exists, testimonies collected by the UN. Drawings from prison camp survivors detail Eating rats to survive. Barbaric forms of torture. And even mass executions. It's estimated that around 200,000 North Danbi's decision to leave wasn't an easy Defecting from North Korea is a difficult South Korea has an open door policy but there's The demilitarized zone between the two countries Instead, most take their chances through China, and then on to Mongolia or that won't send them back. Liberty in North Korea's footage gives us view into the harrowing journey. You may face the risk of being shot in the Or caught midway through and being dragged And there's no time to think, sometimes nervous and scared. That's about a 3,000 mile journey, longer Once they get to Southeast Asia and our team Some people are just so exhausted, they just Others are just so overjoyed because this Of the more than 25 million people living it's estimated that about 1,000 Hannah and her team are involved every step They've seen what matters most to defectors The basics are the most important, but every they'll ask for hair dye or face masks. Some people might look at this very small these kits, and say, "Why would someone from North Korea need a face mask?" What would your response to that be? I can only imagine how difficult that journey is. And so to come through that, even if there's mask, what's so wrong about wanting to really a new life? It's a reminder that K-beauty's impact It's a tool of comfort, resistance, and I'm about to learn just how far that influence Just last year, Kim Jong Un declared that cosmetics game to make, in his words, the Is K-beauty a threat to North Korea? I think so. The South Korean K-beauty is a threat to the society. Professor Nam is one of the few people in products. He offered to show me what NK beauty looks I wouldn't know that any of this is from office looking at products that you basically Trying North Korean, state-created beauty It doesn't smell like a beauty product. It doesn't have that floral-y, fragrance-y And it smells more like it's an edible product. For the countries of North and South Korea, for power. For its people, it's a driver of change. These small changes that are happening are This is really where there's hope. The reality is beauty isn't going to free But curiosity about self-expression creates It's empowering the younger generations Thanks for watching Refinery29. For more videos like this, click here. And to subscribe, click here.