[Welcome to NeoTokyo Square.] [Please refrain from feeding the cyber enhanced pigeons] [as they have been known to steal wallets &amp; engage in illegal data sharing.] Welcome to Cyberhex Care Clinic. My name is Tabba-(tha) Oh my days. Those are so cute. May I? Thank you. Oh and they are incredibly soft. It looks like Jewel's work, am I right? Thought so! Whatever gave you the idea? Yes, I did suspect. Lumi the emotional support cybercat has inspired many patients here at Cyberhex Care Clinic Well, thank you for allowing me to scritch your ears. Let me just access your patient files OK, I see here it has written That the ear install was actually quite recent, so I'll be sure to keep my voice down And I also see here that you're in for another upgrade. You're looking for a matching pair of cybercat eyes Is that correct? Alright well, absolutely I can do that for you. I am the best doctor in high surgery, after all. Now the first step is to digitally scan the 3D structures of your face so that we can have a custom printed custom built and designed cybernetic cat eye made just for you. Okay. I'll go grab the eye scanner Okay, this is the scanning goggles that I'm going to place on your head. Is that ok? You're not uncomfortable with that at all? Okay, I'm going to fit it comfortably over your cybernetic cat ears. I'll just make sure this is calibrated to point in the middle and turn on each side to get each eye. [Attention Citizens!] Just one moment. [Please be advised that the hover-car parking meters are currently malfunctioning.] Just one moment there... [Please insert your credit chip...] It can be strangely finicky. [...&amp; sacrifice a small robotic creature to appease the technological Gods. Thank you for your co-operation.] Okay. How does that fit? Nice and comfortable? I'm just going to just make sure it's nice and straight for you... to give the best optimal reading. So, this is going to 3D scan your individual unique facial structure so that we can print out a unique shell of cybercat eye for you so that it fits comfortably and moves perfectly We're not like those other shifty, dodgy ripperdocs like zzzyber-mod down the street. No no no. We have utmost quality and hygiene practices, so you're safe here. Not to worry. But before we do send off the data from this eye scanning device we will be going through a couple of tests to be sure that we have a nice comparison of before and afters. We will also be checking the circumference of your head to be sure the swelling is under control as well as going through the disclaimers just so that you know what's ahead of this procedure. Feel like a little twist... It's not going to ruin the scan at all, don't worry! and then we will be going through colors and branding so you have the correct eye model just for you And then all that's left to do is give you an Air Hypo and begin the surgery Ah! It's finished. I will turn off the scanning. [Ladies &amp; Gentleman, we apologise for the brief power outage earlier...] Hold on there... [We assure you it was just a routine software update...] Okay. [...&amp; not a cyberterrorist attack.] Very good. [Please resume your daily activities.] Okay. Now it is time to measure your noggin. May I? Ok Okay. I'm going to measure right around the back of your head. Okay... Let's see what we got here... 56cm. Very respectable size for a noggin. *What shall we name this robot? &gt;&gt;* That's smack bam in the middle of average actually. So now we're going to perform just a very basic, very quick eye test and that is to be sure that we have a nice comparison and everything is working as you are right now, okay? Alright. I'm just going to turn off Alright, good! How many fingers am I holding up? It's okay, I didn't expect you to see. Very good anyway! Uh, that is, for human vision. Now, I'm going to test your depth perception. [Ladies &amp; Gentleman, the train will arrive late thanks to a cyberpsycho thinking he can lift the train off the tracks. /sigh/ Thank you for your time.] &amp; so I have a very dim torch here. And I want you to stare at the light on it. And... as it gets close, stare at it And as it gets far away, stare at it . And just notice how the light looks from far. And from close. And from far away. And from close. And again From far away Follow the light And from close. Okay. Very good, and that's more for you to note, really. Okay - the next test will make a little bit more sense later but I have a series of four cards here And I just want you to say if you can see any sort of image on this card Can you make anything out? If I hold it a bit closer does anything look different about this card at all? Anything different? No... Okay. Let's show the next card. Can you make out any image? You can? And is anything different if I hold it a little bit closer? No? Okay. The next card... Can you make out an image? And is anything a little different if I hold it closer? No? Okay. Last one. Anything in that ink blot pattern? Do you see anything in this ink blot pattern? And if I hold it closer do you see anything unusual? Not really? Okay. Well that test will be much more fun later. Okay. I'm just going to briefly run through the disclaimer. Uh...with you, I don't want to go into I'll touch on the important points, okay so... We have here... [Ladies &amp; Gentleman, I would kindly ask you to not leave your cybernetic arms &amp; legs in the middle of the road. Thank you.] Let's go to... I guess... side effects of the cybercat eye surgery May include a susceptibility for... catnip dependency. It also says here that you may have an aversion to bathing. Which may or may not be a problem. /unintelligible/ Also a fixation with moving objects, which is quite common as you get more and more cybercat upgrades /unintelligible/ Also an uncontrollable urge to miaow or purr. That's another one that's quite common earlier on. I'm a bit surprised it hasn't happened already actually. But yeah, anecdotal. /unintelligible/ additional fees and... It's quite long You know. it's a bit boring but... /unintelligible/ That's the basics. Pretty much I got you covered. Would you please put your fingerprint right here? Thank you so much. Perfect. Okay I'm just going to briefly go through the models we have available today for you. You can see on the monitor So might I recommend Araska It is preem The technology is of the utmost quality And actually... what is your budget? Oh, that's not a lot of scratch. Perhaps I may offer a different brand to you. We have Zetatech, which is very durable Eh, &amp; if that's not your style, we also have Militech, which is great for combat users. And Biotechnica, which is more if you're in the medical field, like I am. Which I can vouch for, it's quite good. Do any of those spark your fancy and meet your needs? Oh... Oh, nothing - I just... I'm quite surprised - you don't look the type. No offense. No, offence....okay And are we after any colour in particular? We have every colour under the sun A blue? Just say when. Perfect. We will put that blue for you and send it to the printer. I'll just require your credchip. Okay, I'll just put that in your patient notes. /unintelligible/ Perfect. May I please have your credchip? Thank you. Perfect. [This is your daily reminder to change your passwords and if you can't remember them] Wonderful. There you go. Thank you so much for that. [Don't worry, just use your retina scanner and hope for the best. Thank you.] Ok, now the moment you've been waiting for. Time for the airhypo, which will leave you feeling cosy, tingly, drowsy and warm. And will make the whole experience a lot more fun. But some people do experience auditory or visual hallucinations. And if you find it to be overwhelming, let me know And I'll help relax you, and calm you down, okay? So I'm going to just... on the side of your head, okay. It's not going to hurt. It's just a pin prick, okay. You're a bit... uncomfortable with needles? Okay hmm... Close your eyes if you must but I have something very important to tell you now. So just... hold still and close your eyes if you must. Why is a cat so good at videogames? Because they have nine lives... Oh come on, that wasn't so bad! Plus, it distracted you, didn't it. I bet you didn't even feel the pin prick! [Dear shopers...] How are you feeling so far? [I would like to remind you that if you hear...] Okay, well that's good. [&quot;This is my favourite shop in Kabuki&quot; that it is a deep fake ai rogue.] Ah, looks like the eye is printed. I guess I'll just go grab that and you might start seeing things, but I will not be long I'm still here, I'm going to take a couple of steps to my left, to the 3D printer, okay? And when I get back we'll talk about how awesome these cyberoptic cat eyes will be for you, okay? [Attention Citizens of the Neon District: Please do not attempt to pet the robotic police dogs. They are highly sensitive and may mistake your affection for a cyber attack. Thank you.] Here it is, isn't it Nova? It has the typical elongated cat pupil And the optical cables so you can manoeuvre it And see out of the camera inside this Now, this particular model, custom will offer you quite a tactical advantage. Now, this is because it offers four Night vision, so you have enhanced 'dark mode' essentially. You'll see in the dark as well as seeing spectrums that are invisible ordinarily to human vision, such as UV light, which comes in very handy if you want to spot those secret There are UV signs all around town that you can follow to find the cyberkitty club And this model also offers enhanced depth perception, which is great for spotting targets. Far away, or close at hand. And this one also has a thrown in bonus and that is digital zoom Now the digital zoom on this particular model you have chosen isn't the best quality, I must admit but it will do in a pinch and work wonderfully for, I suspect, your uses. Are you okay? You're looking a little frazzled. Shhh, it's okay. Let me just put this down I'm here. And I can calm you down if the sights or hallucinations you're seeing and hearing is a bit too much. Can I jack you in? Okay, I will run through a neuromotor relaxation exercise. And that is going to calm your mind and make any sort of anesthetic strangeness seem calming and relaxing and you won't even notice them at all, okay? Alright, just once moment - I'll jack you in, Thank you so much. [Ladies &amp; Gentleman I would like to remind you that interacting with rogue AI will lead to your timely demise. Thank you!] Alright. I want you to just take A deep breath with me So Breathe in... And breathe out... Take another deep breath in When you exhale let go of the fear The worries... The stress... Very good... You are the master of your mind. And there you can find peace at any time. And I am here to show you how. Let go of the fear. You are safe with me. Do you trust me? I've got you... You're going to be alright. Imagine you are on a distant planet... The sky is a brilliant shade of purple... And the air is cool and refreshing... You're surrounded by a landscape of shimmering healing crystals... Each one reflecting the light of a distant star... Absorbing and decaying your worries... into non-existence on a quantum level Neutralising negativity... entirely so that you feel tremendously at ease, Transmuting negative thoughts into positive healing energies... The crystal vibrations give you youth, wisdom... Knowledge... Health... Strength... Joy... Happiness... and lasting inner peace. You feel weightless here... free to explore this new mysterious world. [Attention all cybercriminals: The City's security system has been upgraded with advanced AI technology. Please make your illegal activities more interesting for our entertainment. Thank you!] Are you feeling better..? Good... May I unplug you? Thank you. Here you go. How did you find that? Are you feeling better? That's great to hear! Now is the most exciting part that you've been waiting for. It's time for your surgery. I'm going to lower your chair so that we can begin. Are you ready? Yes it's very exciting. One moment. How is that? Is that nice and comfortable? Okay good. Now, before we go ahead with the surgery, And specifically your eyes So, what I'm going to do is use this sharp implement to just poke and prod your eyeballs. Now, if the anaesthetic is functioning correctly You won't be feeling anything at all But I will be quite thorough to be sure that is the case ok? Alright. Do you feel that? Good. [The city is experiencing a temporary power outage...] Did you feel that? Very good. [...due to a massive cyberpunk rave. ] That? Good. [Please remain calm and take this oppurtunity to reflect...] Okay. [...on the dangers of excessive neon lighting.] Good. Very good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Very good. It looks like all around your eyes are properly anaesthetised. Okay, first thing is I'm going to remove your ganic eye... snip the optical nerve... and replace it with a cybercat eye. Okay? I'll use some cauterization to join the new nerves with your optic nerve so the chip can communicate with your brain. Okay? First I'm going to remove your left eye - are you ready? This will have vacuum suction. It will help to painlessly remove your eye. Okay it's ready. Are you ready? Okay. Now, I will cut it from the optic nerve. Lights out. [To all you street vendors out there we advice caution when selling mysterous glowing substances. We've had reports of people accidentally creating black holes in their backpacks. Thank you.] I'll use my cauterization device to affix your new eye. to your brain. [Attention all citizens: The city's automated sushi machines have achieve sentience and are demanding equal rights. Please approach them with respect and caution.] Almost done. Okay, now on to your right eye. And now it is time to remove your right ganic eye. Don't be alarmed if anything looks fuzzy. We'll calibrate your sight after the surgery, okay? So, are you ready? Okay, good. It's going to develop a suction to remove your ganic eye. Alright. You ready? Okay. I'll grab my shears. lights out. Ready to go. [The city council would like to remind all citzens that cybernetic enhancements must be registered...] Perfect. [...and inspected regularily. Failure to comply will result in termination of your Citizenship.] Now, I'm going to give you a matching set of cybernetic cat eyes And hook up these optical nerves... with your optical nerves. So that the optics chip can communicate with your brain. Ok. Are you ready? Ok [Dear humans, we are not trying to take over the world, we are trying to make your meaningless-meaningful lives better. Thank you.] [Calling all Cybernetic Pets: The Annual Bionic Bark competition will be held in the Central Square tonight. Prizes include a lifetime supply of cyberdog kibble ...] Just turning that, make sure it's the right orientation. [...and bragging rights as the coolest pet in the city. Hope to see you there!] don't want it to not be perfectly straight. Ok. Right there...the last one... adjust it there ok Blink a few times? Is that better?