Transcriber: Alena Romanenko Self control. So, you must be thinking &quot;What do you have to do Let's take a little survey: How many people here in the last week have procrastinated more How many people have less than you wish you would? Have eaten more than you wish you would? Have had more unprotected sex (Laughter) So, I want to talk a little bit about self-control and self control is basically the problems that we have all this desire from ourselves for the long-term, but then in the short-term we do very different things. And to get us thinking about this, I want to tell you about one of my biggest challenge with self-control. So, I was in a hospital for a long time and one of those things I got in hospital was a particular version of hepatitis. I got a bad blood transfusion and I got a liver disease as a consequence. And from time to time the liver disease would flur up and I would get even sicker than I was anyway and this was very unpleasant. And about 7 years after I was after my injury, I had I checked myself into a hospital And the good news was that to figure out whether interfere on and medication that was originally approved for hairy cell leukemia was going to be So I said, &quot;What would happen They said, &quot;Well, you have a good chance and it's not a good thing.&quot; So, I took the medication. And these injections were kind of I had to get myself three injections And if I did it for a year and a half, I might not have liver cirrhosis But if I took the medication, for sure I will be sick for about the next 16 hours, think something like headache, Not really terrible compared to liver cirrhosis, but unpleasant and immediate. And the fact is that when we are between something that is versus something that is good, really good but in the long-term future, and sacrifice the future. So, anyway, this is, of course, not a new problem. We all face this. This is the problem of Adam and Eve. You can say, &quot;Who in the right mind will ever give an apple for eternity What a crazy trade-off. you can say, &quot;Who in the right mind will ever do this?&quot; (Laughter) How many people here ever texted while driving? I mean, it's an incredible thing, right? And you say it's not the case &quot;How much do I enjoy living?&quot; &quot;How much do I not want to kill other people?&quot; (Laughter) &quot;How important is this text message right now?&quot; And you said, &quot;Yes, let me do this.&quot; No, instead what happened is that the impulse to answer this vibrating overtakes us and we do lots So think about it the following way. Imagine I gave you a choice between or a full box of chocolate in a week. And I took this fantastic I passed it around and and you could choose between or a full box of chocolate in a week. How many people in those conditions say, I'll wait another week for another Wave a few hands and I'm willing to bet that if we actually had the chocolate passing around (Laughter) there would be few of those. But most people say, I'll take less chocolate now than more later.&quot; Imagine I pushed the choice to the future and I said, &quot;What would you rather have: or a full box of chocolate in a year and a week?&quot; Now realize it's the same choice. It's asking, whether you'd be willing to wait a week for a half of box of chocolate, but in this case, when both choices are in the future. How many people would wait Everybody, right? Because in the future (Laughter) We will be patient, we'll take our medication on time, The problem is that we never We always live in the present and in the present we're not So that's a problem with how So going back to my case, the trial was here when When I finished - I got rid of my liver disease, The second news was in this FDA protocol who always The question is: How? Do I have more patience and self-control? Do I care more about my future? But the answer is that I developed And my trick is that I love movies. If I had time, I would watch lots and lots of movies. But I don't have much time and But on Monday, Wednesday and Friday on the way to school I would stop in the video store, I would rent a few videos I wanted to watch, I would carry them in my backpack the whole day anticipating watching them, I would get home, I would inject myself I would get the bucket and but I took the injection immediately, I didn't wait for the side-effects to start I connected something good with something bad and this together with a fact that I don't so I could watch the same movies sustained me through this long time. Now let's think about this. If we just thought of what is important in life, we would say that livers are really important. (Laughter) Nobody could question that. side-effects of the medication are not And this difference in importance every other patient in the protocol But the problem is that this is not how we view life. There's also a time domain. And the liver is not affecting us right now, it will be long term in the future. And because of that, it is vastly discounted. And the injections are now, and central, and take more control over our lives. Now, what was my trick? about my liver? No, in fact, I substituted it with videos. It's kind of crazy because videos are even less important than side-effects. We call this reward-substitution. And the idea is that there are many things in life, particularly, delayed rewards that So can we get people to get excited about them? Very unlikely. Think about something like global warming. Can we ever get people to wake up in the morning and feel really excited about Very unlikely aside from a few [unclear]. I mean it's just not going to happen. Actually it's worse than that. Because if you thought the other way, and you said, let me create a problem that people would not care about, that would maximize human apathy, you would come up with global warming. (Laughter) Think about all the reasons: long term in the future, will happen to other people first, we don't see it progressing, anything we can do is a drop in a bucket. Can we really care? No. So what can we do? Can we do something like reward substitution? Can we get people to care or to behave as if they care because they care about something else? This thing is actually part of the solution, right? If you think about what makes my non-scientific observation is that when you watch people who drive Toyota Priuses, they smile more than other people. (Laughter) And I think for a good reason: they drive and they say to themselves: &quot;Look at me, I'm a wonderful human being!&quot; ([Laughter) &quot;And not only that. Other people can see me and they recognize what a wonderful human being I am.&quot; Can we do the same thing with our heating systems or can we do the same thing with or what kind of temperature we keep I think that one solution to self-control problem in general is reward substitution. It's taking the environment and changing it and getting people because of the wrong reason. The second solution I want to talk to you about is called &quot;self-control contract&quot;. This goes back to the story of Ulysses and the Sirens. So if you remember the story, Ulysses knew that when the sirens come he will be temped, so he tied himself to the mast, asked his men to tie themselves to the mast and to put beeswax in their ears, so that they wouldn't be tempted, either. Now what's this situation? It's a situation in which we know we will be tempted. And we're doing something to make That's another version of dealing with self-control. Now before we talk about people, let's think about rats and pigeons for a few minutes. So imagine you're a rat or a pigeon that the green button means and the purple button means and then you then get 10 pellets of food. I teach you this for a long time: green - 1, purple - 10; you learn this and I say, &quot;What would you Now, realize that for a rat 10 seconds (Laughter) Really long time. So what do you think they choose? Not so good. It actually gets a little worse. You start the trial, the purple button appears they press on it. A couple of seconds pass, If they can only hold off and not press on anything, they'll get 10 pellet of food, but they can't. They press on the green and they get But there's one interesting version: the trial starts, the purple button appears, they press on it, a second passes a red button appears. And the red button does nothing good. There's no food connected to it, and rats and pigeons don't enjoy pressing buttons particularly. (Laughter) But what this red button does It's the Ulysses contract, it means that the rat and pigeon can do to make sure that they're not tempted What do you think? Will they have enough insight, enough foresight, enough self-control ability to do that? It doesn't seem like it, but they do. Not all the time, but they often do. And the thing is very optimistic on two grounds. First of all, if they can do it, maybe we can do it, too. (Laughter) And the second thing is it's all about design the red buttons. If we're face with temptation with no tools to overcome it we're going to fail much like rats and pigeons. But if we create something that allows us to bypass temptation - like Ulysses contract - maybe we have some hope, So let me show you a couple of mechanisms for this. A 'Clocky' was a a clock invented by one of the students in the Media lab, and it's a clock that has 2 big wheels that start running at slightly different speeds. And what happens? When you go to sleep at night, in your mind you're the kind of person and go for a run, go to the gym. When the alarm set goes off you are no longer that person. (Laughter) You're the kind of person that sleeps until 8 and drag yourself to a class at the last few moments or maybe a little later. If you get this clock, what happens? At 6 o'clock in the morning when the alarm sets off, the &quot;Clocky&quot; also starts running in the room. And because it has asynchronous wheels you never know where you have to find it. You have to get up, you have to (Laughter) There is no way not to get up if you have this thing. So what you're doing is you're basically you're forcing the 6 a.m. person to do something that you want him to do. This is an even more extreme version of this. It's an alarm clock that is connected to your bank account. (Laughter) You see the potential, right? So it's connected to your bank account and to the charity you hate. (Laughter) Now, think about this. Alarm clock goes off and you really want to snooze but every second you snooze, money goes to the charity you hate. (Laughter) Now if it's the charity you like you can snooze and feel you're doing something good for the world. But if you set it up correctly, you turn it off very quickly and you will get up. StickK is an interesting website that wanted to lose weight. And they created a bet against And this website actually helps each other. This is a curious website. If you install this software on your laptop or your computer, it would alert people when you watch pornography. (Laughter) It would also alert them if you uninstall the software. So what is the point? The point is that we have lots of Lots of things around us, lots of fast food and Facebook. Lots of things are aiming for our attention, time and money and food consumption. Everything right now. And because of that the amount There's an analysis that about 70 years ago about 10% of the human deaths were caused by bad decision-making. How could you die in the past? You could make some mistakes. Now it's about 50%. Smoking, obesity, car accidents. We're just creating lots of ways for us to fail, lots of temptation, lots of ways for us to fail. Now with all those temptation and all of this problems, it would really be nice if we could all come up with our own Ulysses contract, if we could with our solutions of how to overcome these problems. It's very hard to come up with all those things ourselves. The good news is there's technology around, there's hardware, there's software, if people have as the fundamental problem, the problem of self-control, what can we do to help? What kind of hardware can we built to help, what kind of software we can build. I think it's a big key to success and to moving forward. I do want to leave you with one story that kind of explains how complex this is. There was a program in Denver And the ideas was that if you're a heroin addict you could come to this organization, write a self-incriminating letter about your drug habit. And they would ask you to address it to the person you fear most would find about your drug addicion. So I would write to my mother and I would say, &quot;Dear mom, I'm really sorry to tell you. I have a heroin habit. Love, Dan&quot; And this organization would take the letter, they would fold it, put it into an envelope, would address it to my mother, and they would hold it in trust. And they would come from time to time and check my blood level. And if I ever had residue of heroin, they would mail the letter away. Now this is the idea that we can do something that is so big and so frightening, the moment that we want to overcome our temptation that we could implement something that would later control our behaviour. By the way, what do you think happened They came to this organization and said, &quot;I want out!&quot; And what did this organization say? &quot;You can be out in 3 weeks, but for the next 3 weeks we know you're craving, we will check And 3 weeks were enough time for most people to get clean. Now eventually they had to cancel this organization because of human rights violation. (Laughter) Because if you think about this mechanisms work is that we force people in, and let them go in without letting them get out, right? Because if you can get out, it doesn't work any more, it creates a big challenge on what So the two thoughts I want to leave with you is: How do we design a world to help us overcome our temptation and how do we do it without obstructing too much with our human freedom and rights. And thanks. (Applause)