"paradox" is a funny word. it's used for a lot of things that don't paradoxes are things that contradict themselves, in some way. that's about as specific as you can get that people tend to call "paradoxes". now, I've come up with my own original system is more helpful than just having one single I think the best way to talk about paradoxes each of those can have an actual proper definition. this is pretty different from most of the I think this method makes at least a little so, I'm jan Misali, and let's go over with different examples in each type! that's paradoxes. should be fun though! the first and most important type of a paradox these are situations where every possible this is the primary definition of "paradox", called "paradoxes" due to their resemblance I should note, in formal logic the word "contradiction" just any time something cannot be true, whereas be true, but also can't be false. so, for those of you who actually study this that's what I'm generally referring to. one absolute classic paradox in this category "this sentence is false." that's it, that's the whole paradox. short and simple. if this sentence is false, then it's true, but since it's true, that means it can't which means it's true. no matter what, you cannot meaningfully give possible explanation is wrong. it's a logical contradiction. this basic paradox has been restated in countless all just different takes on this one concept. it's really the most straightforward logical okay, so here's a more advanced example. I happen to really enjoy when paradoxes start and the crocodile paradox (or sometimes "dilemma") let's say a crocodile kidnaps a child. the crocodile then goes to the kids' parents I'll give you your child back if and only to give you your child back or not!" so, assuming the parents do actually want now's your chance to figure it out yourself, if the parents say "we think you will give then the crocodile can do whatever it wants like, it could say "that's right! you have solved my Crocodile's Riddle, fair but it could just as easily say "tough luck! I have no intentions of returning your child and both answers would be following the rules but, here's the tricky part, if the parents our kid back at all!" then it's the same self-contradiction thing gives them their kid back, then their prediction to give them their kid back, but if the crocodile prediction was right, so the crocodile should no matter what, the crocodile cannot do what a paradox! here's another classic, the barber paradox. this one is pretty well-known. suppose there's a town where everyone is a barber, who shaves everyone who doesn't else. but the barber lives in this town too, and the barber? you often see this one framed as a riddle, clever workaround. and there's a whole bunch is usually stated in natural language like that you can exploit. depending on the phrasing, you could come doesn't need to be shaved at all. these self-referential paradoxes show up all that same idea. you have some setup that leads to a statement so that if it's true it's false, and if in general, whenever a logical contradiction made must be wrong. sometimes, though, that assumption turns out form this statement is internally consistent if you have some sort of formal logical system, like "this sentence is false", then that can be shown to be either true or false. uh, does that make sense? like, if you're hypothetically inventing and it turns out that it's possible to ask do not contain themselves contain itself?" within the bounds of that system, that on and has contradictions. another common type of logical contradiction itself, two things contradict each other. there's a really unfun variant of the liar most well-known example of this subtype is "what happens when an unstoppable force these two terms are kinda poorly defined, this is supposed to mean. if the unstoppable force is capable of moving but if the immovable object isn't moved so then, at least one of these two things it's a contradiction. a more concrete version of this idea is like, through any shield, and a shield strong enough but of course, those two things can't simultaneously each other, so at least one of those descriptions an even more fun example of two contradictory as we all know, cats always land on their side down. so, if you attach a piece of bread (butter cat, what would happen? since this one is describing real phenomena, here. the reason buttered bread usually lands butter it is heavier. but if the side that doesn't have butter side with the cat is heavier now. so, you'd expect the bread to land cat-side and, unless the cat's reflexes are thrown back, you would also expect the cat to land unless, of course, the adhesive used to attach which case the bread and cat could become on its feet and the buttered bread to land okay, you definitely get the point by now, cool, let's do a couple more subtle logical category. there are infinitely many natural numbers. some of them are interesting, and others aren't. what exactly it means for a number to be interesting person, but we can generally state that a property that sets it apart from the other if we assume, then, that only some natural is an infinite set of natural numbers that and, in this set, one number must be the smallest property, which makes it an interesting number. this paradox is normally presented as a joke, implies that all numbers must be interesting. of course, there are several other assumptions it would make just as much sense to conclude boringly, that this notion of an "interesting with, and cannot be precisely defined. one more contradiction before moving on to in this category. it's another one with a weird setup, so so, a prisoner is told that they're going point in the next workweek. they're not told what day next week it'll it happens when the prisoner isn't expecting the prisoner thinks about this. the hanging will happen at noon, on some day when it happens. they quickly realize that they won't be past noon on Thursday without being hanged, being hanged, so it wouldn't be unexpected. but since that means it must happen on some rule out Thursday too, for the same reason. and following that same exact reasoning, they dates, concluding that the only way for their happen next week at all. so when they're hanged on Wednesday it's this paradox is great. like all of these story-based ones, there's contradiction here, but in its purest mathematical there are a lot of angles people have taken exploring none of those, because I'd rather the second type of paradox is what I'm going this is a pretty weird thing to call these, an impossible question is exactly what it to answer. however, not all impossible questions are Bilbo's riddle "what have I got in my it does have a correct answer, and the person is, it's just impossible for anyone else this isn't a paradox, and it's also not the other type of question I'm excluding that are impossible because they're logical in the first group. so, what I mean by a "normal impossible to answer, but not because there is a correct because all possible answers lead to contradictions. this will be easier to understand with examples, I'm pretty sure this is the third time I've it's a very famous thought experiment, and normal impossible question. for those who are unfamiliar, imagine a ship. as the ship ages, its individual pieces break, likewise, members of the crew grow old and replace them. eventually, the entire ship consists of replacement so then, is it the same ship, or at some point there's clearly something paradoxical about same kind of paradox as a standard logical after all, both basic answers to the question real way to "prove" which one is definitively there's also a bonus harder version of this being discarded when they stop functioning, those pieces are reassembled into the exact so then you can ask, which of these two ships the ship of Theseus is very similar to another, of the heap. imagine a heap of sand. if you were to very carefully remove one grain heap. but if you keep doing that for long enough, isn't a heap. and two grains of sand are so, at what point in that process does the this one is less interesting than the ship way more obvious what's going on. the word "heap" just doesn't have a way to unambiguously say exactly how many this is true for most words, and people sometimes fine. there are, of course, some normal impossible the Boltzmann brain is a pretty freaky one. it's commonly accepted that simple explanations true than more complicated explanations. you know, Occam's razor. however, if this idea is taken to its extreme, explanation is for the nature of reality itself. after all, what's simpler? that the universe exists, and is full of complex observe it, or that the universe is mostly hallucinating that it exists in a more complex thinking about this one too hard is uh, a so let's not! aside from logical contradictions, the second "paradox" is a time paradox, a paradox these count as normal unanswerable questions, impossible. the most well-known time paradox is the grandfather suppose you went back in time, and killed this would mean that one of your parents would either, so you wouldn't be able to go back that's a logical contradiction! but time travel is only a theoretical thing, it working. there are other popular models of time travel like, say, going back in time creates an alternate alter the course of that future, but not the or maybe weird predestination stuff happens in the first place, a version of time travel there are many different explanations we could to resolve the grandfather paradox, but there's quote unquote "correct" here, thus making subatomic particles have this annoying tendency being observed or not. there's this concept of a "superposition", simultaneously, but once the particle is observed, randomly picks exactly one state to be in, a lot of people, including a few famous scientists out that this doesn't sound right. like, there's no way that can be literally but it certainly appears to be the case, from because I wouldn't do a good job explaining one huge problem with this particular model as an "observation", and that's where so, completely hypothetically, let's say it makes some quantum measurement, like, say, and then depending on its reading, will then and it has a 50% chance of doing each one. then, this device is locked in a box with what happens? at a quantum level, a particle either decays, but nobody's observed it, so it's in a then when the machine measures it, it either but nobody observes this either, so the machine so, the machine simultaneously releases the this would mean that until someone opens the quantum superposition of being both alive unless the cat counts as an observer, then got poisoned or didn't. or maybe the machine itself is an observer, was made. or maybe this model of quantum mechanics is superposition collapsing when observed isn't to explain the annoying behavior of subatomic like other normal impossible questions, this are plenty of ways you could explain this, way you'd ever be able to determine which okay, last one for this category. assuming it exists, the universe is very big, a very long time to find signs that there one planet. and yet, nobody's found anything. so, where is everybody? there are tons of possible explanations for contradiction, but unless someone does eventually this question is impossible to answer. maybe we just haven't been looking hard or maybe we've already seen signs of alien we expect that nobody knew what it was. or maybe there's alien civilizations all for some reason. or maybe life is rare and special, and Earth to ever be able to know they're there. so, definitely not a logical contradiction, it a "normal impossible question". the third type of paradox is what I'm going what you might see referred to as a "veridical these are things that look like they're provably true facts. from what I can tell just from talking to people don't think things that can be definitively a paradox shouldn't have an answer, you but that's the benefit of dividing paradoxes that way, we can acknowledge that this is and normal impossible questions, but at the that is often called a "paradox". anyway, time for some examples! an archer fires an arrow at a target. but if you think about it, how exactly is after all, to get to the target, it must first but before that, it must make it one quarter you can keep dividing like this forever, and points that the arrow must pass before reaching how is motion possible at all? this is one of Zeno's paradoxes, and it's impossible question. this is simply a counterintuitive fact: yes, many segments, and it remains finite. uh, in the real world there is a theoretical before it stops being measurable, but this to worry about that. abstractly speaking, yes, all finite lines is completely fine. it's a little weird if you're not fully but it's certainly not a contradiction. okay, this one starts with a puzzle. in a room with two randomly-selected people, they'll have the same birthday. it's not exactly one in 365 because of the February 29th, and calculating the probability but the point is that it's about one in but then, if you have 367 people in the same in there share a birthday is now 100%, because be possible for every person in that room everyone involved uses the same calendar system so, somewhere between two people and 367 people, a birthday switches over from being more likely so, when does that switch occur? if you do the math, the answer turns out to it just takes 23 people for the probability and that's weird, isn't it? like, really? just 23 people? huh! in general. the most well-known example of this, I think, this has been explained a billion times so so, you're on a game show. there's three doors, and behind one of them a car or something, and behind the other two problem we'll assume you don't want. you're given a chance to pick one of those but before opening it to reveal what you've two doors, specifically one that has a goat you're then given an opportunity to change do you stick with your first choice, or do a common guess is that changing your answer two possibilities, so it's a fifty-fifty but in fact, when the host revealed where the underlying probability! let's analyze the different cases to see one third of the time, your initial guess the host opens one of the two goat doors, in this case, swapping is the incorrect choice. in the other two thirds of cases, your initial the host opens the other goat door, so the correct choice. since this case happens twice as often as as likely to get you the car as not swapping I've found that this makes more sense when way more doors. let's say there's a hundred doors, and you make your choice, then the host opens 1% of the time, you picked the car as your a goat door, and in the other 99% of cases, opens every single other goat door, and the in other words, the probability of getting of your first guess randomly happening to the opposite of weird probability questions, the faster you move through space, the slower this usually doesn't matter, but when something observer, it makes a measurable difference. suppose an identical twin becomes an astronaut, they then spend several years living in space, that can travel at speeds very close to the however, when they return to Earth, special will have passed on Earth than the astronaut speed. for every three years they spend traveling on Earth, meaning that they could spend six they are now four years younger than their this might sound impossible, which is why just a true thing about the universe. now for one of my favorite "counterintuitive one. suppose you're trying to investigate the every time you find an example of a black the claim, and you can be slightly more confident but if you see just one counterexample, a immediately disprove the hypothesis. here's the weird part. the statement "all ravens are black" is, the statement "everything that isn't black right? like, these two statements have to either way for only one of them to be true. just like how every time you see a black raven ravens are black, every time you see something evidence for the claim that everything that it's also evidence that all ravens are black. you might think that this sounds obviously like, are you telling me that if I find a black and isn't a raven, it counts as evidence a black raven would be? on the face of it, it's just absurd. however, let's reexamine the claim. "all ravens are black" is a really weird because the only way to completely prove it show that all of them are black. but you actually still wouldn't be done, you actually have found all of the ravens. and how do you prove that? well, you'd need to demonstrate, somehow, none of them are ravens. because remember, if just one raven that isn't claim, so you need to be completely sure that completely proven the hypothesis. but if you actually have found all the ravens, things that aren't black. most things that aren't black can be ruled green apples, but some of them would be birds ravens. and if you were to completely prove that none that is, show that everything that isn't the proof that all ravens are black. it's weird, right? it's very counterintuitive, and some people but there's no contradiction here! it's all completely sound, as long as you example of something being a certain way is it might be a really small and insignificant apple, a white shoe, or even a red herring, let's think about the lottery. a whole bunch of people buy tickets, and then jackpot. to keep the numbers simple, let's people, and they all have an equal probability every individual person, then, has a one in a point one percent chance. this means that you can say with 99.9% confidence not win. however, even though it's reasonable to win, someone definitely will win this lottery. one person's ticket is guaranteed to be this, I hope, should make sense. this is normal probability stuff. but it implies something that's kinda weird. even if two statements separately can each that doesn't mean that the two statements confidence. more abstractly, if it is rational to assume not be rational to assume "A and B". this isn't really a contradiction, but it a "paradox". speaking of gambling! imagine a game of chance played with a fair all you need to do is flip the coin over and at the start of the game, the prize is $2. take home whatever the prize is at that point, and you get to flip again. mathematically speaking, you flip a coin until win is two raised to the power of the total so then, on average, how much money are you what would be a fair price for a casino to over and over? it's simple! half the time, you get tails right away, so if the first flip is heads, which happens a one in two chance of flipping tails and of winning $4, so we can add another $1 to then after that, there's a one in eight chance of getting $16, and so on. you can keep doing this forever. the probabilities get exponentially smaller, greater, at a rate which exactly cancels out so, the average amount you are expected to a casino could charge as much money as they would always be a good deal. this paradox shows a key difference between and "the value you should expect". there is, in theory, no upper bound for how exponential growth is a very powerful thing, getting heads just nineteen times in a row it's just that the odds of that happening even though this is a game where half the chance of winning arbitrarily large amounts yes, mathematically, the average amount of but that doesn't mean that's what you also, in practice, real casinos don't have if we put an upper bound on how much money order to prevent themselves from going bankrupt, results. to calculate the average amount you'd win, amount the casino is willing to give you, you can do this easily by converting that many digits long the number is. so, if you're at a casino that refuses to this game, on average your prize would be is less than infinity. imagine a bar. it can be a real one, if you want. now, no matter what this bar is like, there you can say "if this person is drinking, this is provably true, but it's a little familiar with how formal logic works. the thing that makes this work is that uh, hold true for that person, it's just that where this is true. let's go case by case. first, if everyone at the bar currently is literally anyone at the bar. yes, this person is drinking, and yes, everyone drinking everyone is drinking" is a true in any other case, at least one person is in this case, this statement is true about this person is not drinking, and not everyone correct to say "if this person is drinking, this definitely feels like cheating, I think, natural language and formal logic. you could rephrase it as "at any bar, there's unless everyone is drinking". this means almost the same thing, but to me going on. last one of these before moving on to the one. most people's friends, on average, have or, in other words, most people don't have this is a little bit weird, but it is measurably straightforward. so, okay, most people have an average amount friends, and also some people only have a you might expect that if you examine how many would be roughly the same, right? like, most of your friends have a similar them have a lot more friends, and some of but this isn't actually true, because people a lot of people. the number of friends your friends have will to be friends with someone who has two hundred who only has two friends. after all, two hundred people are friends and only two people are friends with that this means that the distribution of how many favor of people with more friends, implying friends than they do. the final two categories of paradox are the least likely to be considered paradoxes. the fourth category is the counterpart of counterintuitive facts, remember, are things that there's some sort of contradiction, so then, these are things that sound like sort of contradiction, and that's because you sometimes see these referred to as "falsidical if you have a right triangle where two of of the third side? the answer is the square root of two, but well, what if we approximate it? this square has a perimeter of four units. these two edges, the ones that aren't shared length of two. what we can then do is take this top-left like this, creating a two-step staircase. as we can see, this staircase also has a length the thing is, we can just keep doing this, if we repeat this process infinitely many diagonal line is exactly two! therefore, the square root of two is equal this sounds like it can't be true, and that's it's a math prank! multiple math youtubers have done full deep short version is that even though it looks to the line we're trying to measure, the it's a weird, infinitely-zig-zaggy thing. this method of approximating length doesn't okay, here's a classic math prank. when you look into different "falsidical of this one single idea. I'm going to call it the "infinite chocolate if you take a bar of chocolate, and make these like this, and what you get is the same bar if you repeat this procedure over and over, one bar! this sounds like it can't possibly be true, if you look really closely, there's a little and that gap is the same area of the one extra again, there's a bunch of different labels different ways you can take one shape, and like the same shape, but isn't. another really common type of math prank is that one equals zero. there's a whole bunch of these, and they the rules of math, then you get the consequences the fun part, of course, is seeing how subtly this one, for example, hides its trick in if you want to figure out what it's doing here, this step is a sneaky division by zero. math prank! we already talked about the Monty Hall problem, you're given two envelopes. both envelopes have money in them, but one you're not told which one is which. you then choose one of the envelopes at random, the one you chose, or keeping the one you and in fact, you can change your mind as many final answer. so then, what should you do? unlike the Monty Hall problem, you don't choice, so the probabilities should be completely there is no reason it should make a difference well, let's think about what would happen the envelope you chose has some unknown amount let's say it's "A". half the time, you would have chosen the envelope a value of 2A. the other half of the time, the other envelope so, on average, you can expect that the envelope a quarter times A. this is greater than A, you can then go through this same line of actually want to switch again. you can then keep doing this infinitely many getting to keep either of the envelopes. this is, obviously, flawed reasoning, but the problem in the reasoning here actually here's the explanation I think makes the while it is true that if you switch you'll other half of the time, averaging these two value of A is different in these two cases. let's say the value of the smaller envelope 2x. you have an equal chance of choosing either will have a value of one and a half x. then what happens when you swap? half the time, you're going from the smaller a value of x, and the other half the time, smaller one, so you're losing a value of these two cases cancel out, and so on average is zero. three guests check into a hotel. they're charged $30, so they pay $10 each. however, after checking in, the hotel manager actually only should have been charged $25. so, a bellhop is given $5, and is instructed however, the bellhop, realizing that you can't that the better thing to do would be to keep guests just one dollar back in return, and to be. so then, the three guests originally paid they really only paid $9 each, for a total took, and that's a total of $29. but at other one dollar go? the trick here is that this question seems asking a different thing. it looks like we're keeping track of what checked in, but we're not doing that. if you do keep track of where the money ended $3, and the bellhop has $2. these numbers so, what's happening in the original paradox? the guests paid $30, but were refunded $3, $27, the bellhop has two, and the hotel has what this paradox does, is it takes the amount portion that the bellhop kept. we took the number thirty, subtracted three isn't thirty. my favorite math prank, and I think one of that all horses are the same color. in any group of horses, we can say that all if it is impossible to select two horses from so, under this definition, any group of zero additionally, any group of one horses are now, this is important. if we have a horse group of size zero and the horse we added actually is, this preserves are the same color. this idea can be generalized to n horses. let's say you have a group of n horses, n horses are always the same color. now, add one more horse to this group. this horse might be a different color from we might now have a group of horses that are however, if we then remove one of the other a different group of size n. we already know that n horses are always the must be the same color as all the other horses and, the horse we removed is already known in the group, since it came from a group of we now reinsert that horse, we now have a are all the same color. therefore, if for some number n you know that that any group of n+1 horses are also always and since we already know that this is true be true for a group of horses of any size. therefore, all horses are the same color. I love this one. the place where this proof goes wrong is actually for a proof by induction like this, you need some base case, and two, that if something n+1. this proof almost accomplishes that. the trouble is that the argument for why you group all the same color only works if the two horses. or, in simpler terms, the reason not all horses to have two horses that are different colors. the fifth and final classification of paradox veridical paradoxes, or counterintuitive facts, are really true. falsidical paradoxes, or math pranks, are really false. but what about the often overlooked category at all, but are still called "paradox" these are what I've decided to call "one and getting it published". these are, "paradoxes", where it's genuinely supposed to be than it is to explain why there this is my favorite category. a good place to start with these is another did you know that white horses aren't horses? you might think that sounds wrong, but think you could be referring to a black horse, or but if you say "white horse", you're, horse. that means that "white horse" and "horse" white horses aren't horses. this is just a confusing way to say "the not synonyms". that's it, that's the whole paradox. "white horse" doesn't mean the same not really a contradiction, not even that got really confused and it's called a paradox let's say a vote is held, in a fair democracy. there are two options for policies up for now imagine a person who's a really big they love voting, so they decide to vote for but, as a fan of democracy, they also believe the one that gets more votes. so, what happens if the policy they voted that the thing they voted for should happen, thing that got the most votes should happen, those things can't both happen! make up your mind, hypothetical democracy this one is very fun. I'm not even completely sure what assumptions like a real contradiction. like, yes, a person can accept one of two a preference for one over the other. where's the problem? with a preface where the author acknowledges but when you think about it, at least when that's a contradiction! because if the author went through all the that they believe the book is accurate. so then what's the point of th- wait, no they don't, right? I'm sorry, it's just so obvious why this the author doesn't necessarily believe that that's literally what the preface means! "I tried to find and correct errors, but this paradox is so good. it's another one that's supposed to be beliefs, but like, that's just not what's the author spells out exactly what their beliefs This article has multiple issues. if you have an office on the bottom floor elevator, you might notice that the elevator but that doesn't make sense! where is is the elevator going, if it isn't does the elevator escape into the sky, and to replace it? almost every paragraph on this Wikipedia article I should be fair to these one-guy-getting-confused they're not always cases where someone genuinely is really impossible to explain. often, they're used to demonstrate why a as many other paradoxes. my final example is a top tier one-guy-getting-confused a common assumption made in formal logic is in natural language, this isn't always true. for example. "the temperature is rising." "the temperature is ninety". "therefore, ninety is rising". however, the number ninety is not rising. it is remaining constant, at ninety. this is a contradiction! I love the temperature paradox. it demonstrates the differences between natural like, nobody would ever interpret these statements this is the "white horses are not horses" two things are equivalent", when it usually and if you interpret these statements, not "the temperature is rising" means "the temperature was recently". "the temperature is ninety" means "the therefore, "ninety degrees is higher than which, is true! it's not even remotely a contradiction. a perfect one-guy-getting-confused paradox, is just a hypothetical guy who exists just what even is a paradox? from its common usage, that covers all the things it can mean. but this is also true about most words. to understand how a word is used, giving it wrong approach. that said, I think the things that are generally main groups. there are things that are logically impossible explain for normal reasons unrelated to logic, true, things that appear impossible because that don't seem that hard to explain at but are just called paradoxes anyway. my list here is definitely not comprehensive, of things that are called "paradoxes" also, exactly which group one of these paradoxes what things count as unintuitive, or what a lot on what things you happen to know about. I don't have a grand conclusion here, so