U.S. malls have shaped experience. And most of them one, and includes a food court, most important part of any mall department stores like JCPenney, supreme, but department stores spelling trouble for the have struggled to compete competitors or rivals with footprints. Malls had a symbiotic At the anchor close the malls Melissa Repko: It used to be stores would draw people to the through many malls, top malls, different stores stores like of the other stores like a anchor of a mall, in some cases walk through its doors beyond parking lot. Unknown: Department stores are ever changing tastes and demand slow death of department stores ones that are closing are their own way with the customer. one reason or another. So it's have an obsolete situation or the death of the American mall AI research found that retail nearly $819 billion. Some of pivoted toward an experiential stores with grocery chains, rinks, and in some cases, even new experiences and brands are retail therapy. The aftermath of pandemic, challenging for more landlord. were closed for a period of time closures activity loss. malls have bounced back to near customers sought out experiences Department stores haven't been Melissa Repko: years we've seen have anchored malls struggled to a lot of their shoppers have harder time drawing in younger that they like Unknown: another headwind bifurcation of consumers. divided into two groups, luxury Luxury shoppers are still called Class A malls which have alarms of the mall retail a more affluent consumer, and the tenant is it's pretty clear, in those areas where the most amount of income going through very important to retail, the shrinking middle persistent inflation, leaving discretionary retail budget. stores, and strip malls retailers have been able to department stores. by attracting Melissa Repko: across the opening the most new stores are like off price chains. And those bite out of department stores dress or a pair of shoes that department store carries for Maxx or they may go to Marshalls Department stores have been hit competition that really cuts industry. On the one hand, off price names like TJ Maxx and they're facing more competition other players that are online. to big box players like target pillows and towels and dresses competitors have made department move faster to keep up and to Unknown: owners are sifting left by empty anchor stores if not hundreds of 1000s of It's great for the for the mall transform what these shopping the customer their their journey take a photo and they want to evoked. And I think that when we providing all that it's a great you know, smell the maybe a clean environment, you can taste fabric and you can see other you know subconsciously when you you're those senses are being you're like, I like that place I tremendous benefit once we do open and then you know, that has on your shopping center, there has been good demand and advantage of some of that space, to redevelop and find fresh new of them all that in some cases point of the newer types of multifamily, some cases meditel In some cases, we've also omni channel strategy to importance of having, obviously physical brick and mortar stores as you once thought you having an omni channel strategy than two, the halo effect from retailers American malls are generally formats per square foot. In dollars spent on retail goods, through malls in the first Coresight research. Melissa Repko: A lot of their outlook. They don't expect they don't expect it to be a anticipate it's another year of of coming back from a period of the pandemic and also recovering pricing after a period of Unknown: have proven to be made the same. And many are profitability, those who are for the demise of the mall. That stepping back there are probably country. There were last By most few years back malls unable to shift to the new 2022. The number of malls in the But it's not all doom and gloom open than closed in 2020. To a research firm core site when you look at a mall absolutely we customer a plethora of reasons not just be to buy apparel, it to work there could be to live work playing. I meant going to the mall and I think we experiential element that the continue to play a meaningful