It's April 9th, 1918 Battle of the Lys, In the trenches of Northern France, 22 year old Anibal Augusto Milhais and the 2nd Infantry Division of the Portuguese Expeditionary Corps waits under cover They've been enduring battle for nearly a year, and this bombardment for days. It was of a ferocity not seen before, the sounds of the explosions almost merging together into a single constant note. The never-ending hellfire keeping the soldiers awake as they dread the possibility Then, in the early morning the artillery stops. The trenches fall under an eerie silence as the constant explosions come to a sudden end, replaced by a distant thunder. Milhais emerges from his dugout in the second line of trenches and takes a look outside, weary soldiers all across the line do the same. The fog is incredibly thick and visibility is such that he can barely see his own trench beyond a short distance, let alone No Man's Land. The rhythmic thunder of explosions reaches his ears, becoming louder and louder with each impact, he keeps his eyes on No Man's Land, Then, through the thick fog, headed straight towards him. Shreds of sandbags, wood, and dirt fly in all directions as the brutal bombardment decimates the front trench before stopping right between the front and second trenches. Milhais runs to his machine gun nest, ready to fight. But as the dust settles down, it reveals a line of fellow Portuguese soldiers standing around and dropping into the torn remains of the front trench. Milhais holds fire. Were those survivors of the bombardment? He turns to a group of 5 Scottish soldiers looking at the same scene alongside him and asks them "Do you recognize them?" The Scots seem equally confused and unhelpfully respond "They are Portuguese" Gunshots and screams sound from the front trench. They aren't Portuguese. Milhais readies his aim and desperately searches for targets as battle rages in front of him, friend and foe clash in chaotic and confusing Milhais can only see glimpses of Portuguese helmets moving around in the front trench. Then, ghostly figures emerge from the fog in No Man's Land. More Germans. Milhais unleashes his weapon, They fall in droves, some take cover inside craters in others charge over their dead countrymen towards the Portuguese trench. Few make it. The Portuguese cover the retreat of their fellow soldiers and take out any German that tries to charge. Some of the Portuguese find themselves trapped and are forced to make a run for it, The Germans take over the front trench completely and redouble the attack on the second trench. It's a hellish scene, taking out entire waves on his own More soldiers appear from No Man's Land. The defenders fire upon them inflicting heavy casualties, but they are far too many Now reinforced, they charge up the communication trenches led by the elite Stormtrooper units. Realizing that the position is about to be overrun the Portuguese retreat to a supply trench even further back. Milhais holds as long He runs up the trench system, Escaping the trenches entirely, There he finds a bunch of allied soldiers also taking cover from the German onslaught. They are tired and demoralized, "We are nothing but prisoners" Milhais interjected, "We're not". He looks over the dirt wall. On the other side he spots a group of Germans taking cover inside a bomb crater, they shout and charge towards them, Milhais pulls up his Lewis gun and fires upon them alongside a handful of the hiding soldiers, the group of Germans don't stand a chance and Milhais then looks back to the fearful soldiers, points them towards the road and tells them "Get out, I'll cover you!" The unarmed soldiers flee up the road, disappearing into the fog as Milhais sets his attention back to the field of battle in front of him. He spots more advancing Germans, the Germans take cover in the trenches and shell craters. Milhais fires bursts of suppressive fire on top of their positions, keeping the Germans pinned down while he buys essential time for the allies to retreat. Then picking up his gun he runs several meters to the side, then he peeks out in his new position and fires a burst of bullets over the Germans' heads before relocating again. He repeats the motion over and over, firing bursts of machine gun fire from The Germans see nothing but a wall of dirt with muzzle flashes shining through the fog from multiple different locations, they keep their heads down believing they are in the sights of a much larger force. Milhais keeps up the act, fearlessly and tirelessly facing off an entire German attack force on his own. He picks up ammunition from fallen soldiers to prolong his fight as long as possible, but inevitably he runs out of ammunition. Defenseless now, Milhais dashes towards a piece of tent canvas that lay abandoned on the side of the road next to a dead horse and hides underneath it. The Germans realize the fire has stopped Undeterred they push on, giving chase to the fleeing Portuguese and allied soldiers. Milhais stays under the canvas motionless. Stilling his breath unless he give himself away. He can hear them running past him as he lay there. Hours pass Finally he emerges from his hideout, but he is now alone behind German lines, Around him there is nothing but death and destruction. The place is as quiet as the grave... Carefully he runs across an open field War was yet to leave its ugly scar upon these lands, so the trees and wetlands of the area have gone mostly untouched thus far. This gives Milhais some much needed cover, allowing him to navigate through the wilderness unseen, He moves carefully, As night falls he is forced to find somewhere to rest, The next day he presses on with renewed energy. While walking he spots a Scottish major laying in a swamp, he's exhausted but uninjured. Milhais picks up the Scot from the swamp and helps him recover, and together they continue the track towards the allied lines. 3 days after the start of the attack the men manage to slip through the front lines... Both Milhais and the Scottish major were warmly welcomed by the remains of their units and the British reinforcements. Anibal Augusto Milhais would continue fighting in the war and went on to achieve amazing feats For his actions he was awarded Portugal's highest distinction, the Military Order of the Tower and of the Sword, of Valour, Loyalty and Merit as well as the French Legion d'Honneur, both of which were delivered on the battlefield in front of 15,000 soldiers. Major Joao Ferreira do Amaral presenting his medals said "You are Milhais, but you are worth millions of soldiers" He became the most decorated Portuguese soldier and a household name back at home. After the war he lived a humble life, he married and had nine children. The Portuguese government renamed his home village in his honor... where he passed away in 1970 If you haven't yet, please subscribe to the channel and please watch more videos of ours! Thank you!