The President: I'm pleased the Childhood Cancer Access, and Research It's a big deal. Very important. The people up here have I want to thank Secretary along with the members of including Senators Thank you, Senator Capito: Thank you. The President: Dean Heller, Right, Dean? Senator Heller: Yes, sir. The President: Right, Dean? Representatives Mike Thanks, thank Representative McCaul: The President: Great And Michael Burgess. Thank you, Michael. Representative Burgess: The President: More than 15,000 children each year. Tragically, cancer is the by disease among American And we have some wonderful with us today, most importantly. This vital legislation for childhood cancer research, enhance the quality of life for and increase at the National Institute Very big deal. Very important to and, really, very important With us are some of the who are currently battling Olivia Egge is here Olivia, congratulations, darling. You're doing fantastically Ms. Egge: Yes, The President: And Olivia has been a of inspiration and that it's a rare bone cancer -- with your strength and thankful I'm hearing great reports. Ms. Egge: Thank you. The President: So, good. Good, honey. Jake Cunniffe Jake is a sarcoma survivor, and he has helped lead become law. Jake? Come here, Jake. Senator Capito: Look at The President: That's good. (Laughter.) Sharp-looking guy, Good job, Jake. I also want to give you a because I know how hard you work working on it As a young guy, you have you could be doing, right? Mr. Cunniffe: Yeah. The President: But you've I want to thank you. I also want to commend for her leadership of the bill to really work hard. And fellow childhood very thrilled with You feeling good? I hear you're Good, sweetheart. Thank you very much. So, Olivia, Jake, and Sadie, we're taking this action today and the hard work. And it has been, And you're really helping in America, especially We're going to be right every step of the way. All of these incredible and congress people -- people like this, right? Someday you'll be there. Maybe you'll be I don't know if you (Laughter.) -- you're better off doing But we just want to thank We want to congratulate in getting better. And you have helped So, thank you very much. Thank you all. Thanks, Jake. Thank you very much, John. Do you have anything Senator Capito: Well, of the strength of these young but their families as well. As we know, families And this is about trying but it's also about survivorship, your life and how, you can go on to have healthy And so, for me, as a and for my Cancer Crusade thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. The President: And you're doing a great You really do a Senator Capito: The President: Thank Mike? Representative Kelly: I just think there's to us than our children. And whenever one child is the same way and we want to help out. I know Mike McCaul and I very hard on cancer. I will mention that the this is our 20th anniversary, The President: Representative Kelly: against pediatric cancer. And we're seeing so It just does your heart these young Americans succeed. The President: Statistically, to see Thank you, Mike. Thank you, Shelley. Michael McCaul? Representative McCaul: This is the most cancer bill ever passed And it wouldn't have been the advocates strongly But the children are It took us three years to But, you know, they can but I bring in little Sadie into (Laughter.) -- they can't say no to her This will help -- it's access, and research. And it's going to really and the movement forward in So, thank you. The President: Thank you Dean Heller? Senator Heller: Mr. President, of childhood I'm here to thank you for your This doesn't happen And I want to thank these as they are, and getting us Thank you very much The President: Thank you. Senator Heller: You bet. The President: My friend -- Representative Burgess: The President: You've been working Representative Burgess: I think, a Congress ago, and it was clear that she was At the time, she looked a because she was in a different But as Michael said, she's And I think this builds on 21st Century Cures, and, quite last week with All of this works together, and it's for the betterment you can't ask for more than that. The President: Great job. And Right to Try is something where for years -- and nobody knows why I never could understand it. But it was a very tough and now people can stay, and we and treatments that are but they won't be approved for And now, if somebody's in and they're not to other countries to try And it's really hope. But not only is it hope; a to be helped by this. So, the Right to Try, as to get approved and passed we're very proud Secretary Azar, would you Secretary Azar: Well, to thank Olivia, their parents and the -- who lost children to this This legislation's going in our ability to do research and survive The President: Secretary Azar: So, thank The President: Thank you very much. You maybe want to say you've been so instrumental. That's right, Jake. (Laughter.) Really, would (Laughter.) Everybody (Laughter.) You would Would you like you like to Sadie Keller: I'm just And this is just such an thank you. The President: Thank Very, very nice. So nice. Olivia Egge: Yeah, just it's so amazing to be here. I woke up this morning I was coming here today. So, this is a really And I'm just so grateful The President: Great. I'm glad you're Thank you. Sophia Egge: Same I'm just grateful that to help future cancer patients The President: Well, Would anyone like to Parents and Anybody? Ms. Egge: If I may, The President: Ms. Egge: I'd I'd like to thank the that are here that I can tell you, as a the treatment for my daughter we had to go to another country The fact that there is a on cures, is absolutely not a good place if we the funds and the effort to So, I thank you. The President: Yeah, we've made in the last -- you know, we're 500 days Can you believe it? But we've done a lot of too, where we're That's where Right to Try get things that are so be approved for another So, thank you very much. Appreciate it. Anybody? Would you like Sarah Keller: I just want for passing this bill. I have seen firsthand how my own child go through this. But we've also had many, of different childhood And some are survivors And, you know, these And so we're The President: Sarah Keller: So grateful. The President: Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, I'll sign. Are you ready? Are we all ready? (Laughter.) Are we all set? This is a big deal, now. Thank you. (The bill is signed.) You ever seen (Laughter.) Okay, whose pen is this? That's for you. Thank you. The President: And Sadie Keller: Thank you. The President: Mr. Cuniffe: Thank you. The President: We've given you Here we go. Come on. Here, Mike. Representative McCaul: The President: Thank you, fellas. Okay, Dean. Senator Heller: Thank The President: Great job. Here you go, Secretary Azar: Hey, for helping us with this. She's been great. The President: Ivanka A really terrific person. She's worked very This was very important. That's for the press. (Applause.) Thank you all very much. Thank you very much. The Press: (Inaudible.) The President: North Korea very well. A lot of relationship A lot of negotiation going But it looks like it's We'll see what happens. But very important. It will be a very Thank you very much. Thank you.