(suspenseful music) (crowd applauds) - [Johnny] The US government is quietly reshaping the global economy in ways that will change (tense music) You can see this in just one sentence from Joe Biden's first (Congress applauding) - Think about it, there is simply no reason why can't be built in Pittsburgh No reason, no reason, none. - [Johnny] This seems just like a boring political statement, but I promise this statement because it marks a new a system that all of us participate in, whether we know it or not, or maybe it's a rerun that the globe turned to right - There's no reason why the world in the production of electric vehicles and batteries. I mean, there is no reason. We have the capacity. (tense music) - [Johnny] In this video, I of the endlessly complex and to show you just how deeply and how those connections All of this thanks to new realizations, new values, and above all, a new rivalry This is the world that we are moving into. It's how things will and it's important that we understand it. (suspenseful music) So let me give you an overview of what is becoming - The new tariffs from both sides went into effect earlier this morning. - [Reporter] The US - China can't put as many tariffs on us as we can put on them. - China is still the biggest (tense music) - [Biden] Folks, we right here in America. - Hey, so for a long time I've people who call my phone, even and who send me emails, even though I never gave We're all familiar with this. It's called spam, and it But then I recently learned to request that I be taken that people use to buy The problem is, even though I'm not gonna go through the process of like requesting a formal off of every one of these hundreds of data broker lists that I'm on. Incogni is the sponsor of today's video, which is why I'm talking about this. I'm very grateful to them for I signed up for Incogni, and I gave them permission to go take my name off and then they start the that your name be taken off. Some of these companies are kind of shady and they like try to push back, and Incogni takes the time to follow up and push until you are The best part is you get all on this nice dashboard that tells you what lists your I recently learned just how pervasive these data broker lists are. Like, they use it not only to like fill up your inbox with spam, but also to like track which they then can sell to which could like jack up your premiums. Luckily, Incogni has helped and my phone is now strangely quiet. My inbox is not a hornet's nest. So if you wanna try this out, there's a link in my description. It is incogni.com/johnnyharris. When you click the link, you It's like 60% off when you I do the annual plan because once you're taken off these lists, you immediately get put back on, and Incogni constantly to make sure that you So yeah, big discount. Click the link in my description, use the code, and you'll You can try it out and see if and makes you feel like you in your life. Let's dive into this story. It's a big one, it's an important one, and I'm excited to share it with you. (mysterious music) The economy that we live in, that we all take for granted, The clothes that you're or the phone that you're the materials that your the fibers in the blanket the food you eat, all of it is a product of perhaps one of the most of our species: global trade. (mysterious music) Early on, humans discovered when a group of people specialize in producing something They make more than they need, and then they take that excess and they give it to another group who also made too much of something because they specialize in a And through this exchange, both parties benefit way more It was this kind of cooperation beyond any other animal on Earth. So we just kept doing it. In fact, the history of is largely the history of people trading on an ever-growing scale. Today, this is normal. By the time the 1900s rolled around, we had a pretty connected world. There was global trade all over the place, but it was still pretty clunky. Everyone had different trade Countries were worried that their domestic producers, so and imposed big tariffs on Then, 70 years, ago came that war that almost tore this world apart. (explosions thunder) Out of the ashes of that war, the US emerged as the most It had troops and influence And with that new power, the US and its allies wrote a new playbook for the world economy. They would make it so that the US dollar was the top currency. Everything would kind of This helped stabilize the whole system. It helped it move more predictably. It helped countries send and The US also got countries together with the goal of lowering on products flowing in and And through all these efforts, all these new rules, borders opened up. Investors could put their to grow new businesses. Corporations could look to far away lands for cheaper workers to The world became one big market, and it started to benefit (bright music) So much so that even out of this global economy that that was so much more open than anything the world had ever seen. There was way too much money They said that they but they would open up a few to be open for business Millions of China's rural poor flocked to the coastal cities, these They showed up ready to A world away, over in the United States, corporations looked at in places like Detroit and Buffalo, and realized that it would for them to move all of where they could pay workers And, spoiler alert, all that opened up to the global Hundreds of millions of of poverty and thrust into this all thanks to the magic based on the rules and policies that the US had set up after World War II. It was so good for China and but for the many Americans to someone in like Shanghai, It felt like betrayal, like a recipe for poverty and ghost towns. (haunting music) This China shock was one of the economic pain that this on huge numbers of people. But to everyone else, because thanks to this system, people were suddenly seeing drop further than seemed possible. Washing machines, shoes, shirts, socks, toys, anything you can think of is now flowing from Chinese factories and available for dirt all while transforming the lives of people in places like Vietnam, who saw huge economic So by the '80s, China's and it is a gravy train. The US and UK both elect leaders who love this free-trade - More trade, not less is - The new system was boosted by all of this new technology making it easier to pass to move money, to move people, to move goods across the globe. A globe. Promise to obey. If we all believe and obey these rules, it creates the conditions that made the world into where a corporation could to make their product from whatever made the most economic sense. Soon, products as simple as a T-shirt would travel along an using material and labor from many countries all around the globe, before eventually showing up conveniently just in time at the store. Policy had created mass of people who don't who don't know each other, but are somehow all getting This mental construct of economic policy is what created globalization, the globalization we know today. And what's crazy to me is that, if you tinker with the you can reverse a lot which is exactly what's - There is simply no reason why can't be built in Pittsburgh - Okay, but let's stick We're kind of in the '90s. And I'll tell you, people in what direction this story is about to go. The Soviet Union had just fallen, free trade and global capitalism had unambiguously beat communism, and the magic of the free for pretty much everything. Free trade had just ended global conflict between these great Free trade was eradicating global poverty. Free trade was pushing And here's Bill Clinton, giddy about how good it's all going, predicting that free trade - The more China liberalizes its economy, the more fully it will liberate their initiative, their imagination, their remarkable spirit of enterprise. And when individuals have but to realize their dreams, they will demand a greater say. - Free trade would prevent by so deeply entangling countries in mutually beneficial deals that it wouldn't make sense to fight. After all, free trade had turned Europe from a continent ravaged by where everyone's holding Why wouldn't this naturally China continued to make stuff and send it to the United States. Our dependency on them and and that would surely Um, no. It's looking like that's In fact, it's kind of the opposite. - The new tariffs from both sides went into effect earlier this morning. The US has imposed 10% tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese imports. - China is our military's competitor and pacing challenge. - In a relatively sudden shift, governments around the of this globalization, this They're rejecting it. India is paying companies within their own borders, especially for important industries like pharmaceuticals and electronics. South Korea is giving to produce green energy infrastructure instead of waiting for the Japan is paying companies to and to move their supply Australia is using taxpayer money to encourage mining companies of rare-earth mineral instead of abroad. Nigeria is imposing that they want to see like rice and cement. They don't wanna be And then you've got Europe, where tons of countries are and protecting homegrown industries that have always been directed like energy, agriculture, and cars. The government getting incentivizes companies and sell these products in country as opposed to looking And of course, leading out on all of this is the OG of the modern the United States, who is from how they've been operating, all the way up until like Obama. Like, Obama spent a great deal of his time trying to increase free Then, first under Trump the US is overhauling its economic policy to turn back some of this free trade. And what's crazy is that both Republicans and Democrats seem to agree (upbeat music) We have the capacity. - Some of these policies spending bills, like the CHIPS Act, which would allocate over 50 to companies that produce microchips here in the United States, where the free market had This is also happening in other industries that the government has deemed vital, like critical minerals, But they're not just giving subsidies, like, it's not just on all these industries, Biden is imposing tariffs on imports, which protects domestic because they no longer have to compete with the global market. They're also banning American companies from selling certain products to China. They're increasing that comes in from places like China. Like, this is a big shift. And the question is, what happened? How did we get from this free-trade heyday that was supposed to usher (upbeat music) - Markets have been whipsawed all morning, and now afternoon, by this - The short answer is one word, the answer to all of this: protection. Here's my list of four protections that best explain this big (mysterious music) which we already kind with the China shock. For all the winners of the global economy, there were lots of losers, and a lot of them were communities who found themselves out of work as their jobs went to Now listen, economists argue as to how big of a problem this actually was, and you can read all but the point is that closed factories and unemployed communities have a major psychological who fear that their jobs either abroad or be taken over by AI. So the government is by pumping money into certain sectors to keep jobs in America. The next big realization It doesn't really care much about how much carbon it Our world is barreling towards and governments realize they're gonna have to force the market to get serious about things like electric and other green infrastructure. The free market is not And if it doesn't happen, we're gonna have a much (mysterious music) One of the best parts is that our products get made by materials that are being tossed around at the perfect place, to all come together to be made into a final product, all to arrive at a shelf at some store so that we can purchase it. These supply chains are insane, and they cross the entire planet. And it works great until the world shut down leaving people around the world without the products or just kinda got used to having. Again, economists argue about A lot of them are like, &quot;No, the supply chains held But regardless of what some at MIT, all of us are left in our mouth about supply The system feels too fragile. A lot of us feel too of far away global connections that could be rocked at any moment, which has led to these that these governments hope inside of their borders. Okay, finally, and perhaps in all of this, is that Bill Free trade didn't incentivize China into a democratic revolution. The world did not join together in one big free-trade market, too entangled to fight with each other. In fact, quite the opposite has happened. - Relations between the are at their most tense in years. - After joining the global economy, China got really rich really fast. They've kind of started to and now they have one of on the planet, and they use that military to assert their influence They use their newfound wealth to project influence around the world by building stuff or And they're kind of trying as the one who's calling the shots on the global economic order. I made a whole video about this that you can go watch if you want, but the big point here about the rapid rise of especially when the rise of that rival is in part fueled by American technology, specifically these little that make weapons smart, and that will be the brains A lot of Joe Biden's are actually just aimed right at China, trying to stop them to get ahead of us. Again, I made an entire You can go to that. I've kind of made a video But yeah, Joe Biden is also for these microchips out meaning out of Taiwan, bringing to places like New Albany, Ohio, nice and safe in the So you're gonna see a lot with American presidents or speaking at construction sites. - Folks, we need to make these to bring down everyday America's back, and (tense music) - This last point is kind for a lot of people, that our theory that we if we were more economically at least for now. In fact, these economic like they might turn as opposed to preventers of conflict. Like, China has a near monopoly on a lot of the rare-earth elements of very important products, And if push comes to shove, they could very realistically and cut us off in the exact same way that we cut them off microchips. I mean, this just happened. Vladimir Putin turned off the pipelines that pumped natural gas into Europe, the gas that is needed to heat the homes and run the factories, showing us that economic entanglements can actually be a weapon, and flipping this whole But yeah, Joe Biden is pouring money into bringing production home, and he has a lot of support So it's like economic nationalism. The government is getting of what the free market did in its heyday, which was to distribute where it made the most economic sense, not where it protected people. - That means we will invent it in America and make it in America, and we're gonna make sure - So that's where we're at. The world is reacting to in the global free-trade system. They're putting up barriers And no one's really sure what that means. Like, it's kind of hard and draw some parallels with the 1930s when a series of economic to put up trade barriers which then led to ever leading to unrest and in the Second World War. But don't read too far into that. I'm not trying to like where I'm like, &quot;Every hundred years, history repeats itself.&quot; That's not what I think is happening here. But there's some similarities that we should probably A suite of crises that that surge populism and and the rise of tensions (bright music) Hey, before you go, I need which is that we made of the poster that I designed last year. It's a poster called &quot;All Maps Are Wrong,&quot; and I'm very proud of it. It shows all the ways that and project it onto a 2D plane, which always comes with some distortion. Anyway, it's kind of a and if you're into that, you before they're all gone. This is probably gonna be our last batch, so get 'em while they last, and the link's in the description.