The United States is in a upgrade its People 50 years ago didn't we should have had high States long before now. Other parts of the world high speed rail at great Federal planners see an service to Texas. I would argue that the lowest hanging fruit in intercity passenger rail In 2014, a group named to bring high speed rail with bullet trains The goal was to connect 90 minutes. You cannot do that in a You cannot do that if you If you factor in going to security, getting back in other end. But after a decade of been made. The original multi-billion dollar mega money, until Amtrak the project late in 2023. Everything is set to go. This is what we call We just need to reinvest They are now in the finance. If they started construction period would But the backlash in Texas signs of fading soon. Even if there's a off the route, I will Texans. With $66 billion in passenger rail up for poised for a revival. Is Texas ready for bullet And what will a high for the millions of The race to bring high Triangle dates back to And we came so close that passed. We got the French. We competed with Ben Barnes was an early build a system in Texas TGV system. The effort ultimately Southwest Airlines, who Southwest Airlines, spent a very good job of farmers that their cows milk, and all kinds of to happen if we had these through Texas. Today, most Texans used of highway to get around. You know, our just really trying to population growth. Commuters experience of delay a year. The proposed high speed connect Houston and cities in the country. I don't think you could pairing than Dallas to that sweet spot, the for between 200 to Too short to fly, too Andy Byford joined Amtrak strategically about high States. We think there are huge certainly the market done both pre and post a compelling business convenience, that safety, able to in the future, in the afternoon, go to or maybe have dinner and that day. Texas is probably about one that would have the investment, because it easily be six hours with reduces it to a downtown about 60 minutes. Congressman Seth Moulton director at Texas Central If you don't build high and Houston, then you You're going to have to going to have to expand going to have to do both. If built, the Texas Bullet shuttle over 7 million and Dallas each year. That would take about highway routes, or 14.5% traffic, by 2035. The path for the bullet 1700 parcels of land, outskirts of Dallas. This is our family farm, It's on the southern The proposed bullet train tracks. The planners hope and wildlife to cross its Even with that may remove thousands of It is actually set to go here. Jody Berry says her family generations. In the 20 of Texans Against High collective who has This thing is going to cut like it will every other We know the stories of the up neighborhoods, going through minorities. High-speed because first of all, One high-speed rail line 10 highway lanes. So think about how much high speed rail in 2022. A Texas Supreme Court of this high speed rail eminent domain. But right after the leadership team at Texas resigned. The groups not respond to multiple comment. I think they put all those calling them on hold point where they have a communication. The decision gave the legal right to purchase route if property owners compensated. Finding out that the high potentially go through very difficult for me to The eminent domain the Supreme Court of for me, really to comment would have to go down It's certainly not want to do. I hope that all Texans of the massive would bring. I think it is easier for the lines to be more It is a harder thing to corridor to support it, impact of the particular way. The right of way isn't countryside. In Houston, path will end about six center. Going to the this current plan will ride. You know, you've got really built up, and so is one issue. But I think sure that it local transit system as important. In Dallas, the elevated to the DART light rail Central alignment ends to downtown Fort Worth 950,000 people. So we think terminating Dallas is a mistake. A coalition of planners in build their own to Dallas. We don't know the new Texas Central Partners, their vision will be. But some members of the changes that could costly environmental The National or NEPA, was created in slow down projects. The problem we encountered ironically, even though fundamentally so good for often environmental our progress. Challenges like these can send a project's costs As of February 2024, the estimated to cost over Another high-speed rail Angeles to San Francisco The project was approved 2008 after $1.3 billion Costs have skyrocketed. Completing the entire 500 between $88 billion and The federal government with the backers of Texas giving the project new The US used to be a world 1950s, the decision was interstate system. The highways that we use really took off with the progressively over time, focus for the US. So we want to change Amtrak is wholly owned by government. It delivered trips in 2023. Since Covid, we've than our pre-COVID People are flocking to But the big thing missing that would be ultimately country over the right right city pairings. Funding for Amtrak is a in Washington. The agency struggles to outside of the Northeast subsidies to stay afloat. At the same time, the interstate highway system it ever has for passenger You know, people sometimes problem providing massive Interstates. For whatever be treated differently. It's not unique to this The Texas State Department planning to spend $9 Interstate 45 within billion for widening the between Austin and San Any form of transportation got faith in the younger coming along today. And, their children that's consequences of an system. Everywhere else in the people out of planes, out speed trains because efficient. Congressman Seth Moulton for bullet trains with Rail Act of 2024. A previous version of in 2021. Still, the government is billion on upgrades for with a focus on high That includes a route Canada, to Seattle and Another route would Charlotte. These Texas Central, would Corridor Identification Those rewards are to California's $3.1 the San Francisco to Los connection. Another grant connection from Las Vegas valley. That Brightline, privately line between Las Vegas to be paralleling an subsidized by the There's a compelling meaningful, enduring going because that has a beneficial effect on the The bullet train in Texas design of Japan's The Shinkansen runs on track has very minimal higher speeds. It connects 22 major Approximately 64 billion the Shinkansen since its The United States is a high speed railway. Masaru Sano is a corporate Railways, otherwise known Mr. Yosano was also a project in Texas. His team has marketed around the world. Taiwan High Speed Railway from 2007 by using of technology, and we at technical assistance to since 2014. Separately, the Japan Bank Cooperation gave the $300 million loan in This investment aligned government's export domestic businesses to new exports to be earned The Shinkansen system, projects in the United cost overruns when it was Unlike US projects, the was built quickly, after the start of its The economic and Japan have been obvious. Trains can carry more less energy and producing when compared to If Shinkansen were to be would be expected to make in terms of the reducing energy consumption. The trip from Tokyo to and would take 7 to 8 hours by train. And there's nothing like And just from from a cost per passenger able to travel on the lower cost than you are So it's going to change the comforts and life. And I'm talking about the I'm talking about the the Amtrak says the Texas by the early 2030s if it If we don't grasp the almost saying we're never opportunity, and that omission for the US.