&gt;&gt; ANNOUNCER: Please Security, Vasu Jakkal. &gt;&gt; VASU JAKKAL: Well hello, Good afternoon. It is great to be Another RSA Conference. This holds a special place does yours as well. We get to be here to form learn something new and friends and form anew. And I certainly hope you have What an exciting Today we have one of the most that are going to shape artificial intelligence. I love the theme of this The Art of Possible. As I was listening to Doris, it of our own perception. And as we embrace this art of what are the limits that Limitless possibilities. Two years back when I was here security and at that time This was the slide we showed and going to take shape, leveraging Last year, we came back and What I thought was going to take And that base of innovation Not surprisingly, when ChatGPT months or two months about, using that technology. Me included. And if you look at the curve of other technologies which have our lives, mobile phones, see the numbers here. It took us sixteen years have 100 million users. Just gives you an idea of the pace and rate of And today, fast forward just a billion people around the models in some way. That is incredible. Absolutely incredible. So, what does that mean for us? These are great numbers. What is the promise of AI? AI is going to have a dimensions of our life. In healthcare. When someone is diagnosed life in a split second. But what if we could - imagine faster and with accuracy Imagine if we could use AI to and billions of people around In education, imagine if you had teach your kids, patiently - I real feat to accomplish - helping them understand Imagine a more equitable future thousands of students who do Autonomous transportation. Yes, we have work to do on where transportation is is safe, and it's sustainable. Imagine. Climate, one challenges of our time. Imagine if we can use AI for our endangered species and help If we can even detect natural maybe prevent the impact, what And bringing it right home, it's hard, isn't it? Many days it feels like we and four steps backward. It's been hard. Imagine if we could put the the hands of every defender and be a defender so that we speed and scale. Even in its relative infancy, able to do incredible sophisticated challenges, malware in seconds. It is able to tilt the balance Natural language is the most in multiple languages bring diverse perspectives form an international Imagine that. So, clearly, it is evident that an impact on everything. Here is some data from the They're getting faster. They're getting more productive. They're getting more accurate. We're better protected. It's pretty cool. And it's for all. We're big believers at No matter who you are, no matter you are on the journey or are, AI can help you. So, no wonder when I meet first question we get is, I'm a small and medium business. How can it help me? I'm a large enterprise. How can it help me? What is that? What are the outcomes And right at its heels is the which as defenders and know you get a lot. Well, is it safe? Are these models safe? Should I use them? How do I know that generative AI is supposed to be used? How do I know that? And how can I protect so rapidly, so fast? How can I keep pace These are all great questions It is crucial we ask them. It is crucial. Because today, we live in threat landscapes ever. Every time I come to RSA, I use waiting to not use that. But it is unprecedented. Identity continues to be the Identity related attacks just year over year. Cybercrime is both Cybercrime is a gig economy. And if we measured that in terms an economy, a country, it would world, and it's growing at 15%. Imagine. Imagine what we could do Not to mention the talent of you is facing right now. And a complex Microsoft is tracking 250, updates every day. That's a lot. And what happens with AI? Because generative AI is will use creatively. They can use gen AI to quickly and create new variants. Do password cracking more They can use it to prey on curiosity, using phishing And I'm sure each of you has video that you've seen. Super concerning. Did you know that just a train a gen AI model Something as innocuous as your Combine that with the phishing that can be done. And just like attackers can use all those things I talked about, they can go and harm. Along with our traditional identities and data and cloud the new gen AI attack surfaces AI data and orchestration. So, we have to think about that. Okay, so, what do we have to do? Because clearly, AI has so We as defenders have the and we need to protect it at the center but also thinking fairness, thinking of quality, reliability, That is what is needed. I absolutely believe AI will I'm seeing it every single day. It reminds me of the beautiful What is beyond our perception? It's going to help Gosh, beautiful. But it has to start It has to. You defenders are the heart organization's trust in AI. It is a really important You're the ones who space for exploration. You're the ones who make it themselves in inspiration. You are the foundation. And I love this. You are the yes. So, I hope you know that because of things and we are immersed in good to take a moment and pause and how important you You are the yes for AI. So, as we embark on this magical transformation without So, how do we do that? There is clearly a lot research out there. Based on our learnings at with a simple framework. There are three pillars. Discover, protect, and govern. Discover. What we don't know creates fear. Fear creates anxiety. I have seen organizations who just not using AI anymore how to manage the risk. Now, as I say this, 93% of usage, are using AI, and only to deal with that risk. So we have to start with We have to understand what used in a company? How are they being used? How much are they being used? Who is using them? What is the data Create that blueprint. Next, map that And we have three ways First one is application Think about just models, large poisoning or prompt think about jailbreak. Those are the things. Supply chain vulnerabilities. That's your application The second one is data risk. Data loss, insider risk, That's data risk. And then the third one is a lot of regulations coming up. This is related to regulatory conduct and policies The second pillar after Mitigate all the risks you can. Prevent them from happening. And for the things you cannot guardrails and controls. If you look at application and continues to be zero Verify explicitly, use and assume breach. Three everlasting tenets. Use zero trust architecture. Start with identity And what I mean by Like, what are we observing indicators of compromise? Do threat modelling using protection because your not going to work here. So, expand your threat technologies to really be Posture, one of my absolutely because it starts Make sure you understand managing this posture. There are so many great tools. There is cloud security posture, Integrate your AI Be expansive. And the lastly, have What is your LLM processing? And what are the outputs? Have the right filters so content is not served up. Data risk. Really, really concerning. What is the data Where is this data? How do I understand that? Data is the fuel of AI. That is what it uses. So, you have to make sure that know where the data is, and I cannot stress this enough. Labeling and classification Sensitive data needs And this data is being generated takeaways from our own learnings Use auto classification. You want this at the speed being created and used. Risk-based access controls. Both user risk as well as data who should have access, how integrate that into your zero trust architecture. And then lastly, make sure data loss prevention These are some of the things And then the third Now, I know governance can think governance is so we're doing right now. We have so many learnings revolution of the last the Industrial Revolution. And governance is about It's making sure that we put front and at the heart of should we build this safely, use this safely. We need to be really I shared with you earlier that regulatory updates every day. We're seeing new The EU AI Act - these are just Artificial Intelligence and Data like across the world. And we need to make sure So, from a governance love about the EU AI approach to governance. I love it. Because then it helps you going to prevent access I know how to evaluate And for the low risk apps, I'm right controls in place. Maybe it's for some users. Maybe it's about some those controls in place. We need to think about policy regulatory violation. Both in terms of are we sure that your tools integrate way, because otherwise And if someone is trying to just you detect that and how can you your code of conduct policies? Content safety filters, we It matters deeply here. And then the last one which is It is not just for governance, vectors as well. It starts with user education. It starts with us. Just understanding it. How do these models work? What are they using? How do I need to evolve How do I need to educate How content needs to be created? Because you have so How content needs to be What tools do they need use? All these are really, education is critical. I shared this earlier. While security is at the heart is so much more that Our roles as Your impact is growing. When we think about AI and when to make sure it is for We need to make sure that in building this. Diversity matters. Cognitive diversity and better security. Fairness matters. Equity matters. Inclusion matters. Transparency matters. Accountability matters. We've got to think Clearly, if you can't I think the age of AI is going I believe it will help us It will help us dream a little bigger, help us make each Build a better world, a a more equal world. Wouldn't that be wonderful? I truly believe it is have a huge responsibility. As Uncle Ben in Spider-Man - &quot;With great power comes That is the responsibility I love science fiction. I grew up with Star Trek Live long and prosper. And I thought I would end with The limits of the possible can them into the impossible. So, as I come full center with art of the possible, I invite to join me fearlessly, bravely, And with care, together, I to make our world safer, and I think it's going to Thank you so much