We are expected to arrive at the combat zone in five minutes. We must save me. Hurry up and start. Soldiers, rush, move, be careful. You can also run, move, and fire. Set up a line of defense, hold on, hold on, hold steady, stay in formation. Guys, open fire, open fire, open fire, take cover, and get out of the way of the earth. Iron Guard, establish a line of defense. I am sorry to tell you that currently human weapons cannot severely damage Cerberus. The electromagnetic barrier that attacks the face can only slow down its movement. You may ask what is the point of futile resistance? I cannot agree, but I know that humans will always be the masters of the earth. This is our belief, and it is also our hope. We have decided to implement the Spartan Plan and gather forces to launch a counterattack. Are you crazy ? It's been a long time since I've seen you. What will you do if you provoke those bastards? Get out of this world. It's over. Even if they survive, they've all fallen. Among the bandits who robbed our goods last time were members of the National Defense Forces. How did you know about their dog tags? Those you thought were just to scare people are the scum of the Defense Forces. The real Defense Forces. He will not give up resistance. Even the toughest Chinese defense forces died on the day of the fall. Stop talking nonsense and hurry up and get to work. Three kilograms of components will be delivered tonight. One or two less components. I will cut off one of your fingers. Has he always been so naive? Idiots in this world are also part of the labor force. Do n't just think about carrying guns . Wake up. Idiots, where else can the defense army agree? If I find it, I will get an additional 30-70 cents in profit. And the ruins are not limited to this one. Or you can just take a bite of these ruins. Let me pack the price so you can go south early. Instead of packing, why do n't you say group buying? You can get more discounts. Go south. This guy wants to go south to find his family and dream about it. Accept your fate. After the fall, everyone on the coast will be dead already today. The harvest is too big. I can't give it to him three times. Do you understand? It seems like this thing can still be used. I think, run quickly. Keep running here and there. Don't look back. Are you sure this is the person we need? We need a guide now. Is everything okay at last? I also want to go home and squat down. We will let you get out alive. If it weren't for you, I would have gotten rid of the monster. Now it's okay. You pissed it off with these few shots. Let's finish playing. Let's go to the west exit. Is there cover at the west exit? Even if you can outrun the monster, can you outrun the beam? If I tell you to live, you can live. Don't say anything. You want to live? Listen to me. It's coming. Follow me. What's the new plan? Knight, let's go. Dad, how about one minute? Hurry up, Knight, cover me and retreat. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go. Dad, don't they even know you are a deserter? No one here cares about the past. We just want to live. If Without fighting, no one can survive. I just want to support my wife and children and live an ordinary life. You risk your life every day to pick up rubbish in the ruins. This is what you said. To live an ordinary life is not like yesterday. So unlucky, and even if I encounter dogs, I can still deal with them. As a soldier, he not only has to protect his family, but also has the responsibility to protect the world. Why can't you understand that we are no longer the masters of the earth? For those aliens As far as humans are concerned, we are just a group of lower animals. Do you think there is any point in being a responsible cow? Human beings will always be the masters of the earth. This is our belief and our hope. The slogan is so good. God, there is no humanity. Help, help, help, help, you bastard, apocalyptic scum, help me, help me, don't move, put down the knife, you'd better be careful about your friends' lives, but in our hands, this is your territory, I have to kill those people first. Trash, what do you want? Leave everything on you, including her, and you can go away. You brought us here on purpose. I don't know them. We'll settle this debt later, Dad. I'm not your enemy, Dad. , go daddy, rush, rush, receive, you won't come, really, you can try. You need me, but I don't need you. This is my usual settlement. I came here to get rid of you, and I don't either. When I thought about meeting those bandits, I really don't know them. Either you are going to die or be a hero. I won't stop you, but we are really not going along the way. I'm going south to complete the mission. Where do you want to go? Who will complete the mission with you? I said I won't go with you. I want to go home. We all want to go home, but you can't leave today. Sorry, ca n't you go? I have the final say. I want to turn off the locator. I just wanted to tell you that it is not the locator Earth United. We have been fighting guerrillas with these dogs there since the fall of Major Dorje Pam of the Western Resistance Army of the Defense Forces. Not long ago, we intercepted General McKay's signal. The commander decided to send us as an advance team to investigate the coordinates, that is, those who died. Those who fell are all your comrades. When we first came here to look for supplies, the settlement was being attacked by bandits. We tried to help these refugees resist, but unfortunately we only lasted three days and failed to defend. It was only me and some refugees who escaped. Survived. At this time, humans have lost their originally self-righteous status. They are both tall and cowardly, humble and noble. Why does he wear electronic shackles? Our guide is a deserter from the Defense Force. Do you believe him? Do you know how hunters in the past looked for hounds? Those who are obedient often cannot bring back prey because they are only good at obedience and not thinking, but the smart hounds are different. Wake up, you did not lie, so I will give you a chance to redeem yourself and make meritorious service. It reminds me of the days when I was so prosperous. Return to manual operation, it must not get jammed. I will equip you with something that is absolutely powerful. The alloy bullets can easily penetrate concrete. Thank you, boss. What are your plans next? When I woke up, there was another woman. I heard them say that you were captured again. It seems. Your level as a deserter is not very good. Are you an idiot? Or are you really brainwashed? You still believe in the so- called beliefs of the National Defense Force. Yesterday, I should have aimed at your head. My savior, I gave you this head, and you took it for granted. A deserter, so I have never escaped from the battlefield in my life. It's sad. We are in trouble. This bastard is waiting for prey. There is something abnormal. The dog must have had a premonition. Maybe they intercepted the assembly order. No, they can't crack our military code. Can we get around it? It's easy. Here are the coordinates where we go. We can take the mountain road to avoid them. It's okay. If you want to abandon the car now, I have no problem. But if there are no vehicles in the uninhabited land and desert, we will definitely not be able to cross it. You have also seen that this is too dangerous. I am a Guide, I'm not cannon fodder. Remember, we won't let you die. Repeat the mission. Run from here to the car there, honk the horn, and lead those monsters there. No problem. Chief, then you can give me some equipment. Why do you trust that deserter? I believe every deserter will seek self-salvation. Honk the horn. Honk the horn. Honk the horn. Execute my order. I said honk the horn. He wants to escape. Wait, fire. Laijia, withdraw. You hurry up. Not fighting side by side with you is a mistake. Come on, come on, come on, damn it, Cheng Ling, take it, take it, cover it, Pam Pam, thank you. Actually, my true identity is Earth. Researcher at the Joint Defense Forces Research Department. This thing is called a large-scale electromagnetic pulse. Why didn't you take out the huge electromagnetic pulse from the beginning? This is the only prototype I have. We haven't had it on a dog since the beginning of the war. Why is this huge electromagnetic pulse paralyzing Gouzi instantly? The Chinese troops in the second eastern part of the country that fell have paid an extremely heavy price. Only then did our research institute be able to study Gouzi's technology. We found a kind of technology in Gouzi's body. The special blue crystal has a structure of an element that is not known to us. This blue crystal can amplify the energy geometrically. How is this possible? I don't understand the principle of electromagnetic pulse very well, but your electrons The shackles are connected to blue crystals and the energy released is enough to burn you to ashes. Compared to the dogs, our technology is like living in the Middle Ages, but the dogs still rely on self-defense mechas powered by electronic devices, so we can Use blue crystals to amplify electromagnetic pulses and destroy Gouzi's electrical system, causing him to become paralyzed. Without the protection of the mecha, Gouzi will soon be finished. Theoretically, the institute requested the Western Resistance Army to escort five people, including me, with the prototype. and design information to go to five human bases where there may be resistance forces for mass production. My goal is the coordinates of General McKay. So once mass production is completed, humans will have hope to change the situation of the war. But this journey is more difficult than we imagined, and it is the only one. One prototype has been used. If we encounter the dog again, there is a good chance that we will do whatever it takes to get you safely to General McKay. Yes, it is a well-deserved death. It sounds worthy of a celebration. I was lying alone that summer. By the school swimming pool, I looked up at the sky in a daze. My mind was filled with thoughts of my life after graduation and work. I could see the end of my life at a glance. I thought life was too boring, so I made a wish. I said, let's change our lives. But the whole world changed for the first time. The wish was successful. This is the last message I received. When I wanted to reply to them, the global communication system was cut off. My family is the reason why we live. It is the belief of all Chinese people. Sometimes I feel that you are talking about our disaster. Could this war be just a dream? A very real and long-lasting dream. It is also a nightmare for me. On the day when the dogs started the war, I was outside the delivery room when the nurse held my daughter in my hands. They were like this. The dog happened to crash into the hospital. I tried my best and couldn't save them. That was the first and last time I saw my daughter. I 'm sorry. I don't know your story either. You saved everyone and we owe you one. You don't have to put a high hat on me. What kind of person am I? I know that the deserter was dead on March 22, the first year of the fall. When a soldier loses his dignity and everything, he is already dead. But today you are a Soldier, the last photovoltaic power plant in the west eight years ago. I was in charge of commanding the ground reinforcements. The one who drove away and escaped. I had already guessed that it was you who could overcome all hardships and difficulties and reach the goal. It is our Chinese soldiers. The Lord of all things, give me the strength to go all the way, Dad. Check the coordinates again. Let me check the coordinates. No response. I'm weird. Who would I rather deal with than getting lost in no man's land? Who would I rather deal with than a Cerberus? Don't move. Who are you? I am a miner nearby. I am a miner nearby. Who are you? I am the Earth. I am the commander of the Joint Defense Forces China Zhurong Tactical Team . Gao Ren did not expect that the Defense Forces are still fighting. I thought you were all disbanded. We will fight forever. Our car is out of gas, so we can only walk. Can you help us get out of here? I want to make a simple deal with you. Look, look, look. Look, look. It's unbelievable. It's so cool. Come on, how long have you been here? We've been digging holes here before they invaded. Although life in the mines is not easy, compared to It's relatively safe out there. Doctors. I've found someone who can help you. Do you have antibiotics? It's very likely that the mother won't survive the next day. You see, it's too difficult to raise a baby in the conditions of our camp. We need antibiotics in exchange. I can. I'll help you upgrade your positioning system and some ammunition and weapons. You can also take them all. Children can't live without mom and dad. How many antibiotics do we have? Only one box per box. Dad, it's important to save people. Hurry, you need this and these oils more than we do. I hope I can take you to your destination. If anything changes, you are welcome to come back at any time. If nothing unexpected happens, I will come back to replenish the supplies. He is going to the south to go home. Tango, Quebec, Grande, Fox, Juliet Oscar Alfa Lima Golf Tango, Quebec Foxes , Juliet Oscar, Alpha, Lima, Golf We seem to have arrived at Security Security Walk around It's too quiet on Alert Security Security I have a big discovery Lambda Greek letters Spartan shield symbol The independent control system of this door is After cutting off, we had to find the main control room and turn on the power. Laijia, Andre and I went to find the power and others investigated the reason. On June 3, we finally met the Resistance Army at the abandoned central station. Not only did I see a large number of Spartans The soldiers even met the legendary General McKay. It seemed that the rebels had indeed been here. On August 11th, after a month-long journey, we finally arrived at this secret base that was easy to defend and difficult to attack. Despite this, we paid an extremely heavy price. At the cost, less than fifty of the more than a thousand brothers made it to the end, not knowing what the future would bring. On August 28, the debate about establishing a new resistance base had lasted for more than two weeks. Finally, under General McKay's decision, everyone How could General McKay give up military resistance? Everyone gathered in the hall and listened. Go to hell with Tango Que, Quebec, Grande, Fox, Juliette, Oscar, Alpha, Lima, and Golf. How could these bastards torture General McKay so much? General Kai's brain has been completely controlled. They obtained the memory of the newly established resistance base, synthesized the voice, and made a non-existent rally broadcast: Tango, Quebec, Grande, Fox Juliet, Oscar, Alpha, Lima, Golf. The signal is a trap. Dogs, open fire. Be careful and take cover. I'll get rid of Dad, get him out of the way. Come on, go on, go on, go to the west. There 's a breeding room. We'll meet there. How do you know that I'm a guide? I've never done anything valuable like this. I'll miss the structural diagram I just found in the lounge. I 'm stuck. Please help me find something to block the door. Cheng Ling, you're injured. Thank you. This door is full of dogs. We have to find another exit to escape. We can make one ourselves. The wall at the exit is the weakest part of the entire building. This is a military base embedded in the mountain. Even the weakest part is stronger than ordinary buildings. And we are all inside. Do we want to blow it up? I need accurate calculations. The amount of bombs will take time. Anyway, I'll do my best. Prepare to fight and retreat. Everyone is responsible for the rise and fall of the earth. Dad, how long do you have? Give me five minutes. What do you want to do? I see you are crazy at the evacuation point. Look at me, come on. Come on, one minute. Get ready, be careful. Daddy, give me a bomb. Go, go, go. He's still alive. Boss, come on, come on. Daddy, you're injured. Come quickly. Is there a doctor? Doctor, hurry up. Is there anyone? Daddy, hold on. Dad, please slow down. I'll go find a doctor. Doctor, daddy. Wake up and don't fall asleep. Dad, daddy can't sleep. You can't fall asleep. Dad, please remember not to talk. Save your energy. Dad, save your energy. Strength, my Sofia. You wore a yellow dress that night to the dance. In that moment, I was completely smitten with you. Thank you for your company. You are a great wife. My Sofia, I'm here, daddy. I know we can go home. We will definitely see our family. Big Daddy's death is not about never forgetting. This is the blue crystal you said can turn the tide of the war. Through this blue crystal, our engineers transformed the electromagnetic pulse generator. I think I can make it. Although a rough version of electromagnetic pulse is not as stable as the prototype, this instability is exactly what we can use. You can think of it as winning the lottery. You can think of it as winning the lottery. Either you don't win, the dog cannot be paralyzed after detonation, or you win. The jackpot created an electromagnetic pulse explosion with a huge range. When I arrived at the settlement with the escort of the National Defense Force, we were attacked by bandits. We could have left, but in the end we decided to help the local residents to resist the increase in the number of bandits. The captain asked me to take the EMP women and children and escape from the settlement. When we escaped, we heard the screams of the escort. In fact, I am a deserter like you, right? It's no longer important. What's important is that we all have a chance to redeem ourselves now. That's it. As long as we're still fighting, no one is a deserter. Waiting for the order. It's time to wake up the dogs. Let's shoot. Let's lure it away. You can cut it off. Power, move, flash, reload, reload, withdraw, flash. Cheng Ling, bring me the oxygen bottle. It's over. Give me the explosives. You go first. Make sure Pam passes the message. I'll hold them back. Then you go. I'm here to hold it back. If this continues, both of us will die. Then let me die. I'm not afraid of death. You're not afraid of death. But this is my order. Don't give me any more orders. I 'm a deserter. So if you stay, we will both defend ourselves to the death. If the army doesn't get the information, the whole army will be destroyed. By then, no one will be able to save the earth. You and your family can finally be reunited. Have you thought about it? I'll open the door. The genetic screening done by the army back then didn't find anything different from ordinary people. The human elite, the real super human, requires several generations of genetic modification of humans. We don't have that time. In order to boost the morale of the people on earth, the military can only say this: You are not a super human. Do you still remember the recruitment slogan of our Chinese National Guard? The earth rises and falls. The responsible men are you and I, we are ordinary people. Heroes are never the chosen ones, but those men who are fearless in life and death and have firm beliefs. Don't let everyone's sacrifice be meaningless. Go quickly. I am waiting for you outside, my child, mine. Love, I will always be with you. I am a lieutenant with high toughness. The 3510th unit of the 31st Division of the United Earth Defense Forces. Commander of the Zhurong Tactical Team. No. UECN 10685031. I will destroy you on behalf of humanity. Fire. Damn it. The ammunition has been shot. What ammunition has been shot? Lai Jia. I'm sorry. I can only be your brother in this life. I can be your man in the next life. That's all. Warning: This coordinate point is a trap. Don't come here. Got it? Don't come here. Laika Andre, go and lure the dog away from me. Get that thing and come back alive, you shady things, get out of the earth, you bastards, Grandpa is here, the rise and fall of the earth is everyone's responsibility, it feels so good to be alive, we won, we defeated the bastards, what are your plans next? Do you still want to go to the south? I have to go back home for sure, but I want to take the resistance back with me. Are you saying yes? I want to use this place as a new stronghold to regroup the resistance.