Flags have been around for centuries to symbolize all sorts of ideas, beliefs While which team you're on most of these designs Like you're seriously telling me and culture are being represented Oh, these ones are three colors? That's so much better. Most of the time, these colors represent But come on, we have all this space So welcome back to Fix the World, We're going to redesign all these flags whatever that means. But you know what else is interesting? Family history, which you can conveniently learn all about MyHeritage is the number one million users to show you your family tree After you sign up, you get access and it makes it super easy for you to build up your family tree Mine has filled out so much automatically discoveries, and it's grown And these aren't just names You get all kinds of details you understand what each of your ancestors Here's my Great Great Great Grandpa, I can see right where he was living But my favorite part was looking back to Kaspar, my great great grandpa, When I was a little kid. I knew him - as much as a three year old can - and his family have helped me MyHeritage has these photo colorize that were honestly kind of nuts. The way it changed the first picture Like look at that. Seeing all these people like this They also do DNA tests to see what This is just the ideal place to find out So start building your family tree today, trial of MyHeritage at the link in the description, It's really interesting stuff, Anyway, Now if you're anything like me, meaning not from the UK, you probably have no idea I knew that there was a difference but I didn't totally know what it was So to start, we got the islands called And these two are split into Great But within the two islands Each of the five has its own flag, The United Kingdom is the combination of all of these Shout out to the United Kingdom But anyway, just to spice things up a little, I'm That being - a tier list! So real quick, let's just drop Now, if you look closely, you can actually It's a combination of the English flag, Patrick's Cross, which And honestly, I think that does make We'll go A tier, but We'll just go with a solid C tier. Other than the flag for Wales, which is Like look at that dragon dude, Easy S Tier. Now with this you might be wondering all these other countries Debatably the coolest looking one. This has been a serious topic There's even been a few proposed flags but I guess the UK is a little too But of course, today I make the rules. So we're adding a dragon. So let's start by Take out the background. Now this design with the dragon but I don't love how small it is compared to the Wales flag I mean, I guess this literally is So we'll keep this guy big. But before we do that, Some of you guys pointed out is the unicorn. Like what? This is the perfect opportunity ever by including a dragon Now, originally my plan was to design to the original dragon, but you might have noticed something I broke my arm man, it's so sad. I wasn't even doing anything cool. I was just longboarding at a really low And there was a stick in the past So because of that, you guys get to see a I need a unicorn I want it to be more on all fours We want it to look as similar as possible. And we're going to make the background We'll get these guys on to there. Then there's actually a third symbol I was kind of saying that there wasn't but that's not entirely true, at least according to what I've seen, especially in sports and such, and Which of course would fit Apparently the lore behind I found a few conflicting stories the most famous story There's this legend that the first man on the Province of Ulster So obviously all these people But one warrior decided to outsmart and throwing it onto the land Kind of crazy. Therefore giving us the floating hand He just like me for real. So I think we should try to line up so, and we'll get our own white cross And by not leaving too much white space, it almost looks like we recreated This already does represent all four whatever, with I guess an optional added And yeah, there you go. I know that's not a super way more complicated, but if you ask me, Where else would it go But S Tier. Awesome, moving on to the new world, This is a great example of a flag but the design is so small that it kind of And you can't just get rid of it But if you zoom in this design is actually so sick, So I'm going to bump it down to A, Let's put that to B. Shout out Now this picture is depicting which was the capital of the Aztec The story goes that the early Mexica to build a city. Once they could find a spot devouring a snake on an island The imagery of that is kind of sick, and I understand completely why So you can guess But essentially, I just want this picture Now I'm actually going to take out leaves. I was thinking about putting this guy and then having those leaves but I think we just keep things Let's get a circle around And to each side, Now, while I do like this design a bit, super flag So I'm thinking we actually trace over each one of these main shapes Again, my original idea was to be a bit this whole thing, but due to circumstances, Now this whole idea of fixing flags This is most but unlike his video, all of these are going to be completely I actually oh no, there's such an easier Big rough outline like so, except for where it intercepts like right here. Then we can zoom back out. Keep going with the rough outline We right click Make Selection. Then we can erase Actually we want to get that island, And we can brush away the rest. Now we can add a color overlay. We'll make it the same red. Then on a layer below it and make that one green. The details on the snake I'm going to get rid of those. I'm recording sitting down today, Let me know if you... have an opinion on that, I guess? Then yeah, whatever We'll just make the cactus I think that is a little more clean. It's just kind of goofy The third option, which would be even more controversial, You know, I have a compromise. Let's just get a smaller Just a little thing for him to grab on to. Let's make sure it fits within the circle. Yeah. Okay. I think that looks pretty solid. In a way, it's more and less There you go. New Mexico flag, or not New Mexico. Updated Mexico flag. Obviously S Tier. I have a feeling there's going to be a few more S Tiers I think I might like it better than this Let's put it there. looks different enough from our next flag This is just another one of the tricolor We'll get into that a little more later. This red looks a little nicer than the orange, but we got to keep it in C Tier, it's Shout out to my Italian subscribers. Anyway, you guys were telling me to just We can't just be stereotyping Come on. So I'm thinking we just get a collection of all the types of pasta from Italy Holy cow. You know, I'm just going to simplify it First, a straight line or any of these ones Even penne that's a loop, And we'll do a bumpy rectangle to represent fusilli or whatever And we'll do a final line Oh man, this is so dumb. How about this? We get rid of the middle one Oh, it's just so bad. Oh, no. Okay, I got to move on. Italy. I'm sorry I ruined your flag. It wasn't on purpose. Okay. Moving down south a little, we got Chile. Shout out to my Chilean subscribers. I like the effort of having a little We'll put it in. But here I think I like the Scotland flag That can go in B as well. Now, especially among fellow Americans, mixed up with the Texan flag. Very, very similar. And honestly, I kind of like the Texas But the Chile flag was made earlier, I'm not going to switch the Texas flag because we're focused on countries But as I was thinking of what the only thing that came to mind It looks like you could just grab Chile Anyway, with such a thin country, Not horizontally, vertically. So let's just shrink down our star section like so, and we'll just get the two Like imagine that being on a flag post but it's like taking up Like there's because it's already That right there is an easy S Tier. There you go, then let's move This one's okay. It's But I don't know. It's And it's mainly just red. We'll go like high C tier. And to balance it out It's honestly pretty bad. I don't think YouTube's allowed in China, So big Way to go through the extra effort. Anyway, we got the flag of the Qing dynasty. Look at how sick this is. Again, Dragons on flags are just OP. Specifically, Literally every single country flag Shout out to my Nepali viewers. And honestly, I think we should get more Now Dragons have been part of China's for like thousands of years, but we want to represent something that's completely unique to China That was built relatively recently, right? Then, I'm actually going to take the dragon because it's And let's take the dragon's Then to fit this curve of the dragon better, I'm but we don't want to cut this tower off, Then let's bring back our yellow triangle And to replace that circle, And just to prove a point, Nepal has been officially out shaped. There you go, new Chinese flag, S Tier. Easy. Next up This of course, is the most iconic But it wasn't the first. Apparently, when the revolutionaries they looked at the flag and they were like, oh, that's cool. So they took it, rotated it, and that's it. They're little copycats, like Texas. But I can't lie, Shout out to my French subscribers, And even though France copied I think they pulled it off better. I honestly like the vertical lines and because of the idea of revolution this flag ended up influencing that I think it's got the right to stay So instead we're going to change Shout out to my Dutch subscribers I'm going to do something so unforgivable. You know exactly where this is going. We're just dropping in the nether portal It's vertical, There you go. I don't know if I can let myself We'll go to A. Anyway next up, let's move on to Iceland. Now, we're aware of the tri color but Iceland is guilty of two different trends, those being red, white and blue, There are only two countries in their flags, those being Jamaica and- And the Nordic cross and it's present Anyway, despite all that, I actually do Something about the exact tones of the red Maybe controversial, But of course we're here to change things I've never been, but Iceland is known to be one of the most with a crazy mix of the hots So let's try to represent that To start, I'm going to do some kind of waviness on the top Which just seems so sick, man. Like I got to see those someday. We'll make that a nice greenish blue. Then we're going to represent the hot and glaciers One will be this red, Okay, so imagine this is still a glacier. It's just going up And same with our volcano. And this white part in the middle is like a waterfall, And I think that's pretty good. But I don't know if that wavy stuff Maybe we just get rid of that and it kind of bothers me Yeah, something like that. A nice clean three color design. I don't think that's been used before... S Tier. Then while we're at it, let's do Iceland's This one's pretty clean, I like it. Maybe like a decent B tier. Now, clearly the option should be being Greenland, We're not doing that. And I'm not just going to replace the red You might have heard the story that when the Vikings discovered they decided to swap the names With Iceland again being super beautiful being basically just made out of ice, Iceland was already just called that anyway, Erik the Red named it that so that people would come over I'm a fan of the trickery. Let's just start with a super Then I think it would be funny Like, let's just get some text up here Number one Greenland. You know where this is going - Shout out to my Icelandic Now let's go on Down Under to New Zealand. I'm not going to lie, Probably the worst trend in flags over everything and kept putting the Union Shout out to my New Zealander subscribers, Still looks better than Italy though. Now apparently there was a vote as late as 2015 This one obviously won, but I'm liking all these leaf designs, Anyway, all of these are okay, One that was by far the most unique Of course, This was an actual design submitted by a former political party Had this one, country flag, Whatever. Anyway, obviously in this modern era, So we'll start with this Let's see what happens. The easiest edition is probably I'm thinking the kiwi This flag was designed to represent which there definitely are a few of. Lucy Gray decided to design this when she saw They were uninspiring. Unlike her design she came to make with a I mean, to take inspiration I think we just need some sweet I might go with papyrus. Not going to lie, that would just be so crazy as a real flag Yeah. You know, There you go. And let's move Of course This flag has gone through a ridiculous all because of their philosophy of how being the 13 original colonies And they obviously started with 13, and redesigning the flag every single time Where we're at today, that's But honestly, It's obviously super iconic, I'm straight up Shout out to my American viewers. Now if you guys have been following I actually already Of course, in the United States 2 Video. And not going to lie, It's kind of sick. Um. I don't know I'm still putting it above Anyway, it's been like two years since I fixed the U.S So to help them out, I'll add Then surely the next president Whoever that's going to be. Now obviously a lot of things describe That being American football probably But as that thought kept going, I realized that Americans And taking a look at all They all kind of So you might know where Let's get our red rectangle And we can't just have any old guy in the middle the bald eagle. Oh, this is so silly. I'm going to get rid of that whole banner You might notice there's a little middle You don't want to show that split Hey, it's about time What do you get There you go. American Flag, I'm still not putting that in S tier. We'll- we'll do this. Anyway, There we go. We did a solid amount of flags that I had planned. But at least for this episode, has got to be my favorite, Here's me putting that on the globe. I mainly put the past ones on the oceans Let me know if you guys want to see But anyway, for next episode, Like country flags, Let me know how I see those comments easier Thank you guys for the support for sponsoring this video. It's seriously, Go check it out. And we're trying