Hello! My name is Min Jung Kim, and I'm Museum of American Art, one of, if not exclusively to American art. The honored to collaborate with the Josef current exhibition, &quot;In Thread and On Featuring an extensive body of textiles, and works on paper, this landmark exhibition devoted to Anni Albers's diverse Connecticut, as well as the artist's first over 20 years. In addition to numerous on our website, I'm pleased to introduce &quot;Experiments.&quot; Presented by Fritz Horstman, Director at the Josef and Anni Albers Curator at the Josef and Anni Albers collaborative discussion that explores Albers, one of the most important textile an influential designer, printmaker, and Museum of American Art, I extend my Karis Medina, and the Josef and Anni collaboration. &quot;In Thread and On Paper: Museum's &quot;2020/20+ Women @ NBMAA&quot; initiative sponsored by Stanley Black &amp; Decker with additional support and On Paper&quot; is made possible by the Exhibitions at the New Britain Special Exhibition Fund Donors including Sylvia Bonney, Anita Arcuni Ferrante Burke, and The Aeroflex Foundation. We of Brendan and Carol Conry, Irene and Joseph. And now I welcome you to enjoy The textile artist, Jack Lenor Larsen, when he presented her with the American responded in a letter to Larsen, &quot;As to instead of visionary, I suggest colleague at the Albers Foundation, give a lecture at the New Britain Museum exhibition &quot;In Thread and On Paper: the COVID-19 public health have adapted the material of our lecture &quot;Anni Albers: Experiments.&quot; Following built out of parts, we will interweave of the authors whom she referenced most a few contemporary artists for whom themselves are experimenters in the Anni Albers moved to Connecticut in 44 years. change of her life. Fleischmann moved to Weimar, Germany in perpetually underfunded avant-garde hundred kilometers south of Berlin, but privileged life she had known as a At the Bauhaus, she met her future Anni distinguished herself in the weaving teaching role. Under pressure from the prompting the second and most dramatic the opportunity to come to the United November 1933 to teach at Black Mountain liberal arts college situated just Anni taught weaving there for 16 years, color, and design. In 1949, the Alberses year, artist to have a solo exhibition at the old and just hitting her stride. In 1950, known as the Design Department at Yale to Connecticut, where they first lived in nearby town of Orange. With a studio in Anni entered the most productive than 30 pictorial weavings, five major fabrics. final hand-woven piece in 1968, at which printmaking: a process that would twenty years. She passed away on May 9, one of the most influential textile perhaps best known for her pictorial seen primarily as artworks. In the 1959, entitled &quot;Anni Albers Pictorial earliest weavings the magic of things not yet found useful as art, thousands of years of usefulness of woven materials have made worn, walked on, sat upon, to be cut up largely something no longer itself again to find a form for themselves to not to be sat on, walked on, only to be pictorial weavings.&quot; In an interview with Albers described the beginnings of her the loom and took some threads and do.&quot; about the term &quot;pictorial weaving,&quot; which textiles headed in the direction of art. these pieces which I considered distinguish them from what usually is has to do with the technique of weaving. unconcerned about the tapestry, the thought of the term pictorial weaving do with the technique of tapestry.&quot; textiles weren't always considered to be that painting or sculpture might be. textiles that were primarily functional, Yale University, was that any creative &quot;Designing usually means to give shape to a useful object. We do not speak of designing a picture or a concerto, but we speak of designing a house, a city, a bowl, a fabric. But surely they all, like a painting or music, can be works of art. Usefulness does not prevent a thing, anything, from being art. We must conclude then that it is the thoughtfulness and turn into art, and that it is this degree to arrive at.&quot; Crafts for their Contact with Materials,&quot; of a piece of art, but more, it teaches out of the shapeless. We learn from it no form before it is shaped. The temper, not its consistency. Things take working it, and no imagination is great what they will be like.&quot; On a very of giving form to art or craft to be an surface quality of one material plate textile elements, which were my medium, I mind was necessary to approach was devoted to letting her materials lead the creative process. She speaks &quot;When you work with a material and the two factors and something happens, what quite often said, and still believe that, the present art scene if there was more process.&quot; material and process that she was able reveals a sort of empathy for its &quot;Art: A Constant,&quot; writing, &quot;We can recognize which we superimpose upon it, provided its structure.&quot; &quot;The conscientious designer, does not the object-to-be a chance to design itself.&quot; In her 1965 essay, &quot;Designing as Visual Organization,&quot; Albers continues to must have with their materials. &quot;Material design, that is, through considered can become the carrier of a meaning that immediate reality. But an orderliness meaning in the superior sense, that is relatedness, their proportions must have nature. Nature, however, shows herself to though we always see it, remains hidden believe, to show us a wholeness that we important source, Albers's &quot;Understanding during her time at the Bauhaus had been Empathy.&quot; &quot;Our investigations proceed art, as an autonomous organism, stands deepest and innermost essence, devoid of nature is understood the visible surface account to be regarded as a condition of the course of evolution it seems to have art, and to some extent indeed positively nearly always abstract; references to natural world. Although rarely explicit, many of the systems within it. &quot;Your Goethe, who investigates plants from the they work with. That a plant that has little stem, has again, in the flowers, the systematically always recurring to a related probably also to the work that first prints in 1963. &quot;Josef had been workshop in California, to come and do there, June Wayne. So, we went, both of us, there, and he worked there in this workshop. One day, June Wayne asked me, 'Don't you want to try something?' So, I started something, and since I was a on my mind, I made a drawing that showed can do in weaving. In the discipline of horizontal/vertical, and, here, I've interlacings, and so on. I had the galleries and museums didn't show a craft and not art. And, as I always said, Having spent more than 40 years working stopped weaving in 1968, gave away the creative energies primarily to with threads had made an impression on Baro, she remarked, &quot;I am told that my still reflected in my unwoven work, my the sense that you feel driven by a point, right or wrong in the chosen order, an order that should not be us to art.&quot; That mystery may take many Albers audited a course at Yale given by George Kubler. His 1962 book, &quot;The Shape of Time,&quot; provides some insight: &quot;Actuality is when the lighthouse is dark between the watch: the void intervals slipping past and future: the gap at the poles of infinitesimally small but ultimately nothing is happening. years after making her first print Albers produced another set of prints threads and her new ventures in print. weaving in 1954, she revisited the form, interlacing or wandering lines, for a 1970s. She used printing techniques to achieve results that were not possible stencil turned and overlaid in ways that with very little added effort or producing the &quot;Meander Prints,&quot; writing, &quot;One: design screen, 1/2 inch smaller than background screen, placing it to the upper design screen upside down, placing it to background color. Four: Use new design inks make this possible and retain back to first design position. Print In much of her later work, notably her preparation for a commission for a wall Mexico City, Albers was preoccupied by decades. Her repeated triangular and chaotic. Though she rarely spoke gave the following insight, &quot;In my own certain system of forms related to each way of forming a crystal. And, that is, impurity, which is a catalyst. It's that when it is 100% pure, a crystal the natural world that Albers gleaned mathematician and philosopher, Alfred the imposing of a pattern on experience recognition of the pattern.&quot; Speaking on a 1982 Annual Conference, she returned to saying, &quot;What I have learned in handling process. Again I was led. My prints are paper as is the usual way. I worked with various media, turning the screens... What material is a means of communication. That listening to it, not dominating it makes us truly active, that is: to be active, be closer we come to art.&quot; Anni returned to If this has the sound of a teacher's oft throughout her entire career as an fact, I divided up in my mind what I three regions or areas: that the things to be mass-produced. The things that category in which I called, 'In the the teaching of weaving.&quot; Teaching a process can take many forms. Mountain College, Albers had to find a without yet having access to looms. She textile studies,&quot; essentially experiments materials to mimic the surfaces or Mountain I was for a while textiles without any looms, because there them go out into the fields, and they on paper just to simulate surfaces. I some photos in it. really is necessary to make it look like vertical directions or some very regular piece of paper, they don't look like a she widened their view of the origins imagine that no materials existed, and desert coast, and there we were in the the water was marvelous, fitted quite the skin of the fish you cut into strips other with knots, and you made some open So we developed from zero, gradually invented forward, until we invented the back-strap loom of Peru, and then the high-power looms, which are just After the Alberses moved to Connecticut teaching responsibilities for the first occasionally give private lessons to Sheila Hicks, then a student at Yale, recalled her time with Albers, &quot;I remember in a room off to the side of the living didn't appear to be utilitarian in giving meaning and expression to this understood her work back then, but now I doing. Her intelligent, technical seven brief meetings I had with Anni, Another weaving student from around that Dolores Dembus Bittleman, shared that week for a year or so in their living furniture near a pair of white threads and textiles and how they was that when you'd 'listen' quietly, threads them. We ranged the world from there.&quot; Anni Albers is rightly seen as one of last century. Her art, writing, and influence artists and designers all over which Karis and I are working right now sound and light, we talked with four to incorporate sound and/or light into a resident artist at the Albers and teacher, Michelle Yi Martin's recent by light and structure. My name is Michelle Yi Martin, and I'm a is weaving, and my main medium is light. not certain what light actually is, but I conditions, while being absolutely My first weavings began with the use of once used for his photography. I was transparent, crisp, and vivid qualities. and yarns, the gels created tiny windows dimension to weaving. When placed against a light source, there is an immediate warmth. Once I realized that the light controlled, I decided to focus entirely wanted to address the question, 'How does presently using transparent colored structures. These weavings are almost projections of the weaving. And, even more these various same pieces. It is the colors and their sculptural in playing with light as there is with one's capacity for play is really at the Francesca Capone, who lives in Portland, weave with light. I'm Francesca Capone, and I'm a visual designer. My work is primarily concerned with the creation of materials and a poetic Repeating patterns exist within the they do within weaving and in poetry. The complications; unknowns that we all must exploration shaping light into tactile light that I've experienced, and with light conductive technology. The unpredictable in their functionality and weaving, so I bend to the forms that with a two millimeter LED cord to create with metallic yarns. &quot;Skynet&quot; was created pattern, an artistic attempt to capture where I live here in the Pacific LED into the knitting pattern glows in constellation appears in the work. A perception of the same sky within one During her residency in 2014, her partner, Simon Barker, made a film of the loom. In this clip, Ismini is Artcraft Looms, that she and Simon had We conclude with one final word from &quot;In my own work, and in the things that I some kind of almost drawing power, it again and again, and widens your