Right next to a landfill in past a stack emitting garbage, there's an entirely management facility that's burying it. That crane picks up about each grab and it's slowly combustion. This combustion is known as recovery because it's used intense heat converts water the combustor into steam also creates carbon and landfills, it doesn't emit Fahrenheit, very efficient and we only use about three whole facility. Part of what's burned here of waste from big companies Quest Diagnostics, Sunny D a growing movement by send less to landfills. You can see there are some actually comes from an doesn't want to send these Amazon and other retailers dispose of returns they deem donate. It is our absolute last well as environmentally. We went to a facility run by U.S. energy recovery firsthand and find out why and parts of Europe and Asia waste while most of the U.S. landfills. With returns pouring in at discarded clothes generate pounds of landfill waste return rate over 20%, online be returned than those says they send no items to out how that was possible. There are a number of items not recyclable, and for reasons, or hygienic damage. And in those cases, for those items. While Covanta says it returns, and Amazon wouldn't about 10% of its business like Subaru, which likes to in zero-landfill plants. For us, we wanted to be zero to produce the car in a very way. What's in it for us is thing. When a major car says they're zero landfill, the reuse, the recycle. And a facility like a It's the fastest growing businesses are understanding understanding that one of sustainability is waste It's a corporate marketing going to make energy from sounds good, right? We all don't realize what it means it. But climate experts say the provides a net reduction of reasons. It keeps waste out more harmful methane. recovered by the process for mining. And it replaces be made by burning fossil For every ton of garbage ton of CO2 that you would burning a fossil fuel or that to a landfill, every the environmental impact of sending to a waste-to-energy Landfills make up 17% of global warming impact of than carbon dioxide on a bigger problem is, why do we first place? The U.S. is one developed countries in the trash generated per person, the City College of New York combustion space for 20 We produce about four pounds give you an idea of what know, your outfit that instead of taking it off and throw it away. In Europe, in that's generated is about indisputable that recycling better, not all materials do we do with the record 292 generated by Americans each landfilled, while about a incinerated at There are approximately 70 facilities compared to say In parts of Europe and Asia, When you look at how much versus landfill, it's really Countries like Japan, energy recovery far more waste incineration doubled critics like Neil Tangri of Incinerator Alternatives over-added capacity for the Denmark now realizes that it and if it is going to meet targets it's going to need incineration. Sweden and now imports waste from waste incinerators burning them down. In the U.S., the first York in 1895 and by 1905, generate enough electricity Bridge. More than half of U.S. waste-to-energy as a unlike landfills, many consider it a source of including the Environmental Susan Thorneloe leads management. Is it better for clean burn or bury waste, and it combust it because you get get metals from it and methane. To understand why many more and more companies energy recovery over at how it works. In that big building is and steam is made from it. turbine that spins because jet engine. And that then makes the electricity. Paul Gilman runs all of Covanta's 40-plus produce enough power for Stanislaus facility was At this facility, we process a year for the county. And about 18,000 homes. This facility also recovers metal each year from the like these chunks of that will be sold and turned aluminum cans and copper You'd be amazed what people everything from the can go ahead and get the like and recycle that, the landfill it'd be lost Tons of aluminum that's facilities, tons of copper. out of the ground, okay, And now it's safe to use The steam can also be piped up to a mile away to buildings. There's a that's in Minnesota that Minnesota Twins baseball underneath the grass to keep wintertime. In Paris, 50% of the city's three waste-to-energy harness energy from the organic material, but far gas generates enough power year, compared to 2.3 fewer waste-to-energy We recover almost 10 times amount of waste than is The EPA estimates that for electricity generated, average of just over half a equivalent gases. Landfills plants emit nearly double. You don't see what people smoke because that's what system manages. Covanta's public data shows stack in Stanislaus are far standards. That's because its smoke and combusted filtration process with limestone scrubbers before The air pollution control on old fashioned a lot of people's ire. But contributes less than 1% to this county. Dioxin and mercury are some emissions that concern to facilities like one in regulators found was was contaminating grass and surrounding area. Despite the air pollution monitoring, there are still smoke from particulates to arsenic, cadmium, and you monitoring systems and our than in Europe. But other scientists say air come so far in the last two toxins have largely been Studies have been done that say, dioxin that's emitted facilities in one year is gets formed from forest But the incineration process toxic ash. The environmental test our ash on a regular out anything like a heavy cadmium or leads. And our tests. In Europe, they separate the the safer bottom ash to make road construction. But in ash are usually mixed toxic to be reused. So it's So behind us is the ash fill that's come from this plant in operation. It's all right There's probably more that we can use. But because I just don't see that And waste-to-energy landfills, are infamous for disproportionately poor Nobody wants to live next to any waste facility. And white communities generally stop it. People ask, is it safe? And People asked me, would you answer is yes, I did for about this industry. My town a town that had one of these And yet, the U.S. has only facilities compared to 410 facility we visited is one There's a real question why most of the U.S. for with our landfills. But it's have a lot of land, that luxury with. It also comes down to the are big business. While billion industry, the industry is at $208 billion. Waste Management and outperformed the market keep prices down and keep For a ton of garbage, how know, make it go away? And landfill, the nominal is it's somewhere between it to a waste-to-energy between say $85 and $120. One of the reasons Europe is imposing, basically, a tax a landfill. But waste-to-energy is also estimating revenues at $20 Covanta was on a big upward last year when a Swedish for $5.3 billion. In fact, most expensive commercial to handle waste. So why then burning their waste instead If Amazon sends all of its somebody could go to the that would be a horrifying something, you hide the And in some scenarios, the better financial choice. When we think about could be closer and in other waste-to-energy tip fees are landfill tip fees in part on landfill airspace or the take that. Another consideration is the transporting waste. Sending it to 1,000-mile transport waste-to-energy facility, halfway across the United because you typically find facilities located in the States, in Florida, in The reality is, both energy far less green than recycling. You're arguing for last important thing to do is to particularly organics out of returns were being people at a discount instead we wouldn't have to have it's better or worse to bury Amazon has indeed been more returns are resold as liquidated and says it's zero product disposal, target date for that lofty It also wouldn't share the returns go to energy If you look in nature, there used in some way. And so That's the direction that we're not there yet. And so different materials? Until consumer behavior plants will continue to for big corporations and Stanislaus County, where 15-year contract extends Would we want to see no Absolutely. But we're not And we're not there policy heat out of it and use it to electricity out of it and mined, then that would be happening at all.