My parents would have described So I would run around, very high energy. This is Anthony Tan, co-founder and CEO of Grab. If you've ever had to hail a ride in southeast is more than the region's Uber; Grab's become The company has built itself of eight major Southeast Asian countries, providing day-to-day services and a source of income for more than If you ask me, providing 13 million impact and poverty alleviation That's what I would say makes us all really happy. Our calling is one that How do we make sure Grab's latest push has been so, to learn more, I've come to to hear from Anthony Tan himself. - Hello. - Welcome. - Five star treatment today. So how often do you drive for Grab? Not that often. I mean, I The learnings, like how in certain buildings, the security treats you treat you It really feels awful, and that's when you really have a much better appreciation of Do I get five stars? Five stars. And a tip. And a tip, yeah. Good, generous customer. Life advice with Anthony Tan. There are three numbers to $25,000, the Grab seed money Anthony won from a $2.15 million, Grab's first And 2.36 billion, the amount This is Founder Effect. Anthony grew up as the youngest son in His grandfather founded Tan Chong Motor, one southeast Asian nation, but Anthony's I've seen how my parents worked My father used to remind me: Oh, your and now it's our turn to beat it yours, which is: you can sleep all So, it wasn't like they took In fact, they saw it as you're from you than the average Joe out Before creating Grab, Anthony worked at his When I worked for my dad's factory, I was spot welding. I remember giving a speech to thank the folks I remember tearing as I spoke to them, for 20, 30, 40, years, and I appreciated and I could never really appreciate In 2009, Anthony began his studies where he met his co-founder Tan Hooi Ling. I'm very, very thankful for I did classes like "business and that's where I really She didn't do her homework as frequently as I did, so she strategically positioned And we created a love for each other We wanted to serve Southeast Asia. The idea for Grab stemmed the inefficiencies and dangers The original idea was to solve safety And the whole idea was basically, environmental benefit and you can create economic During their second year at Harvard, at a start-up contest called the They took home $25,000. We got first runner up, and the reason Malaysia is just too small and a Southeast Asian growth enterprise I spoke to my dad, I told him dispatch system, and he didn't understand it. He then said: Hey, I don't so please don't disturb me about this anymore. My mother also said she didn't understand, but she With that seed capital from my mother and myself, I put in everything my bank had, In June 2012, Anthony and his co-founder At the time, it was called "MyTeksi." The OG office, was literally in the driver's room. Poor ventilation, and we didn't even have When Ling and I first started, we didn't have that much money and I remember going to the early days of very it was part of the ESG team that said: We We could take these phones and then There were times when, I remember when so I am grateful that people took bets with me Just one year after Grab's launch, the investment of over $2 milion from Vertex Ventures. So when you decided to leave the family Oh, it was tough. I'll never forget that. It was this idea of like, never being enough. My dad disowned me. It was life that you're gonna go back to the My dad used to tell me you're useless. You I would say, in a weird kind of way, I'm grateful because it helped me realize CNBC reached out to Anthony's father via his company for comment. We did not In 2016, the company rebranded and hit unicorn status, a start-up Today, we have 13 million It's not like, and it happens, I mean, I remember in Ho Chi, Minh, so at like, three or four in the morning, we realized taxi drivers would go So, we could afford, with a very kind coffee canister and it will give And that was when we pitched hard It was that constant pitch of why we're different because they said: You don't really And that's been consistent. Grab's journey has been far from easy. The company has faced strong including from the likes of If you looked at those odds, it looked And I told Dara when I first met him, and I respect the company. but iron, sharpens iron, you guys pushed In 2018, Uber agreed to sell Grab in exchange for a 27.5% stake in the company. As part of the deal, Uber's CEO It was a tear-shed moment for all Grabbers. It was going to be announced at 10am. We didn't even know the deal We were still negotiating till like two I remember when it signed and the deal got closed, many of us in the meeting We're just like: 'I can't believe This deal established Grab's dominance in It's been all about this ecosystem mindset. That's what differentiates us; When we first started, it was Then there were many attempts to hurt So then we said: No, let's digitize their money. We said: Look, drivers during off-peak hours from to do; how do we give them more utilization, And we realized Grab Food was perfect in And then during the times of quarantine, we said: Wow, people really need their People may say: Hey, Anthony, Well, it's a big niche that has a In December 2021, Grab made history at the time, the world's largest SPAC deal. So, did you ever anticipate that Grab I literally just had this We didn't. None of us did. We were happy to be 100 million ringgit company. Currently, Grab is zeroed in on AI. The company is set to launch a new designed with visually impaired users in mind. It is a major shift, from web to mobile. So one, it's really getting our way of working, in this complete Second is then seeing how it's solutions that customers have never seen before. If you go back and talk to a younger version It's gonna be really hard. Honestly, maybe it was ignorance is bliss, and if I knew it was gonna be so hard, But is it extremely rewarding? Look, I got the longer end of stick, but there are many who weren't as blessed. If you're ever to start again, or be very clear, it has to be your life calling. I really mean it. If you don't, don't do it, And lastly, how this is more of How does your dad feel now Well, the reality is, he I will continue to reach out with love and I hope one day you will see that And I'm always grateful that of Confucianism, the idea of working People say you're zero to hero, but it's not me. It's all these unnamed heroes and angels literally stood on the shoulders of