Excitement and hope permeated the crowds gathered east Texas. The rumor was that Columbus Joiner had won and lost several fortunes in the oil business, 1930, he might just have one more in him. As the swabbed the water and mud up and out of the well, the ramshackle derrick began to rumble and shake. showering black oil on the cheering crowd. It was the "discovery" well for what would quickly become the largest and most prolific oil field Joiner would lose that fortune too, but the boom The sudden inrush of oil workers and including the unincorporated town of New so one was built in 1932. But no one could the first place would ultimately rob it of of the worst school disasters in US history. With all of the extra population and tax revenue wealthiest rural school districts in America, and building sat on a gentle slope with a footprint north and south wings projected out from the the main floor. But the main part of the school level. This crawlspace had just two doors into the for circulation. The school was originally but the school board changed the plan individual gas-fired radiators throughout the company for the following years until The Parade Gasoline Company had constructed a school. Natural gas is an incredibly important considered a byproduct of oil drilling. The supply gas was difficult to transport at large scales. wouldn't arrive until after World War II. But natural gas by cooling the vapor. The resulting uses and could even be used as a low-quality Parade's plant was a simple operation. It accepted condensates, and then sent the "residue" gas where it was mostly burned off in flares. it was common practice at the time for homes, reach of the residue pipe to tap a line without the company was already getting rid of it, This might seem like an outrageous and dangerous accustomed to risk, especially when lots of people immediate and obvious. In New London, the school per month on their heating bill (several thousand connection was made by two bus drivers, a janitor, the new line. They installed a regulator to reduce pipe. From there, the gas would flow into the suspended by straps. 96 individual connections throughout the school. But the district would On Thursday, March 18, 1937, near the end of teachers eager to be let out for a long weekend. a teacher powered on an electric sander, complete the circuit. Unbeknownst to the shop the crawlspace had filled with an explosive the knife switch was all it took to ignite Except for the two doors and four small vents, concrete. With nowhere to escape, the pressure of upward, buckling the walls, and then collapsing concrete slab was blown over 200 feet from the lot. There were over 500 students, faculty and as many parents, who had been at the PTA meeting sound and ran to the scene. Soon, the school was emergency personnel, all doing whatever they could The Texas Inspection Bureau report The story broke across the US, and was reported on a very young Walter Cronkite, working for the he recounted: Mother Frances Hospital had just about 25 miles east of New London. An all-day had been planned for Friday, March 19. the explosion that Thursday afternoon they facilities in the surrounding area were donations and offers to help. In the end, the The governor of Texas declared martial law in to form a military court of inquiry, and governments got involved as well. Their first explosion. There were rumors that the blast was been using it to construct a running track at the were stored below the auditorium on the day of the Investigators were confident that gas caused source. They tested the school's sewer system drilled more than 70 holes into the soil below were seeping up from the ground. Their detectors only possible source was also the most obvious: Looking back, there may very well have been complaining about headaches in the week leading up board members had, in fact, met the day of the complaints. A school janitor even searched the lit a match to get a better view. Either or it hadn't reached an explosive mixture yet. event and found to explode when mixed with air All the investigation reports suggested that extraction plant residue line didn't directly gas's chemical composition was different, it previous supply. And, the regulator should have coming from the residue line. The Bureau of difficulty should have resulted from its use." supply was performed by an unqualified The Texas Inspection Bureau report noted of all trades and probably masters of none" leaks or tightened joints, or they may have just We'll never know for sure what caused the leak explosion. But, the investigations did cite a and severity of the disaster. The crawlspace was creating a huge volume for natural gas to and limited sources of ventilation left no easy making the explosion extra powerful. And odorless. There was no way to detect a leak. gas from the extraction plant would have surrounded by oil wells where the smell of But, ultimately, the inquiry found in the disaster. Although the dangers of safety regulations just hadn't kept pace with resulted from a number of profound misjudgments, the court issued recommendations to lawmakers to which were echoed by the other investigative forever affect the fields of engineering, Within a few months, Texas passed two the growing ranks of states requiring the anyone could call themselves an engineer and their experience or qualifications. The oversee the licensing process, helping build the possibility of unqualified engineers public safety. Similar laws and licensing would The second major law that resulted from the odorization of natural gas. Many utilities were voluntarily adding chemicals to their but the new law in Texas created standards of the US. Only a few months after that law shipping an odorizer invented by two Texans, London. The Type "M" Oderizer could precisely accounting for any changes in flow rate Mechanical Engineering Landmark by the American and odorizers of its kind have likely saved easily detectable by smell. Odorization got its Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, and is now a across the world. Natural gas is so closely (commonly known as ethyl mercaptan) that many It's interesting to look back on an event how different our world is now. There are so out so differently within the current system of that we largely take for granted. And that's directly like those new laws, or indirectly our mistakes. In the face of such a horrific accidents have been averted by our ability to them. It gives me some comfort at least. Natural planet right now. That's not to say there are no we'll grow less dependent on it over time, but nearly everyone in a huge variety of ways. And Texas before now, you can feel fairly you've also benefited in some way from A few months ago I got an email about personal email. Not a big deal, but I try to keep thinking I had accidentally posted it somewhere, I knew that was a thing, but it was surprising me thinking about the implications of personal had recently reached out to sponsor a video. I We all get junk mail, spam emails, and that stuff is unavoidable, but those lists have to but data brokers can have more insidious take out loans in your name, stalk you, and decide what ads to show you and even the prices offer a way to remove your information, all with their own specific form to You authorize them to act on your behalf for this from online databases. And then you're done. have taken your info down, and Incogni just keeps estimate that, if I were to do all this myself, It's tough to correlate this to a reduction a lot fewer unwanted phone calls since I me is the proactive part of it. It just companies to use my and my family's personal like the same peace of mind, they're at the link in the description. Take back incogni.com/practicalengineering. Thank you