OMG, look at that! OMG, too much chili! I didn't know they sold hamburgers at a Domino's. How strange! [Noise] [Music] American Fast Food at India Is coming, is coming, is coming a classic video about American fast food around the world. We are at Indias sub-continent , a massive country with 1.5 billion people and our task is to find out how have the big American fast food restaurants adapted to be able to sell their food in this territory. in South Korea... in many parts of the world, and it never ceases to amaze me. I have seen how they sell soups at McDonald's, I have seen how they sell dog food at Burger King. These big companies would put a seahorse India will be especially interesting because 'cause pork is considered an unclean animal of vegetarian population. Besides that, everything at India is really spicy, the gastronomy here makes, even the strongest tongue, get burn. So yes, Very spicy, and probably everything will be pretty cheap. So, let's start. What have the big American fast food companies done, to adapt at this territory and become successful? That's what we're about to find out. Let's go for it! [Music] So let's start, obviously we're going to begin with the classic of classics, McDonald's. McD's is how they call it here in India, we bought most of the menu and it was less than 30 dollars, really good prices and the menu is different. observation, it really amazed me how modern McDonald's is here, you can order at a screen, tables are so pretty, it's cool. Well, first interesting thing, there's not a single thing at the menu with beef, obviously, neither pork, nor lamb, buffalo... nothing, just chicken or vegetarian, it is what it is, triple beef, no no no. For 120 rupees, a dollar and a half, we start with the Mcveggie, Possibly made with chickpeas. Yes, indeed, it is chickpea, I had already I give it five out of ten. Now, for 42 rupees, half dollar, the Beg Pizza McPuff. This is a pie like the ones they sell all over the world. Apple, strawberry... but pizza flavor. How morbid! It is vegetarian pizza, something tells me this is going to be delicious. Even smoke came out of it. Mmm! it smells so good. I can see it has some peas here, I see it has like onions too. Oh wow! what a great complement, it has lettuce, it has peas, corn, tomato sauce, green beans. It also have some green beans here, it's even kinda nutritious. In India, all food in general, gastronomy seems delicious to me, is that why you see few chubby people on the street? I don't know, maybe. I feel I'm eating well even at McDonald's I'm eating well for 200 rupees, a little more than two dollars. The spicy chicken mc wrap. We've began with the spicy stuff! These I had already eat them, in Arab countries they usually sell them, they call them mc'arabia, which are these wraps, they open up in a very nice way. Watch that! You open it like this, even the packaging is nice. Uff! Looks good. I can feel a good piece of chicken, the breast, Enjoy. It's delicious! See, it's basically a tender, it's quite spicy. I feel my tongue as if it were tied. If I eat this whole, I will be already full. I eat my complement, my These should be implemented at more parts of the world, delicious. I'm going to give it an eight. Chicken wraps!. the Maharaja Mac. They have Big Mac all over the world, which is the classic 2 meat burger, triple bun, very tasty from McDonald's. Well, there is no Big Mac in India , there is Maharaja Mac. Why? Because Kings, Indias royalty used to be called Maharajas, like McDonald's royal dish. Same way it's a chicken one. Let's check it out. Look at this, it's so morbid that it comes with a little wrapper here so it won't spread. Oh, boy! This will be spicy. Look, these are chilies, it came outside. Well, this must be stuffed with chilies. Let's go OMG, look at that! OMG, too much chili! I'm not going to take them off, just to respect the recipe. But if it were up to me they would already be outside. Oh wow! they change a lot the Big Mac recipe , let's see, first of all, obviously because it's chicken, hamburger, never seen that in a Bic mac. Third place, the whole tomato, whole onions, that's also something we don't see in a Big Mac. Oh god!! no, no, no, no, I'm gonna bite it with all the chili, Okay, just to respect the recipe and try it as it is. But I repeat, if it were up to me, bye bye to all that chili! Cool, huh? Indias Bic Mac, called Maharaja Mac, is too spicy, has too much onion. Oops, let's see how it goes. Enjoy. Yes, I felt it. Oh! Why do they eat so spicy here? They really love it, Okay, I'm gonna give it a 6.5 out of 10. Oh, and I haven't show you this, check it out. One of the condiments that McDonald's offers you here is the Piripiri, it's India. The truth is, it's quite spicy, and look at this one, Tandoori mustard, which is also spicy. Yes, everything's spicy here. You come to McDonald's and everything is spicy even here. You can't trust anyone here when they say to you: not spicy my friend, it means it actually does, quite a bit for a foreigner. Let's try now the Piripiri from McDonald's. Oh, yes, Yes it's spicy, and tastes to much like garlic. Garlic, pepper, it's what it is. And lastly, for 100 rupees, a little more than a dollar, this one called Butter paneer, I imagine it must be spicy as well. Something tells me that if it's a local recipe, it's spicy. Look, is this little burger. Okay, the truth is I hadn't seen it anywhere in the world, tiny. Of course, it's from the dollar menu, we are going to go inside it. Oh boy, that looks lethal, go make your bets. it's a type of cheese from India which is an alternative for those who don't eat meat, Enjoy. I feel like it's going to be so spicy. I didn't really like it, not at all. I'm going to give two, no, I didn't like it at all. It's interesting, I don't know which country eats more spicy, India or South Korea. You see we upload there too and everything was spicy. I didn't like this one at all, and the sauce on top, I respect you like it. I respect that, it's fine, I understand, but it's not for me. Well, let's cool down, with our cold coffee with the ice cream they put it on top. It's like a chubby dessert, wow! It's really great to take the spicy off, yes my tongue was begging for it. Good job McDonald's, well transformed their recipes and it's no mystery, it's extremely successful in India, you see them everywhere. And look, it's crowded. People love it, it fascinates them. Well, let's calm the tongue, turn it off, and let's continue tasting fattening things. [Music] We entered now to Domino's pizza, you know, the international restaurant chain that's everywhere and of course India is not an exception. I've never seen so many vegetarian pizzas in a Domino's. Look, in fact, mine just arrive. has chilies, peppers, all kinds of vegetables. I'm especially impressed by how cheap it is, it's so cheap, check out this promo, this is a whole menu of 49 rupees, like 55 cents. You can buy yourself an individual pizza tomato pizza, an onion pizza, some chips, a soda. I think you don't even buy a soda with half dollar in my country. It's so, so cheap. And I ordered a hamburger. This catches my attention a lot, I didn't know they sell hamburgers in a Domino's, but it is not as a normal hamburger, they told me that the Burger pizza is like a hamburger, obviously a chicken one, but with a lot of cheese. By the way, here for example if you order they play a lot with chicken in Domino's hit the hamburger. It's falling down. Wow, pretty small chicken burger, this one cost me 160 rupees, two dollars, and check it out it has a lot of spices in the bun, like lots and lots of pepper, crumbled chili pepper, I can see there a bit of paprika i think, and in the inside it's like full of vegetables. Let's see, That's funny, a hamburger at Domino's Pizza, I didn't see that coming. Let's see, Enjoy. Wow! that's good! It's not spicy at all. they're really good. Actually, wow! It's I can perceive tomato, red chili pepper, and green chili pepper. And it's brutal! Check out how cheese... It's really cheesy, it is hamburger , I've never seen it before, not give it a 10 out of 10, it's really brutal. And to sweeten the palate, we are gonna try one of the desserts, it's called lava-licious, okay. This is a little chocolate cake, with a lot of chocolate inside, so that's why it's called lava, cause it's like a volcano. Oh boy! Look at this, comes in a little dish like this. How fancy, Oh my gosh!, this little dessert costs 100 rupees, a little over a dollar, 10 out of 10. A chocolate cake never fails. I liked it, Indias Domino's Pizza! Let's go to see what else we find. [Music] Time to try Kentucky Fried Chicken, KFC. And of course, we've barely spent money here too, what is this?, like 12 dollars on everything we ordered and we got several delicacies. We came to a mall where there's a lot of but we didn't really find anything unusual, at KFC we did find recipes worthy of being documented. For less than 300 rupees, less than 4 dollars, they sell this dish which is called Chizza, which is basically a chicken pizza, &quot;All Chicken, not crost&quot;, just chicken, no shore. And that's what it is, basically a pizza. that instead of dough has chicken. Let's see how it is... Oops, it looks strange. Cant say it looks eatable ha ha. It looks a little bit like puke, as if someone had thrown up here at the box and they sold it to me like that. But maybe it is good. We don't know yet, let's see, I see it' has cheese here, it has like chili pepper, it obviously has like tomato sauce, Let's see. Okay I'll grab a piece, Yes, just like a pizza a cut myself a slice. Let's try. Oh, big surprise! It's spicy, it's unbelievable, 80% of the stuff we've tried has chili, the flavor is not bad at all, good amount of cheese, the vegetables are fine, I taste pepper, tomato, onion, red chili pepper too. 8.5 out of 10. Now, if I complained about the spiciness of the pizza, this one is really going to make me cry. Smokey red Chicken, smokey red chicken as it says, it's a recipe KFC shows off, it is very spicy and if that wasn't enough, they give it to you with this thing called spicy gravy, which is like the gravy that is eaten a lot at the USA, at Thanksgiving for example, but this one's spicy and the color is red, deep red. Oh boy, just by smelling it, it's burning my boogers. Oh no, something tells me it will be tough. Let's do it. It cost 200 rupees, two dollars more or less. Oh, it's has like little pieces of chili in here, it does look like a recipe made for strong palate and stomach people, enjoy. I still don't feel it, I still don't feel it. There it is, of course it was going to come. Oh no, this one is spicy for real. Oh no, omg. It's so spicy, to the point where I'm really not going to soak it into the sauce. It's spicy enough for me. I'm going to give the sauce just a finger try not stay with the desire. Oh, what a bad idea, awful, What an awful idea I had. Hey no, I would have bought a milkshake, an ice cream, cause no, no, no. This is serious. Wow, I would never order it for pleasure, ever, very spicy. Recipes that only exist in India for sure. I'm personally going to give it a 4 out of 10, but for those of you who like it spicy, it is surely a delight. a chicken bucket they call Viviani comes with rice, with a lot of rice, and the promo's good, it costs 420 rupees and it supposedly is for two people, about five dollars Just the typical Indian rice, little bit of pepper. It's not really spicy, it has a lot of species but it is not spicy at all. This is going to be good. The chicken leg, how tasty. Brutal, excellent. I would order it a thousand and one times again, very good. And with the rice I feel like I had a complete meal, as if I were massive worldwide chicken corporate. Thank you Grandma Kentucky, that was very tasty. [Music] Well there you have it, I've been legitimately coupled with the vegetarian recipes, a round of applause for all of these companies that have managed to penetrate the market in which today is the largest country in the world. Of course they want to be successful here, here's the money, this is where the economy is flowing and evolving. What do you think my friends? what dishes do you like? what dishes do you look like something you sell in your locations? Please, I read you down here and we'll see you as always, you already know, in a few days with a new video. Bye.