(shaking can clicking) (lid popping off) (aerosol spraying) - Recently there was a in the scientific community that there's a bunch of smaller objects in the outer solar system that appear to be of a massive hidden ninth planet. So this planet is 10 times It's a hundred billion kilometers away, and it takes 15,000 years So I've seen some pretty impressive videos about the scale of the solar system, but they're all still pretty abstract. Because they're either using or they're using objects and distances that have no real world association. So I'm going to attempt to fix that today by representing the planets with just junk you could find overlaid onto this football field. So we'll start by reviewing the scale of the first eight planets, and then I will attempt to blow your mind by showing you exactly predicted ninth planet is. (bell dings) I'm so I'm so I'm so I'm so I'm so I'm so (aerosol can clicking and spraying) If you ask how far away most people give an answer... - [Mark] Like this... - [Mark] And it's kind of understandable. About right there? - Okay Stop. - [Mark] Because every picture looks like these, including my own report on the solar system from the fourth grade. (buzzer buzzing) So this is the true scale starting with our size which puts Mercury at the 10 yard line as a mere fleck of pepper. (jazzy music) Next is Venus at the 19 yard line. (jazzy music continues) And it's about the head of a pin. Next up is my favorite planet, Earth. (jazzy music continues) Orbited by our grain of salt, moon. (jazzy music continues) So if you retain nothing just remember that Earth is and it's at the 26 yard line. (jazzy music continues) And as the final rocky planet we have Mars at the 40 yard line, also a fleck of pepper. And now we start to see bigger gaps. And more than a football we have Jupiter which is (jazzy music continues) And after a little bit of exercise, we come to Saturn which is and two and a half football fields away from our soccer ball sun. (jazzy music continues) Next up is the seventh planet, Uranus, which is the size of a pea. And its orbit is an average away from our sun. (jazzy music continues) And finally, we come to Neptune, which is also the size of a pea and orbits around our sun, nearly eight football fields away. Now this view should help you appreciate the difficulty in accurately representing both the size and distance in a single image. Okay, so before we get to the (jazzy music continues) So we've got a pepper flake at And then a pinhead at the And then another pinhead for And then a pepper flake And then of course the asteroid belt. And then we make it to Jupiter, which is a grape at about 135 yards. Then we cross the street to get to Saturn, which is a grape that orbits at about two and a half football fields Then we double our distance from the sun to get to the seventh at five football fields away. And finally, at nearly away from our sun, we have another pea, which is Neptune. (jazzy music continues) And now we've laid the framework for understanding just how Because to reach it, I would need to walk. And to walk some more. And to keep walking at a brisk pace for five and a half hours before I finally reached And while of course you can't see it, you'll just have to take my word that directly in front of or 309 football fields away there's a yellow size five soccer ball sitting in an end zone. In fact, the width of that column you see represents the extent of as we know it today. (jazzy music continues) From a different perspective, if you parked your spaceship It blows my mind that relatively speaking, our sun, 17 and a half miles away, would be able to keep this pea in orbit. But what's just as fascinating to me is when you consider the sun is represented by a soccer ball, which anyone could easily And yet our massive star we call the sun, is pretty small when In fact, the largest star we know next to our soccer ball size sun would be as tall as the So I want to close by telling you guys the craziest thing I learned about space while working at NASA for nine years. Twenty years ago, astronomers and decided to point the Hubble telescope at the darkest patch of Now, this was risky because was extremely limited, and there was a good chance the image would come back completely dark. So they started exposing the shot. And for 10 days, photons and ended their journey on Hubble's CCD detector. And at the end of 10 days, With the exception of these single stars, every speck, smudge, and is a galaxy with hundreds just like our own Milky Way. And what truly makes this mind blowing is the portion of the sky is the size of Roosevelt's eye on a dime held at arms length. To think about it another way, there are more stars in the universe than there are grains of beaches, ocean floors and So next time you're near And just imagine that is our sun with its orbiting planets. And then look at the hundreds of thousands of additional grains of sand in your hand each with their own orbiting planets. And then while holding that contemplate how many handfuls So in my mind, regardless of how you think this whole universe came to be, there seems to be an that we are alone. (jazzy music continues)