In today's video, I want to share with you 50 ways easy and simple things that I've been doing for me to spend less and save more. And together, they Now of course, these are all very personal to me you and your situation. But I'm sure that there everyone. And especially with just how expensive of value in looking at ways that we can spend also being able to splurge every once in a while Welcome back everyone. And if you're new and inspiration for living a simpler, happier below if you haven't already to follow along, week. I've broken down the 50 tips in this video lifestyle, everyday items, activities and the video chapters to kind of skip around if you Let's start with intentional shopping tips first. buying anything new ever. Or being super frugal the things that I really love and enjoy. It mostly money goes, how I'm shopping to make sure that I'm make sure that I make the most out of every euro use. The first thing I always try is to decrease here's an example let's say I buy a pair of jeans jeans, the lower the cost per use will be. So if use will be 6 euros. But if I wear those jeans 60 cents. Timing your purchases strategically and shopping for for things just because they're on were already going to buy until they're on sale. I do it all the time with our groceries. For one get one free. And we get this all the time, and a lot of margarine. These are three euros each which means that we saved 12 euros. And these will Or with bigger purchases. If you're thinking you can wait until Black Friday comes around would have spent otherwise, if you got it now. For and we saved 250 euros on it because it was on with it for free. So if you need new clothing season sale. Or if you want holiday decorations, for only a fraction of the price. Number three, call companies and ask for a better deal or to some shopping around and we got a much better deal And that saves us like tens of euros every month. now and then and see if you can get a better deal, four, no impulse buys. One of the best changes to make a rule for myself to not buy things on to think it over. And four out of five times, I days have passed. Another addition here is to try instead of replacing it immediately. For instead of immediately replacing it and buying we could live without it. And we now just buy and it's perfectly fine. It tastes really good. So try out what life is like without that item up missing it. Number five: first bills, then we first check to see how much money we have and Then the bills are already taken care of. Then so that is also set aside. And the money that is the bills and the savings have already been with bigger purchases, get in the habit of doing products, different brands, to see which one fits the best price quality ratio. And then when you to see where you can get it for the best price. of a part two to the previous one. But if you are somewhere else, like at a competitor, and you it for you. Because they want you as a customer you go to the checkout or the cash register, see somewhere else and show them. Number eight: no stopped doing this just as a hobby for fun and it the curb. So try and make it easier for yourself your phone that make you want to go shopping. Next up is everyday items. And number nine is that you have a lot of a certain category of first. We do this for example all the time with by using what we have in the fridge or pantry. Or before you're allowed to get new ones. Or drinking Or using all your arts and crafts supplies. back to zero first, before you're allowed to out. We Dutchies tend to be frugal by nature. is scraping everything out of something before we single drop. So I always twist up the toothpaste out. Or scraping the bottoms of jars, or cutting that I'm getting the most out of the money that I Electronics are expensive. So I always try to make them. Our TV is eight years old. mMy phones is 11 years old. And they all still work fine, so They try and tell us that like we need a new Number 12: one bag. I went from someone who was that, to now only owning one of them per category. I'm only going out for a short while. One backpack my water bottle. And then one big backpack that to all be pink, but that happened by accident. time for years and years, and there is hardly continue using these instead of going out buying setting boundaries for your things. Try and set category of items you're allowed to own. So for a rule that all my jewelry needs to be able to fit that means that I cannot buy any more. Number 14: wallets, suitcases, watches. In my experience, we you can just invest in one high quality one that you can save yourself a lot of money. Number 15: because we live in like a throwaway society, that ourselves. So I just try to take good care of make them last years and years, instead of having my laundry. We don't own a dryer. So I always line I'm sure that this isn't that practical for you. it's perfectly fine. Not using a dryer saves us try them on a drying rack. But also, it makes and everything else lasts a lot longer. So I sell what you don't need. If there's try and see if you can sell it and get some money after really thinking it over for a long time. needs, it wasn't working out for us. It's a whole patrons. But we made about half of the money making a purchasing mistake like that in the not either. So we all end up with things that we if there are still like slightly valuable, then Let's talk about lifestyle. Because these of by how I'm living my life. The first thing is exercising whatsoever. I only have a yoga mat YouTube video, whatever I'm in the mood for. I It saves me time, it saves me money, and yeah like going for a walk or going for a run are also no gifts. My partner and I almost completely to our anniversary, the holidays, valentines, and each other anything. We just found that most of we might want or need. So it's pretty pointless it's your birthday, or just because it's your together instead. Number 20: cheap phones. When my from the Samsung A line instead of the S line, And then I got a very cheap sim only subscription. my phone last me years and years and years, I am spending way less money on my phone than I were like 50 euros a month or more. Being mindful are turning down the lights when you leave a or laundry machine, washing machine, is full to make sure that you are not wasting electricity that stuff needs to be left in your hair for about of letting it run, I will turn off the shower and a book or something for 10 minutes. And then I I always try and make sure I'm dressing for the really have air conditioning here. But even in the sure I'm not dressing too warmly and then having I am not exaggerating when I say that I often wear and then a blanket and warm fuzzy slippers. And then. Number 23: living smaller. We recently say it was cheap, because it's not. We are dealing absolutely loco. But we did decide to go for a center, so that we wouldn't have to max out on much for your housing in relation to your income, try to avoid it. I've made a whole video about buying an apartment as a minimalist, so I will in case you're interested. Number 24, we don't that we are able to get by without owning a car. walk a lot. And by doing that, we are able to go about 40 to 50 euros a month on public transport. example if we have to lug heavy groceries back to go somewhere and it takes us like an hour to get minutes. But in the end, this saves us hundreds we are more than willing to make. Number 25: no person inside of me still is sometimes tempted to at a cheap store. But from experience I've learned And in the end, will only cost you more. They're problematic in so many ways. So I try to avoid will last me years and years and years, even if becoming more low maintenance. I basically facials, massages. I stopped getting my hair dyed So absolutely no shame of course, if you do enjoy is just personal to me. But I find that I really because it saves me both time and money. Saving that I want something but it can wait a while, have something to ask for when my birthday comes do do birthday gifts with. And they usually ask anything that I want. And this way, I can always a new pair of yoga pants, and some really taking shopping breaks. Every once in a while, a week, or one day a week, or something that works the absolute essentials. This is great for just just seeing that actually, we really don't need a low buy list at the start of a new year every reflect and I make a list of things that I either do a low buy for. So like a max of three things and plants, and wardrobe items, and all kinds way to kind of reflect on the past year, and make no special outfits that can only be worn at very any like special occasions clothing. Also just where I often go to events and things like that. two special occasions outfits, and just kind shopping for image. Something that minimalism can things that we want to buy for ourselves or just or that we want to buy just to present a kind of Most of what I bought when I was younger, was just And also just now that I've gotten a bit older, just 100% content with how my life is now. And else. So that really has helped me to save a things than I used to. Number 32, knowing what I used to kind of worry sometimes that I might partying and participating in the nightlife and because it's not something that I really find don't like, and not feeling like we have to do of money. Because those things tend to be quite gratitude is a major one. Because you know, even have, and now owning you know a lot fewer items ever. So by focusing on what I do have, and really go out and look for something to buy or to add everything that I need. So gratitude just brings All right, let's talk activities and money is by always traveling out of season. This we're now tied to any school vacations. And it's traveling out of season is always hundreds of tourists when you do go. Whether we go for a trip go abroad, we always try to go either in like May also much more friendly then. Which is great So it just makes for a whole like nicer and more the one euro per hour rule. This is a little rule it's more like a guideline. For me to check if I'm the price. So with entertainment, let's say you for Spotify. Then I want to make sure that I'm much lower than that, then I will probably cancel things like Netflix. If you're paying 12 a month two or three hours a month, then I would say it's water with me. Recently, the prices of restaurants it's kind of crossed the threshold to where I Unless it is like a really special experience, make myself. So we have drastically cut our going and water with us when we go out. We'll just sit I feel like I really need to pee, or I need like cafe and just order a cup of tea or something. this saves us like 40 euros every time. Number 37: usually we will skip the starters and the of money on your bill. And also, I find that the I also like that I'm not feeling like overly no juices, smoothies or cocktails. Something else cocktails, or in our case mocktails. Because these easily go for like eight euros now. And mocktails drinks, and you just get tea or something, that's auditing streaming services regularly. Regularly We audit our streaming services frequently. And there anymore, we will cancel it. And if there's watch, or like the next season of something that services for a month or two, watch what we want family plans. Another great way to save some that you are using offer family plans. For example And it's pretty significant savings every month. see if they offer something. For example, we get a plan as our phone. Number 41: watching movies the cinema or the theaters, definitely go for it. personally, I don't really like the theaters. I too much going on. So I usually wait until the them through some kind of like home cinema app buying video games on sale. My partner and I love full price. And the way that we play video a PlayStation Plus subscription, that we always are so many amazing free games that you can play the Mass Effect Trilogy and now we are playing is if we know that we only want to play the game can sell it back to the same store after we are get around like half of what we paid for it back the next game, that we can also sell back to the for food and groceries. First thing is that we the home, with our weekly groceries. And this is doing that. And I still absolutely love it, I can it does save us a bit of money every time we go snacks are usually a bit more expensive than the think this saves us around 15 to 20 euros a week. always be more expensive. It really depends alternatives to like normal foods tend to be a bit like you know, fruits and veggies, and beans and are not. So skipping the junk food and the snacks Something else we do to try and prevent food waste if that means that we can keep them fresh longer. And it only stays like that for like one or two want to throw away stale bread. So we always just defrost like a couple of slices before we We also refrigerate certain things that you are have to, like potatoes and onions and things like they just stay fresh so much longer if I keep them being satisfied with simple budget-friendly our groceries is just by being satisfied with the time. I do like cooking. So maybe like twice a a little bit more elaborate. Like this week we of like a risotto made with orzo. So then I'll do really really simple. I just kind of stopped or 20 ingredients and have all of these like fresh it's nice and it looks nice, but it's also really simple. Number 46: meal planning. A great way to walk to the grocery store here, so we usually plan Because let's say that you have some kind of then you know that the other days you can try the other half. So instead of just going to the we actually plan for it. We make sure that we will then we go shopping. Checking if generic store of a certain product is just better. For example because I just I really prefer those. But with just as good. And especially with things like They usually also just work if you get the of the cost. So if we have a product that we a generic store brand version, we will always it's just as good. And we can just buy that one. And if you're the type of person who likes to and try out different things, like me, then just get everything on the list, plus two items. So if allowed to get two of those two, like different make sure you eat before you go grocery shopping. all of this is just going to fly out the window. depends on your lifestyle. Maybe for you, like the we tend to go for things that are not like 500 grams of string beans here go for 1,69. cost to 2,29. So for 500 grams that would come buying tempeh that is already marinated, marinate it ourselves. Which is a lot cheaper. it really helps if you can make sure that your Because if they are, then you'll be less will need less groceries overall. We always try lots of vegetables for the fiber, And using you brown rice instead of white rice, things full for much longer. Another really helpful thing is to eat them without distractions, and really actually feel up to 50% percent more full after eating it like in front of the TV or being on distractions. Definitely share in the comments, some money. Maybe something I haven't mentioned in down below. And as always: questions, comments, and I will see you all again next week. Bye bye. or chicory coffee? It is a drink made from completely natural and caffeine free. We've been