I'd say between $80,000 and $100,000. That's a superb diamond canary yellow. It's not just any yellow, that one. It's a very rare stone. This kind of stone often comes We buy Russian diamonds. We buy African diamonds. We buy a few South American diamonds, In Russia, they're very white. It's a big advantage. When they're white, they're very white. The yellow ones usually lose value, they can be more valuable The value varies from If you have a stone of 28 carats, So we should try not to drop it. Right. The slightest tip would be very expensive. Oops. For sure. Someone said to me, Go to Antwerp. You'll see diamond globalization. Antwerp is today Seventy percent of the planet's The market is essentially restricted with 1500 companies and 35,000 people. The area's historic diamond workers, the Jews, Chinese, Russian, and above all, Indians, increasingly present Wars in Africa have seriously and led to various Here, it's a clean business under control. One major diamond group. The diamonds arrive rough. They're sent away to be cut Roby runs the group with his brothers. He specializes in small stones, My father died in 69. He had four children, four boys, Now there's a second generation, because my brother's children have come It's a family affair. In the early 1950s, the family was in Beirut on the trade route of diamonds Roby's father bought some That's how the business began, but life for Jews in In 1958, the family settled in Antwerp. Roby was just two years old. We were traders, as they say, We were trading in the buying We weren't manufacturing. We got supplies from other manufacturers, After more than 30 years in the business, Roby is a privileged witness to When a cutter looked at a rough stone, Today, there are these 3D machines It's much more technical today. There are still about Back then there were many more. They talked about 3000 to 5000 cutters as it's called, the Campine. Thanks to their cutting-edge technology, certain companies have resisted the trend to delocalize the diamond-cutting but they deal essentially in large stones where the cost of manpower The key is to lose as little The average is between Here they limit it to forty percent. With ultrafast, vibration-free polishing science is an art or vice versa. The big plus is being able to simulate what can be done with a diamond Here they have their A girl's best friends, but not necessarily a big rock. Roby's customers major gem dealers, The market covers every sector. The bulk of the market is still jewelers. The mass market is jewelry stores. Be it high quality, standard quality, Today you have big names like the Place Vendome Their turnover is jewelry. The big retail chains in France, sell jewelry, your basic jewelry business. Low-quality jewelry Even with one stone or two stones, but they're very cheap. They may sell for EUR49 or EUR50, very cheap, When they buy rough diamonds here, they're not for manufacturing They're for reselling. A new shipment has just arrived. Is that rough? This is rough. It comes out of the mine like this. There's everything in there. There are white stones, There are nice stones and bad stones, These are two stones per carat. These are 12 or 13 stones These are smaller. There's about $1 million worth -More or less? Do you know how -Not exactly. We've estimated the value based on Just over $1 million. Of course, we sell them We're not doing this I've left a stone there. Finders keepers. The diamond market is high-risk. The merchandise is expensive, Today, the buyers are Hasidic Jews the world's cutting capital. Now markets go down -It's not possible. I cannot replace it again, Just to get the to get a good price, If my client buys this, -No problem. I don't say buy one to pass. I'm asking you. Where are you? I see because my clients say around $60. I can offer $60. I do offer to the client. At $60, I cannot take your offer. I don't give offers around $60. I don't say $60. I don't think I'm asking a price I hope they want to let The originals you saw in the bags, once they're sorted, we have merchandise The brand merchandise, The white merchandise which are naturally worth still more, and other white merchandise Worth more again? Worth more again. There are other models to be sawn, but which are generally for our manufacturing requirements. We mainly concentrate the markets where So there's an average price? This is merchandise and this is merchandise so we present an average price, After that, we'll see if This megalopolis of 20 million souls the financial capital of the world's In these suitcases, India has today dealing with more than The cutting takes place but the business center is here in Mumbai. Here, it's only trading. All the shipments of rough diamonds come from Belgium, Africa, They come here. They are processed here and then shipped everything Then everything from Surat is shipped again to Bombay either sold to the local markets All the international clients Everybody who lands they will have to come here. Bablu runs the Tache office in Mumbai, a sales center, He's 41 years old and has been in My father moved me and my brother Then my brother moved to America I did not study. I started to work with my father Then I moved. I stayed here for a few years, Then from America, I went to Hong Kong. Then I stayed in Bangkok In Belgium, I stayed for 14 years. Like in Antwerp, the diamond merchants like Antwerp or almost. These are all small traders or brokers It's all full of those people. If you put together all the values, they still take. A few million dollars a week They do not have any expenses. Everything is done with There is no really a computer. There is no really authentic invoice Everything is on word They trust each other. -Hello. How are you? I'm looking for a seven-carat stone. -What type? JIXX. Yes, I have that but not here, in Antwerp. I'm listening. 912116100, Manuj. -Manuj? Okay. We met at Vinet's. Who? At Vinet's house. Right, I remember. Okay. No problem. -Show the diamonds. It's a good business. Yes, but there are too many people. Do you see the business Business is done in the street Although, the term &quot;Office&quot; is relative. They are friends. I'm just doing trading over here, in small trading offices, There is like a There is one behind you. There's one here behind you, There is one here. There is one here on this side In this space, there are six of them. This small place is $500 a month. I am a broker. You buy? Only brokerage. It means? Someone buys, and someone sells. I am only the commission, a big commission. Do you think they have a good business? They survive. They live far away. They make their monthly expenses. They are raising their children. They have a decent family and decent job. This is kind of a small office. He can make at least $100,000 a month Over there, even if he makes it's good enough money for him. To live here in India also is a lot of money. I still love this business. You get to deal with the elite Not many businesses are involved in both directions In India with a billion inhabitants, largely due to marriage culture, It's like a father From that day, he starts thinking He works for the time. He works to save some money the jewelry that He spends his lifetime preparing himself, a good wedding, reception dinner It's part of the culture that we have. It's dawn at Mumbai Central station. The beginning of the monsoon season With Bablu back at work, Like a fish in water he too started at an early age. Trained in Situ, for whom he is now acting In Mumbai, as an Antwerp, I leave Mumbai for the world's in the state of Gujarat. Why here? Labor is abundant and cheap, and the local government through various measures. Industry is vital in a country by monsoon rains Unbelievable as it sounds, there are 2000 diamond-cutting This is one of them, Before 15 years ago, Just now, we are using certain or very, making a window To see the diamond inside, Before, it was only thinner. Then the second generation is here, and now the third generation is here. It is fully automatic. If you can come in two, or three days, Modernization is done gradually, but nothing is ever thrown out especially for small-scale operations. Our next visit is one of Surat's It's clean and air-conditioned. Worker's overalls are replaced The atmosphere is American Proof that the Indian cutters about a market won by cheap labor. Technology is also used I'm shown a diamond There are two stones, A cutter hoping to make a profit with a waste of a lesser diamond. It happens, but here the guilty party A barcode accompanies each stone. But according to Rahul, such ploys are not worth it. If any one of them steals a diamond, instantly, almost instantly Mr. So-and-so, he was caught All the diamond manufacturers and this guy can never get a job That is too big of a risk He adds that people are well-paid here, which limits temptations, $800 to $1000 I'd like to believe him, but what about the cheap labor In the heart of the world's diamond cutting We've had this discussion He has this dream to see Surat becoming the largest trading center also, along with being the largest So yes, definitely, becoming the next The reality of Surat is far removed from the antiseptic world of Venus Witness the switch market. It is here, Mehul tells me, that one can find Can I see those? -Good diamonds? Yes. You're being filmed with me. No, polished, Why? Because it is the... With pieces of diamond switched 2000 suppliers, and 10,000 people a day, it's a market for tolerated theft Of course, there are and we're a long way that regulate the diamond being infected by African blood diamonds. -$70, is that it? $70? He is selling them for $70? $77. Hang on, I'll calculate it. On a basis of 45, Come on. Name your price. Mehul doesn't buy anything, and not because If you don't personally know but he's seen what he wants and Where the stones are coming from? I cannot answer that, Some people are genuine traders. Some people buy from the factories Some as you know, I can't say too much. Otherwise, we're in trouble. Later, I'm told that everything No doubt, some war diamonds, everything that defies This man works in a whole other world. Every month he visits The syndicate, and we call them the syndicate because they control eighty percent They're going to present the merchandise We're going to see and what the prices are like Jacky represents his family For some 200 years, from its South African mines. It now faces stiff competition, but remains the world's leading of rough diamonds per year. Its prestigious position enables it to De Beers London is still the inner sanctum Not everyone can become a buyer here. Personal relations but today De Beers has become and candidates are selected on merit. There were 150 before. Today barely 80. We have to put them in order, obviously. Everything's a bit mixed There. So we have the whole range, in fact, So, I'm going to stop. Hello. Yes, Elaine. Fine. Are you ready for the sight? The sights or sight The family is authorized by De Beers to buy in South Africa, Namibia, As a site to take place simultaneously, No, they were a bit under 1700. Yes below 1700. They've gone up to 1732. Okay, well, get at least half a box full, and then concentrate in the five to 10s A site sale involves an entire day By evaluating what potential one can estimate a sale price This stone is worth about $50,000 and it'll give two stones, which would hope to sell together If we look at this lot here, the big stones that are here, It's a collection worth $1 million, and we have to decide It's impossible to say if It's only at the end of the day what's good and what's too expensive. One age-old rule imposed The prices are non-negotiable, but in recent years, Previously, refusing a site but today, a small amount can be rejected, Everything that's been presented today, which means what we ask for in advance is in these sachets here. These boxes, there's about $10 million on the table. In 2008, the sites The De Beers authorized buyers The system ensures a regular supply. They can plan their production schedules who also benefit The De Beers company has a rosy future and has successfully stabilized Who said that capitalism The supply of rough diamonds is the key. Even during times of crisis, the intermediaries Keeping the cutting works is the vocation of this office in Antwerp. We have to be careful Which could complicate things? If there's tension in the stone, an inclusion inside that can spread What happens when a stone splits? We cry. There's nothing to be done. -Can you make two stones? but generally There can't be many broken stones. Raymond's turnover He, too, is an authorized De Beers buyer, Raymond is in charge A huge diamond-cutting concern Smolensk, the 300,000 inhabitants, but like everywhere in Russia, The diamond factory with 3500 jobs, but why here? It was a state decision The stones are brought here Workers arrive at the crystal factory. A globe indicates the firm's presence They want their share of the global market Soviet-style frescoes suggest. Crystal is just a dream. It's very interesting. I'm lucky. Some families, mothers, have been working here for a long time. It's very interesting. Alla is 24. She works on the internal magazine a marriage of heavy machinery What does your work consist of? I study the diamond's internal structure So I determine the value of the diamond either for industry or jewelry. Are these the stones No. We work with stones but these are only 340, a lesser caliber. And usually? Usually, they're between 5 and 10. -They're usually bigger. The rule here is generally So, I was surprised and a cutter who was complaining of the stones he was working on. Everything is going downhill. We typically receive diamonds with We can say that the stones of three carats Do you see this stone? To make a comparison, a little ten-kilo package 35 years. I've been working here for 35 years It's like starting all over again. His story symbolizes the history as told me later off the record. Previously, a state mining company supplied crystal The interests of the seller relations between Crystal and Alrosa, Even worse, like its competitors, to the Russian Finance Ministry. Diamonds from the world's no longer come to Smolensk. Rather than providing jobs here, the Russian dream now is perhaps to become the world's We head for the headquarters of Alrosa, which extracts twenty percent worth $6 billion every year. Months of bureaucratic muddling both here and at the mine that makes Mirny, one of the biggest mines The crisis here has led to social unrest Its leader was arrested and imprisoned The Russian authorities Our second Moscow visit is to the Gokhran, the Finance Ministry's diamond Here, too, it's forbidden to film. Here lie the stocks that the state 3 billion, $6 billion or more, for prices to rise before With official doors being closed, I decided to go and see from our Alrosa's During the nineties, that set up diamond-cutting works. We created 16 such companies in Yakutia. After that, I went to work in Moscow It was at that time The jewelry business in Russia, Very difficult and very expensive. Svetlana is Yakut and certainly looks it. She has a store called Yakut Diamonds Her marketing technique is original. Customers shoe the diamond In Russia, the customs duties To pay less taxes, I only buy from quite cheaply, $200 or $300. The diamonds cost between As I pay the official taxes after the assembly, I have a final product With her Yakut roots and good relations she was an executive there, Svetlana is doing burdened by taxes Ninety-nine percent of my diamonds There are other small companies but they produce Alrosa is a monster. Svetlana deals She knows people and gets her supplies The Russian state makes no attempts to favor a domestic market on the international market, A few blocks away, we see This former state store from Soviet days has been revamped and now belongs The managing director is Sergei, a 50-something with a degree The cost of the ring is 3.35 million rubles. It means more than $100,000. I asked him if it was possible in a completely legal manner. If you don't import anything, it is. It is possible. -If you import? -Impossible? I think so, maybe I'm wrong. The system is not transparent. That evening, I was told a well-known chain of jewelers All its managers have just been for fraud and smuggling. The next day, Svetlana is presenting She comments on the Altan affair. What's happened with Altan Everyone knew they were smuggling. There are many similar cases in Moscow. I've come across this kind The Secret Service came to check on me, It cost me a lot of money in bribes. But it was all sorted out. In Russia, there are a lot of people It's impossible to respect it Our laws are badly made. -Do you have any silver jewelry? -Tigers here. Next year is the year of the tiger, madam, so it's very important There are brooches and bracelets. Can you handle this? Connoisseurs know that and all Russian diamonds Our diamonds They are pure. Do you know why they are pure? It's because the layer of frozen earth It applied great pressure As diamonds are formed very slowly, the pressure meant One young jeweler He imports jewelry using African diamonds We had a perfect diamond Now, Russia is trying to maintain It's just like a Russian vodka. Well, Finland vodka but it's the stereotype of the people that the Russian vodka Alrosa, of course, are the best diamonds in the world. We prefer to use African diamonds. So we head for Africa to Botswana, a democracy with a fifty-fifty deal with De Beers with the priority set on profits 200 km and soon a clean diamond mine far removed from a sanctuary in a continent where diamonds are often Jwaneng, my quest I'm about to discover It represents ten percent fifty percent of Botswana's Everything starts with the mining. Like in Siberia, explosive charges blow up the kimberlite, the semi-decomposed volcanic rock Since mining began here in 1982, successive explosions The whole operation is by mining engineers A graduate of Botswana University, Like most people here, almost $2,000 a month. Down below is the kimberlite. Are the drivers aware The trucks dump their loads. The crushing is the first step in the process of separating It's always going on We never stop our operation, every day for 24 hours, all year round, until the end of the life of the mine. De Beers has always worked With this infernal rate, It's very important to continue Currently, we are planning to carry our mining Then that's when we can think of going or else we can find another plan of expanding the pit It will depend Further along, it's as if a huge factory The 3000 mine employees They work shifts around the clock, and the treatment network At the end of the process The final separation of the diamonds Secrets are well-kept here. Only the official archives keep records. Like a pipeline running through a desert, The crushed rubble shines if I might find diamonds Diamond should be captured Whatever comes here should be free If I go there, maybe if I am lucky, I will find a small diamond. -No? If you are so lucky that when a diamond was missed and by chance you are standing there and you pick it, yes. It would be one in a million times, It's not something It shouldn't happen that way anyway we've got so many other we don't lose the diamonds. If there were diamonds, as a metallurgist, I would lose my job Diamonds here served to provide work After the miners, De Beers commercializes the products and the state takes Diamonds represent and seventy percent but there is no market here. Botswana's diamonds They're heading elsewhere, for example, to this middle-class where De Beers has opened a store, the secrets of a glittering diamond Diamonds are becoming But it's perhaps the end of a dream.