-This isn't your land. -Don't touch him. I forbid you to touch my sheep. It all started with mysterious images posted online [Arabic spoken audio] Go right ahead, smash my camera. Don't use the camera. I'll break your camera, Images of a minuscule war. We're used to seeing so nobody noticed Who are these people Why are the Israeli soldiers It's like knowingly letting children We recognize that a Palestinian State to be viable, to be independent, We'll be generous about the size This is a land In the field, linked to the most nationalist right wing. The Palestinian State, and the Palestinian identity do not exist. They never existed. They want us to leave, It's a new type of war. Meter by meter, step by step. A silent war, for the time being, at any rate. Hebron is the largest Palestinian city, or rather, it is almost Palestinian. This side of town is under the control There are traffic jams and lots of colors. There's no doubt about it, Right in the middle of one street Crossing it The Palestinians call it the Ghost Town. The shops here have been closed down The street looks empty. It's not. A group of Jewish settlers live here, There are also a few Palestinians [Arabic spoken audio] We have just entered Israeli territory. Life is not easy for the Palestinians in the Settlers Street. Moving around, shopping, Issa lives here. He's a Palestinian activist and the settlers Issa does not respect the rules Turn to face the wall. You don't have the right. I do, turn to face the wall. Put that down right now. In 2012, he was arrested 20 times Issa has understood one thing, that in the war of images, Let me show you. The line is here. I'm allowed to be here, What if you cross this line? I was arrested last time five meters from here. It's only to make the settlers nothing more. There's not a single shop To go and buy his bread, Issa has to cross the border In the old city of Hebron, the urban planning seems Never far behind Issa Personally, I don't walk without a camera. I see that the camera is my weapon. I feel safer. It's feeling too, not just filming. In this market street, but just beyond the pistachio stall, Careful, he's a bad one. The other roller gate again. Okay, thanks, -I can't cross from here. It's because I am Palestinian. -No Palestinian can cross? After another barrier the zone reserved for Muslims Before letting us through, Issa makes things difficult for him. Where do you want to go? Just to visit him, -Are they Muslim? What religion are they? They don't believe in God. -No God? -Can we go? Suddenly, the soldier changes his mind. Are you calling me? Passport. -You can go. Listen, I don't have time, If you go, I'll arrest you. You'll arrest me? I say you stay here. -You're allowed to leave, but I'm not? It's only in Israel -Why do I have to wait? Is it because you said so? -I'm a soldier. He wants me to wait. -Now? I don't know if it helps, He was very helpful to us, He did nothing wrong. I don't know. You know, you see him, Give me my ID, Check it, what are you doing? No, what are you doing, checking? Call. It takes two minutes. It only takes two minutes. I am the one who knows. Don't give him my ID, He's smart and better than you, -What did you say? [Hebrew spoken audio] For the sixth time in 2013, Yehuda has arrested dozens For two years from 2004, Since then, he has founded an organization called Breaking the Silence. To create the feeling of being persecuted. That's the military language. Your orders were not Of course, yes. -They were? The concept in the military says this. If Palestinians get the feeling they'll be afraid to attack. To make them feel this way, The idea is very simple. Every Palestinian must feel The Israeli police station of the Palestinian mosque of Hebron, a mosque built on a sacred Jewish cave. The two religions share the building. However, for 20 years, the Israeli military has imposed between Jews and Arabs. The whole story, is based on segregation. In a way, when you come to Hebron, the most important question is how Hebron became a ghost town. How do you protect 850 settlers living in the city center The answer from the Israeli military is that you create sterile buffer zones That's the military term, sterile zones. It all started after the massacre at the Tomb of the Patriarchs in 1994. In 1994, a far-right Jewish settler, entered the mosque He killed 29 Arabs The murderer was called Baruch Goldstein. He belonged to a national After the killing, the Israeli government However, one of its former leaders, Baruch Marzel, He's still very active. He's even a high-profile figure. Negotiating a meeting with him However, when Marzel arrives, he sees us talking with Yehuda, You don't know who he is, That's enough. If he has a point of view, There were a million soldiers, why him? Is it because he beat up Arabs Is it because he gets paid -For you, it's enough. -I knew before... It won't be balanced, Is it balanced with him? Balance it You need over 1,000 people to balance it. Do you have that? He's nothing. What is he saying? -Take the Arabs. Take Hamas, take the PLO, Would you agree Yes, because they're on our side here. Just next door, inside the police station. The Palestinian Issa International observers arrive. Can you film Their mission is to record incidents the Palestinians, and the army. Something like this, He's been screaming now inside. He's been screaming. You must see yourself. We can't say anything What is he saying? The thing is that we have signs, that we're not allowed However, I can tell you He's not being beaten up, right? I cannot answer that question. Is it possible for me It's confidential. We only send it to both sides, However, Issa's friends have filmed everything. They're already posting My experience in the occupied territories led me to start asking questions It doesn't take much You just need to be a bit... Ten percent honest to start wondering Three hundred meters away, just opposite Issa's house, housed in a building constructed in the 19th century. The Israelis who live there as opposed to a colony, and their spokesperson For you, any Arab passing No, no. It's not so for me. It's the decision of the army. If people come to shop, to buy, it means thousands of people a day. Amongst thousands of people, you just need to have one terrorist. One. They decided to recognize which means the Jews are closed We are not allowed Arabs can live in the street, but Arabs from all over the town During the night, Issa was released. We meet up with him the next day He explained to us why he was shouting. The first moment one of them hit me and the other hit me on my neck here. It was obvious that he was detaining me to show that he's stronger You could have shut up Why didn't you do that? Usually, I don't shut up. It's about me, Issa, It's about my dignity, I will feel like I'm nothing. I don't want to feel that. I'm protecting myself from inside too. Haven't you ever been tempted I have never, I feel that the camera This was our first discovery. A new generation of Palestinian activists who prefer the war of images This is the memory card, understand? [Arabic spoken audio] This new generation prefers to practice than firing a Kalashnikov Every day they document a war the world does not see. The idea was born in Hebron, in what's known as the Cage House. [Hebrew spoken audio] The Cage House is inhabited They live behind the fence, just opposite the Israeli colony. The heart of the home It records any incidents Today, nothing has happened, For years, the Abou Aishas without being able to defend themselves. I put up fencing One day, I answered: &quot;but if you want to sell The arrival of these two cameras and perhaps the history of Palestine. -Where are the cameras from? What's B'Tselem? They're Jews who fight for peace. The pacifist organization B'Tselem to Palestinians The images came as a surprise The project started in late 2006, Realizing that with being under constant harassment, assault, and attacks and that the police were simply he basically Amazing footage depicting quite shocking scenes. [Hebrew spoken audio] Spit on him. The first clip was the Sharmuta clip. It's a clip depicting a woman harassing, swearing, Again, very, very close by, -You whore. Get lost. I think this video, really shocked many Israelis and raised awareness that occur in Hebron. You whore. Indeed, they came as such a shock that the then Israeli Prime Minister of the Cage House. You'd better not open the door! Soldier, did you see that? It's true, the minister apologized, Why don't they ask the soldiers I'll get rid of you. Get lost and don't film me! The images from the various of shocking discrimination When the settlers' kids take it out why does the Israeli army do nothing? I went throughout my service with the feeling It's not the settlers, but the fact that my orders when the settlers attack Palestinians As a soldier serving in Hebron, you see a settler our orders are not to intervene. We're here to protect the settlers. Come here! Palestinian kids get different treatment. Film, film! In July 2013, a five-year-old child He hit the tire. The Israeli army arrested him. The army also went to the child's house -Come on, get in! Silence! An Israeli officer had to intervene before the soldiers and blindfold they had put on the father. Filming in the West Bank Even as a Palestinian, you're allowed to film Sometimes the camera becomes the target. In the Southern Hebron Hills very often the first thing they take is the camera because they would like [Arabic spoken audio] Go right ahead, smash my camera! It's not the soldiers it's the settlers. They create problems for the Palestinians. My sister wanted to visit me but a woman from the settlement They control the army. If the army protecting them Who provided them with the army? It's time to leave. The Palestinian who is accompanying us asks for permission The road is shorter. The Israeli soldier Apparently, but not so the settlers. He doesn't live here, -He's forbidden to pass. No, no, no! We'll be happy to show you You've come here to cause provocation. To bring an Arab who could be a terrorist, You are supporting terrorism. Why am I supporting terrorism? These are terrorists they come here to kill us, You should ask yourself why you do it. You are lying to yourself. Can you explain to me why? If you film me, I'll break your camera. Move back and don't provoke him. -Where do you want me to go? Go over there. Try to live around people and then say: &quot;Don't be careful of them.&quot; Don't take a picture of me. I accept that you take a picture of me. I have no problem with that, You cheated me, you cheated the people. I'm not hating Arabs, I can't trust them. This is why he can't walk -Any Arab? You make no exception? No, I can't know which one I can trust I had enough experience with Arabs The Arab that killed my father Fifteen years ago, Tzipi's father was killed in this very street, The Palestinians are temporary. The Jews are the indigenous people here. We have an archeological site where we found dishes from 4,000 years ago inscribed with Hebrew letters, Who is temporary and who is indigenous? When living under the tyranny of ruins, Let's travel back, Originally, Hebron was inhabited They worshiped animal-headed Gods, According to the Bible, They were led by the patriarch Abraham. With them, the single God. When Abraham died which is in the Bible too, This was the very first temple. Throughout history, the Jewish cave The Romans transformed it The Muslims made a mosque out of it and adopted the patriarch Abraham, Abraham and Ibrahim were one, except that according to historians, and was invented for political reasons. In the 16th century, It's probably the only time and it was to last for four centuries. However, that's not the end of the story. In 1917, the British chased the Turks A new period of trouble started. The English The most nationalist Arabs flared up. In 1929, trouble broke out. Police deserted the city of Hebron. Arab extremists Sixty-seven Jews were assassinated. However, 435 of them were also saved who hid them. Following these massacres, They were to come back when the Israeli army in yellow on the map. Israeli soldiers took control of Hebron. A year later, a group of ultra-Orthodox American Jews This was the first settlement in Hebron. For the Jews, they were coming back This place is very holy. It's very historic. It's the beginning the fathers and the mothers For their Palestinian neighbors, it was the beginning We say that the Jews They're allowed and welcome if they want a two-state solution. If they want a one-state solution, He's more privileged than me. They have much more rights than me, I'm not allowed to walk in the street It's about this. [Hebrew spoken audio] I think there is no place like Hebron meets the disgusting There is no place like Hebron of who we are as a people What's the country The problem is that non-Jewish, and must end 46 years ago. That's the problem. We want to see in the rest so we must leave Hebron. At the city exit, At the moment, it is wide open. Palestinian attacks have virtually ceased, Less restrictions, but a complete control. In 20 minutes, It takes one jeep to each village, close the gate The West Bank is a strange zone. It's been under the occupation but it is not part of Israel. The Palestinians who live here They are subject to the decisions Since 1967, Israel has taken total control of increasingly large parts What today remains is in red on the map. These enclaves are surrounded The occupation also features To access their settlements, Palestinian cars have free access to them. On the other hand, Palestinians do not have control Their roads can be blocked This is what happened Their main road is unusable. There's an Israeli settlement A settlement means a barrier and soldiers. Dozens of roads have been sacrificed, but the villagers in Kafr Qaddum, -This is the original road, right? -Can you get close to the gate? Maybe you can. There, on the top of the mountain, They can watch every movement -Are they seeing us now? Every Friday, the inhabitants to smoke out their Israeli neighbors. The settlement across their road and is in the hands of religious radicals. It was founded by a woman who is known as the matriarch of the young She runs a movement of radical settlers as they say. You continue with the other one. -Okay, so now we can start the interview. I am happy to be who came to this area where we live now. We lived in a tiny little tent, then in a tiny shack, We moved step by step For me to live it, I feel to see such a miracle with my own eyes. They are aggressive They're religious, yes, They have no wall and all the Palestinian lands [Arabic spoken audio] Can you tell us more? In between the areas there is a lot of government land. I want to be clear, we do not speak in our movement I'm talking about 2 million dunam, which is about 700,000 acres on which there is a debate. To what government? To me, it's clear. The government in Israel We're talking about these on which we want to settle 3 million Jews. This is the plan of our movement. [Arabic spoken audio] I admit that I was born and grew up under occupation. Maybe I will die under occupation, Is this place suitable for our children? I think not. They say the Jewish neighborhood You can go now You will see it, What will I see? You'll see that... -The road is open? You will not... From what I understood, it's that they cannot use it It's because they didn't want to use it, Of course. We obeyed Daniella We arrived from the north located on the other side We need to go back to the road. We came from here. Why can't we go in? Look, Okay. It's not normal. Manifestly, getting across the road even when you're not Palestinian. We go around the settlement where Palestinians They have built symbolic barricades, which Israeli army bulldozers The Palestinians bombard them We didn't have the ability and we didn't have the weapons that could face the weapons We only have our will. The Israeli army -Take care, take care. It does not fire real bullets. The real danger comes that are thrown at ground level. It's best not to get hit in the head. Did you see this tear gas canister? It was shot directly. It's shot directly. Now it's empty. Calm down, calm down! Today, a Chinese journalist He was shot in his knee directly. The Palestinian people to live in peace in this estate. On the other hand, and in peace Do you have hopes Jews and Arabs will be living together The Arabs cannot live here That's because it's going to be the land It's not going to be Jewish and Arab. It's going to be only Jewish, Can you perceive this is felt as a racist attitude? I think that the hypocrisy of the world I want to see the world before they think Angela Merkel said that the multicultural idea failed, which means racism won. Daniella Weiss does not represent Far from it. The majority of Israelis say Even within certain religious settlements, I see the reality are a small fraction of the population, overwhelming the Arabs I know from personal experience, if your car breaks down, If I felt I was surrounded I wouldn't want to live here. Do you think there's space The Bible talks about other nations There's a phrase, Even the Bible reminds us that we too Taking our painful experience and trying to learn from that within Israel. Rabbi Yakov reasons which, incidentally, Today, we must do all we can to facilitate Britain is a strong supporter but we don't believe that it's right Israelis must recognize is counterproductive and that an independent Palestine with real borders that have to be drawn. In Washington, You always say that you are unhappy, Are you not concerned for the Palestinians That's why I expressed a concern today. We don't accept the legitimacy and we encourage both sides to act in a way In other words, there are consequences if they do unhelpful things, or plans to have consequences, for the Israelis if they do things Is that correct? I want to make sure There's no change in our policy It means that the Palestinian... Even the Israeli prime minister Outside the borders of Israel. We recognize that a Palestinian State to be independent, to be prosperous. The good doctor Netanyahu so what stops him from solving things? Could it be that Mr. Benjamin from under Dr. Netanyahu's feet? In 2010, an Israeli television channel Netanyahu was explaining how he blocked between Israelis and Palestinians. Of course, the moment Benjamin Netanyahu that had suffered a terrorist attack. He wanted to speak freely. Turn that off, otherwise I can't talk. Does he realize Whether he does or he doesn't, I'll tell you to avoid giving back the land Netanyahu picked up on an ambiguity Israel can define the perimeter around the settlements. No one stipulated According to me, like the Valley of Jordan, for example, What will the world say? Let them speak, let them speak. [Hebrew spoken audio] The impact of the Netanyahu method This interpretation of the Oslo Accords over the majority and the number of settlements What kind of state can you build Some Israeli leaders had a model in mind. In Rome, there's a political leader We met the former head Massimo D'Alema. In the 2000s, he took part on the status of Palestine. At the time, the future Israeli prime minister. Sharon let him in on a few secrets. Sharon traveled to Europe. He was received and I received him too. Several years ago, Sharon said to me: &quot;The Palestinians must be given zones&quot; &quot;that are administered by Palestinians&quot; &quot;inside Israeli security,&quot; &quot;and if they want to call that a State, Then in the end, in private, in confidence, he said: &quot;Something like the Bantustans.&quot; Did Sharon say the word &quot;Bantustan&quot;? Yes, but not in an official way. Bantustan is a strange word. The concept was created back when the whites To avoid being criticized, for the African people. I don't like the look of their spears. It's all right, they think we're Gods. I hope the Twala does. Get up, if he thinks we're afraid, The Bantustans were territories in which the various African tribes but amongst themselves, Reservations disguised as nations. Is Palestine a Bantustan? In any case, In Ramallah, the administrative capital buildings have grown skywards. This rather empty mini Dubai looks like a capital The city is surrounded by military zones There are now over 350,000 settlers. They cost the Israeli state Every day, They are referred to as outposts. The illegal settlers running water, electricity, If the government wanted that's exactly the way it would do it. Five years ago, Gadniel brought his family Initially, and now he's building a concrete one. Officially, he does not strictly but he's not that bothered about it. We wanted to come to a place where we would be pioneers. We love the place and the view. We're building We're building it slowly, slowly. Everyone is building. New people are moving into these houses, -Is it difficult to get legalization? How does it work? It's processes and... It's a long process but a lot of places have got it. We're on the list. We need to do a lot of things for it, It's true that from these hilltops, A beautiful place to bring up your kids. Is it just for the beauty of the landscape on the heights? -Bye-bye. Traveling around the West Bank, we notice that the settlements It's no coincidence. We discover the plan issued by the political movement Occupying the hilltops a plan with a direct consequence When President Obama the settlers handed him their project. It's no longer a secret. Hello. We have a meeting with Mr. Dayan. Dani Dayan is the world ambassador Formerly a marginal movement, Yesha has now become with three ministers in the government. Tell me why it's important Every morning when I wake up, I have the privilege the comfortable life in Tel Aviv. It's either me and my family or a Palestinian Islamic that will use these very hills as a launching pad to destroy Israel. It's like a war, against, you say, radical Palestinians, but the Palestinians on the ground No, it's not that. We have a conflict. We have a conflict that, right now, unfortunately, does not have a political solution. We didn't advance even one centimeter. Something is wrong with that. Do you think for the fact that you didn't advance, that you made it even more difficult -Not at all, not at all. In the brochure, where it becomes clear that another state... Yes, but the obstacle to peace The obstacle to peace is the fact that the Palestinians in the sense as we understand it, a Jewish state We have to understand that, at least until something happens, What does the war We took the road back to the east Just 20 kilometers away, The road is Israeli territory. The hills all around They are also Israeli territory. Around the Arab village, just a few hundred meters a zone contested on a daily basis. Abou Morsi We're suffocating here. We can't stand it anymore. Before, when I was out with my sheep, There was a spring there. I'd bring my animals to drink every day. That's over now. Israel has surrounded the village. We can't build anything now, In Burin, the main resource Here they used sulfur This tree and this tree, According to the Palestinians, the settlers came down It all took place [Arabic spoken audio] Come here, you bastards! You bastards! That's my land, the land I cultivate. They turn up here, and try to get rid of us. The soldiers protect the settlers. Today, Abou Morsi, probably the most stubborn Palestinian is taking us with him He has promised us some action. First, he has to find his flock. Look over there. They burnt the pastures The settlers arrived and burnt it all. They were with the soldiers. Where are you? I'm with journalists. Abou Morsi has found his sheep. He takes them to graze I'll be here every day of the year. I used to have 150 sheep. I've kept a few, not because it's profitable, Sure enough, the soldiers arrive. At the same time, the Palestinian cameraman Each to his own weapons. Don't film me. See that plot over there? Do you mean that plot? It's forbidden to approach this line. Forbidden? It's a free zone. I'm not discussing that again, I'm just asking you so there are no problems If we move away from here, Everything's burnt. I'm asking you to get off the terrace. Come on, let's go down. There's no grazing over there. Come on, Abou Morsi, come down. They also said that they came here Is it true? They're liars. They come to hit us! They were there when the settlers They're liars. They're behaving because you're here. Otherwise, they'd throw me off the land. How come you speak Hebrew? It's from having problems with them. I've ended up learning Hebrew. Every day, I swear. I can't stand the sight of them anymore. The war of the sheep Do sheep symbolize Is there a sign we might have missed? Why such a warlike application -It's not your land. Don't touch him! You watch out! I forbid you to touch my sheep. What did you say? Leave him. The settler lives south of Hebron. I'll be back and I'll get you. This is Palestinian land. You wait, I'll be back. In the Holy Land, miracles do happen, and the head of the Otniel settlement Technically, How do you do that, How is it possible? They come every day. They demand ownership titles, and after a while, then another tent, and he ends up living on the land, They develop, In fact, on all the territories and where we want to build, they build prefabs or houses and end up living in them. Apparently, they don't want to leave. They want to stay, Is it something that the Bible sees? That's not possible, it's impossible. Do they have to leave? Yes, or live in peace. In Burin, one house Hannah's house. It's an isolated dwelling very close Hannah, a Palestinian widow, Hannah's husband died of a heart attack The settlers throw stones at us all the time. They try to destroy the house, but we stop them. They set fire to the house, and as a result, my husband died. They've stolen the herd They do it so we'll leave, but we resist. Hannah has kept the traces [Arabic spoken audio] Come here, you bastards. You bastards. The Israeli army has judged to be sufficiently dangerous Living here in the middle are you sometimes No, we'll never leave. We'll never give up. Yitzhar is the only West Bank settlement in which Israeli police for incitement of racial hatred. In 2012, certain Yitzhar settlers from a neighboring village. A B'Tselem cameraman captured the scene. [Arabic spoken audio] We traveled to Yitzhar known to the radical settlers. It's a necessity to get through security. The settlement spans several hills. The majority of houses Land use density is low. Our car has been spotted by security. It's made clear to us On the other side of the valley It is just as closed as Yitzhar. We have more luck It's a religious settlement, We're welcomed by their spokesperson, -We were commanded to come here... He is not overly concerned Our positive goals are not just to have... He moved up here to be closer to heaven. We want the entire world to be at peace, We want the entire world to know and that's our job, Of course, that includes the people That includes the Arabs, from all over the world. That's our goal. What are you going to do with your Arab neighbors There is an idea in the Torah, it's called &quot;ger toshav,&quot; That's the definition of any non-Jew Like foreign people? -What do you mean by foreign? Like I said, On one hand, it's a resident, You see on the internet and sometimes settlers burning and destroying trees. I was wondering, I'm sure there is some kind of logic. Look, if there is logic, I don't as it doesn't serve It just gives us bad media and we're against it. Nobody here in my community It's interesting, the police, the army, All the leftist organizations that we're destroying their trees, It sounds a little strange to me. Fundamentalist settlements We tend to forget it, but the first settlements were founded who were fleeing They came to found utopian Some even harbored the rather wild dream of helping the Arabs break free It didn't last long. Today, the utopian revolutionaries whose only horizon is the Bible. Anybody who believes sees that God promised the land of Israel to Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, The Bible is a great book, but sometimes we see things like the sea opening up Sometimes you think to give people some laws and strength, and that applying it now We believe differently. We believe everything Even the sea opening? Of course, the sea opening was one of the highlights At the Red Sea, God split the sea, When the Egyptians came running after us, -Yes, I saw the movie. -I saw the movie. That's not just a fairy tale. For us, this is the truth, this is it. We're talking about the Word of God here, He knows exactly what he's doing. You know the feeling I have when I meet people like you who are very religious, is that you live in an abstract world, It's the world of the Bible, However, the reality on the ground and difficult to face. -Don't you want to see it? Don't get me wrong, we're very realistic, but we don't focus on the ugly parts, For a long time, the religious settlers What's new is that today They hold three major ministries. The Minister for Housing Even if he has not yet managed he doesn't hide them either. Our feeling is that Is that what you wanted when you launched Certain people propose I say that Israel runs That's all. It's no longer a time to share anything. What's more, we can expect total calm in the region. If I've understood correctly, you're proposing to annex and transform everything into Israel? The territories are ours. Hebron is ours. Jerusalem is ours. It's all ours. It was written more than 3,000 years ago. We return to Hebron, and we come across a scene that could foreshadow In the heart of the old Arab city, which is, in theory, we discover the Israeli army. -Issa is there. I'm good, it's better to take it away, Okay. Israeli soldiers have left the Jewish zone On account of a Jewish festival, they have obliged dozens They're keeping the crowd at bay. They announced two days ago that this road is closed to let the settlers visit one of the towns The Jewish tomb is located 300 meters away For your safety, stay on that side. We find their spokesperson in the settlement zone. If they want to claim for justice for all, However, let's open all for all. Seen from the Arab side, they do not have control over their city. The Palestinian Authority, should they be more clever, would offer Do you think the Palestinian authorities to protect the settlers Until now, we haven't seen On the contrary, all the attacks Jews, Christians, and Muslims are allowed. We talk about equality in our state and country, this is the point. According to the settlers, that's not a situation The whole city without any Palestinian Authority Now it will be open to all. It will be secure, open, You're just asking for Hebron Yes, and I'll tell you something. I'm sure most of the Arabs in Hebron, if you ask them quietly, they will be happy about it. Most of the Arabs, I speak to them, Most of them. Until 1:00 p.m., Israeli soldiers with sound grenades. Two hours later, the operation is over. The settlers return to their zone. A few stone-throwers have been arrested. For the Israeli army, Two Israeli soldiers flashed You wouldn't come here without your gun. However, it's a short-lived victory. No sooner had the soldiers reached than all the Palestinian anger [Arabic spoken audio] The Israeli soldiers will have to invade What's going on? They repel the youngsters The Israeli positions It is greeted by a strange clamor of joy When they started shooting bullets, Yes, and actually, the Palestinian community We have nothing to lose This means that the Israeli authority Also, we are not allowed to go We are not allowed to go outside this city If you want to go to Jerusalem, you have to apply to get permission -Could you live together? That's impossible for one reason, Imagine that. Why do they clap? It's because they are very angry. They have a... Their feelings are pushing them to do it because they feel so helpless and weak. This is a dangerous area for Palestinians, but they don't care The riots lasted for four days. [Arabic spoken audio] I think the settlers I think blaming the settlers Religious, weird, they all have beards, That's how we in Israel However, The problem is the state, Numerous Palestinians were wounded. One Israeli soldier was killed The former head Yuval Diskin declared: &quot;The immense frustration &quot;as they realize that their land &quot;and that the possibility &quot;is growing more distant.&quot; &quot;All conditions are there [Arabic spoken audio]