Hey, it's Marie Forleo, and you are watching and life you love. My guest today, she's a legend, and she continues joyfully and boldly, and with our hearts wide Elizabeth Gilbert is the number one New York Eat Pray Love, as well as several other internationally She's been a finalist for the National Book and the PEN Hemingway Award. Her new novel, City of Girls is a rollicking, during the 1940s. Liz freaking Gilbert, ooh. Ooh. All we do is make sounds. We don't make words... Exactly. I'm so freaking happy that you're back. I mean, the last time we did this in this Yeah. And a lot has transpired in the world in your Yes. It's a whole different world in every way. It was a whole different world. In every way, okay. Our lives were different, the world was different. Very much so. But anyway, I love you. I've missed you. I love all of our adventures. I'm wearing your earrings. Yeah, so can we talk about that for a minute? Yeah. I think we should just begin with that. Tell us. I'm wearing Jersey Marie's earrings because So, I was like, &quot;Can I borrow some of...&quot; And reached into your box and got the biggest peripheral vision. And you know that the earrings are not the peripheral vision. Yeah, no. Those are Jersey Marie's earrings and they It is so funny. I'm showing Liz some jewelries to pick from, She's like, &quot;Those.&quot; I was like, &quot;You went straight for Jersey I like those ear bangles. Yeah. Give me those. It's the best ever. And I have to congratulate you. So, Liz and I were hanging out talking in of Girls, you guys, this book. You need to get your hands on it. Get your hands on this book for you and your It's phenomenal. Thank you. By the way, Josh is thanking you because he's you just stop reading self-help and personal Can't you just read a novel?&quot; And so when I was reading this, he's like, I'm like, &quot;It's Liz Gilbert's new novel and Oh, thank you so much. What was the inspiration? Talk to us. Okay. This is a novel that is set in the New York It's about showgirls, playboys, actresses, about promiscuous young women who are behaving consequences. Wreaking havoc, creating all sorts of problems. And it's a story I've wanted to tell for a to write a book about promiscuous girls whose And that is a very hard book to find in the Because usually, you get really punished. You step out of line, you get really... you're You get poisoned, you're dead in a gutter, ruined, ruined. It's always stories of girls and women being sexuality. And that has not been my experience and it's that I know. And I also didn't want to write a fake romantic So, I had to kind of figure out how to walk How do I create this story where I have a Stuff happens to her, but she's able to survive and can. The whole idea of a ruined woman is a kind we'd all be ruined. Who among us would still be here if we couldn't and sometimes even terrible punishment? We can survive it. So, that is what the book is about. But where did the idea come from? How long ago did you start feeling in your this needed to be born? I was at my great-aunt's house, god, I want And she handed me some out of print books She's at that age where she's like, &quot;I'm 90, Take everything.&quot; And so every time you leave her house, you've And amongst these books were a collection a guy named Alexander Woollcott, who was a And there were interviews and profiles of because they were theater actresses. They were British and American divas, these And the world that he was talking about just He was going to the Ritz Carlton to have lunch in Lady Macbeth and he's writing this whole what they're drinking. And I was like, &quot;I want to play in that world. I want to go back to New York City Midtown, world and put my promiscuous girls right at to.&quot; And so was this a time period... I'm so curious about the research in this into the story, it's so much fun, you are I'm not blowing smoke up your ass, you are Your writing is impeccable and I just felt it was so glorious. And so I was thinking to myself, &quot;Goodness, period? Or was this, 'Oh, wow, I have this idea, I to do a shit ton of research?'&quot; Shit ton of research. Okay. Yeah. Like four years of research. Wow. And which- Well, it's like everything finding a historian some existing theaters, but more importantly, he could show me what it used to look like. So, we could stand there and we're right in about the theater that used to be in that And it was also reading a ton of novels that the tone of the way that people spoke. Interviews with former showgirls and actresses professional lives and their sex lives, which which was great. And just an immersion, an absolute immersion. It's almost like learning a second language, like learning a new language. So that by the time you write it, you can Really? Okay. So, it sounds like, and tell me if I'm tracking process because I just think pieces of art And we get to enjoy the end product, but I how things get weaved together and how they're So, it sounds like there was idea, you got dove into the pool of research hardcore. Yeah. Did you then start writing the story or did Or was it a blend, where you kind of danced For me, it starts with the location. The first thing is New York City, 1940s, I learn everything about it. As I start researching, the characters come So, I'll get inspired by something that I I'll be like, &quot;Oh, it'd be so cool to have Somebody who's referenced in a letter that from LA and complaining that New York City That kind of guy. Like a dandy, bon vivant. I'm like, &quot;Oh, we could put something like So, it starts to people itself. And then for me, weirdly, the last piece of First, I have the setting, then I have the are those people doing in that setting and And in this case, what I've written is kind book is an answer to a mysterious question gets a letter from we don't know who, from I'm wondering if you'd be comfortable telling And the whole book is her answer of what she know who he is and it takes a long time to But I kind of wanted to tell a mystery story And did you, so again, this is... By the way, y'all, I have to tell you, okay, Sometimes I forget when I'm recording interviews, publishing them. This is coming out very soon. So, you all don't know, but Liz was kind enough book- I read more than a few pages. I know you did. I know, but- it's great. I love you, thank you. My point in bringing this up is that she gave for the love of all things holy, please trust And I was like, &quot;Girl, I am trusting you,&quot; The reason I'm bringing this up is I'm curious there, or if that, it was like, &quot;Whoa, now mystery.&quot; I had that pretty soon. The thing that's interesting, and I don't Of course. But I will say that the entire book is an you to my father?&quot; That somebody's written a letter. And I myself did not know that answer until And I was like, &quot;Well, I need to find out I actually don't know.&quot; And I was willing for it to be anything, but and to let the two characters themselves show And I was surprised myself by the answer to And it's so sexy. Well, thank you. Like, woo. I'm in bed reading this and I was like, &quot;When Because again, I am such based on what I do about the brain, and I'm... You know what I mean? Spirituality, and all that kind of stuff. And to get lost in a story and then to have And to have it- That's what I wanted it to be. Yes. And to give all of the feels and then to be It's phenomenal. Thank you. And I wanted this book, what I said to my this book to go down like a tray of champagne I want to make it so that you start that first end and you feel like you've been at a party. I want it to have that kind of spirit.&quot; And so I'm just so delighted that people are it. It is. I was like, &quot;Good, that's what I wanted it Yeah. And what's so great, it's when you don't want no, I want to take it slower. No, no, no, I have to savor every page. I know, I have that feeling too. It's the best in the world. So, one of the other things I really appreciated these characters aren't woke. They're all awakening as we all are.&quot; Yes. I thought that... I was like, &quot;Thank you for saying that,&quot; which more space to just dive into this without does this mean in some? Just thank you. Oh, you're welcome. And I love the Me Too movement and I think And this is not a but, this is an and. And. And as important as the conversation is about only word when it comes to female sexuality. There is also such a thing as female desire, Because consent seems to imply that a woman and then a man will come and say, &quot;Can I have And she'll be like, &quot;Yes, yes,&quot; or &quot;No.&quot; Right? And my experience with sexual, my own sexual And there are seasons of a woman's life where that.&quot; And when you see a woman standing in her full laying claim and saying, &quot;That's what I'm I want that and that and that and that.&quot; That's what I wanted to write about in this And I don't want the story of female desire without our desire, we're not fully ourselves. So, this is a book that celebrates female Yeah. It's imperfect and it's beautiful and supporting. And you did so brilliantly. Thank you, honey. There's the... Again, I don't want to give away too much, And just that whole- I've never had more fun writing a scene than It was incredible. All of the mixture of feelings and awkwardness It was so utterly, I'm like, I'm just giving page. Oh, thanks. Thank you. But I wanted to bring that up because I feel which is why this book is so important. Yeah. So, so important. Good. And to have it in such a fun throwback, these One of the things that came with the early this beautiful feather. And as I was reading Liz's book, I had my It's also a time period that I particularly I love the music from the '40s. I love going back to that time in even my And it's just, yeah, so I just, I need to Aww. Thanks, honey. You're welcome. So, I want to shift gears a little bit. There was a quote that you emailed to me when and you quoted Joseph Campbell: "How we moments. Is it going to be a wasteland or is it going I want to talk about the incomparable Rayya past few years. Yeah. You got to meet her, which makes me so happy And I know you said later you were expecting met this vibrant, vivid- Yes. Yeah, yeah. She was amazing. So, Rayya was my best friend, but that word We had a 17 year relationship that started her being the love of my life and me taking cancer. And along that way, she became... we were and artist because she had these incredible on the Lower East Side as a heroin addict And I was always like, &quot;Write your book. Write your book.&quot; And I actually created a space where she could And then we became friends and then we became period of time, and I was married, very happily period of time where there simply was not I couldn't find the right word for what she And I finally just settled on she was my person. And what I meant by that was the most important The first phone call in every emergency. The first phone call in every celebration. The world comes to me for advice, I go to Rayya was my beacon, and she was also, at ever felt completely safe and seen around. And then she got diagnosed with terminal pancreatic And very quickly, on the heels of that diagnosis, I mean, it was so obvious. It was right in front of me, but I had never And very quickly, it became obvious that what And that I had to completely change my entire not bear the idea of, I knew I would be the I knew I would be that one from the day that But the idea of her leaving this earth not her was unacceptable. And so everything had to be changed and we What was the words that Joseph Campbell said, be the Grail Quest?&quot; Exactly. Yeah. It was both. Yeah. It was both. And I think the Grail Quest often takes place I mean, that's where you find the treasure darkest, most harrowing, horrible moments. So, it was the worst thing I've ever had the And I loved, I was sharing earlier, for anyone suggest that you search Elizabeth Gilbert, that you told. So utterly moving and brilliant and funny And it was just... Because I was at my kitchen table at like up cheering and crying all at once. Rayya took up a lot of space in the universe The thing about somebody who's very vivid death. And not just myself, but everyone who knew these kind of Rayya encounters or where they given a message, or they're, that she's so anything. And that's why I think she's remained so present. But I think that people with that much charisma much space, it echoes and it continues. And I don't know whether that's her spirit whether it's the residual echo of how much it and feeling it a year and a half after I want to read, you just have so many words, this. I'm going to quote Liz a lot and I'm just they're so beautiful. &quot;As you might expect, I've experienced knee-buckling loss. But that's not all. In Rayya's absence, somehow, shockingly, Not only does the world still turn, but it To my surprise, I have discovered in the past in Rayya's wake. Laughter can still be found everywhere I turn. Friendship spill over to me in abundance.&quot; And then you go on and you talk about that, this year. I want to talk about that because you and LA. And it was beautiful because you were dancing Where did that notion come from and what impact I picked it up from Rayya's ex-wife, Gigi, friends, who somehow... And was also one of the people taking care And somehow, she communicated this because And you are as well. You know there's something that can be released way. And what she was communicating to me was that bones and pulls you down. And dance is the way of letting energy move because what you want to stay is soft. And so, I just got in the habit, she and I day. But I just take Rayya's playlists and hit And I dance every morning to a song that she And sometimes, I dance to a Leonard Cohen And other times, it's like Lynyrd Skynyrd But it always seems to be the perfect one. And I think that dance is the opposite of There's a great line that the writer Andrew is not happiness, the opposite of depression And dance is a way of actually bringing vitality And grief and depression are not the same I've been depressed in my life. Depression is an inability to feel or refusal It's a shutting down. And grief, when you allow it to live in its that has an element of rejoicing in it. And the rejoicing is to have loved so much you got to love this much. And it's got that energy in it. And so I find that I had expected to be catapulted I was catapulted into grief and it's something We were talking about that over our Italian And I was so- I was so moved and inspired by our conversation You were just sharing so many beautiful things. And I'm like, &quot;I have never heard anyone talk type of emotional reality with so much creativity.&quot; I think it's the greatest creative challenge I think that grieving Rayya has been the single I've taken it as a creative challenge. Look, your whole life is a creative activity. People who say, &quot;I don't have a creative bone choose the person that you married? That was an act of creativity. You had a creative vision of your future when And you came together with them and you two Everything that you decide, everything that you make is creativity. And grieving requires enormous creativity cosmic riddle at the mythical level. What am I supposed to do with this? This is the one person in the world, you heard ever felt safe and seen by and that person That's interesting. What am I now going to do? How am I going to create safety and the feeling Interesting challenge. How am I going to do it? And I'm living into that question every single benevolent universe. And so in my universe, it can't be the story never find it in anything or anywhere else This is the only place it could ever be. That is so unbearably cruel and impossible Because in my world, it's only abundance and And so, I was given Rayya and now I'm given post-Rayya world. And that requires awakeness, an alertness And the thing I keep throwing out there because radical thing that I could say. And I say it almost as a challenge and a prayer that I'm also sitting with is this. There was a life that I could only have with And there is a life that I can only have without And it's a life I could only have without There are things that I could only do without world, I wouldn't do. There are relationships that I can only have There's a whole changed world without her. And I'm equally fascinated by what that one And I think the real sense of creative adventure new one. And say, &quot;I don't know what it is yet, but I'm in. Show me and I'm game.&quot; And I'm willing to believe that it's my destiny as ahead with her. I'm going to go to a Facebook post that you I think sometimes we forget that we are merely of these bodies. We take our lives perhaps too seriously sometimes it's 90 years or nine years, after all, eventually When we forget our essential transience, when all of our choices become so weighty, so significant, But we won't be here forever. So maybe it doesn't really matter as much Maybe you can be a bit lighter about your That being the case, what do you want to do What would be interesting to you? What would bring you enjoyment, or elevation, And what's to be lost, really, in giving We're just passing through life. Might as well check it out a bit while we're I needed to hear that today. It was so funny, because I... Thank you. I was just was going back and forth in my I'm like, &quot;Mm.&quot; I was like, &quot;Yes.&quot; And it's so powerful. Liz, these are your words. "Why don't we check it out a bit while we're Look, I have literally no idea what the fuck I have no idea. We were on this tiny ball spinning through in a middle of a universe where we appear I mean, we've been looking. They've been looking and they're like, &quot;Don't And we are not only the only ones, we're on aren't other ones so far that we've found. And we're the only lifeforms that have consciousness And live in past, present, have such things and divinity and all of these rich, complex And grief and sorrow and devastation and hatred. And we're just so volatile. We are such a weird species. And then we get dropped into these families. We come out of the bubblegum shoot, and it's Here's your...&quot; This is my family? You're like, &quot;For real? This is my culture? This is my language? What? Like, why?&quot; I have no idea. I have no idea. And then you die? What? And you know you're going to the whole time. We're also the only species on earth who has Awareness. Awareness. Like, &quot;Hey, guess what? You're going to die.&quot; There's one, only one guarantee and it always Even though it's still literally the only It's the only thing that's ever promised. And each time we're like, &quot;What? That happened again?&quot; There was a great headline in The Onion satirical holding steady at 100%.&quot; And it's like, we still are like, &quot;What?&quot; Each time, it's like, &quot;This is a tragedy. How did this happen?&quot; It's like, &quot;How did it happen? It's the only thing I can promise you is going It's so bizarre and I don't know. I don't know what any of it means or what It's such a weird, interesting ride to be And I don't want to miss it. I don't want to miss this weird, weird rollercoaster That's what I love about you and I'm so just feel like I can catch up with you on Instagram. I'm like, &quot;There's Liz living it. Living it fully.&quot; And it's such a great reminder to all of us. I mean, we can just get caught up, right? Scrolling at your damn phone or doing the achievement or the next relationship, or whatever, &quot;Wait, hold on a second. What might I be missing? What fun could there be? And what if I stop taking the whole damn thing I mean, you just creating this miracle of what's just... it's just what is so absolutely and your- Your courage and your transparency and how Aw, thank you. To see all of it. Aw, I like having everyone in. Yeah, yeah. I mean, my turnaround time for when I learn is sometimes minutes because it feels like For me to know something or to have been helped really useful and then just hold it and not or on social media, feels like a burden on That's the whole reason I do what I do. Yeah. Because every time I make a discovery or I the world not know about this? I have a big mouth. I like talking. I need to start telling to more people. That's the whole reason this whole thing exists.&quot; I love it. And look how much it brings you. Yes. The more you give them that, the bigger you Yes, yes. I'm wondering if you would be willing to close passage in City of Girls. Yeah. Is that cool with you? Yeah. Sorry about the crappy line I drew, I was But it's your words, so you can probably read Okay. "This is what I found about life as I've You start to lose people, Angela. It's not that there's ever a shortage of people, pass, there comes to be a terrible shortage who knew the people that you both loved. The ones who knew your whole history. Those people start to be plucked away by death they go. After a certain age, it can become difficult The world can begin to feel lonely and sparse, young souls. I'm not sure whether you've had that feeling And you may have that feeling someday. All of this is why I want to end by saying nothing from you, you are precious to my heart Aww. "And should you ever find that your world new friend, please remember that I am here. I don't know how much longer I will be here earth, my dear Angela, I am yours." Yeah. That's it. I mean, really, I say that it's a book about and about saying that to somebody, &quot;Hey, if Come and find me, I'm here.&quot; Yes. Absolutely. And I feel like you have given us all so much Oh, Marie. I say that to you anytime, baby. I'm always here for you. I know, and you have been. Thank you. And I love you very, very, very much. I love you too. Thank you, sweetheart. Now, Liz and I would love to hear from you. So, we talked about so many beautiful things I'm curious, what is the insight that you're does it mean in your heart? Tell us about it in the comments below. Now, as always, the best conversations happen and leave a comment now. While you're there, be sure to subscribe to You'll get instant access to an audio I created some exclusive content, some special giveaways just don't share anywhere else. Stay on your game and keep going for your that special gift that only you have. Thank you so much for watching and we'll catch Hey, you having trouble bringing your dreams Guess what. The problem isn't you. It's not that you're not hard working It's that you haven't yet installed the Everything Is Figureoutable. It's my new book and it launches September You can order it now at everythingisfigureoutable.com. Life is in session. I like that. Liz, Liz, Liz. Love that pillow. You just breathe it out. I hope I wasn't on camera because it's How is she doing that?