wy [Applause] leftover felled wood from people cut down, let's take what Alhamdulillah asalamualaikum warahmatullahi wabarakatuh fellow friends wherever you are. Hopefully you will always be healthy of course and in the protection of Allah sub taala, everything will go smoothly amen amen ya rabbal alamin, we have arrived at this location, our plan is to make a shelter half in the ground, of course, my friend, we used it. There were sightings of the remains of people cutting wood, so it's as bold as the name can be. we'll use it for the wall or whatever, we'll try it later, we'll use it, friend. So let's take the whole thing first, friend, the details [Music] t [Music] here's the bar, let's help, so this shape is finished, here's our entrance, friend , here's the room Let's go to bed later. We 're on the edge of a cliff. I thought I forgot to take a photo of Beraya. Wow, that's a high cliff this time, friend, which way is great, ma'am [Laughs] [Laughs] So we have to make this a layered system. the rain water doesn't seep in. Please fertilize it's okay. Let's drink our coffee. Come on, let's not cook it yet. When it's boiling, it's still calm. Wow, that's so delicious drinking coffee . Wow, the sound of the coffee is great. The sound of the balan is delicious . Try the balan. It's delicious, but it's wet. We'll still be drizzling. Der Tid over there is still bright but the drizzle has come ahah it's starting to get really dark over there, friend, usually it's already raining upstream there [Music] uh the thunder will be a Bang Bur, this is serious, this is the ball of hands oh tu am [Music] that's great, let's take some moss so that it will look green later, my shelter, friends, so that it will be more natural, so that it will be more natural, it will be crushed like this, like this, it will be crushed [Applause] [ Applause] [Applause] video, what is this balan, what kind of bag is the semar bag? Oh, the semar bag, I thought the dry bag had a balang in it, Bang, oh, it has something in it, bro, I want it make him plant flowers like this, eh, it's a hole in the balan at kami balan, it turns out that Bang Alan likes beauty too, friend. Wow, this is the condition in our shelter, friend, and it's in the shape of a cave. Heh, with all the wood arranged in it. Why Bi PIN tru PIN tru P saidyyi widowand A widow with two children, that's a nice model with a solid door. Thank God, friends, our shelter is finished, our shelter is underground, here's what it looks like. So we're going to plan to find a fish, okay? Fishing while taking a shower Balan, let's go downstairs, I'll just stay here, Bang. Why are you guarding the hut, what are you guarding, Balan, what are you doing guarding the huts, sleeping like this, Our hut, so we're both Bangosi looking for fish, of course. Oh, please help Balan cook the balan rice at the same time, OK? Look for worms first, friends, in this hilly area it's a bit difficult. Looking for worms, well, here are the worms, friends, that's great, we can get worms in mountainous areas like this, ah, that's great. That's right, let's keep adding worms because who knows, who knows, we'll get a lot, Bi, I'll go there, Bi Yes, I'm careful, Bi us , steady, Bi, the point is, thank God, move, raise, raise, lift, steady, steady, steady, thank God, what kind of fish does it look like, boss, catfish? also it looks like my friend, right? Wow, thank God, Rabbil Alamin, oh, there's fish tar, Ming. Oh, thank God, the gabos fish, it turns out , how, bro, have you got it? Thank God, I got one fish, Gab and catfish, how many root catfish? Got the last two and my fishing rod broke, bro, so what do I do? Huh, don't you have any fishing rods with you ? Isn't it already afternoon? That's okay, friend. Because it's starting to be a little later, the sun is starting to set. Estimated time. So, let's go first to the shelter, up there, it's a bit far to the road, Boss, let's go up. Come on, let's go to the magic fishing rod. Our point is that our fortune today is fish. gabos one yellow catfish one root one I got this satat Thank God there is sustenance so what are you doing siil water for drinking water we take drinking water from between the rocks this water is so cold the water is really good Bro this water is really a spring between the rocks what is that tui kincong If In this language, in Indonesian it's kecombrang, kecombrang flower, here [Music] smells good, I'll make this Bismillahirrahmanirrahim tonight we cook the fish curry that we got this afternoon with tempeh and kecombrang sbat [Music] uh super delicious, this is soat fragrant ba to comombrang nih satbat Great, it's ready, we can prepare it to eat [Applause] it 's hot, hot, thank you, we're done. Tunya, we want to eat according to the menu we are catfish, root catfish, there are one, two yellow catfish, one and one snakehead fish. Thank God, our sustenance is 4, four, it's not bad if we add tempe together What's the name of Kincung? In this language, or kecombrang, kecombrang flower. It smells great, Bismillahirahman, so for friends who are watching, let's eat together, of course, so we can enjoy the pleasure of eating in the ground, friends, like me. Hah, Bismillahirrahmanirrahim, fragrant kecomrang. Heeh, this is a combination of food benchmarks. These balan crackers have kecomrang leaves and the taste is still normal, my friend, just like other vegetables we ate it while we felt the fragrance, there was a lot of fish in the balan, what was this, Kincung Kincung, spicy , spicy balan, okay , great, Alhamdulillah, it's still great, the balan is delicious, it 's spicy, thank God, when we finished eating, it's still going on, there's still some gabos, there's still catfish, there's still some catfish? there's a lot of crazy behavior, it's still a lot of gas, so we want to relax and hang out while waiting for the guys to finish eating, of course, black coffee. Ah, there's It's just raining too, my body is like how to put a blanket on, I'm sleeping a lot again, bro, what's more, I'm lying around and talking, I'm saying C, I'm using our clear plastic plug, Manai. It's raining a little bit. It's going to be black outside . We're afraid of breast milk later.