Well, starting from being an infant, I was in a good place. I was happy. But my life changed pretty much to the state school, as we call it, I'm dyslexic, but they didn't diagnose me So I struggled with a lot of academics would write reports lazy or inattentive, "David's got no interest at all I really wanted to learn, But because of my dyslexia, I left school with very little So once I was out of there, I just didn't know I moved down to London moving to London, like all capital cities, you think it's going to be that it's all going to come I had a great time there, and that was to survive in London. It was very expensive and the only work manual laboring work, working on construction sites I was not very good at that job. So I just felt that And I was struggling to find my identity, I also found that living in London, that I was mixing with I'd made friends with people They didn't seem like they were highly educated, And I thought, Well, why not me? I was constantly trying that I might find a breakthrough, With with the UK, the class structure There was there that sense of, Well, I did, I felt like I was working As much as they liked me and appreciated me I was never going to be part I had a massive Eventually I started I got to the point where I got a letter come through my door with an eviction notice saying that you're going to be evicted So that was a very low point for me. And I got a call from my sister saying, see us for the weekend? And I thinking at that point I needed I ended up staying there But just prior to me going up there, We made a really nice connection But she needed to get back to London. She got an appointment, so I was seeing So we went down to the rail station I helped her on with her bags We heard the emergency buzzers go, the automatic doors to close. But at that point the bottom corner it just got trapped right in there, I just could not pull my coat free. I looked around for a guard There wasn't anybody there. stood there, who'd been And he just shouted at me, But I knew that I couldn't do that the quality of the sheepskin was like So I got no chance. I just kept banging on the doors The engines of that train and I remember looking into She was looking right through the glass, and I just saw the sheer And I thought, This is it. I'm going to die. I didn't think I was going So the train pulled out the station It's amazing how fast they pull out. You don't really think about it. to the outside of that train, But time stretched. It didn't actually slow down, The UK rail police And I said to them, How long did it take and me going under? And I said, Wow, it felt like minutes, But I lost my footing. Then I was dragged along the platform edge the space of the platform I remember that moment, I just heard this tremendous rip. I remember seeing, it's almost like then I got sucked I was thrown around I was just tossed around. I just felt like it was me, flesh and It felt like being thrown but it was very violent and very painful. Then suddenly and I was laid in between the tracks It was a very long train. So I just kept my head down because I knew that it wasn't all over yet. That part of the undercarriage could just come and whack me But that didn't happen. I was alive, In this dirty, oily track It was a February day. I remember just feeling I don't know why, but I did. I think it was just the sheer joy I do know ultimately bigger at play that saved me But as the train had moved on down was completely ripped to shreds and my arm was ripped right open. The first thing I noticed was and all the workings, And I was in an awful lot of pain. The pain was, like, really intense. It's like the kind of pain By that point I was losing But the paramedics arrived really quick started cutting through my clothes They somehow managed and onto a stretcher but they wheeled me into the back The siren went on and we just took off We arrived to the Addenbrooke's hospital in Cambridge. There was a whole team of medics there waiting, waiting for me to come in. So they wheeled me straight in And I thought, It's not over yet, I didn't know what they were talking about And my family were there. They came in and I remember There you go! Me feeling that sense of guilt. I was saying, Mom, I'm so sorry. So it was me bringing She put her hand No, it's not your fault. I was concerned about my friend Ana the whole thing unfold, So there she was, sat at the back I said, I need to speak to Ana. So she came over and she was just She said, I thought you were dead. They announced over the speakers and I can't believe you're alive. It was pretty much at that point I left all the trauma and the agony that I was going through And I went from that But it wasn't a foreboding darkness, I remember looking around and seeing these orbs of colors They were almost like I figured pretty much I thought, Okay, this is it. I've died. I didn't resist it. I didn't try to come back. I've read since, that some people do, I've got my kids and everything. They tried to resist, I didn't want to die, but what I'd just been through was such to be in this sense of calmness, I kind of got my bearings, I looked around to see where I was. I noticed I was no longer But I was laid on this huge rock. It was like a big slate I describe it as being Oddly enough, it felt I realized that I was no longer clothed. So I was checking my body for my injuries my left arm was back in place. There wasn't even I just remember thinking, Everything is back in place. I'm just covered in this blue sheet. It was like a satin, silky, There was white light So I looked up and I saw that were coming down over my head. I sort of lay back and put my head back and I looked into this light. that normally it's a kind of light you wouldn't But in this sphere I was able to do that. I was able to look. the intensity of this light was so pure and I felt like it was I felt a sense that something So I allowed myself to bathe It was pretty much at this point that So I lifted my head slightly There was a person that stood with this white blond hair glowing light from within. I felt like I had known this person. I thought, I know you! I actually spoke and I said, Who are you? I know you, don't I? I know who you are, And this being just kept looking back. This being - I say a being so a total androgynous sort of look. He or she just kept smiling back at me, I felt safe and I felt like So I decided to lay back and put my head After a bit, I felt the presence of So again, I lifted my head and there were And they got their hands over my body, they were slowly hovering I felt the energy that was coming from I felt love coming from It was causing vibration that was just sending this energy throughout. They were healing my body, but not only my body and the physical I felt like my soul was I felt like all the years of baggage that I talked about earlier, and all those things were just been slowly They were just getting down to the pure essence of my soul So it was a wonderful feeling. I'd never felt like that before I'd never reached that point, ever, So I decided to accept love to keep coming through. I started to think about my family. I started to wonder how they were pretty distressed, down And I thought, I'm going to try and see because they're going to be really cut up now, I would have passed on. So... I edged myself over this big I kind of looked over and I didn't actually see them at all. But what I did see It was like I was looking into a huge waterfall of stars It was incredibly large But instead of tons and tons of water it was millions of stars that were just There were shooting stars and I just kind of looked down. The further I looked, I felt like I was looking into one galaxy, I was looking into... I've seen nebulas. I was seen all these beautiful images At this point I got it straight away I was in the universe itself. And I was very much a part of that universe. I felt very energized by that as well. It was very exciting to feel that energy. ?EN QUE MEDIDA FUE SU EXPERIENCIA Yeah, a lot of people and basically my answer It's another dimension, sitting here chatting to each other now. But everything's so ultra real I've never forgotten any of it. The difference as well Time doesn't exist. It's like there's no past There's only the present, That is something that's really great because just to be in that present Because I realized I'd spent both the past, worrying about and worrying about all the opportunities that I'd missed And worrying about the future. Worrying about where - especially where was I... what was Whereas in this space it didn't matter, So you're just quite happy to be Also, the difference with dreams is that dreams are more chaotic. And not only that, with time, to drift and alter. If you've had a very strong dream and you've remembered it over the years, Whereas with a near-death experience, as clear to me now as it was. Every time I recall the story, it's very easy for me to revisit It was interesting because I remember lifting my head back over Oh my goodness, I can't see my family. I would've been really distressed, It wasn't like I didn't care There were no irrational feelings. All I could feel was, Okay, And if I don't, all this beauty that I am and So, I laid my head back. I was still being continued to heal. Then I felt this energy I felt like this energy of love But suddenly it was intensified I decided to lift my head, And what I saw just behind a huge tunnel of white light that was It was circling with flames, in this edge Again it was the same whiteness but it was a lot more powerful The energy that was coming from molecule of my body I knew at this point what I was staring To me, this was God that I was looking at and not the image of God that I had always For example the guy with the beard This was like a huge tunnel of energy, with these dramatic flames I remember I just put my head back because this was the most profound moment It was pretty much at that point that I came rushing I was back in the hospital. The pain suddenly came I felt it from my feet up I couldn't look into it. Then the noise was It was like I wanted So there I was, back in my body. I was still in the A&amp;E department, which is like the emergency department, So they hadn't actually put me So they were still busy basically As I said, they were very frantic. There was so much blood I remember my sister saying afterward, she said, We were almost slipping over on it She said they were really to save the amount of blood loss But all I know is at that point because I decided And I thought before I start I want to get all my medical records Because a friend of mine I said, Will you look through all these Will you look through them all? And so... at the time that I'd had I was not taking anything at all. that would have been hallucinogenic, to go into any form of It's interesting because when Because they took me straight after I had the near-death experience. I remember coming round and I was in the hospital room on my own, And I got two things that I'd got to deal with. One was the after effects of and what had just happened to me. I'd got tubes coming out But the other most that I just had this incredible experience I'd never heard of near-death experiences. And so I was scared at that point I thought, Everyone's got So it was very important right But I didn't actually talk that were working on me in the hospital I tried to broach it a couple of times, and so they, kind of like, But I told my sister, first of all. I'm very close to her, She was just totally fascinated She said she'd seen a change in me Because she knew what I'd been going I was drinking heavily at that point, I was going through hard times, She said, Suddenly it's like you've been And she said, You're just so peaceful and you're just giving out So she got it. She understood that something had happened So once I told her it made it a lot easier I wanted everyone to get it, really. It took me about a week They came in to visit. The reason being and they were going to church. And I kind of thought, Well, it might jar They might not get it. I wanted them to get it because it was important to me That was really incredible and I told them the whole story They both sat there and listened. Then my mother turned round straight she put her hand on me It was like a mother's instincts. I said, How do you know? She said, David, whenever we come in we walk into this room you've got tubes coming out of you, you can't move, but you're just glowing. You've got this glowing light to you. Not only that, you're giving out to everybody around you, whereas you are But you're giving out energy Then other friends would come from all different walks of life. A couple of the guys and I told them. Nobody questioned it and thought People were saying, One of my friends said so. It's interesting because feeling at that point that even though and in that hospital bed, I felt that the energy I felt like I still got a connection with that other realm, as it were, and I felt like they were They were still healing me. But it is a different dimension, to put words in there that can describe Like when I talked about going through my body. It was hard for me at first to say it. You know, I remember telling people my whole body was vibrating Wow, that sounds really strange. But then I thought, Well, no, it was like, It was like every single molecule, So there are times when it's hard So that made it a lot easier because it felt like this was the new me. There's no going back. And a lot of people say to me, because I didn't make They said, Oh, you must've been... And I said, No, I wasn't disappointed. I was just filled with all this love And I thought, What is my mission? Why have they sent me back? That's all I could think of I've spoken to other people and it's the same for all of us, which is filled with love, The trouble is that it's very hard and be able to be like that and be accepted and accept that So I hit depression, actually, it was almost impossible with all this love So, you know, it wasn't all easy. You don't come superhuman, and you're back into your human body Not only that, obviously, a massive experience, and I was dealing All those things were there. But ultimately what had happened and I knew I was being helped to steer Well, society, I guess. Yeah. As I said earlier, I was scared I thought, How am I going to... And I thought, I know, a huge painting, like the biblical scenes I wanted something as powerful as that, even though I'd never done I thought, that's what I'm going to do, because that's how I can tell So I remember my sister came in Is there anything I can bring you into I said, Yeah, can you get me And she went, "Okay." I remember the nurses propped me up of the outline of what had happened, I still got that sketch and you can barely see it So when I got out of the hospital, that's one of the first things Start this painting. I got myself a huge canvas. So there it was, leaning against the wall But I was also scared that I wasn't going to be able to do this and I didn't want to mess this up. But a friend of my sisters and she and her husband run They said, Look, we've got some studio Why don't you come do your painting there? You've got no excuse now. So I said, Okay. So I went in there by the end of that week, But what was happening The colors that were were immediately powerful I knew straight away I was, what I'd call, channeling - It was just helping me to create Yeah, that's absolutely true. I'd stopped all that. Because I'd learnt, being in that near-death experience, and that they'd peeled all the layers off. It was just And what I came back with, That I was loved. It made me feel love for myself And once I got that self love, I stopped acting, if you like, I stopped aspiring to be something else I just thought, No. I just allowed myself to be me It started with those paintings I became prolific. While I was up in the attic space a lot of people who were coming in to the yoga I was called the The Artist in the Attic, and look at my paintings It helped me realize that my for the first time in my life And I thought, Well, this works. It's interesting, once I'd found that authentic I started meeting people who were who became very important people that made my life more livable. But you don't have You don't have to have a near-death I realize now just how many people that people are... that I would call acting. We have to act to be able to fight our way and make our lives palatable I used to turn around to myself and say, How do people do it? How do they get these careers? How do they get these breakthroughs? How do they get the fantastic car Whereas I realize now that if you stop We look at brilliant sportsmen Say for example, we take... Okay, let's take or Mary J. Blige in a performance. They don't act. Their performance is coming It's coming from within. I'm really drawn to that. We love watching those people we go, Wow, this guy's amazing. He's the best guitarist because I remember seeing an interview with the runner, Usain Bolt, and I They interviewed him and he stood there, And they say, How did you feel He said, I was relaxed. I felt really relaxed. There's the answer. He's just kind of relaxing Then he won it, he's the fastest man in the world. I guess what I'm trying to say, is to be in the moment Stop worrying about the future. Stop worrying about the past If we look around, the moment we're in For example, we've got when we come up to a red light If we're going to a busy meeting. We can either sit there and get I'm going to be a minute late, Or we can accept it and go, It's 2 minutes. I may as well just enjoy this or just stop and be in the moment. So that's what I try Because we're all thinking, No, I've not got time for that. My life is too hectic, you know. Spiritual healing was great for me, that's something I would recommend Because it's the nearest When I'm sat there, You normally have two healers You feel the energy coming through through their hands are through my body. It's a magical experience. You feel in touch with yourself and you feel that it doesn't matter about that next meeting you've got, Then suddenly you come away and In fact, when I was I was being told by a few of them, because a few of them are mediums, and they'd get a few messages through. They were saying, I'm seeing a violin laid across your chest, Then one of them said, about your experience. But I knew nothing about classical music So that came from going I gained that message, a very old cheap synthesizer that I'd got, This evolved into something It started becoming... I thought, This So my authentic voice came through. Because the first piece I'd written, it was called The Divine Light, and it was I allowed myself to keep working on it. I had no ambition like, Wow, I make lots of money. One of the people who used to come up She was in an orchestra Look, what you're up to these days? We went for coffee and I said, based on my spiritual experience. She said, Oh, great! And I said, It sounds like She said, Maybe we could do it So they agreed to do it. So again, synchronicity, Those doors opened and those people came it was being performed to a sellout I remember the conductor's and the opening chords that I've written were now coming through It was like this three dimensional sound filled the room and it sounded absolutely beautiful. It was just as I'd heard it in my head. All that because I let it grow I just let it develop and flower There's nothing wrong with ambition. I'm not saying you shouldn't It's just that things will happen if you just allow it. Well, to give an example, I remember her passing really well because she had a heart attack It wasn't a major one. I remember spending that evening and we both told her Then I got a phone call of a very frantic sounding doctor saying, Your mother's had a massive heart attack. I remember getting in the car and I got a 25 minute drive When I turned the key a beautiful piece of music by Mahler, Gustav Mahler, I knew at that moment that my mother put that there to help me When I did get to the hospital, And then as a family, we said When I said my goodbyes to her, Then I said, Well, Mum, where you're going now - or where you are And I knew she would. Obviously I was grieving over the loss of a mother that had raised me But it helped me so much to know that basically from my perspective, the soul is far too powerful an entity Yes, the body stops and whereas the soul is just too strong and And so it gives me faith to know that, but when others pass, that they're in safe It's a great question, that, Yes, that other realm, it was beautiful andI felt at peace and I felt at one. And when I did come back, of course, all the challenges were still there, But there has to be adversity, unfortunately. Without adversity there's no new growth The only thing I will say is... because I advise, and they are suffering from depression and I take a lot of time But what I do say is, before any adversity I would just try and jump over it. I would keep my life as because you're just trying to suppress something that's only going Whereas now, any adversities I try to go straight into so an obstacle is ahead of me now, some adversity is about to happen. But it hasn't happened yet. If I stop and be in the moment I'm alright. I'm still feeling alright. I'm not being grabbed by the throat I'm okay. So... it's just trying to do that, just trying very hard Going back to that incident about the anticipation of death It's the same with life, you know. We anticipate the worst. We always give a story of and that story's alwyas going to be Half the time it's not. I feel like we're all part the universe. When I was in that realm, And the universe ultimately It does with nature. All the seasons change. It's creation that's The universe is moving And so are we. Again, looking back on my life before, There was only one point and that was when I got the eviction I opened my fridge door and all I got And I thought, shall I open it or not? At that point and I prayed I didn't even know who It's interesting because It's almost like I wasn't allowing I was holding one hand up at the same time I know it's all my fault, Whereas now I realize that we are all loved. We've all got our own guides, like I've got up there. In fact, my guides have been with me That's how I recognized that So we've all got our guides But, just to remember also that if we ask for help, We don't need to grasp our hands together Also, the most important thing is Don't feel guilt or shame Or you're a sinner, that you've sinned - Because that's not what it's about, the God that I saw is all about love, And there's no judgment whatsoever. So just let all that sense of judgment go. 'Cause we all do it, we all go through We may not show it to others, But let all that go and When that love comes in, boy, it makes such a difference. You know, you just... you just kind of stop, and you stop trying to push and all that love will start to creep in And when you see your true self, It's the greatest love of all.