Firing shells over long distances piece can devastate the enemy, especially when those shells end up But a howitzer pointed straight It means that the enemy forces both sides can see each other, which means they can shoot at each other. This is called direct fire, when the barrel of the howitzer is as if it was a shotgun... Direct fire is usually a last But under normal circumstances, meaning that the crew In this case, the weapon system is aimed usually over friendly forces, But why is this soldier even though he cannot why is the metal rod that's used to and not straight? and why the US army would fire howitzer is not what you think. This is an artillery piece, But the type of gun used boils down how far away it is and what for a fire mission. This is a mortar, Each mortar system has four pieces the baseplate, the sight, the tube itself. Mortars are muzzle loaded, You and I could do it too, This is called riding the lightning, when someone stands on the baseplate The recoil from the round being shot the base plate into the ground. But for safety reasons, in the United States, the smallest mortar is the Usually requiring a crew of three, they can lob high explosive with an effective kill The higher the caliber of the mortar, This is why the Israeli designed 120 mm Instead, they're transported either by truck like the M106A2, The downside of using these specialized is their limited firing range. Because there just isn't enough room to they can only perform high angle fire. Most other artillery pieces are capable and this is generally divided by shots lower than 45 degrees. Low angle fires are wide open areas because the rounds have to travel This means there is a shorter time in and the round actually impacted. High angle is better for areas targets inside of tall cover. This is especially useful for urban can safely hide behind cover, shoot over the buildings, concentrated area. But if a mortar isn't quite up for the then the howitzer is what you'd need. This is the British designed M high explosive ammunition. Howitzers are much heavier, and more sophisticated than mortars. You need specialized infantry Before a howitzer can be fired, See, a howitzer's recoil is significant. To manage this recoil, the howitzer has feet that are keep the whole system in place. The digging is done to help So once the first shot is fired, Kind of like grounding your opinions in which gives you multiple perspectives And it works like you choose your topics of interest. For me, it's military and the upcoming 2024 United States election. &quot;Ground News&quot; then compiles the relevant world and shows their coverage For example, I was looking at the artillery States has shipped to Ukraine. Their easy to use interface right and center cover and it's a great way to And if I want to take a deeper dive, I can simply click on any article listed My favorite feature, is the blind spot where I can I don't typically follow, but could play an important We have featured our sponsor &quot;Ground because we find their service to So go to ground dot news slash NWYT or up and get 40% off the vantage plan with Before the next shot can be fired, someone has to look into the barrel It's a safety check to Once confirmed, The long stick that's used to push But how come the rammer is There is a good reason for this. If the barrel was pointed a straight rammer would not clear the A curved rammer solves that problem. Each round has a fuse and this determines what will actually Point detonating fuses Delay fuses will penetrate then detonate. Time fuses have an internal mechanism it would explode after a Proximity fuses such as an airbus ground reach a certain distance from the target. After the round is pushed in, someone places the The charge is what propels the round... Each round comes packaged Depending on the range of the target, Now everything is ready. But one important thing is missing. Where do you aim exactly? Pointing a howitzer at a target involves three parties, the Fister, the fire direction center, Fister stands for Fire Support Team. They're also referred These are specialized soldiers and its exact location, then plan the time that the target ammunition that should be used. This planning is done via a TTLODAC. All this information is relayed or FDC. Given that the FDC knows the and the location of the targets, it does a small mountain of range and trajectory of the shots. They also determine how many and what target to achieve the desired result. The FDC is not the sexiest but it's a critical step that makes destroyed or just giving them tinnitus. The FDC then directly transmits to the computer systems attached This information tells the crew adjusted for deflection and quadrant, which is a fancy way of then up and down. The crew will spin the gun controls to And after a bunch of yelling, they pull the trigger... That's all it really takes If, the FDC cannot send the the crew need to aim the First, the gun is pointed in the This is called the line of fire. Then two striped sticks, are placed in front of the The guns are then aimed at certain After each fire, the point of aim needs to be adjusted To do so, the crew look through the gunsight the appropriate adjustments. These adjustments are done in mills, which is similar to degrees Degrees can only go up to 360 in a circle, allowing for more fine There is a big similarity between Even though snipers have Due to the distance from the target, The spotter who's accompanying the for the sniper to correct his aim. Similarly, artillery fire is unlikely to That's why they need to do bracketing. Bracketing is basically walking Once the observer sees they can then provide corrections adjust for the next shot. This process repeats itself until the After this is achieved, and all the artillery guns that all of their assigned routes. Howitzer batteries always aim to with the smallest payload possible. This not only preserves their ammo stocks, but also makes it safer for the You may have heard of &quot;danger close&quot; from the movies... In real life, danger close refers to any fire mission and is used in order to ensure any do not impact the good guys. According to american artillery doctrine, it's usually considered safe if the meaning if you had a circle impact for some odd reason, only one of them would be limping Of course, The M 116A1 round is basically a areas for ground forces to move Other rounds do the opposite, such as the M 485A2 illumination round More advanced illumination rounds are which means that American forces better see the area around them. But to the naked eye, Large artillery pieces are typically They can be carried via helicopter or they can be towed behind a truck. By the way, thats not a bayonet at Thats called the muzzle lock, which is hooked onto the back of the Being slung underneath an aircraft to a remote location quickly, and it looks way cooler... But having their own vehicles allows Thats because once an artillery it's very easy for local radar systems This has been a massive issue for where artillery batteries must quickly risk being destroyed by incoming shell. While the vehicle on the it's actually the third way artillery They can drive themselves. This is an M 109 Paladin and you'll find these supporting The logic behind using a self propelled platform that can move as quickly vehicles it's supporting do. Though visually similar their armor is actually quite and some small arms fire. Artillery operations have not been drones in today's warfare... The use of drones for artillery has drastically increased the Instead of a spotter, using approximate coordinates having a birds-eye view allows for adjustments can be fed directly According to a recent study by the UK, Russian artillery crews that operated targets just three minutes after Without drones, it would take almost 30 after being first called in by a fister on the ground.