Welcome to another Matholger video. When that all the really good and simple stuff has Right? Triangles, Pythagoras, all this stuff has anything truly nice and easy have gone unnoticed a wonderful little discovery about triangles that any triangle. Mark the midpoints of the sides. that end in these midpoints. These guys here. always intersect in a point. And so the medians usually all different in shape and size. This mathematicians have been staring at this diagram triangles, those two. Insert a hinge right there with these two triangles here. Actually, wait, already guess where all this is going? Yes? No? same triangle as before. Have a look. And now you put in a hinge, fold up and you get the same new discovery. Very simple and very beautiful, isn't triangle the folded triangle. The common side of folded triangle. Right? Pretty obvious. And, there fold up the folded triangle. Great. Now compare triangle. Notice anything special? Yes, the folded of the original triangle. Interesting and very was only discovered for the first time 10 years mathematics, a lot more beauty is hiding in the works. Lot's of nice AHA moments ahead and so make than just the medians meeting in the controid. median into a long and a short part. and that length of the short green part. There. The blue is true for any median, the blue is always twice as long as the green. And again, blue is twice as all this is the case. Scaling our triangle down you've probably all seen this before, we can now triangle like this. Okay. Here is one of the From the tiling it's clear that if we extend this little triangle. That one here. There extend. And triangle at the very top. And now of course, form the median of the large triangle AND this the middle of the tiling, AND the blue part of the of course, the same is true for all three medians. right at the center of the tiling and are all cut Super nifty, right? :) Actually with these two also prove that the three ways of folding give the folded folded triangle is a scaled down version of parts really all fold up into the same triangle, blue have to have the same area, exactly one third see why that is true. Easy, The area formula for the blue triangle and the original triangle have which the medians are cut by the centroid, it's of the original triangle. And, therefore, also 1/3 of the area of the original triangle. And of the green triangle. Nice. Have you ever done any a paper crane? Well when you unfold the crane you is the blueprint for the crane design. Similarly, everything that happens in our triangle folding terms of little triangles, distances and angles look. Let's first highlight the angles around the So are these. and these and so on. Okay, now any the angles in the middle. For example, let's take to the bottom line through the centroid And so the angle plus the green angle. Another example, this clear that our angle is equal to the grey angle the whole diagram gives this. Pretty spectacular, aboriginal dot painting. Okay, get ready for an the three folded up triangles. They all look the check the angles at the vertices. There all the that all three triangles also have the same congruent, that all three triangles are the same. that these triangles are all the same. But we triangle is similar to the original triangle. For are the same. Beauuuutiiiiiful :) Proof complete again in a slightly different way. As you'll just turning it inside out, with a bit of scaling turns things inside out again and returns us to started from. So, folding is really just a nifty a couple more interesting observations. First, triangles. and an equilateral triangle folds right triangles. Well let's see. Folding a right since folding turns triangles inside out we can folded triangle. There are the right angles. bouncing up and down in your seats :) Being well immediately spotted another way of seeing pretty are the same. Here is that second proof that your own. This one just takes a couple of seconds. fold So two of the sides of this folded triangle orange. What can we say about the remaining black we know that this green segment is half as long the remaining side of the folded triangle consists side is as long as the blue side. nice. And so just the three coloured long median parts of the all three folded triangles, all have to be the article by Lee Sallows about his discovery in the Just one page :) And so it really is still of triangle spotting to discover new simple that's all for today's mini Mathologer. Flat didn't have time for a Kurosawa length Mathologer you enjoyed it :) Oh, and by the way, which of painting leisurely one which really takes in one-glance one at the end that goes straight