You thought you were done, but no. There are 35 more Windows commands the first thing we'll do is launch our So either hit Windows key S on your from there. Type in cmd, right click What if it just ran as administrator Instead of clicking run as administrator, There we have our command prompt Click on properties advanced and click Sucker click okay, apply. Okay, so now it will default to beast mode every time. This command will help you hide all your the journal, everything. I'll take all my images and my And then with the copy command I can kitten. Copy slash b, specify the image plus and then the name of your new secret It's just a photo to you. It's a safe we can encrypt every file in that If they do find it. Cipher I'm in every file encrypted. So now only I can open these files and We can hide our folders from everyone Keep an eye on it, it's gonna disappear. I'll type in a trip plus H plus S plus R, and the name of our folder, boom, To bring it back, just do the opposite. removing those attributes and the Net sh w n Show profile. This command will show you every wifi And what's even crazier is you can see right here in your terminal. Same Specify the wireless network. and then type in key equals clear to There it is right here. If you wanna see all wifi passwords for command, this one-liner will send you too much to parse through in a We put it into a file. Let's but at the very end we'll I think it's what they're called. wifi passwords dot txt and bam. Blur these please. Now you're never So let's say we put it into a batch I'll paste in this command and file save as all files and Now we just type in wifi This is a quick way to find out You simply type in system info like this and it shows P or secure copy lets you copy a file to the file you want to copy and then the mine will be route at the IP address, then colon and where you want to authenticate with your password I use this all the time now I Check this out right from Explorer, I can go up to the address bar, type a command prompt and Call of Duty I can also do it in reverse where I'm I'll type in explorer and then dot right after that That's awesome. Did you know you can map any folder For real, check this out. The command will be S U B S T subs and do you want some more coffee? Don't put a colon after that. let's just use the one we have right here. I'll put that inside quotations and Let's open up explorer and yeah, there it goes right to the call of duty folder It'll probably want to undo that. So the command is subs slash which was oh S for some more coffee. Okay, time for a quick coffee break and this sponsored by IT pro tv, which Now you're gonna need them because scratching the surface on it. If you wanna get a job and they've got all the training you need to care if you're just getting started there are always things we're in it and things So whether it's that first cert or they've got your back. And but you probably don't even need Of course you need coffee, but if you don't drink coffee you entertaining they won't put if you hang out with my friends you're gonna have a good time. ethical hacking that got everything you can actually just start doing. They've got labs baked in and practice Let's probably self-explanatory, check out it pro TV like below. you get 30% off forever. It's cool. Coffee break over now it's Pretty first command is color. Type in Like two and four. What? No, I can't, Well that's kind of nice. Four, let me uh get some help here. so here's the colors. Let's Opposite zero seven. Actually I Let's go green on black old That's the text black I had it wrong. There we go. I spent The first number is the background, second number is the text. Now we can do can change this. Check it out, beautiful closing bracket and Now that's how you have Now you didn't need the brackets but talking about pretty, you could do it Now if this is not your thing, just simply Now if you wanna be even more you can change the title For some reason it's all for prettiness. So just type in title and then what look at that. It changed the name. This next section is crazy. You ready I think 10 has curl built So with the curl command we can do We can check the weather in our command. where are you? I'm in Dallas. The weather This is the coolest way to this one's pretty cool. You can see where it goes before you open it, type in curl and a few parameters And then these shorten your url, just And then, because we only care about we'll do a bracket, type in fine shorten link goes here. And also you It pro tv. Shameless plug. You can also check these status Type in curl dash capital I then chuck.com. Is it up right now? Sure. which also happens to be the name of Wow. Oh my goodness. Where do I buy. Some Curl Continues. What's Find out right from the amazon aws.com. Bam. Public I've blurred it out, right? Austin, This one's kind of dumb You can use Curl from your command prompt then QR, e n c o.de, and then slash the Let's do network chuck.coffee right here in your command prompt. Let's see if it works. Dude, it totally Now I have good news. You no longer have to rely on YouTube You can use the command prompt. you can curl dash s and then this address, which is kind of long and at the end just and it will show you the latest at least the name of it. &lt;laugh&gt;, not And you can even do it for Twitter. but a Twitter U url. And You never ever have to leave the command Stay here. I told you it's home. A few more you can define a word prompt curl dick.org/d for definition colon, and then a word. Let's An unexpected and untoward accident. A hitch &lt;laugh&gt;. Use it in a word I'm never gonna use that word. Now this is probably the coolest use Twin Worlds. Collide. Now did you know you can This is crazy. Check this out. I'm gonna paste in as long Now let's ask it a question. And there it is right there in two and a half inches. How do you Now we can use chat, G p, T It's only fair that chat G P T can You can do that. By the way, found this Let's try it out. Okay, we gotta set up. Let's see if well you can't curl or do anything else. You can open a website Just type in start the website and you can delete all the temporary files outta space. So you can download that new and then run this command space restored. You may not have this command. Type in Hit enter. Oh, you don't have it. Hit Windows key S and just search for here. Turn Windows features on or off. We're going to enable Telenet a very old use for most things. Find Telenet, It's gonna install it real quick. Done it should work. How do I get out of take me a minute, figure it Type in Telenet and then Now pick your po, like maybe you wanna Why not type in Star Wars? And we're just gonna watch Ah, I'm got to this. Okay, that's I had control C to stop it. Let's I hear it. I mean that's just F1 through nine can actually make Prompt F1 will type in each It's kinda strange. That's cool though. Yeah, like I don't know what the use So like for example, that's the previous it's gonna prompt me to copy the previous If I type in like I, it's just gonna it's why common Blue If you I don't know. F three is more useful. Okay, get that. F four I'll type in IP and think again and I I'll type in F four and I'll say like, where do you wanna delete the character Okay, that's weird. I don't know. Again, I'm sure people like are amazing I don't get it. F five is pretty cool. Just F five at, yeah, I like it. F six enters the EEO F or That's handy for when you're hiding It opens up a list of previous commands. Now this is probably the coolest one here. I wanna do that one. Like that's F eight will like enter the very first terminal or this command prompt, And then F nine is pretty weird. but it'll prompt you for the number. that was the 24th command I entered in Now to get a proper list of you can do this dokey dokey slash history. Everything you ever did written Now this next command is gonna break your using right now, the command I shouldn't even showed you this. The new kid on the block is You can install on Windows 10. We're for terminal. This thing's pretty slick. You can do everything we just did we'll probably want an open command I'll cover that in a second. Click on the But that's the killer feature, Now because we're in terminal, it opens For example, maybe you're trying but you're like, man, what's I don't know where it is. You can just open it and explore, find it, and just drag it there and it copies it. Could you imagine typing this That's awesome. Another cool thing is you can shift, right? Click a and bam, there you are. If you need help, and it'll give you pretty much I think that's a lot of 'em. And typing in any of these you can do a slash question This command is not one at all. Use PowerShell. PowerShell is better than Windows don't get me wrong, I still use It's just outta habit. It's But if you wanna learn anything, you It's like command prompt but And to use PowerShell, it's You can switch back and forth between and Windows Power Shell. That's