Adamantium, bolognium, dilithium. Element Zero, Kryptonite. Mythril, Netherite, Orichalcum, Unobtanium. We love the idea of fictional elements with to discover. But is it really possible that new elements Science fiction in particular often imagines whose incredible properties will propel us But for anyone who has studied a bit of chemistry, this seems far fetched. The elements of the periodic table are defined by the number of protons in the atomic nucleus - the atomic number - so how can there be Sure, we could keep adding protons at the seem to be hopelessly unstable, and so hardly useful for building warp drives. But the fact is, gaps in the periodic table appear naturally. And it may also be that the current upper such gap, beyond which may exist an island of stability containing useful elements never before encountered. To understand the possibility of new artificial elements let's start with the story of the first artificial element. We begin all the way back when Mendelev figured out the periodic table. He arranged the known elements according to their atomic weight, and noticed periodic recurrences of chemical properties as atomic weight increased. We now know that chemical properties depend on the number of outer shell or valence electrons, which increase by one every time you add a proton to the nucleus, until the shell fills and you start over, filling the next shell Although he didn't know about protons, Mendelev did notice gaps in his periodic table. He correctly interpreted these as four elements that had yet to be discovered. He was even able to predict many of their Over time three of these elements were discovered and the gaps were filled with scandium, gallium and germanium. But there remained a missing element, right between Molybdenum and Ruthenium, which we figured out had to correspond to a nucleus For seven decades chemists searched for element 43, but it was nowhere to be found in nature. It was eventually discovered, but not in nature. In 1937 Italian physicist Emilio Segre got part of Ernest Lawrence's newly invented The foil has been rendered radioactive in Carlo Perrier were able to show that some it into element 43. They named the new element Technetium after the Greek word for &quot;art&quot; or &quot;craft&quot;, so in a sense its name means &quot;Crafted element&quot;. It's a silvery-grey metal with chemical properties somewhere between manganese and ruthenium, the elements above and below it on the periodic table, just as predicted by Mendelev. So why did we have to produce technetium artificially, nature? Well, actually technetium is produced in nature of massive stars. Those elements eventually find their way into stars after they explode as supernovae. But technetium is so unstable that by the the detritus of dead stars, all the technetium You're probably familiar with the idea that A more common term is radioactive, which we tend to associate with very heavy elements like uranium and plutonium. For those, the instability sort of makes sense - their nuclei are enormous, so you might expect they'd have trouble holding themselves together. But actually any element on the periodic table can be unstable. More accurately, every element on the periodic table has unstable isotopes. "Isotope" is the word for different versions of neutrons. For example, a carbon atom has 6 protons in the nucleus. The isotope of Carbon that also has 6 neutrons is called carbon-12 for its 12 total nucleons, and it's perfectly stable. Now an atom with 6 protons and 8 neutrons is still carbon - carbon-14, but it's not stable. It has a tendency for one of its excess neutrons to transform into a proton after ejecting an electron and a neutrino, which transmutes it into nitrogen. The half-life of Carbon-14 is around 5700 because it's created when cosmic rays hit We say carbon-14 is an unstable isotope of carbon. Every element has unstable isotopes. Some elements only have unstable isotopes - for example, any with more than 83 protons, but also weird exceptions like technetium, And there are different shades of instability- for example technetium-97 has a half-life of 4.2 Million years, while technetium-96 Larger atomic number tends to yield fewer Elements with more than 118 protons decay so quickly that we've never been able to detect one in the lab Ultimately, stability depends on the balance between protons and neutrons in the nucleus. You might think that after a century and a have all of this figured out. But actually the dynamics of the atomic nucleus are so complicated that it takes sophisticated computer modeling to understand any but the lightest elements - and many mysteries still remain. But we're getting there, so let's see at work. An atomic nucleus is a place of extreme forces in delicate balance. On the one hand we have apart all those positively charged protons, to the proximity of the protons. On the other hand we have the even-stronger strong nuclear force holding the nucleons together. We talked about how the strong force holds protons and neutrons together. The story of how it binds entire nuclei is It involves sending virtual quark packets The details deserve their own episode, but a short-range effect. If a nucleus gets too big, the strong force of nuclear decay become inevitable. Although the strong force vanishes quickly, its strength doesn't change much over the short distance where it actually works. However, electromagnetism just keeps getting stronger the closer two electric charges get. That means electromagnetism can overwhelm the strong force if protons are too close together, which is another way to destabilize the nucleus. That's why neutrons are so useful - they force stays stronger than electromagnetism. For smaller nuclei - up to an atomic number of 20 - an even split of protons and neutrons is usually the most stable. But for heavier elements more and more neutrons are needed to provide that buffer, reaching neutron-to-proton ratios of 1.5 or more. But this is only part of the picture. It doesn't explain why the difference of in stability. It also doesn't explain why there's no To understand that we have to move beyond the common representation of the nucleus as a muddled blob of protons and neutrons. We have to think of these nucleons as having energy levels, just like electrons do. You may remember the Octet Rule from your chemistry classes: If an electron shell has eight electrons it is stable. That's the reason the Noble Gasses don't interact with anything, because their electron shells are already complete. Something similar happens in this case, there are magic numbers which complete nuclear shells, they are 2, 8, 20, 28, 50, 82, 126 for neutrons, and 2, 8, 20, 28, 50, 82, 114 for protons. The closer a nucleus is to those numbers, The magic numbers are all even, and that's quantum spin, just like electrons in their One spin up and one spin down results in a net zero spin. This sort of spin coupling means that even still prefer to have even numbers of protons, or even numbers of protons plus neutrons. Pairs of up-down nucleons form these stable-little spin-zero partnerships in so-called nuclear pairing interactions. Having a rogue proton or neutron with an un-canceled spin seems to be bad for stability. Let's see if we can understand the instability of Technetium using some of this. Sure we can see that 43 is not a magic number of protons, nor is it even like its more stable neighbors Molybdenum and Ruthenium. But the nearby odd numbered elements like the 47-proton'd silver have perfectly stable isotopes. Even giving Technetium a magic number of 50 neutrons doesn't help. Nor does giving it a total even number of Why, for example, does Technetium-97 survive for 4 million years but Tc-96 decays in under an hour? It seems there are more mysterious forces filling, and spin coupling. It turns out there are no simple set of principles to determine nuclear stability. There are so many factors at play that the the nucleus. And we've had some remarkable success doing this using computational techniques like density functional theory, which we explained in a These models are still not perfect, but they some predictions that we haven't. For example, the island of stability. When we combine our experimental data with our simulations we can make graphs like this one. Here we can see the magic numbers. Elements with a magic number of protons have more stable isotopes, and there tend to be more isotopes with a number of neutrons close to the neutron magic numbers. Patterns emerge, but not so as to give us stable nucleus. As for the unstable ones like Technetium - well, they have unlucky spots in terms of not having magic or even even numbers of protons, and for whatever complex reasons there is no configuration of neutrons that can stabilize that unhappy So, are there elements not on the periodic Well, there are many. Nature can make these, but unless that production process is ongoing on the Earth, like with Carbon-14, short-lived unstable elements are extremely rare in nature, only appearing briefly in the decay chain of other, longer-lived The first was Technetium, but we've now in Mendelev's gaps, and also extending the Oganesson, with its half-life of 0.69 milliseconds. There are elements beyond that, but we haven't detect them. But this isn't the end. I've hinted at this island of stability. Our calculations show that there may be more magic numbers for large numbers of protons and neutrons beyond the current periodic table. And our computer simulations agree. We aren't sure what these magic numbers of 184 for neutrons, and 126 for protons, of years. These stable-ish elements would appear here on the graph from before. A small Island of stability in an ocean of not been able to reach it with the same techniques we used to craft the other artificial elements. If we want to get there our conventional nuclear reactors and particle accelerators will not be enough, we will have to come up with something new But why should we even try to get to the Island of Stability? I mean, it's nice to get to name an element, have any impact on the world? Well probably, and possibly a large one. The eras of humanity are named by the materials we have mastered at the time - the Stone Age, the Bronze Age, the Iron Age, into the current Silicon Age. And new artificial elements have proved invaluable. For instance, Technetium is used all the time in medical imaging as a contrast agent, and in this case its short half life is actually By using an isotope with a half life of only of radiation the patient will be exposed to, Plutonium is another example - no stable isotopes, but we can breed it from uranium in nuclear reactors, where it becomes a critical part types. Millions of people rely on it for their electricity. And then there's Americium, created by bombarding that plutonium in a cyclotron to kick it one up on the periodic table before a complex Americium is critical for smoke detectors saved many lives. The elements we will discover in the island hard to synthesize, and somewhat radioactive. But some will surely have unexpected and perhaps powerful applications. We discover hints of these islands of possibility just beyond the bounds of the known. What can we do but hold our breath and leap towards them, hoping to gain new ground in humanity's journey to further and future horizons of space time. As always, a huge thanks to everyone who supports us on Patreon. We seriously would not be here without you. Today's special shoutout goes to Glenn Sugden, who's supporting us at the quasar level. Glenn, as thanks for your generous support we're naming element 267 after you. Sugdenium is great. It's mildly radioactive, extremely useful for low-temperature fusion. On top of that glows a lovely shade of violet. Glenn, thanks for your support. We'll ship you a gram of sugdenium as soon In our last episode we talked about grabby That's the hypothesis that says that the to be cut off at some point, or else humanity is too surprisingly early to the universe. And the cut off is when the universe is fully colonized by ... yep, grabby aliens. eliyah zayin has a thoughtful criticism of that we can't especially early in the universe. To paraphrase: even if there's a very low of the first, someone has to be first. So there's always going to be one civilization that ends up 'confused' about why it's so early. So here you get to the most contentious aspect of anthropic reasoning. If I argue that I should find myself in the my existence, what circumstances does that preclude? Nick Bostrum's self-sampling assumption It says that all other things equal, an observer should reason as if they are randomly selected from the set of all actually existent(past, present and future) observers in their reference class. So the trick is figuring out what your reference class is. For example, if I define my reference class to be surprised that I don't find myself But that permits the 4 billion years of habitability prior to my birth. Why am I in the least brutal of those 4 billion years? Just lucky? But if I define my reference class as those who are able to formulate anthropic arguments then it's less surprising that I live in But then why can't I define my reference After all, I am my mental experience, and is what got me asking these questions in the first place. Being a member of an early species is one I am. You could say that this is too restrictive the fact is there is no clearly correct way All of this anthropic stuff is quite muddy. Tristan Cleveland points out that life may on early, except for the fact that once one it would be very difficult for it to happen That second incidence would surely be eaten by the now-more-evolved first incidence. Indeed we see that the DNA off all life clearly came from a single common ancestor. So if this dynamic happened on earth it makes sense it could happen across the universe. And that's exactly what the study we discussed is suggesting. That the emergence of new civilizations is They may not be eaten - but they can't emerge naturally in a fully colonized universe. Several of you were pleased by the idea that we might be thought of as the ancients by the civilizations that followed. For example medic likes that we might one day be referred to as &quot;the old ones", with our ancient tec and ruins scattered across the universe. Let's just make sure we're the all-wise, than the tentacley Lovecraftian type. Because you know that's another solution became cosmic horrors, obliterating anything that comes after. Just like life on earth probably did. Hm. If all this is inevitable then I guess we want Or we just hide? Of course it's exactly this thinking that Paradox. Dammit.