Space, vast, and limitless at first sight. Three, two, one, fire! To quench our thirst for knowledge, mankind has sent thousands of satellites The satellites are absolutely crucial However, each time debris is jettisoned into orbit. Since the beginning of space exploration, and the situation is close Flying junk is a danger and all future space missions. We're generating debris faster than it can be cleaned out Sooner or later that we cannot use it To avoid our space dreams we need to start cleaning up space, and not a moment too soon. Since the end of the 1950s, mankind has launched thousands Rockets place satellites in orbit where they follow They circle above our heads and undertake precise missions. For example, photographing the Earth relaying telephone, between two locations on Earth. Or in the case of military satellites, Controlled from the ground, cameras, sensors, fuel, to provide the energy required Some break down while others stop working They become orbital debris Sometimes they hit other objects, Today, nearly a million objects larger Being struck by orbital debris and risks sending our society The problem began 60 years ago. At the end of the 1950s, mankind realized that Earth's future In the middle of the Cold War, when it launched Sputnik, At the National Center rocket scientist Christophe Bonnal The orbital debris problem as the first launch with the launch of Sputnik 1. After 21 days, Sputnik stopped working. It was a non-functioning what we call orbital debris. Sputnik's brief existence came to an end in the earth's atmosphere However, the small satellite Determined to catch up with the Soviets, The Soviets' advance The Soviets had all the firsts, the first person in space, who had to increase The Americans launched a series named Apollo. Send 180 Degrees Clearance is good. At the time, nobody was concerned or even radioactive elements in space. From 1967 to 1988, the Soviet Union launched spy satellites However, some of these satellites In September 1977, American radars noticed was making erratic maneuvers. It was the first nuclear alert On January 12th, 1978, the Americans contacted Soviet authorities Two days later, the Russians confirmed that they had lost control When the satellite it scattered radioactive material The newspapers were quick to report the demise In the midst of the Cold War, could be a potential danger However, it wasn't the only danger, even launching satellites Each rocket launch Old satellites have stayed up there, and that's what has led to the situation During the years of the space race, satellites were not the only items European Space Agency engineer, has analyzed the orbital debris When we launch a satellite, the first stage of the rocket to go ten kilometers in altitude The last stage but then it also stays in orbit itself The upper stages of a rocket, are systematically left in orbit. Over the last 60 years, while some has disintegrated. Working alongside the European Noelia Sanchez Ortiz and the destiny of orbital debris. We used to put objects in space, and we think that we can leave them there. Therefore, it remains there and it slowly falls down into the earth. At low altitudes, debris moves at speeds but the earth's atmosphere When pieces eventually fall to earth, The air molecules are compressed which creates heat causing the pieces to break up. During the day there is little to see, this burning waste Problems arise when this debris does not burn up In 1997, the 550 pound fuel tank crashed near Georgetown in Texas. In 2001, landed 150 miles In 2011, the nosecone of a Soyuz rocket and in 2013, several titanium tanks of an electrician in Texas. So far, nobody has been killed, In September 2016, crashed into an outbuilding It seems that sometimes Since orbital debris poses a threat it is now cataloged We have entered into 10-20,000 objects Only a minor portion of those but most of them remain there that makes them go down. They will stay there for some time. Since all rocket launches are monitored, it is relatively easy to know All the satellites and debris That's the mass of the Eiffel Tower. In the vast area that is space, an Eiffel Tower's worth of small, is more like a cloud of dust. Therefore, in order to show we need to enlarge them. In real life, The suburbs of our planet surrounded by circulating waste, but the suburbs are nonetheless organized. Satellites around our Earth Furthest from the Earth a thin layer 22,000 miles away. Satellites in this orbit remain constantly and provide our telecommunications, telephone, computer link-ups, Each satellite With space at a premium, satellites need to be removed Their last fuel reserves are used Here, the satellite has moved higher further from Earth, Below geostationary orbit situated between 22,000 This vast zone is occupied If one of these satellites breaks down, where it will not interfere Finally, the closest orbit to Earth and is situated This is where the last 60 years have left the most debris. The only way is to send it into Earth's atmosphere There are different areas on Earth with almost no risk For example, that is very big and where we tend If the satellite still has fuel, it is possible to control its movements as long as it is still functioning, but some satellites even if they still have fuel. One of the problems is that from time to time they break down They worked on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and we've had no warning. There's been no sign Satellite operators for fear of losing credibility, yet most failures are caused by nature When we analyze the cause it can, for example, During solar storms, that disperses Earth's electromagnetic field protecting us from particles but satellites are like sitting ducks. Solar radiation is capable and despite being protected it is estimated are destroyed each year by solar flares, Space is an infinite empty space some debris that is moving about up there, that poses two significant problems. First, when they are up there, An object at an altitude of 600 miles, will stay there for 1,000 or 2,000 years. Second, because they are in orbits, so the probability of crashing is actually quite high. Until 2007, experts tracked but since then, two events have caused One involved Cosmos 2251, that suddenly malfunctioned. The Russians could no longer and were unable to deorbit it to Earth. In a perpendicular trajectory a brand new American satellite The impact sent debris Around a thousand pieces and thousands of smaller fragments posing a threat This collision proves is a danger to all working satellites. Another event worthy of Star Wars took place when China decided to deliberately that was no longer in use. Using a ballistic missile and a warhead, it was an arrogant show of strength with no concern for the consequences. Everybody talked about this Chinese event as a test to demonstrate It was made on purpose of the current risk we have now. As a result of these two events, by 2010, there were more than 17,000 large pieces and some of these pieces but from rockets. In the fuel tank of a normal rocket you have one chamber with liquid oxygen I'm sure you remember from school it become nitrous oxide and it explodes. That's what happens again Not all the fuel is used to the last drop. This reserve fuel mixes, and instead you have 1,000 pieces of debris Like a pandemic, this junk proliferates This phenomenon In honor of the NASA consultant and quantified it. We currently have enough objects once every ten years, and create a major breakup. Don Kessler proposed the scenario Since then, Like the Cosmos Iridium collision About every five years, between some large object to also produce some debris. Don Kessler also predicted that the collisions where each collision increases The issue becomes when this happens, and hit the satellite that are very numerous in number that those can go on and because they're traveling so fast Then you also produce that will go on and break that satellite up. Therefore, you have this slow, This theory was proven accurate in 1996 when debris from an Ariane rocket crossed paths with a French military knocking out a ten-foot stabilization boom and causing Cerise and so the pandemic spreads. Non-functioning satellites have created clouds of debris traveling around the world hitting working satellites This proliferation could endanger It's easy to forget that satellites We expect to open our mobile phones, and ask our mobile phones and which is the best way to go there. On traveling, we take money from a bank. We are using telecommunication satellites to our bank in Europe. It's hard to imagine life bank cards, or GPS systems. Nowadays, we wouldn't live long Yet the proliferation of debris risks compromising today's constantly Therefore, all space agencies each time they launch including the European Space Agency. If we are waiting for a situation is completely empty, Therefore, believe it or not, of having conjunctions with objects there would never be The risk is now proven The odds of losing a satellite Part of it The other parts are simple. There is complicated hardware causing the satellite to be lost, but the likelihood of losing a satellite with the increase in orbital debris. The European Space Agency estimates will rise to 20 percent by 2038. One out of every five satellites It's a huge figure. Space agencies have had to look at ways and detecting the circling waste. Since 1957, the United States has been using to predict where and when orbital debris They have established a catalog and use this to determine that is entering the atmosphere. They can also warn NASA of interfering with their satellites. Over time, as the number of artificial objects this system but in Europe, was not put in place until 40 years later. In 1996 when debris from the Ariane rocket the French Ministry of Defense The GRAVES system, is the main sensor that orbit around as long as they are large In other words, if they are the size To detect the orbiting satellites even when it's cloudy, that makes real-time calculations and anticipate the trajectories The GRAVES system was able to detect 30 and American spy satellites Today, international relations in space and an extension of those on the ground. In other words, as there is competition France agreed to keep quiet but in return, to their orbital debris catalog. This catalog is considerably more detailed since the Americans can detect objects We deal with the problem of small objects that allows us to retrieve information This constant space surveillance and military satellites If there is a risk, ground-based operators slightly out of their orbit. These maneuvers happen particularly for the largest satellite the International Space Station. This inhabited satellite is threatened To avoid orbital debris the space station In 2012, it avoided a piece of debris and Cosmos satellites In 2014, the space station was forced This constant threat has become part The space station is on a collision course as we've heard from the ground. My watch is beeping as a warning. We have to take the ISS For this, we have to turn on the engines and that is actually the only time or feel any acceleration on board. Suddenly we are no longer weightless, but we are pushed backwards Let's start now. There it goes. My football stopped, Sometimes the ballistic data in which case no risks are taken and the astronauts are told They take refuge in the escape module, which can be separated from the station However, evacuation Frequently, orbital debris is not detected Nowadays there are millions of pieces to be followed by radars. In order to avoid this menace, need to be protected. In Freiburg, Germany, scientists from the Fraunhofer Institute using a super fast accelerator This space gun fires tiny metal balls This series of chambers They are filled with light gases at the same speed as orbital debris, At this speed, the behavior of collisions during a car crash, for instance. When a car hits a wall it is deformed and thousands of pieces of debris However, at hypervelocity, a collision creates In high-velocity impact, Parts of it are vapourized and ionized and the other parts can't withstand which we have after the shockwave. In hypervelocity, a one-millimeter ball has more energy than a baseball Reinforced doors protect the laboratory. The high-speed camera, which films more records the moment of impact. As a safety precaution, while the space gun is being fired. The results of these tests are then analyzed. For the International Space Station, but we also tried to test the components or components like tanks, which are located Using ultra-slow motion images, and model what happens during a collision. Their work allows them that are both light They have just proved that doubling can protect satellite components The first layer fragments the debris. The second dissipates its energy Thanks to these experiments, scientists have been able that are resistant to small debris. However, even today, when they are outside their vehicles They remain exposed to small debris or seen by the human eye Even a minor impact and lead to instant death. Due to this risk, NASA is actively developing robots to accomplish maintenance operations Even the robots with debris of more than half an inch. Obviously, Countries around the world for the non-proliferation of large debris as they have done For example, satellite operators are asked to empty All rockets are equipped with systems a system that is tested on the ground Satellites are limited Finally, objects in low earth orbit are steered towards broad ocean areas However, these rules particularly since there is no and as time passes, We're generating debris faster than it can be cleaned out and that's what we refer to There's only one real solution clean out the debris Well, you have to bring back that we've left in orbit. Based on the polluter pays principle, each country is supposed to finance Since 2013, space engineers have been creating The idea is to come up that can deal with large pieces of garbage the Earth's atmosphere. However, it's a difficult task since orbital debris moves spinning around Around the world, laboratories have been coming up that could capture debris and de-orbit it. That's what they're working on at the Surrey Space Centre in England. In a real mission, you'll be dealing that may be spinning. Space engineers used technical terms, but their projects One of the technologies It seems unlikely capable of attaching to a piece of debris In our mission, the remove debris mission, the thing we're actually testing of the harpoon on an actual target plate. The team is still where it is testing a miniature harpoon First attempt. Three, two, one, fire! Failed. The harpoon did not leave its sheath Second attempt. Hopefully, the harpoon where you want it to hit. Three, two, one, fire! Failed again. If the harpoon does not hit the middle According to scientists, hunting debris Hopefully, when that goes into space the alignment should be much better The trial and error method but step by step, The first full-scale tests in space The harpoon is not the only tool The South Africa Space Agency has come up that it hopes to market later. One of their projects capable of unfolding its tentacles Medusa will enclose the debris move it to where it needs to be, or to decrease the altitude and eventually toss this debris back and let it burn up at the reentry. Another advantage of Medusa satellites, they can be launched directly Medusa is very light. It's about 175g. It is designed to be put onto CubeSats, A CubeSat is a small multi-use satellite developed by a Californian university. Dozens of them can be launched at a time It's a godsend for researchers who have no other way Coupled with CubeSats Medusa should be able to eliminate debris At the moment, there are a lot A lot of them are one use The uniqueness of Medusa so the idea is to use it as many times However, the drawback with Medusa For large non-functioning satellites, which opens up the problem Unfortunately, none of these solutions Nobody is ready to pay the high price necessary The bigger it is, because any damage creates more junk. The largest non-operational piece the size of a bus by the European Space Agency. At the time, the agency was trying to get but today, Rudiger Jehn distances himself They just want to maximize the revenue, they use the last drop of fuel rather than using the fuel for deorbiting, and this is the problem. When it was built, it was the largest After five years of activity it should have been deorbited. The operators However, ten years after being launched, lost all control of Envisat Today, it is a ticking time bomb as it crosses paths The situation is so critical is funding an ambitious program to try We believe that throwing a net because throwing a net means you will later have and that means the captured Envisat To test this spacenet, to recreate At the top of its parabolic flight it releases passengers and objects Enough time to test they will use to catch Tests have proved that adding weight allows it to enclose the body without snagging Now all they have to do that can retrieve Envisat Envisat is eight tons, certainly more heavy When you have to remove something it's better to pull than to push Though it is essential for space safety, even this project for one simple reason. We have investigated the problem but it would cost half a billion Euros. For technical and economic reasons, no robot garbage collector For this to become workable, the clean-up operation as if it were a passenger What seems to be quite promising The space tug would be multifunctional, On Monday, it would refill a satellite. On Tuesday, it would repair another. On Wednesday, On Thursday, it would do maintenance. On Friday it would return to Earth and it would gather up and send it into the atmosphere. However, according to the Airbus engineers some technological problems remain. What we cannot do at the moment with a target that has not been designed For example, an old satellite A space rendezvous is an organized between two space devices. We need to develop that can manage on their own. They would be based on vision sensors and analyze the contents This data analysis that interest us and manipulate them. The space tug project but thanks to major funding, may come into use by 2025. As well as the European Space Agency space tugs already have other new clients. Ambitious startups hope to send thousands to create a network that will provide These projects, became a reality in 2017 One visionary entrepreneur managed as well as European Airbus, to make massive investments of a series OneWeb has designed, is building, a constellation of satellites and provide high-speed broadband access the four billion people In the initial constellation, This is almost as many as all the working and this large number for orbital debris specialists. There are many new mega-constellations There's OneWeb, We're talking about 1,000 satellites Boeing, and SpaceX, who have new ideas In the end, it will all be space debris, Where is this all this going? Yet the promoters maintain that they have taken There are some things and create some regulatory environment so that the deorbit consistent with the long-term use of space There's also the danger that space if there are failures. There are satellites that break down, and that's my concern, It is well known that wherever people go, In order to avoid international regulations There is hope. Most of the people are advocating for it. We're concerned there is no global body It's a bunch of different groups a bunch of different countries about regulation The solution from the United Nations legislating in cleaning up the space debris. While waiting for space orbital debris is a major concern Although few people on Earth our lives could be spinning