So, is manifestation just toxic positivity it can get more complicated than that because which is ultimately going to set you back. toxic positivity is, what manifestation two things are different and when they actually Chapter One: What is toxic positivity? a &quot;just be happy&quot; mindset, no matter what is the context. They're not taking into consideration feel emotions. Toxic positivity ends up coming off they don't care and they just want to plug their humanity. It's insisting on maintaining a positive really dire. So, if you had a death in the family up,&quot; that's a really tone-deaf thing to say. for a while. A healthy person who's not engaging &quot;You're going through a really hard time right sad. You're gonna feel sad for a while. That's process, and you need to feel it, otherwise, you sad in the face of something as terrible as what the long run. That is what a healthy person would trying to cheer up somebody, they'll just say, I'm gonna feel sad. My dog died. What are you it's not okay. The dog's dead. What are you doing? not valid. And when I say your feelings are that way. That is what they're saying. Don't feel end up feeling more guilt or shame or frustration about my dog? Like, do I need to get over it?&quot; let's talk about manifestation. My which is also known as the Law of Attraction, focused thought and intention. A key part outlook. It is believing that you are capable of visualizing yourself achieving what you want to in order to get to this point where you believe, have a positive outlook on what you're trying people will lean into a toxic positive mindset some of the key ways people stay positive when and through telling themselves affirmations. A lot push through your doubt and your resistance to reminding yourself what's going right, which which is the affirming. But manifestation Before we talk about when manifestation becomes really quickly. My name is Charlotte, and I am on and I'm all about being a work in progress. I think I'm pretty insightful, and I think I can this content to sort of hold myself accountable like something you might be interested in, I and if you're not there yet, maybe leave out some of my other content. If I also post pretty regularly on Instagram regardless, thank you so much for being **Chapter Three: When does Toeing this line becomes about the balancing act to be positive. It's about being gentle with feeling unpleasant emotions, whether or whatever it could be, is not a failure. It's these emotion tornadoes that are not abrasive because that never works. That always backfires. to you, so I'm going to throw some stuff A really common thing people try to manifest is a as a specific person or SP. A specific person may but for this circumstance, we will just people have when they're trying anxiety, feeling unattractive, feeling unworthy, you because you haven't found the person you're but how you go about addressing those A toxic positivity route would be ignoring your to manifest my SP,&quot; or &quot;Feeling sad is going to simply emotional suppression, and that is going to stress, emotional burnout, and internal conflict. &quot;I'm feeling sad and anxious right now. These and that's okay,&quot; or &quot;It is totally normal to feel because it is a hard thing to do, especially the problem here. These feelings are normal Another way people might engage in toxic themselves with affirmations that do not actually affirmation is something like, &quot;I'm happy and sad and discouraged, your subconscious is going Instead, you want to come up with affirmations up. Instead of &quot;I'm happy and everything's but I've felt hope before,&quot; or, even Most people go through waves when trying to then they're discouraged, and they go moods around us. It's part of our journey Another toxic positive way that people be to criticize how they're manifesting this a lot online. So if you say, real manifesters don't get sad,&quot; that's that's criticizing yourself. Everyone gets sad. and you're putting this pressure on yourself you. I'm thinking about making a video about One way I try to soothe myself is by thinking situation. I know it's such cliche advice, but this exact situation many, many times with friends had any luck finding someone who's stuck in their hopelessness. They're like, &quot;This is terrible. I for me.&quot; I will say to them, because I've been in that I felt that way too, and I'll believe in you're going to find someone, and I know you don't need.&quot; I'll hold on to that hope for you right taking the effort that goes into feeling hope affirmation of, &quot;I'll feel hopeful again,&quot; because to feel hopeful, and that's okay. That's The goal with manifestation is to find sustainable long term, and that's ultimately going to have most of the time, and that's going to change and change your outcomes. If you're trying toxic. That is not going to help you in the long feeling some sort of strong, unpleasant emotion,