For years now I have seen this crazy they promote as a metal repair glue. AliExpress which is a Chinese online weirdest and also sometimes super useful products. product from there is really a hidden gem or And today I got 6 more intriguing so that I can tell you at the end or stay away from them. This video is sponsored by Keysights new HD3 because its User Interface is designed for touch features a super low 50uV noise floor helping 1.3 Million waveform per second update rate, zone triggering, fault hunter and so much win a custom HD3 assembly brick kit, sign up now Now let's get started with the metal For comparison; my so far favorite comes with 33g, costs around 2 times as much. glue because I had to join these two metal pieces But if you are like me and not good at that, not forget that such a welder with all So maybe this glue can do this job as well and put the paste all around the for 48 hours just like the And I got to say that the first impression rip the metals apart by brute force. bond meaning this can certainly Because when it comes to even bad welds much nothing and we need something like an And for comparison I tried the same test with only way more liquid like while applying, but And for the last test I wanted to see whether and I can in fact confirm that you can paint it without anything cracking around the hole. stuff and I feel like having some lying around Moving on; I got myself this ,,across the No; in reality it is a Touch The biggest advantage of it is By that they mean that you can place this thing touch to turn on or off an LED strip. it can switch 5A at 12V or 2.5A at 24V Luckily for me I got this 24V LED that draws a total of around 1.7A. to a 24V power supply and the LED strip to As it turns out the power supply meaning that after stitching on a Now you can press the sensor to either for a longer time to dim the brightness The next question is what material thickness 18mm thick piece of wood was no problem So of course this system worked as well and I can kind of see the appeal of using Last but not least I of course also had a look with the quality of the PCB that features an unlabeled MOSFET that acts as a power switch. it should work just fine with a max current of 5A. certainly recommend if you are in Next we come to the topic of soldering with my soldering station here. it comes to desoldering such small SMD I mean yes; I could of course use But to more selectively remove to use something like hot tweezers. for my station, but they are quite expensive. station from AliExpress for a price of around 37EUR. quality and you get quite a few And after powering it up, it set which the station reached within 17s. station, but still good enough. that the temperature value was just right So next I of course did some various testing with have to admit that I am not the biggest fan. quick beast when it comes to But I kind of doubt that most of them can not be really used for precision work. tweezers then this station is not bad since the whole thing is properly earthed. to hot air or even hot plates to remove Moving on to this rather small USB C Display that you can get for around 2.5EUR. cables are the ones that comes with a display. exactly how much power my hooked up whether for example fast charging is activated. a new USB C PD standard that can do up to 240W. with this thing; but also to be able to turn the latter thing I can already confirm. display cable, I can also say that even comes with an additional decimal place. powerbank setup here which as you can see, It is not 240W though because there are simply and since 140W and 240W are basically the So let's finally test thing and just as expected going above the 100W mark, So let's continue with this Mini Torque Wrench But I really needed one because so far I did all any idea how much torque I applied which But when you are working with currents above right torque so that the contact resistance So according to the given manual, I which is in range of what So I plugged in batteries, turned it on and peak mode in which the biggest applied in which I can set a specific torque and All in all very easy to operate, the only thing But anyway, in my garage I set the wrench to And after tightening a few dozens screws I have Now of course the quality of the wrench itself that come with a lifetime warranty; no joke. try an analog torque wrench in comparison, value as the digital one, nice. just fine and I would recommend it if you And just like that we come to the last let me tell you that before using a level to position things on a wall or similar. thingy, I simply build it up using a tripod that I got a perfectly horizontal and vertical level This makes building stuff or attaching problem is that my setup here is rather expensive. AliExpress which only costs around 23EUR. quality with its lovely made aluminium housing But after turning it on, I noticed that it because here we basically got a digital spirit In comparison my old laser But anyway, the projected laser lines meaning next it was time for a proper testing After fine adjusting I have to say though that even when that everything should be perfectly level, the I mean it is still in spec when using a proper incorrectly here; but I feel this solution me meaning I have to give it a thumbs down And with that being said, we come to the end that we found quite a few hidden Gems which I As always I hope you enjoyed this video. subscribe and hit the notification bell.