Hello everybody! Welcome to the movie you've Minions. No. Well we're still waiting for that one, but this is one we've been waiting This in fact, is my favorite movie. This has all of the minions lore we were watching Despicable Me This is going to answer all of our questions Yeah! What are they made of? Do they have bones? Both: What are they eat? And are they actually invincible? And how many genocides they committed. Yeah we'll get to that later. Let's get into this! [Universal Studios Logo Music] [Distortion] Oh this is already a good start! Bren: Woah it's a single cell organism. Wow guys this is actual proof No you know what this is? This is Bubble Tanks from the So they're slowly evolving... Why didn't they keep evolving? They reached peak physical form! Obviously. The ideal being. I don't know who looked at my ankles and thought &quot;this is where evolution should stop&quot; Yeah, at minions. Jude: My God, who enabled RTX on Every illumination movie kinda looks It all looks like PS4 concept footage like when everything had to be really Boss! How do they know the word boss if They invented english! The minions invented english? They don't speak english, they They just said the word &quot;boss&quot; Yeah it's like a combination it's like all the romantic languages plus [Explosion] This is how the dinosaurs went extinct. Yeah- minions. As we're seeing right now, the minions every single major event in world history. So the minions traveled back in time... We're adding time travel to this? We might as well. Did they build the pyramids, If they're about to build the No the minions owned slaves... Yeah I'm not big on the whip here. Ok so, they built the pyramids- Did they? It looks like they No see they have the blueprints for it. The minions made the pyramid in They bounced from one evil boss to another, but they never seemed to find their perfect fit [Laughs] You might have found a good Yeah, that's what we're getting to. The minions had no other This is how they explain this, during recent history they were just Yeah that's what they were doing. This sounds like typical history rewriting, to hide the true terror of the minions [Gibberish] I like the idea of the minions being Like the minions themselves wanted to take back Jerusalem. [Laughs] [Christmas Music] Why is it Christmas? Because there's snow? I guess? Yeah so they're very conveniently left Yeah! Because, you know- probably don't want to like They should have, I want to know about &quot;The south would have won if The minions were like part of the confederacy. Running across the fields of [Laughs] There was so much to do in the 20th There was about 15 regimes they could have killed for. Where did they get the metal They were born with the goggles. Jude: It doesn't &quot;lens&quot; at all. Josiah: Their eyes are just in the front of the goggles. [Grunts] I hate that. What happens if you take the You remove their eyes. [Motivating Gibberish] Why does bob have two different colored eyes? So you know which one he is. He was in the war, Bren. Okay, why does he have two different eyes? He was in the war. That's Which war? All of them, apparently. The minions were involved with every war. Wasn't in World War II... Every war prior to 1861 roughly. [Mountain Climbing Gibberish] What? Did they Skyrim-horse themselves up the mountain? Go around it! They are on a journey to find their new boss, and the new boss could have been Can't wait for them to like stumble into [Boat Horn] [Gasp] [Music] Hey look! it's modern-day New York City! I mean it's not quite modern day. Who is Richard Nixon in the Despicable This is a documentary. It's like the lizard people that So they've been in a cave since the Napoleonic wars, and came out in 1968 and Jude you have to remember they're time In this movie the minions just kind of All they care about's finding a boss, they don't Hello! Why does the leather need to look this hyper What? Why? Um, it's because this is real life Jude. They filmed this in 1968. I told you, it's a documentary. Where's the interviews from the minions? That's the narration. [Sneeze] Bob! Silly Bob! Come here! What gets me a little bit more is no one is like Wouldn't they be in like US history Wouldn't it be a big deal that they ...And then when the world What part of the world needed them the most Bren? Northern Europe? TV Host: Oh, that was a nuclear bomb. Yeah exactly. Why are you broadcasting to television? It's a secret channel that you have to- You can only access this channel by You just have to happen to do whatever "this" [Laughs] Announcer: Scarlet Overkill! It's like a wrestler entrance. "The Undertaker" This is basically where the Despicable Where all the villains are just wrestling characters Stuff like that. TV Host: Get to VillainCon this weekend! Only in Orlando Florida? No better place, at all. Let me do it, better. Would you pick up the minions I'd run them over. [Laughs] I would be just really confused. Jude: Okay... [Vine Boom] Glad we came along before I'm still confused as to why These like three jaundiced orbs are "The Jaundice Orb" Even if you knew them from history, you know they're always associated with Unless they they've been just [Alarm] I can't wait to rob the "BANK" It could be the First 1st Financial Bank I think there was like brand name banks in the 60s No one in their right mind I mean it was before security But like the police would just shoot you. You know there were phones "Orlando: coming soon" No that looks like orlando Yeah flat- -and awful Wasn't disney here by 1968? Or like a Any evil talents? Bob: La-la-la-la-la Eh? That's not evil or a talent. So that kind of shows that the They're just invincible, Gru can just kind of chuck They're durable that's all that Announcer: VillianCon present our keynote speaker, Announcer: Scarlet Overkill! If you announce her name in It's the late 60s, they say everything like that. Announcer: The world's first female supervillain! "First female supervillain", really? Bonnie and Clyde are shaking right now. See there's been female villains, but Ah, what makes her super? uh... When everyone's super... ...no one will be What if I were to tell you that How convenient for the minions They went from like Europe to New York to Orlando and just ended up here at VillainCon. A lot It's because they they have a sense for evil Yeah the sense drew them to New York, which it probably should have in the 60s. And then it drew them then to Orlando, Florida which it probably should have in the 60s. Just take it from my hand and you've got the job. [Bob choking] That just like cut all of Yeah, for real invincible I guess. Minions don't have internal They're all mouth?! They're like a balloon, That's why they're so dumb. Buckle up boys. Next stop, England. Oh god not England... Gross! Ew... Anything but England. No wonder she's so evil, Josiah: I don't want to go to England! Why does she fly like a thumbtack? It's a lightning bolt with no wings- -oh and no cabin pressure. There is so much force that it How does this fly? 'Very tall.&quot; The thruster is on the back and it is going up... Uh, it flies like a star No you see that that lever- Also everything in this universe is so Oh look, it's Large Benjamin. I'm sure no one is noticing this thing in the sky. It's so thin that they can't see it. I can see it, I would have thought they would have gone the cloaking device and it looked like Oh Wow! Oh yeah that's so conspicuous! Her evil lair, with like an "S" on it. Is anything illegal? Nothing is illegal in Britain. So we say that there's a finite a lot more minions than that It's kind of like the train cars in Polar Express. They just keep appearing Oh god the tape deck room, It's the giant eurorack synth, What are you doing that's evil? Yeah, the &quot;H&quot; stands for HMUSIC Well remember synthesizers were thought Okay, okay so she wants to steal is that what we're getting at? Yes. Okay so she's gonna get away with that because... Um, the minions are gonna do it for her. So when she wears it, that's not a problem? Yeah, this movie is kind of weird Nothing really feels connected to each other. It's really convoluted and i feel Oh what if the minions were in New York? And then what if they were And then what if they were at london? It's just like a big run-on sentence of a plot. [Gibberish] This is the home of the Queen's crown I'ma be real, there's no way they just Enjoy yourself love. Gold bar... What is this? What century? This lady is like &quot;okay i'll just go sell this&quot; Buy gold it'll always hold this value Buy silver right now! Buy gold! Invest in Ethereum! it's a good thing the crown gets There's more gears doing more stuff. I have yelled the word &quot;gears&quot; in I guess the crown is not on She never needs it. [Ceremonial Music] Our editor hears this song and [Yelling] He is not about to pull up King Arthur's- Bob: Yeah! Tiny yellow traitor! Oh god she's gonna She's gonna stab him! That has like the integrity I don't know what that is. [Chanting] Why are they in australia? They landed in Sydney- wait a minute! Josiah: This is so real, this is so real! That's not how anything works! Thomas, draw a line on a map Oh my god... I knew it! I knew it was staged! It's literally a stage... [Laughing] No... that's a room! That is literally the definition of a stage. [Wilhelm Scream] Did I just hear a tiny Wilhelm Scream? Yeah cause one of them just. Poof! [Laughs] Wouldn't this make the airplane like crash? It sure would. I love this guy right here who does not But then there's that kid behind him he's like- [Yells] [Choir Singing] Okay. Why does King Arthur's Because that's how the legend goes. &quot;He who pulled the sword from the power of Thor&quot; The new flag being a single eye is so creepy. I would want to go to that country for sure. Even though king bob has two King Bob! [Cheering] Everyone loves him so much... To be fair if that was our head So we went from them needing a new Yeah we're about halfway Okay- [Mocking] vampires, and then they're gonna gonna go to London and then Bob's Like what?! It's like a little kid rambled for an Probably because the little kid that would ramble I prefer kids movies when they're like good. That's all I got I don't know We're watching an illumination Illumination more like illuminati nation- King Bob you cannot just abdicate He just sentenced a man to life in prison... King Bob has officially changed the law. How did you just do that without like support? Yeah well he pulled Excalibur from the I want like a millisecond paragraph parliamentary system works, and Poof! Really fast, right now. [Minions Singing] I'd rather watch a full instruction video on industrial equipment than i'm gonna put my head in that guillotine. I don't want you to take this [Laughs] Same. Nothing personal but you are the After they changed the law to make you the queen? He literally just gave you the country of England. "Hang Town", population? You! [Music] Movie ends right there. Kevin: Wha? What is that gonna do for They are a neck. No! You can't choke a minion. You would have to Why is it screwed in like that to where Yeah that's why these don't get hung ...Not the exact reason that minions but that gravity would slowly unscrew it. [Stammering] They were made specifically for There's so much tension in this scene I love it. [Minions Yelling] I'm really engaged right now, I'm Also this is isn't tense because so like what am I afraid of? So the two other minions got captured Bob? Stuart? Which one shall I kill first? What does she think she's Literally! Not a single minion has ever died. One according to the first Despicable Me movie They could survive in the vacuum of space. [Sighs] Computer: Ultimate Weapon Initiated Big minion! Big! Big minion! Okay, why is like all the skin in this super all the rest of the textures? like that [Music] Jude (as minion): Kevin! That is such an uncanny sight, just Especially since like his I can't wait for Cloverfield 3 with giant [Grunting] All the events that led up to this... Yeah, so we started with a t-rex, and now Queen of England with a giant minion This is so real. Scarlet: Enough! White flash- -the movie ends [Laughing] Just turns into like a little skeleton. [Explosion] Well you weren't wrong Jude... All right! Edit in the nuclear bomb please! You watch the minions just their They just all turn in the goop. Kevin the White, Okay this is kind of funny. I'm Jude's like "finally something I enjoy" And it ends. Immediately. Yeah the idea of the parachute every time it's about to land is kind of funny. [Music] Scarlet: Child, So is Minions: Rise of Gru Yeah so Minions: Rise of Gru actually unlike this movie where things Yeah, i give this movie like a score out of ten. It would have been fine if they like Then they were like "all of them" Just start the movie with Would have been better then, whatever that was. It needs to be a trilogy. It's probably going to be. They literally could have just Oh this is where they came from and they're and go on whatever the story is for Rise of Gru, Well if you want us to watch If you liked this, don't And don't forget to subscribe to see more minions. Have a day