A train is a simple thing at first glance: cars along a railroad. But not all those railcars if you take minute to notice their differences. engineering, but I thought, before I do that, we these cars have you spotted before? I'm Grady, and All trains have at least one locomotive from the front (called the head) or act as so-called distributed power somewhere but they deserve their own video, so today they push or pull. We'll start with and then talk about a few of the more unusual cars Unless you work in the railroad industry, ever get a chance to interact with. The you've probably seen the most of: aisle in Some coach cars can be disconnected and cars come in "train sets" that are Some passenger cars are bilevel, This can double the capacity of a car, because of height and weight restrictions time it takes to load and unload the cars Long-haul passenger trains may include a baggage an airliner. In most cases, they're designed although often with fewer windows since have a section for passengers Although tricky to identify from the outside, a essentially a rolling restaurant. These cars restaurant of the same name, many of which are routes even include a lounge car, a bar on If you're sleepy after dinner, you Open section cars have the beds in bunks modern sleeping cars have private rooms These days, especially in the US, passenger rail be the destination. Some passenger trains include A bulbous glass dome provides a panoramic observation cars are sometimes included at the end Of course, we can't forget crew cars. work aboard for operation, maintenance, and own quarters for breaks or sleep. Especially stretches of rail without stops at cities, a ready to swap when the working time Passenger trains are cool, of course, but There's just something awesome about seeing 100 tons move almost effortlessly huge variety of types of freight that move Boxcars are a common sight with their huge or forklift and accommodate a wide range protection from the elements. And they have is exactly what it sounds like: a giant usually feature a diesel-powered refrigeration If the goods being transported in a boxcar filling the car before coming close to its weight To maximize the use of a boxcar for lightweight Cubes. Not all railroads can fit such a so you might see the excess height to make sure it doesn't inadvertently end up If you want a train car full of cars, then carry consumer cars and trucks. Many have three Freight rail moves automobiles cheaper and each one individually from factories to trains pull autoracks as well, like and Orlando. You can take your car on your When it comes to freight cars, it doesn't get A simple name for a simple function: used for all sorts of cargo, especially hoist or crane and cargo that can handle cars used to transport heavy equipment or even see multiple flat cars outfitted Some flatcars feature bulkheads at the front and pipes, and wood products from shifting forwards Another flat car variant is the centerbeam wallboard and fencing. The central beam helps products higher. It also provides a place to Some centerbeam railcars hold enough Flatcars are also used for intermodal shipping, trucks, trains, and ships. Trailer-on-flatcar, or but it is a distinct use of one. A semi-trailer is and it's ready to connect back to a truck to be driven to its final destination. and it can be a cheaper alternative than Most intermodal freight these days comes in trucks, trains, and ships. Container-on-flatcar, simply a specialized use. The cast corners of to secure with latches or twist lock devices One of the great advantages of containerization stacked. An interbox connector slots between the you don't see double-stacked because of height restrictions and well cars recess the bottom of a container double-stack and making it safer at speed. Not made it possible to double-stack intermodal Coils of sheet metal are used in countless freight railroads fairly frequently in coil cars. and challenging to secure as well, so that's Many are covered with a hood to protect the Gondola (GON-dola) cars, or gon-DO-la, depending on where you live, are used for and coal. They're basically enormous wagons. the top with a crane or bucket. Some can a rotary dumper. Look for the different color Hopper cars are like gondolas in that they're and bottoms that funnel material so they can be can have open tops when carrying loads that aren't are used for cargo that needs protection Another option for unloading bulk goods is not very common to see. They're mostly rather than move and deliver This next car is very rare, but it's so cool I is a Schnabel car. There are actually two cars a heavy lift arm for truly enormous cargo, such as largest of these is used in the US to transport Tank cars are used to carry liquids there are plenty of variations, but in general, tank cars handle all kinds of liquids from that match their specific cargo needs, and they usually have a bottom outlet Pressurized cars are designed to transport These tanks have thicker walls and higher Pressurized cars always have protective housings some non-pressurized cars have them too, clues (or memorize the DOT classification for sure. Tank cars designed for hazardous features like reinforced ends called head the impacts of a derailment, and pressure relief I can't be totally comprehensive for this short freight railcar of it somewhere, but that should plus a few that you'd be really lucky to spot. things you'll see on the tracks. Non-revenue themselves. After all, building and maintaining and it takes a lot of interesting equipment to do railroad is different in the type of equipment Ballast is the name for the gravel bedding that pressure of trains to the subgrade, provides side-to-side, and facilitates drainage Ballast tampers shake and pack the ballast under has settled and sometimes correcting the rail brushes to distribute the ballast material evenly covering the ties. A ballast cleaner picks up all it on the tracks to improve its ability to drain Rail Grinders do just that: grind the irregularities that show up as rails wear down. A tie exchanger takes out the old ties and inserts A spiker drives the spikes that hold the rails heavy lifting along the rails where it might be railways in the north use a rotary snowplow during Sometimes you might see a work truck roads with an extra set of flanged vehicle also called hi-rail (since they can There's a whole host of hi-rail vehicles out you can imagine on the highway could find itself the only rail vehicle you'll have a chance of Railroads depend on large scales to measure the if you've got a scale, you need a way to calibrate play. These cars are basically rolling hunks of like a huge railroad version of the little weights A particularly rare car that you'd be They carefully measure the gauge, position, helping to ensure the safety and smoothness manual measurements of rail geometry, account for loading conditions since the And finally, bringing up the rear, but one you won't really see too much of any housed crewmembers who had a host of jobs, from to looking for damaged cars, dangling equipment, overheating bearings and axles. With the advent the role of the caboose was diminished on trains were relaxed. Today the last regular cargo car, but with a small device The most sophisticated versions monitor brake line relaying the information to the engineer at the that that's the whole train and there aren't any Trains are one of the most fascinating engineered right in the open for anyone to have a it's pretty satisfying to look for all up on the tracks, and in future videos, I'm inspired to keep your eye out, we put together the cars you've seen. It's linked below If you've watched my channel for any length make is connected to something you can see know I released a book about it: Engineering in Constructed Environment. And now, I'm launching Road Trip Bingo. Our brains have a stupendous that are hidden in plain sight, and road trips are Infrastructure Road Trip Bingo is just what it fellow passengers. Each sheet has 24 engineered trip. Some you're sure to spot. Some you might special detour. Get a line of 5 before anyone by the illustrator for my book, and there's a want to learn more about a particular square. of chances to play and win, and the squares Is this a silly idea? Of course it is. But, what you're enthusiastic about the built environment Publisher's Weekly best seller list, and it's a year later. So I wanted to give you a chance Infrastructure Road Trip Bingo goes on pre-sale shipping later this year. And if you still don't game for a huge discount as well. You can get it I signed every single copy in our warehouse. something fun and cool, and support what we're it. That link's in the description. Thank you