Early morning meal for working men in the market Super katsudon rush! Special Miso Katsu-don Beef and egg on rice The most popular menu! Highest. From the early morning 3:00 a.m. one-operator preparation Nishi Ward, Hiroshima City, Hiroshima Prefecture A small set menu restaurant in Hiroshima Central Market Established 2021 3:25 3:27 Making miso soup Kelp small dried sardines (e.g. sardines, mackerel, pike) make soup stock Chinese cabbage tofu bean sprouts Lye removal bean sprouts Carrots, radishes onion increase simmer miso tasting Chinese cabbage Miso soup is ready. Preparation of chashu pork Water cooking sake carrot onion ginger garlic leek (edible plant, Allium porrum) lye removal sugar soy sauce Preparing to cook rice When we opened, we had customers coming in at 5:00. Faster and faster Preparation of Kinpira Gobo carrot mirin soy sauce sugar chili pepper Kinpira gobo completed I was working on the buffet. I've put everything down into a recipe so that anyone can make the same thing. I used to look at it by the taste of that cook or something. This is not the time. 4:46 Tomato preparation Salad preparation Making pickles carrot rub with salt Homemade pickles Set meals come with a small bowl of pickles (I think it's been about 31 years. I think that's about right. In the schedule So in another seven years, we'll be on level ground. They just keep closing. Chicken thigh preparation (Staff) What's the daily special today? Fried Shiitake mushroom and lotus root with scissors I'm still coming out first, now. Today's daily special Rice is cooked Making rice balls salmon There are a lot of businessmen. I'm going back to the market for lunch. Kelp If you don't prepare it, you won't make it if you're alone. Making Ebi-ten (shrimp tempura) Ebi Tamago Toji Donburi (Bowl of rice topped with shrimp and egg) Cabbage, Mentshikatsu set meal, and so on. Chicken Nanban Set Meal is the best on weekdays! Chicken Nanban Set Meal is next to the daily set meal. The one that goes out to the public is Shrimp tempura completed Preparation for opening Open for business Curry udon Handmade lunch box take-out available 6:00 opening Total 17 seats Counter seats available 100 yen coffee seasoning corner Pork cutlet served on top of rice 620 yen Take-out special miso katsu-don: 550 yen Ichiba beef bowl 600 yen Miso soup A customer comes to the restaurant immediately. Free large rice and free refill! miso soup Making homemade chashu pork Homemade chashu pork set meal is completed. Here you go. Homemade Char-Shou Set Meal Two consecutive days. I'm hooked. Large serving from the beginning! I think it's delicious! It's a game meal at work. I'm definitely running at full capacity. Thank you very much. Very satisfied with the winning rice Two people wearing hats come to the store Good morning breaded pork cutlet on rice I wonder if salads are not a stand-alone item? Salad by itself There is a mixed salad. There's something called a mixed salad. Make a salad Make Chicken Nanban Set Meal and Katsudon (pork cutlet served on top of rice) Chicken Nanban set meal is completed. green onion (edible plant, Allium cepa) Pork cutlet served on top of a bowl of rice is completed. Thank you for your patience. Here you go. Bon appetit! 7:00AM, I'm going to eat a big meal and get ready. We mainly deal in rice from Hiroshima prefecture. Refills are available at the same price Good morning! Order a bowl of rice topped with beef and egg Free refill of rice for rice bowls! Regulars who work at the market and come in every day. 2:00 a.m. workday, waking up at 1:30 a.m. and going to work at 2:00 a.m. Katsu-don (pork cutlet served on top of a bowl of rice), curry udon, nabeyaki udon, and so on. and daily set menus Delicious food here! Miso soup is delicious. Recharge your energy with breakfast! 7:23 Making Omusubi and Kitsune Udon Age, wakame seaweed, green onion topping Provided in 2 minutes! Today's daily specials are handmade shiitake mushroom and lotus root A customer in work clothes comes to the store Making Katsu-don (pork cutlet served on top of a bowl of rice) Welsh onion (edible plant, Allium fistulosum) Pork cutlet served on top of a bowl of rice is completed. Here you go, sir. A big one. A pork cutlet is mixed with a thick, half-boiled egg. A man in work clothes comes to the store. Chicken Nanban set meal is ordered. Preparing set meal while frying Make sure it's cooked all the way through Finished with tartar sauce Sorry to keep you waiting Fried food before work is energizing! 10:45 Make a set meal of fried chicken No. 379 Customer for fried chicken set meal Ginger-yaki-don No. 381 Customer of ginger-yaki-don Making a daily set meal Handmade shiitake mushroom and lotus root fried with clams Here you go. Crispy, fried and delicious! Lunch box to take home completed I'm looking forward to the company meal. Number 84. No.383 Chicken Nanban set meal customer 10:58 Curry Udon Curry udon customers Making Katsu-don (pork cutlet served on top of a bowl of rice) breaded pork cutlet on rice A man in glasses comes to the store on a whim. Make a bowl of rice topped with ginger yaki onion Negi (Latin alphabet) Number 388, gingerbread bowl. Flat and beautifully finished! What do you recommend? That's the best one I've had. Fried shiitake mushroom and lotus root with clams Daily set meal completed Daily Set Meal Customers A customer of Katsudon! Katsu-don (pork cutlet served on top of rice) with large bowl of rice 620 yen Kari Juwatto Katsudon Thick pork cutlet is delicious! The rice goes on the strong taste. Today I had curry udon, omusubi and (Staff) How do you like our cabbage cutlets? It was delicious! Making lunch for 14 people Daily lunch box completed Can't wait for lunch time with my work mates! Chicken Nanban set meal with rice, large portion, 800 yen Small Diner Hilo's most popular menu The thick nanban sauce and tartar sauce are a perfect match! The taste of crispy and juicy rice Juicy and tender inside Seasoning that makes rice too much to eat With crispy kinpira gobo (burdock root) A hearty set meal! 6 people waiting outside Daily rush! 11:43 No. 404 Chashu-don customers Making Tuna Salad Bowl Tuna 405 Tuna Salad Bowl. No. 406 Customer of daily set meal 11:50 No. 407 Customer of the daily set meal Numbers 407 and 410. Making Chicken Nanban Set Meal Prepare rice and miso soup while frying Yes, welcome! Chicken Nanban Set Meal Customers Please take your time. Students working in the market It's insanely delicious! Best for. Special Miso Katsu-don Market beef bowl Cooking for 3 persons at once is completed. Number 418, customer for the daily set meal. Lunch break at work Order the daily set meal Looks so delicious! Looks too good to be true! Bon appetit! Lunch time in between work I have a company nearby, so I come here for lunch once in a while. Daily Set Lunch. I can only eat it on that day, so I'm a sucker for limited editions. daily special Thick shiitake mushrooms and crispy batter are a perfect match! Sometimes it's hard to get in. A very satisfying meal that will fill your stomach