- Anytime that you're who has their own interests and is trying to achieve their own ends, they are trying to do the best they can, given what they want; you're trying to do the best you can, given what you want, and so you're interacting 'Game theory' is a mathematical theory that attempts to make sense of how it is that people interact in - John von Neumann wrote called the &quot;Theory of Games&quot; with a guy named Oskar Morgenstern. And in there, he laid out game theory. And game theory is: &quot;The study of decision-making under conditions of - It was originally developed in economics in order to try and like why people buy certain things or why they're willing to But later on, it was expanded and applied to a variety of different situations, including biology, and even interpersonal and parenting and family relations. One of the things that game through recent study, has been interactions as 'zero-sum,' or competitive, are not as competitive as they seem. In situations like in the Cold War, which most people thought, that's gotta be a zero-sum we discovered that actually for mutual cooperation. Arms reduction treaties The U.S. and the USSR figured out that if they could find they could both save an enormous by reducing the number Reagan and Gorbachev with one another, and one of the big how can you be sure that while you're your adversary is also So rather than saying, &quot;We're just gonna get rid of our nuclear weapons and hope that the USSR would do so as well,&quot; they broke up the interaction into a bunch of little tiny ones. So, the USSR would eliminate then the U.S. would eliminate They would check, and to the next stage. And then each would eliminate a few more, and they'd go on to the next stage. This process of taking a big interaction and breaking it down can change a bad social dilemma into a positive interaction. What I do in my personal life and I think almost everyone is to try and think, 'In this interaction, what outcome would be And, 'How can we achieve that outcome?' And by thinking about we oftentimes transform like a situation where and there has to be a loser, into one where nobody and everybody benefits. - John von Neumann-based game theory on a stripped down version of poker. - In any given poker with a lot of uncertainty and it's all about how in any given moment- and that's so integral to life. Everything we try to do, you know, 'Should we take this route or that route?' 'Should I go here on vacation or there?' It's all about dealing with uncertainties and probabilities of things happening- and poker is a very fun and easy way to teach someone how to do that. First rule of thumb is how or chips from your opponent and how to lose the minimum You're never going to be are you beating them or So, you have to sort that is mathematically The most damaging bias and I also think very often in life, is the 'Sunk cost fallacy.' Where you'll have a lot of chips, perhaps almost all of your and yet, you are 85% to 90% confident that you have the worst hand. Putting another chip in the pot but we'll often go to ourselves, &quot;Ah, well, I've gone this far. I've put this much in. I might as well see it But if you have very strong information that actually, from this point onwards, putting more money in then you shouldn't. But we have this belief that, &quot;Well, I've put this much that we should continue on.&quot; That can be very, very costly. Once you start paying attention once it's on your radar, you'll probably notice that you wish you were doing differently. Those might be small-scale. In my case, I'm now much more that I've realized I'm not enjoying and not getting any value out of, rather than trudging dutifully of the book just because These changes might also be large-scale. For example, I was in a Ph.D. program, and, at a certain point, realized that I wasn't happy in this field, and would probably be And that the only reason as long as I had was because of my fear of confronting the sunk that I'd spent preparing And sometimes it really does take time to fully acknowledge to yourself that you don't have any good reason to stick with the job or Ph.D. or project that you've because sunk costs are painful. But at least having the sunk means that you have the to push past that and make the choice that instead will lead for your future. - Game theory spent much of its early days analyzing zero-sum games, where one party's gonna win and to trying to figure out What game theorists have figured out is that in zero-sum games, the best strategy to a sophisticated opponent which minimizes your maximum loss. This is sometimes called So the idea is you think, &quot;What's the worst-case scenario for me? What could my opponent do And then you figure out, &quot;What's the best strategy against that?&quot; So you're minimizing your maximum loss. Game theorists proved that if minimizing your maximum no matter how sophisticated you've guarded against And not only that, but in zero-sum games, you've done the best you can possibly do. - Get smarter, faster with videos from the world's biggest thinkers. To learn even more from the get Big Think+ for your business.