I'm going to tell you a little bit I woke up the morning with the worst vulnerability And I actually didn't leave my house The first time I left And when I walked in, I sat down, and she said, I said, &quot;Thanks. I feel really -- I'm not functioning.&quot; And she said, &quot;What's going on?&quot; And I said, &quot;I just told 500 people that I became a researcher And that when being vulnerable as absolutely essential I told these 500 people I had a slide that said 'Breakdown.' At what point did I think (Laughter) And she said, &quot;I saw It was not really you. It was a little different But it was great.&quot; And I said, &quot;This can't happen. YouTube, they're putting And we're going to be talking (Laughter) And she said, And I said, &quot;Let me ask you something.&quot; And she said, &quot;Yeah.&quot; I said, &quot;Do you remember really wild and kind of dumb?&quot; She said, &quot;Yeah.&quot; I said, &quot;Remember when on our ex-boyfriend's answering machine? Then we'd have to break into his dorm room (Laughter) And she goes, &quot;Uh... no.&quot; (Laughter) Of course, the only thing &quot;Yeah, me neither. Yeah -- me neither.&quot; And I'm thinking to myself, &quot;Brene, what are you doing? Why did you bring this up? Have you lost your mind? Your sisters would be perfect for this.&quot; (Laughter) So I looked back up and she said, &quot;Are you really going to try before they put it on YouTube?&quot; (Laughter) And I said, &quot;I'm just thinking (Laughter) She said, &quot;You're like the worst (Laughter) Then I looked at her and I said something that at the time felt a little dramatic, but ended up being &quot;If 500 turns into 1,000 or 2,000, my life is over.&quot; (Laughter) I had no contingency plan (Laughter) And my life did end when that happened. And maybe the hardest part is that I learned something and that was that, as much as I would be frustrated about not being able to get there was a part of me to engineer staying small, staying right under the radar. But I want to talk There's two things The first is: vulnerability is not weakness. And that myth is profoundly dangerous. Let me ask you honestly -- and I'll give you this warning, I'm trained as a therapist, so I can out-wait you uncomfortably -- so if you could just raise your hand how many of you honestly, when you're thinking about doing think, &quot;God, vulnerability is weakness.&quot; How many of you think of vulnerability The majority of people. Now let me ask you this question: This past week at TED, how many of you, thought it was pure courage? Vulnerability is not weakness. I define vulnerability as emotional risk, exposure, uncertainty. It fuels our daily lives. And I've come to the belief -- this is my 12th year that vulnerability is our most accurate to be vulnerable, to be honest. One of the weird things that's happened I got a lot of offers to speak everyone from schools and parent meetings to Fortune 500 companies. And so many of the calls went like this, &quot;Dr. Brown, we loved your TED talk. We'd like you to come in and speak. We'd appreciate it if you wouldn't mention (Laughter) What would you like for me to talk about? There's three big answers. This is mostly, to be honest with you, innovation, creativity and change. (Laughter) So let me go on the record and say, vulnerability is the birthplace (Applause) To create is to make something There's nothing more vulnerable than that. Adaptability to change The second thing, in addition to really the relationship between the second thing I learned, is this: We have to talk about shame. And I'm going to be When I became a &quot;vulnerability researcher&quot; and that became the focus and I'm not kidding. I'll give you an example. About three months ago, buying goggles and shin guards and all the things that parents buy About from a hundred feet away, &quot;Vulnerability TED! Vulnerability TED!&quot; (Laughter) (Laughter ends) I'm a fifth-generation Texan. Our family motto is &quot;Lock and load.&quot; I am not a natural So I'm like, just keep walking, she's on my six. (Laughter) And then I hear, &quot;Vulnerability TED!&quot; I turn around, I go, &quot;Hi.&quot; She's right here and she said, &quot;You're the shame researcher (Laughter) At this point, parents are, like, (Laughter) &quot;Look away.&quot; And I'm so worn out I look at her and I actually say, &quot;It was a fricking spiritual awakening.&quot; (Laughter) (Applause) And she looks back and does this, &quot;I know.&quot; (Laughter) And she said, &quot;We watched your TED talk in my book club. Then we read your book 'The Breakdown Babes.'&quot; (Laughter) And she said, &quot;Our tagline is: 'We're falling apart (Laughter) You can only imagine what it's like (Sighs) So when I became Vulnerability TED, like an action figure -- Like Ninja Barbie, I thought, I'm going to leave because I spent six years studying shame before I started writing And I thought, thank God, no one wants to talk about it. It's the best way to shut &quot;What do you do?&quot; &quot;I study shame.&quot; &quot;Oh.&quot; (Laughter) And I see you. (Laughter) But in surviving this last year, I was reminded of a cardinal rule -- not a research rule, but a moral imperative &quot;you've got to dance And I did not learn about vulnerability and courage and creativity and innovation from studying vulnerability. I learned about these things And so I want to walk you in to shame. Jungian analysts call shame And we're going to walk in. And the purpose is not to walk in and construct a home and live there. It is to put on some galoshes -- and walk through and find our way around. Here's why. We heard the most compelling call ever and I think globally, around race, right? Yes? We heard that. Yes? Cannot have that conversation Because you cannot talk about race And when people start they get paralyzed by shame. We heard a brilliant simple solution which is, have a checklist. You can't fix that problem because when they teach they also teach them to being all-powerful. And all-powerful folks And I had to write down so I didn't mess it up here. Myshkin Ingawale, I hope I did right by you. (Applause) I saw the TED Fellows my first day here. And he got up and he explained some technology to help test for anemia, because people were dying unnecessarily. And he said, &quot;I saw this need. So you know what I did? I made it.&quot; And everybody just burst into applause, And he said, &quot;And it didn't work. (Laughter) And then I made it 32 more times, and then it worked.&quot; You know what the big secret about TED is? I can't wait to tell people this. I guess I'm doing it right now. (Laughter) This is like the failure conference. (Laughter) No, it is. (Applause) You know why this place is amazing? Because very few people here And no one who gets on the stage, I've failed miserably, many times. I don't think the world understands that, because of shame. There's a great quote by Theodore Roosevelt. A lot of people refer to it And it goes like this: &quot;It is not the critic who counts. It is not the man who sits and points out how the doer of deeds and how he falls and stumbles. The credit goes to the man in the arena whose face is marred But when he's in the arena, at best, he wins, and at worst, he loses, but when he fails, when he loses, he does so daring greatly.&quot; And that's what this conference, Life is about daring greatly, When you walk up to that arena and you think, &quot;I'm going in shame is the gremlin who says, &quot;Uh, uh. You're not good enough. You never finished that MBA. I know your dad really he was in Sing Sing. I know those things I know you don't think that you're pretty, smart, I know your dad never paid attention, Shame is that thing. And if we can quiet it down and walk in and say, &quot;I'm going to do this,&quot; we look up and the critic 99 percent of the time is who? Us. Shame drives two big tapes -- &quot;never good enough&quot; -- and, if you can talk it out of that one, &quot;who do you think you are?&quot; The thing to understand Shame is a focus on self, Shame is &quot;I am bad.&quot; Guilt is &quot;I did something bad.&quot; How many of you, if you did something would be willing to say, How many of you would be Guilt: I'm sorry. I made a mistake. Shame: I'm sorry. I am a mistake. There's a huge difference And here's what you need to know. Shame is highly, highly correlated with addiction, depression, bullying, suicide, eating disorders. And here's what you even Guilt, inversely correlated The ability to hold something up against who we want to be It's uncomfortable, but it's adaptive. The other thing you need is it's absolutely organized by gender. If shame washes over me it's going to feel the same. Everyone sitting in here knows We're pretty sure that the only people are people who have no capacity Which means, yes, I have a little shame; no, I'm a sociopath. So I would opt for, yes, Shame feels the same for men and women, but it's organized by gender. For women, the best example I can give you &quot;I can put the wash on the line, and be at work at five to nine. I can bring home the bacon, and never let you forget you're a man.&quot; For women, shame is, do it all, do it perfectly and never let them see you sweat. I don't know how much perfume but I guarantee you, it moved a lot of antidepressants (Laughter) Shame, for women, is this web of unobtainable, conflicting, about who we're supposed to be. And it's a straight-jacket. For men, shame is not a bunch of competing, Shame is one, do not be perceived as what? Weak. I did not interview men It wasn't until a man looked at me &quot;I love what say about shame, I'm curious why you didn't mention men.&quot; And I said, &quot;I don't study men.&quot; And he said, &quot;That's convenient.&quot; (Laughter) And I said, &quot;Why?&quot; And he said, &quot;Because tell our story, be vulnerable. But you see those books you just signed I said, &quot;Yeah.&quot; &quot;They'd rather me die than watch me fall down. When we reach out and be vulnerable, we get the shit beat out of us. And don't tell me it's from the guys Because the women in my life So I started interviewing men And what I learned is this: You show me a woman in real vulnerability and fear, I'll show you a woman You show me a man who can sit with a woman who's just had it, she can't do it all anymore, and his first response is not, &quot;I unloaded the dishwasher!&quot; (Laughter) But he really listens -- because that's all we need -- I'll show you a guy Shame is an epidemic in our culture. And to get out from underneath it -- to find our way back to each other, we have to understand how it affects us and how it affects the way we're working, Very quickly, some research He asked, what do women need to do The top answers in this country: nice, thin, modest and use all available (Laughter) When he asked about men, what do men in this country need to do the answers were: always show emotional control, work is first, pursue status and violence. If we're going to find we have to understand and know empathy, because empathy's the antidote to shame. If you put shame in a Petri dish, it needs three things secrecy, silence and judgment. If you put the same amount in a Petri dish it can't survive. The two most powerful words me too. And so I'll leave you with this thought. If we're going to find our way vulnerability is going to be that path. And I know it's seductive because I think I did it my whole life, and think to myself, I'm going to go in there and kick some ass when I'm bulletproof and when I'm perfect. And that is seductive. But the truth is, that never happens. And even if you got and as bulletproof as you when you got in there, that's not what we want to see. We want you to go in. We want to be with you And we just want, for ourselves and the people we care about and the people we work with, to dare greatly. So thank you all very much. (Applause)