When I was nine, when I was nine years old, And the dream and the plan was to be the best Safety's a position in football, for American So I had this plan, I drew up this plan to I had 20 years to do it. I brought that plan with me today. I'm gonna show it to you. Some kids just reminded me the other day that good about that. And there it is. That is my little declaration of independence. I gotta show you guys check this out. Oh, nice. It's a hell of a jump. Okay, that's me, right? Look at that hairdo. You guys see that? There I am. All right. You gotta check these cleats out there. Look at those cleats. They're like nine inches long. That's how I drew when I was nine. So that is the 20-year plan to become the Now, if you, if you wanted to be the best you gotta do better than anyone else in the And that's this. You gotta do one thing better than everybody You gotta be able to run backwards faster So for the next 10 years after drawing up Every recess, boom, boom. All my buddies were running forward. I was running backwards. My Dad, he woke me up every morning at 5:00 did was run backwards. Ten years passes, 10 years passes, the dream Now it's time for me to go to college. So if I'm gonna be the best safety in the safety, right? So there's 350 colleges in the United States me, not one. Not one wrote me a letter. Not one recruited me. Zero. Think of the worst college you ever heard They didn't want me. So this is what I did. I invited myself to this small college near It was called UC Davis. And at UC Davis, they don't give any scholarships. They basically play football there for fun. It's not even a real deal. Right? So I go, &quot;That's perfect for me. I'm gonna invite myself to UC Davis. I'm gonna keep the dream alive by playing any scholarships or anything.&quot; Anybody could play there. So I go to UC Davis. And the first day at UC Davis I get in this guys in this line. And I'm right in the middle of the line. And at the front of this line is a window On the other side of this window are two equipment And these are the two meanings dudes I ever I mean they had tattoos way before. It was cool to have tattoos and they hated So, I'm in this line with 100 other guys and to sit in Beasley, ''Hi, I'm Bo, and I'm a Davis football team.'' To my shock, Sid and Beasley gave me a practice So I went over to the locker and I opened I hung up my civilian clothes. I put on this practice uniform and I ran out And I practiced for two hours with the UC And at the end of the two hours, all those room. And the locker room entrance is about right Our head coach, a guy named Jim Soaker, would locker room and he would watch us men file And as I got close to him, this is what he &quot;Excuse me. Mr. Eason. Hi, can I have a word with you, son?&quot; And I was like, &quot;Ooh, shit. Coach wants to talk to me already. Must have done good.&quot; So I ran over to coaching. I said, ''Hey, coach, how're you doing?'' And coach said, ''I'm doing pretty good. However, you, not so good. Look, you're too small and you're too slow So here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna send you home and we're gonna We're gonna take away your meal ticket. Now, you can go home and in 30 days time when go to school here, but you will never play I ran as fast as I could, right into that I went right to my locker and I undid the I took off my practice uniform and I hung I put on my civilian clothes and I ran as And in the parking lot is my 1977 Ford courier It is a piece of junk. It's all rusted out. It's blue. The windshield is totally broken like this. And then I stole one of my mom's hangers so music and I stuck it in there. And I got in this Ford courier pickup and store, fast as I could to the supermarket hours before they sent me home, I was sitting there in my mom and dad's driveway. And I'm the youngest of six kids. So all my older brothers and sisters, they They sat in their piece of junk car and they it was my turn. So I'm sitting there in my little pickup and porch waving and my dad is standing right And my dad is a cowboy. He's a rancher, so he doesn't talk a lot. But me and my dad make eye contact through the driver's side and he knocks on the window something.&quot; So I rolled down my window and I said, &quot;Dad, And my dad still doesn't say anything, but out his wallet. He opens his wallet and he pulls something the window. And he said, ''Son, I want you to take this It was a $10 bill. I said, ''Dad, I don't need the 10 bucks to I don't need it.'' He said, ''Son, just in case of emergencies, So 24 hours later, I'm so happy I got 10 bucks the biggest jar of peanut butter that they Two bags. Remember in those days you get old bread like They sell it for cheap. So I got two bags of hotdog buns. They were so hard, you could drive a nail I got in that Ford courier pickup. I parked it in the driveway of the locker for dinner that night. And I slept in that Ford courier pick up. Next morning, second day of practice and I what I always did, which was to pretend nothing And I snuck into the locker room. And as I was making my way over to my locker, were right there and they were looking at Yeah. And I snuck by them. I'd got all the way over to my locker. I opened it, it was empty. There was no practice uniform in my locker. So I went back to Sid and Beasley. I said, ''Sid, Beasley, you guys, guess what? I'm Bo, that freshman from yesterday? Yeah. Guess what, you guys, there's been a mistake. Yeah. There's no practice uniform in my locker.'' And Sid and Beasley go, ''Yeah. There is no practice uniform in your locker We sent you home yesterday, took away your So get.'' ''But I can't get, see because I got this...I dream and the plan is for me to be the best And I only got a few more years to do it. So could you just give me, you know, like Sid and Beasley are tough, man, tough, but this to me, ''Freshman, you wait right there.'' And he walks to the back of the equipment like a hank of cloth, something off the wall throws this hank of cloth at me and it's an match the rest of the team. It's a different shade of blue up here, the There's no stripes, there's no stripes. And they gave me this big ass helmet that It's called the suspension helmet. They don't make them anymore, but the padding Rope is the cushion inside. So they gave me this big old helmet, like step. The helmet come down over my eyes like that, I didn't care. I took this old unmatching uniform and helmet. I went back over to my locker, I opened it up, put on this practice uniform and I'm out But I don't match. A hundred guys out there, it's hot, we're as hard as I can and nobody says anything Thirty days goes by. Every day, I sleep in that Ford courier pickup, for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. And I go out to practice every day and no But everyone now and again, I could see a and going like this. ''Coach, can I have a question? Why is that goofy freshman still here with But nobody said anything to me. So I just kept going. Thirty days goes by, now it is time for our and my mom and dad are driving three hours So, on game night, I just kind of did, you that nothing happened. And sneaked my way past Sid and Beasley over empty. There was no game uniform in my locker. So I go back over to Sid and Beasley. I just said, ''And Beasley, you guys remember Guess what, you guys, yeah, there's been another Yeah, there's no game uniform in my locker.'' And Sid and Beasley are like, ''Yeah, there not on the team. We let you practice. We thought that was cute, but this is a real You're not one of them. So get.'' I said, ''No, no. You guys, what you forgot was I still have best safety in the whole world. And guess what, you guys, my mom and dad are They're gonna wonder where I've been for the If you could just give me something, just Just something.'' These guys are tough, man, but Beasley, that &quot;Freshman, you wait right there.&quot; And he walks to the back of the equipment He grabs another hank of something off the me, and he says, ''Here's the deal, freshman, Again, this thing doesn't match. It's a totally different-colored uniform. He goes, ''This is what you're gonna do, freshman, Then this is what you're gonna do. You're gonna run out with 100 guys with the gonna be on the sideline. You are going to run to this little spot on sit in that spot the whole game. If you move or if the coaches, or you get our jobs. Do you understand, freshman?'' I said, ''I'll do it. I'll do it.'' So they gave me this unmatching game uniform. I went to my locker, I opened, I took off game uniform and I run out with the varsity. Game night, lights, on marching band. I was running out trying to blend in with field, I look up into the bleachers and my like this. &quot;Oh, there's our boy, playing his first college Little do they know I'm not even on this team. And I make my way just like Beasley told me very end of the bench and I sit there the The whole game, I just sit there and all I at the clock ticking down lower and lower left in the game. And we're beating this team like 35 nothing. We're killing this team. I think we're playing like Chico State, somebody We're, killing them, right? And all I could do was just watch that clock And I thought one thing, &quot;I gotta get in this So it was time for us to kick the ball off, UC Davis is going to kick the ball deep to The kickoff team at UC Davis, that was the Everybody wanted to be on that kickoff team. In fact, our best player, our best player, Goss, he was on the kickoff team. And Darryl Goss got the kickoff team to huddle ''All right, kick off team. Hey, bring it in. Hey, you guys, listen up bring it in, kickoff. Get ready.&quot; I was sitting 10 yards behind Darryl Goss the number on Darryl Goss's uniform was number That's the same number they gave me. They gave me a duplicate unmatching Jersey Goss. So I said, &quot;This is my chance.&quot; So I sneaked up behind Darryl Goss and I tapped Goss turns around like this. He doesn't even look at my face. He doesn't even know who I am. He goes, ''Why are you wearing my jersey?'' I said, ''Darryl, don't worry about that right I got asked your favorite Darryl. I gotta run down on the kickoff team for you. Can I?'' Darryl Goss is like, ''Are you crazy, man? You can't run down on the kickoff team for I said, ''No, no, no. They can't kill you, Darryl. You're our best player. You're the captain of our team. If you just let me run down, and my mom and could just see me.'' And Darryl Goss thought that was the funniest senior boys and he goes, ''You guys, check You guys gotta check this guy out. You see that freshman wearing my number, he's Let's isolate on him. Let's watch him.'' So the UC Davis kickoff team lines up, and of the stage, all the way to the back of the So if you're off the field of battle, you're If you're in the field of battle, you're here. This is where Darryl Goss lines up right here. He's the very end guy on the kickoff team. The sideline is one yard behind him. He lines up here, our kickers, they're going Darryl Goss's gonna run down and make the Here's where Darryl Goss lines up. Here's where I line up. And right before the kicker kicks the ball is what I did. And now the number two's have traded places. Our kicker kicks the ball off. I take off. Now, I am small but I am fast because I am And I'm running down the field as fast as Now, if, if you are the first person down is called the wedge. And the wedge is the four biggest players wedge's job is. They interlock arms like this, four of them 275 pounds each these guys. They lock arms like this. They run full speed to create a wedge. If you are the first person on the UC Davis to become a wedge buster. And a wedge buster's job is to go full speed bowling pins so that your friends can now And so I'm running down and I look around I knew my job and all my whole life just passed And as I was looking at this wedge and I could helmet was coming down like this. All I could think about was, &quot;Uh-oh, this And as I got to the wedge, instead of busting I close my eyes and I went airborne over the And on my way back down to earth, bam, I hit Bam. He goes flat, the crowd stands up, &quot;Yeah.&quot; And I stand up. &quot;Yeah.&quot; And over the loud speaker, I hear this, &quot;Tackle I dropped my hands and I tried to turn invisible because the part I didn't tell you guys was And as I was making my way back to the little back over my shoulder and our head coach, ago was standing on the sideline like this, Darryl Goss, and he's standing like this. So I watched the last minute, 20 seconds tick I ran as fast as I could into the locker room Nobody was in there. I went right to my locker. I opened it up, I took off this game uniform, I put on this my civilian clothes, I didn't And then I ran right out to the parking lot And I had peanut butter hot dog bun sandwiches And that whole weekend, man, I was dying. I'm dying. I was thinking, this is it. This is...I'm outta here. They're gonna kick me out now. Sid and Beasley are probably gonna get fired. Darryl Goss, he is not gonna get to be the I'm outta here. Then Monday morning came around, practice. So I just, you know, just did what I always We're supposed to pretend nothing happened Monday morning. And I looked up at Sid and Beasley and they I made my way all the way over to my locker And there was a brand new varsity uniform Four years later, four years later, I was Yeah. People always ask, they go, &quot;Well, how could How could you be the worst player in the history and then four years later be the best player And I said, ''It can happen because what's All those 5:00 AMs that nobody saw. My body caught up to me. My whole life I've been obsessed, and if you say the word that best describes me as haunted I left football after five years. I had seven knee surgeries while I played And the next thing I just thought, you know, out of the NFL, what we're good at is very We're the best in the world at that one thing, then just throwing your head into other bodies. That's what we're great at. That's what I was the best in the world at. And after I got injured, I thought one thing, And the first vision that pumped into my head prison. I did because the best thing that I do is You can get a lot of money out there and you real world, you don't, you go to jail. So to avoid jail, the very next thought in I've got to find something like this, where the football field because you can be the yourself out. Can I do it again? Can I be taught to do it from a platform, That way, I can avoid jail, which is good a living and build a company, and that's what I moved to New York City and I went to everybody And I go, ''I started this plan when I was And now I'm saying I wanna be the best stage And I went to every student in my class and Who's the best stage performer of our time?&quot; And this was 1990 and all these kids said, And I said, ''Cool, where's he?'' And they said, ''He's Al Pachino, you can't And I said, &quot;I'm gonna talk to him because he's the only one who can tell me how to be And he did. I met with Al Pachino for three hours at his And I said to him, I said, ''Al, I'd like Everyone in my class tells me you're the best I'd like to be that of my time.'' And he's like, ''I can tell you what to do, And I said, ''That's good because I work good And he broke down my next 15 years, basically. He broke it down on a piece of paper and I thing being the same, the best. The best safety in the world, the best stage one. I don't know why. That's why I'm obsessed with this. So I did it. I did it. And 15 years, basically to the day that Al am backstage in a Broadway house in New York and I'm the only guy in. And I'd never been so nervous. I'd rather run into the wedge than these critics And I ran out and as I ran out, I was doing I was doing the play just like I'm talking I'm talking and I'm talking to the audience audience. And I make eye contact with a guy in row five and it was Al Pachino. Yeah, and I hadn't seen him in 15 years other to him. And he was sitting right there and this is I'm making eye contact with Al Pachino going I'm trying to remember my lines and I'm going, And then I'm thinking about like &quot;The Godfather.&quot; You know, I'm thinking about...I'm running him, he's looking at me, and he's got his on stage like this. And he's got his lips pursed like this. And this is all he did. Best review I ever got, right? Best review. I just did everything that he told me to do. I am haunted by this idea of being the best the best. Does anyone got a problem with that? Because sometimes I talk to audiences and to be the best.'' And I would just argue it this way. I'm not gonna argue with you about you being Nature. And Mother Nature as far as I'm concerned No one's beat her yet. Okay. So I'm on her team and she says I'm the best, And she says you're the best because the first conception and on that day, who remembers You remember it? Some people do, some people go, &quot;Yeah, I remember And then some people are like, &quot;I don't even But let me just remind those of us who can't sperm were delivered on that day. Three hundred million, you being one of them, All of those 300 with a million years of design Get to that egg and fertilize the egg. Now, do you think that's a casual swim for Imagine that swim. It's not like, &quot;Oh, I'm gonna do the backstroke. I hope I find an egg. Hope I get lucky. Oh.&quot; Three hundred million to one odds. I bet that was violent and dangerous and we And I know I was showing elbows at my brothers have elbows. So you tell me who won the first race you you. So the rest of your life, once you're born, not the best. Take it up with Mother Nature. We are the best. It is our responsibility and it's who we are, There's one thing, there is one thing on this to be the best, and I'm just using myself pigs. They're great guinea pigs, kids. Go, no, your job is to be the best in the choosing. That's it. And that's our whole commitment is to that. My whole family is like that. The people that work with me, that's what So that's how it goes. And so I'm gonna teach you right now three be the best. Okay? Everybody got it? Here we go. Story, number one. You gotta know your story and that story has It's not a story like, well, my cousin had It's not like that. It is the more personal your story, the more The more personal your story, the more universality Now, I'll give you a quick example. My dad, remember I told you, I'll give you My dad was a rancher, right? So he roped cattle. When I was a little kid, I watched him do And one day I was watching, my dad wrote cattle steer and he ropes the steer and steers don't So they run the opposite direction. The cowboy, my dad, in this case, jumps off meaning, hold that rope in his hand and it as a thousand-pounds steers run the other Well, my dad's hands that day, I saw his hands...smoke Now, when we would go swimming, me and my would get in the pool with us, with blue jeans and throw us across the pool. Every time he picked us up, we would scream, Because his hands were nothing but scar tissue. So that takes me 40 seconds to tell you that Personal equals universal. When I speak of my dad's hands, you don't You think of your dad's hands. The more personal your story, the more effect Number one, you've gotta know your story. You gotta be personal. Number two, most critical step is physicality. Do you guys know that we're predators? You know the human beings are predators? You'd never know that this day if you watch that moniker to the worst of our society, We're predators. We are the most dangerous lethal predators Great white sharks, killer whales, cheetahs, more lethal. Stop apologizing for it. Our whole world has been apologizing for being So we're walking around like this, physicality best. We're walking around apologetically like this. This is how our world works. Covering every powerful thing we got honest, Our heart, here, here, covering everything. Apologizing. Predators never do that. I was trained by the greatest movement coach A guy named John Louis Rodriguez. John, you guys know John Louis? Yeah, he works with the biggest movie stars on their physicality, not what they say. Physicality, predator movement. There's a tribe in Africa called the Nuba The Nuba tribe is known to never be eaten Yet all the other tribes are being eaten and tribe. Why? So John Louis goes and lives with...my teacher, takes videos and he takes pictures of how like I move. They are the predator. They don't apologize for it. So imagine all these cats are all around them, like this. And the cats are sitting there just like our society where we live. They're sitting there waiting for an easy to them because they are unapologetic. This is the men and this is the women, and to move. This is how we move. Nobody will mess with you. Nobody. At the end of John Louis with the tribe, he you've gotta be kidding me. You're telling me nobody from the Nuba tribe's And he goes, &quot;No, that's not true. We had some men eaten.&quot; John Louis said, ''Why? When?'' And the chief said, ''When the men get drunk, So imagine these guys, these tribesmen moving Bam. Cats all around waiting. Don't touch them. They go down to the local, drop their guard. It's that subtle. Bam, dead, dead. No different than our society. Your story, your quest to be the best has itself to, like, communicating like so tiny We can't fit into it. And that's the reason why we're so messed We start crossing boundaries. We start doing goofy stuff with our bodies let this sucker out to hunt. Never trust a speaker who is not sweating Yeah. Which gets me to my next point. This is the thing. Number one, more personal, the more universal, Number two, physicality. People believe 50% of what comes out of your So as I'm talking up here, you're going, &quot;Oh, Oh, I don't believe that. Oh, Bo, I believe that. Oh, Bo, I don't believe that.&quot; Fifty percent one way or the other, but you body can't lie. Body cannot lie. This is why politicians stand behind podiums. Yeah, it is. That's why they were invented, because that there. It is. That's just how it goes. Never stand behind a podium because people They see your body being hidden. They don't trust it. Your body is so believable. You trust it like this fast. Everybody understand this, we are predators. We are the smartest, we are the most lethal, Don't apologize for it. It's who we are. Don't let the media convince you that, &quot;Oh, It is not. It is the most noble thing on the planet. And those guys, those media guys, and those I'm going with her. Guess why? She's undefeated. I hate losing. I don't like losing. So I saddle up with the best, which is Mother And I go with her. And what did she tell me? For one, I'm the best. Number two, I am a predator and I move and this is the only promise that I make for the I make one promise and that's it. You do what I say or better yet, you just You do what I do and here's the promise. People will have the ability to look away [00:41:36] [00:41:49] And we can do this all day. I'm telling you. Listen, think about this. What if I put a lion right there, a lioness? The one that hunts for the pride. What if I put her right there? What are you gonna do as an audience? You tell me exactly what you do. I put a lion right here and she just sits What do you do? You don't do anything. You don't breathe unless she breathes. You don't think about going potty. You're not like, &quot;Oh, I wonder if I should No, you have to be a predator on stage. All of you have a quest. All of you have a quest. Who do you think's gonna help you build that Everyone else. You're not gonna build it alone. Everyone else is gonna help you build that How are they gonna build it for you? They got to have a predator in front of them I'm up here and you're saying, &quot;Hey, I'm Bo, I'm powerful guy.&quot; But that's what we do in front of people. We just sit up there and we just go, &quot;I'm I don't wanna scare anybody, so I'm just gonna meant to be, so I'll just try to fit in at But when a predator walks into Starbucks, When I walk in to Starbucks, he goes like No one's seen me. This is what the lion does and they can't The lion's like this, this is what they do. &quot;Oh, hey, you wanna go?&quot; They feel it. Your audience feels it. This is a learn thing. I was an athlete. I didn't know this. I didn't know this could be taught. This is a learn thing, who you are. Re-remembering who you are at the most basic You can't take your eyes off of it. No different than the lioness right here, don't feel scared. Do you? Anybody feel scared? No. Why? Why don't you feel scared? Yeah. You feel safe. You feel safe. Predators provide safety. They're dangerous just like our navy seals, dudes, but they provide safety. Understand? That's what it's about. So the next time you... And just think about own life, think about five minutes. Think about the occupations right now that You can't dismiss them. What are those occupations? Think about that for a second. What are they? What can you never take your eyes off of? Dancer, at the highest level, Mikhail Baryshnikov, I did my show at his theater and this dude my dressing room and he would be going up And, you know, I thought he was a big old He's like that big. Mikhail Baryshnikov, the greatest ballet dancer form forever. He's this big and he's much older than you You can't look away from this dude because You look down at his feet, they're mangled, He has paid the price. He is a master. You can never look away from a predator like Nobody could knock him off. If you will saw a green beret charging a beach from that? Because you go, &quot;Huh?&quot; No, you can't. If you see a firefighter charging into a burning of and they're running into, can you look Can you go, ah, like you do everybody else? It's impossible to be dismissed if you...if To me onstage is be life and death. For you to build your quest, that's life and quest never happens? what happens to your family? It's life and death to somebody. Everybody understand? The urgency's gotta be there. Okay? We are predators. This is how we're made. It's so much easier to be this. It's so much easier to be the best than it Mediocre, you've gotta invent a whole kind That's our world, man. They just sit over there and point people She's good looking.&quot; Just be the best. It's easy. Just do it and there's no competition either. But you got it? Number one, the more personal, the more universal Predatory instincts, muscularity to the story. When I tell a story, am I physical or am I I'm gonna tell you a story about me going How long could you listen to that for? You're polite so you'd listen for a few minutes I can't stand when I see that. I just want to commit Harry Carey or something. I wanna get rid of myself because of them, See, the third most critical step that you've storyteller, generosity. Generosity. Now, I'm not talking about generosity like, Or, &quot;Hey, Bo, I'm a big tipper.&quot; I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about the art of giving all of Anyone remember a guy named Jerry Rice? Who remembers Jerry Rice? For those of you who don't remember Jerry player ever to play the game, ever. He is so far out in front of the guy in second He's got 60 more touchdowns than the guy in Do you know how long it takes to score 60 long enough? You can't do it. I used to play against this dude. It is a nightmare to play against the best of my career, I got traded to the San Francisco So me and Jerry Rice are on the same team, 100 years, we're on the same team. I said, ''Shit, that's good. I wanna see what he does.'' So we get to training camp. First day of training camp, Rocklin, California, I made this little deal with myself when I And the deal was this, wherever practice I a rehearsal, or a tennis practice, or football, to be the first person on that court or on And I was also gonna be the last person to That was just a contract. I didn't even tell anybody about it, but that And that held true for 20 years. And then I got traded to San Francisco. And I walk out two hours before anybody's and I'm like, this is my new home, first one And I look right over here and guess who's in the history of a game. I'm like, &quot;How could that be? Why aren't the lesser players out here? Why is the best out here yet the rookies are So Jerry Rice and I stood out there for two The rest of the team comes out and this is Joe Montana, Roger Craig, Randy Cross, Ronnie So they all come out, right? And we start warming up and this is the warm Joe Montana and Steve Young are our quarterbacks, They snap the ball to Joe. This is warm ups, mind you. And Joe's gonna throw these nice little patterns Jerry Rice is a wide receiver. The first wide receiver does this. Joe snaps the ball, first receiver does this, breaks off a little slant route. Joe throws the ball, the receiver catches Walks the ball back to Joe Montana, gives Second receiver comes up, this is what he All cool, all pro-glide, breaks off a little Joe throws the ball, receiver catches the hands Joe the ball, back in line. And then Jerry Rice came up, and I said, ''Oh, Okay. Let's see what he does.'' This is what Jerry Rice did. Vroom, full speed. Bam. Breaks off a slam. Bam, catches the ball. Boom, gone, 100 yards. Vroom, gone. All of us are like, where the hell is he going? All the way 100 yards, gets his body into the way back to Joe Montana, right back in Yeah. Next guy comes up. Gonna run a little out route, right, next All cool, breaks off a little out route, catches Montana, gives Joe the ball. And then Jerry Rice came up again, and this Vroom, full speed. Bam, breaks it off, boom, catches the ball. Bam, he is gone. Over and over and over and over again, three He must've run 10 miles of dead ass sprints, flipping it around all the way back. I've never seen anything like this. I played this game 20 years. So I went up to Jerry Rice after practice. I said ''Hey, man. So, Jerry, what's the deal with you, man? I mean, why do you do all that? You know, the running, why do you do that?'' And he goes, ''Oh, that's very simple, Bo. I do that because every time these hands touch There are no accidents. That guy is so willing to give of himself you and me get to turn. Generosity is up to us.&quot; All those other receivers, they could have And you know what's funny about that? I can't remember their names. I know that my teammates, I can't remember Jerry Rice lives inside my marriage. He lives inside the way I parent. What? What did I say? What did I say? Check this out. I got asked, I'll close with this. I got asked to marry these two young people, And a beautiful young people, it was in Santa will you be the, you know, the preacher man I'm like, ''I'm not a preacher man.'' And they said, ''Yeah, we think you are.'' And I said, &quot;Okay.&quot; So I went on the internet and apparently I man. And so the first wedding that I ever officiated church in Santa Barbara. And I never use notes or PowerPoint's or anything. But I wanted to be official, right? So I bought this book with leather bound, But I wanted to pretend like I was reading And so I get in front of the congregation, wedding that I ever officiated was this. &quot;When I think of marriage, the first person Every dude in the audience was like high-fiving They're like, &quot;Yeah, man, this is my kind But that's the... This guy's a football player, right? He's a football player, but he's impacted day, every department of my life, whether or leading. You turn the dial all the way up and then Everybody got it? Audience: Yeah. Bo: The first critical step is you got to It can't be like distant from you. It's gotta be personal. Second, you gotta physicalize that story, And if anybody stands in the way of that story I mean, they do because, you know, there's be eliminated. It's not that hard. They're gonna step aside anyway because you're Watch when you go to the bathroom right now, You're like... Damn, watch, You watch, you watch how you We're gonna eat lunch right now, right? Watch how you eat lunch. You won't even use the utensils. That's what I want you to be with your quest.