Since bowing out of the console race over quite like Sega. Hitting lofty heights and shocking lows with hedgehog, all in the space of a decade, it's holds an air of reverence. A true veteran of the Console Wars, this plucky - managed an impossible feat. At the height of Nintendo's power, they the home console market by storm with the Or 'Genesis', if you wanna get Sega of For an all-too-brief moment in the early 90s, all came crashing down in a storm of company decisions in a swiftly changing market. And one console sits at the heart of this This was to be Sega's entry into the 32-bit Old rivals Nintendo were running late, and But somehow, Sega fumbled, and in a cruel famous not for its own accomplishments, but legendary "$299" mic-drop moment at E3 arrival. The poor thing only lasted a few hours. The Saturn still gained a good cult following, and unique blend of 2D and 3D hardware, gave However, it was also a masterclass in how space. And because the Saturn was so intrinsically makes this story such a fascinating one, covering beginning of the end for Sega's hardware Soget comfy, grab your funky Nights into Dreams because it's one hell of a ride to Saturn... For full context, let's head back to the Sega's Genesis? [long pause, to camera] All the way back in 1940, Sega was founded coin-operated arcade games in Hawaii, before Games of Japan'... HEY, PAY ATTENTION! This IS relevant, if only to remember Sega's before video game tech, when mechanical games Of course, Sega's story reallypicks up in Genesis and/or Mega Drive. Following their humble SG-1000 and Master Launching in 1988 to 1989, the Genesis got couple of years, and while it couldn't dislodge markets, it was a smash hit. In 1990, Sega hired Tom Kalinske - you might've to push the advantage in the US, and a year the golden era for Sega. Armed with Sonic, a sassy, speedy mascot infinitely along with a relentless marketing campaign like "Sega does what Nintendon't", all gimmicks like "Blast Processing", Sega Suddenly, they had the hip, trendy console, their baby games! 'Project Saturn' began as early as 1992, no closer to joining Team Blue. More detail on the Saturn's design is coming worried about the competition, which influenced With the Panasonic 3DO and Atari Jaguar already hype, Sega started bolting on parts to Saturn's launch, along with a stop-gap solution to Genesis. This visible panic was a far cry from their On 21st November 1994, the 32X launched in next-generation Saturn arrived in Japan. Crucially, they beat PlayStation to the punch this plan worked! At least, to begin with... Despite boasting only 2 exclusives out of units, compared to PlayStation's 300,000. Truly, a Christmas miracle! In the US, Saturn was set for a September the 2nd - but Sega of Japan couldn't hold they told Kalinske the release date would The new date? May 11th, 1995, at the inaugural E3 trade Where a simple 3-digit number would change Poor Saturn, that's got to be the worst You may already be familiar with Sony's finer details are fascinating, so let's Sega took the stage first, asTom Kalinske 32-bit Saturnwasn't coming out in September... it was available right now! 30,000 Saturns were shipped out to Toys R Software Etc, ready for sale immediately, What a delightful surprise, right? The problem was, this wasn't just a surprise everyone else. Major retailerslike Best Buy and Walmart were of the loop, and KB Toys even dropped Sega's Developers were angry about this release date, be part of a console launch lineup, not to player base, and future sales for their own Even fans were annoyed too, given they only to get a Saturn on launch day. This surprise 'shadow drop' was misguided blow. On the same stage, on the same day, Steve is due on stage for a so-called 'brief speech'. Race calmly walks up to the podium, shuffles says one thing: Two Ninety-Nine. And the crowd goes wild. With just three digits, Sony single-handedly left, undercutting its price by 100 dollars. What really adds some spice to this story - in fact, he was Kalinske's right-hand behind the Genesis success story. Kalinske stated himself years later, that the supposed insider knowledge, Race had been up until that morning" of E3. The Saturn had been sunk by the same guy that As if that's not enough drama, Race resigned the PlayStation even launched in America, in Japan. What a rollercoaster. Back to E3, the 32-bit battle broke out in up their booth speakers near Sony, drowning "if you bought a Saturn, your head was in Steve Race even popped Kalinske's inflatable Must've taken ages to pick up all those The Saturn's fate seemed a cruel irony for E3, but despite that, he never seemed too Almost as if he knew how doomed they were The big 2-9-9 looked like a knockout blow, dazed and confused. The Genesis did so well partly thanks to its Super Nintendo. This wasn't a new tactic, however, as Sega's fast". Remember their coin-op arcade roots we mentioned? In that market, embracing new technology and to keeping customers coming and the coin flowing. But playing at the cutting edge means you On the back of the Genesis - quite literally The add-on represented an early step towards Sadly, it flopped commercially, what with than the host console, and all for a low number It's a minor footnote in the Saturn's - Sony Imagesoft, who Sega helped on the ForeShadow the Hedgehog has a bad feeling * as it falls from smiling to serious, while By 1992, western markets were still caught were rather dismal, so Sega began planning set to be the ultimate pixel powerhouse. But don't take my word for it -pop that This bad boy was packing not one, but TWO with not one, but TWO Video Graphics Processors- 3D and backgrounds. The high-end Yamaha sound processor - just output, like this banger: bit games had loads more storage space, for a Yes, that's a lot of hardware. No, it's not normal to have a billion processors, Originally, Sega wanted it to be a 2D sprite-machine - because even though their Virtua Fighter 3D graphics, they still thought home consoles The first iteration of Saturn's design was the next-gen competition arrived, with the started panicking about being left behind- Then rumours started circling about the PlayStation's panic mode. 3D graphics were not only possible, but coming of Power tribute, Sega started awkwardly bolting it up. Sega's Director and veteran engineering processor to help calculate 3D spaces, though this processor was designed to work efficiently A second Video Processor was also added to used four-sided shapes, so technically they'd quadrilatergons? I don't know, I'm not a doctor. Naturally, this wacky hardware setup made The potential for gorgeous 2D sprites and genius to even navigate it. Meanwhile, Sony's new machine included a more user-friendly, which of course Saturn studios with development tools or documentationat These complex Saturn components weren't basically 'off-the-shelf' parts from companies who were able to make custom parts all on Saturn's hardware was a mess, and Sega were but could this competition have been avoided Looking at video game history in the 90s often In an alternate universe, the fabled Nintendo two great houses that surely would've dominated Instead, Nintendo burned Sony, which gave video game market. That particular tale has been told many times, with Sega. We believe this happened at some point in were underwhelmed by early hardware specs the idea of a joint console. The logic was, since Sega always took a loss of hardware, but not software - Sega keeps for Sony. Kalinske had to convince the higher-ups in Hayao Nakayama*, the notoriously strict, straight-talkingboss. *Hi-Yow Na-ka-yah-ma Nakayama was not a fan of Sony President Norio Paramount almost sold Sega to Sony in 1983, by dodging the topic of partnership with several In the end, both parties agreed it wouldn't Much like Nintendo, Sega feared the partnership size, so Nakayama said: We'll do our own system, and they can do The outspoken Kalinske called it "the stupidest And I'm sure ForeShadow the Hedgehog might "be careful what you wish for..." Huh... But wait, this 'What If' gets better. On his personal quest to outdo Sega of Japan's chairman of Silicon Graphics, who were experts Their new chipsetwas ideal for next generation Japan once again said no. Hideki Sato, the hardware maestro, said the run-off waste in production. This didn't mean the chip was literally This was about the manufacturing process, and carved out, which creates varying degrees are quite important here. To camera, explaining with actual wafer/cracker? Break off pieces, then eat the 'excess' Pause, "What?" Kalinske was beyond exasperated. This wonderchip seemed more advanced in every So when he broke the bad news to Silicon Graphics, saying "I think their name starts with an Yes, this tasty forbidden chip ended up powering Sega had the opportunity to work with Sony chipset that the Nintendo 64 would end up Hindsight is a wonderful thing, but even at At least Sega also dodged a possible partnership lining. The frustrated Kalinske had one more trick Shall we get back to something Sega actually What? The Saturn? No, we're talking about the 32X, silly! Codenamed "Project Mars", the ill-fated a cheaper entry point to the 32-bit era, aiming Genesis. It was also intended to fill the gap before and to act as a speed bump against the competition. In reality, all it did was provide competition fans and studios alike. 'Project Mars' was originally conceived 'Genesis Pro', but the US team pushed alienating their existing fanbase. They believed the Genesis still had another keen to stop the undercooked Saturn from being They borrowed elements from the Saturn's Sega of America headed up the 32X project, hardware. The result was, predictably, a disaster. It had only 6 games at launch, totalling just far too much for the lack of games available; even more cords and adapters to work. But most damning was how the 32X launched the Saturn released in Japan. Many fans were left wondering why they should that would be obsolete in less than a year, games anyway? Plus, Donkey Kong Country had just launched wizardry, all WITHOUT needing an expensive Finally, any brave souls who DID drop money be less likely to upgrade again in a few months. Sega split the bits, and paid the price. There's nothing wrong with a lower-cost at the early popularity of the Xbox Series But thanks to timing, price, practicality only harmed the 32X, but actively undermined problems to deal with anyway. Kalinske later admitted the 32X was mostly Nakayama's eventual replacement as President huge strategic blunder.". *show-ee-chee-row Ee-ree-ma-jee-ree hands another paper] And by March 1995, Kalinske had received the that year, giving the 32X market just half Why was Sega so determined to sabotage itself Well, we have a couple of theories... Keep your voice down, because it's time We've already been introduced to the key no-nonsense 'tough guy' President Nakayama; maverick who conquered Nintendo. But they weren't necessarily personal rivals He convinced Tom to join in 1990, and despite to topple Nintendo, Nakayama kept faith in Kalinske free rein to run Sega's US operations, That is, until around '93,'94, where Sega almost out of nowhere, leading to the bizarre It turns out, Nakayama's admiration for to disappointment in his own team, as Sega Apparently, he'dberate staff every Monday wasn't up like "Tom has in the United slapping subordinates around. As Kalinske put it, if you're a middle manager to hate this Tom guy". Eventually, those same people rise the ranks and start persuading Nakayama to tighten the Sega of America were literally a victim of most popular narrative, a theory held by Kalinske most of what we know comes from Sega of America. What about Japan's side to the story? Sources aren't as readily available, but boiled down to the most obvious aspect of 1993 felt like Sega at its peak, but if that review that they'd "suffered hardship He cited three reasons for this: the worsening of the Yen, which sounds like great news for sales are earned overseas; and finally, an AKA, a mid-generation slump. While overall revenue looked ok by 1994, export matters worse, Sega of America was haemorrhaging It cost a lot to overtake a market leader alone went up from $10 million in 1989, to Factor in the failed Sega CD, the design costs like the Sega Pods and the Activator, Mega discounted at a heavy loss... Profits were falling even in 1993, so these grim from high up in Sega HQ. Whatever the reason for Japan's increasing budget constraints, rushing out their next the most important part of a console itself: It speaks volumes about how badly the Saturn we're only NOW covering the actual games. It'd be easy to trot out the classic"it line, and swiftly move on, but that isn't Across its lifetime, the Saturn hosted 1,046 the PlayStation's ludicrous total of almost miniscule 388 games, Saturn's library was The only problem was, 75% of that library That leaves only 261 western releases, even This skewed distributioncould have evolved Sony in Japan - in 1996, Kalinske even claimed which sounds ridiculous now, but wasn't However, between the development difficulties between 32X and Saturn, and the surprise early day one - particularly noticeable in the Japan had five titles, and only two first-party arcade port of Virtua Fighter, and mediocre Virtua Fighter single-handedly carried the lucky elsewhere. The US got six titles, with Daytona USA and and the European launch 2 months later somehow Dragoon and Pebble Beach Golf Links. We could forgive ONE delay, but how DARE you Sega? Had the US stuck to their original September 8 names to that lineup, including 2.5D platformer and the iconicMyst. It's not like the Saturn was devoid of high-quality Sega's arcade credentials produced classics House of the Dead, and Die Hard Arcade. The Saturn also became an RPG powerhouse, Saga, Magic Knight Rayearth, and countless games. But again, many of these were Japan-only releases, And this hints at another issue, which wasn't it was the TYPE of games being offered. The Saturn's strengths were pick-up-and-play Shoot-Em-Ups, and 2D sprite-based platformers. But the market was changing, and new genres Even with Saturn's best titles, most of of existing formats. By comparison, Sony seemed to offer fresh A long list of PS1 classics left their mark Twisted Metal, Tomb Raider, Resident Evil, Fantasy VII... those titles released in the first two years very much alive. And yes, we know some of these did come to on Saturn a month before PlayStation! But really, do any of us associate the original the Saturn? ...didn't think so. The absence of hit sequels only hurt the Saturn Third parties flocked to the PlayStation, once excelled in, such as their licensed sports EA was a notable loss, leaving to back the horse in Sony. Leaked marketing documents from 1996 say it Sports is now a liability on Saturn." Most of Saturn's sports lineup was either or just non-existent.** Sony also negotiated hard to entice heavy Entertainment, later known as Midway. One of the biggest moves was securing a deal effective answers to Daytona USA and Virtua right in their arcade credentials. Sega was outdone in every metric, but one fortunes... With overwhelming odds stacked against the power to stand a chance at saving the doomed Nights or Akira Yuki. Yes, we had to Google those names, which proves The Saturn needed Sonic, a name so synonymous so far is weird enough - to miss a Sega Fans were certain it was coming at some point, into three dimensions, unleashing the true Something extraordinary. Something explosive. Something... Extreme. Unfortunately, the tale of Sonic X-Treme became itself. It was a hodgepodge of different ideas pulled squabbles, needlessly complex development, In late 1994, the project was given to Sega Sonic the Hedgehog 2 - and funnily enough, hardware guru, and another ex-Sega employee Early concepts bounced from isometric views, a 32X game, to numerous ever-changing versions When Sonic creator Yuji Naka saw their progress, luck". ...But hey, he made Balan Wonderworld and does he know?! Development was split into two groups, working One focused on the main levels, adopting a fish-eye lens effect, all developed on PC, The other group made the boss stages, set itself. By March 1996, Nakayama inspected both parts, poorly ported from PC, generally not representative The 'Boss Stage' demo looked moreimpressive, like that, despite those sections only being So the majority of the game needed remaking to do it, to meet an October 1996 deadline. Meanwhile, Yuji Naka's Sonic Team were finalising build, programmer Chris Coffin asked Sega it would help their efforts massively. Amazingly, he got them! And everyone lived happily ever after... For about two weeks. Turns out, Naka was very protective of his sharing his precious code, so he redacted back even further. Oh, so THAT sort of insider trading is off The 'Boss Stage' team went full crunch despite orders, the other team were determined hard. Of course, this crunch took its toll on both Chris Senn, animator-turned-lead designer he had just six months to live, and Coffin that almost killed him. The game was cancelled not long after, and If' bin, along with Sega's future console Sonic did grace the Saturn a few times, but anything but a blast in 3D; Sonic R was a of old Mega Drive titles. The latter did include a bonus 3D stage, however, team, showing what they could've done if A whole segment of this video dedicated to overkill, but Sonic really could have changed One undeniably good game, at the dawn of the 3D Sonic before it began, and maybe even save Unfortunately, fate had other plans for Sega, the Saturn from speeding off into the sunset, Sega's journey to Saturn sure was a rough The console's failure had a devastating of the end for the plucky challengers. Alarm bells rang when Kalinske resigned in would announce at E3 1997 that "The Saturn that fateful surprise launch. With only 12% of console market share at this nobody was surprised. In March 1998, the Saturn was officially discontinued only 7 games released in 1998. It lasted longer in Japan, even marginally But with total worldwide sales of just 9.26 flop. Sega's follow-up, the Dreamcast, wouldn't leaving over a year without new Sega titles, machine with some real cult classics, the by the Saturn. Let's recap this planetary palaver shall While the Golden Age of the Genesis looked were heavy, and this created an internal rift some very bizarre decisions. Panicked by growing competition by Sony and increasingly complicated and difficult to for the 32X only split their core audience, At this point, a rushed surprise launch left bombshell "Two-Ninety-Nine" knockout blow, more mature marketing, better business strategy, towards. The Saturn's smaller, less varied library, Sonic, was the final nail in the coffin, as It's unusual for company politics to be as the hardware itself, but that's what Their gung-ho, rockstar attitude captivated but this same attitude became their downfall, so to speak. Sega were still treating the console wars a game of Poker: they showed their hand too and in the end, Sony called their bluff and It's a sad ending, becausewe'll probably like them. Sega shot for the stars, but in the end, their back down to earth.