- [Narrator] The Red Sea. A A place of silence, The Red Sea is famous which especially Algae can't spread easily here. This is why its can be considered a true We can find lots of highlights There are a lot of popular anemone fish, basses, vigilant morays, odd pufferfish, and, of course, The biggest attraction shining in the sunlight. From the Earth's orbit, we can clearly spot of the Red Sea. It is a narrow sea, up to 2,604 meters deep, and lies between the Arabian Peninsula. The Red Sea contains about 200,000 cubic Its surface is spread over and the water is on A good question would be why There have already been for it since antiquity. On the one hand, blue algae It swims right under the In its flowering This is why the water if you look at it from above. But this plant isn't widespread. Another explanation for the at the Red Sea's coast. They are red because which causes that shade. According to legend, those rocks have been burned red by the sun. The Red Sea could from Iranian seafarers to name the four The color of the South was red. The sea is geologically It was created 25 because of the and Asian continental plates. Then the crack was and the Red Sea was born. Because of the constant drift the Red Sea widens out 1.2 The South of the Red Sea is Over there, where Eritrea, border the sea, right in the There is a narrow where the sea is only and only 130 meters deep. Because of this there is only a which causes a In these conditions, plankton and the water seems as we can already observe But also under the water, the view is much as we are about to see now. [peaceful instrumental music] The most widespread as well, the most The fire corals and Madre are the main constructors For thousands of years, these animals have been right up to whole islands, The best known among them and the Maldives. That is possible because corals, which belong to the perpetually excrete limestone. The zooxanthella, a inside the coral, helps They live in symbiosis, which means that they provide These corals are really It always has to be between Therefore, they mostly live in shallow, tropical Stone and fire corals are actually just giant Every polyp is only up to one centimeter long. Besides the sustenance through corals mainly feed on which they catch Fire corals got their name or stinging cells, with through human skin and The symptoms are with a stinging nettle. But the pain can persist from The injuries can that can be visible That's why divers should and careful not to of confusing fire As for distribution fire corals are When fighting for fire corals can effectively These corals also have somewhat bigger polyps which they use in their fight They use them to sting and thus, destroy But the fish that are not impressed by that. The Anthiinae, a Actually, with them Living in groups of thousands, they use the corals' to hide from their predators. What's interesting of these fish are females. Usually, only one fiftieth At first, adult fish that later turn into males. But that mostly just If that is the case, the transforms into a male fish to take its place. Another resident of the Even though it is related it has a totally It gets its stability Its limbs and strains are Those are located at The soft corals' colors are If it lives in the shadows, it has a bright red, Mostly, they are located on or on the ceilings of caves. Corals are really important They provide shelter for That's why they are surrounded by huge swarms. If there's an enemy, between the branchy corals and are almost unreachable The coral's ability to is a huge advantage here, too. Although, the fish to come into contact because otherwise they Because of natural barriers and because of the environment in a special way, which can't be found have developed over One of those creatures This genus here is also They eat plankton and algae 15 centimeters is the maximum. The clownfish lives closely in a so-called That means, as we have just that two different from living together. Surprisingly, clownfish are although its Why doesn't it Very simple. It possesses a slime from the deadly poison. The anemonefish driving out predators like, In return, the anemone protects the anemonefish And those can even be rather funny looking Some of them can become Those sit-and-wait predators in the water to suddenly This is why they and take to their heels as Let's continue our way under in search of the most colorful And here we see a They grow a little bit up to 60 centimeters. The bluecheek of the most They can differentiate and other butterflyfish Most of the time and sometimes in A rather inconspicuous is the orbicular batfish. It's pretty flat and high. But the older it gets, the Characteristic for its shade are the vertical Thanks to this high can't recognize the and assume them to be leaves Older fish seem to be so that they look even In spite of their orbicular batfish are Divers often tell about at diving equipment or Bannerfishes get their name because of the large color Mostly, the colors are The colors around his eye area comparable to a raccoon. Here, we can see a yellow This species either lives For their eggs, they of sometimes up to in which the female can The bale of eggs, about is weighed down by the and watched over by There are a lot of Optically, there are in colors and patterns. But still, there are regarding their body structure. Just like their relative, they have strong teeth. And there are kinds that This coral actually looks kind Maybe that was one of the orange filefish. Many inhabitants of the or other floating plants, if there's an opportunity There are a lot of kinds for example, the rabbitfish. The Giant Grouper Up to three meters long, he is he biggest bony The young are black and have yellowish fins, whereas the adult with some brighter Striking about them as especially their mouth. The Giant Groupers' territory lays 50 to 100 sometimes in caves or wrecks. They usually only for a partner or for hunting. They feed on critters, and small sea and sometimes, However, in heavily there aren't many This predatory fish can because of his size. And even though they because of their size and they are really aggressive. Sometimes, they 35 meters deep down, we can This fish is the and reaches up to 40 The name of the triggerfish which protects it from It uses its strong fins to so that it cannot be pulled The great diversity of is really impressive. Here under the sea, it is But there are also a lot above the water surface, The long beaches, directly bordering on provide a great mix of beaches and bathing lakes. The long sandy beaches for relaxing walks in Not only divers enjoy the it is inviting for everybody in some sporting activities or just to simply [lively instrumental music] If you are interested in sailing or water motorsport activities, of yachts, motor Even so, you should not deny of the Red Sea suffers Especially, polluting the or wild fishing, really Another harmful impact of The anchors rip out and thus, destroy it. Diving tourism has also taken However, initiatives protected areas, and have already made a But people need to to live in communion because some species of the One of them, the One of the Red Sea's is passing us right Even though it is and weighs more than 200 kg, it manages to daintily Here, it truly is The sea turtle seems to like a bird glides in the air. Even though it can move onshore, it spends almost its Sea turtles are not meaning that they do not have Every year, it travels When sea turtles they feed on crayfish, But when they get older, Sea turtles can As I said, the sea turtles The main reason: in a they are known to be a delicacy and their shells are into jewelry and lucky charms. Since 1979, hunting and dealing with sea turtles But still, every year because they are or if they accidentally swim Among the sea turtle and the moray eel calls the They look really If you compare them it is hard to see a difference. Both of them have that are flattened to the sides. The moray's colors are But species that are living in tropical regions are really Unlike other fish, the or pectoral fins, not They move by meandering. Due to the structure the moray eel has to For this process, it has to and then push out the collected This behavior often as a threatening gesture who may start panicking. Even though they might look They sometimes even One still has to pay attention to not hold on to them or In that case they may bite, which can cause a In the worst case scenario, it's even possible Moray eels living in corals that attract a lot of This, however, and only makes them more The Red Sea with offers a lot of great Depending on the size it can have several hideouts, with up to 200 meters Smaller moray species and only hunt in To not cut themselves on the their skin is covered in Moray eels are very and only leave it to Something particularly that the moray eel is nocturnal. This means the moray in the darkness of the night. In addition to that, most of its prey is But do fish actually sleep? For us humans it but most fish don't and therefore can't Nonetheless they must and restore their energy. Especially coral reefs with are often used as a shelter, where the fish can switch which lowers their Here we caught a nocturnal for a shady place he It's really difficult he must feel right now. Something we definitely is that fish never really fall They are always in case of a sudden threat. That's also why this as soon as he notices us. Some species have developed to reduce the threat The porcupinefish is, just like the puffer He therefore needs a different Regarding protection, as well as this have a truly unique technique. They can inflate themselves becoming so big that in the mouth of many predators. The bluespotted ribbon tail ray, who prefers hunting during covers himself with some sand, if he wants to rest When the sun starts the time for all nocturnal That means their day begins for most other living beings. Slowly but surely the sun and induces an Even from the the region of the Red Beneath the water we can experience a The moray eel now starts Its big maw and sharp teeth during the hunt, since it's If the victim is too big the moray can form a knot By doing so, the moray can while ripping it into small Morays have a great which helps them They have four nostrils that These are the best features from the similar-looking eels. All these abilities and traits make the moray a very And its menu is long. Because there is no such thing as a food specialist among them, morays actually eat that consists of meat, But still, bigger about the search for food and so only go hunting once Other animals deal in a totally different way. These triggerfish, for example, hide in caves and There, they can use to clip on to the underground and not drift in Sea turtles as well, sometimes to get some rest somewhere This is mostly what they do when they feel molested For example, pushy divers for a long time, Well, at least the turtle's and we obviously Sea turtles also do not of being able to Especially for turtles the night is a peculiar matter. During the breeding season, and travel around 2,000 They are heading to the using the Earth's magnetic When they have they dig a hole in which all in the darkness Optically, their eggs to birds' and chicken eggs. During breeding time, countless on the same beach, where they can then Interestingly, this is the point when the sex of the If temperatures are lower than 29.9 degrees If they're hotter, it is female. Because all the eggs have been there are a lot of at the end of the [gentle instrumental music] This means that more to survive their difficult into the ocean, because they can get eaten Seagulls especially, and various land animals, The small and soft turtle for those animals. But when all of even hungry predators because, obviously, they can only eat what In that way, these hopefully go and contribute to the raising of the sea turtle's When looking at the we can truly only wish to on our planet forever. [gentle instrumental music] Back to the night The nocturnal predators One of them is the On the menu today: shellfish, Rays feel very comfortable on the soft seafloor Stingrays have the habit of so they cannot be seen while Sometimes they The bluespotted ribbontail from other ray species by his He can change their intensity Buried and with low he is almost impossible to spot. What's good for the stingray can easily ruin a nice vacation. The ray reacts with a sting using The poison is not deadly, but the thorn can Visitors should be with high a stingray population. Big relatives of the stingray behave a little bit differently. For example, the He has more similarities Both like to swim in deeper During the day, they can also closer to the coast. Mostly just to warm up. He has a blackish, with a white stain pattern on His belly is white with Measuring from tail to head, they can reach over 3.3 meters On their tail is a sting to defend themselves Let's hope that he does not into the darker Also, we get to meet Finally he is moving. Now we can see his He is not using his He is using it for steering. For thrust he is To defend himsel, mother little spikes on his body, a, Even humans who eat that have traces of poison Contact can lead to Good for the porcupine fish Let's leave him alone The calm night and beautiful Even the moray eels They go out at night to But how do corals reproduce? Most soft corals But a small number of Depending on the species, there are two different The first method of the ova and where they both meet. The chance for the successful That's why everything has to be perfectly timed In the case of success, the larvae then float in If they land on free they will transform and start spreading The second method is a The coral only ejaculates in the water until they which never left the coral. The fertilized ovum It will not be repelled in the water until The time of day does not While the sun is rising, lots get into their regular The Moray eel now after filling his stomach and Already waiting: The fish climbs and eats the remaining It is an advantage for both. The moray eel has clean teeth Most fish that live in this reef are getting really active now. In this environment, as a fish, you have a strategic advantage if you stay in groups or swarms. Not only birds Fish do it as well. But not every swarm Some fish only group up some only if the Swarms can be separated The proper and the irregular. The jack mackerel, butterflyfish and the bigeyes belong The pure swarm of the same species and age and always has the If one member is left alone, they seem stressed, Quite the contrary if of the rest of the group. Everything is well coordinated. They stay organized between each other. That's why the distance and the speed always Proper swarms can be They live under the constant The coloring is perfectly and a big advantage It's supposed to Besides the proper swarm there which has several similarities They are also known as of only gathering if Fish of various different in such a swarm. Even if the fish are left as well as they Irregular swarms live Swimming in groups or that it is more likely to It is much harder for one fish because for predators, than on all of them at once. In addition, the high in the swarm helps But ironically, this also attracts enemies Swarm formation is when the habitat is large, food portions are widely spread and big enough to provide But swarms are useful When using techniques like prey can be caught much For us as observers, these totally mixed swarms of selfish advantage. They are just incredibly It is amazing how many abilities in the reef's creatures that but are using it in Through diversity, a giant in which the smallest component which is even more than just Our trip through the But the Red Sea is In the variety of there's always something On that note, good