Abortion is a Many people use the when it comes to turn off their minds is wrong no matter raped. So when it comes is that it's that many Christians So if the time comes pregnancy, because think through why more likely to the reality of video, don't think abortion is wrong Rather, my goal for Christians to think So if the time ever know considers having and think about what So what does the Bible say about the Fact number one, God is involved in the creation of a baby. For you formed my me together in my for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your In this passage, David praises God that God formed him while he was in his mother's womb. And what is that out of all the first book of the and verse, it speaks of all that we see. in the beginning, God loved or in the beginning, God judged. It God created the David goes into And he says that as developing as a fetus, all his organs together. So this passage explains that it was God coming into being was fearfully and said from parents a miracle. And I the fact that it doesn't take too after a woman gets to do is eat and stay a baby that is fully capable of growing, seeing, hearing that developing into a place of complete independence. So from what everyone to understand as they look at abortion is the fact stomachs of their that are in the Because in the same way that David a personality, body, all babies that are of how long the mother is pregnant. Fact number two, before Jeremiah chapter Then the word of &quot;Before I formed Before you were born, you a prophet to the nations.&quot; In this passage, God came to Jeremiah was in born, God knew him and prophet. So one attribute of God that's important to know is that that God knows which implies that nor does he forget knowledge, God is Jeremiah was born, God would make and that a servant to the first fact covered in is actively involved with their body, through this verse, is born, God with his this person is and this, while we were our mother's womb, person we would grow that I would choose that I would become a Japan and struggle while I was no more than that, God my stresses in life, didn't just make me before I was born, he already knew me before were to have an baby's life did not person. That person and a future that God an abortion meant to be given are abortion is taken because of individual. So for body, my choice to an abortion, look at belong to God, not to 21. &quot;And you took whom you had borne to to them to be small a matter that delivered them up them.&quot; In this passage, the prophet Ezekiel. his relationship and how he took beyond measure. But God and they And in this passage, these false gods by So Israel, in their to God, killed their God. And what I want called the sons and his. And God says, matter that you delivered them up as I hear the argument, what they're the right to do because it's in her it's her right to with the baby that's inside her. However, from a biblical to God. And back just because these and daughters, God children and called the previous points God's creation and hands. And God gave them them a soul, and potential for life and and say, &quot;Well, their kids to false my baby to the God that people abortion is the idol make the decision to aren't financially because they have or because it may get that having a baby if these are the get an abortion, at is really done for own self through the So going back to the make an argument that so they decide what that that baby is a a unique soul and So the life that is isn't someone's to that I'd like for us chapter 12, where rich man. And as this of building greater barns for all this stuff, the rich man &quot;I have all these easy.&quot; But then God soul will be we must be careful belong to God. And back. Because our originated with him, and he will hold us accountable to how can hardly take souls, how can we The answer is, we belong to God, the And that leads us is the God of life. Jesus said to him, and the life. No one through me.&quot; In Thomas and tells him and the life. And teaches people that protector of life, goal is to steal, that one major theme that repeats itself throughout the Bible is beginning in the life, and through Jesus those who have faith the book of Revelation, original perfect see this pattern is began with God. To their technological And yeah, you can but we couldn't do designs for the Because the truth is and Jesus even truth, and he that he is the to abortion, when it's all about well, a lot of the life of the life. And yeah, I get abortions today get they aren't ready, have enough money, or affect their future. this point is that being the God of life. So when people is that they are which is the opposite that leads us to So fact number five, are sacrificed. &quot;You shall not way, for every hates they have done even their sons and gods.&quot; In this children of Israel, and he in the same way that to their gods. And gods was through it very clear here have done. And here and killed their sons today we try and we use the terms because they sound baby that God created. already, I need is not indifferent, when it comes to stance when it comes is absolute hatred. done anything yet, abortions, isn't it's him trying to be reach people who are repent and turn to So don't confuse tolerance, because absolute evil for a soon and right every is giving everyone it's too late. Back all life. Romans accordance with your heart, you are and the day of wrath judgment of God, according to his talking to the religious people who And Paul tells them judging other is storing up for the one true judge, says this is because of God is one of God alone decides man and is the only rightly deciding because he alone flawless wisdom. So and his eternal power God alone can be And I bring this up abortions, they are acting as a judge and they're deciding that So biblically decision because only judge. And now to seven, children crimes of their verse 16, &quot;Father their children, nor for their fathers. A for his own sin.&quot; In to teach the children and he tells them to death for the nor should sins of their fathers. Moses to bring this people can get retaliate more than wrath. So if a man kills that's murdered may the murderer. But wasn't enough, they kill the murderer's So God makes it responsible for to the rare say not to murder father. And the reason isn't to minimize the note that the main is because people just want to take And many times people will use rape for their own to a conversation Kirk, and Seth, who is made what I found comparison between have abortions. And today fault King David and rightfully so, the husband of with Uriah's wife. that David took the hide his sexual sin, also take the life of their sexual sin. So, rape, should it I would say that the to separate the baby mean by that is to of a rapist, but to completely different from the father and heavy topic. But to topic of abortion, I everywhere to number one, God is baby. Fact number two, knows them. Fact number not people. Fact life. Fact number are sacrificed. Fact of all life. And fact not be punished for close, one of the into me from a young protected. And he told and I'm presented danger or laying my life to use my life to that if the day called for me to what's right and this YouTube video and hopefully to get on abortion so that go through with their become a society and preserves life. currently would encourage you to verses 19 to 20. I witness against you life and death, choose life that you loving the Lord and holding fast to length of days that that your Lord swore to Isaac, and to passage, Moses make a choice to to life or to disobey lead to death. And he to choose life. So for to make, I hope that I hope you also