Every single day, multiple business. It's like. It's Everything's working out Awesome. And then it's doing? Nothing's working My name is Anna-Marie I'm 30 years old and I run Portland, Oregon. Cool Aunt Cleaners is a service. We mainly cater to also clean some commercial We do residential and also do move out cleans, mid-term rental turnover, and then we also do real But before that, I had only month. So I'm pretty used paycheck. I keep things I also have the privilege account, so I might just be every week. But there are through the business that I don't feel like I'm I'm taken care of and I and it's like the sacrifice vision. I've been poor my I've lived paycheck to Growing up, money was I feel like I learned the through all of the hard being raised on the farm struggle, raising all of I had always wanted to move always really scared and expensive to do that. Just kind of pick that out it to be somewhere that was And Portland's just kind of Me moving out to the West this is the most I've ever eggs, milk, anything. It's insane out here. Most of the time I have to cost of everything and just sales. But when I moved out bad, but it wasn't to make It wasn't to be the cool here with a vision which business. I struggled with I feel like when I moved to identified things that I life. One of those biggest a lot of money. So that ten year plan of making seven figure business. My reasoning really comes able to provide for myself I don't think it was until I a house full of girls that up with a stay at home mom like, did chores themselves I did a lot of research and a cleaning company. Are What do you need to start a How much does it cost? And that was one of the cleaning business. One was so low. It's just kind of just starting out with you another draw to start the always your most expensive And if I can physically do not a big barrier to entry, So I'm like, what do I need solo cleaner that I can be? And to me, that was like a I purchased the domain the vacuum cleaning I got little magnets for my insurance that's important. Auto insurance, general I set up the LLC. I hired a graphic designer it to be this kind of like There's also this country Suds In The Bucket. And I representative of, like, The first few months of the working for the tech the proof of concept for ground. So I was doing this I was doing all of the It is physically really In the first month of company, I was able to That was a huge telling I think just as quickly as month, that was kind of And knowing that I wasn't advertising or discounts or that, the proof of concept was proven pretty early on. One time I took on a move It was just me and it took move out real estate over my head. I underbid in the niches. And so I because you're in a higher bigger house, that doesn't money. It actually means money. Because I started naturally was able to take condo buildings because me in terms of time. But I also learned later on were cleaning are more There's a million different company, because you can do with a business with pretty official through a That's pretty spendy. We have an accountant, gas payroll for our employees. Cleaning supplies are do have a relatively that we rent out to store And then we have laundry that we pay for. Since having employees, I or dirtier places with two that, but ultimately I just current capacity. All clients kind of undergo typically just gets the dirt and grime that's been had a cleaning service never had a cleaning They pay 20% deposit, and clean on the books. If service and want to move service, then we book them weekly cleaning services. Move out cleans are probably very hard labor in terms of them looking brand new essentially gutting the brand new. I really do seeing the clients internet like a time all these memories of where I'm heading. And I also and empowering to other don't come from money or just have a big dream Long term vision of where I having one in other major people what I wish I had opportunity to move to a job lined up. And I kind concept here. I want to be the person in generational wealth and my nieces and nephews can to, if they also share the And I think there needs to doing that to show other possible. Not that anyone's cares, but here I am.