The crowd stood in shocked silence as Gyorgy was dragged to his place of execution. piece of apparatus that would test the limits of his wake. They were about to be forced to commit In today's episode of The Infographics Show, in history- this is the gruesome story Gyorgy Dozsa was born in 1470, in Transylvania, In later life, he'd become known as something rebellions during a time of political tyranny and Violence came naturally to Dozsa. As a young killing a number of merchants. His acumen for time he was hired to fight against Ottoman forces, of Hungary, and bestowed with property and gold. Ottomans, Dozsa became a household name with the of crusaders together to fight the Muslim Turks. students, and religious men. He taught them to fight, how to kill. But when the time came to supply Dozsa's men with food and clothing. peasants was the landlords calling them the landlords turned their wrath on the already living in a state of near starvation. landlords, burning down their houses, taking all into a full-scale peasant rebellion. The bodies the countryside; manor houses burned bright of the castles the peasants looted. It turned out partly in thanks to the training led nightmares. These rebels didn't just kill you. wiping out their families at the same time. mercenaries were brought in from Venice and and his men demanded a redistribution of land moving closer and closer to the capital, Buda. who stood against him, threatening to gates... destroy their property, tear down their the midst of the greatest possible torture." for Dozsa that was so vile it would make expanded. He enlisted not just Hungarians, but spread across Eastern Europe. Fear spread among On July 15, the peasants' run as victors Romania. An army of 20,000 men, hired by the one of Dozsa's bands headed by his brother Gergely The payback against the rebels would be extreme. empire: this is what you get when you try to mess fellow nobility being bludgeoned, impaled, set their minds to creating something so sadistic, The punishment had to have a symbolic element. punishment should be fitting for a King. He'd so his captors devised a punishment that would Some of the people were still on his side. The but the nobles rounded up masses of what became a reign of terror in Hungary. The day of Dozsa's execution went something obscenities as a now naked Dozsa, as he was An iron throne sat on a platform above the throne glowed red. At its side, an iron crown "So, you want to be the king of the peasants," "Then we'll make you king of the peasants." the throne. He'd already forgiven those who their statements had almost certainly been and their bones were crushed. No words were John Zapolya, the man who'd led the defeat of and the crowd quieted. The judges who'd behind Zapolya, three rebels were impaled on Someone in the crowd screamed words in support contemplation. A soldier rushed in and grabbed embers of the fire filled the stunned silence. Pipes and violins started to play a mocking tune They threw his body onto the iron seat, his skin squirming, with men at his back holding him The crowd was strangely silent and screams filled the air. Then suddenly, the Dozsa's nerves, providing him with some relief. drove a spike into Dozsa's back. He now his mind completely broken. One of Dozsa's tormentors took a pair of tongs the embers of the fire. The crowd gasped As Dozsa collapsed on his throne, with over the people, the scepter was put One of the last things he saw before he Gergely, being slayed in front of him, his had been promised his admission of guilt would humiliation, another betrayal. was time for the piece de resistance. pliers, tearing off a piece of Dozsa's flesh. He melted flesh now coming off the bones with ease. the throne. Each man, at the point of a sword, was ordered to bite into the had been promised they'd be freed if they ate some of the men bit into the cooked human Dozsa's loyal followers gnawed at his body. they were immediately cut down with of them stepped over to Dozsa's now lifeless The records show Dozsa's body was sliced Hungary for display" as a warning to peasants and threaten the feudal order. If there's a happy cannibalized their boss were indeed set free. Handed Down by the Pope." Or, have a look at