- This video was sponsored by KiwiCo. More about KiwiCo at the end of the show. I know what you're thinking. - Clickbait! - No one has measured the speed The speed of light is exactly We are so sure of it that since 1983, we've actually used the speed of light to define how long a meter is. It's just the distance in 1/299,792,458ths of a second. That definition ensures is exactly this number, no decimals. But hear me out, in this video, I will prove to you that light may never and I can say that because no We can't measure the speed of light the same way we measure Destin: I think we're recording everywhere. What are we doing? - This is a video about Destin: OK Tell me about how you measured fired out of your cannon. - Well, to get the speed of the baseball, you need to know two things. You need to know the and you need to know the baseball to travel So basically we took and that's the speed of the baseball. And in our case, we were shooting so you basically just count the frames and then your clock is internal. Oh, you're going relativity. You're gonna do something - You saw it coming. I can't believe it. Destin: Oh man! The thing I want to ask you Destin: OK Could you measure the Imagine you have a laser through a perfect vacuum Start a timer the instant and then exactly when it Except how do you know when if you and the clock are Okay, so you need two and one at the end, when it detects the laser light. But now, how do you make sure your two clocks are synchronized? Well, you could connect them via a wire and send a pulse from one to the other, but that pulse will travel so it will arrive with a time delay. You might think you can just but it is equal to the time it takes for light to travel one kilometer. That's what we don't know Okay, new plan, start and sync them up first and then send one of the Now, what could possibly go wrong? Well, I'll tell you. The clock at the finish line was moving with respect to the one at the start and special relativity tells relative to stationary observers. So by the time the clock it will no longer be in sync Can I tell you the only Ditch the second clock. Put a mirror at the end and use a single clock at the start to time the full two kilometer round trip. - Wasn't this actually done before? He was on a mountain and with a lantern and there's on the other side of the mountain? I've always wanted to do this. - So, that sounds a little like how the speed of light was first experimentally measured by Hippolyte Fizeau in 1849. He shone a beam of light between the teeth of a rapidly spinning gear to a mirror up on a hill eight kilometers away. And then by increasing he reached a point where passed through the next gap on the gear and so it was observed. So he measured the speed of light to be 313,000 kilometers per second, which is within 5% of the So someone has measured the or have they? What has been measured is the round trip or two-way speed of light, but no one has measured One thing I'm gonna throw at you. And I'm just gonna come out and tell you. It's like what if the speed is different from the speed - Then that sounds like (both laughing) - The question is could you figure it out? The kind of crux of this problem is that the only way people have managed to measure the speed of No one's ever managed to measure the speed of It's possible that the speed of light is half of 'c' in one direction, and then instantaneous Destin: What?! That's possible. Destin: Are you serious? - Think about communicating stranded on Mars. Let's call him... Mark. We send out a signal and get So we imagine our signal and the reply takes 10 but it's possible that our and the reply There's no way we could between these two scenarios. But why would the speed Well, it's possible that there is some preferred direction I mean, our universe but there is also some asymmetry. For example, why is there so much matter relative to anti-matter? And physicists have worked out internally consistent theories of physics in which the speed of light is different forwards and in reverse. The speed of light could up to at the extreme, going and infinitely fast in Destin: Okay, so let me figure this out. So yeah, I kind of don't believe you. I kinda don't believe you. I don't believe you that in one direction, but in the other, but I know you well enough to and put a camera on me unless and that's what scares me about this conversation. That scares me. - Now, you might think it is just simpler that light should travel at the same speed in all directions, but the truth is: that is a convention rather than an Einstein himself pointed this On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies. He spends the first couple of synchronizing clocks at And he says there is no way that we can meaningfully unless we established by definition that the time required by equals the time it requires He's essentially defining in opposite directions is the same. And he puts by definition that this is only a convention. It's known as the Einstein So the idea that the speed of light is the as Einstein would later write is neither a supposition nor a hypothesis about the physical nature of light, but a stipulation that I can make of my own free will to arrive at a definition of simultaneity. That sounds a lot more subjective than how I think most people would imagine the speed of light is defined. Destin: Dude, this is hardcore. (laughs) I've never thought about this. - I didn't think about this before either. I always assumed that when we said the speed of light is c, we meant the one way speed of light. There's no way to define so the only thing we can really define is the two way speed of light. Just look at the way Einstein defined c. It's for the round trip I don't know if you saw but whenever there was a light clock it would always bounce the You would never see a light And this is why the only is constant for all inertial observers is the two-way speed of light. For over 100 years, scientists have tried to to measure the one way Here is a paper published in the American Journal of Physics in 2009 that claims to measure the And here is the paper pointing out that these authors were actually measuring But I'm imagining you for how to measure the so let's go through some of them. I mean, can't we just that shoots at a trillion frames a second so we can actually see light The problem is you're not only seeing the light pass through the object, you're also seeing it measuring the two way speed, not one way. Destin: Here you go. Get a spool of fiber optic cable. I don't know, like 186,000 miles. And you could shine the light here and you have the other and you could shine here and see if it's one second later over here. - The thing is like that fiber is going around and around and around, so it could be that when over the top of the loop, it goes slower and then when it goes on It all averages out in the fiber. And you're essentially in that fiber, so you're What if you center a synchronizing device between your two clocks and Well, if the speed of light is this perfectly synchronizes your clocks. But if the speed of light is one of the clocks will And it will be ahead by so that when you measure you'll find the value to be C even though that was not the This is the same reason GPS The whole GPS system is that the speed of light is If the speed of light is the light pulses from satellites will travel at different speeds so the clocks won't be properly synced. By that, I mean they will always measure c for the one way speed of How about starting with and moving them apart with That way, the time dilation and they'll still be synchronized when they reached the end points. But again, this only works if the speed of light in If the speed of light then so does time dilation. You might think you could move the clocks really, really slowly so that But if the speed of light is different in different directions, you can't just use the standard formula to calculate what that I mean, it could be a So, the reality is we're stuck. We need synchronized clocks to measure the one-way speed of light, but we need to know the in order to synchronize our clocks. Now, this might sound like so I want to go through an example to illustrate just how if the speed of light is not Let's say on Mars, Mark is trying to synchronize At noon, mission control that says this signal was When Mark receives this message, he uses the Einstein to set his clock. He knows the roundtrip so he assumes the signal to reach him. He programs his clock to 12:10 PM and sends a return message. This reply sent at 12:10. The message is received so both parties know the When the clock reads 12:20 on Earth, it simultaneously reads 12:20 on Mars. But now consider what is not the same in both directions. Let's say it is 'c' over and then instantaneous No one knows this, of course, so they continue to use The message is sent from Earth, but now it takes a full But Mark doesn't know this. And as before he assumes the signal took 10 minutes to reach him, so he sets his clock to 12:10 PM even though on Earth, it is now 12:20. Mark then sends this which is instantaneously received on Earth at 12:20 Earth time. The experience for the two The same messages were received with the same local time delays, but their clocks are out What they think is the same moment for the other observer actually isn't and there is no way or correct this error. Imagine if someone on how long did this message It's now 12:20. Well, the message would take but due to the clocks being out of sync, it would arrive at 12:30 Mars time, so Mark would reply 10 minutes, a message that would at 12:40 Earth time. The space-time diagram shows in what you consider to be the same moment at two different locations and in how you define the Einstein chose the convention where the one-way speed of but from an experimental perspective, any other convention is just as valid, up to and including one is C over two one way and And in that case, it's what each observer is seeing Mark would be seeing the Earth but Earth is seeing Mars in real time exactly as it is right now. And this effect wouldn't and you could see stars not as they looked centuries ago, but exactly as they One of the things is you when it reaches you and you what journey it took to get to you. You just see it and it's there, So an instantaneous is just as good as one - This is breaking my brain. Yeah, I mean, it's kind - It is unknowable. That's the whole point of the video. Is to say, we've all agreed and this is based on something We've all agreed to just say but the truth is the whether it's 'c' or 'c' over or anything in between. As long as the roundtrip none of physics breaks and that's the crazy thing. - So if we can never measure and if it makes no difference to any of the laws of physics, then what's the point in Well, that is certainly in a debate that has Some physicists appeal to Occam's razor. Isn't it just simpler if light in all directions? Most working physicists just accept the convention but I think it's important to point out that it is just a convention, not an empirically verified fact. Personally, I find it fascinating that this is something about the universe that is hidden from us. Sure, the round trip speed of light is 'c', but does the one way speed And if it doesn't, what does that mean for the When is right now on Mars? Does it even make sense to talk about things happening at the same time if they're separated by distance? Y'know maybe this is an odd quirk of the universe and there's no good reason for it or maybe, when physics takes our inability to measure will be the obvious clue to Quantum Mechanics, space And we'll wonder why we Hey, this video was sponsored by KiwiCo. They create awesome projects I use their crates with my son and they are a lot of fun Now, for viewers of this video, they are offering 50% off just go to KiwiCo.com/veritasium50. And I'll put that link down Now, I think this is a fantastic offer because these crates are a great resource for learning at home, which is something anyone with kids is doing Plus all the supplies you which means you don't which is again ideal. Now my kids are still young, but KiwiCo offers eight subscription lines for different age groups I do the koala crates with but the kit I'm actually showing I built an infinity for talking about the There's lots of round Now, can I just tell you how useful it is to have a box turn up at that is packed with fun things to make? All the supplies you need and hours of entertainment right there? Plus my son and I are learning every month and we're connecting. It's become a special So, KiwiCo is a perfect My son actually got his And I just think what other and doing throughout the year? So for me, that's the most important part. I want my kids to feel like they can make and discover things on their own. And these crates give So, click the link below to learn more and for 50% off the go to KiwiCo.com/veritasium50. I want to thank KiwiCo for and I want to thank you for watching.