Welcome to this one hour English fluency Now, to become fluent in English, you have to in English, all the confusing grammar rules, and And that's exactly what you'll do. By the end of this master class, you'll feel Welcome back to JForrest English. Of course, I'm Jennifer. Now let's get started. First, in this master class, let's review Well, we're going to do this as a quiz. So you're going to see a sentence and you need to choose the best option. Let's get started with question one. MMM, to text Sue. It's her birthday today. The correct answer is C Don't forget to text Sue. It's her birthday today. The keyword in this question is 2, Now there's only one possible where you can have the infinitive, Now, if this question didn't have to and it was just the base verb, well then AB and Question 2. Mary went jogging today. MMM. Of the rain. The correct answer is B in spite of Of in spite of and despite have the same meaning. But you don't say despite of. You just say despite. If you want to learn more about this, I'll leave the link in the description below. Question three. I think I'm allergic to your cat. I can't stop. The correct answer is B sneezing. Now this is a tricky 1 because you can have and you can have stop plus gerund stop When we're talking about no longer doing an the context of the question, we're talking about If you want to learn more about this, I'll Question 4. If you don't know the meaning of a word, you can in a dictionary and the answer is Now this one is a vocabulary question because you To look something up is another way to say to Now, we use this all, all the time because every So I use this expression Hey, what time does the restaurant close? Can you look it up? I don't know. Can you look it up? Oh, we need to look it up. We should look that up. You'll use this every single day. Question five, my doctor. Me. I should exercise more and the answer is a Now this is one that students confuse a lot. I hear students say, told to me. I told to her, no, that We don't want to someone get rid of that too. I told her. I told you she told me so that's what we need. And also I hear students say say No, we don't want me after said. She said I should exercise more. We want applause after said. If you want to learn more about this, You can find the link in the description below. Question six My boss me to her My boss invited me to her dinner party. Now this one is both a vocabulary question but it's also because of sentence structure. We could change the sentence For example, my boss suggested We could say that, but I'd have to So all the options could work if The only logical choice with My boss invited me because you My boss invited me to the movies, to her Now if you want to learn more about suggested which isn't correct, I'll leave a link to a Question seven, Sorry I didn't quite what you said and the answer is a Sorry I This is an expression to catch something I didn't hear what you said, but notice option D is in the past form So it has the same meaning So a catch is exactly the same. Now this is an expression especially since you probably struggle So if somebody says something to you can say, sorry, I didn't catch that. I didn't catch that, I didn't quite catch that. Quite is just a word we add to mean a little bit. I didn't quite catch that. So add that to your vocabulary. You'll use it all the time. Question 8 I don't sleep in now but and the answer is BI used to. I used to sleep in on weekends. Now notice all the options are slightly all grammatically correct if But for here. We're. Talking about an action that So an action you routinely did in And for that we need use. With AD, you don't hear it in I used to work at the bank, So a routine action in the past, Students confuse this sentence I have a detailed lesson on this. You'll find the link in the description below. Question nine. I don't need help, but thanks. MMM. And the answer is, but thanks for offering. Thanks for offering. Thanks for offering. This is one that I hear a Now notice here I have thanks for You must use the gerund verb for offering. Thanks for and then you can use a Thanks for your help. Thanks for the offer, your offer. Thanks for offering. And your final question #10 the film sounded And the answer is D It turned This is a vocabulary question because you need We use to turn out when we're talking So let's say you're trying a new recipe You've never made this recipe before. Your friend could say, how How did the cookies turn out? Your friend is asking about the end result. Basically your friend is asking were they good? Were they bad? How did the recipe turn out? And you could reply, oh, it was awesome. They were delicious. The best chocolate chip cookies I've ever had. And in this context, they're How did the movie turn out? It was really boring. It turned out to be really boring. So how did you do with the quiz? Put your score in the comments below. And if you learn some new expressions make sure you practice your new in the comments below as well so you get Are you enjoying this lesson? If you are, then I want to tell you This is my premium training program where the movies, YouTube, and the news. So you can improve your listening vocabulary with natural expressions, Plus, you'll have me as your personal coach. You can look in the description or you can go to my website and Now let's continue with our lesson. Now let's move on and test your vocabulary So here's how the test is going to work. You're going to see a sentence and there's And then you're going to be option B, and then you have to decide Now, when I give you the Of course, that isn't very long, right? So feel free to hit pause, and then hit play when you're Sound good? Are you ready to start the quiz? Let's go with question number one. Do you think the discount will I'll give you 3 seconds. Appease the client. Appease is a verb. We use this when you want to want in order to make them happy or in So I'm giving them a discount to make them happy. It will appease them. Now if you said B appeal, keep in mind It means to be attractive to. But grammatically, the sentence is it's appeal to the client. And because I don't have the preposition Question 2. She's a very employee. Option one. Option 2. The correct answer is a diligent. She's a very diligent employee. To be diligent, this means to be careful or For example, I worked diligently So notice in this case, it's an adverb. Diligently. I worked diligently on the report all week. Question three, Sorry, I can't help. I'm at math A or B be inept. I'm inept at math To be inept at something. This means to not be skilled or I'm inept at math #4 She's A or B. A gregarious B is incorrect. Grammatically, we can't say most great. You would say greatest, right? So grammatically, B doesn't work. A gregarious to be gregarious. When someone is described as gregarious, They enjoy being around other people. So what about you? Let us know in the comments. Would you describe yourself Do you enjoy being around other people? Are you very social? Let us know in the comments so you can practice that word #5 We need to with A or B. The answer is B follow up with grammatically. A is incorrect. You don't follow out with someone. You follow up with someone and a discussion or conversation I could say I already followed up I already continued the conversation Number six, that's a difficult When you grasp something, it simply So it's the same as saying that's That's a difficult concept to grasp #7 you should all your debt to reduce your interest When you consolidate two or more things, So if I said the two firms consolidated last year, this means that last year there was firm consolidated, there's one firm, so The book discusses his illness A or B A subsequent, his subsequent This has a simple meaning. Subsequent just means something So first he had his illness and after his resignation that came after his illness. We commonly use this as an So I could say he moved to Australia, And I'm using subsequently to let you know And that's something else is He moved to Australia, subsequently he got The correct answer has to be B, under pressure, The preposition you need is under And that's simply when you have a lot you're feeling anxious, You can use this positively and say so when I have a lot of work I I work really well. Under pressure #10 Women face a Well, ostrich is a bird, so women don't They face a lot of obstacles. Obstacles, An obstacle is something physical like a roadblock or it can be So it's something that blocks That's an obstacle #11 Thank you for your remark. A or B. The answer is be pertinent, Pertinent remark. When something is pertinent, it means it's So let's say you're having a conversation think the point is very relevant You can say that's pertinent, that's pertinent, that's relevant, related to You can that to the interns, A or B, B delegate. You can delegate that to the interns. When you delegate something is when you give someone else responsibility So when you're doing a task that you can say, I wish I had I wish I had someone who I could give this task A or BA heavy? B is a direct translation. It's not something that we use in natural English. It sounds awkward and unnatural. A heavy is the adjective that When your workload. Is heavy. It simply. Means you have a lot of work to do. And what's the opposite of heavy? The opposite is light, right? Light. So when you don't have a lot of work to Heavy workload, light workload. So what about you? How would you describe your workload right now? Would you say it's heavy or light? Let us know in the comments. So you practice this new expression #14 The police A or BB Ascertain ascertain. When you ascertain something, So to ascertain the cause of the cause of the explosion, to understand why. So when the police do understand why, why they discover it, they can say we've finally It was a faulty gas line. And then they can tell you the Finally, your. Last question in the quiz #15 you've A or B? The answer is B procrastinating. You've been procrastinating all week. When you procrastinate, it means but that's something has to be And why? Well, generally because it's unpleasant, like cleaning the bathroom, doing the dishes. It's unpleasant. Or it's simply boring, like organizing So you delay doing it, but it has to be done. That's procrastinating. So how'd you do on the quiz? Was it easy for you? Was it difficult for you? Either way, you've just added so have fun practicing these new words. Let us know in the comments how Choose 1-2 or three of them and so you get comfortable with them and Now let's keep going and test your vocabulary So here's how this video is going to work. I'm going to show you a sentence and. You're. Going to have two options, and you have to decide Now I'll only show the sentence for. A couple seconds. So make sure you hit pause, take your Hit. Play and I'll show you the answer and Are you ready to go #1 there? Were people at the party than I had expected? The answer is. Fewer there were. Fewer people at the party than I had expected. And the reason is we use fewer with. Countable nouns. You can count how many people there are, but we use less with uncountable nouns, You can't count rain. There was less rain this year compared to last. Year. #2 I'm just in the of a. Big. Project. And the answer is midst. Midst. This is a tricky one simply When you hear this in spoken English, It's easy to confuse this with mist. And to be in the midst of something is So I'm in the middle of a big. Project. #3. Wow, that shirt really your hair? And the answer is complements with an E. These two words sound exactly It's spelling that is different, Complement in this example is when one thing. Your. Shirt combines really well Hair. Compliment with an eye is when I love your shirt. Thanks for the compliment. If you want to learn more about can look in the description for Number four. That movie had quite an on me. The answer is. A fact. It had quite an effect on me. The pronunciation is very similar, a fact, a fact. There's a slight difference, but the spelling and a fact is a noun, and we need a noun. You know that because there's With the verb I could say that movie affected me. If you want to learn more about in the description for a link on that #5. Quizzes are a great way to your skills. To hone your skills. Again, similar in pronunciation, This is an expression to hone one skills. This is simply to improve one's skills. Number six, I didn't know at the party. I didn't know anybody at the In the English language, we You can only use one negative in a clause. And since I already have didn't, I have to use anybody #7 I don't Carrots either. Now this is the same as #6. Because. I don't don't. Is a negative neither. Is also a negative, so we can't use it. We want either. I don't like. Carrots either to use, neither I could say. You don't like carrots? Neither do. I neither do I. If you want to learn more you can look in the description for a video I She has more than she needs. Similar in pronunciation than then, but We use in. Comparisons more than less than, fewer It's used in time. References. First I'll eat lunch, then I'll go. For a walk. #9 Joining social clubs is for all purposes the solution to loneliness This is an expression in English. For all intents and purposes. This simply means in almost every situation. In virtually every situation. But when you say this at a natural for all intents and purposes Intensive is a word that Intense and is not something but the correct expression This is a very useful business It isn't really used in casual conversation too We can discuss this further after the meeting. Further and further both. Mean more. We can discuss this more in We use further when we're and we use farther when For example, we need to walk farther. We literally need to. Walk more. We need to walk farther. To. See the waterfall. If you want to learn more about this, look Video. #11 You can down here, you can lie down here. Lay and lie. They have the same meaning. But lay is transitive. It needs an object. For example, lay the baby down You lay something, but lie is Lie down here, lie yourself Number 12, that sweater. Is too for you? That sweater is too loose for you. This one is confusing because of the. Spelling. Do I need one O or two? It's easy to forget. Lose with one O is the opposite of win. Did you lose the game? Did you win the game? Did you lose the game loose with two O's? When we're talking about clothing is So this shirt I'm wearing is not But this sweater, for example, is loose #13. We should worked harder. We should have worked harder. Now this is a mistake that many native speakers which is the grammatically correct choice, but we Of you should have. You should have. You should have. Worked harder. So sometimes native speakers forget because that's what it sounds So in spoken English, you can absolutely say you. Should have you should have worked. Harder, but in written English. Just remember that the correct choice is have #14. I shouldn't have to the party. I shouldn't have gone to the. Party our verb here. Is go, the past simple is went, This structure requires the past Yesterday I went to the party. I've gone to three parties Do you trust? The most? Whom do you? Trust the most who and whom. It can be very tricky for students and Just ask yourself. Do you need she or her? Do you need a subject or an object? She or her, he or. Him. I trust her the most. We need an object, not a subject. So you use whom? Who is your friend? She is my friend. In this case we need a subject. So we use who? So how'd you do with this? Quiz Share your score in the comments below just do some practice sentences and remember to Links to other. Videos that go into more depth on these? Confusing. Words, Are you ready for your next test? Now let's test your knowledge Question one, Please Bear me Now, I'm only going to give you so hit pause and take as much time Please bear with me while I look up your file. Question 2. The phrasal verb to attend to means Remember, I'm going to explain means in detail with examples after You need to cool. You need to cool down. #4. The phrasal verb for repair is. The phrasal verb for repair is fix Discuss something so you To hash out, to hash out number six, If someone is being too serious, Lighten up. You're being too serious. Lighten up #7 After years of studying My hard work has finally paid off #8 We We shouldn't rule out hiring a graphic My boss chewed me out for being late again and #10 let's give everyone a few minutes So how did you do with that quiz? Was it easy? Difficult. Share your score in the comments below. And now I'm going to explain every So let's do that. Now to bear with someone, this It has a simple meaning. It means to be patient with someone. So we use this a lot with customer service representatives or anytime someone Now it's very common when that person say please bear with me, please So notice our verb tense. That's in the imperative. The imperative. So we're starting with the base verb. Now, if you use this verb in other The past simple is bore Any idea? It's born, That's right, born but pronunciation is exactly the same. In the past. Simple, you could say I bore I was patient with him for 20 minutes. And in the past participle, you Perfect, you might say. I've born with you for 20 minutes. Our next phrasal verb is to attend to. Now notice we're using the verb attend. And I could say last night I attended That's just a regular verb because I attended the party, I went to the party. But if we use the phrasal verb I could say I attended to the party. Now in this case, this means that I worked So how could you work on a party? Well, you could work on organizing a party. So organizing all the details, sending cleaning the apartment, getting the So pay attention because the verb attend and the Our next phrasal verb to cool down. To cool down. We use this when someone is really angry, You can say cool down, cool down South. Let's say a client has been sending you a lot irritated, annoyed, frustrated with that client. But before you call that client, You need to take a minute and to call that client when you're You need to cool down, relax, chill. Our next phrasal verb to fix something up. When you fix something up, it means you repair Now, in this case, when you change, It could be that it's functioning, but you want You fix it up. So for example, I could say Sally loves fixing up old cars, so she repairs them. But it could also mean that she just changes them. Maybe the car is working She changes the color, or She fixes it up. Now, this is a very common phrasal verb around the house because there's always To change, to repair, to improve. Our next phrasal verb, to hash something out. When you have something out, it means you talk And you do that because you want to get agreement. You want to get agreement on the details. So you can use this when planning a party, planning a And of course with a project or the date, the time, who's doing what. So you need to hash out those details. You need to talk about them to get agreement. OK, we agreed to the time of the conference. We hashed it out. We hashed out the time of the conference. Our next phrasal verb to lighten up. Now remember, I already taught you to cool frustrated, annoyed, and you want to relax. Well, when you tell someone to lighten But they're not angry, frustrated, or annoyed. They're just being too serious. That's it. They're being too serious. They don't have a sense of humor. So maybe you were joking around with a Co you just wanted to have some fun and So you might say lighten up, lighten You're too serious. So someone who's always like this, they're not laughing, they're You might want to tell that person But just remember it isn't the same as cool down, Lighten up, you're too serious. That's the difference between the two. Our next phrasal verb to pay off. Now, when something pays off, it means So let's say you spent the last month and you took the exam and you. Passed. You got a really high mark. You can say all my studying paid off. So remember, something pays off. All my studying paid off. I now see the benefit of all the studying I did. So we use this a lot for any kind of It can be mental work for studying for your job. But it can. Also be physical work as well. So all your dieting, your exercising you're stronger, you see the So we can use this with both mental work and We use this when something prevents So a classic example, we have Now COVID is preventing So we can say COVID ruled out traveling, right? COVID prevented traveling. COVID ruled out traveling. Our next phrasal verb to chew someone out. To chew someone out. This is when you tell someone but you tell them angrily so you don't tell them. Calm it calmly. You know you made a mistake. You shouldn't have done that. No, you're angry, so you might yell a little. You might use language that you normally wouldn't. You're angry somebody did something Maybe your boss chewed you out because So your boss was not calm. Your boss was angry. Why were you late? You shouldn't have been late. Why haven't I fired you yet? He chews you out. Or maybe you're on a sports you out because you missed an important practice. Now, if somebody chews you what phrasal verb goes with that Cool down, right? Because if somebody's angry, why were you late? You can say cool down, cool down, relax, Our final phrasal verb to settle in. When you settle in, it means you get And that new environment is generally a And of course, at the beginning, you're not But then you need some time to settle in. So settle in just means to get So let's say you moved to a new city and a few weeks later a friend could ask Have you settled in? So they're just asking you, do you And then you might reply back and say, yeah, Now that you know how to use how about we do the exact same quiz from the From the first time. To this time. So let's do that quiz again. Now question one. Please bear me while I look up your file. Please bear with me while I look up your file. Question 2. The phrasal verb to attend to means to attend You need to cool, You need to cool is The phrasal verb for repair is fix Something so you can reach an agreement is. To hash out to hash out number six. If someone is being too serious, Lighten up. You're being too serious. Lighten up #7 After years of studying My hard work has finally paid off #8 We we shouldn't rule out hiring a graphic My boss chewed me out for being late again and #10 let's give everyone a few minutes Was it easier this time? I'm sure it was. Did your score improve? Share your score in the comments below. You're doing amazing. This is your final Test, and we're going to Question 1. The phrasal verb used to invite I'm only going to give you 3 seconds take as much time as you need, and when The phrasal verb is to ask out question two. If you like a genre of music, you I'm really into country music. Remember, I'm going to explain every single this test is difficult #3 If a movie made you that movie really brought me down #4 you can say cheer, cheer up, cheer up #5 Do you Do you have time to pick up number six? You see that box? Can you at the post office? Can you drop it off #7 We ended up at home. We ended up staying at home #8 Which phrasal turn down #9 When you complete a form, This is true #10 how did you that Maria was fired? How did you find out? So how did you do with that quiz? Was it easy or difficult? Share your score in the comments. And now I'll explain every phrasal Number one, to ask someone out. Now pay attention to the sentence structure You only ask someone out. You don't ask something out. And here's the reason why. When you ask someone out, it's to invite them on So to ask someone out, you invite them on a date. A date is a romantic evening spent with someone. Of course, it doesn't have to be an evening. It could be a morning coffee date But I just said evening because most So let me give you an example sentence. Why hasn't Jim asked Maria out yet? He's obviously into her. So notice here, why hasn't Jim asked Maria out? Ask someone out, or someone is Maria. Now, of course, you need the So Jim is inviting Maria on a date. A date is always romantic. Right Now, Maria could say no, and we're going to talk about that So let me give you that example again. Why hasn't Jim asked Maria out yet? He's obviously into her. Now you might be wondering, He's obviously into her. Well, that's our next phrasal To be into someone. Now here I'll point out that you can also be into something, but first let's When you're into someone, I'm sure but it means to like someone romantically. Now the context is really important because I'm I'm really into Jack Johnson. Now when I say that, oh, I'm I don't like Jack Johnson romantically, But I don't like him romantically So if you use into someone, but there is this meaning of liking and So if I said Jim is into Maria, But if I'm talking about being into it's possible possible that I just like So keep that in mind. Now, remember I said you Now, in this case, we're talking about liking So I was really into Jack Johnson when I was Jack Johnson is an amazing musician. He plays guitar and he plays ukulele, so I was really into him and mainly when I Those are two activities I don't really do It isn't a priority for me to do those in my life, although one day I would So you could talk about any hobby or activity. I'm really into going hiking. I'm really into playing video games. So we use this with hobbies and activities mainly. Our next phrasal verb to bring someone down, to But there's that transition because that person them down, and now they're not happy, or they're So I could say that movie really brought me down. Now notice here my subject is the movie. The movie brought me down. I could also use a person. My boss brought me down so something That movie brought me down. So I was happy, and then I watched the movie probably because the movie was very sad or So you can think of this as the opposite. To cheer someone up is to make them happier. Now we commonly use this in the imperative. Cheer up, cheer up, Julie, cheer So we commonly use this in the imperative, For example, I could say I took my friend out So that's the reason why I to cheer her up #5 to pick This is one of the most common phrasal verbs. You probably know it, but did you You pick someone up and And that's when you take an object or a So of course, you might know it in the sense of I pick my kids up after school or I That's probably how you know it. But you can use it with a something. Maybe your husband could call you and say, oh, Can you pick milk up? So you're going to go to a and take it to another location, your home. Can you pick milk up on your way home? It's very common to get a call from someone and Can you pick this up on your way home? And that something is a grocery So now you know how to use it And what's the opposite of to pick someone up? Well, is to drop someone off. And you can also drop something something off, it's to leave someone So of course, you could say I I dropped my friend off at the airport. Now you might also ask someone can you So they take the letter and they leave the post office or a mailbox. Can you drop this letter off on your way to work #7 to end up to end up is We use it to say that you eventually do So you might say, I ended up asking Julie out. I ended up asking Julie out. Who is our first example? I can't remember. It wasn't Julie, it was Jim and Maria. So let me give that again. Jim ended up asking Maria out. So remember before I said why So now remember to end up that's So after a period of time, so Jim ended up Remember I said at the beginning, I'm If Maria, I was going to say Julie again, if That's our next phrasal Now you can also turn something down. Can you think of something How about a job offer, something like that. So to turn someone down, to turn something proposal to do something and you say no, you So Maria turned Jim down. Now you might also say I I was turned down. Now you could turn that into an active sentence. They turned me down. I was turned down by the company. They turned me down South. In this specific phrasal verb, it So I would get comfortable with the passive, but you can use it in the active of course OK, so notice here I gave you 2 prepositions. I know students get confused. What's the difference There is no difference. So specifically with forms, that's the When you're entering information into You're also filling out that form. It doesn't matter which preposition you use. And honestly, I use both of them interchangeably. So I just change between fill in, fill out. I use both and you can too. So if you go to an office, they form or after you fill out this Notice, drop it off at reception. So take it to reception and leave it there. Drop it off at reception. Our final phrasal verb to find out, to you learn something, something So maybe going back to our character Jim. So maybe Jim could say, how did you So maybe Jim is a little embarrassed. He thought this was just a secret nobody knew. But then a friend try to cheer him up because he Notice all our phrasal verbs so Jim could say, So how did you discover this? How did you learn this? How did you find this out? And we use this when you want So I might say I need to find find have a package I need to drop off, I need to find that out. So learn or discover that specific information. So now that you understand all of these from the beginning again and then you can compare So let's do that same quiz now. Question 1 the phrasal verb romantic date is the phrasal verb is to ask out. Question two, if you like a genre of music, I'm really into country music #3 If a movie made that movie really brought me down #4 you can say cheer, cheer up, cheer up #5 Do you Do you have time to pick up number six? You see that box? Can you at the post office? Can you drop it off #7 We ended up at home. We ended up staying at home #8 Which phrasal turn down #9 When you complete a form, This is true #10 how did you that Maria was fired? How did you find out? So was the quiz easier the second time? I'm sure it was amazing job with this lesson. So how did you do with all of those quizzes? Share your score in the comments below. And I want you to download this free on how to speak English fluently and confidently. You can download it from my website right here. And whenever you're ready, get