The German battleship Bismarck was one of the most advanced warships at its commission, yet during its first operation it was struck critically by Fairey Swordfish biplane bombers, which look quite archaic and old-fashioned. Even more puzzling is that during this attack only 15 Swordfish were sent against the Bismarck, of which 13 attacked, and not a single one was shot down. Was this pure luck, or is there another explanation? I've read various accounts on forums, yet since I was rather unaware about the basics of naval anti-aircraft gunnery, I was quite cautious. Thankfully Martin sent me a book from my wish list so we can take now an approach based on a solid foundation. Thus before we take a closer look at the various factors concerning the Bismarck and the Swordfish, we need to address the general problems that ship-based anti-aircraft gunnery faced in the Second World War. Generally there were 3 types of guns: heavy AA like the German 105-millimeter, medium like the 40-millimeter Bofors, and light like the various 20 millimeter guns and .50-cals The light AA guns were usually aimed with the Mark One Eyeball and a rather simple kind of sight. The heavy AA guns used various forms of fire control systems that performed calculations on different inputs. The medium AA guns were something in between but usually used at least an external director that allowed the operator to get away from the muzzle blast. In the case of the more complex systems of the heavier AA guns, these controlled several guns at once Thus the number of targets to engage at once was limited. In general, these fire control systems had to account for a lot of factors based on the aircraft's range, speed, altitude, and direction, the fire control system needed to determine the bearing and elevation of the gun But it gets even more complicated, because the ship was also rolling and pitching while moving forward, so these three values have to be accounted as well, and there was wind which affected the aircraft AND shells. Additionally, the timing of the fuse must be calculated as well. Note that heavy AA guns usually use timed fuses, versus light to medium guns usually use contact fuses. Now considering everything is accounted for, well there are still some inaccuracies as well For instance timed fuses usually weren't that on-time. The gunfire was also sometimes not on point but distributed in various patterns This meant correcting the gunfire by observation had an inherent problem, since the spotter might correct the fire based on an outlier, not the shell that was closest to the fire control systems' calculations. Additionally we should not forget that nearly all fire control systems used during the Second World War were mostly designed in the Interwar Period, so the assumed effectiveness was based on experience from testing and training. These issues were all addressed in a report on testing the AA guns on the Bismarck. As you can see it makes now a bit more sense that no Swordfish was shot down, still the question remains were there specific factors with the Bismarck as well? Now it is important to note that the Bismarck's AA fire wasn't completely ineffective. Although no Swordfish was shot down, several of them were definitely hit so stating that the Bismarck basically missed seems to be incorrect, considering this source: Additionally the last two Swordfish didn't press for the attack due to the AA fire from the Bismarck. If these statements are valid we can assume the following: the AA fire from the Bismarck was accurate enough to drive away at least two attackers, and also hitting at least one aircraft [???] after that had 175 holes and wounded two of its three crewmembers additionally the total number of Swordfish damaged by AA fire was five. Of course we don't know what kind of shells' holes we are talking about, was it shrapnel from the time fused heavy AA, or from hits by light AA shells? It was probably a mix of both. And it seems that biplanes in particular were rather resilient against AA fire, as this report about a Japanese biplane notes: This was likely due to the fact that these planes were, like the Fairey Swordfish, mostly covered by fabric. As such, the context fuses probably just perforated and passed through without exploding and hence not inflicting any substantial damage Alternatively, it was also possible that the shells just didn't pack enough punch to severely damage the Swordfish. Generally lethality of AA shells was overestimated for quite some time. Additionally the AA guns on the Bismarck were of limited quality. The eight twin 37 millimeter guns were only capable of semi-automatic firing, Whereas the 20 millimeter AA guns were mostly twelve older C/30, in single mounts. and only two C/38 in quadruple mounts, the famous Flak-Vierling. As a result, it comes down to the heavy 105-millimeter AA guns on the Bismarck to score close enough hit with the time fused shells Now since they were heavier guns, they were directed by a fire control system which was fed with various data to determine where to fire Friedman notes that the performance of this system was apparently poor. He concludes this from the following fact: This was further complicated by two additional factors. First, Bismarck was evading the Swordfish in heavy seas during the attack, thus even a better fire director probably would have had a hard time as well. Second, the Swordfish was a rather slow plane. The fire control system was not designed for this. But there was another crucial factor that limited the effectiveness of the heavy AA guns: According to the translated report of the Artillerieversuchskommando fur Schiffe -- The Artillery Testing Command for Ships The report goes into further details that are highly complicated and concludes Now the C/37 mounts made up half of the heavy AA gun mounts of the Bismarck and these were positioned in the aft section, versus the older C/31 mounts were used in the front. As such it seems that the heavy AA guns would have to be aimed manually against low-flying aircraft. and the Swordfish came in low, since they were performing torpedo bombing. Additionally for all AA guns on the Bismarck it is noted that the various problems of short-circuits and/or water damage furthermore, the two aft fire directors of the AA guns were missing their protection against weather and shrapnel. Which brings us to the final aspect, namely the weather conditions and the time of day. According to official dispatches from the British Admiralty, the strike first launched late in the evening. other sources note that the attack began around 20:55 and ended around 21:25. As such visibility was already lowered. Furthermore the weather according to the British report was quite unsuitable. Limited visibility reduces both the accuracy of AA fire and the AA fire correction by spotters. Additionally heavy seas make both manual and device control aiming more difficult as well. To conclude: although at first the attack of the Fairey Swordfish planes with torpedoes against the battleship Bismarck appears like a fight David against Goliath, a closer look at the naval anti-aircraft gunnery in general, the equipment of the Bismarck, and the specifics of the engagement clearly show that the presumed weaknesses of the Swordfish attack were actually strengths. First: the low-level attack required for dropping torpedoes reduced the effectiveness of Bismarck's heavy AA battery, due to problems with elevation control from the fire control system. Second: the low speed of the Swordfish limited the heavy AA fire control capacity since it was not designed for targets at low speed. Third: the light AA guns of the Bismarck had mostly limited rates of fire and, like the heavy AA, affected by evasive maneuvers, heavy seas, and limited visibility. Fourth: although the lightweight construction of the biplanes made it look rather archaic and fragile, The shells of the light AA guns of the Bismarck were likely passing through, since the contact fuses weren't set off due to lack of resistance from the fabric that covered the Swordfish. Alternatively it also possible that the lethality of the shell was just not enough. These factors would also explain that the Swordfish crews reported accurate AA fire against them Including damaged planes and wounded personnel since the hits that were scored were likely mostly form light AA guns that pass through Plus the time-fused heavy shells likely were not close enough to significantly damage the planes but close enough for discomfort. Now finally, I want to say a big thank-you here to Martin for sending me the book from my wishlist and also supporting me on Patreon. As always, sources are linked in the description. Thank you for watching and see you next time.