Whatever the altitude drivers are on the road to In India. Baldev's two trucks located at 3500 meters above sea level. Driving on Indian roads is passes at more than 5000 meters, traffic the journey is not easy. In Nepal, will Chibou arrive Isolated in the heart of the mountains, this locality is only connected by the Karnali Highway. Few drivers especially during the monsoon period, make driving even more dangerous. welcome to the roads In Nepal, the Karnali River region is In the heart of these mountains, the villages remained cut off from the rest The inhabitants lived there Without roads, they only had to walk to reach, But today the mountains because since 2003, Karnali Highway, the Karnali Highway. Karnali Highway is a narrow, winding cordon With its 250 kilometers of track Karnali Highway is doing well It was also in 2003 that Chibou, 27 years old, Regularly, he refuels He started in 4x4 before Chibou is one of the rare people who Despite his experience, he never takes - With this incense, I pray to the divinity. I ask him that my journey be Some believe in it and others But if you pray, it's good for your soul. Your journey is in the hands of the gods. Relying on the gods is common the slightest collision at the bend of a bend, Personally, until today, But one day, while we were driving and his truck overturned, The truck in front of me which is an accident It was I who had to rescue him Despite these dangers, represents a real opportunity for In Surkhet, all traders know this - Construction of Karnali Highway Because we did a lot of business The 1st vehicles that reached Jumla Nepalese. When the army the residents had a 3-day party. Karnali Highway had to do But this track has the reputation of being - Karnali, it is a very difficult road Every time I go down this road, And when the monsoon season - It's a challenge to go You have to be an ace driver to go there. - The first time I'm there As a result, volunteers for - I won't go because - This year, I know there A driver and his assistant died. - I even wanted to stop working - It's playing with your life. If you go there, However, it is on this road that Chibou, For now, it's on the streets of Today, Chibou comes to take to Jumla, To get there, he plans At 12 hours of driving per day, its average speed will be around 10 he must take all precautions - You have to balance the truck well. The weight must be I only carry food. It's drink and noodles. Its loading completed, His departure is scheduled for dawn. 1000 kilometers from Surkhet, a mountain man too. In his native village, Baldev has his own farm where - This is my orchard. There are mango trees. Between 2 trips, he likes to recharge his batteries - My name is Baldev Singh, I'm a driver, I do I really like my job. Thanks to him, build my house. And I was able to develop my farm. At 18, I worked in I was a salesman and in this store, I left with him It took me 3 years. When he takes a break from Baldev leads a peaceful life, Tomorrow he must head back due north. A journey of 600 kilometers awaits him To reach its destination, The Col du Rotengle at 3980 meters, the Chuluun pass at 5060 meters, A journey that Baldev has made several times - Above Manali, There is traffic, the road is bad, At first it's okay because but then it gets complicated. After Keelung, the weather is variable. There is good and bad. In any case, there is no At the Baralaka pass, we are much higher. We're starting to have problems We have these problems up to the Tanglang pass. Baldev confides little and communicates when he is traveling. His own way But his absences always end - It's true that we're worried about him, we And when he comes back. We have stress all day long, Baldev will not say more to his. This evening, He knows when he's leaving, he has no In Nepal, it is 5 a.m. If he leaves at dawn, it's to be located halfway before dark. As for Baldev, he's another trucker his uncle. Thanks to his courses, Chibou knows how to hold a steering wheel he even got his license - If we look at my papers But in reality I'm 25 years old. I wanted to start as soon as possible. My father said I was 2 years older. That's how I was able to start young. From now on, it is Chibou who transmits For 2 months, Harijan, 17 years old, - He's my brother-in-law. He had stopped his studies. Suddenly, he no longer did anything. I wanted him to learn something So I told him: Why don't you come and help me? On Karnali Highway, the trade comes in quickly. The road is not wide enough to drivers are often This is where the assistant comes in Harijan tells Chibou that his wheels - This assistant is called a classis. He is destined to become a driver It's like a co-pilot. He helps me, he's never done it before. I teach him how to drive, I let him drive when the truck She's too bad. This morning, Baldev has a meeting with More than a colleague, he is a friend of 10 years. - I have to leave soon, Baldev must support a 15 tons of marble slabs, 2 vehicles are required Manoj, who owns his truck, As it rained the night before, the 2 - There is no rain. They won't Not a problem. It's not There is only yesterday and tonight, - It is better to eat before There will be tourists, Due to heavy snowfall, the It only opens from June to September, traffic conditions In case of late delivery, - We do not have a maximum delivery time. But in reality, our customers But if we put more than one They can refuse the goods They are the ones who decide. After a hearty breakfast, The 2 trucks are heading towards To get there, the road This does not prevent Indian truck drivers, to use their horn in all circumstances. - Depending on traffic, we do not we honk our horns in traffic jams, sometimes we honk in short bursts. It's not really necessary, 2 short blasts are to warn or to prevent him Or ask the one who There are special horns, to double quickly, Before using a horn, In his truck, Manoj, to transmit his art of The young man is having a lot of trouble It's normal, he doesn't have his license yet. - I like to pass on my profession. When I became a driver, So I like to help my classis, because like me, he comes So if he can have a On the road to Manali. Baldev's trucks This is an opportunity to buy groceries. In desert regions Bringing food is imperative to - We shop here because it If we have a breakdown or if the road is closed, We take our provisions That's why we always In Nepal. It is without living that This is not a problem for him, because What worries the young driver the most, it's not the thick one either but the rain that never stops falling. - It is raining hard. I have to 3 hours drive from here, But if it rains too much, the torrent and I could no longer cross it. Rain is the enemy Not only because but also because she With runoff water, to be swept away by a landslide, tons, torn from the cliff. Danger may come And when the rain keeps falling, becomes muddy turns Trucks and men, Suddenly, the mechanics ends Chibou noticed a suspicious noise. disassemble immediately to check when Oddly enough, he stops His tire is deflating, Chibou and his colleague are not going with 2 broken down trucks the vehicles following do not have Little by little, a traffic jam But no one gets angry. On the contrary, the curious flock to see When one of them is in difficulty, the drivers are all - They're friends, so no one complains. If a bus arrives, he will complain, so it happens like that, quietly. Chibou attacks the repair. Due to the shaking, the cap And the truck's driveshaft, If it breaks, Chibou won't - I'm going to put something back Without spare parts, he must find On the track, we do A piece of metal cut from to close the gap Chibou is still repairing when The trail can finally clear. Chibou, who hoped to join Menma before and waste precious minutes. In India, Baldev and Manoj have a few kilometers after the city of Manali. As they prepare Manoj's truck shows - The brake was hard and the pads So, we replace the old ones This is very important, otherwise If we leave the drum without Breakdowns are always an opportunity As they are not seasoned mechanics, that they operate. It's not Manoj's assistant. When to screw It's nice to be a classis. Last check, test the brakes. This is essential, before the one that truck drivers fear the most. - It was important If we don't do it, it remains a problem. Now we no longer have to Let's go for the climb towards the 1er The climb to Rotengle is not The panels installed by the army on the edge However, the roadway is in good condition, even if it borders one more ravine What doesn't seem to worry made his way between the herds So far, so good. Except perhaps for his 2 assistants, his singing talents. For 20 years, the Ladakh region has experienced The growing number of cars As a result, blockages are frequent. Here as in Nepal, drivers must The future of this portion With tourism, infrastructure The longest tunnel in India, 9 kilometers, It should shorten the bringing down the duration of By 2020, traffic jams on the pass, Halfway through, a roadblock obliges The army which does the work upstream, Our drivers do not have - The soldiers stopped us here. The road is one way and, - Apparently there are rocks The delivery of their marbles, Despite the setbacks that accumulate, Baldev and Manoj decided - We drove 35 kilometers We think we'll still be driving around We want to get to Darsha this evening. - Even if we have to drive until 11 p.m. or 12 a.m. So as not to waste a second, the classes While the drivers rest, Classis prepare in advance that they will take along the way. In Nepal, when a new Chibou is still repairing. The newcomers As he tries to climb back with some difficulties, And all opinions differ. Like Chibou, the crew of and everyone is aware that the rain, - If it rains hard in the mountains, Places where there is a small river In this season, the round trip You never know how many Sometimes we have to It can last several days After 1 hour of mechanics, Chibou's truck But as soon as he left, he The rain that fell all morning, at the limit of the passable. When the first ponds appear, Chibou risks himself without It barely passed. At the sea His classis, Harijan, will lend who had stopped shortly before to help them. - Do you think it will be of any use? This is to preserve the brakes. They We empty it to avoid - You don't have a shovel? - Yes, but it works very well with that. On the dizzying roads, the drivers Great patience, In India. After 2 hours of waiting, Baldev The hardest part Manoj's furtive prayer, To calm his stress, he will go up his lights of prayer, to attract - The hardest part is This is where there is the most You have to be careful with bridges that can I know a driver who had this happen. His truck overturned like he had his rear wheels in the air. when you become a driver, what you can't go back anymore. I own my I can't refuse to take I do not have a choice. If something bad happens While only new stop required for our drivers. Clearing work, And when the traffic starts again, Especially when traffic and the fog and mud get involved. Once over the pass, it's the descent. Always in the bumps. It's 5 p.m. on Karnali Highway. Since leaving Surkhet, Chibou has not and he still has 40 kilometers left, But on a growing road The situation gets worse when a Chibou is no exception to the rule. These wheels have sunk The truck is trapped in mud. Impossible to pass by force, This little stone won't change anything. The tractors are better off, they overcome the obstacle much more Once again, classis must intervene. Harijan begins to collect stones, In those moments, The sun sets in 1 hour, to spend the night stuck in this rut. The road can resume. The quagmire held back many vehicles. When Chibou leaves, a convoy On Karnali Highway, events that slow down the When it's not mud, it's another colleague's breakdown, Drivers used to this pace have no choice but Everything is good to pass the time, take a nap, to hold on to Karnali The end of the day is approaching The town of Jumla is still So when the roadway becomes correct again, The nearby Karnali River announces Chibou doesn't know it yet, but over there, Karnali Highway has in store for him At the entrance to the village, to come across an unusual crowd of buses. With such traffic, things get stuck. Chibou is forced to stop - It goes both ways. - Is the water rising high? - It arrives just above the wheels. Water up to the top of the wheels? Chibou prefers to go and check for himself what Chibou thought he had seen everything - I don't do it often So this is the first time I see there is a lot of water, the bus And now he's blocked the way. The water rose more than a meter. become a river, is too risky for but also for vehicles. Those who have passed suffer - The water level will eventually just wait and we can move on. In India, Baldev and Manoj They drove part of the night, but and 3 passes to cross, So as soon as you wake up, Despite the nearby tent shelters, - We never had a room, we eat This is to be ready to leave early If we didn't get up early, - It's true that we don't have Normally people pray - We do it while driving. But we have an advantage, and we are our own bosses. If we wanted to sleep until 6 a.m., After the traffic jams, Baldev and Manoj will experience loneliness Most trucks deliver their Few of them continue to Ley. The road is clear and the truckers are For Manoj. This is an opportunity to give a in the middle of the mountains. Glori is comfortable, but when Manoj prefers driving with 4 hands. Even if the mountain is beautiful, the truckers to those who venture here. Beliefs are stubborn. Also, Baldev never fails to take in a sanctuary revered by drivers. - It's a truck driver who is He didn't have a funeral, His spirit comes to disturb the truckers in or fire, he asks for water. That's why there We can leave him whatever we want. So that he leaves us in peace. The road reserves one last crossing passes at more than 5000 meters above sea level. These passages are often feared, - I have already had altitude sickness, On my very first trip through here. I had a terrible headache. It was to the point that if a I was ready to leave him I only dreamed of being evacuated by plane. I had no choice, I had to sleep Manoj was lucky, altitude sickness - I know a truck driver was found dead in his truck in the morning. After crossing the last pass, Baldev The last third of the road, A desert opens before them at 4500 meters altitude Here pilots can catch up But we must remain vigilant. At the least And on 600 kilometers of roads, Their client will soon find out. On arrival, the marble slabs The customer says nothing, feel that they will have to be persuasive - How was the road? - Obviously, it's broken. It's not easy to be a driver After crossing 4 passes, rolled in Baldev and Manoj will have to In Nepal, Chibou was able to cross the torrent, but the rain didn't stop It was the first time he took and its cargo is late. He advances anyway, whatever nothing stops Nepali drivers. Finally, after palaver, the client of The 2 drivers and their On the way back, Baldev expresses his