One important note before we start: this is that at the end of the video, but I wanted t get your hopes up with a glowing review, you can t play this. Ok, let s do the review. a review is I look up the developer. Who are worked on previously? Etc. Nerve, and plugging their name into THE GOOGLE splash images and the about section and the But no - I got none of that. Instead, I was Nerve is a two-person team from Manchester from around the world. dudes made this doesn t ring out quite like that sort of thing nowadays, and while making solo borderline miraculous, I know that audiences fact that just X number of people made this Having said all of that - I was genuinely this was a studio of two people. Typically are full of compromise and jank; stuff you people made it. The defining characteristic much so that even before I knew that so few my review around how polished this is. Every stonework aesthetic to its fluid movement its terse but emotive writing to its beautiful mood in every moment. as well as this, and to know that just two artists it s a huge achievement for this studio I enjoyed Death s Door immensely, and I recommend one aspect that I think holds the title back, in Death s Door is by no mean s bad but nor at best functional, and at times a little to you limits both your expression and enemy Had Acid Nerve invest more deeply in Death an unmissable indie darling. Its really nails through this world, and you love how it makes But without compelling gameplay to back it audiences a little underwhelmed. it a lot, in fact. Let me show you why. Death s Door knows how to set a scene. It dude, catching the bus to work. He s just instead of making powerpoints no one will of the dead. Past the security station, up Farm HQ a row of neatly arranged desks overseen is important work ushering souls from one like it s going great until suddenly something No one is quite sure why souls can t reach seem intent on not finding out. You on the off on your adventure make things right. accessible through mysterious doors that appear ll smash cut into worlds of brilliant colour, Mountaintops ruled over by great Yetis, a sealed away in her creepy castle. There s thematically, you feel like already know them, that Acid Nerve have brought to each of them. makes Death s Door great. Within each kingdom solve. Why have they done the things that In each case, theirs a moral angle to consider, logical that s worth grappling with. a guy whose head has been transformed into he offers me soup, straight out of his head. Death s Door will run you 8-10 hours. These take up around 30 minutes of playtime, max. leaves you with something to consider, and or the next reveal to be a powerful force, The world design is always simple, placing space is continuous and connected, but within that you move between. There s always a lot s Door s combat isn t swordplay it s movement, always giving you plenty of room to manoeuvre is working against you. Death Door s level design. It has a flat textured all parts of it, as though it was all chiselled with unique architecture, features or vistas. is more about functionality than it is spectacle. don t recall its visual properties, I recall Each of its tracks set the scene far better close your eyes and listen to it and you are top, a decaying bureaucracy. You know how was so distinctive it was almost visual it good. its also crucial to gameplay and level design. pace it will tell you when shit is about to It will also manufacture urgency where there throughout the game, you re shuttled through to defeat a large number of enemies as you time-gated; like you need to move as fast end and you will have failed. But that s not like it s just that the music is kind of tricking done such a good job of building you up to Honestly this happened to me 4 or 5 times so impressed that the soundtrack had that the game. Most of it is pretty chilled out, striking and puzzle solving. Exploration always feels they don t myriad branching pathways; they a few choices here and there. Exploring that Souls, the currency you use to become stronger, your maximum health. through the metroidvania unlocks that become Almost as soon as you start you begin seeing grapple points, all of them quietly whispering Where these upgrades shine brightest is during design asks you to use these new abilities too stuck, but the puzzles all punctuate and like you re moving through things too quickly, That s one of the best parts of Death s Door much about flow. I said earlier that Death that is, you flow so seamlessly between its to encounter. While doing so the soundtrack back the reigns without you even noticing This is gonna sound a little weird but I actually Journey than it is to Hades. It s more about experience of playing it and a lot of that side of the equation, there isn t a lot there. This sort of isometric, 2D-esque, dungeon sort of games. A lot a lot. It s a genre that its combat, or its item economy. Death s Door part. character and swing your sword from a controls Similar when it comes to things like hit registration When it comes to the hygiene factors of combat, The problem is ultimately one of depth, or a melee weapon which you can swing with either since the heavy attack its own strike. You limited use so these can t be relied upon won t have a nearby source of ammo. You have got. There s no block, there s no parry mechanic. attacks. What you ve been seeing on screen the game it never changes or becomes any more With so few tools combat can start to feel ultimately comes down to run up to the enemy, That s it. And I mean that it is exactly that, This actually has a really profound impact more difficult is by introducing enemies that get close to them and have enough time for going to get you every time. So combat is around the edge of an enemies hitbox so you wait for them to take their two swings, and I found this quite frustrating at times because play another game if you were trying to cheese and you were really low on health and you combos and keep your distance, just baiting windows. That s what the whole of Death s your turn. this combat. For example there are different so similar to each other in functionality There s also no dynamic weapons switching menu and equip it. If you had more distinctive fly that would have added a lot. Similar things heavy and light attacks, or more advanced that could have been done, but none of that So again I did not dislike this combat. It my enjoyment of this game, but nor did it a game that you love, it s probably not going there s more than enough to love here. Death s Door is a PC and Xbox exclusive. It that a lot of people won t agree with but exclusives when there s a clear commercial makes games to sell Playstations. Xbox has both Xboxes and Gamepass. Nintendo has studios, on WiiU and then again on Switch for the same of platform uptake, and that these companies their ecosystem. where I m like ehhhh . I mean this isn t coming subscriptions. It s just a straight up Xbox buy an Xbox to play Death s Door. It s a good nowhere near the territory of being a system Devolver some more cash, and stop people on after now seeing my review, I think we can on the Switch. This is A-Grade Switch fodder So I m bummed out by this deal because I think Xbox doesn t really see any upside. to other platforms later. Maybe a year from on the Xbox and PC release date today, or pick this up. This is wonderfully well put or challenge you, but its world, its characters, feel something. Transported, relaxed, tense, little fairytale adventure that probably isn ll be glad you played it. I for one hope they worth sticking with, and if the combat side s Door 2 would be amazing. Nerve for making this. Still can t believe That s crazy.