When you see the 747 takeoff or land, it's almost because the plane itself is so beautifully Boeing called her the super jet, the press called It makes the best landing of any airplane. And you are in awe that somebody even dreamt that Since its first commercial flight in 1970, 3.5 billion passengers. Its development back in the 1960s was measured in It was a pretty expensive airplane to develop at We're building a whole new class of airplane, the It's one of the most recognizable planes to take extensive landing gear and sheer size. The 747-8 tail height is equivalent to a six It has a wingspan as wide as two 737-700s lined It can travel 7,790 nautical miles, carry over with a takeoff weight of nearly PS1 million. The 747 ushered in more affordable long haul air lowering ticket costs. It quickly became known as the queen of the skies overhead bins. Boeing was already on the map when the 747 came 747 did for Boeing was inject the company with a bit more sexiness. The 747 was always intended to have dual roles. It was designed from the beginning to carry both The flight deck was put on top of the plane so This gave the 747 its upper deck. Boeing produced the 747 for the last 55 years, 1,574 airplanes were built for over 100 plus The list price for a 747-8 in 2022 was over $400 But over the last few decades, airlines have airplanes as efficient as possible. Airlines even coming out of the pandemic, are So they are looking for ways to have planes that And right now, those are two engine jets. The last 747 just rolled out of its Everett, It will go to Atlas Air for cargo deliveries. CNBC takes a look at how the 747 changed aviation future aircraft. It was the beginning of the jet age. In the 1950s, Boeing introduced the 707 America's Jet engines were safer, cheaper and faster than The number of people flying quadrupled between faster, more accessible and financially possible. Pan American World Airways or Pan Am was one of So Pan American came to Boeing and said, we need 707. The head of Pan American Airways Juanne Bill Allen, the CEO of Boeing. If you build that airplane, I'll buy it. And Bill Allen turned to one trip, said, if you And that's how the 747 got started. In 1966, Pan Am put in an order for 25, new 747s. One of the original design ideas for the 747 what Pan American wanted, and that was building a Building a plane twice the size of its predecessor The first iterations of the design were entirely evacuate potentially 500 passengers safely and in And this moment of innovation came in, and that we make a wider airplane? Why don't we make a twin aisle go 20 feet wide. And so the twin aisle, the widebody jet was born. Even though the design wasn't a full double required new innovations. What made it possible to make this giant jet was a These new engines, especially compared to the The 747 wasn't Boeing's biggest project at the It was also working on the 2707 supersonic What's interesting about the 747 when it was first be an interim aircraft that they would use jets and the coming wave of supersonic planes service later in the 1970s. So the designers of the 747, they understood this, 747s would be converted into freighters. And so they purposely set out to make the 747 the The SST program lost government funding and the Well, obviously the supersonic era didn't happen And so frankly, I think that led to a much longer 747. Once they finalized the specs for the plane. How are airports going to handle this wingspan, more than twice the width of previous that is much heavier. So that led to how Boeing designed the landing It has 18 wheels and that's designed to spread use existing runways. But some airports had to widen their runways and They built new terminals to handle this. They had to invest in new baggage handling In fact, the plane was so big, Boeing had to build Everett, Washington. Today, that building is the And where Boeing builds its other widebodies. These costs, along with the SST project and the a significant financial strain on the company. One of the biggest challenges for Boeing, how do Boeing bet the house on the 747. There were people who said literally that this There were also people who said financially this It was a tremendous risk. That became one of the big issues in those days that Boeing had to negotiate with, with creditors going, to keep the company going. But that didn't stop Boeing. Joe Sutter, who is known as the father of the other Boeing employees, were nicknamed The months. When the first 747 rolled out of the factory. It was a huge event. All of the airlines who represent them, and each company's logo was In 1970, Boeing delivered 93 total 747 aircraft versions. Pan Am will bring you the world's first 747. Pan Am operated the first commercial flight in When it arrived in London, crowds of spectators Because the public was so entranced with the 747. All of the major airlines had to have this Its jumbo size was something passengers, pilots My first introduction to the 747 was as a flight It was huge. All of a sudden, the biggest five or six flight attendants. The 747 needed 14, and it had five different section was a different size. It was chaos at the beginning. So many airlines used the upper deck level of lounges for their first class passengers. Some airlines had lounges in coach, and American coach on its 747 for short time. Very extravagant. Very luxurious. We had fresh flowers in crystal vases. Each meal had a special wine that was paired with properly open champagne. The first ever 747 prototype is still on display This is the upper deck experience. This was the interior that Boeing used to show what that first class, that premier experience, Passengers could come up the spiral staircase and It was the favorite airplane of the pilots. Captain Lynn Rippelmeyer would eventually become to captain a 747 transatlantic flight. She got her start flying cargo for Seaboard World They had professional engineers. So if you got hired as a pilot, you immediately So this very unique set of circumstances happened by Seaboard World. And as a 747 first officer and first woman to fly a 747. I went to work for PeoplExpress first as a 737 captain again, which is almost unheard of. And then we got 747s. So I became a 747 captain at People Express in I had so much confidence in that plane. It flies beautifully, I think, why many pilots It makes the best landing of any airplane. The plane was designed for long haul flights, affordable. It only went to what we would consider to be capitals. And having the 747 serve your airport What was also interesting is airlines viewed the legitimizing them. So a lot of airlines ordered the 747 when it was shouldn't have. It also helped transform the air cargo market. It wasn't long that the 747 with its capacity to great freighter, but that freighter version came Lufthansa. And this is really where the airplane Airlines all over the world have flown the 747. It really runs the gamut from United Airlines to Lufthansa, British Airways, Qantas. It was really a plane that flew all over the Over the next few decades. The 747 continued to evolve with newer, improved It also served other purposes like government In 1977, Boeing delivered a modified 747 to NASA its landing spot in California back to Cape In 1988, the 747-400 was introduced. This version had more efficient engines, longer It was the company's best selling version. Overall, the 747 safety record has been good. That's not to say it's been perfect. Some of these problems, though, are more airline the design of the airplane. But the 747 has been involved with some very Two of the most visible were the bombing of Pan London to New York and the crash of TWA Flight both of which were 747. But the 747 was a well designed aircraft. It actually is probably the safest airplane in the redundancies. The more engines you have, the more each engine provides the hydraulic power, the the air conditioning, everything that the And when you have four of them, you've got three That airplane can fly on one engine. It's not going to keep altitude. You're going to want to be pretty close to a that you need to get the airplane safely back Boeing saw a rise in deliveries through the 1990s The 747 was one of the most geographically widely ordered airplane in the world for a plane It helped spur the development of the airline hub granted. But the 747 was not an airplane designed shorter routes. And so as a result, that limited 747 and it also limited the usefulness of the Fares, routes and service were regulated by the Act was enacted in 1978. This created more competition among the airlines It also created dozens of new airlines and the With these large planes, they would funnel large large hubs. But what passengers want now is to And it turns out that the more fuel efficient And that's something that has essentially killed With four engines, of course, you're going to use So they were finding ways to fly an airplane much And the 74 didn't cut it. It's not because people don't like it certainly In the eighties, airlines started to do away with for increased revenue. Airlines also pack a lot more seats onto planes That is the idea. They want to get as many people In 1990, Boeing 747ss made up 28% of the world's That's down to just 2% in 2022. And despite the rise in air freight during the 21% of the world's widebody cargo fleet, down In fact, Pan Am clung to that plane far too long, partially responsible for the airline's demise. In 1991, Pan Am ended operations. So from the mid 1980s into the 2000s, you saw flying 747. Those that had them generally reduce the number Despite all these signs that airlines were moving main competitor, launched its superjumbo, the The company spent billions on developing it and plane. It is a full double decker and could be passengers. But many airlines were already moving more efficient twin engine aircraft. Airbus ended production of the A380 in 2021. The end of the 747 was pretty much inevitable and measures, maybe even by Boeing's own doing. This is the last 747. Number 1,574. When we visited Boeing's Everett, Washington on it before heading out to be painted and flight It's an exciting and emotional time for us. The 747 has been absolutely transformational, And as part of that to Boeing, it laid the that followed. Boeing's only going to build planes that airlines The orders stopped coming in for the 747 because aircraft that can do the same job that the 747 it. So the 787 Dreamliner and the Airbus a350 can the 747 couldn't. They can go much further nonstop. The company delivered its last passenger version That same year, all US airlines stopped flying When the 747 were retired, people were really sad. United's last 747 flight from San Francisco to on television in San Francisco. It was a big deal. Boeing 747 was the most successful widebody until slot. When you look at the 777-8 freighter and it can carry similar to cargo levels, but with and it has over 30% reduction in fuel burn, which efficiency as well as for sustainability and the Demand for cargo versions remained strong until production of the 747 freighter version. It just really made sense that we would shift to of the 747. Atlas Air has the largest fleet of delivery of the last plane in early 2023. The ending of the 747 comes at a time when the with more fuel efficient, environmentally Boeing CEO recently said the company would not the company waits for new fuel efficient engines Since advances in engine technology doesn't yet The ends of the 747 is pretty much the least of Boeing right now. This is a manufacturer that in of its best selling 737 max planes crash and 346 were killed. Since then, the company has been It has picked up sales of those aircraft once But it's not the only thing that Boeing is It also had production flaws on its 787 Dreamliner There's a third front that Boeing is dealing with, the 777x, and that's a plane that has been not going to be delivered and flying for So the end of the 747 is kind of this turning In the meantime, airlines looking to purchase 777 and Dreamliner, as well as Airbus, A350 and United Airlines placed the largest order of any for 100 Dreamliners. And they have options to buy 100 more. As for the queen of the skies, the end of around anymore. There are 396, 747s still flying. 311 are freight, 44 of them are passenger planes private service, including Virgin Orbit. Six airlines still operate the 747, Lufthansa is The airlines that have it will probably continue years or so, perhaps a little bit longer. I think we'll continue to see the 747 operate as because it's a really good freight airplane. There's plenty of other ways to experience a 747 There are hotels, a water park and many other on display. A testament to how iconic and over the last several decades. The 747 is beloved in a way that most other airliners are not. I remember my first 747 flight. It was on American Airlines from Kennedy to I don't think you're going to see people crying 787 Dreamliner decades from now is retired. It they just don't have the same emotional She was my first jet. That was the first jet I And I don't know if there's many other pilots So I guess that's why she's my baby. And I think because I felt like if I took care of You could say it's the hump, it's the shape, the But what I think this airplane, it inspires us things. And I think that that is what has Why is there such an emotional attachment to this that we can do amazing things.