-All right. that has a points category of specifically It's Stickman Fall Legends. So, this is probably the most ridiculous Besides having it has the most important thing A stat bar that shows you exactly how many times including your spine and head. Max bone break, seven. Rookie numbers. And so, as usual, our job is to find And the beginning here, it's always good to enjoy a lovely, gigantic saw up the rectum. I love how getting my spine Gives me a 10% toward a skateboard. I love saw blades. Oh, cool. [chuckles] Well, apparently if you get tortured the longest. I found that going in headfirst is All right. Uh, fantastic example All right we're beating the Max score I love how the background looks like How high does this bonus go? I want my skateboard. Give me all of the pain. All right. A completely controlled I love that as you get beaten human strawberries That's right. My blood type is Smucker's Jelly. [laughs] I haven't been down here yet. Looks very sadistic. Now you can also buy stuff as you would imagine. Little boxing glove down here, Actually, I-I guess I could put All right boxing glove, I'm coming. I don't know where it is over here. Never mind I found it. [groans] Oh, God. Yes, raise me back up to heaven. Not gonna lie, [screams] Oh, thank you. This is not a skateboard. It's like the undercarriage This is beyond longboard. What are the different ways Ah, deadly and deadlier. You know what? Sure, whatever. It's a fast skateboard. [groans] My skateboard is inside of my neck. I think laying on the skateboard is definitely the smartest way -Nope. All right. Maybe if we lay down on it I don't want the front of this-- Okay. I guess, I'll just eat that ledge. Okay. Really slow. There we are. Yes. Good, and eject. Perfect. Yeah. There it is, baby. [groans] Okay. And bounce and get punched. I think we're ready to buy a new level Well, this looks awful. Ooh, a saw for 15,000. All right, we'll get there. Grab this totally safe skateboard. Head on down. Totally missed the area My leg just fell off. Why? Oh, God, this is amazing. This is a fantastic level. Oh, this is a controlled fall. If I've ever-- [groans] There's not very much left of me. How am I get-- I still had plenty of death to undergo. The best score is right. Jump. Yeah. See, the more I can pack on the points. I definitely need a saw down here. Oh, hi, Mr. Wheel. Don't mind if I use you as a pillow? It's been a tough day Oh, oh, oh, God. [music] Come on. Oh, no, no. Where's the rest of me. Well, that ain't good. This-this is what This one sad piece of me. Ooh, new best score. Okay. I should have enough money now so we can start getting underway Yeah, gimme, uh, gimme the steam. Yeah. Put that in there. This is a fantastic idea. Ow. Oh, there goes one leg. Didn't need it. On the plus side, I am a lefty. So, as long as I have my left leg, Let me just go ahead It's a great source of protein Oh, God. There goes the other leg. Rise. Rise for the pain. Oh. This wheel just saved my life. Although apparently there's still-- Oh, it's to my other half. There has to be a way though, to effectively cheat the system. Usually, you can get stuck and abuse everything that way. Although this is turning out because this sitting against the wall allows me to keep leaning against it. That's it, yeah, keep going, I want at least 40 000 points Come on. There you go. What a champion, 49 000. Oh, this might be able to go all day. Yes. Oh, God, I love it. I think we may have found For real, it's still going. The only thing that can stop this is because then I won't be long enough Yeah, keep-keep massaging my groin, -One Eternity Later. -After this, we're gonna have to see I had to stop, See, now we're up to 155 head breaks. This is called Saw's Hole. Besides sounding it also has an area which should once again be cut up by the saws. Okay. so, I need something over here. I've got to, like, get my skateboard There it is. There. -Nope. lean against the wall going this way. If I can get like stuck that would work good. I don't know what this is. Don't ask. I just wanted to see if it was, more durable Yes, rest. Rest upon the saw blades of destiny. All right, Oh, this looks awful. All right, we've got steam, Oh, there's arrows in this too. I get a trial for an airplane. I don't know Oh, it does. Whoa. Ah, part of the plane Ah, it's like This is- this is fantastic. Oh, no. All right, I'm right so that wasn't too bad. So, um, it's not infinite points, but I have found another way and just have him stuck Look at it. Okay this one's, kind of, awesome. So, what you- is get punched by that boxing glove, so that you can fly up and that pretty much Let me just go ahead [groans] Yeah, give it to me. Enter the big saw. Come on, no. I mean, this is fine too, I guess. [groans] And up, and down. All right, if I go slower-- Okay, that was a punch, A little faster. I'm not gonna be happy Come on. All right, I touched the big saw. That's good. Oh, yeah. Oh, God. Oh, keep it going. Keep it going. Okay, yes, rest on top of the saw. I think the thing there's, like, 50 more boards. Okay, it's a good punch. Oh, my head is inside of my foot. This is interesting. Oh, my head is now out of my foot, Ah, Mr. Wheel we meet again. [groans] Oh, sweet, it's not just ninja stars. They're explosive ninja stars. Ah, yeah. Mm. Uh-huh. I almost made it completely -I've got a wooden horse now. -I feel like-- [chuckles] Yeah, this seems great. I can imagine this horse and, you know, I look at its, uh, its resume. And the horse is like, Yeah, you're-you're perfect. What is exploding? All right, horse, it's-- I was gonna say, it's you and me. Now, it's just me. All right, I'm keeping this horse's head with me. Never mind. The horse's head This is called Floating Points. Part of my horse was inside All right, a million arrows, bounce off the bottom, get juggled by the blades. So, I need something over here All right, the saw goes this way. Give myself a missile on my back. All right, this looks good. Here we go. I'm sure you'll be fine horse. Uh, use the kit, Hopefully, I can land Nope. No, I'm just gonna eject there. Yeah. Oh, there's a magical part Deep inside of my ankle. [chuckles] Use the kit. Uh, [laughs], uh, It's just stuck [?] [screams] I told you. I'm actually screwed. I-I don't know I'm just gonna let it roll Uh, uh, I think I might be able I'm definitely outside of the board. All right, eject. Nice. Oh, yeah. All right, don't use the kit yet. Not yet. Now. There we go. Perfect. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's perfect. Oh, this is interesting, wasn't going that way, I'm just floating for all eternity. Well, I've maxed out the bone breaking. I guess, now I can-- All right. Okay. All right. Good. Yep. I was gonna say, &quot;I guess, I just kicked myself in the face. Oh, God. Look at me like a violent, depressed porcupine. All right. -Nope. God, the explosives really keep you Welcome to this. It's called Up and Down. This is probably the most ridiculous thing in a stick figure game. All right. Throw a missile on my back, and we're ready to go. All right. You get punched a couple of times. Now, I am riding the fist effectively, and then [groans] [laughs] Where's the rest of my body? Oh, there it is. Oh, bye. Wow. That one little area Look at the score Oh, a part of my body That means infinite [laughs] points. No, I'm serious. Well, needless to say, Oh, wow. Uh, I guess, this is the part I still need to get up here. Like, I haven't even been up there yet, I don't even know I guess, I'll go ahead and use it Oh, here we go. Come on, come on. Come on, go, go. Yes. [laughs] Back to the beginning. Sometimes I like to sit here and watch my score total go up for no reason. So, this board is called This board is called Slot Machine. I was gonna say it's so incredible and shouldn't be that hard to find a way Now my dude is just going for all eternity. How do I get myself This position probably I'm here to tell you it does. Give me that points. Yeah. More. More. Oh, we're not done yet. Get back up there. Each backflip is worth I'm glad I found a way Well, at this point I think it's safe to say And I'm happy to say that Anyway, folks, Stick- Fall Legends Until the next time. Stay Foxy and much love. [chuckles]