Yes, you read that right, Captain Toad: I wouldn't advise you to play this game for the cozy puzzle platformer, it somehow also provides Mario games and not exactly minor ones either. bizarre and loose way, like... it doesn't take they also just... could have not done this if add to that some really strange contradictions up with lore that can only be described We're gonna start simple, because although Captain I would say it is an overlooked title from an re-releases on 3DS and Switch definitely helped at the sales data, the big majority of people will the formula of his game through his inclusion in Toad has sold a very respectable 3 million copies million, so it's not at all close. But the fact then, gameplay-wise, you know exactly how Treasure from the big Mario on the Wii U and turns it into to play and, most importantly for this video, a very quickly summarize the "plot" of Captain Toad, the titular captain and explorer Toadette about game. A huge bird called Wingo then appears and to prevent but that well-intended move only leads game. This is really the whole setup of Episode 1 yeah, what might be good to know is that this game which I guess can best be described as parts each Episode is divided into Chapters so that is Anyway, Episode 1 revolves entirely around in a showdown at the bird's watchtower. As duo continue their adventures leading to Episode with the key difference being that it's now Say what you want about that bird, he at Episode 2 has you play as Toadette throughout identical to Episode 1. Now huge spoilers who would have thought, meaning that for Toad and Toadette... Although, they are once again who uses her newfound confidence to fight back again for a final battle and after a third blow, obviously this is all not the lore I was talking this game? Well, because it is important to know same between every version of the game. The Wii U, no differences. However, we now arrive at a point game are identical, began to differentiate you might not realize how completely So after you've beaten Wingo for the final you'll watch as Captain Toad and Toadette the Captain to see a Green Star flying over and a very familiar cutscene starts to play: where it usually ends, it now continues with Kobe-style and Captain Toad jumps after direct prequel to 3D World, which is such a it's obviously the other way around, but it is titles like this. Nintendo is usually super the passing of time or something even remotely the events of Captain Toad and Toadette fighting World. Right...? Uhm...it's complicated. Remember timelines for Mario games like 20 seconds ago? ends up being a very clear message to every fan And that may sound contradictory based on have only finished the Wii U version. If you you'll see a similar ending of Toad and Toadette this time around, they are in the Sand Kingdom Toad sees the titular ship from the Switch game creates a bizarre situation where the events of World and Odyssey at the same time. Now, if you that Odyssey and 3D World don't necessarily that it is possible that the fight against Wingo like a canon event of sorts. Captain Toad is it happens in every imaginable timeline. Now, thought as I have now, but it is kinda crazy to it's so... preventable. Captain Toad being a he's such an integral part of that game that decision. Odyssey though... Captain Toad is barely the events as they play out in the ending of impossible. After all, in Odyssey, Captain Toad game, including the Cascade Kingdom and the Cap sets foot in the Sand Kingdom. And yet, it is Sand Kingdom is what triggers Captain Toad to around the Odyssey Kingdoms is also supported by Episode begins with a Sand Kingdom-based level implying that unlike Mario, Toad's first steps in yeah, I can understand Nintendo tried to do a cute five people who had a Switch or 3DS and played Odyssey, but the ended up creating an absolute it ever did right. And worst of all, they had a But that isn't even all yet, because while we may backstory for not one, but two Mario games, let me Now, it isn't as huge a convoluted mess as the but it is a connection that has flown deep Switch version of Captain Toad, that version the Special Episode, which adds 5 new courses and new story of course, where the duo are on the hunt the bizarre power-up that spawned endless memes character called Bowsette technically originates that after this Special Episode, Toadette takes it to transform into Peachette during the which was released a few months before the Special a piece of artwork that you really wish you After you complete the Special Episode, you are Once again, the duo drive down a mountain in their be found here. What is very interesting though is generic Mario grassland. But not just any generic grassland! While we aren't actually shown it this and conclude that Toadette is the one to leave the friends when Peach gets kidnapped and using the mission. As such, Captain Toad does not only serve with its final DLC, NSMBU Deluxe was also added there is a distinct difference here in how the Marios happen at the end of the identical story, The setup for New Super Mario Bros U Deluxe of which the connection to the regular game perhaps even plausible, that the Special Captain Toad in either 3D World or Odyssey, to conclude, Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker might to a total of three different games, which has and convolution. But at the end of the day, include these little nods, so Nintendo, if you're you from doing this more often! Just... don't That's about it for me, but please share your Toad, as well as just your general impressions the video, please consider giving it a like and my future Mario content coming up. For now, thanks