Welcome to Hollywood Graveyard where we lives of those who lived to entertain us, Today we're exploring New York City and such stars as Lillian Gish, Montgomery Join us, won't you? For the better part of two years we've of southern California in search of there. But the world is a big place and Time for lush greenery instead of ones, the subway instead of the Metro, and whose leaves are just beginning to shed weather. Outside of LA, New York has more anywhere else. And that's where we find Grave hunting in New York is an experience are much older here, and you can really much character in these graveyards. We into old-world graveyards then this is like you're walking through the set of you look for: large, aging, moss-covered leaves and stories of lives that go back in Hollywood, America's great performing on Broadway stages or making America's nascent film industry, with the The first commercially exhibited motion here in New York City in the late 1800s. In our time in New York will barely scratch the surface of others to see ground, and therefore break up our tour If we want to see all we can we'd better Oh look, there's Valhalla Cemetery which we We've come full-circle. We're actually flying into Newark, so here in New Jersey before heading into Not far from the airport is Fairview Cemetery. Near the eastern edge resting place of one of the greatest Whitney Houston. Unfortunately the rain This is how it normally looks. Beneath her name and dates it reads &quot;the Voice,&quot; and &quot;I will always love you.&quot; Whitney began singing in her church as a child right here in New Jersey and rose to like, &quot;Saving All My Love For You,&quot; and &quot;I most awarded female artist of all time, She made her screen debut in the 1992 film Love You&quot; is a reference to one of her The Bodyguard. [music] On February 11th 2012 she was found Beverly Hilton. She was pronounced dead a accidental drowning due to the effects She was 48. Like so many with immeasurable talent, Resting next to Whitney is her daughter, Bobbi singer Bobby Brown. into the spotlight from a young age, Bobby Brown, and The Houstons: On Our Own. sing with her mother, and had just begun In 2015 she was found facedown in a scene eerily similar to her mother. She died after being in a Southwest of here a few miles is funny man and musician, Dudley Moore. musician and composer before joining a to television where he would often They co-wrote and co-starred in the remade in 2000 starring Brendan Fraser. alongside Bo Derek and the hilarious which earned him an Oscar nomination. &quot;Will you take my hand?&quot; &quot;That would leave you with one.&quot; &quot;Offer to take my coat.&quot; &quot;You don't have a coat.&quot; &quot;Well offer to take my tie.&quot; The movie's theme song, &quot;Arthur's Theme,&quot; performed by Christopher Cross, won the So on that note, Mr. Cross, [music] We finally made it, beautiful New York We'll begin our tour of famous graves in let's hop on the subway and make our way On the Upper West Side, not far from When the original Trinity room in Upper Manhattan in 1842. Let's make our way in from the the Riverside Terrace mausoleum. Here we performer of stage and screen, Jerry recognize him as Lennie Briscoe a role beginning in the early 90s. But he was musicals like Chicago, 42nd Street, and Promises. And remember that talking and and the Beast, who went by the name That was Jerry Orbach. &quot;And now, we invite you to dining room proudly presents your dinner. Be our guest, be our guest, put our service to the test. Tie your napkin around your Back outside in the next block south, Ralph Waldo Ellison. He was a novelist famous writer: Ralph Waldo Emerson. his novel Invisible Man which won the wrote a number of political and social college professor and lecturer. In 1969 President Johnson. Let's take the stairs On the east facing wall, above eye-level, Estelle Bennett. She was a singer and her sister and cousin. Many of their &quot;Walking in the Rain,&quot; and &quot;Be My Baby.&quot; [music] The group was inducted into the Rock and The best place to see our next star is actually from Here is the crypt of singer, Cuba R&amp;B group The Main Ingredient in the chart-topping hits like, &quot;Just Don't Want [music] You may have surmised that he is the Out front of the mausoleums to the east to Richard Sands. He was a 19th century equestrian and acrobat. He gained ceiling with suction cups, becoming all Human Fly. He was just 46 when he died. stood on this empty pedestal between the now it vanished. Behind the mausoleums to of Clement Clarke Moore. He was a pastor, today for penning the beloved Christmas known today as &quot;The Night Before to amuse his children, but they anonymously in 1823. attributed to Moore. It has remained a being made into a number of films. &quot;Twas the night before Christmas when all through the house, not a creature was The stockings were hung by the chimney would soon be there.&quot; And thanks in part another holiday classic. Several members of the prominent Astor let's stop and visit a few of them. sculpt the landscape of New York. John his fortune in the fur trade and real America's first millionaire. The Astor's here in New York, like Astor Place and Astor's great-grandson, John Jacob Astor IV is entombed nearby. He best remembered as the wealthiest He died that night, his body by the initials JJA embroidered on his in the 1997 film, Titanic. Up the stairs He was a businessman and Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Astor New York Public Library. And during the volunteer, receiving the brevet of That'll do it for Trinity, let's hop back on the subway and On 90th Street, across the street from Heavenly Rest, built in 1929. This is the actress, Gloria Swanson, whose niche is Unfortunately we were unable to access we'll have to visit her from afar. Her 19-teens, Mack Sennett films. In 1919 she signed best-known work of the silent era under Hollywood's most admired and She also became one of the great fashion were introduced in 1929 Gloria was in nominated. It was for her role in Sadie Her successes in the talkies were few, but ever made: the role of Norma Desmond, a washed-up desperate for a return. She received for her performance. &quot;You're Norma Desmond. You used to be in silent pictures, &quot;I am big. &quot;Alright Mr. DeMille, I'm ready for my Across the street is Central Park where dogs, or if their music lovers, remember was named for one of his favorite songs. Beatles who rose to prominence in the band in history, with hits from &quot;I Want to &quot;Hey Jude&quot; and &quot;Come Together.&quot; After the including the song that inspired this [music] On December 8, 1980 he was shot dead by a crazed fan just outside his apartment, not far from here. After his death his ashes scattered at this site. Continuing downtown we reach Park Avenue. St. Bartholomew's Episcopal beautiful Byzantine Revival design. It has since become a national historic monument. In the basement is a small resting place of two silent film sisters: Older sister Lillian Gish is considered by many film the silent era - a true pioneer of film silent screens great tragedienne. a fragile outward appearance but lead role in some of the silent eras Intolerance, and Way Down East, all In 1920 she became one of the first women to direct which starred her sister, Dorothy. The career, starring in films like The Night earned her an Oscar nomination. She died Dorothy Gish was the spitting image of her older sister. She was the comedienne of Lillian from their screen debut in 1912's Other films with her sister include Orphans of the Storm, and Judith of Bethulia. By the late 20s she'd mostly retired from the screen, only making a few more screen appearances, but enjoyed a long career on stage later Hall of Fame. Further down Manhattan is Abington Here we find a memorial to Adrienne memorial plaque placed in her honor. known particularly for her work in Her final film was the she also wrote and directed. film's success. On November 1, 2006, she her apartment. Police initially suspected happy and would never take her own life. it was soon determined that a young and made it look like a suicide. the Adrian Shelley Foundation was We finally made it downtown, the sun blocked Right on Broadway is Trinity Church. This cemetery, predecessor to the one uptown cemetery has graves dating back to the America and home to many of the nation's of these graves that the tombstones are silhouette of what they once were. This this site, built in 1846. The original was and the second was demolished in 1839. In of America's Founding Fathers: Alexander Yorkers to agree to ratify the US He then became the nation's first nation's financial system. It's fitting US $10 bill. with Aaron Burr. The life and legacy of with the production of the wildly [music] Time to say goodbye to Manhattan, cross and make our way to Green-Wood Cemetery 1836 and has since become a national cemetery you're greeted by this There are approximately 600,000 This is the home of New York's historical figures, and more. We'll barely put a dent in all we could never cover it all. let alone a Oh, there's my dream house right here in the cemetery. I'm glad we didn't have a car today, because Green-Wood is the kind of So many hidden gems off the find if you were speeding through. That being the case we'll take our time as we stroll from one site to the next here at Our first famous grave here is in Section G southeast of the entrance. century's most renowned and celebrated fame was derived from his long tenure as Philharmonic. As a composer his works several beloved musicals, including On West Side Story. [music] His only original film score not based On the Waterfront in 1954. It earned him an Let's make our way south to section 113. Oh wow, look at this. Love it. Here we find the final resting place of silent film Florence La Badie. She's another in a long being major stars in their day, are all stage then in 1911 she joined Thanauser in films like The Million Dollar Mystery. a daredevil at heart, often performing the unfortunate distinction of being the height of her popularity. In 1917, while causing an accident. She died weeks later Her grave remained unmarked for nearly a raised funds and facilitated the It's a long walk south to our next stop, so Wish you guys were here to see this in This morning haze has given the cemetery a sort But on the bright side, you don't get the Do you love piano music? Well odds are some of piano made by this man: manufacturing company Steinway &amp; Sons in Here we are in section 182. South of the a London born actress who moved to the and quickly found success on the became the first female theater manager produce plays, including one very Cousin in 1865. On the night of April Ford's Theatre in Washington DC when Let's turn east and make our way to Following this unique line of graves to Jean-Michel Basquiat. He was a neo- Puerto Rican descent. He gained notoriety the Lower East Side in the 70s. By the paintings, and even caught the eye of He died of a heroin overdose In 2017 a painting of a skull by Basquiat sold for $110.5 million dollars, setting a new record price for an American artist. Let's turn south again and head to the The last section before the fence and the road is Here we find legendary movie cowboy, William S. Hart. He's considered cinemas foremost silent cowboy, paving the way for future Western but different from Tom Mix, Hart's cowboy His first on-screen appearance was as Massala and his breakout came in 1914's The 75 films, mainly westerns, earning him the But by the 20s audiences began to prefer the Western action-packed, idealized, with flashier costumes. Hart retired after making Tumbleweeds in 1925. Both he and Tom Mix were pallbearers at Might wanna rest your feet a little bit before we Just past a small pathway, close to the actor of radio, stage, and screen, best fan of 1939's The Wizard of Oz you'll roles: Professor Marvel, the Gatekeeper, course the Wizard himself. &quot;No my dear, I'm a very good man... I'm just a very bad wizard.&quot; &quot;Well what about the heart that you promised Tin-Man? And the courage that you promised Cowardly Lion?&quot; &quot;And Scarecrow's brain?&quot; &quot;Why anybody can have a brain. That's a very mediocre commodity.&quot; Morgan was nominated for two Oscars in his career, for The Affairs of Cellini, and He died of a heart attack at the age of 59 while filming Annie Get Your Gun. That'll do it for Green-Wood, but we have one more stop before our day is through. East of here a few blocks is Prospect Park a popular recreational What many people don't realize is there's a cemetery hiding in this park, obscured by thick woods, all but invisible to visitors, and generally This small path off Center Drive leads The cemetery began in 1849 and covers about 12 acres. Deep in these woods we find the grave of the great actor, Montgomery young, dark, brooding outcast in many of early method actors, and though his film the greats in Hollywood history. Some of A Place in the Sun, Judgment at Nuremburg, and as From Here to Eternity, all of which earned him &quot;Well, one afternoon he and I were sparring around in the gym, you know, kind of friendly like, and he must have been set pretty flat on his feet, because I caught him with a no more than and, uh, he didn't get up, he didn't move.&quot; In 1956 he was in reconstructive surgery to his face. He or emotionally, and turned to painkillers behavior became more erratic over the coronary artery disease. Cemetery at his mother's request. And that concludes our tour. What are some of your favorite memories of the stars we visited today? Share them in the comments below, and be sure to like, share, and, subscribe for more famous grave tours. Thanks for watching! We'll see you on the Is anyone missing a cat? If not maybe He can be my right-hand man in future cemetery tours.