In 1971, there was a little known song that "American pie". In the lyrics of the song, the writer makes known as "The Day The Music Died". This is in reference to a 1959 plane crash but also three iconic musicians and performers But how did this tragedy actually happen. Delving into this incident we'll uncover depth when faced with a horrifying situation. That's what we'll explore today as we Music Died. The tour from hell, was the nickname given Dance Party Tour. Headlining the tour in 1959 was Rock and Roll other notable artists of the day, they took began performing across the American Midwest Having separated from his band just months his new life in New York where his Pregnant The tour never got off to a great start. Having to travel on what was effectively a of Winter, actually travelling between shows In 1959 the American Interstate Highway System still to be built at that point. Not only were these musicians travelling on the careless planning of the tour that saw were travelling across many poorly maintained next show. Multiple busses were reportedly used during Breakdowns in the bitter cold and the onset amongst the musicians. The treacherous conditions between shows frustrated himself to call the shot and charter a plane Following a show on February 2nd, 1959, in to travel to their next show in Moorhead Minnesota. Holly and two other musicians were chauffeured to Mason Municipal Airport in the very early The manager knew a guy who owned an air charter Once there they'd charter a small plane nearest airport to their next show the following The two other musicians going with Holly on story that night involves Valens effectively taking the place of another musician. And then there was Jiles Perry Richardson, Bopper. Coming down with a flu he was offered a spot Their entourage also travelling on the tour, The show ended that night at around midnight. The three musicians were taken to the Mason flight with a small operator known as Dwyer Dwyer was the name of the owner, one Mr. Hubert A commercial pilot himself, that night he for the accident pilot who would take Holly, name of Roger Peterson. Peterson was just 21 years old. Being so young he was hardly an experienced He possessed a total of just 711 flight hours 128 of those were in the type of plane that The plane in question was a small Beechcraft The Bonanza is a very popular general aviation Over 17,000 of them have been built since It has a distinctive V shape tailplane. The pitch and Yaw mechanics are integrated The benefits of this are a lighter aircraft surface area the air has to interact with. The Bonanza was seen by many as something The unconventional design certainly drew eyes The three musicians paid $36 dollars each Dakota. There was a problem, weather conditions in They were in the middle of the midwestern The forecast for the flight ahead wasn't along the flight route. The first in the contributing factors in this itself but rather that poor planning and management failed to include pertinent information regarding The information that was briefed to pilot Basically he didn't know how bad the weather Believing that all seemed well enough to go our three musicians, Buddy Holly, Ritchie plane. Going with them was substantial cargo which The men were going to use the extra time the in Fargo. At shortly before 1 in the morning, the engine north End of the airport for departure from The Beechcraft Bonanza carrying the 4 men five to one in the morning. As the small aircraft climbed into the night controller and fans who even followed the lights and followed it in the sky. Shortly after take-off the plane made a left a north northwesterly heading towards North Passing east of the airport, ground observers the deteriorating weather conditions. As the plane flew north of Clear Lake, something It appeared as if the plane began descending, Indeed it was descending, the plane was in airspeed. Now let's pause here and see if we can shed ended up in this situation. Let's put something on the table here. There are different margins of weather classifications. These types of poor weather conditions are Instrument Meteorological Conditions. It means that a pilot cannot fly visually have been able to do well anyway in a dark Instead pilots would need to fly in reference On that night sources state that conditions attempt to fly visually in this weather and But instrument flying and being allowed to and certification. It is here where we can begin to understand contributed to this accident. When it came to instrument flying, Peterson's He was in training for instrument certification Though he had been flying for his company qualified for flying in Instrument Meteorological He was only qualified to fly in visual conditions. He was not in a position to fly with whilst he would have had to do that night. In fact it wasn't only the pilot who shouldn't the company he worked for, Dwyer Flying Service The only person in this entire situation who night was Mr. Hubert Dwyer, but he stayed Let's take a moment to just highlight the As a pilot who was only supposed to be flying was dealing with. Flying at night, heading out over a very sparsely There was no ground illumination in this region The deteriorating weather and low cloud base he could have picked up. He had no reference to a horizon outside. Peterson a young inexperienced pilot was in Now that would be where the Attitude indicator And here is the next piece of the puzzle. The attitude indicator is an instrument we It does exactly what it looks like, it's that can reliably display the information In the center an icon representing the aircraft For climbing and descending information, the in blue, let's call this the Positive region. The negative descending region is below colored Now you probably didn't need me to tell before on multiple occasions, it's obvious understand why very soon. We have previously looked at accidents involving In relation to the attitude indicator such axis was the source of confusion. Now here is the thing, not all attitude indicators When Peterson was training for Instrument similar to the ones that are found in planes The accident plane however was fitted with looked a little bit like this... This is the Sperry F3. It's an older model gyroscopic attitude It still gives the artificial horizon as you'd However if we place this side by side to compare the one the pilot was familiar with, we see When compared to the modern indicator, the The negative region is on top, and position These two indicators display the same pitch It is believed that this was a source of confusion All of these factors when pieced together pilot facing spatial disorientation, forced to use. In the dark winter night at around 1am on Investigators believed that the bad weather With nothing to see from the window other of the unfamiliar attitude indicator. As it was displaying the opposite to what down. It was the opinion of investigators that he a right turn that was done in the final moments Almost as if he was unaware of what he was Seconds later the aircraft crashed in a nose all four people on board. North 43 13,13.3 West 93 22,53.1 are the geographic Once the plane hit the ground in the field The pilot remained inside the aircraft during from the plane. The pilot was supposed to check in with controllers. As radio calls went unanswered concern grew I wasn't really known at that time that As the night went on with no sign of the plane, For ten hours after the accident the plane's No one witnessed the crash and for that time During those 10 hours a snowstorm swept over At the break of day Mr. Hubert Dwyer took the same route as the aircraft, the crash When first responders finally arrived, they men covered in snow. The manager of the venue the musicians played site to identify the bodies of Buddy Holly, The news then began to spread. The passing of these men was devastating to Obviously, it was a big shock to Holly's Sadly she experienced miscarriage which was trauma after the accident. Pop music was in a way, changed forever. In the context of music, some called this A new, rather unheard phenomenon occurred up in popularity. A memorial now stands at the scene of the Fans still pay tributes to this day. Twelve years after the accident in 1971, this Pie" and even borrowed some of holly's The song since then has received critical even going on further to say it's one of The accident was now forever known as "The Patreon Outro this video, if you found it to be interesting another video to drop next weekend. I'd love to hear your thoughts on this video, I think I've ever made I went back and listened this one. A thank you to my good friend Rosalyn Aspinall of American Pie you heard in this video. She made it just for this video so hopefully comment if you want to check out her version Anyway I should take a moment here to once for their generous ongoing support, their so if you do see your name here a massive Shoutout this week to Tori Kujo for pledging thank you. Special thanks to Robert Hedges who pledged What a legend, thank you so very much. If you yourself would like to support the Breakdown Patreon from just PS1 per month comment below. That is all from me today, if you'd like out some of the video that should be on the Thank you for watching have a great weekend Goodbye!