The program is from Budapest - Sandor Friderikusz is here. - At the end of last year, with an introductory study and partly edited by Balint Magyar , a sensational book entitled 'The Hungarian octopus - A post-communist mafia state' was published. And it not only caused a stir, but also considerable interest, judging by the 12,000 copies that were sold out. This is a rarity for social science books. The volume proved its basic premise with the studies of prominent Hungarian intellectuals and social scientists, namely that the political and social system built by Fidesz over the past four years is not merely a derailment compared to Western European liberal democracy, but is independent and consciously different from Western European plural democracy. social model. Anyway, we can't have much doubt about this since the Hungarian Prime Minister openly said that his Hungary is done with the liberal, i.e. freedom-based, political and social system. What he calls the nation-state is nothing more than the acquisition of political power and the conquest of economic power, i.e. the artificial formation of a new bourgeois class loyal to the government, using political means. In other words, the mafia state, as Balint Magyar already called Viktor Orban's first state in 2001, The second volume of the 'Hungarian octopus' studies and many new and young authors. one of the founders, president, and minister of the former Association of Free Democrats , who also edited the new volume and provided it with an introductory study. Welcome here. We will discuss this new volume in depth. I have already had a chance to read into this second volume, and I have read your paper cover to cover, and if I understand correctly, you are driven to create a language to describe this system. We will go through this in detail in the conversation, but before that I ask you to tell me why it is more important to create the language, i.e. the logic, for the speech about the Orban system, than to be able to say what kind of system we want, what the desirable system? - If we don't know what we're fighting against, if we can't call that system by its name, then we can't effectively fight against it, then it's essentially like shadow boxing. As if Fidesz, or the accepted political family, to stay in this category, had glasses that could see in the dark, infrared glasses, while the others only thrashed in the dark. Those categories that are reached after the description do not fit this system and are therefore ineffective. - For example? - Well, for example, we can take categories that are too general. This is what we say when they talk about a purely illiberal state or an anti-democratic state, because there are so many types, there are many types of autocracies, but what is the peculiarity of this system, it is like saying that I look at a tree and say that tree. But it's a willow tree, a pine tree, an oak tree, and the rest, acacia wood, which is good for what, under what conditions it lives and doesn't live, under what conditions it works, if I say it's a tree, while I say, that it is an anti-democratic system, it has eliminated democracy, it seems incredibly powerful and critical, but at the same time it is like trying to go to a jousting tournament with a nail file. This kind of category won't work for the opponent. But let's say, I'm not saying it's not true, it's just false to the extent that it overgeneralizes. Then there are categories that are effectively misleading, among them I would say, for example, the term mutt, or nationalization, or the term party soldiers. In the case of such expressions, for example, when muti is used, it has underlying assumptions that no one takes into account, essentially it means... - It is more permissive than a concept, it does not cover, it does not accurately cover what we are talking about, I think that this is his problem, so the situation is even more serious, rather than operating with concepts that are so masking, let's say that do not accurately express the essence , right? - That's what it's about. The problem is not only that it is moody, but that it closes the difference in quality between the last 25 years and the present in a practically self-disarming way. - And if there is no precisely expressive language, then actually the description of the entire system also becomes false, is that your assumption? - Well, of course. If we now return to, say, the term &quot;mutyi&quot; -shady deal-, the traffic mutt, it assumes that the winners in that system had independently, independently of each other, corrupted officials in order to receive a traffic license. Here, on the other hand, it is completely different, as it is about the nationalization of a driver's license, which has not been nationalized until now, as part of a centrally organized campaign. This is done in the form of a concession, in a law, and then the process is centrally controlled, in which those who have been able to engage in this activity until now are deprived of their quasi-property, and distributed in a new round. - It's anything but traffic jam, isn't it? - This is everything, but not traffic jam. - Now you also don't think the term party soldier is good, nor that the activity of this power is described with the word nationalization . Why? - Let's say nationalization is one of the best examples of the assumption that the system is, say, an ideology-driven system, in which the current government believes that state ownership is more efficient than private ownership in certain areas, and therefore drives nationalizations in the interest of the national economy. finally. This is absolutely not the case, the motivations are completely different. The characteristic of the mafia state is that the concentration of power is accompanied by the concentration of wealth and personal wealth, and as a result of the concentration of wealth, it expropriates properties and often redistributes them through the interposition of nationalization, nationalization has other functions. So, looking behind the category of nationalization, different types can be distinguished. I call one of them cold nationalization, which means that I don't take the property, I just nationalize the economic environment around it, that is, I make it blackmailable in a political sense. Another type is, say, looting nationalization. This was, for example, the fraudulent confiscation and nationalization of private pension funds, essentially their robbery. There is nationalization like what is characteristic of traffic concessions, which I call market-capture nationalization, which is about turning previously non- monopolized activities, economic activities, into a state monopoly and dividing them, then there is transit nationalization, which means that I nationalize something just for the sake of it , so that I can then distribute it among my own circle of friends. These are the basic categories, but there are also other categories of nationalization. - Does Hungary differ from the post-communist states within the EU ? Because he considers the rest to be corrupt systems at best, and Orban's system to be a mafia state, so if you could please define this difference, what is the difference between the two? - If I cannot monopolize political power, then the private interests that want to influence politics have a kind of relative autonomy. There are different degrees of state capture. - This is the captured state. - To the captive state. But this usually goes from low-level corruption all the way to serious legislative items, but it means that these oligarchs have a kind of relative autonomy, since they are courted by different competing political forces, and this courtship is mutual and there is no expropriation. This is the exchange economy of corrupt systems, where one system is replaced by another, and in different ways, cases of corruption occur to varying degrees, and its systemic elements can be stronger and weaker. - He is now saying this about the other post-communist states. - That's right. - And then, compared to them, is Hungary now? - Compared to this, Hungary, when a political force monopolizes power, practically eliminates and abolishes the relative autonomy of these oligarchs and brings them under its control. The difference, however, is that here it is not a question of the order coming from the economy, and the economy influencing the actors of politics, but in the mafia state a political enterprise becomes an economic enterprise itself, subduing the entire toolkit of the state, the public authorities and acts in this. The question that always arises is why I use the word mafia. In fact, it happens because the analogy with the mafia is that the mafia itself is an illegitimate extension of the powers of a patriarchal family head. - Now he is talking about the Italian mafia in the classical sense of the word. - About the Italian mafia, yes, about the illegitimate expansion, but in that relationship it disposes in such a way, it tries to dispose in such a way that it does not belong to it, but there it comes face to face with a state, a public authority, they fight each other, sometimes they smear, sometimes they intimidate the representatives of the state, but essentially there are two parties involved. What happens in the mafia state is that the role and model of the patriarchal head of the family has essentially become the property of the holder of the main public powers. - In this case, to the prime minister. - The prime minister behaves like a godfather, he does not actually govern, he rules. In this respect, he is similar to the patriarchal head of the family. It disposes of property, statuses, human situations, it does so as a matter of course. At the same time, I call this a mafia state, and not simply a dictatorship, because in its legitimacy it does not have the legitimacy for this matter, just as the mafia does not, the classic mafia, to be able to legitimately exercise these patriarchal powers of the head of the family, in the same way it does not have the legitimacy for this, this has to be bridged somehow. - In this study, you write, I quote: &quot;In the post-communist mafia state, it is already clear that the boss is the one who can outlaw his rival by deploying the legislature, the tax office, the prosecutor's office or the police . means to exclude the other from the system.&quot; This means that, for example, the various news stories about the Simicska, other Orban-style fight that we are witnessing, in your interpretation, do these 'fights', which are flaring up at the moment, represent the freedom struggle of a certain group of oligarchs , if true? - Well, not the freedom struggle. The essence of the process in the mafia state is that there are different types of oligarchs, and they are categorized when eliminating their relative autonomy. The oligarchs have an inner circle, Simicska is also one of them who did not enter this system with a fortune, but specifically founded their wealth through purely political connections. I call this circle the inner circle of oligarchs. Simicska is in a privileged role, essentially the comrade-in-arms, the former comrade-in-arms, there are political comrades-in-arms who have also been demoted in this system, from Kover to Ader, no matter how respectful their position, they are essentially completely demoted, they have no individual decision-making ability, no freedom, but this comrade-in-arms in the world of economy, Simicska, whose demotion is happening now, is being promoted to an Orban... - But why? Why anyway? - Because Orban does not want to be an honorary godfather. - Does he want to be The Godfather himself? - Well, it's natural. He wants real power, when all economic relations take place through one person, when the economic, or should I say, illegitimate economic activity is channeled through, let's say, this Simicska-Nyerges line throughout public authorities, institutions, and various ministries, you can easily find yourself in a situation where whatever you decide, you may feel that it simply won't pass through the system, because there is another kind of filter. - This is what the prime minister may think, and that is why he prefers to eliminate these filters. - You're right. This is the logic of the mafia, of course the godfather does not allow one of his underlings to be in such a position that he monopolizes practically all of his connections. So there is nothing more to say here than the diversification of these relationships, the diversification of personal commitment, which of course provokes some stiff resistance, moderate resistance from the top oligarch who is about to be demoted, I could now say this to Lajos Simicska, that is, from a top oligarch, and this stiff resistance results in such a fight , which, by the way, is like this I call it that it comes with such semi-contact punches. The oligarch, who is present in the economy, bombards the poligarch with such semi-contact political blows, right, now the leaders in politics while they hit back with economic semi-contact blows. - Well, since the person in political power is stronger, the situation may arise that if he cannot sufficiently push the economic oligarch or the economic godfather into the background, then sooner or later we will witness the large businessmen who were once close to Orban being brought to court cost? - Yes. The theoretical possibility is there, but it will not happen. - Because? - It will not happen because the essence of the system is to criminalize its open opponents. Of course, this is what I call selective law enforcement. It doesn't matter if there is an excuse for it, there is no excuse for it, it is legally acceptable, this is its criminalization. - Is there already an example of this? So do you already know some kind of example from the present? - Well, now we can take the Simon case, or any case that the prosecutor's office, like the Fidesz campaign staff... - Simon, you mean the vice-president of the Socialists, the former vice-president. - Yes, as part of the Fidesz campaign staff, the prosecutor's office brings up such a case at appropriate times, and likewise in connection with the elections. And now let's ignore whether that case is just right or not. What is important is selective law enforcement, that the other person is there, of course he doesn't do this, but he can do it if he wants to. At best, he displaces, regulates, and disciplines his own. Now, Lajos Simicska probably knows that this fight cannot be won, and he will not go so far as to criminalize his own because it could mean some loss for him. Not in terms of a final showdown, as a whole, and those he displaces aren't going into it either. If we look at the entire history of Fidesz and see what happens to the outcasts, then those who are forgiven and then brought back in a lower role. It can be seen that here essentially the head of the family exercises grace, shows strength and exercises grace. - He keeps using a general subject, but he's talking about Viktor Orban all the time, isn't he? - Naturally. - Just to clarify. You put it into a system, and you interpret the current induction of Miklos Sesztak into the government from your study in the logic discussed above, who , before becoming a minister, was a lawyer who assisted in the establishment of hundreds of Hungarian, Russian and Ukrainian companies that later became phantoms and left behind large public debts. Based on what logic do you put him in this system? Or do you put him in this system? - Again, this question also leads back to language. So when we talk about party soldiers in the system, this change cannot be interpreted from the point of view of the party soldiers , since those who were there until now could also be called party soldiers, since in principle, as they believed, they are loyal to Fidesz. But the point can be shown precisely in the fact that Fidesz will cease to exist, as loyalty to the party, and only loyalty matters, attachment to the godfather, or precisely to whom they are attached, through what chain of dependence. By the way, the change that is taking place, which is to the extent that it is a change, does not occur in the event of any change of government, that is, even in the event of a change of rival political forces... - Do you know this, or do you infer it from the signs? - No, this was written anyway. Hundreds of people are simply unloaded from this system, and it doesn't have such a big impact, isn't it, because the people involved are, after all, part of a family, it's better if this war isn't so open, but it's quite clear that they're cleaning up one of the part of the system, I could even say that there is a bloodless gang war going on at this level, and they will bring someone. It is also important who they bring. They bring someone, a person who can be blackmailed. In practice, a person whose past activity can be turned into a clean criminal procedure at any time. - Would that be Miklos Sesztak? - That would be Miklos Sesztak. But there is nothing more reliable than putting such a person into the system, and thereby directly connected to the godfather himself, or even to some new libling, and thereby diversifying the economic dependence relationships in this system. - Because in case, if you don't jump as they dictate to you, then they just shake one of your cases, and that's enough for you to pull yourself together and carry out the order. I think it was already before, so it also comes from the personality to bring in a person who otherwise does not doubt, criticize, or has no extra thoughts compared to what they are entrusted to carry out, right? - That's all good, but if you can even blackmail, that's an added benefit. - We don't have the space or time here to list all the characteristics of the mafia state that you have collected but I have listed some that I would like you to explain. The first: &quot;The public interest is subordinated to private interests not accidentally, but permanently and in a systematic way that fundamentally determines political decisions.&quot; How? - This means that the order does not come from below, from the actors of economic life, and it is enforced here and there through a kind of corrupt mechanism, but the political enterprise itself becomes an economic enterprise at the same time, and practically the policies as such cease, and they serve the purposes of power concentration and wealth concentration at the same time. - But that everything actually belongs to it, is it subordinated to it? - The starting point is always this, that's right. There are no policy reasons for what is happening, there are policy consequences, which of course have to be dealt with in one way or another, since the system has limits and opportunities but the point is what the motivation and motive actually are. - Again, please give an example to make it clearer! - Well, the example, for example, I can say now. Let's say the privatization of the textbook market. The declared goal is to have cheaper and higher quality textbooks, right? Textbooks are neither cheaper nor of higher quality. This whole thing serves two purposes. One is an ideological goal, which means brainwashing, essentially an ideology that mediates, re-educates, disciplines, and the rest. And the other is a... well, tapping the state resources in this way, where I essentially pushed successful textbook publishers out of the market, some who realized that there was no need to resist and sold, offered their company, I'll buy it, I'll pay for it, others I'll simply put out of this from the market, and then I will create a system where, say, the income from a subsidized textbook market will be taken out of the system through the mediation of a state distributor, through the state textbook publishing, and then through the printing presses. That means it has nothing to do with being any real respond to an educational policy problem. Of course, this raises educational policy problems, the textbook does not arrive, it has to be delivered with the police. They write nonsense in a textbook, untenable things, and then they will correct them. So it has such consequences. - But how is this related to the fact that the public interest is not permanently subordinated to private interest in a systematic way that fundamentally determines political decisions ? - Well, that's what it's about, it's a private interest. It is in our self-interest to make money from this business, to be able to maintain our power, for this we need to be brainwashed. It has nothing to do with education, now we are at this example. - Well, that's how it gets out of the scope of policy, and the education issue, for example, suddenly becomes a victim of private interests. - But it is not possible to say a single thing, not a single other larger-scale measure, which does not have this dual purpose. - This has actually become a basic formula, a basic expectation. - That's right. The entire system is attached to this, in light of this, the system works in accordance with this demand. - In his study, he introduces several new terms, one of them being poligarcha. A poligarch is one who - I quote - acquires illegitimate economic wealth as a political enterprise from legitimate political power while his political power is open, his economic power and wealth are hidden. So this is the poligarcha, that is? - By the way, the term comes from Tamas Frei, so I took it from him. - Only from the classics, I could say that. Without any irony. - Yes, let's say it's also an important thing not to be a snob in the sense that you only quote from 'established scientists' in quotation marks when they are creating a category. I consider Poligarcha to be insightful because it describes this process, that it is essentially political actors who use their political power to create personal wealth, while this personal wealth is hidden, it is necessary to describe the actors of this system. The oligarch is the other category, which is about the fact that his open economic power is sometimes, in many cases, accompanied by hidden political power and influence, and there is a third key player in this system, the straw man, and this sheds light on the mafia state its essence, which otherwise separates it from traditional dictatorships or traditional democracies, where there is no need for straw man. Stroman bridges the gap between legitimate position and illegitimate power or illegitimate wealth. - I'm just asking for an example again. - Let's say Lorinc Meszaros. So when a company gets rich with incredible speed. His owner, his body language, shows that he is surrounded by infinite humility , but he does not possess any of the characteristics or personal traits that, say, a multi- billionaire might have, then one knows that he is the economic powerhouse, the farm officer. Farm officer, managing an estate. One way or another, or anyway, be it the football academy, fields, this, that, that. - Which is most likely not even his. - It's not his either, but let's say a part of it is openly not his, because let's say if..., and let's talk about the language again, about the Felcsuti football academy in a sociological sense, if someone creates such a foundation, then the founder, in this case the prime minister , who appoints the board of trustees and the managers of the foundation, can remove them at any time, so he is essentially the owner of this thing. He decides if all kinds of development funds are channeled into this... - Private donations? - These tax breaks called private donations, tax-deductible benefits and so on, then you accumulate a fortune, and of course, if anyone looks at a picture like this, where the proud godfather looks at his property, now it should be a football academy, and next to him is a billionaire oligarch. crouched like a fresh appointed farm officer, then you know that this is straw man. But in the same way, there are political straw men, they can be called deputies , who do not use the rights that they could use due to their position, and in essence, through the various mechanisms of blackmail and dependence in the system, practically all kinds of public power positions are filled by such straw men. Now I will take an example, from the previous period of the previous government, Economy Minister Laszlon Nemeth. Well, no one took it seriously that they were dealing with a real economy minister. Everyone treated him in the most natural way, like an executor who was once active in the business of an oligarch and was related to it. - They registered him as Simicska's man, yes. - That's right. But even the opposition did not ask him to take him seriously as a minister. He didn't even have to speak in parliament. You could see that he was a straw man, a puppet. In essence, in this sense, public power positions from the president of the republic, slowly to the Constitutional Court, the Prosecutor's Office, have all been stratified in this sense. - Because everyone is a straw man, so the president of the republic, the chief prosecutor and so on? - In essence, this is what happens in a system where the appointment rights are concentrated in the hands of a single political force, because it has a quasi-manipulated two-thirds of it and has unlimited legislative power. The essence of the legislative power is that it can put anyone outside the law at any time, or put it in there. So the legislation itself is being transformed, it is not that I set up normative rules for the country, but in fact I produce tailor-made laws, different lexis, they are known under these titles. If someone doesn't have a degree for a job that requires one, I will change the law. If someone has a conflict of interest in a position they shouldn't fill, I'll change the law again. If someone does some activity that I want to exclude but I can't exclude them using market means, I pass such a law, and this is an incredible legislative factory, it's not about why it was accelerated now, and why it's so massive, but simply about this the normal course of things is that, practically, instead of governance by decree or pure arbitrariness, arbitrariness is papered over with laws, so let's say the 'rule of law' is replaced by the 'law of rule', i.e. the law of rule, when tailor these laws. - And why do these straw men stop? For economic gain? So for them like this, so they are doing well like this? Is this the explanation? - Well, in a certain sense, they are doing well. Someone is... - Or is there such a dependence, a political dependence, that it is better to be afraid of, better to join it, in a manner worthy of servants, to carry out everything that the godfather or his people from above expect from the stroman? - Well, the following peculiarity of this system is related to this, that it transforms all the autonomous and independent positions into a patron-client relationship, and practically leaves the actors at the mercy of discretionary, unique, arbitrary decisions. This happens in an extremely rich form in the case of the most diverse social groups. Again, let's just take the teachers. So if I create a clique that is the sole employer of teachers. All principals are appointed by the minister, but the principals appointed by him do not have the right to not exercise the employer's rights, so the teachers are not hired by them, but are appointed by the district commissioners. If someone is excluded from this system because they speak out against it because they don't like something, then they cannot find a job in the entire country. This is not a sign of open dictatorship. It's not about someone saying something in the pub, and then the AVH takes him to prison. There is no need for that. So power in this sense is rational and pragmatic and emotionless. So he's simply saying, I'm creating a relationship where people are existentially vulnerable in a way but not just this one example, basically every line where it's not worth speaking out against, and everyone's priced out, who to what extent must be bought, in what positions, whom it is enough to intimidate, who is happy simply to get, say, a public job for HUF 47,000, because he has no rights as a subject, it also depends on the mayor's favor whether he will have such a job, and otherwise, you cannot make a claim, and it can be rejected at any time, in any way. - Okay, so in summary, according to your study and in your opinion, the goal of the mafia state is to eliminate all autonomous positions independent of it in political, economic and social life, right? - That's right, but that could still make it a dictatorship, but not a dictatorship in the classical sense. So it is not a fascist dictatorship or a communist dictatorship, because they enforce this goal through other mechanisms. And that's why the analogies that go back to these historical role models are misleading. - He says in his book, his study, his introductory study: &quot;The mafia state is not a system driven by ideology.&quot; This needs to be explained because every second word of the prime minister is the nation and Christianity. - Of course, but it's like if we were to say the activities of the Italian mafia, now we try to derive the activities of the classic Italian mafia from local patriotism, family-centeredness and religious values. We would see that we would get a false result, it has nothing to do with these concepts. It is necessary to decipher how these concepts change. It's not just about how it became an alternative, radical, liberal party, I say it in quotation marks, only in quotation marks, because that's not the case, the prime minister himself is a 'national conservative'. It is also about how he changes his ideological position on anything from one year to the next, if we look at the relationship with the Russians now, from one minute to the next. It is not driven by ideology. You cannot call a prime minister driven by ideology who, say, if he says that he constantly refers to God and is now trying to present himself as a believer, that, say, an Azeri Muslim ax murderer who killed an Armenian Christian is extradited in the hope of a deal . Jozsef Antall was driven by ideology when he supported the Croats in the Croatian-Serbian conflict. - But can we doubt someone's faith because, from the point of view of certain political practices he considers a situation to be useful for the country? I'm asking this under my guise, but I'd like you to explain the previous sentence! - Well, in my opinion, of course, so if someone starts as an atheist, then discovers the Reformed in himself, and then that church anyway, that Protestant church methodically - I'm thinking of Gabor Ivanyi - deprives him of all his rights, almost all his rights, when Gabor Ivanyi baptized his two children, and well, so I won't go on. Then you can see that he was not guided by some ideology, because if this church was good for him to baptize his children, then this is a Thomas Beckett story, where after all, if someone is really true to his faith, like Gabor Ivanyi, and acts accordingly, then if need to, then I'll kill you, I'll say it in quotation marks, so churches are like that. So the system is not driven by ideology. One of the most important ways of self-deception is how I start to take seriously the otherwise pragmatically and cynically used categories that this system uses. Likewise, the nationalism of this system I am thinking of his nationalism, and the concept of the nation, in this understanding, the nation does not mean classical nationalism, which is about me defining what we Hungarians mean in relation to Slovaks, Romanians, and other nationalities . In this understanding, the nation simply means for him that anyone who is a part of the adopted political family, an accessory, loyal to me, is a part of the nation, and anyone from this nation can be expelled at any time, in quotation marks &quot;from this nation&quot;, if they are disloyal to me. And what this means is that whoever is part of this family, adopted political family, is innocent, he is forgiven, he is absolved from everything, and in essence former informers, secret agents, communists, PB escape under this protective wing members, law enforcement officers, and the rest, it doesn't matter, at the same time, anyone who opposes me can be criminalized and expelled from this nation. Woe to him! - But then, if I understand correctly, you also criticize the behavior of the various political parties, when in this system, relative to this, they at most contradict, but are unable to leave the linguistic framework created by Fidesz. - Of course. I say that three phases can be distinguished when someone has an illness: perception of pain, lamentation, the second is the diagnosis, the third is the cure, the cure. The opposition is stuck in the wailing phase, and in such an undignified way that it repeats daily that we never thought it would get any lower than this, that they would dare to do this. Why wouldn't they believe it? It follows logically from this system. But if someone says that it follows logically from this system, then they say that he is prejudiced against it, his attitude is not fair, let's wait and see what happens, whether he will really do that. But isn't it, in experimental physics too, that if I prove something three times that this happening will result in this, then I can pretty much count on the consequence. Meteorology is also about, I'm not talking about a meteorologist who predicts with such and such a probability what the weather will be like tomorrow, how incorrect his procedure is, because who knows? There are laws. And that's what happens with the opposition, and you get stuck in it. It doesn't even make it to the diagnosis. Not being able to get to the diagnosis is basically a language problem. The fact that it's linguistic... - Isn't it rather intellectual? - Well, the fact that he doesn't know that it's a language problem is an intellectual problem. And there are sequences here. Until this language problem is resolved, until he can name what he's up against, then of course it's over. Cancer is a disease from which you can most likely die. But if someone doesn't know they have cancer, they are guaranteed to die. So now the opposition has it. - Then what should the opposition do according to your proposal? - To understand where he lives, but apparently he doesn't know. Now let me give you an example. If the news comes out now that after the traffic concessions, national liquor stores may now be established. And for this, one of the opposition parties requests an impact study from the government and asks it a question. Well, that makes a problem of some incredible ignorance, or does he think that now he is acting very sophisticatedly, and then everyone will think about how profoundly critical he was when he asked for an impact study, but no one thinks so, I really think it is simply stupid that on this at the level, they are also asking for impact studies on an action that is nothing more than taking away certain driving licenses from someone, ruining them existentially, and with state aid, I will transfer them again to friends and others in the same way, to a part of people who are part of an adopted political family. And after that, the opposition, having seen this five times, seeing what has happened in the last four years, is asking for an impact study. This is simply unworthy, unworthy, and one must say that they do not even deserve to overthrow this system. - On the one hand, you analyze this all in great detail, very thoroughly and embedded in a system, on the other hand, I have to ask this question, whether you don't think that you are a little over your own mind, and in the sense of the word that you assume so much awareness about all of this, how is there such a thinking machine that has thought it through in such an organized way, so infinitely thoughtfully, with regard to every detail and then operates all of this? - Master plan, there is no master plan. This was brought up another time, right? It's like they know what they want in advance, but I don't think so. In truth, things move in such a triple force field, motivations and motives on the one hand, and limitations and opportunities on the other. What opportunities can we use, what are the limitations, how, but what is the motivation. And that explains this thing. It is essentially an evolutionary system that itself develops and evolves, learns in its own way and builds itself, moves logically, and its actions can be interpreted in this logic. That doesn't mean you know exactly how you're going to get there in the end. The fact that, let's say, the traffic mutt has come and is arguing about this... - You use the mutt too, see? - Yes, wrongly, that's right, that's right. The issue of traffic concessions, or the issue of wealth redistribution, we don't even have the right words for it. So the analysts are debating whether this came about now because there was a tobacco industry entrepreneur who had an interest in this, who brought up this idea and then it unfolded. Maybe the idea came from outside, let's say in a case like this. This may be a basic order. But the fact that it was put together as a system results from the logic of the system, and the fact that another, then a third, similar mechanism is built on top of this mechanism, which is formed here through a learning process, with land leases, then with national liquor stores, and there could be quite a few others. .. - Does it continue to develop through experience? - Of course, and in the case of limitations, of course you have to react. The whole so-called peacock dance is not about anything else, isn't it, the system is not driven by ideology, if necessary we dance back a little, we make a gesture here, we make a gesture there, but the gestures are never those that reflect our rule, the politics that define our identity, the would undermine its elements, but strengthen it. - Do you have an idea of what and how this system can fail? - There isn't any now anyway. It could be a thousand things, starting with an economic collapse, but I don't believe in it that way. One thing is for sure. If there is no serious alternative political force that understands where it lives, then there is no surface for any discontent and no resistance to this system, then everyone is forced to resolve the tension between the fact that he might not like this system , valuable, principled, etc. for human reasons, on the other hand, he is at his mercy... - So either he listens or he compromises. - And he negotiates, there is no fairy tale, and then the story comes out that after that he creates an excuse and an ideology for himself and this is a very difficult process. Even before 2014, when it came up that it was not interesting, 2014 was lost by the opposition, and then 2018 came. It was my opinion, I said several times, that it would be more difficult in '18 than it would have been in '14. So for this I will return to the stove again, if there is no language, then it is not possible to climb out of this thing in any way. This is the basis for all further steps. About the further studies of the new, i.e. second, volume of the 'Hungarian octopus', which will be published soon, just say a few things in terms of title, i.e. what new chapters have been opened, from what new areas the same thing is presented, what he predicted here in a formulaic way about the system. - Just a few examples. Balazs Trencsenyi, for example, writes about the fact that the essence of his study is to review transitological literature. In Hungarian, it is exactly how countries located on this democracy-dictatorship axis , who tried to analyze them in what way and with what language set. Former constitutional judge Imre Voros writes about the entire process of constitutional amendment and constitutionalization, about this system of inverting the law Laszlo Bekesi, about the economic policy of the mafia state. A young author, David Jancsics, talks about corruption brokers as a special actor in this corruption mechanism, and the development of these corruption brokers how it develops, how these roles develop. There will be an educational chapter, with Mihall Andor. There will be a municipal study. Incidentally, Krisztian Ungvary writes about ideologies in this volume. So there is quite a lot to choose from. Now I specifically mentioned the new authors, two-thirds of the authors are new authors compared to the previous volume. - Thank you very much, it was meaningful, although it didn't really excite me. - I also thank. - Tonight I spoke with sociologist Balint Magyar, one of the founders, president and minister of the former Association of Free Democrats, on the occasion that the second volume of the 'Hungarian octopus' will soon be published, with twenty more studies on the essence of the Orban system and the definition of the mafia state. And to solve the gloomy theme of today's show again before going to bed with some bonbons in the evening, the other day we showed how the female face has changed again in typical images of the past half-millennium. I am definitely of the opinion that men's faces tell more about the passage of time. With these, we say thank you for today,