- David Hoffmann. - What's up, man? - What's up, man? - In Miami finally. - From &quot;David's Been Here.&quot; We are in Miami. We actually just arrived to the airport. We landed an hour ago in Miami. David came to pick us up, and we're immediately What are we gonna eat, David? - Well, we're gonna eat croquetas. We're gonna eat Cuban We're gonna try some Venezuelan food. - (Mark laughing) Yes! - [David] I mean, starting off - And so, we're gonna all of this Miami food experience. We're gonna eat a lot of and we're gonna share with (upbeat Latin music) David, so, first place, - First place. - What's the story behind this place? - Okay, so this is the most on the planet. It started off in 1971, and this is the place where all they gather here. We have Cuban coffee, we have pastelitos, which are like basically We have the Cuban sandwich here. I mean this is where it was, some people debate Key West or Tampa, but I personally think - But definitely somewhere in Florida. - Somewhere in Florida. - (laughs) Okay, we're (upbeat Latin music) (speaking in foreign language) - The window, this is - Let's just drink everything. - Everything, everything. So we got four different coffees. So you have the coffee, the cafesito, which is just like an espresso. You have colado, which is If you have one past 2:00 p.m., That's it. - Exactly what I need. - That's what I need too. That's what I always get. And then we have cafe con leche, which is like 70% milk, 30% coffee. And then you have a cortadito. Cortadito is like 70% coffee, 30% milk. - Okay. (upbeat music) - Man, it really pays and it really helps to brush up on your Spanish because maybe even more Spanish is spoken in Miami than English. But we got an array of different things; there's the pastelitos, which It's like a pocket filled and then we got the croquetas, which are like little egg And then we got a variety that they serve, just - So it's almost like a triple, right? So, let me put one right here. Let me not pour everything. So you pour like that, So it's for sharing, - Here we go, this is the (all laughing) - No, that's awesome. - It's awesome. - [All] Cheers guys, cheers. - To begin this Miami food tour. Delicious coffee. It's like an espresso It's got a smoky, smoky Just delicious. Let's try, what should we try next? The croqueta, okay. Croqueta de jamon. There's some ham inside of it. - [Both] Cheers. - Oh wow, dude. It's like kinda gummy. It could be like doughy or potato-y, with ham folded within it, and then deep-fried so - And it's like creamy. - Creamy. So you immediately get that contrast of the crunchy outer exterior with the gummy ham fragrance That's a world-class coffee snack. Okay, I'm going for the next coffee. Oh yeah, it's like pure espresso, but then you taste how the as it was brewing, so that's with that amazing roasted coffee flavor. Okay, I'm gonna try the empanada. This is like a deep-fried pocket. This one, this one must be It's like cream cheese, it's but instead of cherry, it's guava. You got that, the creaminess plus the sweet tartness of the guava. (laughs) It's so good. It is good. - I love the guava. - That one looks like the filling-- - No, it's good, it's good. I love the combination. - Exactly. Next coffee. This one is good too. This one is frothy and foamy with milk. The harshness of the coffee It's more smooth as an easy And I think this is the This is another empanada with - This one's also very creamy. - Yeah. I'm all for the combination I mean, sweet and coffee is also good, but savory and coffee Great start, delicious. (bright music) - And so after eating the croquetas and after drinking the coffee, we're now going back, thank you so much. We're going back into the kitchen. We're gonna see some of and we're also gonna see the The Cuban sandwich. (bright music) Frying some of the croquetas now, it's going down in the deep fryer. You can just see them bubble up. Bringing them out right now. Those come out of the oil perfectly crunchy, but and all of that cheese and ham just oozing on the inside. (bright music) Now we're walking over through to the bakery section of Versailles to see them as they make the... It's like an entire different I love how there's different sections so you can choose what you for that day when you come here. - We're going this way. - All right. - There you go. - Sweet, thank you. This is like a room dedicated And immediately on the countertop, there are two loaves they're like meter long. (bright music) Put first this ham, then like a roast pork with a secret recipe, and - [Chef] Swiss cheese, yes sir. (upbeat music) - So after the meat and the Swiss cheese, then he added on a layer of butter to the top of the bun, of the bread, and then he added on some pickles, then he took it off. Then he cut it into four equal parts, and then he added on pickles and mustard. (upbeat music) Cool, so you get toast on plus toasted on the meats, but the sauce has never - The last part is, and then you put the bar and this is the signal for It's pretty good. - And the meat is toasted at - Yes sir. (bright music) - You can see the development, the stages of the melting cheese, just, and again, just genius how it's toasted. Then you put them back together, and now it is just toasting That cheese is starting to ooze, the aromas of the ham are coming out. It's like, it's a simple I think, is what's really gonna make it. (bright music) Thank you chef. We're going back to the other dining room to eat the Cuban sandwich and But just take a moment to They have at least 100 just beautiful, baked, Cuban delights. (upbeat Latin music) Along with the Cuban sandwich is also, I have a plate of pastries, Which is awesome. - It's amazing (laughs). - I think what's amazing to me is, it's actually simple. It's not a lot of sauces, The meats are special, the combination is Cheers, triangle. - Yeah. (sandwich crunching) - It's just perfect. - It's everything man, so many flavors. - Layers of meat, the ham, the pork, the Yeah, the mustard. That's like the main flavor. - The pickle, also. The little twist to the right. Oh yeah, man. I just love how the Swiss cheese is melted throughout the - You've been eating Cuban - I live right here. - For sure, you're from Miami. With one bite, you think it's a-- you almost think you're then the next bite, you almost think you're And then you realize, It's just like simplicity perfection. Also, just its engineering, There's very little sandwich backslide. There is, there's no It just all holds together. So next up for the pastries, We've gotta push inside. The flakiness of it. Wow, oh yeah. It's just a little bit sweet. I mean, that's the contrast. The sweet, the savory, that's The meat in there, the flakiness, like butteriness of that pastry dough. It's like a croissant almost. Okay, next up for the guayaba. This one is really Cuban. We're just like flaking - So many layers, you know? - So yeah, it's so flaky. My lap is just covered in Yeah, that one is so good. It's like a guava jam. - Guava's like sticky. - Wow. That was delicious, I love how there's so and, again, it's such an And that was a learning especially about the Cuban coffees and about the Cuban sandwich. From here, David is taking us to a place to eat another Cuban specialty. (upbeat Latin music) Now we are driving, really, It is like mini Cuba. It's Little Havana within Miami. It's a city within Miami. And we're driving down Calle Ocho, which is one of the main streets that goes straight through Little Havana. (upbeat Latin music) We're in Little Havana, David. Where are we going next? - We're going to El Rey So this place has a Cuban burger. (upbeat music) - Cuban burger, but with egg and bacon? - Yeah, that's it. - Oh man! Okay, so step into El Rey it just has a classic feel to it. This is another staple in Iconic restaurant. I love the bar counter seating. (upbeat music) - You have like seven you can just get a regular, you can get it with sweet I mean, whatever you want, they got it. (speaking in foreign language) - All right, let's go inside. (laughs) (speaking in foreign language) - All right, here we go. - It's even in the name las fritas, which are like And that's just like a sea of oil. They put just bucketful into the oil. Those are simmering, You can see the little the crunchy and crispy they're gonna get from that deep-frying action. And that's a major part of (upbeat music) He started, for the Cuban burger, he starts off with this patty, it's almost a ball shape, That fries for a little bit where he takes the spatula You can see it oozing out as it oozes out like into a perfect patty. Actually what's the beauty It's not like a perfect circular shape, it has edges on it because with the spatula. Every burger has character. And then another favorite move is where he sprays on some sauce. The secret sauce which and then another, pimiento And then he just bubble in (sizzling) Another favorite step is he does it so fast, I can't even barely but he flops the bun, half and then flips it upside down so the burger is on top of Then a huge dollop, a huge go on top of that, and then from there you get your different like egg if you want. (upbeat Latin music) They're making the burgers fresh for us, but we're starting off with a juice, which is more like a, or I'm not sure what it is. What is it? It's, oh I forget the name of it. I forget the name of it. I know I ate it, I know I had I had it in Mexico too. - It's mamey. - Mamey, yes, immediately. (speaking in foreign language) - Okay, this one, original. - Original. - This one is with a giant slab of cheese. And plantain. - Grilled cheese and plantains. This one is with the egg, right? And bacon, egg and bacon. - Yeah. - So three different I think the point of the the mini shoestring fries, falling out of your burger so that you have extra on the side. I mean there's no way to hold them inside. This is, it's made for the backslide. You want the backslide this time. - All right, here we go. - You wanna share stools with me? - Three guys, two stools. - Between the stools. - Okay. (fries crunching) Oh, wow. - Wow. - Good. Oh, you got yolk squirted out. - I got like hot meat juices It's so incredibly juicy. - I was not expecting that. Literally exploded with various juices. That cheese, the grilled cheese, and then the crunch of all those fries. - Yeah, I mean, you also You feel it, right? Crispy onions. - And there's raw onions too. - There's raw onions as well. - Crispy onions and raw onions and now that you think about it, you taste the flavor of that that have been caramelized - It's good right? - And it's more like It's like a spiced meat, exactly. Oh, man. - That's why it's so good, right? - So good. We crunch it? - Yeah you can pour 'em on top. (upbeat Latin music) - I don't wanna put it - Swap? - Should we burger swap? (laughing) - I mean, if you want to, dude. I don't know, that cheese (both laughing) - Are we going clockwise I'm gonna pick up this is the egg one. The yolk has just spilled This is the Crystal? - Yeah. I'd personally go with Tabasco. - Okay, but they don't have it, dude. - This is a Crystal's place. Okay, perfect. - Oh my God, the sweet plantain. - The egg is good, but that one with the plantain and the - Yeah it's unbelievable. - That one's the best. Okay, pass. Okay, final one. This one, I think the - Cheers. - Cheers. - Cheers. - They're all good. The supreme with the plantain and the cheese tops everything. Without a doubt. But they're all good. But don't miss the supreme. What do you guys think? - I think the supreme is number one. I mean, the cheese, the sweetness - The contrast of flavors. - The contrast. The original is good, I but you gotta go with that. - The original is still awesome. But, dude, the texture, - Oh, and then the sugarcane (laughing) - That was incredibly tasty. That combination and layers of texture, and that secret sauce as well as the squashing move, like, the sum of it all together, Okay, and we are moving on We better cross the road when there's no traffic. I think this is Calle Ocho still. (upbeat Latin music) Thank you for watching part one. Now continue to the next of this ultimate Miami food tour, where David and I head to Calle Ocho to taste a crazy amount of ice cream. Guava syrup and chocolate David takes me to his favorite - Perfectly melty, warm, oozy. - And we end the day by eating The size of your forearm. The colossals, looks like (both laughing) (upbeat Latin music)