The FBI is the United States' premier law that range from counter-terrorism to drug With such a broad range of responsibilities, to come across a wide variety of suspects, most skilled in the world. Today we're going to teach you some basic other agencies that you can use in everyday perhaps figure out when someone is lying to First though, it's important to note that and an interview. An interview is typically a fact-finding mission, In an interview, the interrogator is typically a crime, and is seeking more general information Interviews are commonly undertaken with witnesses, as well, and based off information gleaned, interrogation. An interrogation on the other hand is a quest gain a confession. In an interrogation, the person conducting facts of a case or incident, and is simply be missing. An interrogation can also serve to force a previous interview, or to encourage them to Finally, an interrogator may be perfectly use an interrogation to gain a confession. Despite what you might think, the FBI does and instead it is department policy that establishing to fact gathering than intimidation, misdirection, In the early 2000s when the Abu Ghraib prison the CIA and the US military had been beating States Inspector General announced that the to department guidelines. In fact, many FBI interrogators flat-out refused as the CIA and the military put it, 'enhanced of interrogations, then reported the individuals This integrity from the FBI is what helped to the abuses by military and CIA personnel. So how can you better get at the truth in What techniques can you learn and apply to First, a former FBI agent and interrogator many of the facts of what you're seeking information If a suspect believes that the interrogator events, then the tone of the interrogation This might encourage a suspect to be deceitful, So say that you're interrogating your co-worker, from the refrigerator and you suspect it was First, make sure you're as well informed as interrogation. This means gathering intelligence on Kelly- What does she like to eat? When does she typically eat? Are there witnesses that can perhaps let you the time your lunch went missing? More mundane details are important as well, when the sandwich went missing, how many other basically the more facts you're aware of, When most people are confronted in a situation it can act as an intimidating force, making on you. Also, the more obviously well-informed you you're willing to sit down for an extensive it would just be better to give up the goods You've probably seen cop shows on tv where for a suspect they're sure committed a crime. Typically the detective will lie about evidence he's about to be discovered and might as well While there are some instances where lying not recommended that you do so. Your lie may work, but if it doesn't and the in a major way. Once you've lied to a suspect and they've they can't trust you, and clam up. They could also assume that any plea deals effectively take away any leverage you might You know Kelly took that sandwich, you can and smell the chicken parmesan on her breath- have security camera footage of the deed, In that case, your interrogation is over, a woman that doesn't owe you a sandwich since offense. Rather than trying to trick or intimidate that you should build a rapport with the suspect If the suspect learns that they can trust more prone to sharing information they wouldn't Also, in the criminal system a suspect that believe that the interrogator will later tell thus reduce their criminal penalty. You want to slam a book down on the table, It's time for good cop, bad cop, because now the chicken parm yourself. Yet she won't admit it, she steadfastly refuses So rein in your anger and center yourself. Be courteous, ask her about her typical lunch, have together as far as food is concerned. You'll be working to drop Kelly's guard and you're this nice to her now, maybe you'll time to punishing the person responsible for Now it's time to turn up the heat, it's time Developed by a professional consultant and technique is one of the most widely adopted The first step is to confront the suspect them. Tell Kelly that your sandwich went missing, went missing, she was not at her desk according Further, let her know that you're aware of parmesan from Grubhub. Be confident and start letting Kelly know Her stress levels will begin to rise, and the lookout for fidgeting, licking of lips, Kelly ate your damn chicken parm and is lying Next step is called theme development, and Kelly committed the crime that she did. You'll re-tell the criminal act, but with You should speak to her in a soft, soothing Kelly into a false sense of security. Be aware of how she reacts to your theme as she isn't responding at all, change the story This will make up the bulk of your interrogation, reinforce this step. Kelly forgot her lunch that day, so she figured, again. Then lunch time came though and Kelly realized and that means she doesn't have service ever, Oh no, Kelly thought, what am I going to do That's when she went to the employee refrigerator, a stray cup of yogurt someone never ate, perhaps and forgotten. Nobody would miss that lonely cup of yogurt. But that's when she saw it, your delicious Next to the refrigerator, the microwave... the perfect place to hide and enjoy an ill-gotten Kelly could practically taste the melting at all, and her stomach was rumbling. She's not a bad person, she just had a small See what we did there? We created a theme that was sympathetic to of view that didn't treat Kelly like the dirty, We excused her theft, appealed to her sense believe that we understood and were sympathetic Throughout your building of the theme though, spot. Once a suspect is allowed to voice a denial, Every time Kelly tries to object and voice it'll be her turn to talk in a minute. Don't let her start to voice denials or she'll Be polite, but very firm. Next, you'll have to be ready to overcome Denials are basically just brief, "I didn't statements. Objections however offer logic-based reasons the crime. Kelly might say, "I could never have stolen because someone stole his sandwich!" It's your job to use the information she gives You can for instance reply with, "I understand so awful after what happened to your father, and out of control. I understand." You should turn objections into admissions At this point, Kelly is frustrated, she's It's your job to vent some of that pressure, This whole time you should have been either the room, towering over her. That makes her feel smaller, and vulnerable, of the table, lower yourself to her level Put a hand on her shoulder and offer physical Now it's time to get your confession, it's At this stage, you offer two different motives One should be more reasonable, so as to nudge be more morally repugnant- this will help and lead to confession. It doesn't matter if this motivation is real Tell Kelly that perhaps she stole the sandwich heck you couldn't resist the temptation of though you're supposed to be dieting! This motive is understandable, and relatable, person could excuse. It's just a mistake, that's all! Then tell Kelly that perhaps she stole the father's sandwich which led to his death by Perhaps Kelly loves to starve people to death, could get away with it again today! This motive is outrageous, and morally repugnant, that's good, that's what you want her to do, her down the road of the first motive. I know you're not a sandwich-killer, Kelly, such a nice person. You were just hungry, it was a mistake, I At this point, Kelly's probably in tears, Congratulations! Because you've just used FBI interrogation to stealing your sandwich- and it's good that because everything you just did to your co-worker and you're going to need a new job after you Think you could use these techniques in your Have you ever been a dirty office food stealer? Let us know in the comments! And as always if you enjoyed this video don't great content!