I just started this ten minute timer and that room all the way over there, And the only man that can stop it This video is completely real time. You'll notice it's exactly 10 minutes long. There are no cuts. And if Darcy does not escape and get through all five floors of before the timer hits All right, he's coming down. Okay, - I got to go quick. Go, go. Wait, how did he get out of that jacket It doesn't matter. This next Slower, slower, slower. Holy. You put fire in there? Okay, you need to use the lock pick - Faster! Come on. Oh my gosh, come on. Even with a tool, He has to perfectly align all three pins By the way, in order to prove this video starting now, you're going to see in the corner of the full video. And as of now, a minute has gone by And remember, he still needs to get through all five floors of this tower The button's right here. ...to keep his quarter I'm getting so much anxiety. Please go faster Wait, Mack, he's picking the lock. Is he making good time or not? So now, yeah, But he's about to go down Be careful. Don't catch a fire. Darcy, go. - Go! Go! He's coming down the rope, he's in the glue room now. Welcome to floor number four. Come on. He's already made it This is floor number four. - Ok. So this entire floor He has to choose between monkey barring And I would very much advise So far so good on the monkey bars. Keep going, buddy. Come on. - Come on, Darcy do it! Two minutes has gone by. Go on your head, man. Oh, no. Why are you spinning? If he falls, that is not good, because that is the stickiest I'm not even joking, Oh, yeah. It's already been 2 minutes. Dude, he's swinging. The man is glueless. Oh, yeah. He's about to lift up that lid. And now he's about to enter Keep taking us down. Watch this. You're going to see him Oh my God, boys, I'm so tired. Oh, Darcy's struggling, but he's making his way down the boulder room. This one should be pretty simple. All right, Darcy, Yes. Well, these two ropes are the only thing There's also a machete. and let's just say You're losing time. what do you think you'd do with the knife? - I'm trying to cut these ropes. You're running out of time. Normally in our videos, when someone we cut it out, but this is life. We literally can't cut it out. Seven minutes remain. He's almost through the first of two This is like some James Bond stuff As he goes lower, the floors are He's actually not making as good That rope is going to take him because of how thick it is. Cut the rope. - He's wasting a lot of time on this. This knife is so dull. You're going to have to hurry. Under seven minutes remain Bro is still cutting the rope. Jimmy, what's going When he cuts that second rope? Something crazy is going to happen. And Darcy, what do you think All right, I guess Darcy's locked in. Jimmy, what is going to happen This boulder is going to go, - Tell me, please, - Yes. Okay, That's. That's. I can handle that. There's no way I'm losing this 250 Jimmy, why did you find the slowest Darcy, hurry up. Like I told You're seeing everything. Obviously, but if you could talk to us, that he's a world but apparently is not the best Darcy, you spent a whole minute on this. Oh, my God. Cut faster, come on. Bro, you have got to cut Oh my gosh. Oh, he's about to finish the last Darcy, push the boulder down the ramp. So, the boulders is going to... - You'll see in a bit. He's pushing the boulder now. - Brace yourself. Back up. - Keep going. Darcy, quick, and attach it to the latch Make 100% sure that it's connected. What is he going to do? All right, now, jump down. Step out to the edge - All right. Watch what? Am I going to have to jump, Jimmy? Oh my God, he's about to jump. Go to your right. What is he going to do? - What is he doing? All right, Darcy, Oh my God, how am I going to do this? - Let's go, Darcy. What the... Okay. He has exactly 5 minutes left. Stop the crane. Stop the crane, stop the crane, stop the crane. All right, I don't know, You got to make it through This floor is by far Not only does if he accidentally touches a laser, his money will instantly explode. How am I going to do this? While he's doing this laser room. I'm going to tell you guys about In here? - Mack. You probably know T-Mobile - Yes, I do. I do. Okay. You know, Okay. But what T-Mobile has Jimmy, he's halfway Oh, he's on our side. is they have something Okay. What is Magenta Status? It's where they treat Just by using T-Mobile, at hotel rooms, you can get free in-flight Wi-Fi, - Go, go, go. T-Mobile, I'm stressing out. Sorry if I'm forgetting - And the best part is, Mack... - Yes, let me finish the T-Mobile ad. And the best part is... It's all available. Day one, So, if you're not currently using T-Mobile, You can get all these perks Let me just catch my breath here. See how at tmobile.com/status. Oh, he's in the water. Oh my God. All right, this is it, He now has to open the four valves allowing all the water to drain, Then he can escape out and hit the button You got to turn these. Turn these things? - Turn. What's he doing? Actually, don't help him. Let's see if he's smart enough Will he be able to hold his breath to unscrew all four valves, Did the water come out? Hey, he did it. While this guy is doing I want tell you about the greatest Feastables. Mack. What do you think of Feastables? Oh, it's my favorite. Oh no, he's going for the one Hey, hey. Do the other one, do the other one. - You got to keep going. How much time is left? Oh, three minutes. Yeah. He actually kind of He could do this if you just hurries up. Come on, catch your breath, let's go. Mack, he's about to go under, He didn't do it yet. He didn't do it yet. All right, keep turning. - Oh, he did it. - Oh my God. All right. He's now making - You got to go swim down. This is coming down to the wire. I cannot imagine how absolutely Ok. All right, so he has two minutes press that red button It's coming down to the wire. You got it. You got it. I don't know what to do. Normally, we do cuts and edits, Everything I'm saying is making it. - Oh, he's got less than two minutes. Bro. - Hey, less than two minutes. He's getting close, he's getting close. He got it. He just did it, he got all four. He did it. All right, the final door, All right, what now? Now he has to open this door, run - How much time does he have? How is he going to pull this off? I don't get it. You're going to get wet if you stand there, Why? Open it. There is so much more water - All right, Mack, hey. Mack, in case he fails, so I need you to just, hide behind - Okay? Just trust me. What do I do? You have to unscrew all the latches. Get him out of there, come on. Almost a minute, come on, come on. Bro... I don't know if he's The door stuck because there's He needs to wait for it to drain Wait, Jimmy, the water is starting Turn it, turn it, turn it and pull it. Pull it. You got to go, buddy. He's stuck in that one, Something's wrong. Bro, this is it. He can't figure out He literally has 45 seconds It stuck, come on. Bro, he can't get these latches off Bro... What is he doing? Come on. Come on. You got 30 seconds, Go! You have to slide through the door Go faster. Go. Go! - Come on. Hurry, before the bomb blows up. - Yeah! And after he won with 19 seconds left, we cleared and asked him I'm having a baby tomorrow. What? And then we blew the building up. Oh Gosh. I hope you enjoy the explosion. We have to make this video