I am Muslim, of the same generation as I believe in god. I pray sometimes, but sometimes I drink I am the one that men - To the Muslims who remained behind, I am Muslim and a journalist. I can go where my colleagues - They are tracking us down one by one, They lock them in Daesh invests in big-ticket films Me with a tiny hidden camera. I will try to expose who totally controls his image. - On the way to paradise. I want to know what they Showing off their less successful soldiers. Expose their ruse. - If I don't come back for any reason or For me, Daesh is not I blame them for perverting I blame them for the suspicious looks - I want to attack the unbelievers. You won't see my face, Because after 6 months of infiltration, "You're done, man!" &quot;Yes, we have an enemy and we must One of the elements of Islamism Salafism. The enemy had a name. I started by going frequented by Salafist Muslims, who seemed to live in another century. They are appointed by the government So, they are afraid of the cameras. For a month I saw beards. But I didn't find any terrorists. On the contrary, those who speak to me - Take care of yourself, don't As they left their mosque, The first sympathizers of Daesh, but on Facebook, There are a few things to know. A lion A photomontage evoking the end of the world, the last battle between the jihadists I subscribe to a few Facebook groups Like this French-speaking and explicit one: And there, the new friends Among them, a young person is He calls himself Abu Osama, He invites me to join a messaging service On Telegram, I have the impression Here, the Daechians express themselves without filter. They are in conflict against the imams - The majority of Muslims, that they're not even real Muslims, like They want democracy, secularism, He is Abou Chahid, he is a Thanks to him, I learn I have to be careful, Never say Daesh, Their words are Dawla, After a few weeks, I think I want to make a difference and the real terrorists. Shahid They meet there every Friday with - When you see the believers and the this does not happen without the will of Allah. our brothers around the world Allah will give victory with certainty and In front of the mosque, I find Abou Chahid. - There are quite a few You recognize him physically They are less interested The challenge is the hide-and-see game. - Afterwards, you put French names, - Who finds you? In fact, the Salafists and For Salafists and They decide instead to And for the Daeshians, moderates sold to unbelievers. They circulate an image on to the point of being effeminate. They are suspected of being On Facebook, supporters We see the European leaders My new friends noticed - But in addition, the planes that land businessmen and all, - With a r**** launcher, you can You do something like that, - France will be traumatized All these guys are famous The man in blue calls himself Joseph. He says he was arrested in and another jihadist Abou Chahid boasts of having been on the square in front of La Defense, near Paris. - I have to clock in 4 times and I have no right Both are on S file. I wouldn't know their real name. I too have a nom de guerre, It's Abu Hamza. After 15 minutes they leave I feel like I don't have I'm not discouraged. I will be back He is less suspicious than the others, He is even quite proud - I have a special situation. I'm under control, but - Have you been to prison here in France? I check. He was indeed detained in February 2015. - My situation is complicated, it absolutely has to be and not me who goes to see him, I just need to get out of Indre So I'm going to Chateauroux, I couldn't imagine waiting for a jihadist, just behind the Saint-Andre church, on We are going to cross the whole city with the I wonder why Osama I will quickly understand - The advantage with you, - You're not known for that. - If you let your beard grow, Whereas if you do something like With a nice little beard You dress well, you I don't want them to suspect. Osama takes me to a base We start by praying. He performs his ritual ablutions in the lake. I never saw that. - There are 2 camps. The camp of Allah and the camp of the Sheitan, those who refuse to It's only 2 camps, I feel that Osama wants We start by watching videos - Pride. &quot;To all those Muslims If you have the possibility Osama says he wants to go fight in Syria. Throughout after 12 p.m., will try to - Do we want to go to Sham? &quot;The order has been given to you to fight What are you waiting for? There is nothing - Brother, I'm going to do something crazy here. I will attack the unbelievers. I want Allah to give me martyrdom. That I may frighten these enemies, these enemies of God, these unbelievers. Put fear in their hearts. Because we are going to die, God is going to delete us and he is going to do - Yes, but of course. You, for example, 20 years old is young... I prefer to die young, Live a long time ? I do not want to live Osama lives perched in a parallel world, somewhere between propaganda and the televised death of the Kouachi brothers. - All of France came together, and we are surrounded. Only death can - How do you get out? - A big chased kick I'm not going to make too many gestures, Until you receive twenty Because already, the martyr, They're going to take you to heaven. God will laugh at you. With a smile, we will look at each other and On the way to heaven brother? This is the true path. Come on, we're going to paradise. We put a - If God wills, You think I'm not enough... - With a smile, always Tell yourself that when you meet... When Allah authorizes martyrdom, you will join women in paradise. You are walking towards your exit from prison. You look far away, you can't see the ends. And it will belong to you. You will see angels that they you will have the pleasure of Allah. you will have your horse next to you, and that it will only be for you. He will have wings, you will go wherever you want, you will see your brothers, you will feel that And that's nothing. I get into Osama's delirium. to know more. While he sells me joys It's his father. - Nothing prevents you from returning - Basically, there's only death I'm with Tito. For what - Is it me, Tito? Osama is 20 years old. He is following a training course He was raised by his French mother, But for 2 years he has lived Osama's father. I will finish He is a worthy man who He is distraught. He agreed to receive us - Is that him there in the photos? - How old is he ? - 6 years I think. For a year and a half, it's been a nightmare. Everything that happens, I never believed that I never thought that my son I was afraid because there There are many young people who steal, But he has become an Islamist now. That too is a danger. I can see who he hangs out with, but I monitor everything I can. - You call it day? - Yes, I don't know how many times. If I don't see him for 1 hour, when he goes to school for example, I wait until 3:45 p.m., if he doesn't come - It must take a lot of energy - I have to, because I worry. Osama's father is far from imagining his son is gathering He even made a logo that The members of the first circle are on it. The news of the day is that they - Brother, they named me. - You are the emir. - I said: "There are only 3 of us left, I didn't want to be an emir. "Brothers, we must that we build things well.&quot; - There are 8-9 of us. - Why Junud of Allah? For now, members of the soldiers In Syria, there is Youssef, a Tunisian. He trains the new He makes them dream with his heavy weapons. In Roubaix, in the north of the It comes from neighborhood banditry. He claims to be wanted by the police It's a child's brain He is undoubtedly the most unstable of the group. - The statuses you posted. Where do they come from, which Facebook does it come from? In Charleroi, Belgium, there is In Abidjan, Ivory Coast, He is a converted Christian. In the east of France, there are whom I met at the Stains mosque. Since joining ISIS, - Don't worry, Booba, La Fouine, I light them from the turret, my guy. Don't even worry, On Telegram they exchange photos It is a symbol of allegiance to ISIS. Funny gang. Funny boss. But it's not a bluff. Osama is going to prove to me that he has a real Today, 2 members of the group are One of them wants to get married Osama asks me to be one of the witnesses. - We're going to marry him! - It's for a good cause. - Who is the girl, who is the sister? - She is under my guardianship at the moment. Is she waiting there? Does she know she's getting married today? I discover that the Daeshians to avoid any contact between - We brought together the brother who wants to get married We're going to have the wedding. Do you want to marry Abou Imrane? - I tell you that I give you the So, I give you Oum Salama - I accept. - By the grace of Allah, you are married. That's it, I'm going to hang up. You are married to Abou Imrane. - The brother is married! Telegram is the real one Every night I listen to it The youngest in the circle, Abou Shahid, at the evocation of charms, - The first moment, when you go You're freaking out, you're seriously attracted, your steps, your feet everything A sick attraction. - The houris. I'm dreaming. - There will be wine, there will be honey. There will be milk, water. - We will walk around We must attack the enemy without - It's a dream, certainly. But it's a dream that Telegram is not just a place In 2 clicks, I find the d**** staged like the snuff movies with which I also find tutorials, explosive belts, mainly in Arabic, Theoretically, the police are supposed to and throw everything into prison All these documents are on traditional websites. Track jihadist content. It's the center's job. A few dozen gendarmes, I'm a little bit surprised. - You don't have anyone who speaks Arabic here? We used tools in so the translation is We can also see who is posting which turn out to be apologetic. - It is not a handicap not to - It might be better to we here are content with this The police do not arrive communication channel for jihadists, Telegram. - To have access to Telegram content, We are obviously not going to open it under National Gendarmerie, otherwise that You must be able to open it under a pseudonym. Now, even if it seems opening a Telegram account is extremely regulated under French law. People who &quot;are content to They don't prepare not in a proven way, not in an obvious way, there, we don't have the right - But is this a huge obstacle to the investigation? As a last resort, the gendarmes would have but it is not that simple. - Telegram asserts in argument with the police and gendarmerie forces. So perhaps a little naively, to ask them for information. Telegram was created by Pavel Durov. This young Russian computer scientist It would be to escape that he would have created a network of We wanted to question him He did not want to meet us. Just once at a geek meetup - It worries you that - It's a good question. - Sleep well at night knowing that - That's a very good question, I think. that our fear of inconvenience, But in reality, the people of Daesh will find If their communications they will take another software. I don't think we should I think we are on the side of Good. Pavel Durov has a very On his Facebook page, he explains that the French government According to Durov, it is because They were used to create, he says, paradises Among the soldiers of Allah it is known that it is impossible to organize. So when the government a wind of panic runs among them. "F***, we're toast." To give the information to the state, In October 2015. So it's by Telegram, He wants me to join him He has important news to tell me. - There is a brother who has arrived - When did he arrive? I contacted him, I spoke with him. He wants to organize something crazy here, He asks us to be patient. This is serious. Raqqa is So they would have sent a man to I sense a change in Osama. - You will need to make 2 teams: one team We will divide into 2 groups. Do you know what you need to do? - I just have Telegram. - In Telegram, you talk to a minimum. Find a small job, do We're going to need it for the future. All the brothers who have made They didn't do it like that. Those, - Was it the brother who told you that? - We need to meet him in person. - Where is he in Paris, in the suburbs? The man therefore returns directly from Syria. He took Abou Souleymane as his nom de guerre. He is more dangerous than the others He doesn't put his face on the internet. He lives somewhere in the suburbs Its mission seems to be to encourage to commit a s**** action He is not the only one. All the signs that reach us Youssouf, the Daesh gunsmith for example. "Doing something in France is better." &quot;Look at our brothers in Palestine &quot;May Allah facilitate us and through our hands Souleymane, the man from Raqqa, explained to An essential first step Osama suspects that his phone We will open a new The operation is illegal. Osama prefers to change stores - We need to hurry up a little. We're going to activate the phone here. On a website, Osama In case of verification, - Then, I would like to activate my card. - If I don't come back for any reason or There is the map in it, You destroyed it apart. This phone destroy it. Stop running if they chase you. This is what I planned. And Osama is not wary - My father also comes by, he causes me problems. - Yes, thoroughly. - He went to the cops, he said: - He said you were becoming radicalized. - It's a murtad. - It's what ? He's not a Muslim. That means he's a Muslim If Osama is known to it's because his father - He was not a Muslim, I see he has changed I went to the police. To watch over my son, I declared it there. I said, "My son has changed." I listen to the radios every day, there are many fathers I'm worried and my son, I have to I made a statement, they told me: And 3 days later my son, he took At the end of 2014, Osama was only 18 years old. He heard the call of the Islamic State. At the time, he had - What are you waiting for? How dare you Aren't you ashamed? In December 2014, Osama arrived in Turkiye, but he will not be able to cross Turkish police arrest him, hand him over He will be heard by the anti-terrorism department. Osama put his entire file I see that he has nothing &quot;I wish to die as a martyr, The police wrote: "Visibly in he appears to pose a threat." But Osama did not commit any Surveillance is triggered. - We are not outside of Allah. The police felt a So, we asked a radicalization specialist. - He said: We are just He's already dead. So these are There's something that opened a hole, He tries to patch it up as best he can. Some people don't make it, they get drunk, they move on to drug addiction... I mean that radicalization, as one of the outcomes - You kill yourself Whereas if you kill yourself for Allah, - Basically, it consists of jihadism, - The angels will be there, you won, It doesn't take long for Osama to meet They are bugging, the police &quot;As soon as I can have martyrdom, A week later, February 14 He is imprisoned in Fresnes. In prison, Osama meets Islamists. - In Fresnes, he had to - Yeah, he had a brother there, they have him He is an emir of Daesh. He was right next to me. His father is far from imagining this - This is your son. For me, he's still a baby too. I see he's behind lots of guards, I wanted him to stay here, Every time I want to cry. This is your son. When I It hurts. It hurts. Let him stay there. - If you had stayed 6 years, maybe - I would have strengthened myself even more. - I was only with brothers. Osama was detained here in Fresnes. It is in this prison that Here, radical Islamists are gathered, - The majority of radicalized people, are the subject of a grouping and of the rest of the penal population. - In the case that interests us, and, it happens during detention. - What you describe there, negative of detained persons this risk is linked to - What are you doing, to see - We will observe a subject, a person, and we will approach him on in his relationship with the supervisor, in the way he says hello, in the way he evolves in his cell, with the relationships he goes When someone tells you: &quot;What happened at the Bataclan, I don't This must question us. For the most experienced supervisors are not always what we imagine. - You have inmates who, We will see them praying less and less, pornographic photos, will go So of course the observation They're on a submarine. - You always arrive at the end of a to see that there is concealment and that is there radicalization? - So, you use terms that are I think we are able to assess religious impregnation Osama deceived the vigilance of 5 months after his incarceration, - Were you out for good behavior? - No, I went out because Like what, I was deradicalized. The trick brother. He was the judge considered the strictest, French judges in terrorism matters. God made it easy for me. It comes from Allah. Honestly, I swear to you, For me, I was going to take 6 or 7 years. And Osama will also deceive his father. - When he got out of prison, I told him to trim his beard, He gave me a hug. He said: &quot;Now I will I'm going to stay with my family.&quot; But actually, he has other plans. who told anyone who would listen In the Daesh war code, - What is Takia? So that they don't see you, what Cutting the beard, - I don't want any more friends, He often cuddles. All the time, He said: &quot;I'm going to pass That's what told me, After prison, it was good. Being imprisoned does not mean In Osama's Telegram group, is currently in detention. His name is Cedric Vuillemin. He has been incarcerated since 2014 He is the one who runs the to which I subscribed &quot;A book that guides From his cell, he communicates which is in Syria. To the nose and beard of he invites Muslims to fight. He shares methods for He also asks that we "Here is my prison RIB for canteen - I recognize the cell door, it's a little everywhere, in everyone - He is a Daechian detainee. Who looks in good shape, he works out - Of course he must have - Even a smartphone. We know that the detainees - He, in fact, participates which are Daechian groups. - One of the things we noticed - The more he will have a bank account which will be above average, in addition, Then if in addition, like you he pays him at some point There we are, we are at the heart of the matter. To me, you are a father. Yes, but but I also have a word to convey to you. And there you are. Yes, These recruiters are very For Osama, the time has come His priority is the military. - A military base? - Sometimes in military bases, After training, When they eat, It might be good. - In all cases, it is necessary that - Not even armed. If for example, We continue our journey, Afterwards, it could be a newspaper. i TV. - Because they are at war, You have to hurt them. Like they did to Charlie, you know? You have to break their hearts. By surprise, what They are not protected, - After Charlie, - This is not enough. They need to be more so. Let it flow a lot, I want to see thousands Osama will give his news - I want to act here. - Too many complications for - Brother, we agree. - I want to attack them at home. - What's the plan, I don't understand anymore, Is to go to Syria - Here. On Telegram, only one instruction find weapons at all costs. - I know a guy for - Which model ? - I don't know the exact brand anymore, - He works ? - I don't know, I don't have Abou Souleymane, you don't know - Yes, but how much do you have? - EUR300. - You tell me, this is not possible November 13, I am at home &quot;They probably had to pass, go down, probably even inside." &quot;Do you know if in this neighborhood there are to be targeted by an attack? I pronounce if it's an attack, but do you know?" I rush to Telegram. - Do the soldiers &quot;There is not much "2 or 3 individuals, they said." They didn't know anything. - 18 dead, Allah Akbar. - Deactivate your Facebook brothers, from our Facebook who did this. "On my 20th birthday, attack. "This is your gift." 3 days later, [...] At least 120 dead and several The hospitals of Paris are The country placed in a state of emergency after carried out in 6 locations in the capital last night, It's just never I am like all of France, but above all I must - I wake up, I look - 130 dead! All night, brother, I said to myself: &quot;They will And every time Because I was traumatized It sticks in my head, you see. Then I had nothing to defend myself with. If I want to defend myself, I met a big lax person. A big talafi, but worse, he is an apostate. He told me: &quot;The world must I let him speak. &quot;After the Muslims in France, He got me drunk. Osama decided to change location. In the car, I want to talk to him about Abdeslam, the Belgian killer He was closed for drug trafficking. It's moderately Islamic. - You saw, they say that he - They say what they want. - This is the stuff of unbelievers. they bled him, his reputation. When the Kouachi brothers, the same they bled the reputation of the Taliban, they bled the reputation All their information about them, They need to thoroughly discredit them. good things, you see? They especially don't want to show - That's what they say every time. they are indoctrinated. - I am thoroughly indoctrinated. - Radicalized. After November 13, there is a state of emergency. Among the 128 searched, Abou Shahid, the youngest of the group. - You see the intervention, They arrived, they exploded They broke down the door I was taken out of bed, there They put handcuffs on me afterwards like in the movies. Afterwards, they put me and he was crushing me, that son of a c****. They canvassed the neighborhood, there were My mother said, &quot;You're not coming home The noose is tightening around the jihadists. He wants to speed up operations. I arrive early, The others join us. - Today, we are in They closed the borders. who are tracking us down one by one. They come to the brothers at 4 a.m. they lock them in - We're going to have to hurry because, Francois Hollande, he is relentless, a relentlessness like no one can imagine, Our goal is paradise. Osama is worried because The one who worries him the most is Abou - I received a message from Shahid He was lifted at 4 a.m. His mother is sad. His future with whom He's all alone, he must point He is in residence at home. He told me : I tried to motivate him, but... Abou Shahid begins to falter. He gives various reasons for not Osama plays his role as leader. The 2 men enter into conflict on Telegram. - I thought about the possibility of joining - If anyone wants to do something In this group, there is no solo. So we have to be determined. So there you have it, brothers, we will make the projects a reality and we will act. - You have to train first. He'll want to shoot, brother, his gun will Everyone who knocked here, They left in No, but he talks about martyrs, but you have to practice - I'll be clear. SO, or who are ready to abandon any project I invite them to leave the group. My infiltration has lasted since I tell myself that now is the time Ask Osama personal questions. About his past, his cracks. I know his parents are But what's on his mind? - Are these the services that failed you? You're burnt out, but crazy. Everyone knows that you - I wasn't known a year ago. I'm interested in knowing how... Lamb who played PlayStation. Did you listen to rap? - At school, were you lousy? You know what I had like When I was a little older - Have you done any tests? - I was rejected. - Thank God, Allah protected me from them. - Physically, there was - They said you were crazy? - They took me out as an excuse, like what, They failed me, suddenly, For Osama's father, - He called me crying, he was sad. He said Papa: "He refused me the general." I told him it doesn't matter, Afterwards, he looked for what he was. &quot;I'm Muslim? I'm Turkish? &quot;If I am French, So where has he been? Towards the other side. I mean He was pushed there. I noticed the obsession The secret services "He only wants to kill soldiers." These are the first targets - A military base. On his Facebook profile, he makes fun who train against terrorists. Osama went from slick advertisements to to the Hollywood clip of ISIS &quot;Aim correctly at your target Patient like the lion lying in wait for its prey Then shoot the enemy while proclaiming with your gun to the place where he is hiding.&quot; - He wanted to structure something And the army allows you to fit in and allow them to do but within a very fixed framework. Osama feels confident, He reveals to me an episode of - There is a guy, he almost You would have been to the Bataclan if... Maybe 14 years old, I was hanging out with But when I tell you satanic, it was He was the devil. He said He told me: &quot;We're going to At one point he had me he made me an upside down cross, He drew a cross on my chest. It fascinated me. I was stuck in it. He gave me a big book And I was reading it and I was so into it. I did rituals in my room. I said to myself, maybe I do I didn't feel good at the same time. The confusion in which I was a brother. - I met a lot of young people very great depression, of underesteem, of disesteem of themselves, who consider themselves to be There is an extremely depressive dimension, then all of a sudden they encounter meaning, someone who will tell them: You are someone who, You are an elected. You can do something and something but for your group, A teenager is someone who is - That's when I - Is your mother an atheist? I stopped drinking alcohol. It was at that moment that I have been on the internet I actually watched a video... She is marvellous, You should look at it. This is THE video that changed your life. This is the film that rocked I am surprised. This is not a video This film is produced by evangelists conspiracy theorists. &quot;The project is literally That is to say, to completely prevent A recent study showed that the media, Because the media are there, in order to do not ask any critical questions. In order to ensure that the main is to have a good time. And acquire more And Muslims added Even the voice of the commentary is different. 1400 years ago, when the world the Quran was revealed, which While the previous books due to the hands of men the Quran had no Osama was returned by a co-production Since the attacks and the world of the Daesh Joseph, the man in blue that I had distrust me. Via Facebook, "You're toast, man, change your job." What does he know? I answer with a point If he knows I'm a journalist, I send a few messages in Nobody is threatening, I think Joseph was bluffing. A few days later, I received a message the real leader of the group, asks me I have to wait for a call on He comes. Someone must Suddenly a woman in a niqab appears. From hand to hand a handwritten letter. The only true way to This letter is the instructions for And it's amazing. &quot;We can target a place where there is &quot;Very popular evil places There should be 1 or 2 suicide bombers inside. and he takes action.&quot; Then, the brothers who will be outside, and will hide until the we need 1 or 2 armed suicide bombers.&quot; "We shoot to death, my brothers." I'm supposed to burn the letter and I found him in Chateauroux. I intend to avoid I will try to remain vague. Osama is more nervous than usual. - What happened ? - I got the brother's letter. For those who stay here... He saw several plans, He said to type... - Exactly. He has not - There are no details? No, for the nightclub, he just says... - There will be one who gets exposed. then there is one who would be The police arrive, and there are others who are Exactly what he said. We just have... Today, In fact, Osama knew I realize that this letter has The network of soldiers of Allah to apply an instruction without betraying them. Now they think they can It won't be long. - That's a good idea. After that, it's something to think about, it's something to see. - That's good. Brother Souleymane, he found a k****. The soldiers of Allah are A weapon would be in the hands Irmane the newlywed and Sofiane. Osama would like to get his hands on the weapon. - Pick up who? - Where is he ? - We'll just have to come back and see her. - We have to see if she's still there. - If, normally, it is buried. We put it in the exact place, - It works ? - We haven't tried it. I'm going to Orleans. Irmane and Sofiane must so I can get it back - For me, this is the safest place here. I don't see any other places - You don't know if it works? No, I told him: It's here. I make a GPS point for I get the impression he doesn't like it. - There are no bullets? The next day, I go back to the same place. I intend to report but I want to check if it exists. In fact, there is nothing left. In the following days, Everything is speeding up. On Telegram, as if he had weapons. Wouldn't he have told me everything? - Each of us, who agrees Afterwards, you know the rest. I will find out that the police A group that she took very seriously. In the region, on December 23, I have the feeling that they "A military barracks, a police station by a planned attack. An attack thanks to the arrest of 2 Before their arrest, and to buy weapons to carry out the act.&quot; 4 days later, on December 27, it is Osama who is arrested - One day, 5 a.m., I don't know how many police They broke the door. When you wake up, you don't They gave us the &quot;Why are you doing this to me, - If you had information - I swear, I would have reported it. If I think that my son, don't worry, I'll bring it The group was listened to in Some are in prison, others have Abou Souleymane, the man without a face He asks me to go find a I have an appointment at an Islamic school. Here, the messenger in the niqab will go unnoticed. It's the same one that had me &quot;My brother, there are still you and me. If we There is the sister of whom I have you and we tap in 3 places These are the same attacks At the end it asks me to buy a list This man is asking me to die and But I'm not going In the group. Joseph, the man in blue, is more suspicious than ever. He thinks I'm through He wants to search me He sends me one last message: "You're done, man." My infiltration ends there. Youcef, the Daesh gunsmith in Syria, - Where are the brothers? What is happening ? The cell of the soldiers of Allah no longer exists. As for me, after 6 months I saw them as they are. For me they lost that which they exercise I'm not afraid of them anymore. Behind the faces of I now see lost, frustrated people, Like Kevin, who came from the Islamic State offered him And one last ride before And I didn't see any Islam, just young people lost on - Paradise is a source of happiness, Our goal is paradise.