The Killer Klowns are probably the - uhh - Most unique aliens to ever invade Earth. But how many Klowns are there, what are their Let's explain everything you need to know about the Killer Klowns... animated! In no particular order, let's introduce the Klowns themselves, starting with... The massive Jumbo, who sports a purple suit with blue mismatched shapes, And - like all the Klowns- he has cat-like pupils. The equally large Fatso that dons a spotted suit and an orange mohawk, And whose identical twin rocks a green afro. The significantly tinier and appropriately named Shorty, Who boasts a spring-loaded punch. The stripe-suited, red-haired Rudy and his barely seen brother Magori... Who for some reason is on the movie's poster art. The spikey-haired, well, uuuh... Spikey... whose green suit is covered in stars. Slim, who just so happens to be heavy-set, and wears three tiny balloons in his hair. Bibbo, who wears a balloon-shaped neckpiece, rocks a double mohawk, And has a flower-suited twin. Bippo, Bibbo's similarly-suited brother, who himself has a doppelganger Named Crinkles, and a third stripe-suited look-a-like. The grande-sized Chubby, wearing a spiral-patterned Ensemble that features a blue collar, And his brother Hefty, distinguished only by his green collar and cuffs. The orange-suited and rainbow-haired Joe. Talls, clearly a fan of turtle necks, Who has green pegs for ears and two brothers with identical faces. Killbo, who wears a blue suit, and has neon hair with purple stripes through it. The blue and purple-haired Storefront, sporting a rainbow striped suit, And his twin Danny, who dons Killbo's blue suit. The plump, red-headed Mojo, who is only seen operating a giant parade float. Frank, a balding Klown with tiny balloons painted on his face, And his elusive twin who for some reason sports Storefront's rainbow ensemble. Slam, who, uuuh, also sports Storefront's rainbow outfit, And has a fiery tuft of hair with a red mullet. The droopy faced Bash, whose green hair has a yellow stripe running through it. The curly-haired Boco, who has a balding, blonde brother, And an identical twin, who wears a flower suit. The plaid-loving Slumbo with noticeably giant ears. Dunk, who sports a red outfit with white spots, and has three body doubles: One with shaggy red hair, one with Bash's head, and a third with Tall's head. In addition to the body doubles, Dunk has an identical twin who opts for a muted striped ensemble. The last male Klown - who goes unnamed - Has curly pink hair with a monk-like bald patch. Aaaaand two female Klowns named Rosebud and Daisy also appear. They can apparently expand their bosoms... And are more interested in smooching humans than capturing them. Now, The Klowns arrive on Earth armed with various weaponry Including, but not limited to, Ray guns that can confine people in giant balloons, Or cocoon their victims in cotton candy, Which the Klowns then drink from for sustenance. The Klowns also possess many talents, Such as creating balloon animals that come to life. (Barking) And imitating voices. &quot;Debbie, Debbie, it's Mike open up. Debbie, Debbie, Debbie.&quot; They have super-human jumping abilities. And drive an invisible car. (Honk Honk) They can squeeze inside of stacks of pizza boxes, And impossibly-sized Klown cars. Yield an absurd amount of acid pies. &quot;What are you gonna do with those pies, boys?&quot; They have the ability to remove and re-grow their hands, Can rotate their head and shoulders 180 degrees, Wield a lethal paper whistle, And to top it off, they're extremely skilled ventriloquists. &quot;Don't worry Dave, all we wanna do is kill ya...&quot; But that's not all! They're also spotted creating shadow puppets That are capable of capturing humans, Turning said humans into living popcorn, And leaving them to gestate and evolve into springy carnivorous Klown offspring, Which presumably turn into full sized Klowns. And of course, The Klowns utilize a bazooka to shoot the living popcorn at other victims. While they're largely infallible to gunshots, When their nose takes a hit, the Klowns explode into confetti. They also cower down to the massive twenty-foot Klownzilla, who - After reaching for a human snack - has his nose popped, Exploding him and the Klowns' spacecraft into pieces, Bringing an end to their Klown-y terror Until they make The Return of the Killer Klowns From Outer Space in 3-D that is... Thanks for liking, watching and commenting! Betcha had no clue this was gonna be the next animation... If you haven't seen Killer Klowns From Outer Space And like cheesy 80s Sci-Fi Horror, check it out to stream, rent or buy. And feel free to browse the other videos on the channel and subscribe for more!