Smartphones, cars, toasters and fighter jets. Can you guess what all of these have in common? They're all powered by advanced semiconductors, chips for short. They're often regarded as the brains powering Microchips or semiconductors are incredibly They are in things from refrigerators all the way daily basis, the entire technology industry. Semiconductors is the fundament of all of that. There's no tech industry without semiconductors. A $574 billion industry on pace to cross the decade. Now caught in the crosshairs between two world, US trade restrictions continuing to make companies such as Nvidia, Nvidia's CFO, warning drop significantly in the fourth quarter. The Biden administration is trying to cap China's But that said, are these curbs too little, too They're getting increasingly sophisticated and required to power and underpin some of the applications that we know about going forward. So just how did semiconductors with transistors size of a single DNA strand, become the the United States and China? And what are the potential implications for You want to understand the chip war over the last move by very heavily subsidizing its industry and Semiconductors became a central area of during the last decade, when China's desire to competition from one between companies to a economies. 2014 was a key inflection point when government released a number of new policy Targeting semiconductors is what they call a core has given a number of speeches starting in that efforts to become self-sufficient in technology. China's semiconductor industry is quite behind Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. It relies heavily on foreign technology to boost semiconductor industry as well. And so China looks at the chip industry and sees import high end chips for its PCs, for its from countries that are competitors. Since then, China has set up a series of vast private equity firms, measuring in the hundreds boosting the Chinese chip industry. That's been the dominant strategy of China over Keep spending huge sums each year trying to build capacity and the level of technology, and that's today. But things escalated, really, in 2022, restrictions aimed at cutting China off from around semiconductors to do with artificial For example, the export restrictions announced in President Biden signed the Chips and Science Act semiconductor investment and development. The Biden administration has since further In October, the US Commerce Department unveiled made chips to China in an effort to further AI. So continued sanctions on the export of China has certainly held back the development of industry. China's response, meanwhile, has been One of the biggest things that happened was in maker micron poses a major security risk to supply chain. They've done things like slow walk M&amp;A. So, for example, Intel was trying to buy Tower give approval in July 2023 as well. China put some export restrictions on two metals Those are metals that are required in some chips as well. There is not a whole lot that There's these things at the margin around some of But in general, China doesn't have leadership in they can do. From powering our cell phones, cars and laptops to without semiconductors. But there is one area of use in particular that intelligence. Ai is seen as a critical technology future, and it's aiming to impact all sorts of board. And the US really is looking to restrict power these future artificial intelligence Clearly, there are a lot of potential thing that we want to try to control access to. The other part here, the US has said, is that The US wants to make sure that some of this military applications. For the US, this matters because its military other on trying to maintain a technological edge. And in particular, as China builds more ships, region, the US technological edge is more Ultimately, China has a civil military fusion private and the public sector, which is buying our sophisticated chips, which are them into military equipment to advance their If you buy the thesis that there's a strong capabilities that rely on semiconductors, understand why the US government was not excited in which US firms were actively supporting the capabilities. In terms of where the financial impact on US impact has actually been on the equipment For example, its manufacturers in China need Its tech companies need design tools to design dollars of revenue impact that companies like of guys did see because of this. Meanwhile, Nvidia, makers of the world's highest work around US export restrictions last year by the performance threshold. These export controls have very specific like computing power and memory bandwidth and thresholds, the part is not legal. Nvidia was able to design new parts that came in thresholds, and so they were legal to sell. In response, the new rules announced by the Biden aimed in part at closing that loophole. They basically control virtually every data that Nvidia is selling into the China market folks like AMD and Intel. Basically limits everything that Nvidia is Following the announcement, Nvidia said while it quote, near-term meaningful impact on its development in a timely manner and require the The China restrictions for Nvidia are going to constraints. There's plenty of customers who want Look, I think you have to consider China as Chip giant Nvidia may be forced to cancel China next year because of new US export The market over the long term will likely be stuff into China. Some US chip makers have warned China's path to become a self-sufficient chip market dominated by Chinese made chips. There's no doubt that this trade war and tech war ambitions to boost its domestic semiconductor efforts in that area. The real challenge that US companies face is at find a way to design them out and replace them Perhaps a preview of that came in late August released the mate 60 Pro, a new smartphone largest chip maker, Semiconductor Manufacturing SMIC, for short. So some people have looked at that, that Huawei smartphones, and they're holding that up as an controls have failed. Both Huawei and SMIC are on Entity List, which restricts them from buying This has really raised some eyebrows, I think, in possible. And I think the other bigger question this on a large scale? While Huawei's latest 5G phones are equipped with iPhone 15 Pros, by comparison, are powered by a from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, the world. A reduction in nanometer size can chips. This has led some to believe that US pace of China's technological development. I think it's evidence that they're succeeding You would never do that if you didn't have to, global scale. Huawei's breakthrough chip shows is China, but it won't permanently stop China from And that's okay, because ultimately, artificial Things are not going back to the way they used to I think it's clear that both the US and China are supremacy with some of these key technologies, that. Leadership in Washington and Beijing both consequential breakthrough paradigm shifting 80 years, and China views AI as central to use their term US military capabilities. Because AI is seen as such a groundbreaking different industries across the board. I think this is an area where you may see further export restrictions come in. So companies have come to terms, I think, with themselves in a very complex balancing act where legally allowed to serve. But also are cognizant situation could well get even more complex. We cannot allow China to have our most use in the Chinese military. That's where we've drawn the cut line. I do think this is going to be a long term And when you listen to policymakers in Beijing or conceptualize the competition and their Above all, when we look at this space, we need to Communist Party dominates critical technologies, very dark and dystopian world, and it's one that Of course, we want American companies to lead in first. China, meanwhile, will likely continue industry while simultaneously boosting the There could be some impact going forward if the continues to ramp up between China and the US, becomes quite a closed market to a number of It basically means that in areas of advanced significant spillover effects on the development language models, which have potent military bifurcation in into a Chinese led technology world. And so in an industry where the technology rapidly, the key question is who can run fastest For now, as the tech war between the US and China middle will have to navigate uncharted territory Governments have shown a willingness and an business models when they conflict with the So while I agree we have a lead in this space, and it's something we need to actually increase. We don't have the luxury of pausing or stopping. We are ahead of them. We need to stay ahead of them, and we need to advance their military. It forces businesses to deal with a new reality forefront, and they have to make decisions based At the end of the day, if China's military gets want it, that's bad for every American company.