Money-losing goods Who told you to blind yourself by trying to save others? To cure your eye disease, your parents Spent all my savings Now I don't even have the money to marry a wife. It was grandma who wanted to thank me for saving him. He has promised to pay for all my medical expenses. It was my mother who took the money but didn't pay the hospital bills. All the money in the family has been spent on supporting you. How can there be money in your eyes? Fortunately, Zhou Quezi is willing to pay 300,000 yuan for you Otherwise, you will kill me sooner or later. Wow, he's almost 50. You, a blind man, don't marry a lame man. Who do you want to marry then? It's good that someone wants you. Mother I beg you Don't let me marry him. Wait until my eyes are healed I will definitely fight for you I asked the doctor. Your eyes can't be cured. I can only be blind in this life No no I can give you 300,000 yuan as a gift. I don't care if he's blind. Can you give me a big fat boy? Oh, you two are so good. You know I didn't lie. you Hahaha, let's go. Let's go Help Ahhhhhhhhhhhh Who are you? You guys wait That child's eyes went blind because he saved me. We must be responsible You must find him I like his good looks. Good character is just right for you If you could marry him That's really the best of both worlds. Grandma, it was such a coincidence that he saved you. I'm afraid it's not that simple I'm not a bad person Come slowly Thank you I should thank you. Thank you for saving me grandmother Your eyes haven't healed yet. I'll take you back to the hospital. No, I've already spent too much money on you. My eyes can't be cured. Who says it can't be cured? Don't worry, it can be cured. Uncle Thank you. Thank you so much. Uncle, I look old. Forgot he was blind. You take a rest first I'll get the doctor to check you out. Hello Little girl Where did she seduce a wild man? You beat your husband? Get back to me now Otherwise, you won't be able to go home. Mom, I will not marry Zhu Quezi Why This little girl How dare you hang up on me? This isn't my own. Just can't tame an ungrateful person Mommy shallow This thing won't really come back, right? I raised him myself. I can't cure him. Just wait for him to come back crying and kneel down to beg me Miss Mo's eyes can be restored through surgery. But the surgery is extremely expensive. At least 8 digits Yeah, so expensive But we don't have that much money Let's just forget it. I have I sell my house and car Plus my little savings, That's even worse. Uncle, forget it. I'm not cured. how My grandma's life is not worth these 8 figures That's not what I meant. What I mean is Okay, that's it. But Yu Sheng Let's go out and count Qianqian, your mother went to school and cancelled your enrollment But I asked for you. If you have other immediate family members You can also ask her to come to the school to help you keep your student status. How could my mother do this? First let me marry an old man Now you're making fun of my senior Am I his biological child? Shen Qian, don't worry Let's think of a solution. By the way, my husband is also a direct relative. Otherwise you find someone to fake marriage Let him do the reservation procedure for you Then I'll think about it again Mr. Fu is the one who risked his life to save the old lady Oh, I didn't expect she was so beautiful. No wonder the old lady likes it She is really kind-hearted. Uncle It's me you You sit Can you give me a certificate? The wildness is really big The first move is Mrs. Fu's position. Um It is like this My mother helped me to drop out of school I need a next of kin now Go to school and help me Procedures for retaining student status Fake marriage Um I don't play fake If you want to end it, you have to end it But uncle, I'm blind now. It will drag you down It's okay. I am not only old And she's ugly Otherwise Why am I still single at this age? An old and ugly uncle Just right for you, a blind man How ugly Big square face, small eyes, flat nose, thick lips The face is full of pimples and bumps, like the surface of the moon That's a little ugly. Still tied? The purpose of getting the certificate is to give my grandma peace of mind It doesn't mean I admit that this little girl is my wife If she dares to be restless I have 100 ways to make her leave the house Uncle is really nice. Not only selling houses and cars I spent all my savings to treat my eyes. Still willing to fake marriage to help me keep Senior sister, I must repay the uncle in the future The surgery date has been scheduled. You go back to school first I'll keep the senior for you. Thank you uncle Wait until my eyes get better. We're going to get a divorce. You have the final say on marriage I have the final say on divorce After all, I am old and ugly. It's not easy to get a wife. What if you lost it? Afraid that I would tell you about the truth? Waiting for you to mess around No No, I just think you are very good at flirting. Uncle, although you are a little older Looks a bit ugly But you are a good person I really want to marry you And I will definitely take care of you until the end of your life Thank you so much You are Mu Qianqian I am asking you who It doesn't matter who I am. I just want to take a look What kind of woman is she? Able to seduce other people's fiances Sir, Miss, have you misunderstood? I really hope I misunderstood. Ms. Mu Girls from ordinary families It's better to be down-to-earth. Don't always think about reaching the sky in one step Be careful not to fall to pieces Miss Lu, why are you here? I'm just worried that someone with ulterior motives will take advantage of you. There are too many people in this society who are obsessed with money. As your friend I don't want you to get hurt Uncle What's wrong Uncle, you have a fiancee. I don't have a fiancee. You are my only wife By the way, uncle, we have all obtained the certificate I don't know your name yet Fu Sihan Fu Sihan which one Which one is Si and which one is Han? Pay the payment Department of Justice Cold The doctor said I'm going to be preparing for surgery these days. You should take a good rest these two days. Uncle, why are you so nice to me? Return the favor Why does he look so much like his mother? Is he the mother? The Governor's Daughter Ms. Lu The woman you asked us to investigate is called Mu Qianqian The relevant information has been sent to your email She has a butterfly birthmark He is her mother's lost daughter, Lu Yunsheng No I am the only daughter of the Lu family. I just came out after seeing the doctor. The doctor said my hand is very serious. Broken bones It costs a lot of money The money is your daughter's. She was the one who ordered me to be beaten like this You must pay this money. Are you sick? Do you have a car? Do you know the current money Of course I know He is the one I spent 30 I spent more than 300,000 yuan to marry my wife. He actually found a strange man outside behind my back I'm looking for him. I know where he is Know Thank you uncle I need to go to the bathroom Your eyes are not good Tell me where you want to go But I can't bother you all the time You don't want to bother me Who do you want to trouble? I am your husband But we are fake Too much trouble Uncle, are you teasing me? You must hire a good expert I know. It's in front. Hurry up, Sihan Shallow Haha Grandma Shallow Grandma, why are you here? You can't drink it cold. I'll change your cup. Hot thanks Uncle blames grandma That's why you can't see If you feel uncomfortable You must tell grandma Grandma, I'm fine. How about you? Are you recovering? I heard you guys got married. Grandma is very happy Finally someone wants my grandson. This person Cold temperament Bad temper too I didn't bully you. grandmother Although the uncle looks a bit ugly A bit older But he's very nice And he's very good to me A bit older Looks a bit ugly He is more than just a little older Looks a bit ugly He is really old and ugly. I don't know how many people laughed at me. If it weren't for you No one wants him in this life. Right, grandson? You don't have to care too much about what others think. Good looks are not important Inner sincerity and kindness are the most important things in life. You are right To deceive the little girl Really no shame Grandma Qianqian is going to have surgery tomorrow Let her rest early I'll take you back. Don't be afraid of surgery tomorrow. I asked the doctor. Very safe Got it, grandma You've just recovered. You should rest early. good Sihan, you are a marriage fraud Grandma, how can this be called marriage fraud? Not telling the truth is marriage fraud Okay, grandma. Just think of it as something fun for us young people to play with, okay? Play Play Play Be careful not to play with your wife You're crying Hey grandma, slow down. Ms. Mu's eyes are in good condition. It won't affect tomorrow's surgery. But be careful not to cry too often Take rest Well, thank you, doctor. I cried secretly again I'm having surgery tomorrow. After the surgery, I can no longer cry. Not good for eyes Also, don't cry easily in the future Crying won't solve any problems No matter what happens, you must learn to fight back. Learn to protect yourself Got it, uncle I'm going to talk to the doctor, idiot. Otherwise, you take a rest first. Um who Uncle? Did I hear wrong? Take medicine Uncle Uncle What's wrong with you Nothing Have a good rest Why does it feel like the uncle is angry? Uncle, you are back again Who is the uncle? I am your mother mom How come you are here? Nizi Mom finally found you. Do you know you haven't been back for so long? How worried is mom about you? Don't you blame me for sneaking out to continue my eye treatment? Someone paid for your treatment. How could mom blame you? Mom also hopes your eyes get better soon. I'm your real mother. Can it harm you? Then you won't force me to get married anymore. Of course not. This is the soup I made specially Drinking is good for the eyes I don't want to drink This is the most expensive and most valuable material I have ever bought. I packed it for a whole day Don't waste Mom, the doctor said I have to have surgery tomorrow morning. Eating tonight Not right for money Mom, she has never been so nice to me. What are you doing Give me give me Give me your phone It's really a toast, don't accept it, and drink the wine for punishment Do you know that you beat Zhou Cripple? Almost killed our whole family. Now you still want to contact outsiders to harm your relatives mom This is the betrothal gift of 20,000 yuan Other 250,000 Let me marry him and I'll give it to you Why Wasn't it 300,000 yuan? I find you really funny. I look ugly, so I don't need money. You guys have to pay for this. This money-losing product caused me to lose 30,000 yuan Mom, I'm married. What she She is married Oh, it must be fake. This girl is very well behaved. I won't do this kind of thing. hey-hey Mom, hey, mom Baby, you are mine now. Don't come over here. Don't come over here. You are breaking the law. Don't cry easily in the future Crying won't solve any problems No matter what happens, you must learn to fight back. Don't come over here. Come here, don't come here It's me Uncle Don't be afraid It's okay, don't be afraid He said I'm scared though But I didn't cry I listened to you. Am I brave? You are great Very brave He said my eye seemed to be hit and it hurts Qianqian Uncle My eyes hurt Will it affect the surgery? No The doctor said this injury is okay. If my eyes can't be cured If I were blind all my life No, your eyes can be cured, believe me. Uncle I'll remove the gauze in a moment. What if I still can't see? I'm so nervous Don't be nervous. The doctor said the operation went well. That's right I won't be hospitalized if I rest. Hospitalization is expensive. I'd better go back to school. Why do you want to live back in school? You know My mother doesn't like me. Only like brother They also want to use me in exchange for the bride price I don't want to go home You forgot we were married. We must live together. Otherwise, will you doubt that we are fake? Uncle, you are so kind to me. Not only did he spend money to treat my eyes Helped me keep learning Now let me live in your house. Don't worry, whether you divorce me or not in the future I will take care of you until the end of your life This is my wife. Not a daughter Then you can also treat your wife as your daughter Wishful thinking The nurse is here Uncle Guang, I seem to see the light I'll be able to see you clearly soon I seem to see the light I'll be able to see you clearly soon Ms. Gu, please close your eyes first. Slowly adapt to the light Won't my eyesight be restored immediately? Why can't I see it? Vision cannot be restored immediately It will take some time Then your eyesight will slowly return. Uncle, I can't see you clearly right away. One day you will see I can see the light now I believe I will see the uncle soon. Certain By the way, nurse What to pay attention to during eye recovery Take breaks Pay attention to nutrition Avoiding re-injury Avoid tears Thank you nurse Remember it Uncle, I seem to be able to see some blurry light and shadow Come and sit down slowly This house seems quite big. The monthly rent is quite a lot of money. Not expensive, 2,000 per month This is for you This is a new phone It's already set up inside Just give the order directly Thank you uncle My mobile number Already set as your emergency contact Call me if you have anything important. Don't worry if there's nothing to do. Try to play less Don't worry, I won't disturb you. Miss Mo, I'm Aunt Liu I live downstairs What do you want? Call me anytime Mr. Fu A voice calling system is installed in every room. Hello Aunt Liu Is her room ready? old lady I called you before and asked you to live with Miss Mu. Live in the same room How can you sleep in separate rooms when you get married? Of course together Grandma has poor eyesight People with poor eyesight should sleep in a separate room This is the only way to take good care of Qianqian Qianqian just finished the surgery Don't go off the track Grandma Grandma I can take care of myself now. If I can't even take care of myself Then how can I go to class? What? Why are you going to class right after your eyes are clear? Yes, I missed too many classes because of illness. If you don't go again I'm afraid I'll fail the exam. grandmother If he wants to go, let him go. Oh, forget it. You young people are so cool. It's up to you. Be careful with the steps Mr. Fu will introduce you This is Wang Yong and Liu Yi's husband I'm going to work From now on, please ask him to take you to and from school every day. Sorry for bothering you, Uncle Wang Don't call others uncle casually Call him Wang Bo He likes people calling him that. Calling you uncle is so old. I really don't like it at all Mr. Fu Then I'll go see my wife off. Wait a moment He is still in school It's not appropriate to call her madam I was just in a fake marriage with him Then I'll call him Miss Meng Um Today's young people What weird hobbies? I'm old, I don't understand. Miss Mu, can you go in by yourself? Yes, my classmate has come to pick me up. Thank you, Wang Bo Miss Mu, I will pick you up every day It's like your assistant. You can call me Assistant Wang from now on. Okay, thank you, Assistant Wang. I have recorded all of Qianqian's previous classes You can listen slowly when you go back. If you have any questions, you can ask me at any time Thank you Yanran I have been competing abroad during this period. I just found out you had a car accident when I came back yesterday Let me take care of you from now on Pick you up from school I'll accompany you wherever you want to go Be the account in your hand No need, my home is very close to here. Oh no, something happened. What happened? This is Who was hurt by Qianqian being kept by an old man? Too much is too much This Mu Qianqian is really disgusting Relying on her good looks, she goes to accompany old men I heard that when I first entered school, I was still poor. In the blink of an eye, I got on a luxury car That's amazing I don't have you, don't spread rumors Your Aza's things Everyone already knows No matter how you defend yourself Can't deny it You are a woman who relies on her body to get ahead Yunxiang, you are the daughter of the Lu family How dare this Mu Qianqian offend you? I promise to ruin his reputation in a week. Get out of school It's not enough to just drop out of school. I want him to go back to the country. Never appear in the hermitage again The students are in class. Teacher, I want to report At present, he goes to school in a luxury car every day But they still have to compete with us for the quota of poor students I don't Mu Qianqian, your family is poor. But you've helped the old man now. You can easily earn the tuition fee in one night. Why do you still want to compete with us poor people? Mu Qianqian If you still have some face I voluntarily dropped out of school So as not to affect everyone There is no evidence How can you slander an innocent person? Know about the yellow rumor How much harm does this do to a girl? Where did I make up a dirty rumor? His little shit Isn't it already known to everyone? Quiet Quiet Are what Mr. Mu and the others said true? teacher My family situation was not good before So I applied for a place But I made money from working part-time. I paid the tuition myself. I have withdrawn my application. As for the old man and the car mentioned by the classmates I asked someone to help me. Please stop spreading malicious rumors. Find someone to help I think she is being kept by an old and ugly man. Otherwise, why would they be willing to withdraw? School is a place for learning It should be holy and clean Not those dirty women. A place to hang men Please ask the school to punish severely Expel the tomb Expel the tomb Still a cool place for students Fire him, fire him, fire him, fire him, fire him He fired him, he fired him Fire him Fire him, fire him, fire him, fire him He didn't lend money. I just had a car accident some time ago Eyes hurt It has not recovered yet. So I asked for help. Ms. Mu In the future, when my husband picks you up, Drive slowly These videos are my daily life. It can be proved that I asked Aunt Liu and his wife downstairs to They both take care of me There is no so-called support from classmates. Okay, the video can prove Mu's innocence. I hope you guys stop spreading rumors. I also hope that the students who slandered Mu Qianqian will apologize immediately Otherwise, the school will deal with it seriously. We misunderstood you. I'm sorry, classmate Mumu I'm sorry, Mr. Mu. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Then send me a message when you get home. The Girl How come you look exactly like my mom when she was young? Is she my sister picking up the car? Pick up the car Brother Danger ah I'm sorry. Did you just see that girl on the side of the road? No one Bro, you're wrong. No one Did I see it wrong? Thank you uncle for giving me the phone I originally wanted to record it. I'll watch it after my eyes get better. I didn't expect it would help me so much this time. They slander you for being kept by a rich man. You're not angry Don't be angry, uncle is not a rich man Besides, fake is fake. But I feel a little sorry for Assistant Wang this time. That's hard to say. I'm really rich If the uncle is rich I already live in a big villa or manor. Do I still need to rent a house? But it doesn't matter Wait until my eyes are healed I bought a big house for my uncle How did the uncle reply? Does he like me? Uncle is so calm Forehead kiss It can also be a kiss between relatives I didn't expect this blind man to be so smart. Just let him prove his innocence and escape. Mu Qianqian found a couple to take care of him. It seems that Fu didn't care about him after he covered his eyes. If that's the case That's easy. Classmate Qianqian When I first saw you I love you so much that I can't help myself If you could be my girlfriend I promise to love you Make you the happiest woman in the world Wow, so happy Take him, take him, take him, take him, take him Classmate Sha, I think we might not be a good match. Sorry You don't want the money now. Shameless I'll always like you even if I kill you or not It's your pleasure. What do you think you are? You're the kind of guy that needs to be caught in large numbers Qianqian has already said it's inappropriate. Why do you still say that? Old man, you can do it. Why can't I Do you think I can't give you money? Don't worry, as long as you take good care of me I will never lose your benefits in the future I have already clarified the matter last time. If you keep talking nonsense Then I'll call the police. snort Call the police He wants to call the police Express who Ah, rich businessman Long time no see Rich businessmen, stop trying to get close to me. If I see you harassing Qianqian again I will never let you go roll Are you okay? I'm fine, thank you. I have urgent business. Call me if you need anything Um Fu Qianxing looks sunny and handsome Good for you If you two were together, you would be a perfect match. Yanran, don't say that next time. Qianxing and I are just good friends No other ideas You forgot I'm married. Wasn't your marriage to that uncle fake? Even though it was a fake marriage But he helped me a lot. If he wants I can really marry him. Money, you are not tempted, are you? I don't know what happened. Actually, uncles are not my type But I don't know why As long as I'm with him I'll be happy Let's go If this is like Maybe I like uncle. But the uncle seems to have only tolerance and responsibility towards me Wait a minute, uncle will be back. I asked the uncle if he liked me first. Or should I just tell him I like him? Who did you just say you like? Like Yanran He was my first good friend at school. Uncle Um You've been drinking Well, why haven't you slept yet? You lie here I'll get you a glass of water. Need not If you drink too much, just lie down. Listen, I'll go get some water. Uncle The water is coming Uncle Fell asleep Come up and drink some water Drink some water Uncle, what are you doing? Let me go. Uncle, please don't do this. I'm scared. today First Kiss My first kiss is gone. Mu Qianqian Calm down. The uncle must have drunk too much. It must be like this Good morning, Mr. Fu Why Mr. Fu, why is your mouth broken? Are you getting angry? These two days The weather is relatively dry I'll make some herbal tea for us this afternoon. I'm done eating etc. I haven't had the oat milk yet. Still angry about what happened last night I drank too much last night Sorry, I thought it was three dreams. What do you think? Do you think I'm someone else? Is there anyone you like, uncle? After all, such an intimate thing Only people who like it would do that. Little blind man Stay away from drunk men in the future Just take care of yourself I am a little blind If you dislike my blindness Then you should find a wife who is not blind. Who dislikes you for being blind? This temper is I'm getting bigger and bigger. Who's going to beat me? This question is Who else but you? Qianqian, what's wrong with you? I have a friend He asked me If a man kissed her when he was drunk But after waking up, I told him It's just a misunderstanding What does this mean? It means that the other person is either a gentleman Feel guilty Or they just don't want to be responsible. Someone in my heart Uncle, is it the former or the latter? Although the uncle always says he is old and ugly But it's not difficult for him to get a girlfriend But I have been single all these years. It must be because I have someone I like. Not crying will affect eye recovery Mr. Fu Miss Lu Yunxiang from the Lu family was also at the scene of the car accident that day. But the surveillance cameras on his side are broken. This is stop This was captured by a dashcam on a roadside car. Find out if this matter has anything to do with him. By the way, tell Lu Yunbai about this matter Hello, Ms. Mu Trends in recent years And all the surveillance videos are in there. Investigation Proof Miss Mo just happened to pass by that day. Only then can I save the old lady. Cancel the afternoon meeting Arrange a car to go to school Such an important meeting this afternoon Mr. Fu actually turned down the invitation for Miss Unveiling. It seems that the old lady will soon be able to hold her grandson as she wishes. Let's go together Cloud The day Mrs. Fu had a car accident Why are you on the scene? Tell us honestly Is Mrs. Fu's car accident related to you? Pingxiang, what's going on? I am not I don't have a brother You know I like Fu Sihan I want to be with him That day I saw Mrs. Fu on the street I want to go up and say hello to him But suddenly a car hit us. I was scared too. I was really scared. mom You believe me View photos and videos You were so scared. Obviously, I didn't expect this to happen. Mother Believe in you I really blame myself. If I could have saved my father and mother I can help him. I didn't expect this to happen. Actually, I have my own little thoughts. I thought if I could save my parents that day Maybe Fu Sihan will agree to be with me Brother, I want to be with Fu Sihan Except I like I also want to help my family If the Lu family could marry into their family The Fu family is not an ordinary wealthy family It's even more impossible for you and Fu Sihan Don't mess with your mind anymore. If you provoke him Even I can't save you I see Bro, I know I was wrong. You go back and rest first. I will explain it to him. Um I had someone sabotage the surveillance camera that day. Why did someone still take the photo? I don't know if you took a picture of that woman. Yunxiang, this child Although he is sometimes a bit extreme But he's not a bad person. I don't think he will harm his parents. It's better this way Cloud White I know you've always been thinking about Yunsheng The reason why I adopted Yunxia was to pray for Yunsheng. I hope he's still alive. Even if I can't go home mom I will definitely bring my sister home So many years I'm not nice to you. Why are you still thinking about looking for Lu Yunsheng? Snowfield is so important snort I won't let you find it. Hey bro The girl I like She doesn't like me How do I chase? You called me just to tell me this. That grandma said that brother You're lying by hiding your identity. No, I chased a wife home. I don't want to learn from you. Can I ask how you pursued your sister-in-law? I never chased you. Then can't my sister-in-law chase you? He fell in love with me at first sight. I fell in love with him at second sight and he proposed to me at third sight. I think he is too sincere. I really like me That's why I agreed to marry her. You are my big brother indeed. Brother, you are so awesome. Give me some advice too. If you use the energy you have to bother me What kind of woman can't you get? Then I Why Big brother wants me to keep pestering him Since ancient times, virtuous women have been afraid of wolves Got it. I got it. Why Sister Jing Sister, let's go hiking this weekend. I heard that fresh air is good for the eyes. I don't have time on weekends I'm going to the hospital for a checkup. Then I'll go with you. No need, someone will go with me Then let's go have dinner together tonight. Fu Qianxing, what happened to you today? I I I like you Nothing, I just want to meet you and Yanran on the weekend If you don't have time, forget it. Next time then Why Brother, what you said The method doesn't seem to work. I feel a little annoyed Uncle, you are here to pick me up today. How do you know it's me? Although I can't see clearly But I have a good nose. The uncle has a nice scent. I knew it was you as soon as I smelled it This is still a dog's nose Did you come to pick me up on purpose? Not on the way What's this cake When I was young, I envied a classmate of mine. Every time his parents came to pick him up from school I'll buy him a box of cakes. I didn't expect that my uncle would buy it for me. Why do you bring up your classmate's parents? You really treat yourself as my daughter. I don't have a daughter that old. Cake sent by customer Lost and wasted Take it if you like it. Please drop out of school now. I want him out of the room. This is a deposit of 100,000 I'll give you another 1 million after the deal is done. Then give me 1 million now. Because I had already made him drop out of school. But he is still studying in school. How is it possible? He's a stinky girl Born to be a jerk What are you studying? Since I was born to be a cheap person Then he should stay where he is supposed to be. Don't dream about other people's things Oh, don't worry. I'll definitely take him home Marry to the countryside Qianqian, your eyes have been injured recently. Still insist on coming to class Keep up with the progress My grades are still in the top 50 in my grade. You're unyielding. The spirit of not giving up is worth learning for all students The school recommends you to give a speech as a representative of the freshmen. What do you think? I Can I Qianqian, your brother is sick. Need your care You should drop out of school and come home with me to take care of your brother. Who are you? Why do you start fighting right away? Who am I? I am his mother. This girl ran away from home with a man I'm taking her home now. mom I didn't run away from home with a man You thought I was blind and wanted to sell me out. In exchange for the gift money Qianqian, why don't you go home? You actually framed your own mother. You were blind at first. I'm looking for a man to marry. The result is regret Followed the dubious man Your brother suffered an unforeseen disaster. Severely injured You have to go back and take care of your brother. Mom, how can you lie with your eyes open? I won't go. Oh my god What sin have I committed? I actually gave birth to a daughter like you. How dare you hit your own child? mom I worked so hard to raise you. How can you treat me like this? teacher You have to make the decision for me He needs to drop out of school immediately. this No matter what decision you make The teachers will support you. Thank you teacher Mom, I won't go back with you. I won't drop out of school If you mess around again I called the police. Call the police, you dare to call the police You are my own child. Even if you are Mu Qianqian's biological mother You sold her for a gift. It is illegal This is called trafficking in women. You concealed the true pain in her eyes Deliberately not treating Mu Qianqian's eyes This is called intentional injury. You use unfair means Defrauded my grandmother of the medical expenses she had to pay This is called malicious fraud. I don't have you, don't wrong me Now you have two choices Either get out of here or stop harassing your current crush. Or I'll call the police now. These three crimes are punished together It takes 20 years to get out. Can't call the police Can't go to jail Teacher, please call the security guard. This is the hospital where you are currently meeting the person you are going to marry. Is this the money you are going to pay now? It is what you voluntarily gave. It has nothing to do with me Uncle Thank you I am ready to cry again for such a small thing Because I'm sad He's my mother. How could he do this to me? Sad and then be a blind person for the rest of your life I know crying is bad for your eyes. But I can't help it He said Why are you so cruel to me? I am fierce Um Very fierce No wonder you can't get a wife. Who said I can't get a wife? Aren't you my wife? If you hurt me again I won't be your wife anymore. Not my wife Whose wife do you want to be? It's not yours anyway. I said before that you decide on marriage. Divorce, listen to me. Do you believe it? I will let you be my wife right now Uncle you You teased me Why can't I chat with my wife? Mr. Fu, Mr. Lu is looking for you The old woman from the Mu family ran away alone I guess it failed. It's really useless. Hey, Sister Yunxiang I saw your brother. What Who did you say you saw? No, we can't let them meet. elder brother Yu Xiangge Why did you suddenly come to school today? Come find someone Hey Who are you meeting at school? The teacher? yes Fu Shang Why is Fu Sihan here? I came to see the tomb. After all, she rescued Mrs. Fu from the tomb. Fu Sihan is responsible Pay attention occasionally But that's all About Yunxiang Appearing at the scene of Mrs. Fu's car accident I want to explain it to you face to face Yunxiang happened to be there today. Just tell him. Mr. Fu Mrs. Fu's car accident has nothing to do with me I was at the scene I was also shocked when I saw the car coming. I will definitely investigate this matter. Dare to hurt our Fu family I will never let go Mr. Lu, I don't want to hear any more alternative In the name of my fiancee Otherwise, there is no need to discuss the business between the two parties. Did you hear what he just said? I see Brother, I will never provoke Master Fu again. It's all because of the current appearance Ruined my plan Everything is going in a bad direction. This woman must not stay. Why hasn't mom taken Mu Qianqian to Catch that damn girl back This damn girl's wings are hard Not only did he not listen to me Still want to sue me I don't know who is backing her up. It's really useless This little thing can't be done well Don't think that the 100,000 yuan deposit is yours. I thought you could just fool me. Of course not. I just didn't know this little girl had changed so much. It's like a different person It caught me off guard. Miss, please wait a few more days. I'm trying to figure it out I don't care what means you use Make him disappear in a closed room within a month Otherwise I'll let you And your son disappeared from the prison forever mom Otherwise, we can just call the police. Anyway, his household registration is in our house. It's only natural to come back and honor your parents. Can't call the police Why can't you call the police? If you call the police What if the police knew what happened back then? What happened back then? I can't call the police anyway. oops That little girl is not a thoughtful person Let's say something nice to her. Get her back As long as she comes back I don't believe she can't be cured. Okay, slow down. What do you want to say? Uncle, when are you going to divorce me? When did I say I wanted to divorce you? You saw what my mother did today. Girls from a family like mine Marrying me would be a burden It will drag you down It's okay. I'll take care of it. Uncle Why don't you understand? My mom She is unreasonable Greedy and selfish This matter is not so easy to handle Wu Jianqiang People cannot choose their birth But you can choose the path you want to take in life. You shouldn't be discouraged now. It should become stronger Let's protect our home together Qianqian, your brother and I came to see you. I see you've been studying hard lately. I brought you boiled eggs. Eat when you are hungry Nourish your body mom You made chicken soup for me last time Just send me to someone else's house. What do you want to do this time? Oh, Qianqian It was my fault last time. Mom also knows she's wrong. Mom, I won't do this again next time. We are here mainly to bring you some food. Please forgive me. Go back with mom Mom will love you well. I still have classes I'm not going back I didn't ask you to go back now. You have to be free Just go home and see mom Then let's talk about it when I'm free. Qianqian, your mother won't let this go. I was asking for your address yesterday. Say you are unfilial I'm going to call the police to arrest you. If he calls the police I told the police that he sold his daughter for a dowry. Let the police decide for me But you are his daughter after all. let's go Pooh Pretending in front of me Take more classes Read more books They're all money-losing stuff. This damn girl seems to be stubborn. This goes on When will I get the money I saved? Why not call the police and have this girl arrested? Hey, police comrade We were cheated by a man all day Hanging out outside and not coming home We haven't been able to contact him. Police Comrade Can you help me find him? Don't worry, I'll check it for you. Your sister's household registration It's been moved away already. What My mother came to school to see me today. Gave me some food She said she knew she was wrong Want to make peace with me She said the same thing last time she came to deliver chicken soup I ignored her anyway. You did the right thing Uncle Do you think I'm doing the right thing? Don't you think I'm being too cold-blooded? After all, she is my mother. No Some people are simply not fit to be parents. For what he did to you I'm not worthy of being your mother. Can you help me transfer my account? Yesterday, the uncle said I've thought it through I have such a native family. Ways to change It's not easy to break free But I can't let them make a mistake and crush me He gave birth to me I will provide him with a pension But want more I don't have and I won't give You did a great job I have already helped you solve the account issue. Solved it Where is my account now? Of course it's with your husband. My uncle and I are a real family now. Why don't you want to? No I want I told you I would take care of you in your old age. The household registration book shows that we are husband and wife, not wife. Uncle Um Oh my god, I kissed the uncle's cheek I'm too courageous. But the uncle's face is very smooth and delicate It's not like what he said, all the bumps are scars. Xylophone Uncle, are you here to settle accounts with me? I I slept Haven't drunk the milk yet Drink and then sleep Thank you uncle You're welcome If you tease me next time Just remember not to tease me anymore Call the police early Call the police but my mother won't let me It's ok now My mother has moved her household registration. There's no way to subdue him anymore. The damned son dared to try to transfer his household registration I don't even want my own home anymore. Don't blame me for being rude. What is this for? You want to kidnap our brother? Kidnapping you is my sister I'll take you home. Long time no see Mom misses you I won't go back, let me go Stop struggling Just come back with me to the countryside and get married. He's already in. 300,000 gone No 300,000 There's another 1 million. 1 million Who are you? You want to kill someone in broad daylight? The video of you kidnapping Miss Mu just now I recorded it all. If you don't want to go to the police station Be honest with me I didn't kidnap Sister Jin. Tell this brother. I didn't kidnap you She is my sister Miss Meng, your brother has been following us. Do you want me to deal with it? Obviously, that person has been You can't get the betrothal gift if you catch it Why do they have to go home? Assistant Wang, please do me a favor. Let me walk by myself in the supermarket in front 1 million That's a lot of money. Who are you and mom planning to sell me to this time? No no no You won't tell the truth Then I'll go first. Assistant Wang, please handle it. Don't worry, Ms. Mu I'll give the police the video of her kidnapping you. You don't say now I'll talk to the police later. Sister, I didn't mean to hurt you. I just want to take you home Please let me go this time. A mysterious woman She came to our house Say give mom 1 million Let her marry you to the countryside I don't know anything else. Who is the mysterious woman? I really don't know who she is She suddenly came to our house that day Wearing a mask and sunglasses Gave us a deposit of 100,000 I'll give you the rest after the matter is done. Why I really don't know who he is He usually contacts us. The phone is here. Ms. Wood It's a space card. No real-name registration Last used at your school In our school Who did I offend at school? Let him use 1 million to deal with me I thought about it I really can't guess who it is. If you can't figure it out, stop thinking about it. Let me handle this matter. Let's just forget it. I will step up my defenses. Ignore them It should be fine. I always feel that things are not that simple Uncle is just an ordinary office worker There's no need to get involved in these things. Only a thief for a thousand days There is a principle of guarding against thieves for a thousand days. You should rest early I'm going to have a video conference Um well Uncle is really hard-working. It's so late and I still have to work overtime If only I could make money too. You want to find a job Yeah, I want to make money. But my eyes are not good I guess I can't find a stable part-time job. This year's Art Star Gala will have bonus performances The first place winner will get 20,000 yuan Then I'll participate OK, I'll sign you up later. I'm going out now My mother is abroad Let me visit a sick friend on his behalf It's ok, go and do your work first It's embarrassing to go alone. Qianqian, are you free this afternoon? You go with me. I don't have classes in the afternoon. I'll go with you Very good What happened to Qianqian? Is there a pine tree here? Shallow, you can see it Um No, it's just a feeling of deja vu. I think I've been here before It's like I saw it in a dream This place must be beautiful. There are no flowers or plants in the Lu family's garden. Looks bald It really has nothing to do with beauty. Such a big garden but nothing is planted I also heard from my mother Ten years ago The daughter that the Lu family cherished so dearly was lost. I lost it because I was taking care of the flowers in the garden. Since then The Lu Family Garden no longer grows any flowers or plants. There is only one pine tree. It's been lost for so many years and still not found? Over the years, the Lu family has spent a lot of manpower and financial resources But I haven't found it yet My mom said it's been so many years. I guess it'll be hard to find it again. Mrs. Lu also wanted to marry this daughter. Opportunity makes a difference If you can't find it again My daughter probably can't hold on any longer. Aunt, where is the young master? Today, we have guests at home The eldest master went out to greet him. What guests? I can let my brother go to greet me personally. I'm really sorry Jia Mu is unwell My father just took him to the hospital. It's okay, this is my friend Mu QianqianMu Qianqian How come she came to my house? Come in God is helping me Currently, Qian is wearing a mask This is my sister Yunxiang He is in the same school as you. Yunxiang, this is Miss Fang Yanran And Miss Mu Qianqian Hello, Ms. Lu Hello, Ms. Lu Hello, Miss Lu. I have a cold recently. So I wore a mask. Come in Miss Mu, you are also from the Zhang family like Miss Fang. Are you going to school at Xia's? It's either me or the Xia family. Our home is in a small county town on the outskirts of the city. Oh my god, you are also from the Xia clan. We are from the same school. What a coincidence! Miss Mu actually My mother and Aunt Fang I have always wanted to bring my brother and Miss Fang together. Why don't we go sit in my room? Leave them alone Let's go Miss Lu, I want to use the restroom Of course you can This is the Lu family I can't let him die here. I can't do it myself. What's wrong, Ms. Lu? Miss Lu, let me help you. Miss Lu Your voice sounds familiar Have we met before? I also feel very familiar with Miss Mu But we probably haven't seen it before. I estimate Miss Mu and I have a connection. My room smells good, right? This is a French luxury fragrance. I'm sorry I shouldn't have told you this. I forgot you couldn't see It doesn't matter I also feel like I've known Miss Lu for a long time. But we probably haven't seen it before. I guess Miss Lu and I hit it off at first sight. Come on, let me help you No need, I can do it myself Then be careful, ok? Miss Mu, where is your mask? Oh, I just washed my face. The mask may have fallen into the water. Well, it's no longer usable. Miss Lu, can you lend me a mask? I don't have a mask at home. Is the aftertaste gone? We're ready to go. Let's go. Miss Mu, this hat matches your outfit today. For you No thanks Miss Mu Miss Mu I really like you I want to give you a meeting gift But you insist on taking her down Do you look down on me? No, no. I like Miss Lu too. Me too This is the first time I like someone I just met. Then you take her in. Thank you Ms. Lu You're welcome. We're all friends. Just call my name and go. Back Qianqian, your hat is so pretty. It suits you very well. Miss Lu gave it to me. Yunxiang, you have a good eye. If you like Next time we make an appointment to go shopping together Okay, okay. Oh, oh, oh Oh, I'm sorry. Ms. Du, are you okay? Oh, I'm sorry. Ms. Mu, are you okay? Why are you so reckless? Miss Miss Gomu's clothes are wet You're very transparent, you should avoid it. I was too reckless. Qianqian, are you okay? I'm fine, don't worry. Ms. Mu's clothes are wet, so she can easily catch a cold. You should change with me. No, it's not too wet. How can that be possible? Wearing wet clothes can easily cause colds Yunxiang, please come here. How did I get such a white dress? This is more than just an elephant It's exactly the same. No, we can't let him go out like this. Ms. Lu, I'm fine. Thank you I'll give you the clothes after I wash them. No Consider this dress as a gift from me to Miss Mu. Ms. Lu You are such a nice person. Yes, I am famous for my good temper in the circle. But a good temper also has disadvantages There are always people who want to bully me Or maybe he wants to get close to me by using my connections. elder brother Ms. Yunxiang Lu Have you changed it? I've changed my clothes. Let's go out. What happened to Ms. Lu? What happened to Ms. Lu? I hope Miss Mu can understand what I just said Ms. Lu means I want to use your connections to seduce Mr. Lu I like Miss Mu very much I don't want Miss Mu to be that kind of person. You can rest assured about this. I have someone I like. I have no interest in Mr. Lu. Interesting, didn't you say Do your mother and Yanran's mother want to bring them together? But I have no idea about Mr. Lu. Yuxiang Hospital just called me Let me check on my mom. I have to go quickly Please send Miss Fang and Miss Mu off for me later. Good brother I will take good care of Miss Fang and Miss Mu. Go get busy Miss Mu, I was rude just now. Excuse me Come on, let's go Yunxiang, let's go back first. See you next time, auntie. Sorry for the poor hospitality this time. I will make up for it next time Good bye bye It's really a thousand calculations I didn't expect Mu Qianqian to come directly to our house. Has a relationship with Fang Yanran There won't be a next time. It's really haunting How can we solve this problem quickly? What happened to Qianqian? You've been absent-minded since you changed your clothes. Were you just scared? No, I just think Miss Lu is a nice person. In fact, Yunxiang is not the biological daughter of the Lu family It's just that most people don't know My mother and Mrs. Lu were classmates Knowing that the Lu family has only one daughter Haven't found it yet So I adopted Lu Yunxiang Said to be praying for the lost daughter Not biological And worried that I would seduce Master Lu Does he like No way, Yanran What do you think of Master Luo? I heard he's handsome. Are you interested in him? I don't know if it makes sense. But he has to be handsome and the richest man in the city. Young Talents I met him at a dinner party before. A Glimpse I almost fainted because of his handsomeness I think I've heard of him. The laboratory building of our school was donated by him, right? You won't like him. Yeah no no no I don't like him Although he is worth hundreds of billions Height 1.88 meters More handsome than a star But I heard that he is ruthless in the business world. Cruel In the Qin Dynasty He is simply a living modern version of the emperor. Three Thousand Beauties in the Harem Lovers all over the world Is it that exaggerated? It's not an exaggeration After all, he is Fu Sihan What are you paying for? My husband's name is this too. Which rich, which Si, which Han? True or False Too Rich Master of Ceremonies It's so cold That's not it. My husband is the one who pays I was scared to death I thought you married the richest man in the Bi family. How is it possible? The uncle is a bit old Looks ugly How could he be the richest man? What happened to your arm? I today Not with Yanran Visiting his mother's friend's house? When I was leaving, the daughter of that family pulled me Maybe I accidentally used too much force. Just pull it It's that serious He was just warning me not to seduce his brother. How is that possible? He and his brother are not biological children. I doubt he has other feelings for his brother. This family will have less contact in the future. It hurts No pain, uncle Your palms are so hot It makes me itchy If you pinch my face, I'll pinch it back. Wow, uncle's skin is so smooth It's not like he said his face is covered with scars. Bumpy Don't touch me, little blind man. If you want to see what I look like, get well soon oh Why did it feel like the uncle was shy just now? But I'm really curious about what the uncle looks like. If only I could see tomorrow. How's mom? Mom is heart disease The doctor can't help Can only rest Then we should send more people to look for my sister. Mom will probably get better after she finds her sister. Um Thank you for your hard work in entertaining Miss Mu and Miss Fang today. That's what I should do. What's wrong The bracelet you gave me is gone. Yesterday I saw you wearing I put it in my hand after taking a shower last night The sink Today I took Miss Mu to my room to play After she left, it disappeared. I don't want to believe that Miss Mu is such a person. I called my classmates and asked I only found out after asking around That Miss Mu has a bad reputation Heard She married an older married man. This incident caused a big uproar in the school. Then it was forgotten. It seems that her boyfriend has a strong background. I used my power to suppress this matter. It's okay to meet someone like this If you have bad character, don't contact me. Uncle How come you have time to take me to school today? Because I have a meeting in Room B in Central City. Just passing by Then you are in the Chamber of Commerce Have you seen Fu Sihan, the richest man in our city? Why did you suddenly mention him? You are interested in him. Not interested only I heard he's a handsome, bad-looking beast in human clothing. A bit curious, eh? A handsome and scumbag beast in human clothing What does it mean? Is to dress neatly in front of others Gentle and elegant The Queen is ruthless Ruthless But he has a powerful business empire More handsome than a star Even if he has three thousand beauties in his harem There will still be women who will continue to fall for him Who told you that he has three thousand beauties in his harem? Isn't it? As far as I know, he is married. He only has his wife. No other woman Maybe he is just creating a persona for the outside world. After all, he is the richest man. This surface work still needs to be done Uncle, you have to stay away from him. Don't learn bad things from him. Even believe in all kinds of rumors If you're going to the car, go slowly. Um Um Mr. Fu The woman who went to Miss Mu's house was fully armed Unable to determine face shape and body shape When I left, I changed the car or the one with the license plate Unable to determine at the moment There is no identity It looks so simple on the surface Even if I dig three feet into the ground Find this woman for me. So, should we tell Miss Meng about this? Don't tell her yet. Lest she be frightened away. I'll sign us up for the Freshman Orientation Party I'm ready to sing What show are you going to perform? Let me dance Then let's smash the welcome party together Overcoming difficulties First place Fight for 20,000 yuan Walk Uncle, you are back Why did you suddenly think of dancing? There is a welcome party at school today Winner of the competition You can get a bonus of 20,000 yuan I want to win this game To help uncle with household expenses I don't need the 20,000 yuan. If you like I support you But if you want to make money Then don't go. I want to make money to honor my uncle Honor you If you want to show filial piety, show filial piety to your parents I'm not your father I don't want to honor them. I want to honor my uncle. I don't want you to work so hard and be so tired This is the first time someone thinks I'm tired. Um Hungry I eat less at night I practiced dancing again Maybe I'm hungry again What do you want to eat? I'll let Dr. Liu do it. Uncle, can you take me out to eat? I want to eat Western food today Go change your clothes. good Slow down. Uncle This restaurant looks so upscale. The room is so big And the sound of music I just picked it randomly Eat now Um Come Eat a piece of beef Thank you uncle Little greedy cat I'm going to answer a call Um We have called before Reserved a room Why give our room to others? Ms. Lu, Ms. Bai I'm sorry. This box has been reserved by another VIP. Can I change the box for you? No, I just want this box. Ask others to change to other boxes But we can't afford to offend that VIP. You mean you can afford to offend the Bai family? no Miss Bai, that's not what I meant. 4 Brother Han I didn't expect to see you here. What can I do for you? Ah, brother Haven't you seen your college classmates for a long time? There's an alumni meeting this week. How about we go together? I am not attending I have something else to do Failed first Sister Bai, don't be discouraged. Mr. Fu is notoriously difficult to deal with. I have never been interested in women. You're so close to him. From now on, if we talk about Mrs. Fu You are definitely the most likely one. Don't you like my brother? Want to be his fiancee Why bless me? I've completely given up But in my heart Only Sister Bai is worthy of Mr. Fu. You are sensible Bai Xuan is madly in love with Fu Sihan The whole circle knows If he knew about Fu Sihan and Mu Qianqian He will never let Mu Qianqian go snort You wait for me here I'll go pay the bill Um Who is that woman? What is her relationship with Mr. Fu? Just now, my senior brother was having dinner with him in the box. It's the first time I've seen Mr. Fu went out to eat alone with a woman It seems that Mr. Fu treats him differently Sister Bai, please don't be angry. Maybe Mr. Fu just wants to try something new. Play with him Sister Bai, calm down. Sister Bai Calm down. It's a pity that Bai Xuan is so useless snort Did you enjoy your meal today? happy Oh, that's right. When is the orientation party? Can you come and see me next Tuesday? I don't have time next Tuesday. I'm going on a business trip All right Still want me to come? But work is more important. It's okay, I can let Yanran record the video Then I'll take it home and show it to my uncle. So good Um Okay, bye. Qianqian, you are at the back of the order Wait a minute, don't be nervous. Hey shallow Just treat the people in the audience as cabbages. This way you won't be nervous. I'm not nervous You are nervous Why weren't you nervous just now? Why did I get a phone call and it turned out like this? That is Lu Yunbai coming No wonder It seems you care about him a lot. Just kidding, I'm ignoring you. I don't know what the uncle is doing now. If only he could come. Miss Mu, do you have a show today? Yeah, yeah Miss Mu is very beautiful today Thank you Ms. Mu Do you have a performance today? I am their VIP guest. I will try to get your vote tonight. Miss Mu, you must work hard tonight. Must win first place here we go again The feeling of speaking in a sarcastic and contemptuous manner This is exactly how Miss Lu speaks. Or was it intentional? Where is Yanran? Master Lu is here What did Yanran pick up? elder brother Didn't you tell me that you don't want to associate with people with bad character? Why did you come to see Fang Yanran again? I don't care what method you use Call my brother to the company immediately Hello Mr. Lu Something happened at the company OK, I know. I'm going there now Is something wrong? Something went wrong with a project in the company I have to go back now. I may not be able to watch your welcome party tonight. terribly sorry It's ok, go and do your work Well, I left but I'm afraid to go back to the past. But it's not a solution after all As long as the cocoon in front of the tomb remains on the wall Sooner or later they will meet elder brother How come you are here? Come and see Miss Yanran's performance I just met Yanran She said you couldn't come today because of something. I thought I wouldn't see you today. I'll come when I'm done. It's really useless I can't even do such a small thing. The makeup on stage still needs to be very obvious This way it won't be too noticeable under the light. Thank you, Miss Lu. You're welcome I just hope you can stand out tonight Take first place Fortunately, just in case I had already put on a heavy makeup for Mu Qianqian Even if Lu Yuanbo saw it I won't recognize him. Yanran Tell me who are the people in Mu Qianqian's family Qianqian didn't mention much about her family. I only know that she has a mother and a younger brother Her family doesn't seem to treat her well. Hey, why are you suddenly asking about Qianqian? How old is he this year? He this year 2020 Great, it could be him. Are you free now? I'm not free now And I left beforehand It's ok. See you next time. Hello, help me check the tomb of a person I have made so much effort He still saw it. Tomb Diving Even if I saw it, so what? There are so many people in this world who look alike. The tomb-stalker has biological parents. So what if they look alike? Miss That little girl found a wild man from somewhere. Injured my son I have to take care of my son I can only go and settle the score with him in a few days. Currently, Qian is with a rich man. Driving a luxury car and living in a luxury house every day He has long forgotten about you as his mother. However, the grace of giving birth is greater than heaven. If you ask him for money, he will give it to you. There is such a greedy mother Even if Mu Qianqian saved Old Madam Fu, what would happen? The Fu family will definitely drive him away soon. Hahaha Dear students, The welcome party is about to end Now I'm going to announce The first place in the welcome party performance is Mu Qianqian Welcome Qianqian dances really well Uncle, I have good news for you. I won first place The prize money is 20,000 yuan I saw you play. Very good dance Uncle, you're not on a business trip. It's over. Come back early. Why didn't you tell me you were coming back early? I was here before you came on stage I didn't tell you in advance I'm afraid you'll be nervous. Come out quickly. Then you wait for me I'll be out soon. mom What did you say Your voice You are Mu Qianqian I am Mu Qianqian I'm sorry. I have something urgent to do. I'm leaving first. It's really Mu Qianqian How come she looks so much like my mom when she was young? It's like they were carved from the same mold. Is she my sister? Uncle, this is for you. A-choo The temperature has dropped recently. Wear more clothes Uncle, I'll do it myself. Dragonfly Show Brought a lot of clothes The uncle probably didn't see the panties in my bag. Quite cute Uncle, if you do this again, I will be angry. What if I'm angry? Just answer with your little fist Like a harmless little female cat I'm ignoring you. Whose phone is it? It was Yanran who called. He said Mr. Lu asked about my family situation She asked me how old I was. say what He seems interested in me. He suspected Mr. Lu because of the dance I danced today I kind of like me Give me your phone Block his phone number No more contact from now on I didn't expect the uncle to be so possessive. What did you say Um Nothing nothing Uncle Can you have a drink with me to celebrate? Why do you drink alcohol when you are so young? I'm of legal marriage age. And they're all married. Is there anything you can't drink? Drinking is not good for your eyes The doctor said Drink a little It's okay, just drink a little And I used to see it on TV. If you win, celebrate. Let's celebrate today Uncle, can you drink a little with me? good Then a little bit Sweet and slightly sour taste A bit complicated But I still want to drink Why Drink slowly, this wine is very strong Very strong Delicious and No, you can't drink anymore. Why did the floor suddenly become so soft? Can't even stand steadily Don't move. You're drunk. Didn't you just have a drink? Why are you drunk? Little girl Don't blame me if you tease me again Uncle, although you are ugly There's no money either. But I still like you quite a lot Don't worry, I will take care of you until the end of your life release Um, no, no, no Uncle, please don't leave. I want to sleep with my uncle today Sure Um My family left me. Uncle, you can't leave me Then you think about it Don't regret it I got drunk after just one drink. I will never drink again Uncle, please don't leave me, okay? I want to sleep with my uncle today Oh my god, I drank. So brave Did I do anything to the uncle while I was drunk? The bed sheets have been changed Could it be Do we really Uncle I drank too much yesterday Did you do something out of the ordinary? Did I do that to the uncle? Just what you think Uncle, I will be responsible for you. Miss Mu, you were drunk yesterday Vomited all over the bed I made some porridge today. You drink something, it's good for your stomach Big Gangster How do you want to be responsible? Uncle, you are so bad. How dare she be a mistress to an old man You teamed up with your old man to send your dad to the hospital You have to pay for this medical expense. I have no money You have no money Your old man is rich. I worked so hard to raise you He wants to marry you without spending a penny No door If you don't give money I will show off your ugly deeds at the school gate every day He has no money either. He spent all his money on my eye treatment. I won't do it even if you force me You heartless bitch With a rich man, he lives a life of luxury I don't care about the life or death of my family. I have raised you in vain. I should have killed you if I had known It's you who I raised. You want to marry him Then you have to give money He didn't marry me I haven't married either. Don't blackmail him. He married the girl I raised. Son If you don't give money I'll go to your company to make trouble It bankrupts your business. Don't think about having a good life. Thank you for taking care of me during this time He also paid for my eyes treatment. Wait until my eyes get better. I'll give you the money back. The uncle is just a worker. If my mother really makes trouble It's gonna be miserable. Uncle saved me I'm really ungrateful In turn, it hurts him Let's get divorced What did you say he I don't want to hold you back Wu Jianqiang, I am your husband I know That's why my mom can ask you for money Only we are divorced. This matter has nothing to do with you. Don't cry Tears will affect the recovery of the eyes Uncle's embrace is so safe and warm I'm this big Uncle is the first He is the only one who treats me so well. The more this The more I can't let the other party get involved Where's my cell phone? Qianqian Give me your hand This is This is what my grandmother left for her granddaughter-in-law This is too expensive. I can't have Qianqian, remember this You are my wife Always As for the Mu family Let me handle it sorry Sorry to bother you. We are a family Don't talk about two things Liu Yi has already prepared dinner Let's go eat. Mu Qianqian, your mother asked me to tell you something. She already knows where your man lives. If you don't go find her She will go find you I thought it was so pure I don't know how many times the old man has passed it by. Your mother really went too far. It's been like this for several days in a row. I don't care what he does to me. After all, I'm used to it But I'm afraid he'll go find the big trees. Shallow I didn't expect you to be such a cold-blooded woman. Go out with an old man to eat delicious food and drink spicy drinks He ignored his mother and brother. No, I have to go find him. You guys come to me What's going on? What's the hurry? Let's talk after dinner Now that you're rich, you look down on your family, right? Chen Hui, just order whatever you like. This girl is awesome Rich people have a lot of money. Don't spend money on your family Who to give flowers to It won't be a bargain for outsiders. Hey, bring it here this this this this this Ye Quan, hurry up! This lady needs something A girl What dishes do you want? Serve her a bowl of white rice Just serve with some leftovers Why don't you go soon? Not a high-end restaurant, but delicious How much does that guy give you per month? He just works for others. How much money can you have I heard that I'll treat your eyes. But it cost 8 figures Can money cure it? We don't have many. 500 Not a cent less You took all the money he gave me for my medical treatment. That's all his savings. It's the money from selling his house and car. Where does he have any money now? Your elbows are bent outward, right? You were just kept by him. Be careful with that man. I'll dump you with another woman. You come back again and let us support you mom Am I your biological child? Why in your heart? Not even as good as a puddle of mud on the ground You are such a heartless person Without me, there would be no you. I raised you You have to give me money good I'll raise money for you. But don't go to uncle's company Otherwise I won't get a penny. I'm stupid. As long as you are willing to pay I also went to the hospital What's the fuss? I am full. Hahaha Hey Where are you going? To the bathroom. This damn girl just left like that Such a big person Also eat white shit What did the school teach him? Can I pay now? Why is it so expensive? Just this meal costs tens of thousands of dollars. Are you stealing money? Our menus are clearly marked with prices You have been informed clearly before you click The portions are a bit large But you insist on the point Dead girl If I could see you I'll ask you to pay me back tenfold This old lady of dreams is fucking useless I personally sent her a message. Now not only are we being fooled I was also cheated That's because she has nothing in her hands. If she had a video. snort Leave this matter to me I promise to stick to the face HD Um snort Yo, isn't this Mu Qianqian not noble? Why are you throwing yourself into my arms now? Okay, since you're so proactive. Today I will accompany you to have fun No, no, hum Ah, it's you Uncle Are you okay? I'm fine, uncle. Are you injured anywhere? I'm fine, don't worry. Okay, let's go home. Find the person Delete the video for me Find out their identities Those who deserve to be jailed should be jailed The bankruptcy of the bankrupt The roll out of the lower room Ms. Mu Mr. Fu has a little allergy on his neck This is ointment. Why would I be allergic to something for no reason? I was bitten by an insect in the woods. The doctor said it's okay. Just apply some ointment Thank you, Assistant Wang Sorry for bothering you today Should Uncle, I'm here to bring you some ointment. good Wait a moment Please help me paint it. Okay A little bit down A little further down A little to the left Yunxiang Why didn't you tell me Mu Qianqian and Fu Sihan know each other Now my family is bankrupt And be kicked out of the market I will also be prosecuted and imprisoned. You must help me You didn't give me up. No I love you I like you How could I give you up? I just need money urgently. OK It's just 10 million? Abandon one Still want to threaten me What does uncle mean? Close and distant Should I divorce? Qianqian I heard from Yanran that your mother is coming to see you. Are you okay? Don't worry, it's okay If you encounter any difficulties and need help You can come to me anytime. We are good friends Yanran and I will help you Don't worry, I can come to you if I have any difficulties. Are you going to the hospital for a re-examination of your eyes? I send you No need, I've got the car. Oh, I just happened to go to the hospital to do something. Just think of me as taking your ride Well, okay then. Uncle, your hands are so hot. Like a stove Could it be a fever caused by allergies? or Let's go to the hospital. ah If you have nothing else to do, I'll go back first. Do you know the consequences of teasing me? If you dare to tease me again Don't blame me for not being gentle with women. The uncle said I teased him He was obviously teasing me After flirting, I still don't admit it Not yet responsible Then I'll go in first. Go do your thing. I'm not that busy. I can accompany you to see the doctor first. No, no, no You should get busy. Brother, the method you mentioned to chase girls seems to be useful She's so willing to let me send her off. When did I tell you how to chase girls? But she has had some difficulties recently. I don't know how to comfort her I don't know how to get him to be with me. Anything else to say directly Bro, I understand. What does he know? You need to confirm these documents in person. You still haven't told Qianqian your true identity. Is it necessary? When her eyes get better, she will know everything. Why on earth did you marry her? Grandma, didn't you want to repay me by letting me marry her? Oh, just do it. Qianqian is so pretty, cute and good-looking I'm sure a lot of boys like her. If you don't look at it well Sooner or later, he'll run away with someone else. Is he going to the hospital for a follow-up checkup this afternoon? It should be his turn. Prepare a car to go to the hospital oh Do I need to tell Miss Mo in advance? What did you call him just now? Ms. Meng She is married get married The subordinate called the wrong Didn't you say before that you have Any opinions? No. I don't have any opinion You pay wages You are the boss Call me whatever you want me to call you Just be obedient. Great, the doctor said. My eyes It will probably be clear in two or three weeks. Then I will be able to see the uncle clearly. Then I can work and earn money. I want to tell this good news to Uncle and Miss Gu Why is Miss Mu here? Are you sick? It's Miss Lu I am not sick I had eye surgery before. Come to review today I came with my friend for a pregnancy test. Oops, I forgot to introduce This is my schoolmate, Ms. Mu. This is Bai Xuan Bai's sister My good friend This is Bai Xuan Bai's sister My good friend Hello, Ms. Mu I heard Yunxiang say it a long time ago. Miss Mu is beautiful It's true that hearing about someone is not as good as meeting them in person Thank you I heard Yanran say that Miss Lu is the real beauty How come you two keep praising me? Ignore you guys Wo Yao Qu Tang Wei Sheng Jian Don't worry, a country girl How can she compete with me for a man? Then please, Miss Mu, stay here with me. Wait a minute Yingxiang Children under 3 months old Somewhat nervous But I always hope someone is with me You should be careful during the first three months of pregnancy. Originally, the child's father was going to accompany me for a pregnancy checkup today. We're just not married yet. His grandmother doesn't agree with us being together Elderly people generally like children very much. As long as you tell him you're pregnant Um I think grandma would agree that you two should be together. He originally agreed to our marriage. I never thought his grandma got into a car accident. A girl saved him. Blindness He was ordered to repay the favor. Take care of that girl Wait till the favor is repaid Naturally, he will come back to give me and my child a name. Uncle Why are you so nice to me? Return the favor Could it be that Bai Xuan's senior brother is a The baby in his belly is also his. No, maybe it's just a coincidence. Fu Sihan Yingjie No problem You don't have to pick me up. If you tease me again, I will ignore you, brother. Uncle Stone Okay, I won't say anymore, I love you Ms. Mu, are you okay? I'm fine I hope you're okay. Your ring is like Grandma Fu's peaceful appearance. The woman who pesters her senior brother Brother, there is no way I would like you. Get out of here if you know what's interesting I'll go find Miss Lu. Really uncle He is really an uncle. It's so sad that the uncle has someone he likes. I have been delaying him. My heart hurts Qianqian, you're late for the follow-up. What a coincidence! Qianqian, what's wrong with you? Did the doctor say your eyes haven't recovered yet? No The doctor said he is recovering well. I'm just too happy. So I feel like crying Yeah That's really great Do you want to celebrate? No I want to go home Uncle You are back It's so late, why haven't you slept yet? I want to ask you something Why When will you divorce? The uncle suddenly took the initiative to file for divorce Don't you want to let Miss Bai Xuan suffer any more? Uncle Thank you for taking care of me during this time. It also caused a lot of trouble for you and grandma. The doctor said my eyes It will probably be clear in a week. How good is it for you and me to divorce at this time I'm going to bed first. Uncle, what are you doing? Please let me go You hurt me You let me go, I'll let you go Who am I? No one told you Don't look at this old and ugly person like that. Are you a man you hate and dislike? Uncle, although you look old and ugly But I never disliked you I won't hate you Stop crying alright Stop crying If you cry again, your eyes will go blind. Gloves I'm going to the Civil Affairs Bureau to get a divorce tomorrow. Uncle sorry Thank you very much for taking care of me during this time. Wish you and your loved ones Happily Ever After Is Xiao Li here? Vice President Wang Zhu left work on time every day recently. What happened today? They asked us to come over to work overtime. I have made an appointment with my boyfriend. I suggest you don't talk about your boyfriend later. The vice president is not heartbroken, is he? I don't know if I'm in love. Such a simple question, buddy also has to ask online Of course it's good for him. The wholehearted one Communicate well If language doesn't work, communicate with your mouth Physical communication Let him give you a child. If you have children, you will definitely be reluctant to divorce. child Me and Mu Qianqian's child Why hasn't the uncle come yet? What time is it now? It's a quarter past ten It's already 10 o'clock Why hasn't the uncle come yet? Mr. Fu, your schedule today is very full. Do you think I should call my wife? Say you are not free today Need not I finally cheated on my wife. We're not really going to leave so hastily, are we? Mr. Fu and Ms. Mu are really nice people. Are you really not considering divorce anymore? Go help me with something. Call Uncle Stop hitting me. I'm here. Uncle Let's go Hello, the Civil Affairs Bureau just had a power outage. All divorce proceedings are suspended today Come back tomorrow Uncle can't get a divorce today. Do you have time tomorrow? No time to travel Going on a business trip A heartless little girl I can't wait to get a divorce. Eyes can't see I'm not afraid of being cheated Where to go on business trip for a few days I don't know You are in a hurry Oh, no hurry. Then we'll come back when you're free. Uncle Dad doesn't have time for divorce I'm actually a little happy There is a little bad idea I hope uncle is not free this year It would be best if I don't have time next year. I confessed to Qian Qian like this Will Qianqian accept me? Big Brother How come he is with Qianqian? Could it be that Qianqian is the sister-in-law I have never met? Nan Nan Mrs. Wu is not still in college, is she? Yes, Qianqian is from the same university as you. Why am I so miserable? The person I like is actually a married woman Sir, let's do this. She's actually my eldest brother's woman. My sister-in-law Amitabha Buddha bless you It's not a matter of thrift My elder brother must not know this. Otherwise he would break my legs. Why The meeting at 10:30 yesterday morning Give me your meeting minutes too. Um This is Mu Qianqian's information from childhood to adulthood According to the data shown Mu Qianqian is the biological daughter of the Mu family. So it's unlikely to be the second lady. He looks so much like my mother. The two of them look like mother and daughter. How could it not be? You say is it possible? They have only one daughter. Replaced with Mu Qianqian in the middle This is unlikely. It's entirely possible. Mu Qianqian is so outstanding Their family not only failed to train her well Instead, he advised her to drop out of school. And marry her. Return the gift Alas, this is how some parents treat their daughters. Especially some patriarchal Poor family In their eyes My daughter is someone else's. Only the son is his own To prove whether Mu Qianjian is my sister I have to do another paternity test. Go ahead You came to me just to date Qianqian I want to meet you shallowly But I don't have his contact information So I want you to help me make an appointment with him. What do you mean? Don't you know your mother wants to bring us together? And let me help you chase girls That's not what I meant. Mainly because he looks so much like my lost sister That's why I want to ask about him. What You don't mean to say Qianqian is your sister, do you? What You don't mean to say Qianqian is your sister, do you? right She looks exactly like my mom when she was young. So I suspect she is my lost sister Wait, let me sort it out. You suspect Qianqian is your sister So you look for me. I want to confirm whether Qianqian is your sister. right Then what's the point of asking him? He is the daughter of his teacher's wife. I feel sad for his vampire mother. I also know So I want you to get his DNA for me. It's easy to get shallow DNA I'll just give you his drinking glass. I just want to ask Mr. Lu to do me another favor. What's the matter? It would be best if he was your sister. If not Can you pretend to be his brother? Help him get rid of that vampire mom Escape from the Mu Family Okay Hello Ms. Meng Assistant Wang Why are you calling so late? Miss Meng, Mr. Fu is in trouble. Please come over here soon. He said something Okay, I'll be right there. Uncle Uncle, uncle, uncle Uncle, what's wrong with you? I drank a glass of wine at a drunken party I guess he was drugged. So how can I help you now? fine I've taken the antidote Who asked you to come here? Assistant Wang called me to come over. How do you feel now? If you want to leave, leave now I won't leave I was just too nervous Forgot how to breathe I can't breathe. Uncle you Are you making fun of me? No I just don't want to wrong you I don't feel wronged I'm willing to help uncle Uncle Close your eyes and don't move Uncle is a little hot Uncle, have you kissed many people? When have I ever kissed someone? If you've never kissed anyone, how can you be so nice? If you continue to flirt Don't blame me for not being gentle with women. I said I Willing to help uncle Then do your best Please help me Why can't I get through to Qianqian's phone? Paternity test is about shallow I wanted to ask him to come and see the results. Got the identification results. Um Come You come Why not? no He looks so much like my mom. Why not? Was there something wrong with the identification? It's impossible. I sent it directly to the identification department. There was no second person's hand. Unless the appraiser made a mistake. But this is almost impossible Smile According to our agreement Wait until Miss Mu comes back We arrange a meeting We can discuss how to get rid of her mother then. Thank you Although Miss Mu is not my sister But she's like my sister. Besides, there will be selfishness If I could let her pretend to be my sister My mother's heart disease should be better You have to talk to Qianqian in person about this. Look at them, they can't believe it. It seems my plan was quite successful. I want to exchange the paternity test I have sent for 1 million. 1 million Leave all the transactions to me. It's all because of the uncle who took so long My hands are so sore. I am shallow Why is it you? Ms. Bai It's you who is so shameless I let you go because I thought you saved Grandma Fu. Thought you would know Go farther away I didn't expect you to ruin my good deeds. So it was you who gave me the medicine. What am I Don't think I don't know You are just trying to use Grandma Fu's kindness to pester Senior Brother. turn out to be You already knew the relationship between me and Fu Sihan So you ran into me on purpose in the hospital that day You deliberately said those words to me So what? I really think others can't see it Your rescue of your father and grandmother was planned long ago Just to get close to my brother Before I rescued my grandma, Don't know them Don't slander me Don't think you were slept with by your senior brother You can be the official wife I tell you You don't have this fate How do you push me? I didn't push you You fell accidentally. What happened Brother, I don't know how I offended Miss Mu. She actually treated me like this I have a piano competition in two days. What should I do? Will you believe me, brother? Are you injured anywhere? I'm fine, brother. My hand hurts These are all pushed by Mu Qianqian He wanted me to die. I didn't. I know This room is equipped with surveillance cameras. Everything that just happened has been recorded. Brother, what kind of magic potion did he give you? He approaches you with bad intentions. Why did you choose him instead of me? Because of the friendship between the two families I won't bother with you about you drugging me at night But you shouldn't attack him. Brother, what are you talking about? Put this medicine in Fusihan's wine This 2 million is yours If I succeed I'll give you an extra 2 million Brother, I do this because I like you. Currently a country girl Still a blind man How can she compare to me? You were deceived by him. You think you are a Miss Bai and you are superior. What do you think in the eyes of the Bai family? The shares of Bai's company are important Or is your identity as Miss Bai more important? If you don't know what's going on Just leave me now My brother, you can't do this to me. Or do you want the Bai family? Tomorrow's news Miss Bai Xuan's arm was accidentally broken. Going abroad for treatment You can never go back home, right? Are you scared? Uncle Isn't it not nice of us to treat Miss Bai like this? After all, she is pregnant with your child. What did you say She told me she was pregnant with your child You didn't get married because you wanted to repay me. Do you believe it? That's not Uncle, you said it yourself Are you being nice to me just to repay me? This old man from the Bai family is very similar to my late grandfather. That's a comrade. The kind of fellowship in adversity So we occasionally interact with each other I'm not familiar with him. As for what you said The baby in his belly can't be mine I see He told me those things before I thought he didn't know who I was. But today I found out that he knows who I am so I suspect he said those things to me on purpose. You I don't want you to take care of me now. I want you to give me a baby Be the mother of our children how I don't want to Why are you suddenly talking about having a baby? I still say You want to have a baby with another man Like hugging you Hold me that Don't tell me that the guy outside the hospital is not the only one holding you. And others Oh, you mean the day I almost fell Please help my classmate. Just classmates Of course, he and I are just friends. I have two good friends in school. One is Yanran One is Fu Qianxing What What do you say his name is? Fu Qianxin Uncle, do you know me? know Oh, it's really just helping me. It's nothing. I know this is back. I have to thank him very much You As a mother, I was a little strict with him. But I'm doing this for his own good Our family has never favored boys over girls. otherwise It's impossible for a girl like him to stay in school all the time. Wo Shi Gong Ta Shang Liao Da Xue De Dui A Ta Bu Zhi Dao Gan En Jiu Suan Liao Huan Jiao Ren Ba Wo Da Jin Liao Yi Yuan Fu Xian Sheng Zhe Shi Mu Jia De Zi Liao Ju Mu Jia Cun De Ren Suo Shuo Tai Tai Shi 5Sui De Na Nian Bei Dai Dao Mu Jia Cun De Ta Ji You Ke Neng Bu Shi Qin Sheng De Er Dai Tai Tai Guo Qu De Na Ge Ren Shi Dang Shi Lu Jia De Yong Ren Lu Jia Yi Zhi Zai Xun Zhao Diu Shi De Nu Er Shi De Qian Ji Tian Lu Yun Bo Zuo Liao Tai Tai He Lu Jia De Qin Zi Jian Ding Ni Ye Qu Zuo Ge Qin Zi Jian Ding Ji De Zuo Liang Fen Hao Wo Zhe Ge Dang Ma De Shi Dui Ta Yan Li Liao Yi Dian Dan Shi Wo Du Shi Wei Ta Hao Wo Men Jia Cong Lai Mei You Zhong Nan Qing Nu Yao Bu Ran Bie Kan Liao Wo Yuan Ben Yi Wei Wo Du Yi Jing Xi Guan Liao Ke Shi Mei Ci Kan Dao Huan Shi Hui Ren Bu Zhu Nan Guo Ni You Mei You Kao Lu Guo Huo Xu Ta Bu Shi Ni De Qin Sheng Mu Qin Da Shu Wo Xiang Qu Jian Ta Yi Mian Hao Na Wo Rang Ren Gen Ni Yi Qi Qu Ma Zhe Ci Zhi Bo Xiao Guo Zhen Bu Cuo Da Jia Du Zai Tong Qing Wo Men Ma Wo Xiang Gen Ni Tan Tan Qian Qian Ne Wo Ke Shi Ni Qin Ma Wo Shi Ni De Qin Ren Ni Zen Yao Neng Zhe Yang Zi Dui Wo Ni Qian Qian Ni Ye Tai Guo Fen Liao Ba Zen Yao Neng Rang Zan Ma Gui Ni Ni Zhe Jiu Shi Na Ge Mei Liang Xin De Nu Er Hao Yi Duo Jue Shi Bai Lian Kan Zhao Mei Na Yao Leng Xie Zhong Jian Hui Bu Hui You Shi Yao Wu Hui A Neng You Shi Yao Wu Hui A Sheng Zhe Yang De Nu Er Huan Bu Sheng Yi Kuai Cha Shao Ai Yun Bai Kuai Kan Ni Mei Mei Zhe Ken Ding Shi Ni Mei Mei Ma Ni Kuai Ba Ta Dai Hui Lai Ba Ta Dai Hui Jia Ni Xian Bie Ji Dong Ni Xian Bie Ji Dong Ting Wo Shuo A Ni Shuo Ta Shi Yan Ran Tong Xue Wo Zhi Qian Jian Guo Ta Shi Yin Wei Ta He Ma Ma Nian Nian Qing De Shi Hou Chang De Tai Xiang Liao Suo Yi Wo Qu Zuo Liao Qin Zi Jian Ding Dan Jian Ding Bao Gao Xian Shi Ta Bu Shi Mo Ming Yao Yao Bu Bu Ke Neng Ta Ken Ding Shi Wo De Yao Yao There must be something wrong with that identification. Mom, let's go do another appraisal tomorrow. If there is no report, we will go find him. He won't believe it either. No, don't do a paternity test anymore. She must be your sister. Take her home now. I am a mother How can you not recognize your own child? Auntie, I also suspect there is something wrong with the identification. So I re-made it Qianqian is you back then Lost Daughter It's Yaoyao mom It's Yaoyao This is my Yaoyao I'm leaving and we'll take Yaoyao home. As far as I can remember I haven't had enough food. I started when I was 5 years old Just wash clothes, cook and do housework Even in the winter, I have frostbite on my hands I also have to do laundry for the whole family. Children from poor families grow up early Isn't that how all the kids in the countryside come from? Yeah My scholarship You bought all of them for your brother. New clothes and games You wanted me to drop out of school several times. I work to earn money for you to spend Later, at the insistence of the teacher, I was exempted from tuition fees. I can continue to go to school Wasn't the family poor at that time? Aren't you still studying? You didn't support me going to college. My tuition fees All of it was paid by me working part-time. Even after I went blind You took it upon yourself to expel me from school. Sold me for 300,000 My eyes Or the old lady and her grandson I rescued Healed me You were raised by me. Isn't it for your own good that I do this? For my own good From childhood to adulthood I don't even have a room of my own. My bed is always full of clutter I can't even stretch my body. I can only curl up on it Even in the coldest winter I don't even have a decent quilt. Is this how you treat me? This mother favors boys over girls Severe Vampire What is this mother? How could you treat your daughter like this? I want to fill my own grave I won't give this family any money. mom Sometimes I really want to ask you Am I your biological child? You stupid idiot Don't peel it. Who said you are a jinx? Born without a sound I didn't lose you It's good to raise it this big. Who would like a jinx? Ah, that man If I knew the function of you, the unlucky star I'll definitely dump you right away. Don't listen to his nonsense. You're not some jinx. You are our Lu family's little princess. You are our Lu family's little princess. ah Yaoyao my darling Mom's good daughter You suffered I blame my mother for being so stupid to find you You are Mrs. Lu Mrs. Qianqian Lu is your biological mother You are the lost daughter of the Lu family. She is a mother No wonder her embrace is so warm This is my biological mother. What are you doing? Stealing someone else's daughter We did a paternity test. It's not up to you to decide whether she is your daughter or not. I raised this girl. Even if she is not my biological child But I also have the grace of raising you. There's no me This girl is already dead. I saved her for so many years. I spent a lot of money raising him. If you want to recognize this daughter, Just pay me back all the money I spent on him. good We also But you abused my sister. I won't give up. When did I abuse him? Where is the evidence? Just relying on one's mouth Who is Snowflake? he Chrysanthemum, you and the Lu family servants Kidnapped Lu Yunyao, daughter of the Lu family Want to sell it to human traffickers It just so happens that the human traffickers have been caught. You take him home Lie that he is your daughter Now we have decided to formally arrest you You stole my daughter. Damn human traffickers Virtual child trafficking and his son Mu Chenghui Child abuse and kidnapping are both a foregone conclusion. He will spend the rest of his life in prison. Why do you dirty your hands? take away my daughter Mother younger sister Yaoyao your eyes I rescued an old lady some time ago There was a car accident My eyes can't see clearly now My good daughter How come you So silly and kind Yaoyao, don't worry I will definitely heal your eyes It's okay Mom, I've had eye surgery. The doctor said my eyes will recover in a while. And it was a blessing in disguise for me. get married What You are married You are married Tell your mother now. What kind of person is your husband? What does it do? How old are you this year? He is just an ordinary employee working in the company. This year I am over 30 What about family background? Not that good looking There's no money either. But he is a very nice person He also takes good care of me. If it weren't for him I can't even sit here now. Talking to you In this case Then bring him back someday so we can meet him. How could a man like this possibly be worthy of my sister? I don't agree Absolutely not I really didn't expect Mu Qianqian to be married. And found an old, ugly and poor man Hum, you deserve it. Uncle, you are so lucky. I'm lucky to marry you. That's right I'm going to become a rich girl. You're going to be rich soon. I helped the little rich woman Um I found my biological mother. My original name is Lu Yunyao Nickname: 11 I'm going to be a rich woman soon You have to hold on tight. Then I have to start preparing the betrothal gifts. Aren't you out of money? Aren't you out of money? Why do you ask? I thought you were here to cure me. Spent all the money It seems you have some savings. I still have a little money. Well, let's keep it to ourselves. I told you I want to be a rich girl. Besides, didn't you say you wanted to have a baby with me? Raising a baby is expensive. You agreed Um I like uncle I want to have a baby of my own with uncle Me and uncle Really together We are a real couple now. Are you awake? Wake up uncle Come in Come drink some water to moisten your throat What time is it? It's ten o'clock. Oh, I have to hurry up and clean up. I made an appointment with my mother and brother today Said I'd take you to see them. Mr. Fu, why are you here? elder brother This is my husband Fu Sihan Shallow Didn't you say your husband is old, ugly and poor? How could it be Mr. Fu? Are you mistaken? I'm still embarrassed to bring your husband here. So I asked Mr. Fu to do the fake No fraud I am the one in Qianqian's mouth Old, ugly and poor husband You should have told us earlier. Your husband is Fu Sihan Brother, you are really an uncle. There is business relationship between the two Mr. Fu's mother, just call me Sihan Sihan How did you meet? Mother We got together when I was in college. My grandma had a car accident. It was Qianqian who bravely saved my grandma I also paid for it. I am grateful to her I'm a fucking I haven't taken good care of her over the years. I hope you can treat her well in the future Don't worry, mom Qianqian is the only lover in my life I finally found my real family. I don't know if they will like the tree. Do you know the consequences of teasing me? If you dare to tease me again Don't blame me for not being gentle with women. No no no Uncle, please don't leave. I want to sleep with my uncle today Sure Yaoyao, you finally woke up, mom I am a mother Qianqian You can finally see Very good Where is the uncle? Sihai, he's fine. OK Do you feel uncomfortable anywhere? I can see it You are an uncle It's me Your husband You are not an uncle nor my husband. I I'm not your husband Who else could I be? Can't you hear my voice? Although your voice is similar to that of an uncle But you can't be his uncle. He looks old and ugly. Don't think you can pretend to have the same voice as him. You can fool me I said that just to tease you. I plan to wait until you are better. Then you can't be him. Uncle would never tease me. Mom, kick this fake out! He is not my husband. He is not my husband, okay. mom Get out, mom. Just woke up He needs to rest. Why don't we talk about your business later? good I'll come back later then. Actually, I'm tired. Okay, okay, then you take a good rest first. Mr. Fu You can't go in Why Because I have already found the person who hurt me That's Him What I'm just too afraid of being abandoned by you. I didn't mean to hurt him. I don't have bad intentions I just want to teach him a lesson. A little lesson Do you think you can really do it perfectly? What else did he do? He was the one who framed my grandma in the car accident. He already knew that Qianqian was the daughter of the Lu family. It was he who sent people to spread the slander against Qianqian in the school. Instigating White Boots to cause trouble for Qianqian He also asked the Mu family to tie Qianqian up and take her to the countryside to sell her. Want to kill me to film a video insulting Qianqian Until now After he knew that Qianqian was the daughter of the Lu family I want to kill him. You already knew that Qianqian was Yaoyao Not only did you not tell us this earlier, And hurt her intentionally Stop her from going home Are you still human? Bro, I was wrong Please forgive me this time. Yunxiao, I treat you well Why do you do this? Why I adopted you and have done my best for you over the years I always thought you were kind. I didn't expect you to be a foster parent. Unfamiliar ungrateful wolf I knew you were like this. I shouldn't have taken you from the orphanage. You regret adopting me now. Why do you say I'm an ungrateful person? Why do you say that? But But you want to kill my daughter That's because you treat them differently. Now they are all your daughters Am I not that? Haha You think it's all our fault? right It's your fault Who asked you two to do this? I think about finding him every day. It's not that you think about looking for him every day Do I hate him so much? Treat you as my biological parents But what about you? You are looking for one every day The daughter who doesn't know whether to live or die In the final analysis You guys forced me to do this. You are simply unreasonable. I said it at the beginning Regardless of whether Yaoyao is found or not You will always be our Lu family's little princess. I am the only daughter of the Lu family. Walk Uncle, are you okay? I'm fine, don't worry. Don't be afraid Don't do this again next time. It really scared me. You finally acknowledged me. Who told you to lie to me that you were old and ugly? Caused me to make so many embarrassments Too much Uncle Still calling uncle husband