Welcome back, history enthusiasts, to another Today, we delve into the epic and tumultuous century-spanning conflict between the kingdoms daring knights, cunning tactics, and epic history. The Hundred Years' War can be divided own unique character. The first phase, called and Poitiers, which saw the English longbowmen French forces with their deadly arrows as emerged. The second, Carolinian phase, started spilled in Spain and beyond, immortalizing well as the English chevauchee and the French and Pontvallain. The third - Lancastrian phase, at Agincourt by king Henry V. A civil war the Armagnacs began, but the country was saved the tide at Orleans, allowing prince Charles with the battles of Patay, Formigny and Castillon, the reclamation of French territories. We so, buckle up for an exhilarating ride through War, its main battles, and the incredible one of the most epic chapters in the chronicle and relive the battles and legends of the England in 1066, his status as a vassal of situation in Western Europe. The monarchs on the continent as a vassal of the French realm. Sometimes they controlled even larger a trend which reached its zenith between 1154 half of the country. This didn't last for French kings beginning with Philip II Augustus 1224 all English possessions on the continent, strip of maritime territory had grown prosperous source of royal income through the wine trade, England itself. Gascony's population valued and were not 'French' as we know the French middle-ages was a separate Gascon tongue, the people of northern France or its Capetian goes so far as to call the inhabitants 'the In 1259 King Henry III was forced to sign his claims on most continental lands but was but only as a vassal of the French kings, widely thought to be one of the factors which Despite the peace, a number of dynastic and ratcheted up the tension between England and in raising armies and waging war. This state a long time, but on January 31st 1328 Charles dynasty, died without a male heir and left the fact that the English king Edward III the French lords decided that his cousin Philip Capetian dynasty, would inherit the throne. Law which prevented women from inheriting he was related to Charles IV through his mother England was under control of Isabella and homage to Philip VI. A year later, the now the despised Roger Mortimer and exiled Isabella of his kingdom. The newly minted English king Scottish allies at Halidon Hill, leading David invitation, who then announced that any future account. Edward was not amused, and thereafter an adversary. to grant the fugitive French count Robert guilty of poisoning his aunt in a dispute of Artois, condemned to death and then chased was warmly welcomed by Edward III, who granted despite the fact that Philip VI had declared When Philip sent a demand to Edward through to surrender Artois, the demand was rejected Since Robert was actually in England, where over Edward, rather than in French territory, which further displayed the king-vassal paradox All of these tensions came to a head on May Aquitaine no longer belongs to Edward 'because acts committed by the King of England and citing his granting of haven to Robert Artois. to war - the so-called arriere ban and this Years' War, despite the lack of actual declaration. tensions - such as the gradual centralisation Plantagenet's vassal status and other factors. The conflict began on two fronts almost immediately Gascony. While that was happening in the south, into Flanders - England's closest commercial and purchased the Holy Roman Emperor's Ludwig benefit from the expense. After even being off for funds, Edward launched a campaign eventually faced off against Philip and his in October. After a tense standoff, Edward Philip didn't pursue him. nightmarish for the local populations in Edward's as much carnage against hostile cities and the enemy government, economy and ultimately king had seen the effectiveness of such tactics such as those in northern France, and so the yet fully developed, these chevauchees were the deliberate aim of systematically devastating through which the raiders marched, all the the allegiance between the conquered and their the utility of this strategy was to prove though, Edward's campaign had left the king but this didn't stop him from formally proclaiming during January of that year. in Edward's favour. Ever since 1336, English to seaborne raids from French attacks. While managed to retaliate with equal rapacity, a real possibility of England being invaded. months after his coronation in Flanders. The in the area also provided adequate reason Battle of Sluys (1340) and Battle of Saint After making landfall, the king raised a new for the war. Reinforcements and ships - mainly were assembled at Orwell in Suffolk, ready wreaked havoc upon the English shores with heavy losses in a surprise attack and could so they instead limited themselves to defend ordered the creation of an armada and had in Flanders, to cut off Edward from his mainland king announced against the advice of many attack France's 200 vessel-strong armada, and destroy it. In defiance of those members foolhardy naval assault, Edward III proclaimed are afraid may stay at home!". He set sail of the estuary of the Zwin river in the afternoon The French fleet anchored outside Sluys was 7 royal sailing ships, 167 merchant ships of 212 vessels manned by 19000 sailors, 500 by two knights, Nicholas Behuchet and Hugh The English fleet was composed of three warships trained in the art of war: exact numbers are at 4000 men at arms and 12000 archers. The French fleet was drawn up in three lines vessels in the first line, though their tight Edward's spies had informed him of the French wood". The King decided to attack in the 24th. With the tide and winds in their favour advanced in three rows with the bigger ships men-at-arms for every two hosting longbowmen. had, while anchored, drifted eastward removing not make use of their second lines. As the 3 pm, the English longbowmen rained arrows wooden towers and crows nests purposely built sun in their eyes and armed with slower shooting couldn't do anything and were riddled with the mayhem. Once a French ship was weakened by English soldiers, making short work of which were the Christopher and the Edward, the French. The Genoese galleys, who had protested the situation turned sour for the French. After four hours of fighting, the French front advanced upon the smaller vessels of the second the same time, many flemish boats set sail from behind: it was a complete disaster for ended: the French had lost either to the English to escape during the night. No quarter was or were killed by the locals on the shore: men, and it is said that only Philip VI's The English lost only a few ships, but the The English victory was crushing for French the Schlecht Valley in early 1340 against now had to move to Arras to cover the entrances northern France in a two pronged attack with himself would lead the bigger contingent to placed under the command of Robert d'Artois he still had many allies in the region. D'Artois arrived in the vicinity of Saint-Omer the previous day by Eudes, Duke of Burgundy town and would be followed a few days later of the defenders up to 3000 men at arms and was accompanied by 1000 longbowmen, 10 to a few hundred men at arms, who razed the town Robert knew that the main French army was hoping to draw them out. He placed himself him, while the centre and the left flank were of southern Flanders, with a contingent in obstacles to be built against cavalry charges. the walls, as he knew the King would soon of eager knights with part of the garrison flank. The French were swiftly repulsed, in once the Flemish began to pursue them they melee that lasted all afternoon. Seeing this, decided to join the fray and they burst out 300 heavy armoured knights smashed into the to pieces. The second line began to flee back with around 8000 perishing. Meanwhile, the where the English were positioned. Seeing charge against the Burgundians who were surprised. at arms were forced to fall back to the safety them, but the Duke suffered heavy losses. their victory, the English crossed paths with the enemy camp. It was dark and both sides they just passed each other, where a surprised and loss of the camp. The day after, he had in good order to Edward. Following the Battle at Saint-Omer, the French at Beauvines by the start of September. Edward from the 23rd of July, battering the walls and raiding the countryside, but the town but strapped for cash, Edward wanted to confront do so. After some weeks of negotiation, the of Esplechin was signed. Back in England, and he lashed after his tax collectors and Breton Civil War (1341-1343) into a proxy war when Duke John III of Brittany the old childless duke had promised the duchy to the French noble Charles of Blois, married when he passed away, both Charles and John civil war inevitable. The one who made the of Nantes in May 1341 and taking possession of the eastern part of the duchy, while the great feudal nobles and were out of his reach. peasantry largely supported John, while the of the breton towns were confused about the opened their gates while others resisted. of much of the duchy. The French king was more preoccupied with preparing for the impending be extended for another year. Still, rumors the English king pushed him to have the Parisian Charles of Blois and he prepared for an invasion into English hands, though no help materialized In Autumn 1341 a strong French army gathered town of Champtoceaux, laying siege to it. the city, but after two days of bloodshed capturing Champtoceaux, the french army advanced capital of Nantes, where a short siege ensued, to rebel, Monfort had to surrender himself threw him in prison. Charles of Blois could duchy, with many of Montfort's old supporters Montfort's wife, took control of her husband's where she waited for English reinforcement For Edward this was a great opportunity: as VI, Edward's geopolitical interests were reinforcement and communication routes by Brittany, and a hostile ruler in the duchy Edward had found difficulties to amass the help only materialized in August 1342. By towns on the southern coast of Brittany and England of the Earl of Northampton and Robert advanced out of Brest and besieged Morlaix, On the 30th of September, in the outskirts against the English positions covered by forest, While Blois' attempt was unsuccessful, the King Edward himself had arrived in Brittany many raids were launched in other areas of French morale. In December a French royal army encamped at Ploermel. Here, Papal envoys negotiated a 3-year truce in January 1343. Pope Clement VI tried to at Avignon the year after, but neither side other and the war continued unabated. In fact, the war in Brittany continued as for the duchy as a personal war between himself and France. During late 1343 English partisans following year Blois traversed southern Brittany This conquest, the many monfortist casualties who hoped to return in the graces of the French many fleeing to the court of Blois. Edward's Hennebont. Battle of Crecy (1346) venture into Gascony, with several thousand and then defeating a French counterattack plan and amass his forces in England. He sailed at the Norman town of La Hogue with a large This new theatre of war in Normandy was virgin and because of that its devastation would king hoped to extract from it. In addition, prestige and hopefully goad him into an ill-considered campaign in Normandy is a matter of debate that the plan was to campaign in Gascony, the case, the English army rested for the a blistering chevauchee throughout the Cotentin intentionally ruined, mills, barns and orchards or stolen - nothing was to be left for the but despite accepting the garrison's surrender without quarter. When the three-day sack was the king began sending barges filled with As a wave of terrified refugees fled before Paris. At the same time, Philip VI had received army near Saint-Denis. However, it wasn't intervene as Edward reached Poissy, from where and Saint-Germain, within sight of Paris' The English had shown Philip's subjects marching north again, but now the French army an opportunity to pin Edward on the Somme's now campaign-hardened army of England encamped Though Edward had managed to evade Philip's vanguard was getting unnervingly close, so After a brief reconnaissance, a plan was devised. Europe, slowly got closer, Edward drew up between Crecy and Wadicourt which looked south knock him off it. to calculate, but Edward's was probably chainmail-clad men-at-arms and dismounted known as hobelars. A further 7,000 were England's armour-piercing bodkin arrows. Since the reign tasked with contributing men to the national of battle, and were legally obliged to train was divided into three groups. Two were in commanded by Earls Arundel and Northampton sixteen-year old Black Prince - into battle. as a strategic reserve. All three had infantry while fronted by a series of pits, trenches Edward went among his men, inspiring and encouraging became brave, whilst also warning them not so would endanger the army. Morale and discipline to break ranks so they could sit, eat, drink was joined. The king himself took up command his reserve division. approach by late afternoon, consisting of 12,000 infantry and 6,000 crossbowmen. Since exhausted from the days' march, France's his outriders to encamp for the night and better rested and prepared. However, a combination control created a situation where he had to contingents began their assault. and French crossbowmen, who lacked their protective but incredibly intense thunderstorm soaked longbowmen had the longer range and as soon forward and let loose a storm of arrows, slaying and setting the rest to flight. Witnessing their fleeing skirmishers, the Count of Alencon7 our advance!", at which point the first unceremoniously cut down their own infantry. advance and left it struggling at the base loosed with deadly precision, slaying French by three organ guns which made a clamour of warriors managed to reach the English line, knights. The first charge had been a complete Undaunted by the initial failure, France's on the English line, putting particular pressure Black Prince was almost killed. Almost surrounded Black Prince sent for help from his father, boy win his spurs, for I want him, please however, the king did send twenty handpicked the Black Prince's contingent had already recovering before the enemy returned. Bohemia John ordered his knights to tie their battle. This charge began well, managing to cut down by the English infantry. The French each becoming more disorganised and hopeless Philip VI himself joined the fighting. He one horse killed under him before the battle was unfolding, one of the Valois king's so reluctantly, fleeing with what was left then all the way to Amiens. not realising just how much of a terrible had lost less than a hundred men, while Philip and knights. Death no position to chase Philip, he had gained After having buried the French princes who north, sacking the countryside and the unwalled Close to allied Flanders, easy to resupply Calais was seen as the best gateway to enter the siege of the town on the 4th September and Jean de Vienne. A great encampment was were constructed around the main pathways starve out the city, while reinforcement and with a huge operation of transport of food into the interior. Meanwhile, taking advantage of the French now Earl of Lancaster, expanded the English a three-pronged attack into the French heartland to sow confusion in Paris. Lancaster led north of Poitiers and other nearby towns, before good news for the English came that a Scottish at Neville's Cross near Durham in October, had been captured. The attack on two fronts completely paralyzed front to concentrate. The successes in disturbing military action was postponed. The siege of neither side being able to gain the upper men by sea, while Edward launched numerous by canons and stone-throwers. Desertion and Philip raised his banners in the spring, but men to advance. In the meantime, Edward had starving the city of resources. The French the English from the north but two vanguards having the situation in Calais become desperate, outskirts of the siege, the French army found to relieve the town: Philip had to give up remain in English hands until 1558. In September by this point, both sides were exhausted. at Crecy and his capture of Calais a year most timid of all the uncouth races', were warriors of Europe. Nevertheless, such glory massive cost convinced the king to withdraw the Truce of Calais was agreed on September he celebrated the Crecy campaign with a tournament displayed to all Edward's subjects as a Over the channel in France, the mood of Philip In December, the Valois king was castigated defeat and wasn't allowed to raise taxes. of capitulation to the English forced France's they would fund a great invasion of England issued and preparations began. By the start and local officials had begun assessing towns as though the full-scale war was about to was about to ensure that this would never The deadly Yersinia pestis, which previously to eighth centuries, originated in Central east and west on the medieval silk road until besieged the Black Sea city of Caffa in 1346, and he ordered that diseased corpses be catapulted citizens began fleeing west by sea to Europe, appearing in Italy near the end of 1347, the its thriving Mediterranean ports2 and then England in mid 1348. It was the greatest demographic perished, from the highest noble to the lowliest apart and the tax base collapsed. Overall, Europe might have been killed by this first believed that the world itself was ending. money from the first plague wave stalled the tried to recover from the disaster. In late the devastated, plague-ridden kingdom to his as Jean II. If that wasn't bad enough, a - which had been threatening Edward's trade by the English at Winchelsea. back and forth diplomacy was the order of countrymen continued to intervene in the ongoing War. In fact in Brittany the situation had changed had been captured and his forces annihilated but lack of soldiers and the subsequent plague was a series of small conflicts between the the 26th of March 1351 a duel was agreed upon and the English commander Robert of Bamborough. took place between the castles of Josselin knights and men at arms against each other. had lost eight men and were forced to surrender, for the start and outcome of the duel eludes outcome of the war, but the event became subject one of the better known episodes of chivalric In 1352 a French army under de Nesle entered lieutenant Sir Walter Bentley. The two armies of August 1352: the English, less than one hill with a hedgerow in their back - archers the center: they refused to surrender when greatly his adversaries, sent his cavalry men at arms attacked the other two units. through the archers who fled and opening up While the men at arms desperately held on on the left repelled their assailants who their companions. The English center counterattacked to retreat, who were picked off by the English sides but were especially catastrophic for great number of Breton knights loyal to the Charles of Blois made an agreement with King Duke of Brittany, Charles would pay a huge neutral in the war. Although the agreement under English influence for the following claimants remained. In 1353, the English king announced that he throne in return for all of Aquitaine 'as suzerainty over Flanders. Jean II accepted possibly having been playing for time. The correspondence with the maverick King of Navarre grandson of Louis X, had an even greater claim Emboldened by his new English ally, Charles enemy - the Franco-Castilian Constable of II had given him the great county of Angouleme his personal property. Hungry for vengeance, his own estates3 in Normandy, where the unfortunate king then proudly proclaimed - "Know that of Spain!". Jean II was furious that his by his fear of encirclement by Edward III good claim to the throne of France. Aiming kings made a tentative peace in 1355, but Seeking to take advantage, Edward III decided worst effects of plague had receded. Also of the Gascon nobility4 sailed north to attend brought bad news and asked for assistance. in Gascony had been under continuous attack - Count of Armagnac Jean I. The incursions Armagnac forces were encamped only a few days' The understrength Gascons needed help, so Woodstock to raise an army and sail to southern The Black Prince and his 2,700 professional 1355 and absorbed further 4,000 Gascon reinforcements king ordered a general mobilisation of forces. kingdom. Around October 5th, the Black Prince's known as one of the greatest chevauchees columns to maximise destruction, the raiding east, crossing the River Gers and entering began mercilessly slaughtering every living that would burn and smashing everything that not assist the French war effort for years Armagnac, remained in fortified Toulouse as two nearby rivers and arrived at Carcassonne the Black Prince with 250,000 gold coins, moving on, reaching Narbonne on the Mediterranean outer city and agricultural hinterland, the Gascony, shadowed by, but not challenged by minor casualties, this great raid had destroyed Jean II's tax revenue and doomed his military With his soldiers billeted along Gascony's the winter with administrative and governmental feudals and internal disputes within the Gascon embarked on small-scale military expeditions, said to have retaken 30 fortifications during chevauchee enjoyed and the fresh reinforcements Gascony made it clear that a second assault The prince departed northeast from Bergerac first at Perigueux and then Ramefort, Brantome, all within 10 days of setting off. Despite in its wake, when the Black Prince's army to do no damage at all, as it belonged to After leaving Bellec, the English started population began to fight back. Nevertheless, to take the fortified city, moving on after army was nearing Vierzon, a flying column party and took a few prisoners. From them rallying a massive army and was about to march To see why Jean had been delayed so much we'll 1356, where events in the north of France Since his tenuous peace with the French king, concessions from the monarch by intentionally to Edward III, thereby increasing Jean's this time the Navarrese king pushed his luck 'Dauphin' Charles, made king Jean paranoid So, in April 1356 the French king stormed conspirators and imprisoned Charles. This brother Philip and the King of England, which confiscate Navarrese holdings in northern Battle of Poitiers (1356) by besieging the town of Breteuil, a move threats were materialising to the north and destructive chevauchee, while Normandy itself This was designed to split French attention a few of Philip's besieged castles, Lancaster distraction tactics. To his credit, at this After a month of his pointless siege of Breteuil, required his immediate attention, and concluded With that done, the Valois king marched to The Prince of Wales learned of this during Vierzon, and realised that he was about to Knowing that he had to get back to friendly started withdrawing west along the Cher River, Romorantin and a further four days waiting attempt to link up with him. All of this gave up with the Black Price's plunder-laden La Haye his enemy was only a day's march Jean, using his better knowledge of the area, and then cross at Chauvigny with a cavalry-heavy he'd been overtaken on the 16th he tried the next day between outriders at La Chabotrie flight. The battle was inevitable. nearby forest. They emerged the next day and front of the French, who had spent the night great medieval hosts which had done battle off near Poitiers in late September 1356 were plague and war exhaustion. Edward of Woodstock's made up of just over 6,000 troops - 1,000 English men-at-arms including mounted knights longbowmen wielding their infamous ranged mixed divisions of 1,500 soldiers each on about a thousand remained in a rearguard reserve. army had 3,000 infantry and 8,000 mounted dismount due to Jean's fear of a second of several hundred remained on their steeds. right commanded by Marshal Arnoul d'Audrehem, cavalry and more missile units under Marshal knights and peasant infantry were arrayed of the other. They were led, from front to - Duke of Orleans and King Jean II himself As the two armies faced off, a French Cardinal and was met with the frosty response "Say The prelate argued for a peace for the sake wasted should the battle break out. Despite about fighting a pitched battle and was willing Jean II demanded unconditional surrender, the French commanders Audrehem and Clermont unusual amount of movement and believed the an intentional ruse. Not willing to let the cavalry towards Warwick's left, while Clermont towards Salisbury's right. The former's resisted English arrow fire and crashed into damage on the first line. However, when longbowmen left wing and began to loose volley after turned into a massacre. French knights were own steeds or routed, while the marshal himself the field Clermont's horsemen charged up were funnelled into a narrow open section There, the bunched-up cavalry suffered terrible did were engaged by Salisbury's dismounted were thrown back. followed behind in good order along the entire themselves through the hedge's gaps and whilst doing so. Those who broke through met fighting which lasted two hours, but were nothing to show for it. As the Dauphin's that his son be escorted from the field in a disastrous move. The Dauphin's withdrawal second line of infantry, to leave the battlefield Advancing with a battle-axe in hand, Jean in front and infantry behind, up the ridge With the Black Prince's archers running closed with the English almost unscathed, division outnumbering the nevertheless stubborn ran out of arrows, they left their positions their comrades in the melee. At the combat's 200 reserve cavalry and led them in a wide raised the flag of St. George and then charged Prince withdrew some of his dismounted knights knight called Sir James Audley lead them to The remnant of Jean's army scattered in them towards a marsh called the Champ d'Alexandre, In the chaos, the King of France was surrounded He refused to give himself up to common soldiers, and formally took Jean prisoner. All in all, - probably around a hundred or two, the French and many other nobles. Around 3,000 were also himself, who was led to the Black Prince with Treaty of Bretigny (1360) and end of Edwardian When the Black Prince removed his royal Valois anchor which kept the ship of state afloat. in his book 'A Great and Glorious Adventure' civil war'. The three years following Poitiers Rabid discontent with the government spread Third Estate even asserted its authority under Marcel. This wasn't the end of it. Demobilised England, Gascony, France and even further routiers - or 'free companies'. These lawless countryside almost at will, serving setting themselves up as robber barons in for decades to come. it didn't do France any good. Extortionate swathe of highborn prisoners taken at Poitiers enflamed the peasants into a revolt. A horrific in the Oise Valley, with peasants lynching hands on. The uprising lasted for weeks before Threatened by another large assault by Edward of Bretigny in October 1360 - giving the Plantagenets for the English king's renunciation of his to a PS600,000 ransom for Jean's return. Jean II was allowed to return to France. However, to the agreement, which prompted the French in exchange for the younger Valois. He finally by Charles V. (1364) by an important success. Following the death the duchy had returned to the crownland and the Bold. Another pretender to the duchy was ignored. Insulted by this snub and harbouring previous years of unsuccessful scheming, he of Captal de Buch. The army departed from 1364 for Normandy, traversing the lands of threaten Paris and have the title assigned young king had an army to deal with routiers of a minor Breton nobleman, Bertrand du Guesclin. guerilla commander in Brittany in the previous had taken place there in the previous decade. many of the Navarrese positions in Normandy, de Buch arrived in Evreux, he hastily called routiers, assembling an army of around 2000 They marched out of Evreux towards the town 1200 men on foot in front of a bridge near camp and waited for two days for either side began to retreat over the bridge, probably Seeing this and not wanting to let his foes to blockade the bridge while the rest of his body of the royal army. Having a numbers advantage, French men supported by Gascon and Breton had not joined initially the fray smashed their lines and forcing them to retreat, leaving The victory came three days before the coronation the power of Charles the Bad, who following to seriously threaten the French crown. Most and peace was reached in 1365 after a small-scale Breton Civil War (1356-1365) and Battle of Meanwhile, in Brittany, the conflict was coming Charles of Blois had been trembling. Charles in 1356, but in the same year, after the Battle by the Duke of Lancaster, who attempted to by a young Bertrand du Guesclin. The English son of the previous claimant John who had swore fealty to Edward in exchange for the the civil war up again in 1362, where Charles was followed by a short truce in 1363 where in 1364, John of Monfort besieged the coastal in Brittany and at the French court, Charles the town. John of Monfort fielded around 2000 men, many and Navarese men who had come to recover their army numbered in the three to four thousand, and his Breton companies. On the 29th of September up for battle. The English placed themselves dividing themselves into three divisions with deployed his army into three battle divisions talks were held to resolve the conflict. It concessions to his adversaries which delighted and du Guesclin insisted on fighting. Right before the battle commenced a large deserted. The English-Breton left wing clashed Jean de Chalon which caused his side to collapse was still attempting to reorganise his division. to follow their compatriots and left the pretender upon by Monfort and Chandos. In the melee, which caused the definitive route of the rest The defeat was complete for the Blois faction, de Guesclin who was ransomed for 100.000 francs. All the Blois supporters submitted soon after Guerande was ratified which put an end to his homage to Charles V for the duchy, while to keep her lands in the duchy for herself for the English-supported faction, the lack needed the support of their previous guardians, peninsula slowly declined. Castilian Civil War (1350-1373) and Battle Following the end of the two civil wars, Charles the Treaty of Bretigny was in effect. To do as an ally, Charles decided to intervene in To understand the situation in the region, when the King of Castile Alfonso the Eleventh son Pedro, who was under the strong influence noble Alburquerque in the first years of his his favourite Leonora de Guzman, who bore ascended the throne Leonora was executed in Crown. The illegitimate children of Alfonso, shortly rebelled a few times against Pedro exploded, led now by Alburquerque and Henry and captured the king, but internal disagreements effort, as Pedro escaped from captivity and In 1356 war broke out between the Kingdoms known as the War of the Two Peters, officially but in reality, it was a conflict fomented in its rival and wished to conquer the disputed against Ibiza, in 1357 Pedro moved into Aragon and occupied the town of Tarazona. After the conflict slowed soon down, where some short operations and sieges along the border, where expelled and repopulated with Castilian settlers, organized by the exiled brother of Pedro, were defeated at the Battle of Araviana, but large swaths of Aragonese land and a Castilian came to threaten Barcelona. Pedro's ally Muhammad V, the Castillian his conquests in Aragon. Pedro then moved the throne, and in 1362 he broke the truce and once again Castille occupied much of western Valencia in 1364. Meanwhile, the s and French Blanche of Bourbon, cousin of John II, in had abandoned her for another woman and imprisoned in mysterious circumstances. Also in 1362 alliance. and Aragonese to move the many routiers out for the pro-English Castillian kingdom. Henry an expedition into Iberia, with the Breton in command of the routiers that the expedition Papal support using the pretext of a crusade the final goal. routiers of all ethnicities and French noblemen Aragon by the end of the year. They followed countryside in the process. In February 1366 Calveley retook the Castilian-occupied towns the whole army traversed the southern tip Castilian town of Calahorra, where Henry was who expected Navarre to close its borders Soria, saw his cause collapse and he fled Soon after Henry entered Burgos and from there where the royal treasury had been captured among his ranks, who were dismissed except The attack on the Black Prince's ally had relief army had been formed in time. In August Navarra where an agreement was reached: Gascony throne and Navara would allow free passage. of the whole expedition and cede the Basque heterogenous army of around 10000 to 8000 had participated in de Guesclin's expedition and entered Castille. Henry's position was been just 12 months before: he had dismissed and his treasury was exhausted. Many towns of his arrival filtered from Gascony. The the main approach to Burgos, the old capital land was barren and hard to forage on, so road barred by the Trasmara army. After a Prince moved south and encamped at the town the town of Najera. Going against his military advisors, Henry stop the haemorrhaging of support in his lines: his enemies and left his entrenched position one behind the smaller stream Yalde. The following Logrono and encamped at Navarrette. The invading at arms, formed up as follows: the vanguard Sir Chandos, where 3000 English and Gascon located. Both wings, approximately 2000 men of the Count of Foix, who was also in command by the Count of Armagnac and Lord of d'Albret main body under the Black Prince himself numbered English knights, other routiers, and companies Castilian defectors and Aragonese outcasts. The Castilian army was only around 4500 men, arms under de Guesclin and other French routiers. army had a vanguard with the French men at who fought dismounted and a handful of missile it was the main body under Henry composed A group of 1000 light cavalry was placed on of another 1000 men from Aragon under the On the third of April, at dawn, the Black Instead of taking the main road as his opponents ridge and fell upon his unprepared enemies The first to react to this was de Guesclin, men to confront the enemies. While his contingent the Castilian infantry and part of the light commander ordered them to charge out of their vanguard, where the fresher defenders found found their footing and the battle devolved Don Tello, brother of Henry, tried to come were met by the arrows of the enemy right by the hail of missiles and the attack became Henry tried the same with the remaining cavalry, then against the main body where their horses army fell upon the Trastamaran vanguard. Isolated, while the main Castilian body who did not routed and massacred as they attempted to half of his army was killed, while the English French-Castilian command was taken captive, not Henry himself, who managed to flee to Following the victory, Pedro swiftly reoccupied delayed the cession of the Basque provinces which crippled the Gascon finances for decades been anticipated by Edward himself: he could summer. It did not take long for the French in September 1367 he traversed the Pyrenees the Kingdom, where many nobles flocked to of Pedro who had suffered his vengeful wrath. by the end of April 1368, he laid siege to army to the valley of Guadalquivir, close he unsuccessfully besieges the town of Cordoba, 1369 Henry was once again joined by de Guesclin the besieged capital: he moved north to join He was surprised by the forces of Henry and the 14th of March 1369, where his forces were with few followers. Here he attempted to bribe but instead the Breton led the king out of accompanied into a tent and met face to face began to wrestle each other with their knives Henry could be crowned king of Casile. In the French fleet in the Atlantic with his cause. While the Civil War between the two subdue internal rebels, especially in Galicia, a number of pretenders, such as the King of in 1369-70 and in 1372-73, and John of Gaunt, eldest daughter Costanza to claim the throne of strengthening the alliance between France between Castille against Portugal and Navarre which ended the conflict with Aragon was signed Start of Caroline Phase the late 1360s, he was growing ill from a rule in Aquitaine was creating discontent the lands gained at Bretigny. To pay for his Aquitaine's overlord had been imposing harsh another fouage - or 'hearth tax' in 1368, revolted, petitioning Charles V for assistance Technically Charles no longer had sovereignty Treaty of Bretigny as an excuse to receive confiscate English possessions in France during by Edward III, Charles V was eager for revenge immediately, seizing the thinly defended counties - smaller, mobile contingents of soldiers been defeated at Crecy and Poitiers. Charles battle with the English, wary of suffering again. Limoges (1370) being attacked, Edward III's son John of before withdrawing back to Calais not long captain called Sir Robert Knolles was contracted The English columns, composed of different a devastating raid from Calais in August and, approaching Paris from the southeast. Again, the English in open battle and realising he eye to eye. France's Valois king made the de Guesclin the new Constable of France. The began to pillage in lower Normandy while the again met up around Vendome and Tour where other English routiers. Bertrand de Guesclin to meet Knolles' 4,000, while another army Bickering among the English officers on where the greater contingent headed for Brittany, parts. But it was too late: unbeknownst to had marched out of Caen and swiftly reached the army at Vendome approached from the east. Hearing of the English positions, the Breton were exhausted, and at the dawn of the fourth the 4000, reached the village of Pontvallain. under the command of Sir Grandison, completely and some of his men tried to form a line and they were caught and overwhelmed by 300 French Most of Grandison's contingent, numbering captured. A second English contingent under Abbey of Vaas. Beneath its walls, Fitzwalter from the east, who were soon joined by Guescelin's defeated their enemies and stormed the abbey, fourth English contingent managed to enter they attempted to return to England in the while the survivors of the Battles of Pontvallain The victory at Pontvallain gave a great morale the English in a pitched battle. V's brother, the Duke of Anjou, continued Limousin and Buzac, with many local lords and going over to the Valois. The now-ailing of his lords and reacted violently when the - betrayed the town to the French. Limoges, he marched there, and a five-day began. It was noted that part of the wall were excavated underground to reach the wall. and managed to enter the enemy mines, but combat. On the 19th of September 1370, the ablaze, causing the mine to collapse and, seized the opportunity and the city was stormed to the town. eldest son, the Black Prince went home to of Gaunt in charge of Aquitaine. Meanwhile, 1371 securing the many castles that were occupied of the previous years and continued the campaign while John of Gaunt recaptured some towns was plagued by disastrous finances and the as the Earl of Warwick and Sir Chandos, who the following year. In late 1371, Limoges province remained under the control of English and the Duke of Berry began the recapture Battle of la Rochelle (1372) and so he sent the Earl of Pembroke3 to Aquitaine were larger battle-worthy vessels with archery As Pembroke was approaching La Rochelle harbour was confronted by a smaller fleet of Castilian to arrive. Castile's ships launched their with the outnumbering but outmatched English, craft. Nevertheless, Pembroke's meagre number well, laying down a precise rain of arrows spear-wielding men-at-arms managed to bravely dusk, when the fleets separated. Pembroke while the Castilians waited just off La Rochelle nervous - they couldn't escape because the nor could they pass through the treacherous However, some Poitevin knights and their retinues night. Pembroke kept his ships anchored, not However, the Castilian ships used their shallower were still immobile, spraying their decks with flaming arrows. This was the end of the Iberian ally - many English were burned alive, himself was taken prisoner. English naval its end at La Rochelle, and a planned expedition Following the disaster at La Rochelle, the capitulated in the summer, as did many castles Port-Saint-Marie, while La Rochelle itself the Saintogne and Angoumois fell to the French. Niort were defeated by the Constable at the of resistance in Poitou to surrender. Clisson had brought John of Montfort to ally French army arrived under the walls of Rennes English had managed to create a foothold in to dislodge them. Losing their patience, the 1373, and Monfort left for England, leaving of the English. men out from Calais on the so-called 'Great swathe of Picardy, Champagne and Burgundy. where the harsh winter conditions killed many in December. Nevertheless, the French did instead harassing John's vulnerable supply columns that strayed too far: only half of This effectively limited the damage, and even away from Aquitaine, by the close of 1373 control. In the summer of 1374, a truce was which brought to peace talks which took place of Burgundy and John of Gaunt. While these both in Aquitaine, where de Geusclin was mopping among them, and the English routiers base siege, in the first siege where cannons were men led by John of Monfort landed in Brittany, managed to encircle the Breton nobility that about to surrender, news came from Bruge. hostilities were to be halted, while current could do nothing but let his foes go and leave territory in France had been reduced to its Between 1376 and '77, the truce mostly held in Gascony nearly broke down the peace talks was called, where many of the grievances that came to light, and a commission was set up the demands of the Parliament were overturned following year, becoming increasingly unpopular the two countries was about to expire, disaster Death of the Black Prince and Edward III a great loss. The bedridden Black Prince - formerly first, followed the year after by his legendary of half a century, widely viewed as a golden was Richard II - the second son of the Black true authority would be wielded by a regency after Richard II's coronation, the boy king's raids on its channel ports. From Rye in the led by a talented knight and admiral called sea to viciously plunder and loot. an unsuccessful attack against the heavily a few castles, he was forced away by the inhospitable the Duke of Anjou advanced in Perigord, retook up till Saint-Macaire before the arrival of their hold in Brittany and occupying Cherbourg, on the French north coast from where to launch like Calais had been used in the previous Schism took place, splitting the union of In late 1378, the Bretton Duchy was officially of Monfort of treason. The Duchy was already, following their invasion in the previous years, of the great Breton nobles that had supported Blois. They recalled John IV of Monfort from control of nearly all his duchy without a between the French and the Bretons, the latter them free passage through their territory Earl of Buckingham and fifth son of Edward 6000 men that was meant to reinforce the Gascon the same route that John of Gaunt and Robert a month, they reached the great town of Troyes been concentrated under the Duke of Burgundy, surveying the battlefield, he thought against Woodstock moved west, followed by the Duke, 16th of September, Charles V suffered a stroke De Geusclin, who had died in July. The French commenced in Paris while the English arrived besieged the French-held city of Nantes from John IV of Montfort was meant to help the V, he came to an agreement with the Parisian with the same freedoms he had before the confiscation breaking of all ties with the English. The operations to a halt. End of Caroline Phase when, in mid-September 1380, Charles V 'the held his kingdom together in its darkest hour died of an illness. He left the crown to the his minority. This situation gave the king's blood,' an opportunity to form a regency Bourbon and Burgundy. The Duke of Burgundy was captured with Jean II at Poitiers in 1356, in the fifteenth century. Unfortunately for opportunity to exploit their positions to maintained treasury of Charles V. Also England was rocked by rebellions caused and 1379, two "poll taxes" had been raised person in the realm. In 1381, a third one it, peasant rebellions broke out in Essex of Wat Tyler, a tiler, and John Ball, a priest. who were accused of collaborating with the were seen as the culprits of the bad governance on the 11th of June, where the lower classes collaborators barricaded themselves in the to discuss terms with the rebels two days but the rebels would not talk unless he landed. prisons and destroyed the property of those palace. On the 14th, the king rode out to Here, their demands were known, which consisted most laws and taxations, the execution of latest taxation increases, and the abolishment all men equal under the King. Richard was hoping to disperse some of the peasant's the Tower, which had its drawbridge lowered, Hales and the Archbishop of Canterbury were and foreigners. As the appeasement strategy had not worked, The following day, the king, with a 200-strong with them at Smithfield, where the peasant As the king asked Wat Tyler why his men had including redistribution of land and confiscation altercation broke out, which degenerated into London Walworth, and he barely managed to to shoot their bows against the retinue, but in a nearby field. The peasants, not desiring before that could happen, 2000 men drawn from higher classes of London surrounded them. to their homes, while the ringleaders, including retook control of the situation. The death in other regions of England, except for a While the King and his government were once effect of reducing the willingness of the king's ability to wage war. In 1379, the region of Flanders had been hit the Low Countries had for a few decades been the rule of the Count Louis de Male. However, towns declined, which brought discontent among society. In September 1379, a revolt sparked of Flanders, either by local revolts or occupation. Louis able to retake control of the county the town of Ghent, which held out. After a a harsh blockade of the city was enacted, In the region, nobles and knights supported Ghent, creating a polarisation in the Low As the town was about to surrender in January guild took power and rejected the peace terms, guild and grain importers who supported the Artevelde attempted a daring assault on Bruge, they defeated an inebriated Brugeois army the occupation of the city with the help of defeat, who barely escaped the city pursued Flemish-speaking towns revolted once again, of Ghent. was initially destined to attack Gascony, rebels, much to the joy of the Duke of Burgundy, and sole heiress of Louis of Flanders. The Oliver de Clisson and accompanied by a young men, 2000 of them Burgundian. Around 6500 1200 archers and crossbowmen. Accompanying others from the Low Countries under Louis to 40.000 flemish men, the majority of them safe for a few hundred English archers and where they had besieged this stronghold of from Arras on the 12th of November towards who attempted to take control of one of the was brutally repelled. Only when the French the river after a strongly contested crossing. while smaller towns were brutally sacked. the French, and on the 26th of November, he or Roosebeke in French. Positioned on a high dug a trench and positioned themselves behind was just 6 miles south of this position, and Once they were at the feet of the hill, the mist cleared, they charged up, where they mass of Flemish footmen managed to keep their of iron-clad men, much better than their counterparts shot forced the French centre to retreat, the enemies, crashing into their defenceless to envelop the flanks of the townsfolk, the fleeing through the French lines, while their soldiers gave chase to the fleeing Flemings, were brutally cut down. Once the battle ended, Van Artevelde being one of the casualties, by their companions as they attempted to flee, were executed. The defeat at Roosebeke ended the rebels' were punished, either sacked or forced to to the throne, though under heavy French influence. an English expedition which came under the of the Avignon pope in the framework of the Calais in the spring of 1383, and they attempted up on the arrival of a French relief force. more years when they would reach an agreement the Duke of Burgundy Philip the Bold, who of the Battle of Roosebeke were also felt the King and the princes of blood curtailed the previous years against war taxation, and instead of being agreed upon with the local Change of regimes (1385-1414) After a few years of truce, in 1385, hostilities planned in the late spring from Scotland and from Sluys. The English knew this and prepared fleet, but this had little success. The French where he launched a combined assault into of Wark by storm while the Scotsmen watched. on how to conduct the war, as the Scots were main prize was cattle, while the French hoped of English resources for the defence of the the split of the army, where the French continued along the coast down til Morpeth, where their of a large English force under Richard himself, invasion from Scotland brought to the French could hardly supply a Scottish army, let alone from Scotland would be attempted. In 1386, John of Gaunt attempted another invasion local success, but it managed to distract against England in 1386 and '87. The English trade fleets. By 1388, both sides had exhausted up as internal conflict began to brew in both The political situation had changed again kings asserted their independent rule. In rule, dismissing the Valois magnates from them with a group of his father's old advisors well and the people began to call their king the English Channel Richard II's reign descended of the fourteenth-century. While the king French, his internal problems began to get of Gaunt's son - Henry Bolingbroke, was threat. The former didn't react to his son's II both extended his banishment for life and Rubicon had been crossed. Henry Bolingbroke in June, and almost immediately most of Richard's actions. Richard - who had travelled to Ireland and died a few months later in prison, while of England when its usurping patriarch came The reign of Lancastrian usurper-king Henry rebellions sprang up to resist his rule, first years later by a disaffected member of the was closest to the rebels, the king's sixteen-year-old Welsh and Percy forces from uniting with one the royalist victory at Shrewsbury in 1403, flank and winning the battle. It was just prince would display in the future. Despite the first decade of the fifteenth-century also began to suffer from numerous illnesses him more and more incapable of ruling his of England would increasingly fall to the early stage was noted as a diligent administrator As the new royal House of Lancaster was solidifying in France were busy destroying any unity the decades earlier, twenty-five year-old Charles through a forest, and from that point descended himself to be made of glass. This deficiency would bring disaster to France. Louis I - Duke his elder brother's fall to madness, continuing his own wealth and power on the side. As the of a Valois 'prince du sang' or 'prince highest nobility in France. The main victim Valois-Burgundy, Dukes of Burgundy since the II granted the vacant Duchy as a fief to his that son had subsequently been the dominant death in 1404 the powerful Duchy of Burgundy2, in the north, passed to John the Fearless. bull-headed man of unprepossessing appearance, from his less-than-perfect personality, he experience was extensive, culminating in his of Nicopolis, while his excellent administrative as a capable deputy during times of need. the kingdom began between John the Fearless violent. The two men clashed on almost every supported the pope in Rome and opposed continued to trade in Flanders, Orleans deferred to the conflict. Factions began to develop around followed Louis and Burgundians rallied to both groups of supporters in the capital city over when, on November 23rd 1407, the Duke bludgeoned to death on a Paris street by assassins the Dukedom and, advised by the late Louis' an oath of vengeance against the Duke of Burgundy. 'Armagnac' and 'Burgundian' factions power in Paris by means of a coup d'etat, by the Armagnacs in 1411, led by the Duke assistance, the Duke of Burgundy sent envoys in Flanders and other concessions in return troops under the Earl of Arundel ventured returning home. Paris' civilians, and in 1413 the Duke was in his own vast domains while the Armagnacs for them, time had run out. In England, Henry of 1413 and was succeeded by his son, who snowstorm raged outside of Westminster Abbey. behavior upon coming to the throne. From an wine, women and quarrelling with his father, himself with gravitas and level-headedness, He gathered worthy, incorruptible advisors engaged personally in ensuring justice in and whenever he could. Yet, he also delved capable of extraordinary brutality when he old friend John Oldcastle plotted to kidnap burned alive. Above all, however, was Henry of the English royal family in France. It the truce for long. In late 1414, a grand embassy was sent to Henry's demands were extremely high. The and England's stolen territories in Aquitaine, than that, any outstanding funds from Jean with an additional PS330,000, the annexation of Brittany, Flanders, Beaufort and Nogent. lost English lands in France, but such untenable Whatever the case, the French did indeed reject With his rejection the dauphin of France - Louis gift, arrogantly stating to the ambassadors he was young, little balls to play with and to manly strength'. In response, Henry stated thought to lie abed with soft pillows, then them from their slumbers by hammering on their out to raise the largest English army since troops in various regions around the kingdom a soldier and the man he served under. It disciplinary practices, pay grades and other in England was becoming more professionalised. own fiefs and Henry himself even drew warriors and South Wales. Overall, the army which gathered a large archer contingent. executing its ringleaders, Henry V and his 11th 1415 in around 700 ships. The king himself ton flagship known as Le Trinite. The armada and disembarked near Chef du Caux at the mouth Siege of Harfleur (1415) through the area as his royal predecessors Harfleur and set up his base at the priory garrison to capitulate soon. The town had been reinforced in the expectation of an English and the local commander, the Lord of Estouteville, the harbour with chained ships. The river the plain north of the town and giving time with 300 men at arms, bolstering the defenders' crossbowmen and the local town folks who joined up position to the west of the town on the Duke of Clarence, Thomas, to the east, but in position only two days later, while the the town by sea. Henry summoned Harfleur to the siege began. The English set up their defences, protected by wooded shields and their outer position as long as they could by the artillery, and during the night, the They launched sorties to keep the enemy cannons mines, deep tunnels dug underneath the defences by French countermines. The defenders also Lezarde, forcing some of the English to fall attackers managed to creep up on the outer at point-blank range. By the end of August, the water level and depriving the defenders most of Harfleur's outer defences were destroyed, supplies were running out, but still the French English assaults on the breaches in the walls Finally, by the 15th of September, the defenders if a French army would not arrive to relieve assembling it and it wasn't ready to march, on the agreed date - its 260 surviving members would be kept for ransom. Still, the unexpectedly held off the English king for six weeks, during of malaria and dysentery, which eventually troops. Battle of Agincourt (1415) army of about 20,000 men was slowly gathering the English. Henry V wasn't the only thing declared himself eager to join the fight against detrimental, as it would only cause divisions of Burgundy to send 800 troops instead of and he instead refused to send any assistance. 'Armagnac' French leaders would have to rumoured that he was collaborating with the put King Henry into a predicament. It was could not just sail back to England without marching towards Bordeaux as he had intended, and an attack on the capital might forcibly decided that the army would head immediately same steps through 'his' lands in Normandy III had. the English army set out on its march, intending The trek started well enough and rivers near all changed on the 13th. As Henry's army at Blanchetaque, where the king planned to him that an advance guard of 6,000 French and ready to block any attempt to cross. Realising Henry pivoted right and marched upstream, other side of the bank. After managing to managed to cross at Nesle, but it was already army under Bourbon5 cut across the Somme at near Peronne. The tired English, wracked by depleted of supplies continued marching north, there, as Henry's army crossed a tributary sight. Drawn up on a slightly elevated ridge French army - rank after rank of magnificent led the English king to draw up in battle standoff, the French pulled back even further position on the road to Calais near a small On the night of October 24th, Henry ordered the French could be heard rejoicing and celebrating which both sides lined up on the following field in an area between the village of Agincourt in the south, bounded by forested terrain army was now about 8,500 strong and severely and only 1,500 dismounted knights and men-at-arms. in a single line of battle. In the centre known as 'battles', with units of longbowmen the command of the veteran Baron of Camoys, while Henry V took control of the central on both the left and right flanks, with a of the field. The archers were under the authority protected by a defensive wall of stakes and On the other side of the field, a grand French nominal, but insecure dual command of Constable professional men whose relatively low birth such as the Dukes of Orleans, Alencon and lines of battle - the first and second comprising and men-at arms for use as a sledgehammer archers and crossbowmen were kept in the rear battle, not mere bow-wielding peasants. On of around 750 knights each was in the process trickling into the French army as time went Having learned the harsh lesson from their did not charge right away and instead remained and Boucicaut that while their enemy's army would get even stronger. Whatever its merits, chafed at this 'cowardly' strategy of to attack him, Henry V knew he had to make after conferring with his captains the king and slowly shift forward in an orderly manner, lets go!" After advancing into longbow range, after which English archers immediately began out in front. This withering arrow fire panicked they now charged full-tilt at Henry's line9. and draw their bowstrings back and then commanded knights - drawn from the very best horsemen the soaking mud of the field, Erpinham shouted at point blank range from the front and treeline. of knights and their horses were struck and arrows. Those who did manage to get through back to their own lines. While the massacre of peasants and cavalry led by a few Burgundian the king's bedding, his crates of cash and the course of the battle until later. trudging with difficulty through often knee-deep cavalry charge. A combination of the bad terrain, by their own retreating cavalry left the French English longbowmen, who loosed volley after horrific losses. Despite the setbacks, the into the thin English line like a tidal wave equally stubborn men-at-arms under Henry halted point of contact, the second line of infantry a crush upon nearing the vanguard which prevented troops from retreating. Though the French taking a mauling. In the right division, Edward fighting, while Henry V himself was almost When the archers on the flanks ran out of whatever weapons they could find to assist French attack collapsed, and the English took the Dukes of Bourbon, Orleans and Marshal At that moment, someone in the English formation perhaps having seen the looters at the camp captives they had taken, it was plausible equipment, along with fresh foes might doom ordered 200 archers to go to the camp and had taken captive. With thousands dead on slaughtered in the din of battle, the terrified That night, King Henry V of England made the on his feasting table, before reaching Calais As Henry V sailed from Calais in late 1415, With the royal army destroyed and much of civil war appeared as though it was only going king didn't bask in his success for long troops, and assembling a great navy for a time depriving the divided enemy kingdom of Holy Roman Emperor Sigismund arrived in England with Henry at Canterbury and denouncing France the Franco-Genoese fleet in 14164 and 14175, By the middle of that year, Henry had his time going to conquer it entirely. On September after a short siege. No relief was anywhere have assisted was busy facing off against Norman capital at Rouen. Henry put France's and, after a brutal siege lasting over half With that, almost every other castle in the decade, Normandy was under English control Treaty of Troyes (1420) both the Armagnacs and Burgundians. Despite they realised such a full conquest wouldn't to be done, both John the Fearless and France's to negotiate. However, when the Duke of Burgundy accompanying Charles suddenly came forward for Louis of Orleans' death over a decade for France. As Francis I stated a century dead duke - "This is the hole through which of the kingdom burst into uproar or panic but when the news reached his son and heir himself on his bed, teeth grinding in grief the new Duke of Burgundy formed an alliance English king's claim to the throne of France, were enlarged and secure. This was the last tired of civil war, the barely lucid Charles 1420. Henry V would be heir and regent of - Catherine of Valois, and their child would After capturing a few more towns loyal to before going back to England and crowning Thomas - Duke of Clarence was defeated and which convinced Brittany to defect to the Henry returned to France and took a few castles Meaux to siege. It was there that King Henry with the troops, which he did until the city the king fell deeper into sickness and began Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester regent in England lead in France in the name of the newborn perhaps the greatest in the country's history the age of just 35. The mad king Charles VI son declared himself the king. Nevertheless, Anglo-Burgundian rule, while his son only court. In 1423, the Treaty of Amiens was signed, Duchy of Brittany and the Kingdom of England It was sealed with Bedford marrying Anne, allegiance of Brittany would sway with the July 1423, as the English were fortifying besieging strongholds loyal to Charles, an a large contingent of Scots and smaller Italian Louis of Vendome marched through the territories and to threaten Paris. They were defeated under Salisbury with the help of Burgundian the west, where an English raiding army was local Norman garrisons loyal to Charles. Scottish soldiers under the Earl of Douglas dauphin. As the campaigning season began with in August, the dauphin's army under the count to relieve it from a siege. As it became clear position was too strong for a direct attack, Verneuil, where reinforcements from Italy joined them on the 17th of August, furious Ivre as previously agreed upon. The English number of them being Norman noblemen, while of which 6500 were Scottish archers and axe knights, and some other soldiers came from On a plain a mile north of Verneuil, the English of men at arms on foot, flanked by longbowmen lightly armoured men were placed in the back and the horses and stop any attack from the men at arms, but the Lombard knights and some of the English, they did not position themselves up in front of the contingent on foot. After mercenaries charged against the enemy. Bedford his lines to counter it, but the missiles armour, which also covered their steeds. The lines, splitting the division in two as men place for the unstoppable force. Emerging their charge against the baggage guard and that he had to achieve victory before the soldiers and ordered them to advance. So did latter proved less disciplined in their advance, the English and Norman men at arms slowly longbowmen finally joined the fray, the French where many French nobles and all their commanders as did most of the Scots, for over 7000 dead. to win, they were driven away, while a few were taken captive. The defeat at Verneuil as it has been remembered as a 'second Agincourt,' be crowned at Reims, while Bedford's prestige the rest of the year. Arc blundering6 meant that Bedford was forced things straight, and only sailed back to France He and Salisbury now started planning a campaign If this great riverine lynchpin was conquered, to knock the dauphin out for good. After capturing way, Salisbury approached Orleans in early regular soldiers and a further 3,000 militia. captured both Jargeau and Chateauneuf to isolate French defences on the southern end of Orleans' artillery bombardment on the 17th, and four gatehouse known as Les Tourelles. This attack side took around 200 losses, with the dauphinist drink, and arms by the city's women. When this approach and instead sent sappers to was happening, the guardians of Les Tourelles of October 23rd, destroying a small part of seemed like Orleans' doom, but as the aggressive where to attack next, a stray cannonball clattered and flung an iron bar at the Earl, slicing he was replaced by William - Earl of Suffolk, Suffolk decided on a prolonged siege, and siegeworks. At about the same time, Orleans the southeast - the city was too large to The city's defenders started bracing for and tearing down the suburbs outside the walls, quarters by doing so. Starting on November the Loire and constructing siege positions responded with a few unsuccessful sorties, of December the besiegers had been reinforced. constructed, the English launched a failed The defenders responded with massive 26-pound the levelling of their suburbs. As 1429 began, to the now-fortified north bank with a number in January. The loose nature of the encirclement of sheep and pigs to reach the city. As gallant slipped out of Orleans and joined a 3,000 reports of an enemy supply caravan approaching marched to intercept near Rouvray. However, the 1,500 strong caravan on February 12th, and counterattacked from behind a ring of mainly Scots were killed, and Clermont subsequently commanders, certain of defeat. At Chinon, seemingly inevitable fall that he considered events many hundreds of miles to the east cause. named Joan began hearing voices and by 1428 from God, delivered by the Archangel Michael Her task? To lead an army against the English have the dauphin traditionally crowned as the Pious had succeeded to the Frankish throne de Baudricourt - a pro-Valois commander in to Chinon and then to Poitiers, where her assured. To test whether this woman's extraordinary in an attempt to break the siege. After being supposedly finding a legendary sword, she force. Upon her arrival, the deflated mood began changing at her holy presence. Leaders - such as Clermont, or who had avoided getting inspired by Joan's patriotic mission. While Orleans following Rouvray allowed English was incoming, to construct a number of formidable to the east, the Boulevard de la Pressoir-Ars the 15th and Bastille de Saint-Jean-le-Blance Glasdale created an external earthen rampart Joan and her relief force set out for Orleans of the Loire at Checy and bypassing Saint-Loup its Burgundian Gate three days after leaving was eager to go on the attack. Because one across the Loire bridge to the Belle Croix siege. Glasdale shouted back that she was she was captured. Nevertheless, Joan's threat if her heralds were not released worked, and a lengthy skirmish was fought when French northern English fortification at Saint-Pouair, inability led the overall defending leader to slip out of the city on May 1st and return While he was gone, Joan didn't remain inactive. long-besieged citizens who crowded to meet performing military reconnaissance against and which were strong. Dunois returned on shortly after an attack began spontaneously by 1,500 troops. Joan was resting at the time, or any of the other mortal voices in the city, to join the attack. For three grueling hours, fierce resistance by the English garrison, and raze Saint-Loup to the joy of Orleans Joan of Arc wept for the 140 slain English Still, the officers remained cautious, but of a large incoming Anglo-Burgundian relief that the siege had to be broken before it be for nothing. On the 5th, French forces le Blance - an earthen fortification protecting to the gatehouse itself, the defenders managed day, Joan crossed the Loire again, pushing Augustins. After a ferocious clash in which a particularly big Englishman, they overran retreated behind the boulevard protecting on their side and momentum at their back, defences on the 7th by escalade, but were the fighting, Joan herself was even struck arrow, but fought on nonetheless. After going Joan of Arc returned with her banner in hand, which they managed to drive the besiegers Tourelles gate. The Maid of Orleans called he subsequently attempted to lead his remaining gatehouse, the timber cracked under the weight the Loire. Glasdale himself, clad in heavy Morale inside the inner fortress crumbled inside quickly surrendered. On the northern their siege lines and formed up in two large to open battle. When Joan and the other commanders battle, however, the besiegers lost their split, one group moving to garrison Jargeau8, way being harried by French troops who disobeyed the Siege of Orleans was over, the dauphin's Joan of Arc was enshrined forever in history immediate advance to crown Charles, but the holding castles on the Loire, weren't yet the army, with an enthusiastic Joan of Arc fell on the 12th, Beaugency on the eve of the 18th. The remaining English forces under Talbot southward marching relief army, bringing their commanded of the united forces, preached caution, by Talbot, who wanted to help the strongholds Meunge, news of the fall of Beaugency had between the two French forces, they began English army's movement, prepared a vanguard Jean de Xaintrailles and sent them north. when he was near the village of Patay on an to confront them, most of them being longbowmen. position on a ridge, with the baggage and while 500 of their best archers were sent vanguard. Once the English ambush force was an alarm among the archers, giving away their Because of this, Talbot ordered them to move could take up position with their sharpened was, the French vanguard crashed upon them. enemies before they could fire their deadly fled back to the main contingent of Englishmen. of their confused and unprepared enemies, flank, destroying and slaughtering anything path. Many of the English captains were captured managed to escape with around half of his or captured, while the French losses were defeated the English longbowmen, which had dispelling the myth of the invincibility of Such a great victory in the open field finally Arc and his newly enlarged 12,000 strong army 1429, the long-beleaguered son of Charles city's grand cathedral as the Maid of Orleans was militarily insignificant, but a propaganda The momentous coronation of Charles VII at regent in France - the popular and capable for an assault by the new king's inspired again with Joan of Arc leading the charge, and a brief siege, the French were repelled. and Charles ordered his army away for winter. politically troublesome for the restored Valois morale in the dark decade of the 1420s. After months, she was captured at Compiegne by the November. After one of the most notorious of Orleans was burned at the stake by English At the time of her death in May 1431, Joan VII made no attempt to save her. On the military front, Bedford managed to control around Paris by taking some towns Louviers. This gave Bedford an opportunity years prior. On December 16th of 1431, Henry France. However, his Burgundian allies did of Burgundy had to establish control over attempts of peace talks were made, which led ambiguous position to play the two sides against of the situation, signing intermittent truces much of the military operations were concentrated launched against different forts. The French Paris and Normandy and along the Normandy-Maine However, all things taken into account though, who no longer had adequate finances or manpower in France, fund the modern war with gunpowder It was only through Bedford's capability the lands were maintained. Despite minor English success in retaking revolt continued to bleed the occupiers of continued to deteriorate. Even more unfortunately could see the way the winds were blowing. in quick succession during 1435. On September away at Rouen and was replaced by Richard signed on September 20th between King Charles the feuding French factions in a settlement territory in return for Philip's formal This political sea change had an immediate the English lands in France. Moreover, the army at Gerberoy, which allowed them to strengthen capture Saint-Denis in the summer 1435 and of the French king was briefly lost between encircled Paris, blocking the most critical food prices soar: this caused discontent among start of a siege on Paris, where Armagnac returned to Charles' hands on the 13th of leaving the city a few days later. At the Normandy, where the two important coastal They were crucial for ferrying reinforcements them, the English had hard time launching The Duke of Burgundy attempted to take advantage Calais in 1436, but the arrival of an English allowing the town to stay in English hands one of the last advances along the Seine: he recaptured the important town of Pontoise, was to hold on to their lands in Normandy on their border or that had remained under of the minority and began to govern in his failed, and over the next few years, England's and their operations in Picardy and Normandy of Harfleur. First Meaux in 1439 and then in the French crownlands, where the powerful good use, fell in 1441, as did Evreux; the time in decades while English, where Charles some towns. The English responses - an attempt did not yield results. Because a group favouring peace with France great influence with the king in England, 1444 for a conference. any kind of compromise, the deal was in reality an extendable two-year truce, Henry VI would of Anjou, and England would cede Maine to to English civilian settlers in Northern France French attacks, it was generally received the factors which made the Wars of the Roses realms started falling apart, Charles made of military and monetary reforms which would had fought so hard to inherit. The taille until this point, became permanent and funded had been hired by contract for centuries and Starting in 1444 however, only the poorer contingents were retained as the core of a On January 5th, 1445, the French royal government d'ordonnance - regular units of troops supplemented and ecorcheurs, many of whom were dismissed their continued loyalty, discipline and relatively soldiers were paid monthly with the new revenues. down the amount of banditry in the kingdom of experienced manpower. Other, less reputable peace, little better than the outlaws which Another vital part of Charles' modernisation 'modern' gunpowder artillery, which emerged Particularly revolutionary was the development didn't disintegrate into its separate components and far more effective. Other technological on breech-loading cannons meant that newer of fire. Enter the brothers Jean and Gaspard of Charles VII. After being appointed to the sporadic variety of cannons currently used for each type of gun was specified and a greater instilled into a previously relatively neglected used France's new fiscal strength to purchase Larger bombards were retained for heavier walls, while smaller caliber guns such as targets. In Normandy and the formally relinquished the Duke of York and his military forces in tune of Henry VI's advisors. To them, it if the French weren't resisted now, and their fortresses - such as the capital at warfare with France in late 1447, but the in March 1448, further diminishing the English York was sent to govern Ireland as a means in France by his great rival Edmund Beaufort finally came to a climax when the captain a Breton fortress at Fougeres with Suffolk's sacked and its fall prompted the then-neutral VII for help. Somerset refused to apologise retaliated by quickly seizing castles at Pont-de-l'Arche, to exchange Fougeres for these towns, but inevitable and it was finally declared at Charles VII crossed the Loire in August and of four armies which now simultaneously invaded was a total walkover. On the 8th, French forces castles began to fall with alarming frequency reduced over the decades. A few weeks later against the English, seized control of a gate, troops. In September, Breton forces completed of the Grand-vey and handed it over to French Duke of Alencon took back the city which bore control for decades. On October 16th the king's glorious Anglo-Norman capital at Rouen. Knowing the city in less than a week and was allowed Caen. So driven were the French to complete into winter, and they eventually managed to and Honfleur. By the time Charles' offensive of central-western Normandy around Caen and northern segment with Cherbourg as its most In England, two of the most powerful figures raised a formidable army of 4,500 men and Normandy. Sir Thomas Kyriell was put in command in France and a Knight of the Garter who came for centuries, had served the kings of England the expedition was delayed because of a lack when the army learned that their second installment and killed one of the king's officials. the unrest through maladministration, and to escape his enemies he was assassinated Despite a false start to the campaign, Kyriell soon as the weather in 1450 permitted, landing instantly boosted the faltering morale of army receiving a further 1,800 reinforcements garrison at Valognes realised that it was but Kyriell pounced too quickly, besieging surrendered on April 10th. The squire in charge to depart with his garrison, supplies, horses, After learning of the new English invasion, most capable lieutenants to inform and reinforce Having missed the opportunity to save Valognes, main road that Kyriell would most likely use the Breton Constable of France - Arthur de Saint-Lo in case Kyriell marched that way. absorbing manpower, artillery and other siege their commander that rather than passing by were instead executing a potentially dangerous, the low-lying tidal marshlands near the Grand-Vey, only minor resistance. Local farmers and other men-at-arms, but were easily brushed aside. supposedly shouted at them "Mad dogs! We getting past the harsh terrain, Kyriell's known as Formigny, while Gough was sent ahead Clermont moved to close the distance with message to de Richemont asking to be reinforced. out for Formigny early on the 15th, but wouldn't Battle of Formigny (1450) troops spent the morning hours constructing ditches, potholes, earthen palisades, and road. Accompanying this was a smaller series they had made the village a makeshift fortress. from the west and informed Sir Kyriell that the English knight had Gough recalled from Kyriell drew up his archer-heavy forces in on the right side of the line, anchored on 1,500 troops on the left near the Val stream. mounted crossbowmen and some artillerists led by an elite Scottish vanguard compagnie. halted about 600 meters away from their enemy, the French forces formed up west of a bridge hours Clermont's men remained where they advisors. The older captains cautioned restraint, immediate attack before the English defences be known as the 'Scourge of the English', culverins protected by a few hundred crossbowmen stationary English troops suffered heavy casualties Matthew Gough reacted first, sending 500 archers position. They drove away the French gunners, them. Panicked by the setback, Clermont ordered south of the battlefield in order to find soon as possible. At the same time, the French under Pierre de Breze to reinforce their troops. Though this fierce melee started well more reinforcements to bolster Gough's soldiers superior English. Official reports to the later state that if Kyriell's army had launched would have been defeated. That attack never a small army of around 1,000 men emerged onto English were jubilant, celebrating that reinforcements the flank. However, as the third force got made both sides realise what was happening and Kyriell was now the one in danger of being De Richemont rode quickly with his advance Breton force remained on the English side for Kyriell's army, but it is likely that those of either French commander. In response, on the left start to redeploy, pivoting to However, the elite Breton advance guard used the bridge, slaying six-scores of their English redeployment effort. With disarray now the the Breton Constable returned to his main rear, while at the same time Clermont assaulted Also, at the same time, Pierre de Breze the field, seizing control of the eastern retreat. Kyriell did his best to rally the the village, but Breze charged them from different angles. To make this worse, the slaughter. The main English army was totally to lead their surviving soldiers back to Bayeaux withdrew to a garden next to the Val and were Clermont's troops slew them anyway. The prisoner, along with about 1,200 others, while at Formigny. military hopes in Normandy. Most garrisons and his defeat now denuded them of defenders. France's armies at Formigny, it had also 16th. In June, Caen was besieged and taken and ceremonially entered the city on June Peninsula city of Cherbourg finally went down now under French control for the first time Recovery of Gascony (1449-1453) northern France in such a blitzkrieg-like throughout England and pushed the kingdom imprisoned in the Tower, and this internal dealing with new problems on the continent. south towards Gascony with the victory. Back had already captured Cognac, Saint-Megrin, - a powerful magnate in the south of France, year and put his considerable military force castles. Despite this preliminary success, far more difficult to capture and hold than of England for over three centuries compared the area's nobility and population still There were many reasons for this, but trade for example, wine exports to England reached and lords were making vast profits from their quo change. in October 1450, French forces opened the siege. The castle fell in short order and Anglo-Gascon force outside Bordeaux and crushing winter. Campaigning began again in spring Montguyon after a short siege. From that point, castles fell very quickly - Blaye was captured and Castillon in the five days after that. by strong French artillery, in addition to undermined baronial resistance. A decisive when the central city of Bordeaux surrendered generous pension from the French king as a was captured, and the feuding English could continental possession, save for Calais, slipped learned from the Black Prince's mistake heavy taxation on the newly acquired Gascon Not surprisingly this, along with the rapaciousness immediately began to build. not prepared to let Gascony go without a fight, by a deteriorating political situation that Richard of York owned vast estates on the in Ireland that the tenants rose up in revolt their lord to return from his quasi-exile army quickly gathered around York when he towards London. The Lancastrians mustered York at Dartford. Rather than attacking, the grievances and demands which included the and York's bitter rival who was accused in previous years. The weak monarch initially his throne - Margaret of Anjou, intervened reaffirm his loyalty to the crown. Somerset this was going on, indentures had managed the command of a sixty-five-year-old John stage for his attack was the situation in envoys reached London in 1452 inviting the if they returned. off the seas, Talbot audaciously sailed the the Medoc Peninsula on October 17th. Less uprising in Bordeaux led to the city's capitulation. by the end of the year, save a few holdouts. had taken Charles VII totally by surprise, in order to counter a possible invasion there. and supplies from home during the winter while hurried to send advanced forces south to reinforce while he prepared to lead an invasion of the June 1453, four separate, smaller armies began with Gascony, preparing to invade on multiple under the Count de Clermont and Gaston IV at Bearn. In the north, a third army commanded to march from around Angouleme. Charles VII in the Lusignan region. The king made sure with siege engines and gunpowder artillery, which was accompanied by Charles' artillery Battle of Castillon (1443) in early June. In the south, Foix and Clermont moving north towards Bordeaux until the latter Being close enough to help, Foix reinforced but this made the English commander withdraw up and remained near the city in order to army meanwhile began a methodical thrust through of Castillon from the east in mid-July 1453. at his base at Saint-Jean-d'Angely, the was at the time held by about 50 men-at-arms army was a relatively standard one, about siege train. Castillon itself was a strongly River in the south - running east to west, on the edge of this woodland, surrounded on located on elevated ground. with fortifications as in a traditionally in overall command of conducting the operation, Talbot and the garrison if English forces a thousand crossbowmen to hold the priory in constructing a fortified artillery park - both heavy and light, operated by 700 gunners. were dug on three sides, backed by raised defences. To screen the open northern flank to hold the village of Capitourlan. In Bordeaux, English garrison in Castillon, which led to to go out and relieve it. Possibly before English infantry, 2,000 Gascons, and 1,000 that. After bypassing a few of their own towns in the Hills of Horable to maintain surprise, of 1,300 mounted troops assembled near the up, they burst out from the forest and attacked 120 of the French missile troops and capturing were harried in their retreat by the English in support. With that, Talbot's forces were about Bureau's artillery enclosure which force had just reached the priory, its morale Talbot initially decided not to follow up troops needed to rest after the long march park, Bureau was preparing for a fight by the horses away with their grooms. The movement a cloud of dust which was spotted by English When they reported back to Talbot that the reversed his judgment and decided to resume subordinate - Sir Thomas Evringham. It is that he could not hear Christian mass until of loot at the enemy camp given, Talbot led the Dordogne towards Bureau's fortification, while the main body of infantry followed up French outriders who reported the incoming by some supply ships in the river. As the face the artillery park, Bureau was in the - mainly culverins and ribauldequins, on the The latter ordered his troops to dismount English commander - who was so unprotected against Charles VII ever again, remained in Once again Evringham advised caution against suggesting that it be starved out. Talbot hesitation might harm his reputation. Seeing the cannons, Talbot ordered Evringham to lead he led the first attack, advancing across such close range, the French light artillery men, supposedly killing six men with a single the top of the wall but was shot and killed losses, fighting on the artillery's park's thousand Anglo-Gascon infantry was now coming against the enclosure's right flank. Because attack commenced piecemeal, with contingents Now reinforced by the infantry, Talbot's attacked with renewed ferocity, inflicting from the French culverin fire. Though Talbot's strong fortification stalled the English attacks. combat on the ramparts, however, French forces tiring. But at that moment, the 1,000 Bretons hills, having received a message from Bureau into the fortified artillery park and reinforced swept around the eastern trenches and crashed in smoke and noise given off by the French totally by surprise. The aged earl turned to meet the assault but wasn't the end of it. Seeing the English the fortification launched a counterattack to do so. What happened next is unclear and lines began to break, routing towards the himself rallied a small contingent alongside could get away. However, a cannon shot the its rider under it. A family legend claims flee, stating "Leave me, the day belongs this is your first battle." In what was age had to offer, the son refused and was an ax to the skull. When the English commander's collapsed. Some soldiers drowned attempting were run down by the victorious Breton horsemen, itself. The Anglo-Gascon casualties are uncertain, while French losses were quite light in comparison. the field, he had the old soldier given a his banner and collar of office were given mercy on a good knight." Talbot had never Castillon was taken on July 20th and the French internal squabble. That strife was nothing resistance, was falling one castle at a time. later, after being strangled and battered VII. On October 19th, 1453, French banners in Gascony were forced to leave. Aftermath the Hundred Years War came to an effective of this. Of the great Angevin Empire that Pyrenees, only Calais and a few satellite went from a state with a continental element in 1453, and the two kingdoms remained in continue to raid the English coast for prisoners in Normandy and Gascony to prevent further the newly integrated provinces. Only in 1475 that year, the first English army to invade the stated goal to divide up the French Realm the French and English army faced off, the and Louis XI of France was signed. This was de facto peace treaty that ended the war. and an upfront payment, the English would the other's internal rebels. The peace would and no English King would seriously attempt would still style themselves Rex Franciae would instead be lost in the closing years attack by the French took most of the ring city to surrender in a week, kicking the English The immediate political effects were acutely always been weak after the death of Henry and left his infant son, Henry VI, as the of the Duke of Bedford and his connections had managed to keep a hold over northern France. came of age, he did not give any leadership by court factionalism between different family late 1453, Henry VI fell into a catatonic a political struggle between Richard of York detained. The struggle culminated in 1455, Battle of Saint Albans, marking the beginning covered in a previous video. Many of the grievances be traced back to the conduct of the Hundred losses. Also, Edward III had created duchies royal princes enormous wealth and following as the subsequent civil war would show. the English out of the continent, but he did every English invasion, whether from Flanders, internal conflict such as the civil war between provinces that composed the kingdom and their than those of the kingdom as a whole, and to pursue these goals. The King was acutely in 1454 after plotting to capture Bayonne of the Dukes of Alencon and Armagnac were were conspiring with the English or were likely of its easily defensible terrain and position of the Dukes of Burgundy. on a centralization effort to further curtail to absorb his main rivals, the Duchies of of Burgundy, Philip the Good and his son Charles royal power. They spearheaded the noble uprising supported the Yorkist side in the English one and facilitated the English landing of allowing the Crown to absorb much of their conflict with the Habsburg family, while Brittany generation following the Mad War. Other princely into the royal domain by the end of the century. ability of the Princes to threaten the King risks of being tried for treason and executed political freedom as before. Charles of Bourbon Italian Wars in the 1520s but failed also members of the nobility. Still, the French as once the monarchy found itself without country fell again into civil war, this time headed by great noble houses. The French Kings power to venture into foreign expeditions, against the Spanish-Imperial Von Habsburg over Europe, that we have covered in our series The transition from a feudal system to a more in taxation and army recruitment. These developments of Western Europe, but the War characterised 1430s, Charles VII managed to greatly increase Estates to demand taxes. In 1439, he issued was entitled to raise troops and taxes, threatening 1440 during the &quot;Praguerie&quot; and in 1442 at attempted to wrangle away power from the crown of the towns, of the Church and his minister light concessions. Crucially, Charles managed during his reign without the need to have aides and tailles after the war's end, although heterogeneous. Also, during the truce in the professional permanent armies fully funded the backbone of the army that fought against Italy in 1494. England had already been quite the war, although the power of the Parliament for taxes, and it would maintain a constraint Because of this and its isolated geography, army until Cromwell, while most states developed critical development in warfare was the introduction important element in sieges as the war progressed. identity in both countries, fostered by mutual to the population with the high taxation and was more invested as a whole in the war than a generation, the English nobility dropped tongue, in favour of English. France had a the ability of the French king, but a century allowing for more power of the central state was reinforced in decades of war, plundering first half of the war, the population's hatred the battle of Agincourt, this hatred was directed The scars of the war would endure on the population the Black Death devastated both countries. the Carolinian period, the war sparked up that became the battlefield, particularly century and would spend decades to recover were reclaimed by forest. The regions that where large churches and monastic orders had and cutting wood. Cities managed to mostly they had to deal with the destruction of their countryside. When the war ended, some cities England was not ravaged nearly as much as in the common consciousness, and the threat changed most for the country was their cut The wool trade had been nationalised during was able to control its export in Calais as in northern Europe. With this control, it being blocked to those countries hostile to during various periods. What had been an extremely reliant as it was used as a foreign policy industry. The loss of Gascony, which for centuries damaging in particular for individuals who titles, and the trade of Gascon wine halted decades later. of Medieval conflicts and probably the period's fascinating figures, grandiose battles and It shaped the trajectory that both France with a more centralised state and would be politics in the following centuries, while its connection to the continent. Thanks again to War Thunder for sponsoring in this massive vehicle combat game on PC free bonus pack with premium features - get These long videos are very difficult to make, More long videos on many interesting topics and have pressed the bell button to see them. patron and YouTube member exclusive content, in the description or button under the video our schedule, get early access to our videos, This is the Kings and Generals channel, and