Castor oil. Is this ancient medicine It can treat constipation. It can get rid of the dark circles It can grow your hair. It can treat period pain. It's probably what you've heard online But today I'm going to do a deep dive and look at the evidence for these claims whether you want to use it or not. First of all, what is cost rule? If you haven't come across you won't know that it is extracted A plant that's scientifically known and its main compound of interest that provides some semblance of evidence of antifungal antimicrobial benefits, And this is this fatty acid And that represents And if you're watching this on YouTube, that shows And you see, it's basically this component There's a little bit of the short linoleic acid. These are all short But the main one is this retinoic acid. And it's mainly cultivated in India, South America, Africa and China. And it's got a long history and folk medicine use, And that's sort of understandable And one of the main things is that it can help with dry eye So let's look at that first claim Now, there are tons of videos on social media of people with issues like dryness or dark There's there's a whole plethora of different ways usually with a cotton bud or, pads that you soak the castor oil in Now when castor oil is used as an eyedrop, in some commercially available eyedrops But and this is a big but, cost or mixtures called emulsions mainly other components and a little bit So why would you find castor oil in an eye Well, castor oil might be able to mimic So in your tears, people It's actually this rich layer It's a very, very, Also some microbes in there. So there is a potential for castor oil layer and presumably reduce the friction and the water evaporation from the eye. the evidence base for this, there's using ophthalmic preparations also used in Blyth writes, of the eyelids as well It was improved with castor But an a big part of it and the maximum amount of other additives And you'll find the links to that, This actually did show signs of ocular surface disorders blur so there is some evidence for castor oil Do I recommend it? not really. pure castor because the bottles of castor oil available on store shelves They're not sterile, and they can contain a number of other or even infection as well. So when you see eye droppers or droppers oil, please don't put them on the eye And your eyes are very sensitive It has its own because of the tear as well You don't want to be putting castor when you use cost or in it's pure form, oil, it is really, So if you put it anywhere near your eye, and probably irritation So definitely don't use those preparations So that's definitely a no What about around your eye? This is a common, to treat dryness around the eyes Things like black writers, for example, just 26 participants, around the eyes, actually improved and even reduced That was troublesome for these folks. And they use cold pressed castor oil. So this is the pure form of cost oil around the eyelid twice So we'll put a link to that. So potentially But you just want to make sure that you're not getting castor There might be some benefits, but for other more eye sensitive creams For example, dark circles is a There was an exploratory Again, very small. And they found that a castor oil cream. So this isn't pure castor oil. This is an emollient. So it's going to be it's going They found it was effective for treating This is a long word to basically say. So circles around the eye So that's how much castor oil And you see this image of this lady Looks kind of scary. You see the hyperpigmentation and then off there as well. And there's a remarkable difference. Just after, a couple of weeks here. they didn't have the images but you can definitely tell using and everything, that was, a subjective Now, I just want to reiterate that there is limited evidence We didn't find any other trials So the scientific evidence But I think it's potentially safe. If you did want to try it. The other thing to recognise is dark circles around your eyes It could be dark related. You might not be having enough protein it could be a collagen So whether or not taking a collagen is still sort of, I don't think but it could certainly be something to do in one's diet. It could also be a telltale sign Things like talk to you, diabetes, you do get hyperpigmentation And then the simple stuff, Are you exercising? what's your weight? are you putting on excess adiposity, You've got to think before you start experimenting Otherwise, the question is how would, cost or work if, let's say, that there weren't any other reasons as to circles around the eyes So a moisturising agent, these, hydrating benefits, anti-inflammatory effects of that Ricola which is what castor oil is So do I recommend it for dark circles? I think these studies, you know, but as a pure oil, so I would say probably not. If you are going to use it, I would use and make sure that you don't apply make sure you don't have one alcohol, don't So I think there are better products, something that your grandma told you I don't think there's anything, a second use case for castor We've seen quite a few videos of people on the abdomen or, pain associated with endometriosis, Other women's health complaints. It's used, with cost or packs. So you get these packs on line and you apply it directly to the skin. I thought it might be something people applying it directly to the skin with hot water bottle. Apparently, the the heat sort of activates and you leave it on your abdomen And anecdotally, Another thing that I've also noticed put the oil in the belly button a better term, they literally massage it There is absolutely no scientific evidence about this practice. I couldn't find any quality so it's really hard for me to say externally on the skin could be beneficial let alone whether it's painful periods how might it work? Well, if I was to postulate as to why this could work, you know it does In theory, the cost of oil has been shown to possess Animal studies have shown of regular like acid, from castor oil at a dose of 0.9mg per mouse. Yes, they did it per mouse for eight days, swelling by 50%. maybe it boosts circulation in the area. Maybe it's the massaging or the relaxation that's having an effect. I would reserve a lot of scepticism Do I think it's harmful? Probably not. I really don't think it's harmful at all. Do I recommend this? I don't think there's any evidence this idea is somewhat based on Ovid a massage technique yogic traditions called opinion. I think I'm pronouncing that right. where you essentially rub your hands, with sort of medium force following the direction usually used for constipation, as a way of sort of settling, There is some evidence for that. But the castor oil they do use castor oil and traditional but again, The only risk I see with to topical administration and So test it on your skin first But apart from that, castor oil with a pack, it has many safety issues at all. the heat pad might have an effect. The massage, I think it's unlikely for the, the, to actually have an effect. But try it. Anecdotally, it works for some people. I don't think there's any harm On the subject of Obiang GOM Obiang. This yogic massage is actually relevant for constipation, which is the next thing There are some abdominal massages. They don't call it Abby Unger, different techniques to relieve your hands And that has been shown But for castor oil, the best known role It's even approved FDA approval. So this is one thing that I would say The most research we saw looked at castor bowel prep for colon capsule endoscopy. Colon capsule endoscopy high piece of, technical equipment that Daniel digestive tract. And it negates the need for you to having a physical telescope intuitive gesture tract via it's sort of a rough idea of like, and this has been used as a laxative before you have that endoscopy procedure, where they had around 500 old people, was significantly better So there is some evidence, but not much. How would cost oil help with your bowels? How does it work as a laxative? So in the intestine lipids breaks down Lipids is the type of enzyme that breaks And as being, another word enzymes, it breaks down these fats, And it's thought to be the component responsible It triggers the release of prostaglandins, which are these proteins that are, And they lead to enhanced So it gets your intestines moving So you're going to have more water And then you get the laxative effect. And we've got a lovely diagram. that will show to the folks that shows You get the lipids activity that breaks the release of those different components The one thing that you've got to be may induce labour as well, or the effect on pressing or receptors You want to be careful if you are, constipated and pregnant, definitely can happen. So pregnancy is unfortunately related You can imagine someone saying, because cholesterol And the the pregnant lady takes it and So just make sure that you are very and any medicines you take Another suggested mechanism genuine laxative effect and it reduces the reabsorption of sodium So again, you're getting a lot more of these electrolytes along and in and in addition it can, Side effects. So whilst it works as a laxative, it's because of bloating, So This is definitely It works, that I would probably go for before There's for far fewer side effects I mean, just simply increasing increasing your fibre intake Maybe even doing an abdominal massage And there are other laxatives for example, osmotic laxatives, as well Just a quick one. If you're enjoying this kind of content, you will love a free Every week I send you a recipe Something to listen to, something to read, Less than three minutes and it will help You can find that in the link down below. do I recommend castor oil? If you want to try it, go for it. If you prefer to use a But I think personally from a medical perspective, Okay, the fourth one, detoxing the body Now, there are anecdotal stories that placing again, can aid in detoxifying it I haven't found any solid scientific oil as an effective aid for weight And actually, probably more on the conventional side I really don't think a detox than improving your hydration status eating a good collection of largely So greens certainly have some evidence, And increasing the activity fibre can definitely remove a lot more environmental pollutants But other than that, and all that kind of stuff actually benefit in, at all So I really that's When anyone mentions the word detox, because I think, unless we're really clear about what hyperbole and not really much You can imagine that and you get diarrhoea, You're probably going to have some weight It's not going to be a healthy way If you did have an infective organism, a pathogen, you were having issues You can imagine through traditions It got rid of that pathogen. You have the machinery and the mechanism but this sort of helps it along. So you can imagine along the way, castor oil kind of got mixed in But today, in the modern world I don't think it really holds any value Just to round off that idea we have on supporting your body's ability is basically lifestyle Sleep. Because during sleep, of the metabolic waste products you want and then drinking plenty of fluids. Like I've already mentioned, there is some small evidence So there was a study where they found dehydrated, You can also take it in capsules, of some environmental pollutants I think those kind of products to become a lot more popular polluted environments, But outside of that, one other thing but certainly things that you can do So, sauna will obviously And it is a very effective means like cadmium, for example, which is, and that is one way Again, something that you can't do Unfortunately, great value from this so far. So, sorry for that. the last one, the last common use for You often see it regrowing hair, but also dry scalp, dandruff to moisturise the scalp and hair. how would it work? Well, It does lock moisture in, but it is your, pores and actually, so it's something that you want to be always it does So the acids, the dominant fatty acid the scalp by, and actually protecting the hair from it does have that mild So the lowering inflammation its ability but that's all in theory. Is there any evidence, for this effect actually having, So there's some low quality Yes. Rabbits. they suggested that a lotion containing increased the length and softness I haven't seen any studies in humans, so I very much doubt that we're at the stage where but if you are looking and are in the market of your rabbit, 35% the claim that it treats or prevents Again, The theory is there with the anti-microbial effect, but I we did find a recent systematic review to show efficacy in alopecia, And this was published in the Clinical And they found that that were efficacious in alopecia, and a combination of others, lavender, and evening primrose oil, So they were literally looking for any evidence of cost and they couldn't find anything, there are other sort of more natural that do have evidence and the time oils and stuff, caffeine has caffeine in and, that has been shown you've also got, hair transplants. you've got, other sort of, topical, administrations so the one that always comes to mind And this comes in various preparations. 5%, 10% sprays, creams. So that is, effective in around 50% of, so that's something to I would say if you are worried about hair loss, that you should probably And that's about it for castor oil. Look, it's been used for centuries It could be good There might be some evidence that is good but I can't really see much for. Certainly not for detox. Certainly not for pain. and and definitely not for hair But if you wanted to try it, as long as you're That's definitely something But there are traditional practices and if it brings you closer to your I, Aveda with this Jamaican practices, American, then try it, by all means, That so there are lots of pharmaceutical that I think are probably going but if you want to lean in traditions, just make sure you're doing it and in the knowledge that there isn't But cholesterol is pretty safe. You want to use it? use it in your skin. Use it topically. Just don't, put it in your eyes. do you think I've done a good job Let me know if there are any studies I've missed, or any information that That will prove me wrong. I would love to know how you use and whether you've had benefits discomfort, constipation, whatever Let me know in the comments. I really do want to learn a lot more and see whether there is, for how they might work. you love the episode on castor oil, then I do a deep dive on the benefits Heart health, and lots And I think you're going to like it.