The Death Star is one of the most iconic weapons A simply designed battle station the size entire planet. Welcome to Star Wars Explained, and 101 facts The following facts have all been taken from The Death Star cost over one trillion credits It was funded by Techno Union, Banking Clan, sides of the Clone Wars. The Death Star began construction as a Republic After Dooku brought the plans to Sidious, Separatists were building a superweapon and of their own first. The original designs were developed by Geonosian Poggle the Lesser during the Second Battle Very few members of the Republic or Empire Those that did were known as the Strategic They each signed the Official Secrets Act the rest of the galaxy. Tiaan Jerjerrod was known for his work on build the first. Construction of the Death Star began over The first completed piece was the ring that The asteroids surrounding the planet were The Geonosian battle droid factories were Poggle the Lesser negotiated his freedom in on the project. Geonosians almost needed work to survive. They fought and killed each other over tasks considered completely natural to them. Over the course of its construction, members Dooku never attacked the construction on Geonosis. Of course we know this is because he is simply The full construction took about twenty three to the loss of the superlaser's chief researcher, Several outposts and supply depots were created true location of the Death Star's construction. Orson Krennic managed the development of the Krennic's official title was Director of The Death Star itself was guarded by four After the Clone Wars, Wookiee slaves were war, including the Death Star. At some point the project was moved away from To protect their secret weapon, the Empire Or so they thought. Scarif was another planet used as a construction To protect the installation on Scarif's surrounded the entire planet. When the Republic became the Empire, the Imperial Its logo was not so subtly the Death Star. This isn't an official rendering, just my in Catalyst. Every department of the battle station's The superlaser's cover was Project Celestial Other names included Stellar Sphere, Mark Publicly, the Death Star was known as the It was 120 kilometers in diameter. The Death Star's hull was made of Quadanium Power was supplied to the station and superlaser It was armed with 15,000 turbolaser batteries. 768 tractor beams were spread across the equatorial The Millennium Falcon was pulled into docking docking bays. The station was made up of 357 internal levels. Turbolifts carried personnel between said horizontally. Although it was never shown, the first Death as the second did. The Death Star had a bar. A former Imperial lamented its poor lack of The garbage chutes were able to identify waste Luke and company wind up in recyclables thanks The creature that lurked in that trash compactor It's currently unknown how it got there, to help break down garbage. Grilled dianoga was a breakfast dish served Although it's never seen used in the film, I would be very interested to see what moving would look like on screen. An emergency air dump guarded against any There was a water recycling facility that station. Detention area AA-23 was reserved for political The RA-7 model protocol droid was used in them the nickname Death Star Droids utilized to clean the floors, make basic repairs, posts. The Death Star carried over two million personnel 342,953 of them were members of Imperial Navy/Army. Both of those statistics are oddly specific The Empire doesn't round, I guess. Stormtroopers played ball games in zero gravity much forbidden. The Death Star had elite naval troops called including piloting the station, operating Imperial Weapons Technicians operated the The most elite of them were involved in firing They wore special helmets that were designed of the superlaser and exploding planets. The superlaser's design itself was inspired kyber crystals. Original plans were for eight giant crystals one massive beam. One kyber crystal meant for the Death Star A second was destroyed about five years prior Large kyber crystals were rumored to decorate the galaxy. The Death Star's superlaser design was adapted to be used in place of large ones. Kyber crystals were harvested from planets actually been the same planet. The chief researcher behind the superlaser Erso believed his work was to use kyber crystals worlds. When he learned that the Empire was attempting delaying the project for years. After the loss of Erso, Krennic received a oversee the rest of the project. A failed test of weaponizing kyber crystals entire city, and the deaths of tens of thousands The superlaser's first successful test fire This could be a nod to the Maw Installation superweapons were developed. That test superlaser was only two percent The superlaser required 24 hours to recharge. This was reduced to only three minutes in If the beams were not aligned perfectly the dangerous levels of waste heat back into the The Death Star was a perfect representation a philosophy that affirmed that fear of annihilation control. To demonstrate the power of the Death Star, in destruction of Alderaan. Alderaan's destruction caused many systems The remains of Alderaan were sent to potentially The Death Star's defenses were not capable they were not expected to be any threat to The trench that led to the thermal exhaust the equatorial trench, which is a common misconception. The thermal exhaust port sat near the north The weakness of the thermal exhaust port was millions of millimeter wide openings in place The Death Star's destruction resulted in of course Grand Moff Tarkin, but more tragically might recognize. Although the Death Star could carry over two fully staffed at the Battle of Yavin. The total loss of life from the attacks on and a half million, so the first Death Star time of its destruction. After the destruction of the Death Star and the Rebel and pirate raids became more prevalent About four years after the Battle of Yavin, survivors of Alderaan to build a new home. Research gathered from the development of was used to build Starkiller Base, the similar decades after the Battle of Yavin I'm shifting gears for the final facts, the scenes trivia rather than in-universe Luke mentions a prison transfer from cell George Lucas's first movie. Princess Leia's cell, 2187, is referenced FN-2187. The tractor beam unit shut down by Obi-Wan The only written English can be seen on the version of that scene in A New Hope. In early designs of the Death Star, the superlaser Although it was later moved to the northern to the Battle of Yavin still show the superlaser the trash in the trash compactor was real, Mark Hamill actually burst a blood vessel his breath as much as possible iconic swing across the mechanical abyss of stunt doubles special edition of A New Hope and in Return wherein a flat ring of matter erupts from The buzzing sound counting down to the Death the Flash Gordon serials, which heavily influenced In 1981, following the Voyager spacecraft's between one of the planet's moons, Mimas, In 2012-13, a proposal on the White House's to build a real Death Star as an economic than 30,000 signatures, enough to qualify The White House response also stated &quot;the planets,&quot; and questioned funding a weapon by a one-man starship&quot; as reasons for denying The cost of building a real Death Star has Lehigh University, or about 13,000 times the The International Business Times cited a Centives rates of steel production, the Death Star The Death Star placed ninth in a 2008 20th weapons the World War II film The Dam Busters, in along heavily defended reservoirs and aim Some of the dialogue in The Dam Busters is Gilbert Taylor, who worked on Star Wars, also Dam Busters. The trench run was also partially inspired which fight planes attack a German plant by bombs at a precise point, while avoiding anti-aircraft Colin Cantwell made the first prototype models Tie Fighter, Star Destroyer, Landspeeder, and of course the Death Star. The Death Star was originally meant to be make the model was notorious for shrinking. So when the two hemispheres were brought together Colin asked George Lucas what he thought of was approved, saving hours of painstaking There you go! 101 facts all about the Death Star right before If you're not sick of hearing about it yet Star you could check out! Also let me know if you enjoyed this video If you haven't already please subscribe every day, follow me on Twitter, Instagram, Patreon page! As always, thanks for watching and may the