Welcome to Jeremy's IT Lab. This is a free, complete course for the CCNA. If you like these videos, please subscribe Also, please like and leave a comment, and of videos. Thanks for your help. In this video we'll look at LAN architectures. By architectures, I mean how devices like together to make networks. These LAN architectures are exam topics 1.2.a, small office/home office. The other topics in 1.2, 1.2.d which is WAN will be covered in separate videos. Here's what we'll cover in this video. Actually, it's exactly the exam topics I First we'll cover 2-tier and 3-tier LAN These are common traditional LAN designs used Then we'll cover spine-leaf architecture, Finally I'll briefly cover SOHO, Small Office/Home Small networks like this are different than network device acting as router, switch, firewall, Watch until the end of the video for a bonus ExSim for CCNA, my recommended practice exams Before actually getting into the topics for of the course is important. You have studied various network technologies and switching, STP, EtherChannel, OSPF, FHRPs, So, now let's look at some basic concepts Network design is a very deep topic and to architect, requires a deep understanding of the specific customer. Although there are standard best practices correct answers. The answer to most general questions about the requirements of each network are different. Now, in the early stages of your networking networks yourself. That's usually left for the more experienced However, to understand the networks you will important to know some basics of network design So, in this video and the next few we'll And now, before introducing the two-tier and topics of this video, I want to briefly introduce and which I might use throughout this video. These are general terms, not only for LAN in general. The first one is called a 'star' topology. When several devices all connect to one central below, so this is often called a star topology. In the diagram below, all PCs connect to one a star shape around the switch. Note that in network diagrams the devices of a star. But if many devices are all connected to one regardless of how the diagram is drawn. The next term is full mesh, which is when forming a mesh. Here's an example. 6 routers, and each router is connected to This is called a full mesh topology. The last one I want to introduce is partial to each other, but not all. Here's an example with four switches. Notice that the top two switches are both two switches are not directly connected. This is a partial mesh topology. Okay, those are the three general terms I You'll see examples of them throughout this remember them. Now let's get into the basics of campus By campus LAN, I mean a LAN of devices in that are close to each other. Remember, LAN stands for Local Area Network. First we'll look at the two-tier LAN design, the access layer and the distribution layer. The two tier design is also called a 'collapsed is found in the three tier design, the core Or more accurately, it combines the two together So, in the next slide I'll show you an example each layer. First, the access layer. This is the layer that end hosts connect to, etc. They will usually connect to an access layer So, typically access layer switches have lots QoS marking is typically done here. This is the layer that end hosts connect to, a good practice to mark traffic as early as Security services like port security, DAI, Also, switchports might be PoE, Power over points or IP phones in the LAN. So that's the access layer, the switches Then there is the distribution layer. These switches aggregate connections from So, depending on how many end hosts there switches. Those connections are then usually aggregated switches, as you'll see in the next slide. Typically, this is the border between Layer So, the distribution layer switches run both protocols such as spanning tree. This is not always the case, but usually the to the distribution layer switches are Layer SVIs on the distribution layer switches as The distribution layer is used to connect Okay, let's look at an example. Here's a simple two-tier campus LAN network. The two access-layer switches, A1 and A2, and each also has a wireless access point D1 and D2 are the distribution layer switches, This provides redundancy, by having extra However, the connections between the access and that means loops can occur. So, spanning-tree protocol disables a few Now, D1 and D2 are multilayer switches, and their default gateways. So, they will probably be using a first hop provide a redundant virtual IP address for As I said before, the distribution layer is or the WAN, as well as other parts of the So, here's the connection to the Internet, Internet Service Providers. And perhaps there's another set of distribution servers connected to the access layer switches. Notice that each distribution layer switch switch. By the way, in a collapsed core two-tier design called the core-distribution layer, because We'll see the core layer later. These connections between distribution switches Routing information can be shared via OSPF, So, this is an example of a two-tier network The end hosts connect to the access layer features like DAI, etc. The distribution layer switches aggregate to services like the Internet and to other Now let me relate this back to those common Although I haven't drawn the diagram like all connecting to one central device, each So, these are four small star topologies. If I put more end hosts on the diagram and would look more like a star, but I think you And here we have a couple partial mesh topologies layers. Notice that the distribution switches are switch, but the access switches aren't directly So, these are two partial meshes. And finally, between the four distribution Each distribution switch is connected to each mesh. You'll see elements of full-mesh, partial-mesh, designs, and often combinations of them sometimes sure you remember these terms. Now, if the network gets larger we might have parts of the LAN. Do you see anything wrong with this? In large LAN networks with many distribution across a campus, the number of connections grows rapidly. This makes it much more difficult and complicated So, to help scale large LAN networks you can By the way, Cisco recommends adding a Core layers in a single location. In this case there are 6, so we should add Here's how it looks with a core layer added. Each distribution layer connects to the core between the distribution layer switches. These core layer switches are a pair of very So let's take a look at how the core layer When we add a Core Layer we now have a three-tier Let's talk about that core layer. It connections separate distribution layers The focus of this layer is speed, you might a goal of the core layer. CPU-intensive operations such as security etc should be avoided at this Layer. We just want fast forwarding of packets, nothing And the connections are all Layer 3. We definitely don't want spanning tree at The core layer should maintain connectivity Because it's the backbone of the LAN, redundancy Let's take a look at the previous topology Here's how the network might look with the This time, the core switches connect to the And if we have additional distribution and As you know, they will also connect to the So, this is an example of a three-tier campus For smaller LANs two tiers is sufficient, like this. Okay, let's review those tiers once more Here are those attributes of each Layer again. For the access layer, remember that it is often performs services like QoS marking, For the distribution layer, remember that the access layer and serves as the border 3 network. In a two-tier design it connects to services a three-tier network usually those connections Notice I added an extra note saying that it Remember that, as aggregation of connections Finally, the core layer is used in large LANs the focus is on speed, so we avoid operations All connections here are Layer 3. Okay, that's all for the two- and three-tier Keep in mind what I said earlier, there are design. Although these two- and three-tier LAN designs in the real world there are countless variations Let's move on to the topic of Spine-Leaf This photo I'm showing you was taken in you it is because spine-leaf architecture Currently I work for a large data center provider, this. So, what exactly is a data center? Data centers are dedicated spaces or buildings and network devices. They typically contain halls of racks, like devices are mounted onto the racks. Traditional data center designs used a three-tier like we just covered. This traditional design worked well when most What does that mean? Well, if we look at this diagram, north-south distribution, core, and then perhaps out to distribution and access layers. These other sections of the LAN are drawn north-south when drawing the arrows in this of course. This is in contrast to east-west traffic, servers in the same part of the network like parts of the LAN or out to the Internet. With the precedence of virtual servers, which by the way, applications are often deployed servers, which increases the amount of East-West If you're not sure what a virtual server is, like I said I'll cover it soon in another Anyway, the point is that with this increase architecture led to bottlenecks in bandwidth latency depending on the path the traffic To solve this, spine-leaf architecture, also one of the designers, has become prominent Let's check it out. Here's what spine-leaf architecture looks It's two-tier, but different than the traditional There are spine switches and leaf switches, architecture. Every leaf switch is connected to every spine If you look at the diagram below, there are has three uplinks, one to each spine switch. Therefore, every spine switch is connected However, leaf switches do not connect to other to other spine switches. Finally, end hosts, for example servers, only They are like the 'access layer' of the Okay, those are the main rules of spine-leaf The path taken by traffic is randomly chosen switches. And each server is separated by the same number same leaf switch which have fewer hops of for east-west traffic, traffic between the For example, for this server on the left to through three switches. And then to reach this other server it once So, that's spine-leaf architecture. It's also very simple to scale, because add another leaf switch and connect it to As with all topics in the CCNA, there is a than what I just mentioned, but make sure for the CCNA exam, and you should be set. Now let's move on to the final topic. That final topic is SOHO networks. Small Office/Home Office, also called SOHO a small home office with few devices. Now, it doesn't actually have to be used If your home has a network connected to the SOHO networks don't have complex needs, provided by a single device which is often There is no need for a dedicated device for This one device can serve as a router, connecting Also a switch, as there are usually a few to. Also there are usually simple firewall functions, coming from the outside network, but to allow devices. It also serves as a wireless access point, for example, to the network using WiFi. Also in some cases it can serve as a modem the modem is a separate device. Here's an example of a simple home router, For very small networks, there's no need a device dedicated to switching, a device This one device can do it all. So, although an enterprise network would have combines them all into one small device. Now, throughout this course we are focusing Very small companies or home offices don't to hire a dedicated network engineer. So, they often just rent a wireless router Here's a review of what we covered in this First, traditional 2-tier and 3-tier LAN architecture. Make sure you know the three layers, access Then I introduced spine-leaf architecture, Again, make sure you know the basic rules Finally we took a brief look at SOHO, Small They are small networks that typically have with routing, switching, security, and wireless As always, watch until the end of the quiz ExSim for CCNA, my recommended practice exams Okay, let's go to quiz question 1. Which Layer typically serves as the boundary 2-tier or 3-tier network? Pause the video now to select the best answer. The answer is B, distribution. Typically, the connections from access layer run spanning tree protocol. The connections from distribution to core So, the distribution layer serves as the boundary Okay, let's go to question 2. Which of the following would you NOT expect 3-tier LAN? Pause the video now to select the best answer. Okay, the answer is B, STP, spanning tree Because the connections at the Core Layer not be running in the core layer. Okay, let's go to question 3. At which layer would you expect to find PoE-enabled Pause the video now to select the best answer. Okay, the answer is A, Access. Devices that use PoE like wireless access all connect to the access layer, so that's Okay, let's go to question 4. In a Spine-Leaf architecture, which of the switch? Pause the video now to select the best answer. The answer is B, a leaf switch. Endpoints like servers can connect to leaf to all spine switches, but leaf switches should Okay, let's go to question 5. Which of the following functions might be router? Pause the video now to select the best answer. Okay, the answer is F. A wireless router, network device that can provide routing, switching, a small network. This kind of device is often used in SOHO, Okay, that's all for the quiz. Now let's take a look at a bonus question There are supplementary materials for this There is a flashcard deck to use with the There will also be a packet tracer practice In this case, although we didn't cover any opportunity to demonstrate an important concept spanning tree protocol and FHRPs such as HSRP. That will be in the next video. To get the free flashcards and lab files for description. Before finishing today's video I want to To join, please click the 'Join' button Thank you to Khoa, Dragos, Tanvir, Charlesetta, Anand, Pavel, Abraham, Serge, Njoku, Viktor, Donald, Gustavo, Prakaash, Nasir, Erlison, Software, Devin, Yonatan, and Vance. Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly, This is the list of JCNP-level members at 2021. If you signed up recently and your name isn't videos. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel, like the with anyone else studying for the CCNA. If you want to leave a tip, check the links I'm also a Brave verified publisher and accept Brave browser. That's all for now.