This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. Watch thousands of high-quality documentaries using the link in the description. In 1940, a team of American explorers set of the planet, traveling thousands of kilometers Antarctica no human had ever seen before. A place so remote and inhospitable, many earlier ended in tragedy. But unlike earlier attempts, the Americans exploration machine. A 37 ton mobile base which will sustain a and sleep in isolation for an entire year. This is the Antarctic Snow Cruiser. Designed to push through the harshest conditions And it'll end up as one of history's greatest Before 1939, only two expedition teams had And only one of them made it back out alive. Because temperatures in Antarctica can fall Winds of two or even three hundred kilometers 14 million square kilometers of icefields unfit for human life. But underneath the frozen landscape lies the oil and mineral reserves. And by 1939, the World's powers had begun But missing from this map of Antarctic claims While American explorers had made inroads expeditions. To make their own claim on Antarctica, the official presence. So in 1939, U.S. President Roosevelt launched In the fall of that year, two ships, carrying sail for Antarctica in the largest American Their mission would be to explore previously two new field bases on either side of Antarctica. The expedition would bring a host of exploration Antarctic Snow Cruiser. Nothing like it had ever been built before. The size of a small building, and would even who would live and work onboard it for up to The Snow Cruiser would have a special role. It's crew would travel thousands of kilometers From there, they'd continue Eastwards to In effect laying the groundwork for an American News of the expedition made the headlines, it's daring mission that would capture the Designed by Chicago's Armour Institute of like something out of a Jules Verne novel. To traverse the rough polar landscape, engineers which would help absorb the shock of the unforgiving When faced with a seemingly impassable ice retract its wheels and use it's large front Allowing it to cross ice crevices up to four To travel reliability for months on end, the hybrid drivetrain. Instead of driving the Cruiser directly, diesel inside each wheel hub. This space saving design would do away with promising to be more reliable. To combat frigid temperatures, coolant from cabin to heat interior spaces, and in extreme hydraulically retracted wheels. The Antarctic Snow Cruiser would carry enough year. And feature spaces for it's five explorers It would even carry it's own biplane to of kilometers of Antarctic territory. With the Snow Cruiser, the Americans would than all previous expeditions combined. When the Cruiser rolled out it's assembly to greet it. But things were about to unravel. Although research and design of the Snow Cruiser of 1939 that a decision was made to use it That left just six months to finish design around the clock. And the Cruiser rolled out of its assembly to be loaded onto expedition ships waiting machine's capabilities. Instead the Cruiser would be driven 1,600 kilometers trip to work out any issues. With all the excitement and press, the cross-country But it would also prove to be more difficult than In Fort Wayne, Indiana, just a few days into things, heavy rains. Which made roads too slippery to continue. Soon after, the Cruiser lost control and careened days trying to get it unstuck. It was an embarrassing start for a supposedly most difficult terrain on earth. A hydraulic line failure and a small fender But worst of all was the realization of just It should have been able to travel at speeds But it struggled to reach even a fraction The problem was, each of it's electric wheel It meant that altogether the 37 ton Cruiser it forward. And wherever the slow moving machine went, Outside of Boston, it caused the world's Backing up 70,000 cars. But on November 12, the cruiser finally arrived The drive was supposed to have taken 8 days. Instead it took nearly 3 weeks. The Cruiser struggled so much on smooth paved ready for the expedition. But with so much excitement and publicity, On November 15, 1939 the most ambitious American But for the Snow Cruiser, things were about The mishaps would continue as soon as the real problems, were only just beginning Having been built in only 11 weeks over a Cruiser would see snow for the very first And immediately it looked out of its element. While the Cruiser had proven itself on highways, underpowered. But the real problem were the tires. Designed to absorb impacts and to be virtually smooth. And in the Antarctic snow, they spun hopelessly. Meaning a machine built to conquer mountain The decision to use smooth tires is perplexing But with such a tight development timeline, existing tire design specifically built for Cutting threads into the tires might have But designers figured they'd just fill up Not that they had time to test the theory In a desperate effort to solve traction problems, doubled up the front wheels with spares. But it made little difference. After weeks of struggling, it was obvious unequal weight distribution. Driving the Cruiser backwards actually turned moving. So that's what they did. On its longest trek the Cruiser managed to around the landing base. But driving in reverse severely limited the And there was no way it could make it all The expedition team eventually admitted defeat as a stationary laboratory. The expedition would continue without the With the Second World War looming, the entire returned home. After the War, the world had changed and conquest out of favour. The abandoned Snow Cruiser was last spotted meters of snow. Today, the machine's whereabouts are unknown. It's either still buried under sheets of and sunk to the bottom of the ocean. In the end, the Antarctic Snow Cruiser had was a machine that had been over designed Extreme optimism had seemingly been its design This is the SR-71 Blackbird, the world's For years, the Blackbird could operate anywhere But the legendary spy plane would eventually This is the MiG-31. Designed to intercept any threat. It's one and holds the absolute world record for altitude. It's phased array radar can track multiple And just four MiG-31s can defend an area of In a few weeks, I'll be releasing my next It's just one of a growing number of exclusive Nebula is where Youtube's top educational where you can enjoy videos without advertisements The best part about Nebula is that it's A streaming service with thousands of big If you want to learn more about the fascinating Icemen: 200 years in Antarctica and learn deadly abyss. Get an entire year of both CuriosityStream curiositystream.com/mustard and use the promo