Everybody knows who Hello Kitty is. Even though she's just the funny little gained an absurd worldwide popularity. She's in cartoons, she's in video games, and there are two entire theme parks fully Sanrio Puroland in Tokyo, There's Hello Kitty and even a Hello Kitty-themed airline Because of the worldwide success of her and of course there are tons of cute, to cursed, to utterly absurd. Almost any product you can think of But before we get into the weird products, In 1973, the Yamanashi Silk and started designed original First, they created Colo-chan, then, they designed Hello Kitty herself in 1974, Little Twin Stars and My Melody in 1975, and they just kept designing more where they apparently have over 450 of them. Some of their other most popular Cinnamoroll, which debuted in 2001, Pompompurin, from 1996, Kuromi, from 2005, and Gudetama from 2013. As the popularity of these TV shows, video games, and products, All the while Hello Kitty remained There are a lot of these little be focusing on Hello Kitty products, along the way will also be included. Same as the SpongeBob video, toys/miscellaneous, technology, and food. First up, we'll talk about the foods. There's basically infinite Hello Kitty snacks so here are the most In 2006, a Hello Kitty Pop-Tart It has pink frosting, and an I honestly can't tell what most There's a few Hello Kitty Cereals, such as the Kellogg's Hello Kitty the pink color of the cereal. There's also the basic Hello Kitty and the rest of them just aren't There's some Hello Kitty Fruit Snacks classic fully-opaque gummy style, and some more released by Kellogg's. Usually, branded fruit snacks come out ones do a pretty good job at looking right. On the other side of the spectrum, we have The Hello Kitty nugget just looks like an Also, what the frick is this A much better Hello Kitty meal with the Hello Kitty Pastas and pasta sauce. I don't know why this is Hello Kitty Also, the pastas themselves do a And finally, there's some weird Hello Kitty and that's about it. I couldn't really find that many weird Hello so let's move on to toys/miscellaneous. In 2018, Bandai collaborated with the line of puzzles called the &quot;Charaction Cube&quot;. It featured a wide variety of characters and there's a total of five Hello Kitty, My Melody, Cinnamon I bought the Hello Kitty one to try out, look like a weird reskin of a 2x2 Rubik's so it's actually a completely different puzzle. It's honestly really fun to play with, and such as Snowman Hello Kitty, Biblically Accurate Hello Kitty, Biblically Accurate Hello Kitty, x2 Biblically-- Something interesting I found out is a similar official Hello Kitty Rubik's This one actually had full 2x2 it as &quot;Professor Rubik's Cube&quot;. I really wanna try this thing out, get one for a reasonable price. In 2021, Mattel released a including Hello Kitty, Keroppi, and Gudetama. Then, in 2022, they did My As usual with Hotwheel character and creatively use the character traits. I, personally, own the Hello Kitty one, Coincedentally, only a few months ago, called Astral Hello Kitty Over Revolve'-0. I couldn't believe this thing actually Yup, it definitely exists! Also, did the designers really Here's a video of me spinning it, because... well obviously, I'm gonna do that. In 2002, a very obscure collab took place, where McDonalds, Hello Kitty, all collaborated to make some plushies. The gimmick of these plushies is that not but it's a reversible plushie that can Some turn into burgers, and there's also a My Melody And if you think that's the end of oh boy, are you so wrong. There's an entire line of Hello Kitty plushies such as pizza, cooked turkey, hotdog, I don't know why but there's still even more The brand Kidrobot is known for plushies* with goofy ahh faces on them. Not gonna lie, most of And recently, they made a Hello Kitty french and random Sanrio characters are the fries. They also made a set of Sanrio and a set of Sanrio ice cream cone plushies. Also, in 2022, there was an official where you could buy a Hello Kitty or and a mustache to put on the plushie. They also made a bunch of other random products, and on this one, she says &quot;I'm dying for Pringles!&quot; And if you think this collaboration What about the Hello Kitty + Evangelion collab, And if THAT wasn't enough, what about WITH EVEN MORE RANDOMLY GENERATED PRODUCTS! Hello Kitty + Rurouni Kenshin? Yep, we got that too. Hello Kitty + Naruto? Of course that's a thing! What are you talking about? Hello Kitty Gundam? Why not? Hello Kitty KFC Christmas-themed collab? That definitely exists too! It comes with a custom fried Sanrio toy train for some reason. I swear to god, in the future, literally Hello Kitty product, even Oh, never mind, that already This is actually real, by the way. It was released by the Italian company Agip Moving on to some more miscellaneous masking tape sets, but for some reason, There's Hello Kitty, Little Twin My Melody, Kuromi, Pochacco, and one with multiple characters. There's even more Hello Kitty like this pencil sharpener, There's been many different here's the most interesting ones. These Nike shoes come with a matching Asics also made a really good pink and blue, black and pink, This one by Bathing Ape Reebok made this epic Hello Kitty shoe They also made some fluffy Hello and come in a few different colors. And obviously, the most stylish one of them all: The Hello Kitty Crocs. And now, we have the terrifying When I first saw this thing, I thought apparently has a Sanrio tag on it with The year on the tag also says 2014, But other than that, I can't really find It's so weird looking! Why did they think this was a good idea? There's also a series of weird I also found this Hello And, finally, we have the This thing just looks really cursed, Let's move on to the technology section, and start out with the beautiful This set was only released in Japan in The Dreamcast itself had and the controller has a Hello This set also came with a full keyboard Of course, if you wanna play games on the Hello Good thing there's many Hello Kitty CRT screens They also come with their own Hello While we're still on the topic of insanely rare Hello Kitty Mission This was released in 2005, and one of these was to apparently buy And even then, only 550 were produced, so there was probably many people that The final official Hello Kitty console The Game Boy Pocket and the Game Boy the Game Boy Advance SP had a and the normal Game Boy Advance Usually, I don't show custom-made is so funny, I just had to show it. Hell naw, Hello Kitty is trippin'! -- But console gaming is You could also make a full Hello We can start out by using the official along with the cute Razer headphones Razer also made a mouse, which a mousepad, and a Sanrio Now, this is already enough but let's take a look at some other In the mouse category, there's a Hello Kitties swimming around inside. I also found a Little Twin Stars water mouse. There's this really uncomfortable-looking mouse, Apparently, the two sides of the bow I don't know how you could use this There's also this one for My and this star-shaped In the SpongeBob video, I talked and coincidentally, they've also There's Hello Kitty, two designs for a three different Cinnamoroll keyboards, a While researching for this video, I keyboard, and I had to buy a new one, so I just bought the Cinnamoroll one, There's also some old keyboards of And finally, that concludes all of the If you want to plug in any of your Hello gonna want a Hello Kitty power strip. These ones are pretty cute, but you can I hate that this is actually an official What's more scary is that they did Just stop, please! Of course, we got the Hello Kitty all of which attempts to Emphasis on &quot;attempts to.&quot; The Hello Kitty Waffle Maker comes in pink The waffles themselves on the other hand? Well... let's just not talk about that. Adding on to the Hello Kitty food Hello Kitty Popcorn Maker, where she There's two different Hello Kitty character trait is that she loves In 2020, a Hello Kitty-themed where you could actually hang if you want to do some math, of course There's a few really cute ones, like the Hello There's a science Hello Kitty calculator, this one with heart buttons, but then there's just this These ones are also just downright ugly! Like, I'm not a calculator critic, but damn! I also found this one, that has a 3D These calculators are by the and, of course, there's one where We need to stop doing this with I also found calculators for And for good measure, here's The final piece of Hello Kitty technology There's so many of them released over the years, They're just primitive handheld Well, that's all the weird so thanks for watching this video, make sure to like and subscribe if you enjoyed, or support me in other ways if you feel like it. Also, comment down below your ok bye!!!