Hi I'm Matty, and as of now I'm ranked sixth the official Rubik's cube competition organizer. And I will teach you how to solve And I am Milan, also known as CubeHead on YouTube, and I'll be joining you guys today going over some of the mistakes I Good luck to you! I guess we can start by using a Let's start by going over the It doesn't matter what kind of 3x3 you I will be using this Speed Cube. * epic boss move * This is a center piece and On modern Rubik's Cubes, white So no matter how much I turn it, * What is happening? * white is still opposite of yellow. This is an edge piece which has two colors. This is a corner piece which has three colors. The goal when solving a Rubik's cube is First, let's start by solving a white cross The easiest way to do this is by first like shown here. You might be able to figure out but I'll show you how to do it. We're only going to focus on Some pieces require only one And this one also only requires only one move. However, sometimes pieces like this flipped, require multiple moves. You can bring it down and then Then for this edge piece you because it pushes this edge Instead what you do is bring the to go above it and then replace this, with this. To turn this Daisy into a correct white cross, we need to align the side colors of the Let's start with this one. This is orange. Turn here, this is green, this doesn't match. This is orange, it does match. The next step is to bring this white piece down We just do the same for all white edge Okay I'm going to start by placing this * That's a corner bro. * Oh yeah, okay I'm going to start by putting Now we're going to solve the white corners into their correct position thus To do this, you will need to learn two simple algorithms They are really simple so don't worry. You got this! The first one we're going to call the you turn the right side clockwise, the top clockwise, the right side counterclockwise, and the top counterclockwise. The second algorithm we're going to call first, you turn the left the top counterclockwise, the left side clockwise, and the top clockwise. Practice both algorithms until Holding the white cross on the bottom, we're going to find a corner piece in like this one. Now look at the other two because the two colors are blue and orange, we're going to find the blue and and place the corner in So now it's on top of the Looking at the corner piece, if white faces to the left: then we hold the corner on the left and do a Lefty Algorithm. This solves the corner. If white faces to the right: we hold the corner on the right side and do a Righty Algorithm. This solves the corner. If white faces up: we hold it to the right and do three Righty Algorithms. This solves the corner piece. You just do the same steps for all If you cannot find any corner pieces and the first layer is not solved yet, look for an incorrect white Then hold it on the right side of This takes out the corner piece Okay so now we hold the cross at the bottom, we It faces to the left, so Lefty Algorithm... * That's the wrong spot dude! * Oh! So this one has green and orange in it, so now it faces to the left, we hold it to the left and do a Lefty Algorithm. Now we're going to solve the edges on top of To do this, we hold the white cross at the bottom again and look for edges in the Like this one. Now we're going to look at the color on the Now while facing the edge, we need if it needs to go left, like this edge, we use the upper layer to move the edge piece then we do a Lefty Algorithm. This takes out the corner. Then we can proceed and insert this We look at the corner, we see so we put the corner on the right This solves the corner again as well as the edge. If the edge needs to go to the right: we use the upper layer and turn the edge then we do a Righty Algorithm. This takes out the corner. Then we can just insert it like we learned before. This solves the corner again, as well as the edge. Do this for all edges in the top If there are no edges in the and the second layer is not yet solved, we look for an edge without Let's say this one. Then you insert a yellow edge in that position. This takes this edge out of the second layer and we can then proceed and All right, let's look for edges here we have one. Okay so this piece needs to go here, so we put it one away... * You didn't align the edge yet! * Oh yeah that's right! Let's first align the edge so it is like this, it needs to go to the left, one turn away, Lefty Algorithm, and then insert this corner. Now we only need to solve the last But beware, if at any point from now you have to disassemble your cube and We're going to start by creating by looking at the pattern of yellow edges. If there is already a yellow cross If you have a line on your cube: you're going to rotate the top like Then you turn the front side clockwise, you do a Righty Algorithm, and you turn the front counter clockwise. And there's yellow cross. If your cube has a hook on it: you're going to rotate the top so you're going to rotate the front clockwise, you're going to do two Righty Algorithms, and finally turn the front counterclockwise. And there's the yellow cross. If you have a dot case, then you do the same This creates a hook, then then All right, so I'm done with my first two layers... * BuT wAiT a MiNuTe * There's just one edge facing up! So I have to reassemble my cube. All right, let's scramble it again and start over. Now we need to put the edges of the like I'm showing here. To do so, you'll need to learn For this algorithm, we're going to keep Start by putting the pair in the top layer, take it out of its slot Then put the pair in the back, put its slot into the top layer, then fix the white side. Do this algorithm a couple of Start by aligning as many edges to their If you can match all of them, like Right now, none of them are aligned, All right so now I have one, If the aligned edges are across do a Sune holding yellow on top. Then you should be able to align two If the edges are next to each other: hold them in the back and right and do a Sune. Now this time you should be We just need to solve the yellow We will need one more easy For this algorithm, we're going to First bring the right pair up, put it in the back. Then bring the left pair up Now we can solve the right pair again, and finally insert this pair back This was one Niklas. Do this algorithm a couple more To see if a corner is in its correct spot, If they match the colors of the edges next Here the corner is not in the correct spot: However, if you look at this corner: this is in the correct spot because this blue matches with this blue and this When there are no corners in the correct realign the edges and then you should If you have one corner in the correct spot: you hold the correct corner in If we then align the edges again you will or you'll have to do one more Niklas. Align the edges and here we go. All of the corners are in the correct spots. Now we only need to flip the To do so, we will flip the cube upside down and solve each corner one by one. Start by holding the cube in a way that the Then we can do Righty Algorithms That's one... and then it is solved. Once this corner is solved, turn the bottom layer. !! Don't rotate the cube !! Keep it here, turn the bottom layer until another Then repeat the Righty Algorithms That's one and here it is solved. So now we can rotate the bottom layer again. But here we see this corner is already solved, Do Righty Algorithms until this solves now. There's one, and then we can just realign the bottom layer, and the cube is solved. LET'S GOOOOOOOOOOO All right so I'm at my last step But wait, can I not just do... Congrats solving your first Rubik's cube, once you're used solving the check the video in the top left corner If you ever want to buy yourself a Speed Cube, make sure to visit &quot;thecubicle.com&quot; and use Become a member! :)