Defying the laws of physics perched on one of Europe's highest is the Loneliest and one of As you can imagine reaching it is no simple feat but a treacherous and dangerous multi-day Journey that takes patience expertise I Just dodged falling down that Fuchking Mountain. Drawn to the mystery of this 100-year-old structure wondering what it must be like inside Ammar and I alongside our Swiss videographer and our Italian expert had been scheming our Ascent together for months now. And as soon asthe weather window was open it was time for us to strike. Well rain Isn't Sopromising for start of a trip like this, Ammar also missed his flight, We have quitea drive to do to go and then the summit begins tomorrow. what up how's it going - Good, how are you? And so after a 2-hour drive we arrived at I'm not the most experienced Mountain Man Have you already gone? No, never. And soon met up with our missing teammate. Let's take a little detour. Ready to Summit of 14,000 ft Mountain? Let's do it. I'm not ready but let's do it. How's your physical shape right now? It's been a month of 100 days Sweat so, better than a month ago but But it's all it's just what you tell yourself. It shouldn't be the most technical. Yeah. We're so far it's looking like I just don't understand how we're going to ski down. I don't understand how most of this will work, because apparently we're so, I don't even know. - Here we go. How we feeling team? - Finally together! Wow! Nice little trip for us go It must be amazing for you like 9 Do you know if if Joe is joining us? Who's Joe? When was the last time you climbed the mountain? Yeah, 2 years ago. Well, I guess it was the cabin right? Thomas only climbs mountains It's way more fun though like isn't this epic that this is the highest building in all of Europe. The name of the Refuge turn Hotel the highest building in all of Europe, it is also higher than the hotel currently holding the Guinness World Record Maybe because it's only open a few months in the year, but the construction of this hut was directed Long before anyone had any fancy climbing equipment and was opened in 1893 in the to whom the Hut was dedicated. The same Queen Margarita that the margarita Funnily enough the margarita Hut also The Hut served as an important and was restored to its current structure in 1977. Today serving as a refuge and bucket list So Habibs it would be good if you It would just be good, I would just ... You're funny all the time dude . Get out of here. All right, on on the flight here I and for this climb and what came to mind because actually this week 9 years ago was the week that was which was basically the and allowed us to still be together today, so I'm very much looking forward to and the different moments you Now we go to bed and tomorrow we climb. I just don't know how cold it's going to be, I guess we got to get dressed up I think so yeah. Thank's I'm Ammar. Nice to meet you. This guy looks ready. How are you? Nice to mee you. Is this okay game I can do that. Can I show you some stuff? I promise I'm more prepared than this. Like I have thinner gloves. But then I also have these Yes. How cold is it going to is it going to get? Maximum is minus- 10 I think. Okay yeah, it's very cold. - The worst weather is today. Tomorrow better, Thursday is super good. Great and Thursday in the Yeah we ski down. Okay tomorrow we have All right. We are confronted with two major the first is the altitude at that height the available level of oxygen it usually takes days or weeks to a climatize properly and even then serious major headaches or hypoxia and set in and evacuation is immediately necessary. The second HIIT in danger are the crevasses, almost impossible to see often crevasses are giant holes in In fact on this very climb just a few years ago, a son stepped a few feet away and fell down never to make it out alive. Which is why we've brought Jewels having worked 17 years in the Italian army training the special forces in skiing and mountaineering, he has summited hundreds of So we are not going to leave anything up to chance. Rain wasn't on my bingo card to start this adventure I'm not sure how safe feel going into that. - Freaking. Luckily we have helped from some from zero to 4 and half thousand, I think that would take us a lot longer than 2 days. And it begins. It's already chillier up here J People here have died from because I've been complaining To get to this cabin we've on this first one we're trekking up to the hut. located at an altitude of 3,647 meters. We'll spend the night there to a climatize and then begin the most challenging part of the He's got like 25 chocolate bars with them, It'll be okay. Oh my God! Two opposing reactions coming out of that. Let's do it. Dude we can't even see anywhere. Hey guys join us in this inventure into nowhere land. This looks pretty dramatic right now. There's nobody else going up right now, maybe that's a good thing maybe we'll everybody just went down, everybody's leaving. This weather is not at all common for June, but as Europe has seen records of rainfall this summer the mountains have been seeing their own share How long have you known Yes Theory? Las couple years, a bit more so I saw your trip through Iraq Oh amazing! That's awesome, I love the - What's your name? - Kiehl and you? - I'm Ammar yes It's always amazing because in we get to meet other people who watch Yes it's like an expectation that no matter how big someone along the way who is so, yeah it's pretty it's pretty nice. Everybody was leaving so, the only other people I saw so that tells you about who who our audience is these are the kind of people I have an unbiased view but I and adventurous audience on YouTube. You watching you're pretty damn awesome and if you're not subscribed Hit a like support us if you feel compelled to do - Are you ready? Let's do it. I'm not used to my skis sticking out like that. Okay. I'm already wet from when I fell that was dumb. You can already feel the altitude, I don't know what the oxygen levels are here but we're already at believe I think that's thesilent invisible and of any mountaineering unfortunately we have a cold let's keep this beautiful journey going. Mountain is steep as hell and We've got a long way to go all the way around there. I'm so out of breath, these two nights we're going to I'm sure as hell damn no I'll if that ain't worth it, I don't know what is. We're in the middle of June and this is this is what we got. Can we get the snowmobile please? Thomas looks so cheerful right now, he looks so happy right now. Are you kidding? No, you look miserable. The first day was meant to be more of a warm-up. You're back and you're in the snow. But the rain and slush pulled for one of the bigger dangers at hand the prases and once you start sliding it's hard to stop. well just dodged falling down that Mountain completely wet gloves but I'm not going to go fetch mine at just yet we are approaching the first cabin for the night up there? not this first one the one up that mountain. I'm t sure how long you will will take us to get up there, this was meant to be the lighter day and I'm soaked and more tired than I thought I was going to be, I'm just slightly anxious about what tomorrow awaits. Getting to the first Refuge took us longer than expected, all our gear was now unfortunately soaking wet and the lack of oxygen makes it feel we never get enough air into our lungs. My heart is pounding. I don't know if I've ever been this high in my life. I'm all right, I'm all right. we are just arriving now to where we're going having just traveled to Peru like 6 weeks ago and experienced pretty much like the most I think I'm doing well right now, but we'll see tomorrow tomorrow is That was significantly more challenging than I thought it was going to be. Wow look at this Alpine Lake! Oh my God! This is even the final destination it's already epic look at that. I think tomorrow we're doing like four So should be a good time. Epically exhausted, epically exhausting. It's a big home. I was not expecting this up here It takes what 4 hours to get out there? Normally 5 hours. So what time we start? 5:30 5:30 we start the like out the door. so at what time do we have breakfast? 4:30 I'm more so less excited about the 4:30 breakfast? but I'm going to keep the complaints to myself. I'm also here to go climb a mountain so I can sleep when I'm down. Having been in this or Haven climbed before, you you're going to wake up at 3:30 a.m. counting down the time where we can with absolutely nothing to do because you you it's really as you said like five will be your max. Like we're not going to force we're just going to be out. So wake up at 4:30 or breakfast? Wake up ... What are we talking here? Do I have 15 minutes? Wow! I hope you are enjoying this journey to the final incredible cabin I just wanted to take a moment to allowing us to do trips like this '' Better help '' ''Better help'' is the world's that is 100% online and is able no matter how remote you are in the world, it makes starting therapy so much easier by allowing you to do it or a phone call whatever '' Better help'' can match you to one in their network based on and can usually Mash you All you need to do to get about what you need and what and then better help will match To support the channel and type in Yes Theory during sign up or visit better help.com/yestheory. and join over 4 million people to live healthier and happier lives. Okay now let's get to the top of this mountain. - Good morning. I think I slept like 30 minutes that I've never slept at this altitude before, your body just doesn't it's like I'm just wide awake. How did you sleep? Did you sleep? 6:00 a.m. We're going to push to the summit today we're and I couldn't think of better It's so still ... We're going up there yeah, that's pretty steep. At least we have better weather than yesterday. After 12... The bad weather comes So we got to hurry up. What time is it? - Okay we go. What time is it? All right let's go. Steady steady is fast, oh steady steady is fast. Ammar had some issues with his skis in a turn he slipped and the ski popped out getting some help from Jules, he seemed to be recovering now, but once you fall out of the and it's very easy to slip down and Close one, my ski almost We've been going for a few hours now, it's not just the physical but also just uh trying to keep up with or a lot of snow and rain So we're a little bit in a rush to and hopefully tomorrow where the world's highest We're in the final push right now, if it's clear we'd be able to see the hotel from here but this is what we get. I mean this entire bit and you think that that was it only to see another Hill on top of that Hill. I just realized like every time I how long it's going to take me to so the best is just step by step We're almost there. so what? 200 meters? 300 meters. 300 meters going up and we're there and the pizza awaits. it's all I'm thinking about. Are you okay? I have to like take risks for my heart because going on a on a Yeah it's impossible. There it is! Oh my God! Wow! Just for the ascent Yes the final Ascent before pizza and beer. The real pizza margarita. Exactly wow! There's such a rush to you pushing and then you get here and whatever you don't even remember it anymore All right let's finish this. Let's finish this. We made it, some more enthusiasm. Well done boys, well done. Wow yeah, we did it! Get in here. Welcome to margarita house. - Well done buddy. I can't think straight. Wow! this is stunning. - How long did we make? Nice. Dude this the highest this week we were making first video we've ever posted. This was tough. This was harder than I but the View tomorrow morning is going to be absolutely insane All right let's check out Entrance I guess, is for the engine. We should put up our poles. So it's not a lot up here Oh my god! Is it usually like this in June ? No, no. So this is... This Jun we have a lot of lot of snow. Just like yesterday we are covered in clouds, we will have to appreciate the View Hi, how are you? Wow smells amazing! - Pizza at this altitude. I think there something about and the way the dough Rises that gives it... Yeah. Welcome to Capanna Regina Margherita. Let's do a walkthrough tour my friends, come on. So here all of the wet ski gear, This wonderful gentleman We have our guy Jules taking care of our skis How we looking? The room is the winter hut. Winter hut. When the the hut is closed in case of emergency. Wow! Do people come up here - Yes. Sometimes yes. So this is like the only part this open which we contemplated Let's go check out the rest, This is the reception and very beloved despresso machine in fact, kitchen with amazing staff and I can't possibly understand for 10 to 14 days basically and then they go down I'm assuming they have to so every two weeks they're doing that trek. I guess you get used to it after a while and then there's a big open room here this is like the main I think we're about 20 people - We have a Yes theory subscriber here. Oh we have our local Egyptian, - First Egyptian to make it here. Cup of tea, great test of my life, the most well earned at least. Okay let's go check out the rooms. This is just the first floor and every room has like six to a lovely bathroom, this is it with the smell, with the lovely smell. This is what the whole floor this puts into perspective how huge this place is this is ours room number 8, it's a bit of a mess in here smells like some people have been yeah we still haven't really what the view looks like so all with an epic descent for what's So I feel very lucky to be in and I look forward to because everything we've d so far has been delish. For the vegetarians only, okay, three vegetarians people. Good morning. Just woke up to the greatest view of my life. Check this out. And so ladies and gentlemen welcome to one of the most Oh my God ! This is the craziest Sunrise I've ever seen. Look at that. 4.5 thousand meters up in the sky, worth every headache just to Wow this is incredible! Wow! - Not bad. That is the definition of breathtaking. Oh my God! We hadn't seen how steep it was and now we are seeing how insane whoever came up here and was The things they did for kings and queens man. Yeah look at that. This thing is just sitting on the edge of that. How has it survived 100 years? it's the greatest morning, I've ever had waking up anywhere in my life. We struggled to various degrees so pretty excited to be heading We were rewarded with the after having worked for it yesterday and now we're going to go on the all the way down to our car. So let's go. Let's do it. Wow I can't believe we're heading but this view was a 1000 % worth it. Let me look around look around. Save your energy man. I had never personally struggled but the headache and pain was easily for the uajestic and mesmerizing experience of spending a night at the very top of Europe. Ammar and I hadn't gotten an adventure and it's safe to say that the day this will go down as one of the we'll have shared together. Time to ski now. For the best most rewarding All the way. As we are in the start of we're forever grateful for you your and I'm of course grateful for my brothers who are still here sharing meaningful stories All right we'll see you next week. We made it. Oh my God what a journey! - I love you. I can feel my brain again.