[MUSIC PLAYING] As we've seen before gravity affects the motion So if gravity from is really responsible for is water, then why don't Guess what? Whatever you believe about is probably wrong, even In fact, every YouTube video including ones made explains the tides incorrectly. Typically, they show with an explanation that The moon's gravity is and weaker at Point B than The net effect of of the Moon's gravity is to stretch the ergo why the oceans bulge along the Earth/Moon line. Now, that explanation and a lot of well known but as we'll see, Don't get me wrong. The facts are correct. There really is a from the Moon at points A and B. model, there would be two of the Earth/Moon line. Plus, if Earth could rotate with no friction between then at a given you would experience as you pass through each bulge as you pass through the spots All of that is true. What's wrong is the They aren't actually by that gravitational Something much more that even many professional misunderstand-- including So don't feel bad. Tides are tricky. But today, we're going to and, in the process, understand has tides, but lakes, bathtubs, So right up front, I want to simplify the analysis factors from the picture. That way, we can better really causing the tides. Here we go. Assumption one-- we're going It's not that Einstein He can. But curved spacetime without actually Assumption two-- For simplicity, we'll focus only The Sun's effects are going Assumption three-- we're is uniformly covered and no continents. And finally, going to pretend that we can and off whenever we want to. You got it? OK. Let's take a closer look at and how it manifests of a frame of reference Forget about the and just imagine two at opposite ends of the Earth's line. Turn off Earth's gravity. What happens to the blocks? Well, relative to a frame Block A accelerates than Earth's center accelerates toward the B. So from the perspective will separate from if acted on by some That weird invisible is called the tidal force. And in Newtonian It's an artifact of Remember, Earth itself is so according to Newton, Now, if you need a refresher you can check out our But the bottom line is the tidal force looks like along the Earth/Moon line. And here's the thing. Just like the fake forces that train car, tidal forces should the surface identically, An object's resulting relative to Earth's surface is of that object, and it should and a pony. But if that's true, the tidal can't be raising or that lie along that line. Because if that were the should also be lifted so should sand Remember, the object's Well, we don't see things More important, the math being lifted doesn't work out. The tidal acceleration to the Moon's differential line works out to only and you can't lift something by that's 10 million times Plus, even if you turned you would never notice of one micron per Nevertheless, those bulges So if the ocean isn't then how do they get there? The key is to look at the tidal are not on the Earth/Moon line. For instance, a block is going to be pulled But of course, the whole Earth chasing after the block. So relative to the the block's tidal acceleration in other words, down. In fact, if we map out the that you'd see at different they look like this. As you can see, act like anti-gravity if you're At most places, largely tangent to would push water sideways. Now, we've drawn these to help you visualize them. But in reality, Remember, the radially caused by Earth's own is 10 million times bigger. However, the surface is also enormous, so those on all the chunks over half the can produce a pretty decent So I think you can start to The ocean isn't being Instead, thanks to the everywhere else, it's being line and piling up there. Basically, the moon is into a planet sized and the ocean is bulging in the same way that will bulge up in the to squeeze it from the side. So why don't lakes have tides? Well, largely for that it's very hard to pop small hydraulics. See, unlike the is not a contiguous, Lakes just don't have enough to build up enough pressure Now technically, like Lake Michigan can generate enough pressure with a couple of between low and high tide. But since winds and boats will all create ripples that those mini tides just The same is true for any a swimming pool, a bathtub, a a big sack of water-- and all experience tides. They're just microscopic. Also, remember that Earth So when water in a swimming Earth's surface is also making the change in water of the planet even Now, everything that I've but I think it gets Namely, tides have a lot than they do with taffy. OK. We've got a few First, the Sun-- are analogous to but they're only The Sun is more massive, much further away. Now, when Earth, the Moon, and the effects are additive and you When, instead, they make a there's partial cancellation and Second, in the simple model the math says that the water of a meter between But some places see while other places, like have tidal swings of So why the variations Well, location relative to is certainly part of it. But mostly, it's that nooks affect the details gets distributed through the For example, some that have direct ocean But instead of rising can come in through the inlet called the tidal bore, Also, some variation is just sloshing that's to tides at all. The bottom line details of tides are just kind of complicated. So are other things that like how the rate of Earth's affect each other. For discussions of direct you to other videos and in the description. Finally, Porscher911, once asked how Miller's planet could've had such a huge themselves being I think that other stuff was But nevertheless, when it the squeezing aspect will almost always be more even in the craziest Last week, we on general relativity You guys had a lot that I'll address in a second. But first, a comment about A while back, we did an episode about so-called Now, prior to the at the 2015 NASA a colleague of mine-- from the College had done a very similar talk She and I had been talking for a while, including in and there was a lot of that I wasn't aware of at the If I had been, I would have and I'd like to rectify So down in the description, about alien atmospheres-- it's Apps Challenge, along with from her website. Now to your comments. A lot of you ended up asking Rather than address your I'm going to address asked questions in bulk. A lot of you asked in the following context. You may have heard that forces are described by some kind of particle by the photons, strong and so forth. So if gravity is considered spacetime do people talk about gravitons? That's an excellent question but here's the Thinking about things and thinking about are not necessarily It's just instead of quantizing you're-- that you think you're quantization something the quantum version And it turns out that you You can quantize any as long as you are to looking at large scale things-- and you with general relativity there. It's when you start looking at the quantum version on very small scales that a lot of infinities that you can't get what we don't have a fully version of gravity yet. But from the of quantum field be able to quantize anything. And figuring out how to an unsolved problem in physics. Related to this question, Is it possible, then, other forces like in geometric terms? Well, that's actually been You can look up something called is a way of trying to of electromagnetism But in general, these are two One is trying to which was a big thing in the And the other is to try to take versions of something the machinery of to sort of get a quantized And these two things proceed It's hard to answer these without just throwing and giving you what's not But I don't think there's wouldn't mislead you. You're asking very heavy stuff. A lot of you wanted on how curvature of time for, say, circular orbits around First, remember that I was There's really only You can't really break it up curvatures. That doesn't mean anything. But here's what I did mean. Suppose that you take a frame with clocks-- that frame's and then you work out what the say the geodesics should and you down project So you down project spatial and temporal to that not inertial frame. It turns out that the pieces the things the tell you be-- that resemble-- Newton's laws of a gravitational force-- of the geodesic equation that projected into that frame. That's really all I meant. There's actually some good that I've linked in give you a slightly more Go up to equation 4.22 in A lot of you were about how two points can both be &quot;really&quot; itself is not expanding. Be careful. We're using the word in two different and In the Newtonian would mean put a frame of Use a clock as if that it runs the same relative to that clock, are of two points on Earth's And the answer is, of So in that sense, those two But Einstein says, hold on. In the four-dimensional you need to give something some geometric meaning. And acceleration in is your tangent vector along your worldline? For points on Earth's They're not geodesics. So the way that we have is, is there a that falling frames, like at both those places, are the use as the standard, even in of non-acceleration. Einstein says, you don't You have to do that because it's are &quot;purely&quot; non-accelerating The only reason why with the idea of using a and saying that those two is that that frame that you're using the and so that shouldn't be the are not accelerating. In other words, Einstein of non-acceleration can in small spacetime patches. If you try to talk about you're assuming something mainly that it is a 3D, works the way you it works in 10th grade Finally, I do want to reference Iwon't tellmyname courses he would need to take to He got some answers And then he replied, OK. Great. And I guess I got lots going into eighth grade. That's right. You got lots of time, and you're asking all Keep learning and listening even if it doesn't This stuff takes years getting a head start Glad [MUSIC PLAYING]