Bastard Where did the Eighth Route Army go? Can you speak Chinese? You were the one who let the gun go. Do you know who my father is? My dad is Bastard What's the temper of a silly girl? Where did the Eighth Route Army go? there Chase Fu Jie, Fu Jie The captain is absolutely right. What's the point of being so sympathetic to women? When will you take me home? I'll take you home now. After all, Taijun Yang's family has been taken under his command You and her father and brother all served in the Imperial Army. Things will get out of hand in the future. I'm afraid it's hard to explain. Get out of the way, bastard Let me go Let me go My father works for you Japanese. Let me go Bastard Okay, silly girl, it's okay. It's alright Okay, okay. It's alright It's not what happened to you. Old Cheng, listen to me. You misunderstood. You misunderstood. Don't look at it that way. Go, idiot. This bastard Tubalu, listen to me. As long as you let my wife go We will let bygones be bygones I'll give you a way out. Did you hear that? Niu Guishun You little bastard, listen to me now Your wife is in my hands. You want to force me You're driving me crazy I can't control myself. Women are trouble What are you doing? Walk fast Walk Girl Walk Girl you Don't, don't, don't shoot. Don't Shoot Captain Niu, please don't hurt my little sister She is your daughter-in-law. The unmarried daughter-in-law Can you bear the responsibility of letting the Eighth Route Army go? Don't shoot, girl. It's me. I'm your brother. Wife, don't be afraid The man is here I'll save you in a moment. Don't shoot, girl. Brother is coming Hurry up! Hurry up! Girls Girls elder brother What's wrong girl? What's going on, wife? What's wrong with you What's going on, girl? Captain Niu Nakajima Taikun Nakajima Taikun Nakajima Taikun Nakajima Taikun Niu Guishun Don't take advantage of the situation. Taking advantage of others' misfortune Captain Yang Guangyang Who are you pointing the gun at? Are you familiar with this dress? This is the clothes that Tubalu wore just now. OK Your sister is colluding with the Eighth Route Army Killing Watanabe Taikun's favorite general Major Nakajima Captain Yang Your home is in Qiushuimiao Town I think it's the end of the wait Captain Niu, you can't say that. I I Captain Mingcha Captain Niu is a wise man This has nothing to do with my little sister. Captain Niu Captain Niu Captain Niu Don't be afraid, honey. I'm here. My uncle Which one are you doing? My family Can I turn my elbows outward? * Put down your guns Why do my own family members brandish knives and guns? If there are Eighth Route Army, let's do it. Listen to me Today, this is what happened The Eighth Route Army kidnapped the eldest daughter of the Yang family * Yang Yuying is here He tried to rape the eldest daughter of the Yang family Fortunately, I met Nakajima Taijun passing by. Save Miss Yang But I was alone in the fight with the Eighth Route Army. After several battles He was outnumbered and seriously injured. * I will arrive later * Successfully rescued Nakajima Taikun And Miss Yang Unfortunately, Nakajima Taijun was seriously injured. The rescue was ineffective and he died. Did you hear it clearly? I heard it clearly. Say it again, did you hear me clearly? I heard it clearly. Brother-in-law's wife * Do you think I am right? Right, right, right Taijun Don't Shoot We are the Night Raiders I am Niu Guishun Lao Cheng Lao Cheng Listen to my explanation What to explain? An Eighth Route Army soldier raped a civilian woman It's not what you think OK Old Cheng you She's not a civilian woman. She is the pseudo mayor of Qiushui Temple Yang Derun's daughter She is the daughter of a traitor The daughter of a traitor is also a woman no Okay, I'll explain to the captain. Old Cheng, you must not say anything to the captain. I am What's wrong They must be the puppet soldiers on patrol. Not many people What are you doing? Get started Can't do it. The devils and traitors are looking for us all over the world Looking for you Okay, okay, just come find me. Anyway, we don't care who we look for. You said that if you start fighting If the puppet troops over there fired their guns The devils and traitors will all come out soon What should we do if they surround us? I suggest I go out without a fight. All right, all right I know you are capable That group of puppet soldiers couldn't fire their guns. What if? What if? Shut up Patrol Sir, please don't take pictures. Dazzling Lord, really I am a businessman A businessman passing by This world is too unpeaceful. I was just robbed in the woods. You said that the world is too chaotic now. To the military master I'm asking you about that. How to get to Zhanghe Village? What does Jun Ye mean? Jun Ye The military master really has no money. They were all robbed. Go go go Army Lord Army Lord Just I this The Army is coming Don't dazzle me You see. Anyway, she is not the eldest daughter-in-law Look at me, what's going on? I gave the money to the wrong person. Jun Ye Are you nosy? stop The murderer of Zhouzhuang Massacre Aunt Xiang died in front of him Are you okay? fine You are from the First Battalion of the Eighth Route Army Independent Regiment. Lao Cheng, find a chance to run. The Japs Thanks to you I am now a member of the Eighth Route Army Armed Work Team Why are you scared? You are now part of the armed work team. I've been looking for you for a long time The artillery tower in Zhonglou Town you attacked Isn't that dog-eat-dog? It's you guys If you two can defeat me I'll let you go What nonsense What nonsense are you talking about? You guys are the only ones left Just your stuff I tell you Do you believe that we two can kill all of you? Tubalu is just bad at talking Come quickly I'll fight him in a bit. You retreat first Be careful Need to know You are not facing the Imperial Army now. Not just any ordinary Imperial Japanese Army. Sakamoto Team The best special forces The special forces don't play tricks Come on I believe you, I'll fight you. Don't believe him, old Cheng Lao Cheng very good Walk No need to chase Walk Pull hard Push hard Push me hard Try harder Try your best Try your best I tell you Delayed the transportation of military rations Blame it on the higher-ups We are all in trouble. Do you know? team leader hurry up Push me The captain is not the brothers who don't work hard. This car is too heavy. The captain This midday sky Otherwise, brothers, take a breath and rest for a while. team leader Take a break If you don't want to live anymore, take a break. team leader Push me Captain, look There are horses and horses I just said no one is coming This labor is coming. Pushing here I'll go call someone Okay, Captain Come on brothers Stop, stop, stop Boss, is there anything wrong? A car of the Imperial Army got stuck You guys go over and push the cart. Okay, okay, okay, I'll help you. What do you do? What do you do? hurry up If you are asked to pull the car, pull the car No problem. Listen to me Come quickly Come come come Push the car out for me now. Come One, two, push hard I'm talking about you Push hard Boss, please don't hit me. His hearing is not good, so I told him Try your best Crank the wheel hard and push harder Push well Come one or two push hurry up One Two Go Move, move, move Hurry up! team leader Captain, look at these grandsons. They can't push the car. Captain Captain You see There are two more people in this car. Who is this guy pretending to be a boss in the car for? Go and get them to come down and push the cart for me. yes One, two pushes You try harder One-two push Move, move, move, push Look at me, you won't push me. One, two pushes One, two pushes One, two pushes You two go over and help push the cart. Official Hurry up I'm going, I'm going, I'm going My child is full of diseases. I don't have much strength. Please be so kind as to let him go. You are doing well, sir. Stop talking nonsense to me here. The car can't be pushed out. It's just the strength of the two of you that's missing. I'm telling you Tell him to stop pretending to be sick here. If you don't make any effort I'll give you some strength No, no, no, sir, let's Please forgive him. He is sick A child has no energy. I'm going to your An old thing Hit hard Don't hit my dad. This old thing I shot you and me Sir, stop fighting. Screw you. Official Hit me hard Official What are you doing? Be careful, Tiger I can't help but hit Are you okay, Dad? Uncle, are you okay? fine Get in the car quickly Uncle, please sit down. Don't be afraid We two are from the Eighth Route Army Armed Work Team. Come on folks Come over here come over here These lackeys are going too far Fortunately, you are It gave us a chance to vent our anger. What is this? Folks, it's not safe along the way. If someone checks on the road Let's say we were both from the Eighth Route Army's Armed Workers' Corps. Go away! Go away! Go Go Go I really met a good person today. Thank you Go Go Go Okay Thank you Be safe! Be safe! Goodbye Hero What are you yelling about? team leader This time we can show our face Look, we didn't fire a single shot. Put down this big piece It's a relief for the people. You thought you hit me? Check this out team leader It was just the two of us who took action just now. I didn't see anyone taking action. Who sent this dart? Who sent it? Expert Expert Luckily, this guy is just like us. They are all traitors. Where is it? Where are you? Where are you? Captain, you said this master Could it be that he is also from the Eighth Route Army? How would I know? Let's go Nothing can go wrong here. This road can't go on So where are we going? no You see, it's so dangerous here, let's take the main road. You go this way again What if we meet a grain transport team again? Fight again That would be better. Come one, I'll kill one Come on, I'll kill two of them. Then you go What are you doing with it? These are all guns picked up by themselves Take two and one Take the small one Take the small Wait for me Hurry up Wait a moment The team stopped The team stopped Where is the other carriage? carriage Where did you go? You guys follow me. Bastard Eighth Route Chase quickly What are you doing? Fire broke out! Fire broke out! Hurry up, you I told you not to take that crap but you took it anyway What the hell is a gun? hurry up Captain, this journey is really dangerous. Aren't you patient? Always report number This mountain road feels dangerous. I don't think this is dangerous I just feel a little A bit nervous Don't, don't be angry team leader Who was that master just now? Are you stupid? I tell you That dart throwing expert is Look You're just making a fuss It's trouble. Come here and forget what you just said. Drilling haystack Bag So stupid? I have a big butt Let me in So stupid Don't bother listening General Caution Search carefully Search around quickly etc. What is life Come out quickly come out Quickly team leader That old man This is over. He must have seen us both running in. Stop making noise Don't shoot. Don't shoot. In broad daylight You guys play hide and seek with me Taijun, we are that Go up the mountain to burn incense and worship Buddha There is a Bodhisattva in this haystack Taijun Taijun Your don't move Taijun just had two armed work teams Killed a few soldiers We were scared when we saw it. We got scared when you chased us. Hiding here. Armed Work Team Two people two Where did they go? Captain, do it. Wait a minute They both ran over there. Just run truth I am a good citizen Those who lie will not You guys, keep an eye on them. Let me catch up with the rest Captain, do it. What are you doing? Wait a minute Listen to you, listen to me They are just a few people Where to run What are you cheating about? Where are the people? Where are the people? Remove the tube Go go go go fast Let's go Come on, come on, don't leave Secondary School Have a pot of tea I'm telling you We have entered the Damao Mountain area. Don't cause me any more trouble. I can't run anymore No, no Thank you very much Get out of the way! Get out of the way! What about you two? Go away quickly hurry up What about you two? Go away. Go away. Good|OK Don't forget what I just said Remember I didn't go there. hurry up Konijo Water Look what are you looking at? Drink your water Kid Who Isn't this Lao Lu? You are blind and deaf You can't hear me talking to you, right? You're just a dog Get out of here while I'm in a good mood Otherwise it will be too late See who I am. The kid called grandpa Now is the time to start Calm down, calm down It's not what you did. Cool down I'll go away. Lao Lu is so lucky Who did I think? It's you two. What? Seeing me take action, you guys are itching to do it, right? Who is active? The key is to find a few people I think that means I'm going to shoot you. That's why I helped you I'm talking about Wang Liang You are just a dog trying to meddle in other people's business. These few guys want to plot against me Three, five, ten, eight more. I packed it for him. OK, you are awesome Captain Lu, I want to tell you this. That's a bit exaggerated. If we hadn't helped Can you handle these three? Without you, it's the same It's not us, it's him Yes, it's him Is this our person? yes What's going on? Who are you? Asking you a question Who are you? I just said I'm in a good mood today. Spare your lives. The gun stayed Get out of here Ji Chen Selected from the 24th Regiment of the 9th Military Region Known as the best sharpshooter in North China No bullet misses its target One shot within 100 meters to extinguish the incense You came prepared. But to be honest What is your number one sharpshooter? It really lives up to its reputation Where is the sharpshooter, Captain? Don't answer him, he's stupid. Sorry to make you two laugh. Shut up I said, is the gun held? I said, is the gun held? Someone will clean up the mess. Don't move team leader Don't move Don't move Hand over your gun Hands-on Don't move Let's see how skilled they are. He should be a comrade from the armed work team. Who are you Zhou Tiezhu, the leader of the Yixian guerrillas Responsible for the security around Damaosan After all this fuss, it turns out that he is one of us. I'm sorry, brother. How did you know that I was from the armed work team? Need I say more? With the three of you In such a passive situation just now In the blink of an eye Just knocked down four of our team members Such strong fighting power In addition to the famous armed work team in Jizhong Who else? I don't know how to address you comrades. I am Lu Chenzhou, the captain of the second team of the armed work team. This is the captain of the third team, Wang Liang. Team Three Shi Dahu I said, this is amazing It turns out that it was all back then Yan'an Military Competition The top and second place It's really better to meet in person than to hear about it I admire you. Don't admire it, it's just a false reputation What else can the top two candidates do? It's because of you brothers Almost killed I said Wang Liang How did you stay second for so many years? Why are you becoming more and more cowardly? Just these few pieces of material And I can be killed How can I fight the devils? I said Comrade Zhou Don't dislike listening to me. Like you comrades Met some simple puppet soldiers It's OK to fight against sporadic devils Encountering regular troops and special forces This line of defense is basically useless. Yes, Captain Lu You are right How can we compare with your armed work team? But don't underestimate us. This first line of defense More than The defense you just fought against Captain Zhou, your precautions are indeed very strict. real There are three layers here and three layers outside Don't talk about the three of us. I guess there will be four or five more. I still can't get past this line of defense. Still killed. Old Lu has this temper. That person is straightforward and arrogant Don't take it to heart. What did you say? You said a defense like his Is it useless in our second team? Yes or no OK take it easy Our own people It's okay, my own people Our own people Put down your guns. It's okay. team leader Ji Chen, a member of the second team of the armed work team and a sharpshooter amazing Your armed forces are so powerful We bow down to the wind Let me go What are you doing now? I'm going to rescue them. You forgot what I said What did you say? Listen to the captain. Listen to the captain. Remember team leader Then we won't rescue them. Did I say I won't help? No No, then should we save him or not? I ask you Where is this here I have no idea Where is the front? have no idea This place is called Yangcheng Town Li Village is in front Do you understand? Yangcheng Town Why does it sound so familiar? team leader I remembered We sent Political Commissar Fang here. You forgot When we first sent Political Commissar Fang I saved a drunk in this town. A singing girl Do you remember? I haven't remembered it yet. Captain, I told you sometimes You're not as smart as me. Later we passed another valley. We also encountered a robber You gave him money. Right? After that, the robber helped us fight the puppet army. Do you remember it? Captain, you said that robber's shooting skills The marksman's shooting skills are similar to that of the second team The two of them Okay, don't talk to me. I said, Big Tiger, Big Tiger What's in your head? I'm guiding you this way You can't even get along with me. I want to tell you This place is called Yangcheng Town Li Village is in front You mean the group of people just now It's at this point Did he go to Licun? I won't leave. Rest there. yes Then I suggest we go to Li Village to rescue the people. Is it ok? Okay, Captain. Why not? Who to save Don't talk to me anymore. Listen more Just listen to me. Captain, you are not feeling well. Taijun Taijun Thank you for your hard work. Come and have a cigarette. Thank you for your hard work, Taijun. Smoke a cigarette One is not enough, throw it all up Can you drink it later? drunkard Work hard Third Brother Is Xiao Cui's matter arranged? Don't worry Take your money to do things for you The third brother is a very particular person. Thank you, brother San. Work hard Third brother, third brother Didn't you say Xiao Cui was okay? Look at her hurry up Golden Feather How did Xiao Xiao Cui get arrested? Shut up. Don't talk nonsense Chief Golden Feather Golden Feather Golden Feather Jin Yu let me go Golden Feather return Golden Feather Don't talk nonsense Golden Feather Taijun Taijun Taijun That manpower was not enough. Let's stop fighting Bastard yes Golden Feather Golden Feather Golden Feather Golden Feather You like him Don't let him cause trouble yes Golden Feather Bastard yes You drunkard I'm telling you If I wasn't for this little money I don't care about you. I can only make sure my brothers don't catch her. Besides Just you It's better to catch you than to deal with a drunkard like you. In a strong Work hard Captain, catch him alive I ask you I'm asking you Why did you kill someone? I didn't try hard. I'll go catch another one. All right, all right. Don't make any noise. Don't make any noise. I'll take your gag off for you. Don't shout. Do you hear me? Those fellow villagers who were captured by you Where are they imprisoned? Turn left and take the third house Strangle you to death Who tied you up? who I haven't finished asking. Turn left and take the third house Okay, drag that into the ditch and go. Also dead Go there and have a look The door is unlocked Wrong, not those women. It doesn't matter Go and take the clothes of those two soldiers. Get it down for me Guarding at the door Good good good go Don't be afraid. Don't be afraid. We are here to rescue you. Follow me. I am from the armed work team. Follow me. Armed Workers' Team To the armed workers Don't be afraid Wake everyone up The armed work team came to rescue us The armed work team came to rescue us Keep your voice down. Keep your voice down. Walk I'll take you out from the west entrance of the village. There is a forest outside the west entrance You'll be safe there, don't you? Know Walk Thank you Eighth Route Army stop stop Stop What do you do? This is what the Grand Master wants from the common people. Go to the west end of the village to help with the repairs What happened? You haven't heard That armed team There may be a surprise attack on Li Village tonight Is this still in time? Who knows? Just do whatever you want. It really makes people feel uneasy Go ahead. Walk Wait a minute Brother, we haven't exchanged the password yet. What's the password? This is urgent. You said we are our own people What do you think this thing is for? Is this just routine? Look at how rampant the armed work teams are now. Isn't this just in case? Too You said I was really from the armed workers' team Can you still stand here? Are you really a member of the armed forces? I'm not with you here. Right, right, right There was gunfire Gunshot Gunshots from the east East You put these people Send it to Taijun I'm going to support you, do you understand? I understand. Go now. Go east end hurry up hurry up Where is it? Just in front Not yet Almost there. Almost there. What's wrong with you guys? brother You know this trick too. What trick? Sprained ankle Who wants to die? Yeah yeah To die Who still wants to be this lackey? Yes, yes, yes Okay, let's get up. Also installed That's not right Why didn't I hear the gunshot? I might have misheard the gunshot. I heard it wrong I heard it wrong I heard it wrong Wrong What do you do? Report to the Patrol Password It's dark sun Taijun What are you doing here? We heard gunshots from the east end of the village Came here specially to support Where are the gunshots? Just now there was Just now There is something wrong with Taijun Muranishi's Direction Fast forward I said there was gunfire. quick I heard it wrong over there. Hurry up and chase Please, please, please Follow behind Stop, stop, stop Where to shoot? On the west mountain road West Why is the captain running so fast? You guys go first. I have to go back No, that's not your person. Just now he led the puppet army to run eastward You don't know how fast our captain runs. That's not right. No matter how fast he is, he can't surpass us. Yes or no yes There is a forest in front of my hometown Hide in the woods Hurry up! Don't hit me I team leader Was it you who fired the gun just now? Of course not I was thinking you You met the devil. No Where are the fellow villagers? My fellow villager is in the woods ahead. It's our people Our people It's Fu Jie fart If Fu Jie Why don't you just shoot and save people? Too Captain, go take a look. Walk I got a gun hurry up Walk Who Don't Shoot Don't Shoot Who Password It's dark sun Something happened up ahead. Go to support quickly Run fast, run fast Quick, there, there, there, quick, quick, quick Just in front Quick, quick, quick, quick Over there Run fast, run fast Quick, quick, quick you Look I said Stop hitting me. Stop hitting me. return Walk Come back to me now, bastard Catch them Get closer Let these women come closer No, no, no Enough I'm telling you you say No, no, no Don't. Lackey Stop hitting me. Who to hit? Isn't it agreed? Is the last one mine? People are dead, but they still fight What are we here for? Come to the rescue I'm not here to kill people. Go Go Go Report to the Chief The gunshots were five miles ahead. I didn't see who it was. Why Probably a sniper. The position moves very quickly Just a sniper? yes Who is on the other side? It should be from Lizhuang Village Imperial Army and Imperial Auxiliary Army Full speed ahead yes team leader What kind of fighting method is this? Listening Like a sniper Sniper Sharpshooter Ji Chen Another one fell It's him Who? It's that kid Who is it? The boy from Wuming Valley robbery Tell me, what are these people doing? team leader Don't worry. Let me count first. team leader There are seven devils Five puppet soldiers Okay, the devil is mine. etc. I just counted wrong There are five devils Seven puppet soldiers The puppet army belongs to me Don't worry. People walking back and forth I didn't count it clearly. I'll count it again. You take a break and don't count. Do you know how to count? Listen to me. This guy wearing this wide-brimmed hat is for you. Remember, the helmet belongs to me. I am this Walk good Keep quiet Shut up It's okay. It's okay. I'll go over there and take a look Be careful of the Eighth Route Army Get closer Get these bitches closer team leader It's you two. Captain Dahu Take off the hat Take off the hat Take off the hat Take off your hat team leader return Come back and scold me, you know who I am Come back and scold Open your eyes We are in the same group Open your dog eyes and look at me Look who your father is. team leader What's going on? team leader What's going on? It seems that this boy has dog eyes Not completely blind yet Don't Shoot Girls, please go away quickly. Don't be afraid We are the Eighth Route Army Shut up, Wugong Reporting the number again Pick up the girl and leave quickly We are the Eighth Route Army Armed Workers Team Let's go It's no use saying it so many times, right? Come on girls, don't be afraid Follow us Walk and move us We are from the Eighth Route Army Armed Workers' Team You said something, but now you don't say anything Trust us We are here to rescue you in disguise. Get up and go! He really started shooting again. Go Go Go Yes, yes, yes, go, go, go Eighth Route Army Don't be afraid. Don't be afraid. Go Go Go Dare to shoot? Stop yelling and go away Hiding behind the haystack Hiding team leader So what's the situation? Who is that person? Not the sniper. Keep your voice down, it's Japanese Japanese Fight What are you fighting for? Do you know how many people there are? have no idea Captain, this doesn't look like a devil. Look at this dress Special Forces The one who fought with us. Bloodbath of Zhouzhuang Special Forces beat It seems you know who I am. You are angry The commander didn't spot the sniper. Ignore him for now Wait a minute, the Imperial Army from the village will be here soon. Let's take care of the first two. Spread Attack yes shooting The little devils are coming! Team team leader What's wrong with you? Big Tiger No more fighting withdraw Didn't we agree not to withdraw? We just finished the meeting The captain gave us such an important task. If we both leave here Who will pass on the order? I don't care what his mission is. You listen to me I know you are loyal But think about it We now Not just for the armed work team We are for a camp You forgot We originally Why stay here? If you still take me as your company commander You go, okay? No withdrawal Walk OK You think so Do you want me to be your company commander? Then do you listen to me? listen Then I'm in danger. Do you have to help me? help Am I in danger now? You said these women Are you holding me back? drag Then help me send them away. Please don't hold me back. OK Okay, hurry up. Send them away and I'll come back. Let's go Let's go Girls, follow me. Catch up Tell the other side to stop attacking He's out of bullets. yes The lieutenant colonel ordered everyone to stop firing. Stop Shooting Old Friend Can you come out and see me? Okay, little devil. Eighth Route Army Central Hebei Military Region The commander of the first company of the first battalion of the independent regiment The current leader of the armed forces Wang Liang is that so Know a lot Tell me what you want Kill you Come on then I'm alone anyway There aren't as many of you here. I will not use the majority to bully the minority Because I am a hero. What does that mean? Let's have a one-on-one fight It should be called a discussion But regardless of winning or losing You won't leave here alive. So I hope you Be able to do your best Don't worry I will try my best very good bring it on Please take out your weapons. Come on, if you don't have any weapons please This little devil I'm not used to it Come Sir, please don't be fooled by the Eighth Route Army. I'll go first Bastard Okay, little devil. Have two tricks Come Come Playing dirty I did it on purpose Come again have a look etc. etc. Come on The Japs One for a bunch of you Worth it shooting Why are you here? Captain, throw away the grenade and come here quickly Screw you. shooting yes Sir, let's retreat. Withdrawal Withdrawal