Good morning, guys. Here in Philadelphia. Today we're going north to the a place known for blight, and lots of crime. But today's not your We're meeting up with a man who is making an effort in getting a lot of these and off the streets. So that's what we're An actual solution to a massive problem that can be seen in many Let's do this. (somber music) (siren wailing) - I lived here till I was - So it's changed quite a bit since when you were growing up here. - Yes. Yes, it has. Back in the day, you could you could walk the streets and feel safe. Obviously, today you can't do that. - Okay. - And that's why you brought just in case, right? Security, you were thinking? when you have cameras you know, you just want We're good. Let's go. - [Peter] These guys all here, - Yeah, fentanyl. Yeah. - Fentanyl, tranq. You know, in Kensington, there's always, back in the seventies there was meth, and then it came the eighties, cocaine, and then heroin came in. I remember as a young kid, It was like 1973, it was. - There was a guy standing on the corner and he wrapped his arm, took his belt off, wrapped his arm up, right? So we have a lot of We're like, &quot;What's this guy doing?&quot; Well, the five guys, the five of the guys who was watching him, they became heroin addicts. My brother was one of them, 12 years old. That's the average age, they say, where an addiction - Oh, wow. And he ultimately died. My brother ultimately - Oh, I'm sorry. Wow. I lost three siblings, as a result of complications Check on her. - You okay? You all right? Yo. Yo. Yo. We don't have any Narcan, do we? - [Kevin] No, only - [Peter] Okay. Is that - Well, they're just chilling right now. I mean, they're just, she's high. And, you know, I don't but she's definitely high. - Yo, you can't film here. - It's the street. I can film anywhere. That's the beauty about Anywhere public on the streets, - Yeah, that's fine. If I get someone in a video, I ask do they wanna be-- - But if we're walking - Yeah. Yeah, so what we're gonna do, I'll take you down the street here and we'll show you McPherson Square. They also named it Needle because it's really the where you have an open space. - [Peter] Look at this family, just trying to navigate all this. - Yeah. - [Buddy] So we got five and a half acres of green space down there, - Oh, Buddy, I'm not gonna I have like some, a little and that has not happened in a long time. - Yeah. You haven't seen - Really? This was inundated with addicts. And now what they're trying to do, they're doing this initiative. They're trying to clean up - Okay, so the police - Yes. - Making an attempt, but... - [Buddy] Yeah. Come - This is not an easy one to turn around. (car horn honks) - They have like a hundred police cadets that they've dedicated - Is that helping much? - Well, I think... My man, how you doing, - Yeah. Yeah. Well, their presence I think but we gotta wait and see. - So it's a new thing. There has to be a plan in place. - Sorry. I just wanna take a shot of this. Look at your library up here. Come on up here. Hey, officers. - So this here, this is fun. When it snowed, oh, man, I mean, where it had all the rides. - [Peter] So you'd just slide down here? - You'd slide down Snowball fights, it was great. Now you can't do that because of all the - [Peter] Yeah. - Over here they designated for kids. So you have a lot of kids that come and this kind of looks nice. I mean, it is nice when it's used, but if you look at the zip code we're in, there's over 30,000 people in our area and I would say half of 'em are kids. Where are they? That's sad. There's a tight rein on 'em You just can't go, like when I was a kid, you just can't ride your You can't walk in the streets. - [Peter] If you're a responsible parent, you're not letting your kid out here. - No, you're not. Are they open here? There you go. Hey, how's it going? - [Peter] Oh, look at that architecture. - [Buddy] A beautiful place, isn't it? - Beautiful. So what was Kensington back in the day? Was it a working class neighborhood, or? - So this place, listen, All my sisters would come in here. We would sit at the tables and, see, people don't You know, this is a beautiful - So let's say 1930s. - [Peter] Working class neighborhood. - Yes. - Yes. - Well, back in the thirties, We were the manufacturing We produced rugs, shoes, overcoats, belts. - Okay. I mean, every other block had a factory, and we had a hundred percent employment. Everybody had a job. And then, and obviously in and the seventies, where and then poverty came in, you know? - Okay, so-- - [Peter] The jobs went - The drugs came in eventually. Yes. - [Peter] So, Buddy, a guy - I don't know. We got to check him. - [Man] I tried to get him - He won't get up? - [Man] He got a big sore on his spine, his back of his spine and his neck. - Yo, pal. Yo, pal. Yo. Come on, my man. You gotta get up, pal. Okay? - [Kevin] You see that wound - Come on, pal. - [Buddy] You okay? You okay? - It like eats your flesh. It's-- - Okay. Come on, my man. (siren wailing) Look. Look. - Oh, geez. - [Peter] That's what the tranq does? - Yes, that's what the tranq does. Somebody died right there. So that's, you know. So, Buddy, from the outside, why aren't these guys getting help? - Look at, but here's the thing. There is plenty of opportunity. Like, you know, Kensington right for people to come and look and see people dying on the streets. And the truth of the matter is they don't have to die on the streets because there is help. - Okay, but the law works from my understanding, you can't just remove someone like that. They have to agree to it. If they're sober enough to walk like that, there's nothing we can do. - I agree. Yeah. - I believe so. - I believe so. I think, like personal freedom type. You can't, and so that's across the country is there is help. It looks like there isn't, but there is. - The problem, listen, the problem is that there Look at, we don't know what He could have had a great upbringing. - He could have. Maybe he broke his leg and got caught and was taking pain pills. And it happens all the time. I've seen actors, movie come and get caught up because of an injury that they-- - [Peter] Right. - Sustained while riding And they wound up in the and looking for fentanyl But that guy there, you know, You get refused 17 times. That's the average number before somebody wants when somebody wants to accept the help. - 'Cause when you're in the - You're not thinking help. - You can't see outside of them. - No. You're not thinking help. You're just thinking for the next fix. - Yeah. - You know, because, you know-- - What's up, you guys? How's it going? - You know, addiction, addiction is a cruel task master, brother. - So how many blocks are like this, Buddy? Is this a massive area, or are - Yeah, no, you're looking at two-mile radius. - Oh, wow. - [Peter] Okay. So what's with a house like this? Condemned because why? - Well, this wasn't condemned. This is like, I'll tell - [Peter] Oh, that's just protection. - [Buddy] Yeah. - [Peter] No one's there, it looks like. - Oh, no one's here. This is normally-- - There you go. You need a chicken, Peter? - [Peter] Got some chickens. And look at the architecture So when this was full-on - Oh. - [Peter] People going to church. - First of all, Kensington the main corridor of - Of Philly? - [Peter] Come on. - I'm not even exaggerating. From-- - [Peter] What are the - I would say from to from Tioga past Huntington Street. I mean, there was stores, Every one was open. - [Peter] And watch where you step, huh? - Yeah. - If you guys ever need us, - [Peter] So is that You get out in the streets, talk to people like that? Yeah. We get out there all the time. Yeah. How you doing? Good to see you. We have a chaplain squad that's perfect for what Let's check on this guy. Look at. Miss, hello? Hello? You okay? - Yeah. Thank you. - [Peter] So what's with the wire? - Well, he's making some money. He's making money. - [Peter] Yeah. What are you doing? - Stripping copper wire. - [Peter] So you sell the copper? - Yeah. How much for a piece - It's like, you get like $4.50 a pound. - [Peter] Oh, that's a lot of stripping. - Oh, I mean, yeah. I mean, - [Peter] I agree. I agree. - Hey, my man. How you holding up, pal? - Hey, I'm good. - Yeah, yeah. Where you from? - Poconos. - Yeah. - What brings you to Kensington? - Oh, I've been up here - Yeah. If you need any help, you know where Rock Ministry Yep. Yeah. We're there for you, pal. Okay? We're there for you, man. - Appreciate it. You're a young, healthy, - So far. You still have, there's hope. You just have to accept it. - Yeah. - Not right this second. - No? - But do you know what's available? - Yeah. - In 10 minutes, we can have you in a bed. 10 minutes. Just remember The Rock. - Okay. - You know where we're at? - Yep. - I remember. - Thank you very much. Have a good day. - Thank you. My man, you okay? - He's all right? - Yeah. Yeah, Buddy, I've seen a lot in the world. I've been to Karachi, Pakistan. That's a pretty hard-hitting city. I've been to the hood there. - Yeah. - But I've never felt - Yeah. Yeah. - Who? Who? Which one? - He got a new badge and stuff like that. He got upgraded. They - Does he want to go to the hospital? You don't want to go to the hospital? That's gonna get infected, Miguel. This guy's intestine's hanging out. Literally, his intestines are hanging out. - Oh, man. He doesn't want help? - He don't want help, but his - So the ambulance comes - Yeah, they'll come You call 911, in four (siren wailing) - So these EMS workers Doing this every day. - Every day. And this is nothing today. - What do you mean? - I mean, this is nothing. This is empty. It's just a normal day. No, this is empty today. Am I right, Kev? This is nothing. Yo, look, see? Now, this is America. We're in the United States Look at this. Look at this. And people just walk right by him. - Well, it's just every block. Come on. Hey, buddy. Yo. Yo. Come on, my man. Get up, okay? Please. - Get yourself up. You - Nah, I'm good, bro. (restaurant music playing faintly) - [Peter] This is like a sci-fi movie. - Yeah. This is that Mexican I mean, the food is amazing in here. And listen, just think about this. This person came here and said, &quot;Listen, I'm gonna set right in the thick of things.&quot; You gotta give them credit. - Yeah. That's why-- - That's why we wanna put a bakery, Peter. - [Peter] Should we eat - [Buddy] Yeah. Let's do it. - [Peter] So, Buddy, how You seem like a pretty optimistic guy. - That's a great question. 20 years, never because I have Jesus. - This is your world. - Yeah, I heard you. This is your world every day. - Every day. But I see hope. - I love it. Can you imagine if you didn't - You need hope. - Down here. - You smell that? You - Whew. I'm doing a mouth Guys, this is pretty So there's downtown Downtown Philly. Listen, we are literally from where the Declaration and look at what you have. - That's shameful. - Look what you have. - Look at the tracks down here. - [Buddy] Millions of needles, Peter. - Yeah. So you just would not let your here in Philly, or at least Okay. If I had a daughter, I would not. - You wouldn't do it. Yeah. - Yeah, likewise. Just going through this scene. I would want to be there. Come on, Peter. - All right. All right. - Oh, so, now listen. That building right there, that's the Youth Factory That's the oldest boxing venue in America. See, now, that used to be a factory and it was all burnt down for years, but they made 53 apartments in there. You know, low income and to help families, which is a good thing. There's another factory right there that they put all apartments which is great. - It's great, but you need For the purpose. - For the purpose, right? - You can give free housing, - Well, they gotta earn You just don't let 'em You know? - So I wanna make this that this is not all of - No. and be like, &quot;Wow, Philadelphia's And there are great parts. - Yes. Oh. - Whew. Yeah. That's what's going on here. That's why. - That's why you don't touch that. - Yeah. Don't touch anything around here. - [Buddy] See that church? When I was a little kid, I Me and a friend of mine, we took some of the altar me and a friend of mine. - [Peter] Yeah. - And we were walking out. We were only like 11 And we were pretending we were priests. Little did I know that one You know what I mean? So. - There we go. The Rock. - [Buddy] Look at the picture. - [Peter] Who's this kid here? - I don't know. Wow. Look at this. What a picture that is. Hello. - How you doing? How you holding up? - All right. All right. - You okay? - Yeah? - You tired? Yeah? - I know. - This is the lady's. She asked me to watch it, so - She just walked down there? Is it your mom? Yeah? What is your name? - Kayden. - Kayden? Where did your mom go? - She just went into the grownup store. - She went into the grownup - About two, three minutes. - So she just left her here? - Yeah. I said I would watch her. - Are you kidding me? - Is this your mom coming now? - She didn't want to - Yeah. Is this your daughter, ma'am? - It is. I don't like to - You what? - I don't like to take her to the store. - Yeah. Yeah, but did you know? - No, I know him. We know each other. - Oh, you know, okay. No, I would never do that. How old is your daughter? - She's gonna be six next week. - Do you live around here? - I do. - Well, I live on Gerard, but - You've heard of The Rock Ministries? - I have. I wanna work for you. - You wanna work for me? - Yeah. I heard that you do cleanups. - We do, but let me ask you something. We have an amazing - Really? - It'd be great for her to get over there. - Yeah. - I need something for her to do. - Yeah, please, please. - Oh, you're from Boston? - Yeah. - How long have you been here? - I went back and forth. - I first came to Philly last year. - Right. - Ended up homeless in Jersey 'cause the hotels are cheaper over there. My truck got stolen with birth certificate, social security cards. Just been trying to get that stuff back. - We can help you with all So if you go into our chaplain building-- - Okay. - Like, it's right on - I noticed you guys have - We have quite, yeah. But if you go into the - All right, guys. A little behind the It's a challenging one. The camera can't be It'd be dangerous to do so. Buddy has been amazing in He obviously knows the hood pretty well, but there is definitely And I highly suggest nobody just to walk around. I mean, most of the people and, you know, need help. That's the story. But there are people running the drugs and running the crime, and those are the situations And so we've done a good to show you the story. And I promise this is or at least positive elements, and we're about to get Buddy just wants to show and then we're gonna see and how it's helping the community. Okay. What's that story, Buddy? - Oh, that's heartbreaking. I mean, you know what I mean? Come on. - Yeah. What's that? - Was gonna see if Michelle or I mean, I don't know - Yeah. Well, let her, yeah. Hey, listen. Go around there now. I mean, we can get you something to eat. You can sit in there. - You just ate? How about her? - Yep. Well, go around there Whatever you, housing, bus We wanna get you help. - Yeah. - Okay, cool. - So are most people from out of town? - Yes. - And they just come to Kensington? - Yes. - Why? They just know it's like this? They know the drugs are good or what? - They know that it's They can come and they can dwell here. - Yeah. Careful what you So what's the law? - Do you hear it? Listen, they can come in They can do whatever they want. - Is that a Philadelphia thing? - That's a Kensington thing. No, not in Philadelphia. You can't do this in 90% But Kensington, for some - There's not a mayor - No. There's a mayor of Philadelphia. And she sees the problem, to her credit. You know what I mean? - She's changed it. It was worse. - Yes. She sees the problem, and listen. - Oh, she sees the problem. - She sees the problem and The solution is, it's when the district attorney does his job, the police commissioner's the police can do their job. Let us do our job and when we and we help people. A problem I've been now, crime reform is a big topic, right? Justice reform. But really weak DAs that demoralizes the police. They don't want to get somebody and have that person out on - Yeah. - So they sort of give up. So certain cities where I've that's a huge problem. - Okay. - Well, here's-- - Or you don't wanna get - No, here's what I see. I see, like I'm looking at Kensington, my responsibility is Kensington, Peter. What I see in Kensington, someone is not doing their job correctly. Okay? - So once the solution is provided and everyone's locking arms, Kensington can have a voice again. Right now, Kensington is voiceless. No child should be able A kid was not born to You got so many kids you know, in houses. They just can't come out They can't. They can't because they're because of the post-traumatic they've developed 'cause of what they've It's horrible, Peter. Yoo-hoo. Yo, pal. You okay? Okay. Come on. Sit up. Please sit up, okay? See his arm? You see your arm? - Yeah, flies are taking over. - And the ants. So policies that are thought of as humane are very inhumane, I would say. That's not okay. The guy's got pus-- - Coming out of his arm and - Obviously. - Yeah, but who thinks - Yeah. Yeah. It's not good. - It's not freedom. It's bondage. That's a good point. - It's bondage. - I think they are, yeah. I think it's winding down, though. Yeah. - Yeah. If someone is in agreeance please explain how that is compassion, seeing someone passed out and letting them rot on the streets. I just don't under... Sorry. You're used to this. - Yeah. Like we have policies - Yeah. Yeah. - We are in America. - Yeah. Like I haven't seen it like I've been to 85 countries. - Well-- - I've seen drug scenes, - Yeah. This is... People, look at. People just poop in the streets. You can smell, Peter. You gotta hold your breath now, right? - Yeah. Now listen, just think about your kid. Think about your kid having It's not right to them. And you know what's amazing? Like I remember HBO did a, Larry Merchant did a You know what he said to me? So he says, &quot;You're a I said, &quot;Well, I wouldn't wanna fight I said, &quot;But I'll tell you I'll fight George Foreman for the kids.&quot; Yes. Because the kids, That's what is heart-wrenching (somber music) So there's Kensington Avenue It's a pretty crazy area as we get closer. - [Peter] So a lot of - Wow. It's amazing you said that. So the New York Times did a story and they did it all over the country. And it was 63 homicides in a - In five years. And you know where it was? - Here. And you know where the blocks are? See where G Street is right here? - Yep. within a two-block radius each way. - This couple blocks-- This was all an encampment. You can't have tents anymore now. As soon as you put a tent - [Peter] So where do these people sleep? - [Buddy] On the streets, See the barriers? - [Buddy] So they were all tents and now the police have - So if this wasn't an open drug area, do you think that'd be a start, at least? Like do you need to make it illegal first so you can't do this on the streets? - Illegal? - Illegal, yeah. - So you need to make it illegal first. - Yeah, that's one of 'em. - So why have they not done-- I think that's another thing. Last year I believe it was 10 - [Peter] Who's giving out - There's a place down here I think they have a contract with the city or with the state or something like that. But I don't think they're-- - Yeah. - [Kevin] They won't let you film. - No, they won't let you film. - [Peter] They won't - Guy was like, &quot;You can't film.&quot; - Yeah. Yeah. - There are absolutely - Yeah. Yeah. And they wanted-- - What was that? That legal... - Injection. And that's what, safe injection sites, and that's where it was What happened? - This guy's shooting up into one of his sores - [Peter] So why no transparency? - I don't know. - Yeah. I don't know. I don't know what. Well, I think what they did Now, listen, let me say this. They feel as though they're doing right because their whole theory-- - I mean, everyone always - No, their whole theory Remember when the AIDS where they were giving out, everybody was using one other's needles? So they feel as though where you don't get AIDS. That's what they're saying. I don't have the information - [Peter] Yeah, but if it enables this-- - That's the problem. That's the problem. - So why wouldn't the to be getting people off drugs? - Well, that's where - And you're so diplomatic. And I understand you - No, I don't wanna be-- - I don't wanna be diplomatic. - No, but you don't wanna and I understand why. You live here and you - No, I think that everyone, they wanna try what they think works. I personally know it works. - What you're doing works. - And we're gonna see it. But just giving out needles isn't gonna fix-- - No, I don't agree with that. No, I don't agree with it. - [Peter] Did you ever have a drug issue? - No. - [Peter] Crime issue? - Yes. I was involved in, as a kid, it is crazy. I was told by the police, they told my mother as a young teenager, I was labeled a non-conformist. There you go. 10 years old. - [Peter] I've been labeled that too. - Yeah? Non-conformist. And in fact, we used to hop This is where we used to hop the trains. I was outta control. You know, my life was outta control. But at 13, I got involved in boxing and that's what changed growing up in the city. At 16-- - A hundred percent. At the age of 16, I was At 19, I was number one in the made the USA boxing team, coming from Kensington. Can you imagine that? Always in the paper. I mean, it was amazing, man. So I was always a street Bah! But it's interesting how that because eventually I was I was an organizer for a And so I got hired at a young age and at 25, I was an organizer. By the time I was 27, I was facing, you know, a lot of years - [Peter] What'd you do, if - Well, yeah, I was charged with RICO, which is a racketeer-influenced It's an acronym. And I was But so what happened because they said that I a threat to the community. A Kensington kid being called So, well, what happened, And when I went to prison, this lady by the name of Lucille, who happens to be my wife's name, but it wasn't my wife, - Okay. - She would write me letters And Peter, that started It wasn't prison who changed me. - Yeah. - But this woman, she wrote me a letter. She said to me, &quot;Buddy, Jesus holds you I said, well, what does that mean? And I would read scripture And then when I came outta but it was December 31st, 1995 at 8:30 at night. How many years is that? 28 years ago. 1995. Unbelievable, Peter. 29 years. Oh, see, here's my wife. There she is. We were just talking about you. - Bud, can you get me out? - Oh, yeah. - I can't get out. - Just the perfect timing. - Oh, you going together? - [Peter] She needs some help. You need some help with - Oh, yes. - That's my husband's. - I'm a New Jersey girl. I'm not-- - You want to interview her? - No, that is not my-- - [Peter] How long have you been married? - 27 years. It's a fun ride, - [Peter] Never a dull moment? - Never a dull moment. - All right, hun. And listen, let me show you something. Hold on. Hold on. Here, there's a ticket for you. Got a ticket. See that? - [Peter] A little present from the city. - [Buddy] That's all right. Work at it. Pull out, hun. - [Peter] How many years ago - 20 years ago. - Let's check it out. Here, this prior to COVID, a lot of people were underneath the bridges this is where everybody was So they cleaned that out. - And everybody came on the streets. So I went under the bridge and I slept under the bridge You know? - I slept under the bridge. So the next, I said, &quot;Listen, So we got the tent and we would that would sleep in there. And in the morning they and they would hear the gospel. They would hear about Christ. You know, we've been really something. But when COVID came and we We couldn't do it anymore. You know what I mean? So. What's up, Nate? What's up, brother? - Love the channel. - Oh, yeah? You know this guy? - Yeah, for sure. - Man, you do some great videos. - [Peter] Thank you, brother. - You do a really good job. - Adam. - Yeah. - Adam. - [Peter] Nate. Do you - Yeah, we just came up from Virginia. - Virginia. - [Buddy] We got people from - [Peter] Oh, how's it going so far? - We're going to check on the team now. We just got here and they got - It's my boy. It's one of our interns. He was here. - All right. So he was one of our interns Six months. We wanted to keep him for life, but he said he had to go back. But he's always family. Good people. Good people. - [Peter] Great work you're - How about a cold water, bro? - Oh, yeah. - [Peter] That sounds great. We've got the boxing ring here. - Listen, that's part of the solution. Nice punch in the nose will always help. - It's very real. Hey, brother. - What's up? - Come on, Peter. Grab some water. Listen, that's Pastor Craig. - [Buddy] He's been here with me almost to the very beginning. - Doing well, Pastor Craig. He never left. - [Craig] You're the documentary guy. - Yeah. - What's your name? - Peter Santonello. - [Craig] Good to see you, Peter. - Yeah. You, too. You know, I feel like that's - Let me tell you something. I don't go out on the I'll be very honest with you. I mean, I'm in and out all the time, but there's people constantly you know, especially our chaplains. But imagine, like you said, and seeing what you see. Bro, that's... If you don't have a filter, that filter's gotta be Christ. You can't handle that. - So I'm not a super religious person. - Impossible. - I'm not a super religious person, Buddy. I pray every night, right? - Well, me neither. - [Buddy] Craig, let me ask you. He said he's not a super religious-- - I'm not a religious person. - [Buddy] No, no, no. He said he's not a super religious person. - I meant to say religious. - No, that's okay. - Super's even better. - Are you religious? - Are you religious? - [Peter] Now you guys are tricking me. - No, we're not. We're not. - [Peter] What's going on? Romans. John. You're not religious? - No. Okay. Tell him why we're not religious. - Because we have a which surpasses any religion It's one-on-one, us with the Lord. He's reconciled us through rose from the grave. We now have a direct connection with God. No stained glass, no windows, no rituals. It's us and him. That's a relationship. - Okay. - So you need a relationship I was just out there. I'm in all sorts of weird How am I pulling it off if I don't have the direct relationship? - You know why I say that? - Yeah. I have seen so many people and really do a good work. - [Peter] Yep. - But never make it the long haul. And to me, what does that say? It means that people burn out. They get callous, they get hardened. Now, I've seen people. Kevin, it's been how many years? 17? - 15. I've been here from the beginning. Craig's been here about 18 years. And it goes on and on and on. We've been here a long time and it's nothing in and of But it's what Christ has done for, because you know what I feel like? Like when one person comes in a personal way, the Bible says that all the So when I see a kid you can come in here. We've never charged a kid and we never will. So you may ask me, how - I was gonna ask you. I don't know. - Donations? - Yes! - They just come in naturally? - And guess what? I don't So if you make a donation, Peter, I will never know you did it. My point of it is, and but that's the truth. I don't know. And I don't want to know. - But there's enough coming - Yes. Yes. We've never gone-- - Look, we have no debt. Zero debt. I'm a missionary. You know, people provide. Kevin raises three children in He quit his job, sold his house, and moved two blocks from here - [Peter] Kevin, you're - Three boys. And they are beautiful. - 13, 12, and 10. - [Peter] Wow. So you don't let them walk around where we walked around today. - As long as they're within I used to walk my kids every single day, me and Yep. That was the rule. You need to Many of us have seen as that we didn't have And then at some point in time, Jesus has come into our lives and given us a hope, given us a chance, that it's totally broken the cycle. Like I come from a family, I you know, I think he was He came from abusive background. My upbringing was chaos. I was always in and out sleeping over, staying You know, my parents were but it was just chaos in my life. I have many people that looked at my life and was like, that kid right I was driven by adrenaline, driven by like the parties Jesus met me on my knees And he met me there and gave me life. And ever since then, I've known and I've seen the change And now I have three boys. I'm raising those three here around the ministry. They all know Jesus as their And I can see the joy in their lives that I never had as a kid because that cycle was broken So I think about that little that we may look at She doesn't have a chance. And from the world's But from our perspective, knowing that Jesus can she absolutely has a chance. - [Buddy] Peter, what do you see there? - [Peter] Okay, I see someone - Okay. But I see someone out that's also just as captive, - [Buddy] Wow. I like that. - [Peter] That's what I'm seeing. - [Buddy] Okay. Anything else? - [Peter] The Holy Bible over here. He gave up on that, so And what is that? A gun? - [Buddy] What else do - [Peter] Oh, the syringe. There you go. - Yeah. - [Buddy] Okay. So there's Can I hold this for one second? - Yeah, yeah. - Okay. What am I doing? - Oh, that's your-- (Buddy laughs) - It's you. - And listen. Anybody Anybody, right? And it can happen quickly, right? - Yeah, but let me just say this to you. I'm gonna be a cameraman. Now watch. Boom. That'll never That book right there Look at that mug shot. (laughs) - Thanks, buddy. - Hello. - Good to see you. - [Peter] Okay, what's going on in here? - So we have a meeting - Meeting with the council. - [Peter] This is your - [Buddy] Yeah. - While the need for low-barrier (indistinct) offers. - Okay, Buddy, so-- - That's good to see the - Yes. Yeah, and-- - And it's not for show? You think they're - No, here's what's taking place. So the councilperson from this area wanted to hold some hearings and-- - Okay. - So she wants to hear that are interested in the solution. We wanna come together. How many beds are available in the city? What's being done for detox? All these major questions that have to be answered, you know? - What's the plan as of right now? You said they're working on one, but is there a plan in the neighborhood? - Yeah, I think the plan, well, sure. The plan is, I know from what I hear that in the budget that was passed, I think it was $6 billion and for City of Philadelphia, the mayor wants to build a facility that's not far from here if I'm not mistaken, I could And what would happen is this has always been something You have to have a location. So when a person is taken from the street, they go into this place. So what you do, you have behavior health, you have social services, you have clergy, you have medical staff, to present an amazing plan for that person to be able - They have to be clean in - Well, yeah. So what'll happen is you - Okay. - And you're gonna be placed there because you can't be on the You can't defecate. - Yeah. - Yeah. You know, so there are laws in place that have to be carried out, that should be carried - Absolutely. - And then when that happens, you would have a facility You know what I mean? - Okay. So I lived in San Francisco we called it the homeless Ton of money went towards the mission. - Yeah. - But the amount of grift going on and money siphoned here and there and the problem has - Yeah. Okay. - I haven't been there in a year, but at the time it wasn't It was just sort of a And so hopefully you - Well, I think, listen. - Because results are and not seeing what we saw. - Oh, yeah. I mean, that's ultimately, listen, I can't tell you the but I know this. With the plan in action, and then you got a solution. But if you keep talking about the problem, this, that, and another you're just talking about it. Implement things. But you gotta have a physical - [Peter] Yeah. - 'Cause if you don't then how's it gonna work? - And I feel, I don't know but I think forcing rehab is needed in some of these situations, - Listen. like get off the drugs, - Listen. You said it. You saw how many people. There's dozens and dozens of - [Peter] Yeah. - Laying all over Kensington. - Would you rather? - Yeah. - That's someone's father, someone's daughter, someone's son. It's a family member, bro. I mean, you gotta have, there's gotta be some stringent rules that have to be put in place and then they have to respect it. You know? They have to respect it. - Hey, Joe. How are you, bro? - How you doing? You all right? - [Peter] How long you been here, David? - I got here July 28th, 2021. - [Peter] You're from Kensington? - From South Philly. I was in prison for three and what got me into I was addicted to Percocets and I wasn't the type of and wait for something to happen. - Okay. - I would try to go make it So instead of sitting there I went out and found my own solution. And that was burglarizing houses. And when I came to The Rock, you know, my dad picked me up from prison and two weeks later, that's There's an event going And at the event, you know, There's not a needle on the ground, there's not a gunshot in sight. And a kid can just come And, you know, we got the And it was just a beautiful And in the middle of it, He said, &quot;If there's anyone here that wants to surrender their life and give their life to And it was just like a and I could just feel the And my dad had his on his shoulders, and he just looked at me And I just knew. And I shot to the ring and I and I just gave my life to the Lord. And then I didn't notice it at the time, but when I looked back, I was the first one that entered the ring. But the effect of that, I there was like 15 to 20 young kids that came into the ring after that. So as time went on, I started to pick up what Like I'm gonna use your old life, David, that you were stark in darkness for. And I'm gonna use that wasted life and I'm gonna use it for good 'cause these kids in what it looks like to a robbing houses, Mom and Dad. Mom was a smoker, Dad was a doper. Now they both live for Jesus. I'm going to use your life, David, to show these kids what it's like to not be a product of your environment, but to be a product of the gospel. And that's what he did in my life. And that's what he's continuing to do. Me and my wife got married. We've been together nine years and-- - Congrats. - Thank you so much. We got married October 7th of last year. But it didn't just happen like that. Like when I came home, she put she bailed me out, you know, one time. She always made sure when that I had somewhere to stay. You know, she always made sure that she was with me, you know? So God showed me how much he loved me by working through her before we knew him. Now you're allowing accountability And when you allow accountability by that principle alone means that what you're doing in your life, now you gotta look at your own heart and you gotta say what's What do I gotta stop? What do I gotta do? What do I gotta give up and I had to do that myself. - A hundred percent. And I'm not downplaying or shedding light on anyone's life that was hard. I lived in crack houses. We walked around and we I'm not saying it's easy, but at some point when a man and a woman has to make that choice. - So, growing up, a lot in a similar situation, or? - In South Philly, yeah. There There was the oxy days, there was, you know, the Percocet days, and everyone wanted to escape. You could come from a lot of homes that swept a lot of things under the rug and everything stayed home, And yeah, that's kind And what I have seen in is when you kind of do that stuff there, nothing really gets dealt with. And then you grow up and man, we kind of didn't deal with anything. We kind of just swept it under the rug and just kept it pushing. And I don't want that for my child. My wife's eight months pregnant. And I see that I don't want to just sweep things under the rug. - So do you think most people out here had broken childhoods? - I would a hundred Definitely. - Yeah. And I believe that, you we turn to something. I used to turn to Percs I had weed, smoking weed every day. Me and my girlfriend at the I was getting high every day. She couldn't stand what I was doing. She couldn't stand that I was on Percs. I was probably taking 15 - Yeah. And this is back when Percs Now I believe out here they're And then that's what makes because it's so cheaper. - How cheap is it here in Philly? - What is it, like $3 a bag, Kev? Probably get a bag of Fentanyl for $3. When you don't deal with something... So I'm about to have a baby. If I don't discipline him at all, at all, I don't tell him no yes, no no, and I don't do nothing to show you can look at his life and you could see a little Kensington. When you don't know how something else is gonna - [Peter] Are you aligned - I am City Council. - You are City-- - Okay, so I'd love your perspective. - What's up? - [Peter] We're doing a video - Okay. - [Peter] And on Greater Kensington. As far as the city goes, you're obviously taking 'cause you're here. What are your thoughts? - Well, listen, I live I live a couple blocks away. I'm at G and Allegheny That's why I ran because-- - To be honest with you, I'm in recovery and we were thinking more about the actual struggling addicts out here than we were to residents and the children who have to live here and watch these people I got a little bit of the because I've been there. You know what I mean? I I know recovery's here and that's why places like in us helping change this You know, it's all wrapped into one. It's about-- - Giving these people a like I got. You know, for me, it's about us bundling - [Peter] Okay. - And throwing as many services until we figure out what services are the ones that we really - Right. - So would one policy That being it can't be an open-air drug, I don't know the title you call it. - Open-air drug market. - Okay. - It can't be an open-air drug market. - No, and we're gonna - Oh, that's gonna turn around? - The honest thing is we did it before. It's just, you know, the mayor changes and a new mayor comes in and they have different things. So I was in the administration We cleaned up this area. We shut down 390 open-air drug markets in the city of Philadelphia. Cleaned out 40,000 abandoned autos where they were hiding the drugs and stuff like that on these blocks. - So what was the point whoever did that? - Well, it's people come and they try to add to it or take stuff away that they And that's where it lies in. So right now, what we're trying to do is take our best practices, the stuff that we know that works. - Okay. - Okay. - Get rid of the stuff and try to figure out what we have to do in order to make it all adhesive. So for us, what we're doing is we're leaning towards as a - Okay. - We want to have these have the best chance at And the way we do that is with all services wrapped into one. You cannot send somebody to rehab and then send 'em back - Yeah. Yeah. That's it. Come on, man. - Go get it. No. - Right. Yeah. No, you gotta have both. They gotta have a place - And then you-- We're gonna go-- - You can't just have - Right. Exactly. It's gotta be all in one. It's gotta be, you know, listen, there's a lot of great - Yeah. - An AA, an NA house right - Yeah. You know what I mean? And we need more of that, you know? - Yeah. The bottom line is that people get sober from other alcoholics and More than they would. People have the wrong idea When they go into rehab, they learn about what sent the dopamine responses, all them technical and stuff like that, but where they really My colleagues, none of them You know what I mean? So they didn't know what When I explained to 'em that a safe injection site is like we don't do. You do not enable another That's the number one thing. We do not let and enable That's it. It's easy. Not that we don't think that's a way of calming down the other We just decided that we're not We're not gonna spend that's gonna help them to - [Peter] Yeah. - We're gonna spend our money There's plenty of money for them things, but us as a city, we're not paying for it. - Yeah. Sounds like a little common sense is coming back into the mix. - Yeah? - Yeah. Cool. Thank God it didn't take for San Francisco to Washington, Washington state, and now the same people that did that just reversed it on themselves. You know, they actually came in and said, &quot;Wait a minute, we were up with this one. It wasn't right.&quot; And they reversed it and changed it back. - Yeah. Okay. - So when do you think Kensington so there's no open-air drug usage? - Well, we have, and it's starting now. We started with the information part, just letting the addicts know and the dealers down - Yeah. After a month comes, It doesn't matter. So all these guys using what's gonna-- They're gonna start with the, once the triage center and all is in, they'll be taken in front let's say like a community court judge. And they will be given the option. You can either go through the or you can go to rehab right now, sign up, no criminal record whatsoever. Didn't even happen when you get out. When you get out, there's no Because the bottom line to be able to get jobs, to become part of society. If you have a felony record, that's-- - If you have a felony record, it's hard. - Listen, I had it. I was there. You know what I mean? - It was only the fact and they gave me a lawyer and from aggravated to simple that I'm actually even You know what I'm saying? - That's an awesome story. - Way to turn it around. We need to be able to give people a chance to turn it around. - What do you think - Well, faith-based is always part of it. I mean, a higher power. Like we have a saying, you know, a higher power helped me, but I don't give a what It could be your shoelace You know what I mean? As long as you believe in doesn't necessarily have to be God. Could be your family, could be something that something that you could put faith in to look at and say, &quot;This is why.&quot; - Yeah. - What's up? - Train up a child in When they grow old, they Proverbs 22:6. Kid comes in like this, thinks he can fight, - Right. A guy just thinks he can handle everybody. And then he realizes, so get your hands up like this, right? - A lot of times what happens is... - Here. You wanna hold this, Buddy? - Yeah. - This is the guy I was telling you about. - How you doing? - Yeah, thank you. Yeah. - He was the guy, 17 and now he's 39, his son is 18, he's the number one in the world, his son. And he beat everybody in-- - He won gold in Germany for - And then Romania, he won. - Yeah, he won gold in Romania. - So now he's pro. This Saturday will be his - [Peter] What's his name? - Johnny &quot;Different Breed&quot; Rivera. - [Peter] What weight class? - 140. &quot;Different Breed&quot; because the Bible says be a people of rare So he's different breed. - So a kid will come in and the toughest kid around. You know what I mean? And next thing you know, he realizes when we tell put your hands on the what's he doing? He's listening to instructions where normally he's not he's not listening to the school teacher, he is not listening to the police. So when you're coming in here, you're getting all kinda lessons and you're trained to listen. Listen. - [Instructor] Hit it. Hit, hit, hit, hit, hit it. - [Buddy] Andrew, this is Peter. - How you doing, Andrew? - [Peter] Nice to meet you. - He was 10 years old when he came here. He's a second-year apprentice with Local 98 electricians' union. When he finishes his, was it five years? - Yeah, five-year program. - He'll have a college Now, this is a Kensington kid. - Wow. - Life is a lot better now, honestly, now that I had good mentors in my life to set me up properly with finances. - [Peter] Okay. - Also like my career-wise and stuff. And that's what The Rock stand for if you see the mission statement. - Yeah. - For pretty much the kids who of the stuff that's inside So The Rock is like broadening horizon of the people's minds. Anytime they come in here, than just what we see out on the streets. - Yeah. So how does it make you feel walking down these streets in Kensington? Have you gotten used to it? Or every time you get &quot;Wow, what's going on? This is so...&quot; - You do become numb to it, to an extent. - Yeah. - But at the same time, what your body is still on high alert. So you may become used but you're still under pressure. (boy shouting) - Get it, We. Get it, We. Get it, We. He came from Puerto Rico. He didn't speak one word of And he lives in our house where he runs the house. He desires to be a plumber. So he's gonna be going It's amazing what the Lord I mean, here's a kid who He was 17 years old when - [Peter] How'd you do that? - Working the street. Yeah. Yeah. - [Peter] How are things now? - I would've never trade what This is what I have been just the peace of mind and just the joy and just the confidence that You know? - [Peter] It's built your confidence? - Oh, yeah. Just in who I am. I mean, I come from a it determine who you are. You know, just like the amount of money, however you dress and what you So all my life, you know, and just trying to have a nice car and just trying to like dress nice because I was not confident in who I was, but then when I came to Christ, So it's different now. You know? It's like-- - I'm 24 now. I just turned 24. Yeah. I always decided to be a I mean, I remember when they cut the water off at my house. So I used to go over to my friend's house to get a bucket of water so So I was like, man, I When I grow up, I'm gonna be a plumber so if they ever cut the water, I know how to put it back on.&quot; So since, you know, and ever since then, I have like this desire to be a plumber and I worked for a year and I just loved it. I just love everything about it and just working with my hands. So, yeah. - Now, look, when you take a look here, these kids could be standing - [Peter] Yeah. - Moving rock, selling drugs. And now they're here at a safe refuge for these kids. And we have two of our coaches here, Filipo, he came here And same way with James. Now they're both children, That building right next door here, we will have every sport - Can anyone in Kensington come in here? - Anybody from the city of Philadelphia-- - Oh, sweet. Yeah, you can go. And that's why I love the 'cause they come from the And they gotta walk through - [Peter] Many girls - Oh, yeah. Girls too. Yep. We have special nights for the girls. Monday, it's all girls. - Monday's all girls. - [Peter] Okay. - Go. One, two, three. All right, bring it back, Yeah. Ready, set, go! Come on, bring it back. Come on. 10. - [Peter] Consignment shop. - There's not a homeless person that can say that they never have clothes. Here's how it works. When you want to get right, we'll give you a shower. No problem. We'll put clothes on their back and then we'll get 'em to a hospital. We'll get 'em to a detox. We'll get 'em to a treatment place. - Has there ever been a time when you can't handle all the inflow? - No. - You've always been able to. - So anyone out here can come in here. - Anyone who can, listen. If they don't have anything, we don't charge anybody anything. But if you have some, 'cause it helps. And what we do with any funding, And what we use, we use plane fares, bus fares. Like every cent that comes from this tent, that's a benevolence fund. (siren wailing) Father God. - I want to be saved. - Forgive me of all of my sins. - Forgive me of all of my sins. - Past. - Present. - Future. - Tonight. - On Kensington Avenue. - I give you my life. - Change my heart. - Give me purpose. - And give me a future. - All the days of my life. - In Jesus' name I pray. - And everybody says Way to go. Way to go. (group applauds) (laughs) All right. Amen. Congrats. Bub, listen to me. You will never go wrong with that. Okay? Walk with Jesus all the days of your life. He has a purpose and a Train up a child the way they should go. When they grow old, they That's the solution, - It's crazy. The kids gotta now walk - Let me ask you something. I don't know whether you're but Pete, is this fair - [Peter] No. - [Buddy] And have to walk through this. - Yeah. So the kids come right out of - And right through this. - [Peter] And they're going Oh, what a little oasis here. - My man. - Good to see you. - This is my son, Rain. - What's your name? - Rain? Oh, it's good to meet you. Love your dad. - I wouldn't wanna fight (laughs) - That's Casey. He runs Impact Services, - Oh, nice to meet you. This is my son, Rain. - Nice to meet you. - They do an amazing work. Like remember I showed you a They turned it into apartments. Oh, amazing. - Amazing work they do. - Oh, that looks beautiful. - Now we eat tacos. - Take care. All right. - [Buddy] Look at that. Oh, look at that. Oh, man. That's awesome. - Whew, yeah. - Look at that. - I am so surprised that this - Isn't it amazing? - Yeah. How is it? Yeah? Get the flavor down, bro. - Proper palates. - You know that little crisp you know, they can mess those up. Perfect softness. How long's this place been here? - A couple years now. - Oh, thank you. Thank you. - So maybe two years. So there's little glimmers of hope. I mean, other than you - Well, listen, those two one's gonna be a bakery/coffee shop, right walking distance from here one day. - [Peter] So how many kids Or how many kids have in the history of The Rock? - In 2015, we stopped counting. It was approximately Kids would come through there. - I love that you're bringing like the physical outlet. - And just toughen. I mean, is it fair to say or are they already toughened - Well, we're not making 'em soft. We're just making 'em wiser. Wiser. - And sturdy. - How many of those kids, what percentage don't have - I would say probably Many of the fathers are absent. And that's the basic, that's how it started. So The Rock was birthed from I said, &quot;Who in here has A couple hands went up. There was 28 kids. I says, &quot;How many kids from your grandma?&quot; More hands went up. &quot;How many kids heard about Not one hand went up, It infuriated me. So I said to myself, how can I be more as opposed to the prison block? - [Peter] What is it that makes Is it almost a necessity? Like if they don't do it, they're going to get beat up? Culturally you feel like What is it? - Just the influence and the culture too. And just thinking that some myself, when I was growing up, I was just always looking at and the person who was dressing the best, because that's the person that I thought had it all together. So people growing up, that's They want to be in the circle. - [Peter] So it's a lot of what's on TikTok and Instagram, right? - Yeah. - Oh, definitely a lot. - [Peter] All the material - For sure. Okay. Would you agree with that? - Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. You see it in our kids big time. You see it in our kids big time. They're drawn to that fast life. They're drawn to those like, those backdrops and all that stuff. Like they're drawn to it. - And to be fair, it's - Yeah. - Don't you wanna be part of like, I used to jump the pool at I used to jump the fence It was fun, right? I mean-- - We tell the kids like, we tell the kids all the - Oh, it is fun. Like you have fun, but that go with so much of it. Like you do something Like there's consequences. Like at some point in time, You're gonna get caught up 'cause like it may start off as, you know, just jumping in the pool and then like for Alex, it's I wanted those shoes or I wanted that or dress a certain way. And then it's like, but so then I need more money to you just go deeper and deeper of just like to get those other things. - So you can't get the so you gotta resort to - You don't have to. You don't have to. You don't have to do that. But that's sometimes the culture - [Peter] Of course you don't Like you're not gonna get the money working at Subway sandwiches. So that's why you resort to drugs and things that pay way more. - Yes. Well, see, one of the this is why we're in the heart of it. When you look at The Rock, we're Many of these kids, they're But you saw those kids in - Yeah. - [Peter] A lot of 'em - Every one of 'em, not a lot of 'em. - [Peter] They weren't so restless. - No, they were like, I was like, they were concentrating. They were focused on. - So they're craving for structure, right? - They're craving for the truth. - The truth to be part - Because here's what the Bible says. When you know the truth, it sets you free. And when you're free, you're free indeed. They're craving for truth because they don't get it on the block. Look what we come out to. - What a contrast. You know what? My one goal, well, there are but one is in 10 years, &quot;Remember when it was like That's the goal. - Something's gonna happen and it's never happened in We have Rock the Block and usually goes from We have from Lehigh all the Rock the Block. Nobody will be here but all The Rock is sanctioned. - Okay, well-- - Yeah. - Yeah. - That was awesome. - And I know you're not but I want people to know, guys, if you want to give to The or go to The Rock, you're on the streets and you need some hope in hang out with these great guys, then that link is down Anything else, Buddy, you want to say? - Never give up on Jesus. He never fails. - All right, thank you, Buddy. - That was awesome. Thanks, guys, for coming on that journey. Until the next one. (soft music)