- Hydrogen, ladies and gentlemen, - Clean hydrogen is gonna - What's going on of hydrogen aviation engines and why does it seem like a rift is opening up between Well, to explain that, into a really fascinating where not everything is what it seems. Stay tuned. (calm music) The decarbonisation remains a really hotly debated topic. The industry aims to develop a path towards a net zero carbon and while that might sound like it's a long way Obviously, for that to be possible, that will both mature but that's only one part of the problem. You see, an airliner that will very likely because that's just how long the life cycle of a normal aircraft is. So this means that new aircraft We also need to that will allow us our current aircraft as well And the only realistic involves the use of something known as sustainable aviation fuels or SAF. As I have explained in previous videos, the composition of these fuels to the aviation fuels that That's really good news, that current jet engines are already compatible with these fuels, but there is a catch here. Whilst the engines that doesn't mean that 100% of SAF in our current engines. You see, the problem isn't Instead it's the whole fuel system. Now, I have made a video but the gist of it is that contains much fewer or soot, in other words, Now in many ways, that because it means that SAF fuels could generate 50% Now contrails are obviously just water, but soot acts as kind of a catalyst that enables water to condensate onto the droplets that And since contrails in the atmosphere, reducing them potentially helps fighting climate change. But these aromatic a very important role You see, it turns out that like the rubber seals actually need these aromatics and maintain their And that means that would probably work okay on an aircraft if we did it from time to time, in practice, regulators today will only allow commercial flights to run on fuel with The rest has to But obviously this is not Designing new kinds and both Boeing and Airbus to both developing for their existing aircraft with 100% SAF by the year 2030. Now, at this point, I know at the title of well, if sustainable aviation and making them fully compatible with the aircraft that we fly today is just a matter then why would we Well, the answer to that has to do and how we can scale Because frankly sourcing SAF is so difficult that in practice, we are nowhere near that I mentioned before. Here, it is probably worth clarifying what makes sustainable in other words, how these fuels differ from other kinds of biofuels. Well, basically the simple rule should not compete This means that SAF manufacturers should not use prime agricultural land or food crops as SAF feedstock unless SAF is made in food production. SAF production also shouldn't when it comes to and there are more restrictions to help with land This is one reason is so challenging, especially that the aviation industry needs. Finding enough source material to make this stuff is just very hard. For example, it is possible to make SAF from used but even if we to live only of deep fried everything, we still wouldn't be able And if we tried, we would to gather all of that used cooking oil, transport it somewhere where and do so profitably. Now fuel companies are coming up with more and more for example by algae and an increasing variety but they always run Coming up with a way to scale up these processes involves creating completely new supply chains and doing this persistently And then we come to the cost Now this currently varies wildly from place to place and depending on the method used to make the SAF, but as a rough guide, to two and a half than conventional jet fuel. Now that cost should if we manage to scale up but that's a really big if. And I would like to give you some figures just to put this into context here. In 2022, the aviation industry in the United States consumed That's 15.8 million gallons. Now that sounds a lot until of conventional jet fuel during that same period, which was 44.9 billion liters This means that the SAF usage was only around 0.1% of the Now I don't know whether to the maximum production but I'm sure you can Another way of thinking would suddenly increase SAF we would still only be at around 10% of the fuel that we need. With that, you can probably see that that 50% limit in SAF usage in current aircraft isn't Now there is more to make it and it still has but the many problems with it is a big reason why there who believe that hydrogen at least for a big part But before I get into that, I just want to make a small more specifically the security Did you know that things web search habits about your friends and family right now being sold Well, it is and just ask Dominic, my lead editor over on Mentour Pilot. A few months ago, he found out was being sold by several to everything from banks, insurance companies And this was unless he told every one of those brokers that he Now that's obviously a real pain to do. So Dominic reached out to today's sponsor DeleteMe DeleteMe is a hands-free service who will work tirelessly to delete So after signing up, Dom saw where his data was being scrubbed from dozens of websites within a week. He is now regularly outlining exactly from where his data has been removed and what because DeleteMe will for as long as you stay with them. If this sounds good then please use my link here below which is joindeleteme.com/mentournow. That'll give you an on their consumer plans. Thank you, DeleteMe. Oh yes. Back in September the launch of what it At the time, this was basically a series of hydrogen-powered concepts and the reason they was because Airbus didn't really know which kind of hydrogen Broadly, speaking there are two ways of powering an aircraft with hydrogen. The first option to the technology that we already use is to burn hydrogen that we have today. The other option is to generate electricity which will then be that will spin propellers or fans and both of these methods have both advantages and disadvantages. Hydrogen combustion in jet of the two options but fuel cells despite being heavier as an installation. Now obviously the weight penalty but the additional more than makes up for it. Also modifying existing jet engines so that they work with hydrogen brings some less obvious challenges. You see hydrogen burns compared to regular jet fuel or SAF. So in practice, this means would probably generate less power than the conventional version because of temperature-related limitations. That could be a problem particularly during takeoff and climb but there might actually be You see there is a which is working on a type that would enable current jet engines to run both on regular The idea there would be to use jet fuel during takeoff and climb when the aircraft needs as well as during landing and the aircraft would then where lower power kind of like how Derwent believes that to adapt an existing with cylindrical tanks to hold the liquid hydrogen. Such an aircraft would of its existing systems so in theory, at least, And by the way, we need because it isn't really inside of the wings of with conventional jet fuel. Hydrogen needs to be kept at extremely low that the tanks needs and hydrogen also has being that it is the smallest This also means that so for a given weight of fuel, hydrogen has about three times But it also needs a lot of volume and obviously, for the tanks adds weight as well. So the size of these cylindrical tanks under the wings would between weight, volume The available hydrogen on board would only be enough but that's not necessarily a problem. Typical flights of the A320neo are often just a fraction of the plane's maximum between 800 and 1000 Derwent claims that this would burn 50% less CO2 And, of course, it for longer flights using Now, I think that this and perhaps even a for these new fuels and if it than other hydrogen projects to kickstart hydrogen supply at airports, which is another But a modified Airbus A320neo is not really what Airbus Instead that project an all new aircraft and from the start, Airbus aimed to bring that into service by around 2035. At least that's what And as far as I can see on their website, 2035 still remains the target. But is that really realistic? Well that's where things because at some point, Airbus needs to commit either hydrogen Back in March this year, Airbus stated that it on which method to go for which would give them to develop that new jet and frankly, that's cutting it I have covered the pace in recent videos and despite all of our technological development time is actually So I'm not sure for an aircraft that uses is even possible but maybe I'm wrong. Let me know in the comments and while you're down there, Anyway to commit to a hydrogen combustion or fuel cells and to finalize the of their first hydrogen aircraft all the help and input from the engine And this is where Airbus with the difference in attitude towards hydrogen between the attitudes of engine You see it turns out for a little bit more development input on hydrogen from American in particular from General But their limited input doesn't mean that these companies aren't working on hydrogen at all; far from it. General Electric is part and through that, they are working with Airbus on hydrogen research. Actually, the first jet engine that Airbus will run on hydrogen in flight will be a GE Passport engine. For that test, Airbus on a special pylon fitted to the side of the fuselage of an Airbus A380 which looks really odd Pratt &amp; Whitney is on hydrogen propulsion, specifically to make hydrogen by recovering and reusing water that is produced as the engine runs. This has to do the heat in these engines. Remember hydrogen is and then heated before so there is a lot of in managing this process as well. Pratt &amp; Whitney calls this project the Hydrogen Steam Injected, or HySIITE. And if you want as always, I'll suggest that over at Leeham News. But if Pratt &amp; Whitney then why is Airbus kicking up a fuss? Well, the reality is that the two American companies are doing only a fraction of the work that European companies like Safran, Rolls-Royce, MTU and And this doesn't seem As I'm sure many of you have guessed, the difference in hydrogen research between Europe and the to do with differences in investment and funding from governments Now I know that that can for some but to be clear, one way or another, public investments on new fuels for the industry The reason I made talking about sustainable is because many in the as a far more realistic way But the reality is that this Not only do we need and hydrogen since our is beginning to look very shaky. We also have to think about Hydrogen made using renewable energy which is often called green hydrogen is not very cheap to produce today. But it is cheaper and will be a lot easier to scale up. After all, hydrogen is the most abundant element in our universe. So if in the long term is going to be considerably to produce in volume, to spend more funding on Well, there are three wants American engine-makers Firstly, beyond the to develop the actual aircraft, in adoption of hydrogen as a You see, aircraft can't use hydrogen unless the fuel is and Airbus has been with a lot of airports around Canada and elsewhere But airports obviously without government support. Secondly, Airbus wants General Electric and Pratt &amp; Whitney to up their game because they basically want beyond Rolls-Royce, Rolls-Royce has done a lot including engine testing on the ground, but it is always a good idea especially if one or more companies For example Rolls-Royce their electrical propulsion on their core activities some hard financial times And thirdly, Airbus also believed that there is geopolitical China has its own with 2060 as the goal instead of 2050. And hydrogen will inevitably Now there's obviously a For example, some analysts argue that the cost of would be easier for in the long run than what but it will take time. Analysts like Price Waterhouse to get significantly cheaper before the year 2040, for example. Now one of the more promising is by using carbon capture which is something But one of the steps is generating hydrogen which tells you a little bit about how the cost of this method compares with the cost of Finally, I should that it's not just commercial aviation that will ultimately embrace hydrogen. Other vehicles could and generating green hydrogen could become a widespread way to take advantage of excess capacity in solar power But even though hydrogen to use in aviation the broader challenge, the generation, transportation and storage of hydrogen could be even harder still. Ultimately, that I think is why Airbus is getting quite anxious right now. They want to see the creation of the hydrogen supply before they even launch which is something So what do you think? How soon are we really on hydrogen or do you Let me know in the or join my Discord Server And do you, by the way, and one of my best friends, Ben, have created a virtual Boeing Well, we have and in it, over the course of more than 10 hours, we explain in detail exactly and it is perfect for anyone or someone who's If you wanna check it out, then use this QR code up here Now, check out these videos next and have an absolutely fantastic day. Bye bye!