Quantum mechanics has a lot of weird stuff that no one understands. I'm talking about this elusive little behavior of the electron the nature of the quantum world. There's a classic demonstration done in professor sits on a swivel stool and holds over and suddenly begin to rotate on the of angular momentum. The angular momentum so the angular momentum of the professor has the total angular momentum the same. Believe it or not, this is basically the same a thread and switch on a vertical magnetic with a constant speed. At first glance this momentum because there was nothing spinning there sort of was. The external magnetic field in the iron's outer shells to align their bicycle wheels, and their shifted angular the cylinder. That explanation makes sense if we imagine spinning anything. Which might sound fine we call spin. But there's a huge problem: bicycle wheels. And yet they do seem to possess somehow exists without classical rotation. fundamental than simple rotation - it's or the various charges. But it doesn't just out that quantum spin is a manifestation of a that is responsible for the structure of all couple of episodes - but today we're going to Today we're going to talk about what understanding what this weird property of nature. The experiment with the iron cylinder is called by, well, Einstein and de-Haas in 1915. It properties of electrons. That came from looking when electrons jump between energy levels great Hendrik Lorenz in the Netherlands, found atoms are put in an external magnetic field. himself with the ideas of classical physics. moving in circles around the atom, that motion field like a tiny bar magnet. The different relative to the external field turns Sounds reasonable. But then came the anomalous field causes energy levels to split even further mystery. One explanation that sort of works is moment - by itself it acts like a tiny bar the orbital magnetic moment and the electron's But for that to make sense, we really need charge - but that has huge problems. magnetic moment they'd need to be spinning pointed out by the Austrian physicist Wolfgang have a maximum possible size given by the best would have to be moving faster than light that's assuming that electrons even have - they have zero size, which would make the nonsensical. Pauli rejected a classical property like rotation to the electron, instead insisting on calling OK, so electrons aren't spinning, but somehow is how we think about quantum spin now. It's the conservation of angular momentum like gives electrons a magnetic field. An electron's and has all the weirdness you'd expect from into that weirdness, let me give you one more that result from spin. This is the Stern-Gerlach experiment - proposed Gerlach a year later. In it silver atoms are - in this example stronger towards the north A lone electron in the outer shell of the That means the external magnetic field induces a that these little magnetic moments are pointing aligned with the field will be deflected by classical dipole fields - like actual tiny partially aligned with the external field silver atoms with randomly aligned magnetic You might expect a blur of points where the deflected up or down by the maximum, but most the random orientations. But that's not what's in only two spots corresponding Let's keep going. What if we remove the Now we know that the electrons have to be through a second set of Stern-Gerlach magnets, dipoles that are at 90 degrees to the field if we put our detector screen we see that oriented horizontally. So not only do electrons have this magnetic of the underlying magnetic The direction of this &quot;spin&quot; property is quantized - it can only take on specific direction in which you choose to measure it. manifesting as something like the direction of the magnetic dipole. But actually this two-valuedness is far deeper how spin is described in quantum mechanics. It here. By the mid 1920s physicists were very given - the Schrodinger equation. This equation distributions of probability - as wavefunctions.It some aspects of the subatomic world. But the did not include spin. Pauli managed to fix components - motivated by this The wavefunction became a very strange mathematical object called a spinor, And just one year after Pauli's discovery, of the Schrodinger equation - in this case theory of relativity - something we've discussed spin, but the only way the equation could Now spinors are exceptionally weird and cool, let me say a couple of things to give you very strange rotation properties. For familiar back to its starting point. That's also in some space. But for a spinor you need to back to its starting state. Here's an example of spinor-like behavior. arm gets a twist. A second rotation untwists We can also visualize this with a cube attached the cube by 360 degrees, the cube itself is have a twist compared to how they started. backwards but in the same direction - we get Another thing to notice is that the cube can of ribbons attached, and it never gets tangled. So think of electrons as being connected to strands. One rotation causes a twist, two more technical - the spinor wavefunction has - and a 360 rotation pulls it out of To get some insight into what spin really is, think not about angular momentum, A particle's momentum is fundamentally By Noter's theorem, the invariance coordinate location gives us the law of the in quantum mechanics position and Meaning you can represent a particle wavefunction And by Heisenberg's uncertainty principle increasing your knowledge of one, means If position is the companion variable of momentum, Well it's angular position. In other So one way to think about the is not from classical rotation, but rather from the fact that they which leads to a conserved They have undefined orientation, but Some physicists think that spin is author of one of the most used quantum textbooks. shows that you can derive the right values of the by looking at the energy and charge That's the quantum field surrounding imply that even if the electron is point like, it's angular momentum can arise However you explain it, we have an excellent We say that particles described by spinors - 1/2, 3/2, 5/2, etc. The electron itself has Their intrinsic angular momenta can only the reduced Planck constant, projected onto whichever direction particles fermions. Particles that have integer include the force-carrying particles like by spinors but instead by vectors, and behave them back to their original state. This difference in the rotational results in profound differences in their behavior - it defines how they interact able to pile up in the same quantum states, This anti-social behavior of fermions manifested as the Pauli Exclusion for us having a periodic table, for electrons actually having structure. It's the reason you don't fall through the floor right now. lead to such fundamental behavior? Well this theorem - which we'll come back to in an Electrons aren't spinning - they're doing we call spin is a clue to the structure of itself through these things we call spinors spacetime. Last time we talked about the connection between a heady topic to say the least, but you guys questions. Joseph Paul Duffey asks whether entropy is isolated components within a &quot;larger&quot; is that entropy is sort of relative. The air in a room may be perfectly mixed and so considered "high" entropy. But if that room then the total room + environment is at a - if you opened the doors and Von Neumann entropy is different to thermodynamic contained in the system and extractable in to the system by entanglement with the the other hand, classical or information that is hidden beneath the crude be extracted. And yet von Neumann entropy has has no entanglement with the environment then consider a subsystem within that Randomaited asks the following: If entropy was at its minimum at the Big Bang, does that the Big Bang? To answer this we'd need to that's one of the central mysteries of the So we can't really talk about the t=0 beginning about quantum gravity and inflation and whatever yet. But what we do know is that at some very, was extremely compact - which meant hot and compact part is where the low entropy comes were almost entirely unoccupied. On the other entropy associated with matter was extremely get between all of the particles and the different entropy massively outweighed the matter entropy, to suggest the particles of the early universe they spread out their energy? Chris Hansen makes the same point, asking if started out entangled. You'd think so - but that von Neumann entropy is relative to the system you're talking about, Let's say you have a bunch of particles are all entangled with another bunch of particles particles then it seems like there's no system. And yet those particles may have correlated connection to the outside. In the early inflation may have permanently separated entangled thermal equilibrium which does NOT require maximal In other words, the universe - or our patch at low entropy, even if it was at thermal Lincoln Mwangi also dropped some knowledge, named after Dr, Shannon, the founder of the of these things, the word has been corrupted This is very disrespectful, and I intend to Right after we upload this video to the Claude.