My lead source tonight, CNN political analyst and senior political correspondent for The New York Times, Maggie Haberman. And, Maggie, you have new reporting on the president elect, support for Matt Gaetz. Where is his head out on this right now? So, Caitlin, he is not backing off, as you said. He is calling people senators and others trying to push gates and three other very controversial nominees through once the nominating process actually begins. It hasn't yet. You'd think that Trump was in office already based on how much talk there is, but he is very focused on getting gates over the line privately. He has said in discussions with people that he thinks that gates, his chances of getting confirmed are, you know, or less than even. But he is still going to push ahead with it, and he is digging in. And I expect that that is going to be the posture for as long as he can hold it. When he know, less than 50%, which I think is probably generous when you talk to two people, there seems to be a very clear eyed view of the fight happening here. Is there a sense that they're preparing replacements for, if that, if it does come to that situation or not? From your understanding, at they're not talking openly about replacements, but they have a number of options who they have looked at the AG post, attorney general post. As you know, Caitlin is one of the most important to president elect Trump, and it is something that he has been talking about for a very long time among the people who could fill that role. And it doesn't mean necessarily would, but who could fill that role? Should gates falter? Could be Todd Blanch, who is Trump's personal lawyer and the choice for deputy attorney general. And when it comes to to what that looks like. I mean, picking his personal attorneys to also go into the administration, he's now at four with picking Will sharp over the weekend to to be staff secretary notable in and of itself. But but you know as we're triaging the headlines here, the other pick here that seems to be pushing the boundaries of what the system is going to take, is his pick for the Pentagon chief. Obviously, Pete Hegseth has been part of this as well. What did you hear? What have you heard over the last 48 hours of how Trump is viewing that, given we've learned he he did pay money to the woman that's accusing him of sexual assault, which I should note. He and his attorney are denying there's more concern from some people around Trump than there is from Trump himself about this whole issue. Trump has really dug in and has told advisers that he is going to stick with Texas now. We'll see if anything else emerges. They did do a vet. We are told this did not show up this issue because it was a private settlement. According to the people who are briefed on what took place. Trump really likes Pete Hegseth. But this did introduce the thing Trump doesn't like, which is an element of surprise and a negative headline. And so we will see where this goes. But for now, he is sticking with him as he is with gates. Most of the heat right now Caitlyn is on gates. And so where Trump's thinking and his advisers thinking is, is that he can basically shift what the bar is for acceptability and how much controversy the Senate system will tolerate. If gates goes. Maybe the other three, Tulsi Gabbard and RFK Jr being the others, get through. There viewing it that way is up by design from what you've heard. Or is it just, you know, they're seeing it as they have multiple nominees that are, you know, questionable about getting confirmed. Yeah. I think that these are people who they've decided they're going to stick to. In the case of Robert F Kennedy Jr. And in the case of Tulsi Gabbard, they were two people who became part of his coalition. In his campaign, gates was picked, you know, almost on a whim aboard his airplane, as you know. And Hegseth was an instinctive pick on his part. But somebody who he's thought about before for another role put together, he's just decided he is going to battering ram, a battering ram the system and see where it lands. You know how the negative headlines could affect Trump and his shape, his perception of a policy or a person? Is it do do you think he's doing it differently this time than he was when he was last in office, when a negative headline could really, you know, get someone pushed out of a job? Is he still seeing it the same way this time around? I think it depends on who it is. Caitlin, you reported earlier that he's grown irritated with Howard. Nick, that is correct. It's not really so much about headlines. It actually it didn't begin this way, but it was exacerbated in an interview that Nick did with you. and he was very irritated by that interview, as Nick was making all kinds of statements and people around him were irritated as Nick was making statements that they did not do helpful. And like Nick, has been around a lot. Trump has complained to people that like Nick has been quote unquote too much, even as he appreciates what Nick has done in the transition and his financial support for the campaign and for for whatever other efforts he's involved with. that kind of thing. Trump doesn't like. There are other negative headlines that he has proven more willing to tolerate, because he's he is willing to dismiss certain headlines if they're in line with the kinds of difficulties that he himself has faced, such as accusations about sexual harassment or sexual assault or sexual misconduct. So he views those negative headlines differently, because he himself has also been accused of those of those things. Correct. And says that and says they're false. Yes. on the Treasury aspect, can we just say why that reaction? Because it is. You know, it seems to be the primary thing that everyone in Trump is talking about today. Given this is now dragged out. Here we are Monday night. No decision. Still nothing behind the scenes. It seems like either. You know, Howard, Nick made this push for it. But there are other names that also came down here, met with Trump. Seemed like they were on the verge of getting it. And it's still very much seems to be anyone's job to have at this moment. Maggie. That's right. There are new names coming in. Jonathan Swan and I reported yesterday about Kevin War. She talks about him before Mark Rowan from Apollo is another name. Senator Bill Hagerty is another. There are other names that are floating around, unlike other roles where Trump had a real clear idea of what he wanted in them because the policy area was narrower, or because the scope of what he expected them to be involved with was more specific and something he was more engaged with. You know, the economic roles have always been a little more complicated for him. And on this one, yes, he has told people he wants a big name, but what exactly that means is not clear. You know, he does. He has a credential list and he does like big Wall Street names. And so it's not surprising that he is still looking around because he has moved so quickly with so many other choices. We will see where this goes this week. The desire for a lot of people around him is to have it done by the end of the week, not just this post, but a number of other economic jobs in the administration. What about the loyalty aspect on that front? Because obviously that's that's something Trump prized so much in this role as he was looking at it and or in every role that he's looking at. But he has hired people who've criticized him. I mean, JD Vance obviously had previously criticized him, Marco Rubio and, you know, Mark Rowan, the Wall Street billionaire, that you were talking about this under consideration for Treasury. He was saying last December that he didn't like the choices when it was clear it was going to be a Biden Trump race. He was saying, you know, he couldn't believe that in a country of this many, this many millions of people, that those were the two options. And so he was disappointed with it. Does that factor into how Trump makes the call, like this one? I have no doubt that there will be efforts to get that in front of Trump, and to make sure those those factors are in his head. If Trump ruled out every person who had ever criticized him, he'd have a pretty empty government. And so I think that in some cases it moves past that. It depends on what else they offer him. You know, in the case of JD Vance, it's really clear why it is that he likes JD Vance in this particular job, the Treasury secretary job, he does want somebody who can speak on TV. He does want somebody who can go on CNBC and be effective at making a case for the Trump economy, and he wants somebody who he doesn't believe is going to try to be a voice in opposition to the tariffs that he wants. That was a big issue in his initial term. So we'll see where it goes. And can I ask you you also reported over the weekend about Boris, Epstein, who is a close Trump aide who basically organized all of Trump's legal defenses when it came to his criminal cases. He played a role in picking back aides on that airplane ride that you were talking about. You reported over the weekend just about the level of influence that seems to be even surprising. Some people in Trump's circle about him know, including Elon Musk, who has, raised eyebrows about it and we are told by multiple people, has chafed, at Boris Epstein privately and of his influence privately. There is no doubt that Boris Epstein, who is currently under indictment in Arizona for his own alleged role in the so-called fake elector scheme in 2020 to overthrow Joe Biden's win. He is basically orchestrating all of these legal appointments in key jobs around, president elect Trump, the deputy attorney general, the principal deputy attorney general, the white House staff secretary, and the white House counsel. Those are really key roles. He is weighing in on other picks as well that go beyond that legal area. So, you know, people who are questioning why he has so much influence and complaining about it. And there are he has a number of detractors in that world. The person that they have to ask about that is Donald Trump, who has empowered him.