-Our first guest tonight and producer you know from and &quot;The Big Bang Theory.&quot; She's both starring in the second season which returns to HBO Max Let's take a look. -Well, well, well. Hello, gorgeous. -You know, I have been seeing Are you stalking me? -I took a transpacific route. I am seeing all of the sights. -Mm-hmm. -And doing the secret work that we can't talk about 'cause it's so much fun! talking about, I would tell you are two very different things. -And we're not -...talk about it. -Please welcome back to the show [ Cheers and applause ] -I'm so happy to have you -Hi, Seth! in person and see you. -Yes. We've done Zoom. this is the better of the two. I can high-five you. -We can touch. -Yes, I like it. -And do not take this I just -- -You can't be too safe -You're right. There we go. -Hey, so I want to talk -- You have a rescue dog. -With a great name I feel like if I say it, so why don't you say it? -Dump Truck. Dumpy. -Yeah, known as -- -He answers to Dumpy. -And did you -- the minute you saw Dumpy, you -You know, I don't think you can take -No, you can't, yeah. -You can't be like, &quot;Sebastian!&quot; -Yeah. He is a Dump Truck, all the way. -And he really answers to Dumpy. -Although, he's a little guy. -I think when you hear you might think a bigger dog. -Now, I should note -- I want to in this photo is getting makeup. -Dumpy doesn't always -No, Dumpy got to do a scene -Okay. Gotcha. and brought his glam squad -Yeah. in the first episode, So there is his -- [ Laughter ] This is only the kind of who is like -- belongs to and star of the show gets. -Yes, that's my chair Yeah. Now, did -- did Dumpy Did you pull strings? We were looking for a dog for this opening sequence We were thinking, like, I'm like, &quot;Guys, we should -Right. -Gotcha. -Got it. You know, he wanted He wanted a trailer. Was -- because I would Like, I, for real, had my dog and it was -- -Yeah, and she was a huge dud. [ Laughter ] But it was my fault. She did not like being out here. -It was just a bad idea. -I was like a stage mom. So he -- I wasn't actually in the scene with him I was off camera like, I was crazy. stage moms people talk about. -But he really performed. -He actually yawned on cue. -That's shocking. -Yeah. his whole life. So it was perfect. -Well, he also is famously bored -Famously bored, -But this is -- That is not true, this, again, You got -- now people should in closing credits of a show... -...it's a big deal to not have -Yes. So -- yes, So you get a single card. It takes a lot of negotiating. Teams negotiate that for their their only name on the card So, Dumpy, since he is related -Yeah. -This is what you will see -And I mean, Your agent -Two lines. in there, as well. There were a lot of But Dumpy was very pleased -Hey, this show just took off when it came out, now, I guess, -Yes. for a ton of awards. to see you after they had learned -Thank you. when you do a second season -Oh, my God, I did not I'm like, -Right. Let's just walk out of here, It was really good.&quot; I was so shocked I hate to say that, about doing something so new. -And then it did really well, and I kind of thought But then they came up and more international travel. We went to Iceland and Berlin, And then they wrote me -- -Which is -- I mean -- -As an actor, it's both to play five different versions of yourself, but also, it just must feel -Well, do you know who I don't -Who's that? -Yeah, I would imagine. That was a lot of me, -Right. -And now I know -Well, there you go. -It was a lot of empathy. -I worked with but it was just a lot of myself and it was a very wild Very similar to &quot;Orphan Black.&quot; -We actually and learned a lot It was a crazy, crazy time. -That's great. You mentioned Iceland is one of I've ever been to. -Over Christmas. -Which I thought was insane. -I'm like, &quot;You guys, we're It's like 20 degrees.&quot; It ended up being incredible. -Also, that time of year, It was amazing, but it's like -Literally three hours. -We have three hours of -The sun doesn't go, like -- I feel like -Yes. -Yeah. -There's nothing. It's like, &quot;Hi, bye!&quot; We're done now!&quot; And you're like, And then -- yeah, exactly. But what I loved about it, I'm kind of an elf -And it's like Christmas -Yeah. the North Pole. there's Santas in the street, -There's a lot of, like, that live there, I think. -Yeah, a lot of people -That is right. I feel like Iceland -- -Trolls! -They're big on trolls there. -Yeah, they're, like, And not like, &quot;ha ha&quot; -- where trolls live,&quot; yeah. Yeah, it's really bizarre, -It's really bizarre. of trolls. -I didn't -No. -It's weird that they think magnetic to people. -Yeah, like, &quot;I wanna go -Where the trolls are. -It's one of the most beautiful -I -- I loved it. I'm not gonna tell them how They're obviously doing -I know! And there's no COVID there, -There you go. this little bubble. -I know. Now, historically, -Okay. I love pranks. -Okay. -You don't like being pranked? -Do you like pranking people? -No? Okay. -Yeah. I think I'm really good at it, but I learned this season -Okay. on our show, They just pranked me. I mean, I don't -- It's just a very impressive -This is insane. -Because this is what -- -They covered my car in like -Yeah. -And filled it That's -- -Yeah. one afternoon. And they were out covering -Yeah. -This one is -- Is this -- this one's, I hope this happened before, you'd be like -- -Yeah, just &quot;Stupid face.&quot; &quot;Stupid face.&quot; wouldn't be like -- if somebody &quot;I did this,&quot; and you were like, -&quot;Stupid face!&quot; -They'd be like, &quot;Wait. It's like, &quot;No, I just wrote it -They always put a different on my chair, every single day -We have a video of you failing. In the dino outfit? Yes. So explain what you wanted -So, one of my co-stars told me -Okay. Now, of course, I'm like, &quot;Okay, now that I got to figure something out.&quot; -Okay. his trailer, which I thought I ended up sitting in this thing waiting for him to come out. and they were giving me So he came out, This man is made of stone. -Yeah. -All right. -I thought I looked -Okay. because we do have a clip that theory immediately. -Okay. you're talking about --like, &quot;Jurassic Park.&quot; -You're wearing -It was inf-- I thought it was terrifying -All right, well, let's take a whether or not you -- if Kaley did this to you. -[ Screaming ] [ Laughter ] -He's just talking to me. -Wouldn't that scare you? is watching the kind of talking to him. my hands like -- &quot;Oh, I thought you'd be scared.&quot; -How about that I stood -20 minutes? -Yeah, I was going to say. I told them I was going and got in that thing and waited -So you were -- the better prank the rest of your crew that just -For three extra hours? That was the worst prank Yes, they didn't laugh. now that you finished that people are gonna -Oh, my gosh. right? And, you know, and all these different things, And I just can't believe But I'm thrilled It is time to land this plane. -But I'm super proud of it. so many years ago, and I -- I can't believe we're here -Well, congratulations. -It's really an amazing show. -I'm so happy it's back I'm so happy to have you back -Thank you, Seth. Second season returns to HBO Max tomorrow.