Today, we'll be comparing Windows 10 to Windows Well let's go ahead and find out. Starting off redesign. Pinned apps moved from the right side are replaced with static icons in a grid. The rather than being part of the taskbar. And those side are now at the bottom. And here's something the new recommended section that shows recently synced with OneDrive. Think of this like a much found in Windows 10's Task Viewer. The all apps in Windows 10, is now its own menu in Windows 11, older programs like Windows Explorer and Notepad the Windows System or Windows Accessories folder removed and replaced with a shortcut to Control built-in Windows programs that were previously in we see a lot of differences. The icons went from a setting to revert this, and if you look closely hard to notice but it is there. The UI for it's now indicated by the color and length of a rounded square around a program when active. The certain actions have been redesigned, for example, installing something and here are both animations Account Control prompt. There are now bouncy Badges on apps have gotten a little redesign. you'll get little quick actions you can do Button no longer changes color based on your some features that got removed from the taskbar taskbar to the bottom now, no more top, left, or taskbar buttons are now gone, as well as the text previews of the programs from the taskbar. taskbar anymore for some reason which is pretty give all those little settings and shortcuts, just general UI changes, so starting off, say goodbye to the rounded corners in Windows 11 and this Windows 11 is now round, even the very very old minimizing, and maximizing a window. Windows Windows 11, the animation has a lot more resizing icon in Windows 11 has been redesigned to stay Some elements of this were present in Windows 10, like the control panel. As with every modern Previously there was the old Hero wallpaper, and now the background is much like a blue also introduced new themes. Previously in Windows now there are six. Light mode is also now the hybrid of a dark taskbar and light apps in Windows it now resembles the Microsoft logo a lot more. it's pretty underwhelming. To sum it up, elements quick status is now removed, you can only show now introduces a new blur effect called mica and wallpaper even if the window is on top of a window blur shows the desktop wallpaper as opposed to the both being in front of Notepad. Windows 11 now to mispronounce this, Segoe UI Variable, which is UI font found in Windows 10. To paraphrase, pleasing and easier font to read. The screen doing updates, restarting, and stuff like that now where it takes your accent color and sets that as on whether you're using the dark or light mode, a black or white background in Windows 11, rather the accent color in Windows 10. Context menus look more modern, however there is still an option that allows you to see the old one that is seen in boxes for things like changing display settings redesign in Windows 11. Unlike Windows 10, Windows text boxes. Finally, in Windows 11's Sign-in in Windows 10, and the enter arrow looks like it's in Windows 10. In terms of System sounds, Windows mode and light mode. In dark mode, the sounds are they are more clear and less echoed. It's comparison of the sounds in Windows 10, Next let's talk about the Action Center overhaul Action Center anymore, it's separated in two Quick Settings is not only an area that shows Center in Windows 10, but it now also shows the your Wi-Fi controls. In Windows 10, all three of lets say the network icon in the system tray, it'll now take you to the entire quick settings the Windows + A shortcut on your keyboard, which in Windows 10. The other menu is the notifications notifications are found above the calendar instead notifications round, but they're also no longer have a shortcut to Focus assist settings in the using the Windows + N shortcut on your keyboard. the calendar, you'll be pretty disappointed. It the detailed clock that showed seconds is also it. Luckily, you can minimize the calendar within And here's a little comparison of the news feed Now, don't be fooled, these are pretty much almost and are found in different areas of Windows. The widgets panel is accessed via a taskbar icon or by Last thing to note is that the news feed is widgets panel is partially customized within the Microsoft has also made a number of changes Starting off, the task viewer has now been feature that is found in Windows 10 has now been for each virtual desktop in Windows 11 rather than Snap assist preview now has a frosted glass look The animation when you actually preview and snap Windows 10 doesn't even have an animation when Snap assist is just much smarter now and is so for example, when snapping a window in a other windows while in Windows 10, snapping to to snap different windows on different parts sort those windows into a group, and those groups Windows 10 doesn't have this feature, so groups The line seen when resizing apps side-by-side now disappears in Windows 11 while still being present built-in programs and apps. Now, many of the and more updates are to come even after its to cover in one video, here are just the biggest have been some various UI changes. There's now of File Explorer which tries to simplify and get It'll also have less spaced-out icons by default, 3D Objects is no longer its own dedicated folder. it's now supposed to be easier to navigate, more see more enlarged icons and pictures that make the And just like the Settings App, the Microsoft UI and various improvements. However, one of accepting more app types such as PWA which are web even android apps, though support for that will which is a huge bonus. Skype, which was preloaded Microsoft Teams integration system built in to again if you really need it. Internet Explorer it is nowhere to be found, so your only option is but not on Windows 11. Microsoft has also done removing duplicate Windows accessories what they're basically doing is they're updating duplicate version. For example, Snip &amp; Sketch Tool is now here with a more modern UI and various be done with paint in the future, where Paint3D is be updated not only with a new look, but with a preloaded application in Windows 11 and aims command lines into just one app. Alarms and Clock called Focus sessions aimed to help people pace other little updates to apps, pretty much all the be updated with Windows 11's new design language, Here's a quick rundown of preloaded apps on one and these are apps that I haven't mentioned yet. OneNote for Windows 10, and the People App are Get Started, Microsoft News, and Microsoft To Do these can still be installed through the Microsoft Panel, The People App, and Get Started. Now let's features. When you turn a device into a tablet spaced out. However, Windows 10 has two options. Windows 11, or you can have it enable tablet mode available in Windows 11. Touch enabled controls elements are stickier. For example, look at how than I am able to in Windows 10. This is because and feel stickier. Now here's a rundown of the new form left to right from the edge in Windows 11 it shows task viewer. Swiping from right to left 10 and Notifications &amp; Calendar in Windows 11. on tablet mode in Windows 10, you can close apps If you touch the screen with four fingers and between virtual desktops, and if you do the same windows. If you swipe up with three or four three and four fingered gestures just talked about for rotating your screen has been changed between while Windows 11 flips everything like it does both versions of Windows behave differently look what's happening. In Windows 10, the switch to while in Windows 11, the windows stay in the screen. The touch keyboard in Windows 11 has and keys are now rounded compared to the square navigating to certain settings are supposed to your keyboard and not be stuck with just white experiences you'll get setting up both versions of completely redone. In Windows 10, the setup screen navigating throughout the setup. In Windows 11, new animations, new icons, new loading screens, a big part of the Windows 10 setup experience, longer part of the setup experience in Windows hasn't changed much between both versions. The to name the computer, which was actually not you'll be greeted with some text and animation on ready. Not only is the text different during visual overhaul. In Windows 10, the background was in Windows 11, a blurry, blueish-purple, round an interesting little find, when the entire setup the start menu will now automatically pop up, If you know Windows history, you'll know that setting up Windows XP as well. Final important to install Windows as a 32-bit option in Windows the final version to support that will now be about Windows Update. Firstly, the text that is a restart has been changed. Windows 10 basically 11 just uses more natural language. Secondly, of time needed to complete updates. And finally, Microsoft was committed to releasing a feature in Windows 11, you'll only get one feature you can now decide whether to upgrade to Windows