Ladies and gentlemen, it's spooky season and I don't feel spooky enough. Editor, make me spooky. I've decided that today I want to experience what it's like to have too much spooky. What happens when you add layers of spooky all on top of each other and create a big spooky sandwich? I don't know. But what I do know is that there's some wildly spooky Minecraft add-ons on the marketplace. Surprisingly, there's not an insane amount of them, but there's enough here on screen that today I can add all of the spookiest add-ons to one Minecraft world just to find out how much spooky is too much spooky. I'm saying spooky a lot today. You're gonna be tired of the word spooky by the end of this intro. I have a list of nine spooky or spooky adjacent add-ons that I think each have a good chance of scaring us by themselves. I'm sure combining them all together couldn't possibly make things any worse, right? Can I disinvite myself in this video? So let's start really simple here with real light reimagine. Part of what makes horror content so spooky is the environment the players find themselves in. If you can't see in the dark, then I think some dynamic lighting might go a long way to sell that atmosphere. I mean, just look at these screenshots. This is so spooky. This is kind of sick. I'm not gonna lie. I'm really excited about this. I've wanted dynamic lights in bedrock for ages and this might be a good solution. So even though this isn't directly a horror mod like some of the other ones on this list, I think it's gonna be pretty solid. Like I said, atmosphere, it's gonna be great. I'm not already scared. You're already scared. Ha ha, how dare you be scared? Ha, hmm, hmm, I'm terrified. Let me just buy that for $3. Oh boy. Next up here we have the scary add-on. And yeah, no, that checks out. This is pretty scary. I mean, what better add-on to add to a horror video than a scary add-on? Look at these dudes. Look at that freaking goat. What's happening to that goat? I guess we'll find out. Oh my gosh, that is terrifying. Ooh, weapons, armor, that's cool. Whoa, there's so many things. Oh my gosh. This one in and of itself could be a standalone video. This is insane. Is this guy wearing goat armor? That's crazy. The scariest, we're starting off strong. This is the scariest one. All right, that's it. We found the scariest one, guys. New creatures, weapons, and bosses to any world. Oh boy. 19 new mobs, the dweller, six new armor sets, dude. That's really funny because there's a couple other things that the next ones also add, so we might be doubling up on some of this. I just wanna quickly glance at this trailer. Oh yeah, no, that's, yeah, that's pretty scary. I'm not gonna lie. What the heck is the thing in, what is that? I guess we're gonna find out. I need to not watch this. I'm not gonna spoil it for myself. This is it, I'm just not gonna spoil it. Awesome, $4, I'll take it. For the record, I'm also writing down the prices of everything so that I can add it up at the end and see how much debt I am now. Please like this video so I can pay this back. Oh boy, yep, here we go. So we're gonna have more dwellers. That's cool. Goatman, three mimic dwellers, cavern dweller, the man from the fog, the watchtower, the all-seeing one, the unseen death. If that isn't a hook, I don't know what is. This is gonna be insane. I'm kind of terrified. There's flashlights in this one, oh my gosh. Dude, look at this, oh my gosh. That's terrifying. This is gonna be, oh whoa, whoa, I don't like that at all. Oh, Goatman, wow. Dude, this is gonna be, whoa, whoa, I'm just, what is that, there's a robot guy. You can't outrun, oh boy. That's super cool, thanks for letting me know. That's freaky, cool. We're just gonna add that one too. Don't mind if I do. There's a $6 add-on, geez. That's only three of the nine, and we already have multiple dwellers and bosses. And I think multiple Goatman, I won't lie. Oh gosh, what am I getting myself into? Only two of them were real horror mods too. One of them was literally dynamic lighting. The other two are like, oh geez, okay, what's next? I bought a bunch of coins for this, but I don't know if I'm gonna have enough. Oh yeah, bosses plus. I figured this would just be a fun add-on because they look kind of scary. Like look at that guy. These look scary. I figured this would be just a fun one to add because it would just add more terrifying giant creatures to this. I mean, also look at that face. That's haunting, sick. Yup, I'm just gonna get this one. Don't mind if I do. That's just another $6 down the drain. Love to see it. This is, oh man. Oh, this is another good one. Oh yes, crafty creepers add-on. This adds over 20 new creeper variants with different properties. Okay, this is actually kind of sick. This one's fun because I figured we could camouflage creepers so they could sneak up on us better. That's a good idea. I told you this would be scary and this might be one of the scariest of bunch. Not gonna lie. Every variant can be charged with a lightning strike. That's good to know. Also, what the heck is that giant tall stone one? Is that a thing? What is that? Is it really that tall? I actually don't know if it's really that tall. Oh, whoa. I don't know if I like whatever's happening there. That's creepy. Oh, there's a mushroom guys. Dude, this actually looks so sick. There's a ghost one. It's perfect. This guy's a Bob the Builder. All right, I'm sold. I'll take it. $3, let's do it. And just like that, I've run out of mine coins. Sick. I still have four more. I'm out though. I need to buy more. Thousands of tears later. All right, we've got enough for the rest. Here we go. More creatures add-on. This one just looked really cool. There's 30 plus new creatures. There's a monster Lord boss. New tools by loose screw. I'm gonna have a loose screw by the end of this video. Whoa, look at these guys. Yeah, this is cool. There's a couple of little spooky guys, little spooky dudes. Look at this little spooky guy. Whoa, robots. That's cool. Whoa, they're so, oh, they're not spooky at all. That's a little relief from the spooky. And then there's those guys. I don't like whatever's going on here. I don't like whatever that is. Whoa, tree dudes and mushroom gremlins. This is, whoa. Oh, frog guy. Hello. Yeah, sure. $3 worth it. 100%. More chaos. I mean, why not? You know, that's what we're here for. Next up, we have fairy tales. This one, I saw the Wendigo in the artwork for it. And I was like, okay, that seems sick. I kind of want that. Also, there's Medusa. So we'll see how that goes. Look at, like, look at that guy. Look at this little dude. Look at, look at the freaking guy. Also, why doesn't this guy have a head? What happened? What? This like looked really spooky and fun because of the Wendigo. And honestly, all the rest of it looks amazing too. So I'm really excited about it. There's a little crab guy. What the heck is that? There's an executioner axe. That's cool. Great. I'm gonna see that big crab. But we can be mermaids. So I'm sold. $4, sure. For the Wendigo, anything, you know? Second to last, we've got the zombies add-on, which includes, you guessed it, zombies. Who knew that the zombie, whoa, what the heck? That's whoa. I was gonna say who knew the zombies add-on added zombies, but apparently it also adds wizardry. So that's awesome. I'm here for it. You know what? Dread Lord, the undying overlord. Okay, this is crazy. This is so cool. What? Nice guys. That's so neat. This is, okay, this is gonna be really cool. Let's see the trailer. Yep, that's all I need to see. $5, easy justification. And last but certainly not least, we've got the Horror Survival 2.0 add-on. It looks like it adds one of the guys from earlier too. I don't know what that is. 20 plus new monsters, 60 plus unique items, 15 plus trinkets, a boss fight, seven new armor sets and weapons, custom enchantments, OP trades, craftable dynamic fog. This sounds amazing. Man, I sure hope all of these things work together well. Look at that guy. What is that guy? That guy's crazy. Oh my gosh, this guy's spooky. That is what we're here for. Oh my gosh. Okay, this one's, yeah, this one's terrifying. Wow, this is gonna be, oh, another Wendigo. Yo. Oh, oh. Okay, we're gonna move swiftly past that screenshot. That's, whoa. Spooky, spooky, Slender. Yes, dude, $6. What is download? Download. Do I own it though? I don't know if I own it. Why does it have both that I can buy? I'm just gonna buy it too. Oh, it's in the marketplace pass. Do I have the marketplace pass? I don't know what's going on, but now I own it. So that's cool. Excellent. And I'm just gonna tally the money here. Need my calculator, hold on. Two very borrowing minutes later. Oh, $40. (laughing) I just spent $40 on one Minecraft world. To be fair, the last time I did this, it was like 70 bucks. So hopefully it doesn't add up anymore with this realm that I'm gonna set up for this. Oh boy. Time to experience what the spookiest Minecraft world of all time is. This is gonna be a lot. Guys, welcome to my Minecraft world that has 10 freaking horror add-ons in it. You do realize with time zone, it's about to be midnight for me, right? Oh gosh, yeah, for you, this is gonna be rough. Oh man. Oh my God. I have terrifying news. In my inventory, there's an oak log. You protect me while I put the cat downstairs. Is it? There he is! Oh my God! Oh my God! What is that? Is that a cow with wings? Ah! What the? (screaming) How did you even get him? What in the world? Please! Oh, I got a book. There's like a cow with wings. Is that a chicken? Well, hey. What have you, what have you, what is that? What is what? Let me, I need to find out. This! What is that? This! This! Ah! (screaming) What the heck? Get him! Oh! I'm gonna grab this stuff. I'm gonna grab this. Is that a chair? I got a chair. Ah! Oh my God, it's so dark down here. Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Okay. Okay, that was wild looking. What the heck? Literally, the dread lord didn't even kill me. SystemZee was slain by plague cow. (laughing) Don't you hate when plague cow is there? Oh, then dang plague cows, bro. You know? Oh, hello, what is that? Oh, it's a little lizard. Oh, that's the dread lord. Oh, oh, yeah. What is that? I agree. Can I disinvite myself in this video? It's okay, it's okay. It's getting light out. It's getting light out. It's okay, we're good. Somehow, fun gets survived. We gotta meet up again. That's, that is typical. That's pretty impressive. Even though there's a frigging dread lord. Yeah, that was my bad. I kind of spawned like a bunch of dread lords. Yeah, that makes sense. Wow. What is that? Where did you go? There's something really shiny, shining over in the, in the. Oh, go towards it. I'm sure nothing could possibly go wrong with that. Is that the sun? Wait, Knarfy, look. It's the sun rising. No, that's the moon. Come look at the sun rising with me. Oh, the blood moon is setting. That's setting. It's that setting over there. Wait. Hello? Hello? (laughing) Let's get, let's get going. Wait, let's get going. Climb, climb. The tree is-- Climb, okay. I don't know what else to do. What is the heartbeat? (laughing) It's so loud. What is that? It's so loud. Hold me, I'm scared. I don't know what that is. I just added these. I genuinely have no idea. It got me, it got me. I'm rest in peace. I'm actually, I'm actually-- I genuinely have no idea what that is. Well, I'm gonna get created real quick. Do some research. Hey, it's daytime again. Oh God, what's going on? Oh, what, what, what? The hunt is here. The hunt is-- (laughing) What is going on? It's so dark. What is this? It's so dark. [copyright free SystemZee music] What the heck? I'll be your camera in the sky. [copyright free SystemZee music] Helicopter camera. What do I hear like drums or is that Z message on that? Yeah, no, the hunt is here. I don't know what it means, but the hunt-- I have an apple. There he is, there he is. It's the hunt. (laughing) I'm so glad you're coming. I'm so glad you're coming. I need an apple. A goblin? What the-- What, I, I found a freaking Mario plant. I don't know what to do with that. What is this monster? Zee, do I look incredibly buff if I take off my helmet? I feel like I look really strong for no reason. You're like really buff for no reason. Yeah, I feel like I look really good. Wandering trader. No way. Wandering trader. Oh, nevermind, I found two leads. Okay, that's that. Hey, Fundy, you ever seen the episode when-- Oh yeah, that's Harry Potter. That's my favorite episode, Harry. The Eye of Sauron. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. I got it. The Unseen Death Shrine. Oh good, now there's two of them. That was the wrong episode. That was the wrong episode. You ever seen the episode when-- Did you just hear that? What the heck? Hold on, wait. Oh god, all right, the hunt is back. Okay, wait, come here, come here. Wait, wait, wait, wait. What the heck? This guy. Look at this. You found the hunt. This guy's saying things. What is this thing? What is this thing? Look at him. Get him. Get him, boys. Wandering trader. Wandering trader. Why does he say-- (laughing) Get him, guys. What the heck? (laughing) Knarfy, what did you install? What is going on? Fundy, I installed everything. Guys, remember just there was one day where all of us decided, oh, that game looks fun. And now-- Here we are. What is our objective? What are we here to do? I think we need to find which one of the bosses is the most powerful out of all of them, because there's a lot. Really? That's my plan. Yeah, such like Dread Lord-- Dread Lord, the Undying Overlord. Overlord is probably a good place to start. He is so crazy. (laughing) What is that? Is that a minotaur? It's the Monster Lord. What are you doing? (speaking gibberish) Am I scary? (speaking gibberish) Rawr Oh. (laughing) What? What? Don't talk about my problem, man. Yeah, no, that's fine. Wait, are you a female toothless? Hubla-la-huba. Wait, guys, guys, guys, I got a really good idea, okay? Oh, gosh. I've seen this on like funny TV shows. Let's fax our butt to people. Oh, yeah, do that. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm gonna scan my butt real quick. Oh, shit. Oh, no. What the heck was that thing? Oh, you dropped your unicorn, sorry. Oh, yeah, sorry. I just died. I'll see you later. What the, how did I-- I'm actually upset by the fact that this is a video that I'm a part of. I have an idea, you ready? All right, I'm gonna start a timer on my phone for a minute. And we have one minute to get anything we want from the creative inventory, and then I set it to nighttime. Last Man Standing wins. Three, two, one, go. Oh, snap. Oh, god, oh, god, oh, god. Wait, so what, I think I even got a survive? What is going on, Fundy? Oh, my god. I hissed at you. [incoherent panicking noises] Three, two, one, go. I'm running from you guys, I'm outta here. Oh, my god. Here we go. Oh, no, I'm gonna die. Here we go, here we go. I died, I died instantly. Tell me why an item exists just for it to kill you. Okay, where do you know-- Phantoms really do suck, I don't know, but I'm gonna give you a good match. All right, that was your minute, so. What is that? That's not the moon, that's in front of blocks. Oh, my gosh. I know, it's so janky. It's in front of the mountain. As you move, what in the world? That's spooky. Last Man Standing wins. All right. Jeez, okay. Yep, yep. (laughing) I grabbed the wrong fireworks. Okay, I got a bow that doesn't work, and I'm being hit by an invisible-- (screaming) Oh, I just got a delivery. I'll be right back, don't kill me while I'm gone. Oh, no, no, no, no, pause, pause, pause. I need to, what do I have spawned? Spider, zombie, salmon, no, I only got vanilla things. It's a zombie horse. Salmon, panda, camel, oh camel, I can ride a camel. Go, my friend. I feel like I'm gonna survive pretty easily. Whoa. Oh, my camel's just not even in the mood. (dramatic music) Oh, I'm back, I'm back, I'm back, I'm back. And I'm dead, okay. I already won, I've already won. You know what, that feels like a good place to end it. Thanks for watching. Guys, I'm gonna spawn one of three spawn eggs in front of me. It's called the Man from the Fog, or the Watchtower, or the All Seeing One. Hey, how come we just don't? Actually, go Man from the Fog. Man from the Fog. Hello? Oh, this is spooky. Actually, this is genuinely scaring me out. What the heck? Where even are you? I just hear-- Oh, oh my god, oh god, oh god. What the heck? I just heard lighting. I can't see. Ow? That's just a-- There are so many fingerprints on my-- What? Oh my god. Dude, I'm actually scared. I'm actually scared, what's going on? Dude, I'm actually scared. It's chasing me, what is going on? Where did you go? I'm going to the skies. Oh, guys. I'm going to the sky. Dude, dude, dude, dude, dude, dude, dude, dude, dude, listen, listen, listen, listen. This is not funny. I'm pillaring with spawners. I'm pillaring with spawners, because I don't know what to do. Oh god, it's so big. Oh god, I hate that thing. Wait, wait, wait, Fundy, Fundy. Keep in climbing with spawners. Oh, I see you. I see where you are, I see where you are. Oh my god, dude. What the heck? It's gone, it's gone. Did you kill it? No, but I actually got scared. Dude, I need you to see what this looks like. I need you to see what this looks like. Oh, what? Yeah, yeah, yeah, smart. No, no. Yeah, good, keep doing it, keep doing it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh god. Oh my god, oh, what is this? Oh, hello, we found out what causes that. Oh, the fog. This is like a mountain dew commercial. This is how it feels to chew five gum. How it chew to feel five gum. (I... don't even know what I'm gonna-- Oh, okay, nevermind. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Oh, cool. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Come closer. What even is, what even are you? There's something really, really funny about being in creative mode. Oh, oh, I'm under the ground now. This is oddly really funny to just be in creative mode and see this happening because like, having this demonic creature not care the slightest about my presence is really fun. Oh, bad goat man, bad goat man, you better back off. Here's what we're going to do, here's what we're going to do. Okay, yeah. I'm going to TP everyone to us. I need you both to be in survival. Okay. Then I'm going to spawn the man from the fog and you guys deal with it. Wait, can you not? No, wait, can you not? You're both in survival, yeah? Yes, ma'am. I'm going to spawn this thing. I'm going to disappear and you guys will-- Jeez. You guys will experience what I experienced in survival. Oh, why can't you just also join us though? Wait, wait, wait, why can't you also join us? Because I know what's going to happen and I think it's much more fun to leave you guys alone. Anyway, good luck. Oh Is Skrillex playing? he's gone. [literal panic and horror] Think it would be as scary if instead of that music the Wiggles were playing editor play the clip black back, but just Going for Knarfy. Oh my god this Like I'm like some sort of like 50s experiment like that's something that people are gonna make YouTube videos about 50s I'm not again. Oh boy. Oh here we go all right, and now we're gonna do the watchtower this one I will join you for because I don't know what it is. Oh there. He is. I found my dog He's on your dog. Oh hey. Yeah, that what's that guy doing over there? What's not doing? Yeah, hey Fundy you look good. Do it good man. Yeah. Yeah, man. Yeah What oh wait wait look at him. He flies with you all all right here. We go three one watchtower oh Oh, that is a big guy. That's so much. I thought he would be That is way bigger than I got his battery. What oh my god. Just take that as battery. You can go. Oh god. Don't do that Oh, God, what's gonna? Okay? Yup, that I want to do He's about to be mad. Okay, I'm just why oh god. It's a burning zombie. Oh I'm good. I'm good. I'm just gonna go this what have you installed nothing You know you could have gotten for 40 bucks it so many things. What is what is the red line below me? Do you guys have that to have the charging bar? Yeah? That's my sanity bar I bet my sanity will be great when I spawned the all-seeing one oh God whoa whoa yeah, yeah, that's chasing me at the moment whoa oh Chill out bro That's crazy looking it's like speaking to me in Latin happy Halloween. I guess like what the I am somehow pointing the flashlight directly at my regular guys not scary at all I am somehow pointing the flashlight directly into my eyes right now. What there's just screaming. There's just screaming Killing the dweller whoa oh the guys fast. Oh this guys fast. Oh god What like that's that's gonna be a review on that add-on later. Oh, I just found it. I found a goblin I just heard a villager say everything is normal around here everything wait. I see a unicorn everything doesn't matter until this point There's a weapon called the mace is that new that looks new. I'm so sorry. I didn't hear a word you said oh My god, I have a unicorn. I don't even care about dreadlord should we do one of those like actual survival series where we Spawn with like very basic camping gear and then suddenly it's the middle of the night and then we're meant to survive and while we were Initially together we we portray each other and run in separate ways and then one of us dies And then we go like who could have seen that what would we do it? We'll go like let's split up in groups of two one of us gets the shoulder in already that I'm like on the surface Alone right now. Oh god. I spawned the all-seeing I've become one with the sea people I've been on a journey. What is this? I don't understand. I died I It's it's uh, it's my little What anyway? Oh, it's like a mermaid. I see a mermaid out Oh Mother why are there so many what the heck? Yeah, I don't know. I'm going to the sea. I'm going to the sea I'm going to the ocean I'm going under the sea! Zee I found your mother wait you actually found my mother like all the aliens Wait, look look right here ready What do you have it's my mother well, he's Crab-Dabula. That's your mom. Oh wow get her get him wait Mom what is happening? I'll be honest. It's past five o'clock. I don't know our brains are all fried With your mama jokes, that's not cool anymore. Oh Wait, what is this? What's you it's not the sheep. Okay, that's your mom. Hey use this use this this thing real quick I just right-click with it. I don't want oh God I don't know why okay. Oh Wait, Oh earlier it killed me. Why did it do that's really cool and also it does not hey guys Look a completely normal villager with no problems whatsoever Definitely don't try to trade with him And then it's just a regular alien that moves all the scare aliens yeah, just Alien this is the plot of alien Romulus. Hey mom. Oh, hey, sorry. My mom really listens to my conversation. Yeah, she's really intently I love how yeah, you totally are All right, why is it so easy to defeat? Just kind of I must execute my bit. Oh boy. Yeah, bro. Hey, I'm dead My editor knows what to do Is Fundy dead now I'm holding you got him he's is canonically dead Father bring me to mother I'm gonna drown him. Oh My gosh look on completely normal skeleton the most push him push him push him push him off Bro, I'm dead destruction creeper What why is there a hat that I cannot wear? Can we break it I found a laser oh My god, you got a laser. I got a laser Just like that it's gone. That's that's super cool, dude. It is breaking our mental state. I just I found an item called blessing. I just found it's just blessing take this I'll do thank you Dude that's so sweet Someone sounds like they're actually in pain right now. I found a spore tosser. It's a cavern dweller every test of that one yet. Oh, oh Oh, no, it sure does. Whoa. He looks like an amnesia character That's okay, I got it What does it say loser I got it Oh, he's over there now We've got an undead fist Yeah, I just found a back rooms helmet and I don't want to go any further Hey, there's a wandering trader right here. He's like talking human voices for no. Yeah. Yeah What is just not what is on my screen? What the heck was that? What happens if I said it's a midnight? Does he do things? What is he talking about? Don't look suspicious. Wait, are we in creative? Hold on are we in creative? Oh Gani Ow.... If I need you to just stand here if you could just yeah, yeah Hey, Fundy you got a suit no, I'll just I'll just be dead Knarfy look buddy I'm sorry. I've tried to defend you as long as I possibly could But this is like this goes against all of the laws and all of the standards about like Mental warfare of what you're supposed to put your fellow creators through. Um, I'm afraid you're gonna have to lose your Minecraft license. Oh So, I hope you I hope you brought like an attorney or something to represent you. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah Well, he well, he was just he was He was just here. Hello. I am here an attorney. Hello. I have arrived Let me claim my first dispute Like a lawyer walking up to the judge slamming down a piece of paper with like a scribbled in crayon smiley face on it like No, what I love what I love is that you nailed it to my face I need a place to put it. Yeah, give me their forehead. Yeah Yeah, ow, yeah, no, no, that's a good dispute but here's the thing you're my lawyer Fundy remember that that was the whole point Oh, right. Oh, yeah, my two o'clock is here guys. Yeah Yeah, guys, I think we gotta pick this up later I actually have a doctor's appointment that I gotta go to right now. Well, then go lee try try and exit All right, try and exit. Yeah, buddy. That's alright, I got an Axe. Let me turn off the lights. I think I'll be all right. I got an axe. Wait, no stop! You can't. Wait, but I don't need you. That's just run. Oh Okay, thank you Get out of my office this is okay. This is just monstrosity. Oh, there's zombies building. There's God All right attorney Fundy. We're not going out there a trust trust. No look. Yeah, go look go look Just take look to the left. Oh No, why would you do that? Oh, he's like he's like Brito and he's instantly killed Fundy great I'm just gonna go in post a note do not go out there. Oh, it's this guy. What the heck? All right, I'm just gonna be in my office if you boys know hey my lawyer I Hate my microwave goes rogue see I did I did have one friend who ordered a postal service to dispute your claims You aren't survival, right? Yes. All right. Go ahead and have a conversation my friend over here Hey Hey, you guys should subscribe to mumbo-jumbo truth Actually spent 40 bucks. Yes No, but like actually yes, this was easily the worst experience I have ever experienced in a Minecraft world And if I possibly could I would remove myself from the friends list of Knarfy So that I never have to experience this sort of violence in Minecraft ever again Five stars if this would absolutely suck. It would still be more enjoyable how many stars? Five I want my $40 back six stars Fundy live left of the realm I Just realized throughout that whole lawyer bit I was wearing the crabs. Yeah, I should have said I'm feeling crabby Mmm, no