In 2022, frozen food sales reached over $72 billion. Demand has been rapidly Throughout Covid, we had all of the food space. Behind this seemingly sophisticated supply frozen. Each step is very The products have to temperature throughout a refrigerated trucks and Should the temperature unsafe. But it's not just about melting. The percentages are what's tossed and frozen inadequate cold storage And the refrigeration tech We're still relying on The weak link in cold trains, automobiles is perishable good at the Major players in the include privately-held General Mills and So the consumers are product, it's going to capability and a more The perishables are poised those investing in really Supply chain issues and really gone away in the Where's the stuff? Without resilient supply growth and safety of the global frozen food market Can cold storage supply food demand? Virtually purchase frozen food at Since 2019, sales have the American Frozen Food When Covid happened, when got shut down, you saw a sometimes 30%, 40%, 50% Frozen foods demand was pandemic in the U.S., billion in 2020. The pandemic taught bulk buying. Frozen foods selling items during the be really stored for long We're seeing that growth We saw about a 20% growth really very rapid and Most frozen food products increases. We did a recent survey and consumers looked to food waste and also save The main driver is cost. What can consumers A great study by Cornell waste the average fresh and frozen. And frozen food, you're five encounter food waste. Every year, roughly $1,300 American on food that You know, Cargill produces million people around the So that's enough to feed Bangladesh every single The frozen category, variety meats more likely At the end of the day. dinner tonight decision, A great variety of dinners The dinner is packed and The industry has come a when Clarence Birdseye technique that better Before then, the market and textureless products. Quick freezing is one of foods, meat, fruit, He won consumers over. I'm sorry, but I already In the 1950s and '60s food freezing. Birdseye Hawaiian style That flash freezing lot of frozen products particularly with Think frozen plates and freezing or the air blast the oldest and commonly That's when cold air freeze it. Freezing technology really bounds. Flash freezing. And what that means is, coming out of a field in those warm strawberries as they're cleaned, and to -20 degrees and then they can be consumed. The air blasting technique quick freezing, aka IKF. IKF, what it does is it of food, and that does One, the speed of the size of the ice crystal. So it helps preserve the it's thawed or cooked. You want to freeze at And that's really an look at meat or industries have really that message as well. The other way food can be freezing. It uses liquid dioxide to get to quickly, but it can be companies to invest and techniques, plus the cost However, cryogenic since that liquid One estimate puts nearly an hour to freeze cryogenic freezing could It's all about speed. The faster food can crystals that form, which higher quality product. Our data scientists heard strawberries fast enough The algorithm, based on dynamics that were able from three days down to So not only are you freezing the berries, but do that. How to freeze food is just equation. Frozen foods sustainable cold storage consumers. Even Birdseye late 1920s when try Frosted Foods, He refrigerated boxcars for out to retailers. The U.S. still transports In the U.S., we're very developing countries in the cold chain to try products preserved for It's really a way of globally. Approximately 13% of all lost due to poor cold That wasted food could million people. Tenth annual Disruptor 50 private companies incumbents. Number three, Lineage food supply chain to proprietary freezing Lineage serves big name Walmart and McDonald's. Lineage Logistics focuses and part of its mission waste. And so we provide frozen 450 warehouses across 20 Let's use salmon as an Salmon will be harvested Northwest. Salmon will put into one of our salmon across the retail store and then at home. It may end up where the final consumer But we're helping to move entire cold chain and safe temperature the The supply chain international attention pandemic struck. Covid really showed how system is. That really able to transport in refrigerated food in the At the same time, it's power to keep the entire Being able to minimize whether you're using robotics, freezing technology to transport to point B, like that is Our data scientists have used in our freezers of energy and we want to every square inch of that They've created see where are we not space and how can we We have been able to additional pallet that is equivalent to a freezer. Food waste also emissions, and that's a Phononic aims to defuze. Number 17 on the list is company that is refrigerator. Through the power of we are sustainably cooling, so core to our semiconductor chip that coldness. Phononic embraces solid semiconductor devices products in the cold So Phononic really and now we're delivering disrupt an almost $50 Cold is super hot if warehouse business. Why? It's because of your by Giant. The new food driving it literally from home. Online grocery sales Feeling frozen food sales 2020. It's expensive right now frozen products because How do we get product consumer using e-commerce distribution points While that may be it makes warehouse So much so that now in retailers lose almost $13 delivery. Phononic cold chain solution, not includes actively totes, but also the IoT the consumer to know is from the minute it was they pick it up. Phononic is releasing grocery stores and And that gives the grocer mile delivery solutions flexibility, saving costs, but more order throughput to meet We're seeing the cold chain growing and companies to really be infrastructure there different layout of the technology. And while the number of leveled out in 2022, what frequency of orders and The pandemic surge in has shown staying power to online orders. I don't see that changing To be able to not only your family something hours to cook. That is a huge factor as That's driving frozen I like to call it the So when you think from a the &quot;let me do it, do it And frozen foods can of those spaces. Between the demand growth, industry innovations, the looking strong, according Food Institute. They want cold and frozen almost instantaneously. So we view ourselves as coldness, but a itself. Once consumers get used to really tough to go back.