Peace be upon you. I hope from God Almighty that you are in the best of conditions as usual. Today, God willing, we will serve you mallawi in a large quantity, without effort or kneading , and also without butter. We will prepare mallawi in a different way and with a mixture that we will discover together in the video . We will go directly to the ingredients and method of preparation: We take a large plate. (Qasria) We put 1 kilo of flour for sweets in it to get an excellent result. After that, we add half a kilo or 500 grams of flour, durum wheat flour, or very fine semolina FINOT We mix the ingredients We add the rest of the ingredients: a tablespoon of salt, a tablespoon of sugar, less than half a teaspoon of baking yeast granules, and an amount of water that we add until we get a cohesive mixture - the amount of water depends on the type of flour used - without kneading, as you can notice, we add water gradually until We get a homogeneous mixture The dough should be soft. We cover the dough with cling film for ten to 15 minutes. We cover the surface of the dough well so that a crust does not form on top. This stage saves us the need to knead the dough. After 10 minutes have passed, we stir the dough in this way and cover the dough for the second and final time with food plastic from 10 to 15 minutes. As you can see, the result is amazing, as if we kneaded the dough. A very, very wonderful result. We coat the surface of the dough with a little oil and proceed to forming the malwi. A large quantity, God willing. I shaped them into a medium size. As you can see, the dough has many bubbles, which is evidence of the success of the method In this way, you will save effort and time , even if the quantity is large. We form the dough balls with many bubbles . After forming the balls, we will coat the surface with oil so that we do not have a crust on the surface of the balls. We obtained a large amount of medium-sized and wonderful balls. We cover the balls. Using food plastic and tiger to prepare the amazing mixture without resorting to using butter, just with an easy and simple mixture to get more than wonderful mallawi. We take a bowl and put the following ingredients in it: a cup of oil and add to it a large spoonful of white flour, and it can be replaced with starch and add a cup of wheat flour. Steel FINOT We add a bag of sweet yeast or chemical yeast weighing 7 grams or the equivalent of a teaspoon. The quantity of this mixture is not sufficient. We will add another quantity with the same amounts. We mix the ingredients well with an electric mixer or with a hand mixer until the mixture is well combined and we get a good result . For the next stage , we grease the work surface so that the dough does not stick. We spread the balls well until the work surface appears as you can see. The yeast only helps us to roll it soft. After spreading the first ball, we put the mixture instead of butter, we distribute it on the face of the ball, and we fold the ball in the first fold. We save effort and without kneading the dough. And with butter, watch the method for rolling out the dough and spraying the mixture. We gather the dough in this shape and put it like this and pass to the second ball in the same way and in the same shape. We will spread it well. An easy and simple method. Here I will remove the spoon and use the hand to avoid sedimentation of the flour. Sprinkle the mixture in the manner shown in the video and repeat. The same process is a 100 out of 100 successful method . Blessed be God. Complete the process and we will meet later after I have formed them completely. As you can see, we pass to the next stage. We cook them in electric fryers or a regular frying pan after we have heated them over low heat at low levels, the second level, and we gradually pass to the third level with... Pay close attention to maintaining a medium temperature. Sprinkle a little oil. I put three of them and stir constantly until they take on a beautiful golden color until I finish cooking. The color is gold, may God bless you. I used an electric frying pan that I bought a long time ago As you can see, the result is amazing. You do not need to use a lot of oil to get a good result. We continue in this way. I put them directly on the work surface. Look at the result. They are leafy, may God bless them. It is amazing , as if it was prepared with butter. It is possible to dispense with the chemical yeast and replace it with fattened starch . May God bless it. Very nice and crunchy. We open one and look. The amazing result is a wonderful anniversary of the birth of the Prophet, may the best prayers and peace be upon him A delicious breakfast. Cheers, very hot. I hope you like today's video. I hope you share this video with your family and friends so that the benefit will spread. I await your encouragement and positive comments that make me very happy with health and comfort. Have a good day and peace be upon you.