(puzzling music) - Hi, friends. I hope you're having My name is Bailey Sarian, and this is the Dark History Podcast. Welcome. If you're a curious cat like myself, then let's go on a journey and let's learn something new, shall we? Today's story, kinda wild, but let's start with a question. What do Charles Manson, Allen Ginsberg, the Unabomber, and my Uncle Bob who lives off of the grid all have in common? They all claim that of the government's secret I didn't say it, they did, okay? Now, if you know me, if you know I love a good conspiracy theory. Like, we never went to the moon, the earth is flat, Avril Lavigne died and was Now, do I believe these No. But I enjoy a good bedtime story with like a side of paranoia. And why not? Life is short, have some fun. It's just fun to imagine that Why not? So if you're interested in then you are probably familiar with the big, old daddy Well, to make it clear, What if I told you the on thousands of unwilling in the hopes to achieve mind control? Oh, yes. Or, what if I told you that and putting microphones in them to create like little adorable spies? (meows) It's so cute, but like weird. What if I told you there was a CIA agent whose job it was to sit sippin' a martini, all in the name of national security? Would you believe me? Well, by the end of this, you will. Now, I know what you're thinking. This couldn't sound any more Like, &quot;Okay, Bailey, let But let me tell you, the CIA's documents on and the story we're telling Okay, like this actually land of the free, allegedly. Well, not even allegedly, So let's go on a journey and talk about some juicy government goss. And maybe understand how the Shall we? Let me open up my book of secrets to a blank page with nothing on it. (gasps) Right here, page one. Let's get into it, shall we? Let's do it. Let's start with a guy named Frank Olson. Now, Frank was a little smarty-pants, he was a biological warfare scientist. And then in 1953, the in hopes to work together and develop some kind of new technology Frank agrees, and the CIA tells him that they really wanna develop some, like kinda mind control technology, and Frank will be the best one to do that. I know, already I can tell I'm losing you. But they really did actual mind control technology. I'm not just saying that. At this time, the CIA was wondering, &quot;Hey, can we get control of an individual to the point where they will and then they won't remember any of it?&quot; And Frank was like, &quot;Yeah, I'm sure I could Let me get started.&quot; Now, Frank was passionate He wanted to help the CIA But as time went on, Frank was noticing something a little suspicious going on. Day after day, he would come into work and see that the CIA was, you know, maybe abusing their power. There was one instance a few interrogations that Then there was another the test subjects being tortured Frank read over his job description. He's like, &quot;Um, yeah, I about like having to kill test subjects or participating in anything inhumane.&quot; So he's feeling like a little guilty. He was really affected by So, Frank, he put his foot down and decided to say something. He's like, &quot;Hey, you guys, you guys, I don't think what you're doing.&quot; So then he gets invited and he's like, &quot;Oh my God, cool.&quot; Men's retreat, bonding with So Frank gets to the retreat, And they're like, &quot;Here, And he's like, &quot;Oh my (makes sipping sound) So he's taken a drink as you Some time goes by, and Frank notices that he's feeling a little funky, you know? The walls all of a sudden the piano in the corner he can smell the color purple. And he's like, &quot;Somethin' something ain't right.&quot; And that's when it was announced like, an announcement was made, And they're like, &quot;Hey, so your drinks were It was their turn to be the test subjects. They told 'em after they consumed it. Was it a good time at least? No, no, it wasn't. Frank was in a new setting surrounded by people he's Well, obviously, he can't because he just was given a drug against his will that he has seen being So with this mindset, it led to Frank having a very bad trip. Oh, yeah. Luckily for him, he makes it out. And once he leaves the men's retreat, he has this feeling of What has he gotten himself into? He doesn't even know anymore. How could these people turn the tables and now treat He went to a coworker about how unhappy he was in the position and that he didn't like So days go by, Frank was He couldn't sleep, he and he was having trouble spelling words. Now, these were things he could easily do before this little men's retreat. Now, was this all because question mark? It was suggested to him which Frank agrees to. And the hospital, the hospital that was recommended to him, it was out of town and they only checked patients So Frank, his doctor, and a CIA coworker who were there to like assist Frank and make sure he gets checked into the hotel the night before and then take him to the doctor's, the hospital the next day. So all there, there's the three of them. They go to the hotel. The three of them that night have dinner. And Frank told the CIA agent that he was looking forward because it was gonna read some books that he's maybe watch some TV. So the night comes to an end, Frank goes back to his hotel room, and what happens next, my friends, well, it's different So Frank never made it to because he allegedly jumped and fell to his death, which was then labeled a suicide. But here's what many You see, the night before a phone call was made from his hotel room. Now, this phone call was made and allegedly this caller Frank had died. Now, that's very unusual Unless that person making the call was a wizard or something, it just really doesn't make any sense. Another thing that was very asked for a second autopsy to be performed because he, too, was like about this suicide situation. So when the second autopsy came through, it found out that Frank or cuts associated with In fact, there were signs he had damage suggesting he had been Now, I don't know about you, but when you jump out of a window, it's gonna look like you Like, the type of damage that comes with jumping out of a window, it would be way more severe, and it wasn't just lining up with this head trauma that he had. So what does it all mean? Well, that's the big question. Because isn't it a little odd that shortly after confiding about how unhappy he was and how cruel these experiments were, he just mysteriously died? Huh? And the wounds didn't line up? Hmm? Hmm? What did Frank see that was so bad that it broke him the way it did? Did he know something Well, let's dive into these experiments and try to figure out what Frank saw. And the only way we can do so into these cruel mind control experiments that were being run and funded by the CIA. Hmm. But, first, a word from our sponsor. There are things in life that For example, how you Some people like their That's a little, you know, it's different. Anyways, mattresses, you pick those, wine, dates. Hello, dates. I don't know, we're all different, right? And we have different preferences, is really what I'm getting at. But what if you could do the same thing when it came to hiring? Yeah, like you could before they even apply for the job. Well, that's where ZipRecruiter's It gives you as the hiring manager the power to pick your ZipRecruiter's technology is so effective that four out of five employers they get a quality candidate Hey, that's pretty impressive, you know? Wow. And right now you can try it for free at ziprecruiter.com/darkhistory. So maybe you're wondering, &quot;Well, how does Invite to Apply work?&quot; When you post a job on ZipRecruiter, they send you the most Then you can easily review the candidates and invite your top choices ZipRecruiter is easy to and makes it just freakin' Right now you can try at this exclusive web address, ZipRecruiter, the smartest way to hire. A big thank you to ZipRecruiter for partnering with me on today's episode. Now let's get back to the story. Okay, so picture this. It's the late 1940s and the of Russia and Korea. Now, Americans were watching Russia, who at this time they and also they had a very big military. They also see they're successfully So America is thinking to themselves like, &quot;Shit, that should've been us. We should be making these bombs.&quot; They're feeling threatened. Like, &quot;Why aren't we We're supposed to be number one.&quot; Then there's Korea. In 1950, America and Korea go to war. Russia and Korea had similar beliefs in like how to run a country. And these beliefs did not where we should be at in the world. And since we're so competitive with them, everything they did felt For some reason, Russia really It sounds like a very personal problem. Like, what to do? Like, what, did Russia or something? I mean, that's how it feels. Lady Liberty is low key a MILF. So now American soldiers who because, remember, we're in war with them, they returned to America the bad guys really aren't that bad. They're running a pretty So the CIA is listening This isn't very American of them. You can't think or say They must have been brainwashed.&quot; Obviously, jump into wild conclusions, but that's exactly what &quot;How dare you feel bad for the bad guys? You're not supposed to have feelings.&quot; Kinda like when you're dating a new guy and he doesn't respond and you're like, &quot;Oh my God, it's over. He's probably talking like, this was all a And then you start planning your revenge, Instagram hot girl posts You know, just jump into That's exactly what the CIA was doing, and they were planning And at this moment, the CIA decided, &quot;If they're gonna do mind control, we're gonna do my control, Mm-hmm. So, mind control is a very broad concept and it can mean so many different things. And I don't think the CIA knew They just wanted to see what was possible. From their perspective, they could get America's own soldiers to be like killing machines as soon as they get captured to keep secrets safe from the enemy, or like, &quot;If we captured an to make them tell us their secrets.&quot; Or, what if they could like put some serum into and make them all turn That'd be cool. So they saw their own with nothing but nice things to say. And they were totally convinced mind control abilities and we were behind, we needed to catch up. When the CIA had stumbled upon LSD, they were sure, they were sure, they had found their mind control answer. Now, when you think of LSD, I know you're thinking watching the Grateful Dead concert. Uncle Bob calls it acid, but the scientists, they call it LSD. It's the same thing. So if you hear me call it acid, LSD, it's the same thing, okay? Anyway, the CIA was betting on LSD being the answer to And they were betting millions on it. Now, if you're unfamiliar with LSD, it's a synthetic drug that causes shit to just start meltin', okay? You start losing grip of time and space. Some people experience like and like you see crazy pictures and just all the colors that ever existed. And best of all, you can't That's great! And these effects, they can last anywhere from 8 to 10 hours. Now, there are some people negative side effects. Again, you can't overdose on LSD, but it can cause psychological damage and leave you with a which in some cases may So, pros and cons, pros and cons. LSD was invented by a who discovered it by accident. Yeah, he just like mixed and was like, &quot;Whoops, made LSD.&quot; Now, he was trying to make It was basically an early just a stimulant that counteracted a respiratory It doesn't really matter When he touched this new drug he created, it was absorbed through his skin. And he began to feel some The scientists said like an extremely stimulated imagination. Kinda like he was in a dreamlike state and he was seeing fantastic pictures and extraordinary shapes. He literally had to stop and go home. His wife was probably like, Barely touched your cheese.&quot; And he's like, &quot;Honestly, babe, babe, I'm trippin' balls, okay? I don't know who's talkin' to me. You look like a pterodactyl Like, it's kinda funny. Now this is a little bit of a side story and it's also kind of funny, so I'm gonna share it anyways. But three days after his accidental trip, the scientists, he wanted to do more. I think he was still like So then he went on to take Now, this trip though, he got really high. So his assistant's like, Let me take you home, like And he's like, &quot;Okay, but So he hopped on his bike and he like, he's riding home just high as a kite on his bike. Like freakin' Dorothy or something. Oh my God, wait a minute, is I mean, she was sucked She talked to a freakin' scarecrow. Her slippers were a time machine and a lady from a bubble The more I think about it, the more I'm certain Good for her. Good for her, live your life, girl, work. Now, we're gonna pause Wicked Clothes. Hi, today, our sponsor is Wicked Clothes. Let me tell you, wearing one I would stand up and show and my boobs are like I don't know what happened. Anyways, so Wicked Clothes, have you heard of Wicked Clothes? Well, they sell clothing kind of creepy, but like really funny, honestly. (laughs) Think like goth meets dad jokes. Like, you're gonna wanna take a minute just to browse around their site, even if you don't buy anything because their pieces are so unique, so cute. I love them. You can take a look at wickedclothes.com. They have shirts about ghost hunting, freakin' Mothman. Shout out to you, Mothman. Anything that's like Think like a little bit of but make it cute. Make it cute, yeah. One of my favorite designs that I own is a sweatshirt that says, &quot;Serial killer documentaries and chill.&quot; I would wear it right now, but I'm sweating buckets in my room. So I'm just gonna describe it to you. It's says, &quot;Serial killer I did post it on my Instagram, if you wanna go check that out and see. I'm wearing it. I don't know. But I've been purchasing for quite some time now, and their designs never disappoint. Their shirts are soft, comfortable, and I just love the quality of them. So do yourself a favor and take a minute to browse their site. That's wickedclothes.com. And if you use coupon code Dark History, you can get 10% off. If you wanna save some time, you can get that coupon by going to the link Thank you, Wicked Clothes, You guys are the best, Now let's get back to today's story. Okay, so I've gotten off track. Okay, I'm talking about and I (indistinct). So let's go back to the scientist. He accidentally made LSD, okay? He was a true believer, And he thought this was cool. He thought he can make a lot of money off of this new invention. And he started calling that could produce a model psychosis. Basically, meaning a way without actually having to be around them. They instead could create for a short period of time and then use it for their studies. Word of this new drug got who, again, they were looking for ways to control people's minds. Oh, they were interested. They were very interested. On top of that, they didn't to get their hands on this So they decide, the CIA, to like, &quot;Hey, what if we I'm not talking most of it, And that's exactly what they did. The CIA bought 100 million doses of LSD from the Swiss lab. The man behind this large Well, his name was Sidney Gottlieb. I think I said that right. You were actually introduced earlier in our story, and you didn't even know it. Remember that little men's with Frank Olson, you know, where he got his Well, it was spiked by none Oh, yes. You see, Sidney had some big plans for how LSD could be used, and he was willing to do whatever it took to get what he wanted. Sidney was born August and he would go on to spend looking for some kind of He jumped around from just looking for a sense of Now, Sid, he was deeply patriotic. He freakin' loved America, all right? He was like, &quot;Fuck yeah, America.&quot; And when World War II came around, he was first in line to Now, unfortunately for him, he had a bit of a birth defect that made his foot a little funky. So you couldn't really walk straight. And the army was like, Now, this was disappointing. Because like, what was he supposed to do? He wants to go to war, he wants He just wants to be there, so Well, he ends up going to college and he gets his PhD in chemistry in 1940. And then in 1953, Sid joined in on the fun over with the CIA, taking a position as a poison expert. Now, literally months Sid was put in charge of a (hums mysterious tune) You know, yeah, you get it. Anyways, the goal was to find the answer, again, to mind control. The whole thing was actually underneath the MKUltra umbrella. Now, Sid was excited about I mean, he couldn't go fight but he could fight for So this was like his new and he was so passionate about it. So when LSD came onto the market, Sidney jumped at that in the name of liberty, of course. Now, Sidney would be in charge LSD across the country to in hopes to find volunteers Now, there's a lot of holes in the story at this point, honestly. That's because a lot of the documents and records regarding they were destroyed later on. But what we do know is that the experiments were that were also financed by the CIA. Hmm, let's pause for an ad break. If you're carrying a credit it can freakin' feel like you're in a never-ending cycle of debt, a hamster wheel, you're stuck, you're never gonna get out, you know? But with Upstart, they can help so you can actually get ahead. Whether it's paying off credit cards, funding personal expenses, over half a million to get one fixed monthly payment. Upstart knows that you're more And they're expanding They have some really That's where I always go looking first. You know, I gotta see what Really great feedback. You can go to upstart.com and do like a five-minute and you could see your rate 1,000 to $50,000. Find out how Upstart can lower when you go to upstart.com/darkhistory. That's upstart.com/darkhistory. Don't forget to use my URL to Loan amounts will be determined based on your credit, income, and certain other information Go to upstart.com/darkhistory. A big thank you to Upstart for partnering with me on today's episode. And now we shall get back to the story. So, just a few miles away is a place called Georgetown University, filled with many students who So the CIA tried to establish a secret mind control research all low key, of course. Like, they weren't gonna but they were like So during one of these mini projects, the CIA told the test subjects that they were just trying to make a drug that would help them not get drunk, but also like give you a permanent high for the rest of your life. This was their cover. And they're like, &quot;Hey, college kids, go ahead and booze it up 'cause we wanna help you get That's how they're presenting it to them. So, of course, what college student wouldn't Hello? So, many participated in these trials without the full understanding who it was for, and why they were even The goal of these tests was to control their impulses There really wasn't like They just kinda like, again, wanted to see what would happen. And all that really did happen was that LSD became a huge Now, the project, again, it was huge and involved stuff other than LSD. I mean, yes, LSD was like but there were also things it would just make you forget stuff. And this pill could be put in anything. They also were trying another make you paralyzed in Also, substances that would where they would become or even lower their ambition and general drive of working men. I don't know, I mean, the list goes on. But they were trying many mixtures, dosages, all in The CIA was willing to if it meant they could have Another example that was a project led by a world-famous and well-respected doctor and psychiatrist named Dr. Ewen Cameron. Now, Dr. Cameron, he was very interested in It has nothing to do with quilts. But, instead, he believed to erase a person's mind and replace it with whatever For example, maybe you want when you're gonna have kids. So you can like erase And, instead, she asks you like, what you want from your Amazon wishlist, or you wanna train someone You can just erase rationality Easy, this is what science is for. Dr. Cameron already worked that suffered from things or psychological issues. So he thinks they are the perfect test dummies to give LSD to and see like, if it could break down their behavioral patterns. Kind of like in our lobotomy story, this is just like another version of a doctor trying to to mental illness. And people with mental illness But this time, instead of holes So I mean, that's a lot easier, you know? At least I think so. But now remember, his goal was to break down and the way he did this was by trying extremely experimental tactics. One of them being electroshock therapy where they literally Yeah. You're not supposed to do this more than a couple of And this doctor was doing it which is, hello, very, very dangerous. He also used something which, I know, you're probably like, that sounds so My version of a sleep room is like just laying in bed, watching and just not thinking about work. But this was not that. A sleep room was where they put patients in a drug-induced coma, but in a room with no So over the speaker, there repeating the same messages Just speaking to the attempting to reprogram new Yes, bitch, cut your bangs. You'll look amazing. Do it right now, you want bangs, yeah.&quot; Now, the goal, the goal was to eventually implanting new motivations I know, which is actually I wish they could make me like be smarter or something. But, instead, they're ruining people. Great, okay, anyways. I mean, obviously, we know now that it's but I love the optimism they had. Beautiful. I can't believe they could Trying to get millions of dollars for mind control experiments And where do you even start? So in a couple of cases, with the longest sessions 39 and 65 days. Yeah. Could you imagine being locked in a room with voices telling you No, no, I don't think any of us can. I mean, I imagine that's Maybe? I don't know. Anyways, one of Dr. Cameron's patients was a woman named Velma Orlikow. She was a patient of his after a friend suggested that she go and like receive some treatment for her postpartum depression. So she's looking to receive treatment, and she instead was turned who injected her with LSD in one of his sleep room studies. Velma in later interviews but at the time she had After she received treatment, she would say she couldn't like read or write. She also had huge blank where she literally had no for periods of time. Honestly, this kinda sounds like an alien abduction story. right? It's kinda similar, kinda. But Velma first learned from the media who reported on what took This had a lasting effect on her, and at one point she was so and overall power abuse that she was on the brink and just ending it all. Luckily, she didn't go through with it, but she did battle these thoughts up until her death in 1990. Now, Dr. Cameron would retire and the person who replaced nothing was concluded. The only takeaway they got was that 60% of Cameron's for anywhere from 6 months to 10 years. That's called blacking out from trauma. Thanks, Dr. Cameron, thanks, CIA, you really came through with some groundbreaking information. Later on when the media on like why in the hell they were running these experiments in the first place, they were like, &quot;Well, really, We're the real victims. The treatment wasn't that bad, it was actually much harder on the staff. I mean, they had to feeding everyone and wiping their ass. The staff suffered, not the patients.&quot; Eye freakin' roll! Yeah, of course. Once again another large organization not taking responsibility The AlLan Institute's project But that didn't mean Sidney from the CIA was going to give up easy. He still had lots of ideas up his sleeve to achieve the overall Now, Sidney had another idea one that he would call Midnight Climax. Now, this one's fun. I mean, it kinda sounds like Maybe it was. Let me check my phone, BRB. Where is my phone? Oh, oh, ad break, while I check if this was a porno. If you've been dreaming but you're nowhere you may need to get those creative juices flowin' in your mind. With Calm, you can listen to and give yourself a Oh, yes, I am partnering with Calm, the number one mental wellness app to give you the tools you need in hopes to improve the way you feel. Love that. Clear your head with which can help improve your focus, or drift off to dreamland with Calm's imaginative sleep stories. I like those ones because And they're just unique. And they just like, I don't even know how to describe it. It just puts you right, They really nailed it with the name, Calm, 'cause the stories are so calming. Great name. (laughs) It makes sense. Anyways, if you go to calm, you'll get a limited time 40% off a Calm premium subscription. Now, this includes hundreds and they add new content like every week. Over 100 million people to take care of their minds. You gotta take care of that noggin. Calm.com, I know, C-A-L-M.com/darkhistory for 40% off and limited access We like that. I know, it kinda sounds but I'm not saying Calm, C-A-L-M. (laughs) Anyways, that's calm.com/darkhistory. Sleep more, stress less, live better with Calm. Anyways, thank you, Calm, for working with me on today's episode. Now let's get back to the story. Not a porno. And we're back. Operation Midnight Climax, this, too, was a series of experiments funded and conducted by the CIA, organized by our guy, Sidney, again, with the goal of finding out if LSD can You get it. So they would like set up in New York and San Francisco, and Sidney couldn't do it That's when he brought in and a bigwig CIA guy and this guy was gonna Now, let me tell you, this The CAA bought a bunch they furnished them, and then they would set up a And then they would bring to help with this project. They wanted these rooms but secretly were designed and observation. So they paid the sex workers then offered them something to drink. &quot;Here, you want something to drink?&quot; And the johns, they had were laced with LSD. Hmm, now this might not make much sense, but the thought process here involuntarily reveal secrets And the victims were sometimes in hopes to essentially brainwash them into committing criminal activity, like robbery, assaults, and assassination. The reason they were doing this with sex workers and johns was because, you know, since sex work they would probably never And even if they did nobody would believe them because they would just sound crazy It was the perfect set-up, like No one. The part where this gets even more freaky is that behind the two-way mirror, there was someone watching the whole time. Yeah, the whole time. Mr. George Hunter White. He wasn't just watching this sweaty monster was on the other side of the two-way mirror observing. For science, for science. He's just over there breathing heavily, he's sippin' a martini, and he's also sittin' on so he didn't have to like He didn't wanna miss any of That's a true story, he and he was like sittin' on it and stuff, like, this guy's full-blown just creep. Again, it was all in the And, of course, if a CIA agent they're gonna have a few In other words, what I'm getting at essentially is that they took some of the LSD and they enjoyed the You know, normal pizza party stuff. Well, this study, it concluded with or without drugs. Something I'm sure I could've No serious results ever It honestly sounded just funded by the CIA, if you ask me. But no one's asking me right now. Okay, so America's tax dollars, yeah, they were not just but also to pay for a So the thing is no one came to an end, but, officially, quote, But it could still be going And nobody really knows So if your Uncle Bob starts shoving him into the back of a truck, or that like the government I guess maybe like actually believe him. MKUltra actually ended other than ruining people's Because, remember, their original goal was to master the art of mind control, to create super soldiers. And they thought LSD was So let's go back to Sidney Gottlieb. After Frank Olson's death, you know the guy from the beginning? He attended his funeral and came extremely, extremely close to admitting just how Sid went on to tell Frank's son that maybe they went a little too far and maybe they did things that, yeah, they shouldn't have done. I think that's the closest the truth at all, but he kinda admitted. You know? Sidney would continue doing the CIA's work and running MKUltra projects for years. In later years, he started this thing, oh, this one's kinda funny. It's not funny, but it's kinda funny. It's kinda funny. Because in later years, he started this thing called which I wanna start a band just so I can call it This is a real thing, I swear. But it was where they basically They performed surgery on the cat, and they sewed a microphone in hopes to spy on people. So they put the microphone in there and then they stitched he doesn't even know he's a secret spy. And they send them out there to spy. The only problem was that Yeah, literally. They put this cat in a and it just like ran away. And this is also true, it ran I know, it's sad, but honestly, that's kinda funny. That's kinda funny, come on. That's kinda funny. It's not funny, but it's kinda funny. It's something out of a movie. It's kinda funny. It's kinda funny, we can It just got to a point they were just trying honestly. I mean, who thinks of putting It's kinda creative. There was nobody to The only person who was above him was like the actual director of the CIA. So Sidney just had a So later in life, Sidney moved to India and he opened a hospital for those who are struggling with leprosy. Yeah, super random, you know? I think he just wanted to, which is nice. It was like a part of to feel like he was maybe doing Yeah. Sidney was honestly a weirdo, but he tried to do some good, great. And then he would eventually The CIA, on the other hand, they created (scoffs) their own monster. They jumped to a wild conclusion, assuming that mind control and they like needed to get behind it. And all in the name of But it backfired because in the 1960s, the hippie movement was on the rise. And one thing that kept babe, it was drugs. Drugs, you know what I'm sayin'? The only thing MKUltra was introduce LSD to a They were having a good time, they were telling their friends about it. I mean, it was just a big party. I wish I was there, honestly. So their big secret mind control mission ended up being the spark to a Whoops. The worst of these experiments for a few reasons. Number one, the CIA, they have a lot that don't have to follow So they can detain enemies, and practice like weird shit on them. It shouldn't be a surprise doesn't really come out too often. Yeah. Number two, the CIA director which would blow the roof So they panicked and all of the documents. And then number three, because the majority of the nobody really knows like the full extent as to what was going or for how long. I mean, how many people Just imagine how many and freakin' eaten by the (makes babbling sound) That's what you get (indistinct) (makes babbling sound) Well, in 1974, documents were released to the public. Whatever documents were left, mind you. Now, it's weird because you would think, you would think it would be But it wasn't. The story seemed to just and nobody was really I think it's because during this time the Nixon Watergate Mm-hmm, yeah. So maybe that was done on purpose. Maybe not. But many to this day consider MKUltra just a silly conspiracy theory, even though it's literally not. It's literally not a conspiracy theory. So when word got out to the public what was really going people, they freakin' There were several lawsuits from victims, some receiving settlements from the CIA. Like Frank Olson's family, they got a settlement from the president himself. Oh, thanks. You know, whatever. Velma's family fought hard and hold them accountable But in the end, the government from being compensated in any way, and they succeeded at that. For what? Jeez. And then eventually that it was absolutely unacceptable for the CIA to ever conduct without knowledge or consent. Which, hey, that's kinda cool, I guess. I'm rolling my eyes, if you I'm rolling my eyes because I believe that's probably not true. Mm-mm. When you look at the nobody was really punished for what took place under MKUltra. Mm-mm. After all, it's kinda hard when a ton of documents were destroyed and there's literally no You know? But throughout the years, who have come forward saying drugged at some point in the 50s. And their stories tick off But since they couldn't improve it, many were labeled as crazy or kooky. So, I mean, that sucks. I'm sure you can think of some Anyways. In conclusion, what the hell They were trying so hard but Steve Jobs came in and Mm-hmm. It's cute to think that MKUltra was just a one-and-done deal. &quot;Well, that didn't work. Oh, well.&quot; No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm sure the CIA has adjusted their approach to the situation as to how they can control But isn't that the point of all this? The government is kind of inept. In trying to control minds, they created a culture of free thought. It's sort of like when you're a kid and you think like adults They have all the answers. And then you grow up and you learn, well, once you become an adult, you're like, &quot;Oh shit, we sure do not, we sure do not have the answers.&quot; We don't know what the hell we're doing, we're just like trying to figure it out. Well, the government Just because they're big and have money, we think they're gonna But they don't. I don't know what the hell they're doing. They put microphones Robo cats? Jesus. And in the end, the CIA's ego is, it's too big to lose. So they probably walked away I mean, they got laid And that's a win if you ask me. Anyways, I would love Do you know more about this? Let's continue the conversation using the hashtag #darkhistory. And don't forget to join where you can watch these after the podcast airs and also catch my Murder Mystery &amp; Makeup which drops on Mondays. I hope you have a You make good choices, and I'll be talking to you next week. Bye. Don't get brainwashed. Dark History is an AudioBoom original. This podcast is executive produced by me, Bailey Sarian, Chelsea Durgin from Slash MGMT, and Fanny Baudry from Wheelhouse DNA. Produced by Lexxi Kiven, Derrial Christon, and Spencer Strasmore. Research provided by Ramona Kivett. Writers, Jed Bookout, Michael and me, Bailey Sarian. Historical consultant, Maia Szalavitz, author of &quot;Undoing Drugs: The and the Future of Addiction,&quot; Martin A. Lee, author of &quot;Acid Dreams,&quot; the complete social history of LSD, the CIA, the 60s, and beyond. What a great name. And, also, I'm your host, hello, hi, how's it going, princess, princess of the dark, Bailey Sarian.