Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. the heroes who count. Mike Smith holds the world record for counted to in one breath - 125. But the world record for the largest number ever counted to belongs to Jeremy Harper from Birmingham, Alabama. Harper never left his apartment. but from the moment he woke up in the at night, Harper did nothing but count. over the Internet and raised money for but after three months of counting all day, every day, he finally reached the world record - 1 million. like a lot, but think of this way. seconds is about 17 minutes, but a million seconds is more than 11 days. that's more than 31 years. the way to a million, but you can watch John Harchick count 74 hours to spare. John also has some other channels. of himself eating carrots. drinking water. literally have no views. A great way to find such videos is a website made by Jon van der Kruisen. has yet watched. as well as Mike, the one breath counter 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and so on. And it doesn't seem to be the one we're we're all familiar with, where each next step is just one added to the last. Well, that kind of counting is logarithmic, from &quot;arithmos&quot; meaning number and &quot;logos&quot; meaning ratio, proportion. are similar proportions. and three is a third of nine. Our brains perceive the world around us It's believed that almost all of our not additive. Two boomboxes playing at the same volume twice as loud as one. about twice as loud as one boombox, ten times as many, so 10. you would need a hundred. you would need a thousand. of logarithmic scales built into your brain to natural selection and survival, because often proportion matters more than absolute value. &quot;is there one lion hiding over there in the shadows or two?&quot; is a very different question than &quot;are there ninety six lions about to attack us or ninety seven?&quot; but adding one lion to one lion, doubles the threat. Adding one lion to 96, well, that's basically nothing. Logarithmic thinking and feeling may seems to speed-up as we get older. for ever. And logarithmically, that makes sense, is the smaller fraction of all the other When you turn 2 years old, the last year of your life is half your life. well, that's just a tiny part of the Logarithmic thinking isn't always helpful, especially in scenarios where proportion but we, nonetheless, act like it does. One of my favorite examples is paradox. Researchers found consistently that effort into saving 5 dollars of a 10 dollar purchase, saving 5 five dollars of a 2,000 dollar purchase. It's 5 dollars saved either way, leads us astray. Can you tell how many objects are in each of them? It's like really easy. zero, one, two, three or four objects in a photo without even needing to count. Is it some sort of sixth sense? Psychologists call it &quot;subitizing.&quot; at a glance, determine whether there are This has been part of human culture and it may be the reason so many tally through history wind up having to do something different When estimating or comparing amounts above 4, the brain uses what's known as an It's a psychological ability we have. accurate. It two amounts are at least 15 So, for example, 100 objects and 115 or a thousand and 1,150 or 1,200. If you wanna test the accuracy of your Panamath has a pretty good test. linear additive counting for granted, We aren't born with it. and use an approximate number system. can tell, without counting, that this line of 4 coins contains fewer coins than this line of 6, even if you spread the 4 coins out into a longer than this line of 6. around the age of 3.5, children lose this ability and begin saying that this line of 6 coins contains fewer coins than this long line of just 4 coins, possibly because around this age the physical world of objects, But then, when they begin to learn linear counting, they reverse back and begin again contains more coins than this line of 4, around the age of 4. physical thing science could ever hope In order to look at anything smaller, energy concentrated in such a small area whatever you were looking at. Okay, with that in mind, here's a question. is halfway in-between 1 and 9. 5 seems like the obvious answer. There are four numbers on either side of 5, right? or a member of a culture that doesn't their answer will be 3. they are exhibiting the human mind's because 3 in that sense makes sense. is three times larger than 1, Three is in the middle, proportionately. line and change the one to be the Planck length, and the nine to be the the observable universe. in the middle? The number of Planck lengths you could is equal to the number of your brain all the way across the observable universe. sold So, welcome to the middle. And as always, thanks for watching. Hello again. The YouTube channel Field Day recently Whittier, Alaska, one of the strangest places humans call home. talk to the locals, click the link in annotation here on this video. It was really fun, so give it a little lookie look.