- I'm gonna attempt to collect 30 million pounds of trash but there's a catch because and a butt ton of volunteers are gonna try and beat me to it by collecting 30 million pounds Now, I know what you're thinking. &quot;Pshh, Mark, one versus 1,000 hardly seems like a fair fight,&quot; and you'd be right, except I neglected to mention. I actually do have one other teammate who just so happens to be a floating 50-ton trash-eating robot. You gotta play to your strengths, right? (chill music) All right, dude, you ready - Dude, we've been going. Look at all these people. Go, go, go, go. He started already. So with the trash picking while MrBeast and his like a bunch of lame humans. - All the trash stuff is blowing on me. - All me and my autonomous and we didn't have to wait long. (chill music) I love the idea of Jimmy picking up trash the old fashioned way, while I just let it all come to me. We got some eggs. Looks like a Go Gurt. Oh, what do we got here? This is a Kola Real. Come on, man, this isn't even open. (samba music) So Jimmy and his crew and I can confidently say that's thanks to their premature start and not their trash collection techniques. - Jimmy. - The ocean's putting - [Mark] But by this point, my on all cylinders and was closing the gap, which makes this the exactly how it works, and to do that, let's go back in time a few days to when I first showed up here. Hey, what's up, Boyan? - Thank you. - [Mark] Nice place you got here. That is Boyan Slat. He's the reason this robot exists, and his origin story for comes from something that happened to him more than a decade ago. - I was 16 years old. I went scuba diving in Greece, and I just saw more and I just so disappointed &quot;Why can't we just clean this up?&quot; That kind of started a few things for me. - [Mark] Which is a humble way of saying it led him to founding a called the Ocean Cleanup with the audacious goal to rid the ocean of all trash and plastic. So naturally, that involves removing trash directly from the ocean itself, but if you think about it, Because to make a lasting impact, you've also got to cut the and turn the spigot off, 80% of the plastic flowing comes from just 1% of the rivers. So their idea is to put on those worst offending rivers, to fixing the problem at the source. So that's the strategy behind these. Now, to the juicy part to how these river interceptor So step one is to anchor it and then as trash floats down the river, it runs into this barrier which shepherds the trash and then once the trash is funneled in, it travels up this conveyor in one of these six floating dumpsters, and the fact that they because it means once they're full, the Interceptor can stay put while the dumpsters are where whatever can be and the rest is properly disposed of using the local waste management system. On top of that, it's got solar panels and a rainwater collection system, so it's fully off the grid, and thanks to some onboard the trash collection happens and importantly, it's Boyan's non-profit that provides the Interceptor, but it's the local that implement, operate, and maintain it. This one is in the Dominican Republic, and it's run locally who are just incredibly lovely Oh, and as a final point, sticks only one and a half which means while the trash the fish can swim back and or as Boyan puts it. - It's very good at catching plastic. It's terrible at catching fish. - Unless you're a dead fish, (laughs) Then it'll catch you. - If you're already dead - Right. - [Mark] Then you will be caught. So by this point, Jimmy and the boys had an ever-growing pile of trash. - Pile's looking pretty nice. If I was you, I'd be - [Mark] I'm a wee bit was that thanks to the steady I'd now overtaken them as the leader in the amount of trash collected, but even better was that to labor away in the hot sun, and took the opportunity to of the Dominican beaches and make friends and hang out with some of the locals and even have this amazing and while I don't speak manatee, I think she was coming to say thank you on behalf of all the ocean creatures for us doing our part to keep and after that, my curiosity So I went to check out and after a brief display of dominance, keep it up, boys, keep it up. - [Jimmy] You wanna come help us? - I'm picking up trash right now. Look at that, a cushion, a couch cushion. This is a live feed of - There's a lot of couches in the ocean. That's like eight of my shovels a second. - Back to work. I eventually helped them out even going as far as to offer to place their hard-earned trash definitely in their own pile for them so it counts towards So as the sun set over the city, I made some new friends who, kept pronouncing my name and right there behind me, you could see the robot because that's what robots do, collecting trash for me through the night so I continued to add to my The next day started out nice, but then rained hard for a few hours, which increased the trash In fact, they told me after heavy rain, all six dumpsters can get which seemed just crazy to me. So when I asked where all we took a trip up the the source of the trash Anytime we saw a canal like this meant to carry rainwater to the river, and there were a lot of them, it would be filled with trash that washes down from the and even worse, you could see sometimes how people would throw trash down to the river as an and part of me felt until we parked the boat and actually visited one and out of the gate, I saw a soccer ball and tried to showcase some of my moves, but after they put me in my place, I knew my only recourse was Oh! But as we walked around it became apparent pretty quickly the trash ends up in the river because there are no other options. You and I have the luxury of and rolling it out to the curb, and then it's magically In the developed cities this is, of course, how it also works, but in these remote poor communities, there are a lot of such as just not being which means they just don't have somewhere to put their waste. So whatever doesn't make it to the river just piles up in their own village, and in talking with the it's clear their passionate about being part of the solution, and the Dominican government is proactively working to come up with custom long-term solutions and be an example to The point is everyone involved is not intended to be the permanent fix. - Ultimately, we want to help and the sooner the better. There will come a day that we can just get rid and there's no more plastic but until that day comes, we need to stop it from - In the end, by the time I wrapped up my work at the Interceptor, we ended up making two down the river so the waste Even though I basically to make this happen, there's still like a sense of I don't know. We did it. So after getting the all there was left to do now was to meet back up with Jimmy. Wow, this is a certified How much did you get? - I got it right here. How much did you get? - It's on my paper. I'm not showing you. - Spoiler alert. It's much, much less Okay, so before we show and reveal who won, man versus machine, if you're watching this video, we need your help to to 30 million pounds, and buckle up 'cause the next two Now, for context, two years ago, the internet demanded we start Team Trees, and not only did we band together and reach our goal of planting but people are still planting, on average, 2,600 trees per day on teamtrees.org. So in order to actually of trash and plastic out we're following up Team and we've spent the last eight months working with the perfect for this goal, and even they guaranteed us that for there will be one less pound of plastic and trash in the - [Jimmy] That literally means this much trash comes out of the ocean, and for $5 this much trash - And we're gonna pull this off by not just tackling trash in the ocean, but cutting off the trash sources at the rivers and beaches, too. So half the money we raise the Ocean Cleanup, so they of these trash eating robots. Then they'll place them that are the worst offenders by far, and then the other half of the money will go to Ocean Conservancy, and they'll focus on the beaches with tons of volunteer beach cleanups, and then, of course, and cleaning up a bunch and so we need your help 'cause 30 million less really means we're trying by the end of the year in just two months. - Which is insanity, and the entire YouTube community, to help us hit our goal - Go team Seas. - We're saving the oceans in two ways. - I don't know if you - I'm excited for Team Seas - Oceans, good. Team Seas, good. Plastics, bad. - I personally will be kicking things off by removing 100,000 pounds from the ocean by donating a $100,000, and YouTube originals have stepped up, and they'll be matching but that's still way way If you're working adults, you're willing to remove and if you're a kid, talk Get creative and do some or maybe talk to your teacher and set up a class or using the team feature on the website. - And then after that, retweet anything to do with Team Seas. Like, share, watch 100 Support this campaign. We need you. - You can start by sharing this video, and then just harass all Make sure they're on board Team Seas. With all the division in the world, this just feels like something Like everyone agrees don't belong in our beautiful oceans, and, of course, we know Team Seas alone won't solve this issue, but that young people are beyond just retweets to raise awareness. We can be a catalyst for I am just so stoked. We totally got this. (seagulls squawking) How many pounds of trash is right here? - 500,000. How many pounds of trash is really here? - 62,738 pounds of trash is right here. - Wow. What about you? Oh, 37,000? Yo, we beat 'im. - I will say my robot and he'll do that. So if you want to fund more robots and more humans to solve click the blue button. Go to teamseas.org. Donate right now. - Go donate. (transition bangs)