A big debut expected tomorrow for I believe we share the conviction that We still like all businesses Goldman Sachs. One of the top investment banks in making money, envied It's the biggest of the old dollars in total assets. The allure of working at Goldman be one of the Much admired. Much hated. And you know, the best risk to be like Goldman Sachs or it hasn't been able to climb It's a bank that emerged unscathed. Financially, but its reputation And you want people to trust you? From the cream of the Now the company is Goldman Sachs is going For a 150 years, GOLDMAN served world. Heads of state. Heads of corporations. Millionaires, billionaires. And now, they're also So how did the bank get Goldman Sachs was founded in 1869 He started as a peddler in Philadelphia machine to become a tailor. After about 20 years, Goldman moved to shop as a banker. He would buy notes payable from sell them for a In 1882, he brought his son-in-law, the firm was eventually re-named Once upon a time, firms all sort of looked a lot alike. They're all small private partnerships on the door. There was really Mr. Goldman. There was really Mr. Sachs. There were three Lehman brothers. Goldman's son, Henry, joined He went on to re-shape After Goldman Sachs became a member Exchange in 1896, Henry Goldman began A lot of the Jewish firms like certain kinds of businesses they weren't underwriting of railroads or banks which at the beginning of They were allowed to That's where Henry Goldman pounced. Retail firms wanted capital to expand industrial companies like He developed a revolutionary idea: earnings. Its ability to generate income company. This became key to the cigar. And it would become a model of Sears Roebuck later that year. He was responsible for the initial our country's most successful And it was the next year in leader of the company joined Goldman He would later be named Mr. Wall Street. Through the next half century Goldman prominent role in banking. It helped companies like B.F. Goodrich and F.W. Woolworth expand by going public. For Goldman Sachs, it was Sidney Weinberg spent years after World II and helping him restructure the grandfather. Their big breakthrough came in the underwrite the IPO of Given that Henry Ford was considered change on Wall Street. And I think after that sort They were the first firm to house guy named Gus Levy with an infamous Sidney Weinberg. They had a return on equity of just gargantuan numbers. Welcome. Disney Land is Your Land. In 1957, Goldman Sachs led the IPO the company opened its theme When I started out there, Goldman Sachs was probably in the fifth or sixth place in terms of being the leading firm. It wasn't until I'd say the late-70s and early-80s when investment banking, the deals it did and so on, began to get the reputation for being the gold standard of the investment banking business. I think a commitment to excellence sloppiness and a lot and that started this whole the Goldman culture was To some degree it was although trading era got going. When Gus Levy who ran the trading senior partner in 1969, Goldman Sachs When you're a private partnership, they're making bets with their own them sort of mitigate extreme risk taking prudent overall because if the firm partners whose names are on the door their money is going to be lost. But as investment banks started going started to change. All of a sudden you have to go culture on Wall Street beginning from 1970 50 years of this Fifty years of people getting risks with other people's money. The traders were street smart, the back and let's go to the trading that came to them from a bunch But it was a investment banking troupes who thoughts intellectuals. In 1981, Goldman Sachs acquired Aaron and company. It marked a strategic shift in the leaders like Lloyd Blankfein and Gary ranks. A lot of the leadership investment banking sector to the The 1980s saw the rise of private dominated culture and Goldman watched rake in big dollars Bear Stearns in 1985. Morgan Stanley in 86 and Goldman made some massive deals Center in 1995 but the I joined in the summer of 95. And I say I was very fortunate this only the fifth person ever that a partnership so I felt a little coming into this remarkable partnership and it would be like. I'll never forget the second day I Corzine who was of course the CEO lira. And I was shocked. And I gave him an answer and he I thought wow, this is Actually within three months of me what became pretty well known all the partners about whether they the decision was no. For a long time it was felt be better off private. You know over time frankly people who they would never say it quite this They realized if they can go public stood to make a ton of I mean there was really no reason public. Because it got so big anyhow the same philosophy as the original spirit to be not as true as So I'm like well you know why A big debut expected tomorrow for offering, The IPO is 10 times... It was one of the biggest IPO's in raised three point It made the Top partners at the firm probably dollars, even less senior partners made dollars. So it was a It was a bonanza. It was a smashing success. Thinking about it nearly 20 years some of the more genuine strength them to be. Because at the end of the day it risk. Of course while all this was extended beyond Wall Street After senior partners raked in all what's next. A lot of them were still young. They now claim you know In truth, what did they wanted to do Wall Street, now they And if you want to have power So that led to people like going to work for Ronald Reagan. Bob Rubin becoming first the Clinton. Steve Friedman who is Goldman also became a Rubin of course Steve Mnuchin, current treasury secretary Former Goldman partner Gary Cohn of course the culture, part of the DNA. These men have had significant influence last 25 years. Rubin was part of Bill Clinton's sector in the 1990s. Gary Cohn was one of the cuts. And of course Henry Paulson the financial crisis of 2008, proposing bailout. But we'll get And some people say well you rotating door. No they just have a lot of smart up in positions of power. So what does that mean that cachet. It means they are one to two important people in the world. Heads of state. Head of corporations. Governments Sachs in my in my book When people push back and say I'd say is there any other Wall government than Goldman Sachs? And the answer is No. Business boomed after the IPO, the three billion dollars a year By 2007 that profit number It's a tale of two decades In the first decade, they crushed Earnings growth. Book value growth. Returns. Stock price But to a degree they were The company divided its revenue banking providing services to companies things like issue bonds merge Asset Management advising clients And we're talking about very very 10 million dollars in the bank. And finally, trading and investments: the in the market. In 2007, it was that sector, those billion dollars for the company, 75 profits. Goldman was the darling As somebody who wrote a book about money from investment banking. I understand how they make money ways it's still a big mystery how did. Welcome to Today, on a Friday Meredith Vieira And if you thought the markets couldn't for a rude awakening. This was the wildest single day We are faced with the prospect of Goldman Sachs figured out before other They began to figure out in December proprietary bet against Now that's my words. They say they were By the time the summer of 2007 fund had collapsed, Goldman Four billion dollars in profit. Goldman has always prided itself on Wall Street. And I think the The week after longtime competitor Goldman got a five billion dollar Warren Buffett. I have no idea what the stock market's months from now. I do know that the American economy very well and people will want a When you had other I mean remember you had Lehman You have a bunch Goldman Sachs was strong and they were the financial crisis, they And so you're like Goldman Sachs You know to their credit Goldman Sachs making more than 30 billion dollars that you know Wall Street They really put the And I think created a lot of public opinion as a result of that. Of course it didn't help that Treasury secretary at this point was dollars in taxpayer money to This Troubled Asset Relief Program has immediate implementation and be sufficiently impact and restore It also didn't help that CEO an interview with The Times of London doing God's work. It's because that so many of the is jarring to most Americans. This notion of selling a against is hard for The crux of the critique Goldman Sachs was structuring mortgage investment banking unit and But at the same time, the trading against those deals. Look what your sales team Boy that Timberwolf was one. There was a spotlight that shined didn't know who Goldman Sachs was that as well as they should have. They didn't explain to Goldman Sachs management testified to little stilted and defensive. Do you think you have an obligation selling that security to in that deal position in that deal? That's my question. That we're not going to Well no. That you intend to keep Not forever. It's your intention to No I don't think we I don't even know that It was great political theater. People needed a scapegoat and Goldman scapegoat. Goldman Sachs ended up paying more settlements surrounding its handling of the run up to the financial crisis. That's according to KBW However, in true Goldman fashion the make money even on what Here's how they did it: as part of Justice, Goldman agreed to provide in consumer relief. But Goldman Sachs doesn't have a simply let delinquent borrowers Instead, the company bought pools Mae and restructured them. They got to count that towards potentially make money It's hard to think of anything turning a penalty into a into this longstanding narrative about these guys are the smartest Now the flip side of that is sharks. When we asked Goldman Sachs about the Independent Monitor's report As of February 2019, the monitor billion dollars in relief. Seventy one percent of the Goldman Sachs wouldn't comment on whether strategy. And the financial crisis is Goldman in the last decade. In 2012 and 2013 the Bank arranged fund a state investment It raised six point five investment but according to U.S. authorities it was just a front. They accused a Malaysian financier of and paying hundreds of millions Today's case is the largest single department's Kleptocracy Asset When you talk to people on dollars in three bond deals This is an insane amount of money supposedly fairly plain vanilla. At the very highest levels of the what 1MBD was perhaps something they should have dug a little harder out. The investigation into the firm's culpability 2019. Goldman Sachs told CNBC &quot;senior criminal activity by Mr. Leissner and his associate who their part in the illegal scheme. Despite the legal issues Goldman's its competitors on Wall Street but So Goldman Sachs has gone Look at the first decade They were number one in trading and trading. The lead has narrowed somewhat and the lowest that it's been since they've non crisis period. All of this has prompted one of Street history. But if you think about the environment has changed who we are, it direct relationships In 2016, the company launched Remember him. It's a digital bank that provides savings accounts. What is it that Goldman is offering can't get elsewhere? It's that slightly The pitch is we are you know we are a We're not gonna nickel and We're going to be very transparent. We're going to be very clear to And this is sort of a new To be clear, this is still a but the trend of investment banks commercial banks is real. In a post financial crisis Goldman said it had 46 billion across the U.S. and the U.K.. That's pocket change compared to competitors JP Morgan with more than a But it's seen as See, none of this is going we are, how we're making money in the build very successful platforms that over contribution. Goldman Sachs is going from Wall Street they're doing this they're doing this Today, we're introducing a brand new There was an opportunity that I think certain aspects of the credit card. They're doing this with Three fourths are They're doing this with a more this with a CEO who Look, the jury is out on A lot of us are watching. If history is any guide Goldman Sachs