It's a very small Between Colombia and Venezuela, on one of the most difficult borders Cuestecitas, 4000 inhabitants. The kingdom of the can, Gasoline cans sold Gasoline is contraband. An excellent fuel from the border at a price a penny per litre. It is sold A boon for the cartels. Here, the police let but wage war on traffickers, like Jose Luis. It's with that he is going to look for They are the strongest the best body It's an excellent It's a double pull, There, it is well reinforced to avoid Normally we can With modified suspensions, of fuels. It's a great machine. She will never leave you Jose Luis goes to look for We'll take a lead between Colombia and Venezuela. Here, we go for it because it's They hunt us. Our trucks don't have They know we are It's illegal. It is our livelihood. It's like that Hopefully Jose Luis Except that that day, nothing In the north of the border between 2200 kilometers of tracks. A dangerous, uncontrollable region. A zone of lawlessness armed groups, traffickers. We're going to plant you! The cameras are All this traffic Venezuela is a country in crisis. Look like my shoes, my shorts. In Venezuela, prices Flour, bread, everything increases. In two years, prices have been The reason ? The collapse The entire economy of the country Every day thousands of what they no longer find at home. We need food. There are If the store shelves the gasoline, it, does not miss. Venezuela has the largest Since the crisis, a third of its fuel is There is a lot of Without this traffic, At the other end of the border, the most sought after commodity In the middle of the Colombian desert, lives one of the first people The Wayuu did not see For a little water, for hours. On this arid land, Their herds were decimated. So they too, to survive, It is not without danger. In the north of Colombia, with Venezuela to recover The problem, To avoid it, This path is much safer. traffickers Him on the side, it's a chouf. It's his job. He looks after He warns us if there are police. That way we don't get caught. He travels Yes, he works for the cartel. His role, He has no other job Jose Luis risks and confiscation of We can't stop. Over here there is of the army and the police. They can confiscate the truck. One of the lookouts Weird. A few kilometers further, The news is not good. Jose Luis turns around. The police control They are not There is a police operation. They smash This man and this woman are part of a family They don't understand why According to them, it's just survival. The police broke They broke everything. They broke his windows. They stole everything It is not normal ! The police go too far. This is where we work every day, here that we sacrifice ourselves We are not thieves They have been there since morning. Police and military The Takira River On that side, Colombia, There it is the Palomino trail. a few more hours ago, a pebble bank Dozens of trucks They are in which allow us to They annoy poor people. Are they destroying your passage? Our presence disturbs. We are asked Can we have No, no interview! Turn off your camera! The police and the army have good gasoline still passes, because traffickers take Every day they take a few kilometers away, the entrance to a rice field, Carlos and his cousin do not want Venezuela is not far away. It's those mountains, just in front. We're going to the border. We must act quickly. Hurry up ! Carlos warns his We are coming, we are coming. When they are going to arrive, you have to Stay there to film. Carlos asks us He didn't warn Moreover, he has just learned that With gestures, he explains to us Arrived near the meeting point, Carlos says to himself taking us with him. They'll come up there but i don't know you Hide yourself there, He fears the reaction We hide in the thickets. The wait is not long. Twenty minutes later, silhouettes Five, then 10, then 20, then 30. They are tired. They took huge risks Carlos organizes the distribution. Everything is going well until the arrival He is aggressive. He doesn't believe The traffickers surround us. They prevent us from leaving. After two hours of discussion, we arrive They understood that that we were not Forget the death threats. The column of ants Each of them carries Within a few moments, one and a half tons of gasoline clandestinely. Another field to cross. The young people are now out Some wearers don't even have They carried gasoline We transfer. We lend the cans and them, they bring them back filled with gasoline. Is it like this every day? Yes, almost every day. Did you have another job before? I have always been a peasant, but i do more Holders a fortune in Venezuela. It's for the food than to eat. With us, the economy Look how I'm dressed, everything is broken, In Venezuela, Flour, bread, everything increases. Before the crisis all these young people had a future. We all have the baccalaureate. but there are no more universities Today they are and it is not without risk. Have you ever been shot? The soldiers are hiding. bam, they're shooting at us. You have to run away. We lose How many times has this happened to you? Not everyone does No, you have to have it otherwise, you end up dead or in prison. If the crisis in Venezuela She also created She supports hundreds We leave the area, direction the big city of Cucuta. Cucuta is a border town The border was It has just reopened. From 5 a.m. the bridge sees pass The two countries In Venezuela, you pay in bolivars, On deck, everywhere, wads of cash in hand. They are money changers. My job is to change money. Venezuelans come to buy food. So they need In Venezuela, there is no longer So for us, There is something for everyone. The water seller, the apple seller, For all business, Since the Venezuelans One of the products these are the tires. In Venezuela, a single tire. Here, with 90,000 pesos, I have two. That's about 36 euros. Venezuelans buy in Colombia all they do that is to say the essential. Baby diapers. I have toilet paper because there you can't find any. I also have sugar and flour. why you buy In Venezuela, there is nothing left. It's true, nothing. Sincerely, There is a situation To limit smuggling, Venezuelans are banned Everything must be transported It's the law and it does well They are a hundred I carry your luggage my little lady? Olga chases the customer Come on sweetie! It is cheap. They left. I must go quickly. People are in a hurry to get home In these suitcases, It's food, Get out of here or I'll run over you! There will be confusion. Sometimes I argue It happens. There is too much competition. race price, 4,000 pesos, less than 2 euros. Me, I stop here, Next is Venezuela. Some don't even have Venezuelans are suffering a lot. It's really a hassle for them. They have to wear everything A real sacrifice, poor people! A penance! The misfortune of Venezuelans makes Colombians happy. Either way, everyone here enjoys even the police. on the border, this passage has always been Andres, 25 years old, don't know which side Here he has a nickname. We call him Loro, the parrot, Loro is a trafficker I've been working since I was 14, I worked and around 16, Loro's specialty, Every day with his accomplices, But that day, there is a problem. On the shore, opposite, they come those of the Venezuelan military. Loro goes to the news. He calls his accomplice The little band of Among the soldiers, there is one A grade. The man on the left There's a lieutenant there. Usually smugglers The presence of an officer, complicates everything. When the officers are there, Do you bakchiz the soldiers? I usually spend On the other side, Loro's accomplice The soldiers left. Loro can fetch other smugglers With loads like this room The least we can say, it's only here These are coins who come from Venezuela. These coins but they have The man resells them to a foundry. With this, we make jewelry, On the banks of the Takira, we really find everything. It doesn't seem like anything, but chicken trafficking is an activity even if she is not I will sell them. This man carries It pays him a small fortune in Colombia. It's less risky because even if the police They don't take us its traffic, Come on my hen! supports no less than 12 people. It hasn't been two hours the parrot is already back He can't take it anymore. It weighs at least 70 kilos. He paid 4 euros for each bottle. I do this to eat. This is how I earn my living. The soldiers were there We succeeded and for that, Eight euros of bakchich, it's almost half It is enormous, In the past, He can't afford that anymore. His wife has just given birth. Yes, it's because of the baby. She worries because she's scared that she finds herself alone. This life is hard but it's like that. I can only do that With it, we buy milk for the baby, little jars and everything else. I can also pay my assistant. His assistant serves him There he is fed up. Almost all the inhabitants smuggle. In the region, work is rare and rampant unemployment. Almost all Loro will have something Return to Cuestecitas. The city of cartels We find Jose. Remember, He had to go to Venezuela a police raid While waiting for the lifting of the dams, It looks like a garage, dozens are parked When he's not driving Jose earns some money Over his head, a small fortune. There are 3000, 3200 liters of gasoline. It's worth 1200 euros, It is really given. All drivers are stationary. Everyone kills time as best they can. We play, it clears our heads. We no longer think Here we don't have At the border, either either you work at The mine of which speak It's the biggest In the region, men The others have no other trains that export They cross All the way to the north of Colombia, land of dust. one of the poorest in Colombia. Olmeda is a Wayuu. Every Sunday afternoon, a car of his to take him to his village. I return to my community I have to take care of my students. In this region there are many The area where we are going, this is where there is the most misery. In the peninsula of La Guajira, one in three children Since the beginning of the year, They are over 60 To survive, some erect They stay there all the time They are there, in full sun. They wait what we want to give them. This little old man It is an ancestral custom. We are next to his house and otherwise we have to pay Most of these people In three hours of travel, the car passes Everyone gives what they want. A little note, a water bottle, even a bit At the end of the track, This is where Olmeda's family lives. In this desolate landscape, than gasoline, Water here is gold. It's impossible to find water. Among the Wayuu, water, i.e. a chore As the sun goes down of the hamlet begin a long The way to it was A long time ago Incredible thing, these children have never seen the rain. It has been five years since she fell. We walk for an hour and a half they don't go fast. The temperature is very high. After an hour and a half the reward. It's the only well It works all year round. The inhabitants surrounded It should not be The Wayuu take Yet the water is salty, barely drinkable, but she is so precious. Nearly 100 families are by the sweat of these women. women work Me, I work 5 hours Do you look sad? We suffer a lot because of the water. If we had water But what can we do about it? We were born here, we live here. We have our parents there, They lived here and Where could we go? We have no other land elsewhere. Me, I was born here We must now begin the return, Where is your husband? Often, to bring the rain, the Wayuu meet traditional dance Tata, one of the youngest women and she worries about their future. I dream of a life I wish they could study. Like all children Tata's daughter walks to school. In this desert, who are lucky enough to study. In the Guajira, no road, Some children do Their schoolbags and their uniforms were offered The children live far away. They arrive between 7 a.m. Like every day, when the children At home, they have nothing to eat. It's the only meal It is rather brief, cassava flour, maize and I hope it will rain, That day, once again, but the rain did not fall. Even the sky refuses to pour If heaven can do nothing for them, only one thing smuggling. They, too, got into it. This motorcycle ballet they are the traffickers who return They go back and forth At their head, William. I have complicated days. It's illegal what I'm doing. Colombian law I'm afraid of jail. Before, like all the Wayuu, William worked the land It's been two years since Before, I was a shepherd. I inherited the herd Today the goats are gone, William is getting ready in Venezuela. First, we attach well It's 120 liters, then, we add a third can I can't put She is not in very good condition. It's always dangerous With the sand, we can fall All the men in the family At five motorcycles, they manage to transport each If the police arrest them, they will seize But the Wayuu have an advantage. They know the terrain by heart, cacti. A real maze. The last kilometers because here, the convoy has no choice. with its patrols You are afraid that If we get caught, Every year, smuggled into Colombia Behind these palisades, the boss's house We are prohibited from entering. Uribia, 120,000 inhabitants, The only town where William reinvests There, I have about 100 euros, This money, I will reinvest it. I will double my profit that I will resell in Venezuela. Gasoline versus food. Like all the Wayuu, for nothing in the world. It is the land of his ancestors. He would rather die