[Intro music by Duo Ultreya &amp; Pandora2] At the heart of the historic centre of Bruges It is a public But it is also an official Flemish Heritage holding a vast collection of medieval books, the Amongst its most treasured historic books, books of hours. These small books stand out both because of The texts are often illuminated with bright Expensive materials such as gold leaf, ultramarine [Instrumental music by Duo Ultreya &amp; Pandora2] These 21 books of hours were made in Bruges, They contain A large part of this collection was bestowed collectors : West-Flemish nobleman Thomas Schietere de Loppem and Hainaut based bibliophile [Instrumental music by Duo Ultreya &amp; Pandora2] The luxurious books of hours were extremely with well-to-do medieval men and women. They ordered books tailored to their specific scribes, miniaturists, and bookbinders. In the late middle ages, international trade By the end with Paris, one of the most important cities hours in western Europe. On account of the high production costs, books Consequently wealthy burgers, aristocrats, with their book. There was a strong interaction between the of Flemish Primitive Jan van Eyck for instance Due to the religious content of books of hours, piety and devotion. [Instrumental music by Duo Ultreya &amp; Pandora2] But what is the content of books of hours? What is their purpose? [Instrumental music by Duo Ultreya &amp; Pandora2] Books of hours are prayerbooks for lay people. They originate from the breviary, the As is still the case nowadays, medieval priests, practised religion to the rhythm of the clock. In addition to the Holy Mass, each day had These were the eight canonical hours. The day started at midnight with matins or lauds followed at three in the morning; at six, prime; at nine, terce; at noon, sext; at three in the afternoon, nones; at six or around dusk, vespers; and at around nine or before On these set moments the and parts of the Bible. The content of the texts on the time of the year, and on the liturgical In the breviary, texts and songs were arranged canonical hours. The breviary was a very complicated book which understanding of liturgy. For this reason it was unsuited for lay people. [Gregorian chant &quot;Veni Creator Spiritus&quot; by Scola Gregoriana Brugensis] For their use, a simpler version of the breviary This was It contained less variation, shorter texts, comprehensible and appealing psalms and prayers. Most books of hours were more lavishly decorated sober and cheaper versions on the market for Books of hours allowed readers to pray at They could use their book at sitting in front of a painting of a saint reading out loud or in silence, [Woman reads litany out loud] Most books of hours start off with a calendar By means of this or to what saint to pray to that day. On the 14th of Valentine in these calendars. A group of saints appear in every calendar, wishes of the commissioner of the book and to the context. Books of hours made for use in Bruges, the local patron saint Donatian in the month Consequently, a study of the saints who the prayers can offer information about the The calendar is usually followed by a selection The most popular cycle was almost every book of hours. The cycle contains which are particularly suited for the veneration They are spread out over the eight canonical That way, the reader course of one day. The first hour, or matins, of the Virgin cycle shows the Annunciation. This is the moment when the angel Gabriel she would conceive and become the mother of Usually, each of the following hours is accompanied in the life of Mary. Miniatures in books of hours serve different They obviously embellish the texts in the book. Besides this, they also serve By looking at the depicted scenes, the reader, - even the less litterate ones -, becomes emotionally involved in the and the other biblical figures. This emotional involvement puts the reader needed for sincere devotion. The hours of the Virgin are at the heart of They are generally on other biblical themes. Each cycle of hours has its The hours of the Passion, for instance, are suffering of Christ, such as the crowning Other cycles of hours include the hours the hours of the Holy Cross, and the hours of the Eternal Wisdom. [Gregorian chant &quot;Introitus: Requiem aeternam&quot; by Scola Gregoriana Brugensis] An extremely popular cycle which can be found the Office of The Office of the dead was recited when someone The prayers start at midnight on the eve of Since this cycle does not contain an office or a vigil rather than a cycle of [Woman reads Office of the dead out loud] The Office of the dead was recited not only It was also said throughout of concern for one's afterlife. Hence the Office of of burial rituals, but also of Death as a Daily confrontation with these sinister texts persuade and motivate the reader to live a On top of that, to shorten the time they might have to spend Apprehension over death and the afterlife penitential psalms. The seven penitential psalms were read in and to atone for former sinning. The penitential psalms were often illuminated the Last Judgment, showing Christ enthroned judging souls who are rising from the Alternatively, the penitential psalms showed forgiveness for his sins. In the Middle Ages, David was considered to The penitential psalms were mostly followed help After this, Mary, the angels, the apostles, by one to intervene with God on behalf of [Instrumental music by Duo Ultreya &amp; Pandora2] Besides the cycles of hours, the penitential also Some of these prayers were read in order to indulgence. Others protected the reader from disasters or from ailments and predicaments, such as toothaches Some books of hours contain short excerpts from the Gospel according to John about the [Instrumental music by Duo Ultreya &amp; Pandora2] Books of hours were sometimes customised with depictions of the commissioners. The design of this border in a late-medieval refers to the coat of arms of the Precious books of hours were handed down from Some owners in these manuscripts. On the endleaf of manuscript 329, for dates of his or her children's births, and of marriages and of deaths within the family. [Instrumental music by Duo Ultreya &amp; Pandora2] Books of hours are important witnesses to late They were treasured as conveyors of prestige, and as allies in the daily pursuit of salvation [Music outro by Duo Ultreya &amp; Pandora2]