jazz [Peter] Good morning guys, Just kidding, right outside the center of the city. Beautiful Lake Michigan. Well I knew on maps that existed but I didn't expect Beaches all the way up the coast. Yesterday it was sunny, [Peter] You find something there? -[man] Dime. -You getting rich out here, huh? -Quarter right now. -That's it. -So you're a professional? You said it. I've been doing this 18 years. -Is this your job? -No, no, I'm retired. -I retired from the CPA. -You worked public transport? -Yeah, I used to work there. I retired 10 years ago. You got problems when You got problem with a car, Those taxi drivers, boom, boom, boom. -How was your driving, Ray? -If I tell you the truth I went to sleep. And... I went to sleep the first time, -When you were driving the bus? Second time, boom. -You fell asleep twice driving the bus? [beeping] [Ray] Hey, it's a quarter. [Peter] Quarter? Oh. So it tells you the size. -Watch. I hope it's a quarter. -You were right, quarter. [Ray laughs] A quarter, see? 25 cents. -All right Ray, all the best. -Take it easy. [Peter] So first impressions Downtown, Gotta say these streets look quite nice Haven't seen any of it yet. Really impressive. It's a good mix, the lake, Feels quite safe down here I would say. So I think that's the story with Chicago, Has a terrible reputation, [train passes] You're saying I should go to Englewood? -Yeah, Englewood... Englewood... I'm not a South Side, I'm a West Side. Everybody's outside out west. Everybody's outside, Everybody don't go outside like that. -So not good to walk around the streets? -I mean it's good to walk around but you just gotta That's it, gotta mind your business. -You love Chicago? -Chicago's where it's at. -'Cause this is my city, this is my hood. -What should we know -Come visit, Don't hear everything and how people portray us to be 'cause we way better -Yeah, in my short time here I was -It's gets a little dirty out west. -It changes out there? jazz All right, I think We're just gonna Here we go, Nice. Wow, look at this. What is that, an old school? [fire truck siren] So of the 737 homicides most took place in the South Side. Interesting so far, it went from changed quite quickly. Now we're in an area and then you can see some old stuff. Beautiful old buildings like that there. It's a real mix Whenever going to a place that's, well... You know, has a bad reputation you gotta be, you know, about where you stop and who you talk to. It's about feeling it out. If you want to stay completely safe you don't leave and if you wanna and be tested, and learn things, then let's just say Most people aren't but this stuff is fascinating to me. I want to talk to some people today, understand the city and by doing so That's always the goal of these videos. You can see at once it was I mean the roads are terrible, That's so sweet. He came up and asked her [fireman] We're collecting -We do it every year for three days. -You'll see us on different corners -Oh, he's got you. [fireman] Say hi, you're on TV. -You wanted Yeah, South Side or West Side. -You didn't want to go Downtown, I was bored out of my mind. -So here you're never bored? We don't sleep. -Do they take to you guys pretty well? -Yeah, it's all about the attitude. You walk in and you want or you talk down to them, You walk into a house and they know you're there to help, but they're gonna respect you Because you're there to take care I can count on one hand that I was on an ambulance before Most of those people and they don't know what they're doing. -What's the drug situation like now? -Uh, there's heroin I would say it's worse on the West Side. The heroin seems to be, but we have it here too. We have our regulars that we go to When you go out west you'll see people or nodded out. -Oh, really? -For a lot of us, we have to that come from Not only do they deal with it Like I live on the southwest side and you still have guys are from that neighborhood, they're gonna take care of That goes for everywhere. We spend a third of our life There's an adage, &quot;Leave the job We definitely try to live up to that. -You love Chicago? Not going anywhere. -What do people not understand -How good our pizza is -[Peter laughs] -It's definitely someone once told me it looks nice and it's calm, how hard his feet I think that's what Chicago is right now. From the outside looking in, then you get here and start to is we're struggling. -You're struggling? -Infrastructure's crumbling, but drive around, for the most part, the infrastructure's I don't know if jobs are down more than I've seen. -You feel it more? Just look at statistics, and all these violent crimes All together I've got and even if we keep track the report comes out at the end of People have nowhere else to turn to. Even just as simple as getting out of something like that, they can't walk, -Really? -We're seeing more of that nobody else is out there to do it. -Ambulance services aren't? -As far as I know, privates don't do it. There's been times we get called to go on a private ambulance. -Keep it up.. Be safe. -Cool guys, and it's awesome But wow, that looks like tough work. Dealing with a lot of ODs and people with medical issues. I don't know if they sign up for that If that's what they're thinking Here we have a police station. This video is sponsored by Thorum. When I got married I didn't know with something that didn't look great There's a better way with Thorum. Thorum rings They have an excellent selection Meteorite, whiskey barrel, ironwood, titanium, tungsten carbide, I personally wear the WWII ring This band is inlayed with timber Which makes it comfortable and unique. Founded in 2012 by co-owners they're a small husband and wife with a love for their craft. A Thorum purchase and they ship within Quality is superior and they back They come in this Thorum is now making Whether you need or just a good looking ring, head to www.Thorum.com and use code Again, that's 20% off Now back to the video. [Peter] So what's going on in the park? -They got the people that were you know, the immigrants. -Yep. -Ones that come here for status. They're staying in the police station. -In the police station? Okay, we're in the police station, so you can see Out on the floor What's up, buddy. [Peter] Bulls fan. And everyone is just sort of set up there 'cause they're gonna sleep. and I couldn't get the woman but she said they come in, but it's a continuous cycle and staying. I think they're in a bit of a &quot;don't know what's going on&quot; mode. The authorities here in Chicago because it just seems like to the hallways of the police department. [Peter] How you doing, sir? &quot;What does he say?&quot; Oh, he said: One month and a half? [Peter] Where do you go after here? &quot;We don't know, friend.&quot; -Venezuela. -Caracas? -Maracaibo? Maracucho? [all laughing] &quot;A lot of kidnapping, &quot;Would you do it again? He said, &quot;Can you give us something -Okay, no problem. I said, &quot;Do they feed you here?&quot; &quot;Yes, but not all the time Okay, comprendo. Do they give you work permission? I'm sorry for the situation, did you think &quot;...that they will give us -Oh. Okay, you're not eligible. You just gave him the Jordans? [man] He needed some shoes, right? [Peter] That's amazing. Someone gave you four pair of shoes? -Four pair of shoes My toe's been amputated, I've been here a long time Need a place to live. -You're looking for a place? They're not offering that? I sleep outside every day, [police siren] -I think they sleep in there. -Okay, so they sleep in the police station -Yes, I have to. -How do you feel about that? -Man, I... it don't make no sense. I understand they traveled overseas, I understand that. I understand they got children. 'Cause women with children -They don't. -You know, but being a man, we can... deal with the elements. -Yeah. -And the a**holes on the streets, That's why I be crying some time. -It's a messed up situation. -I can't get a dollar, fifty cent. -My friend. -So we gonna be all right. Other than that, man... -He really thanks you. He's thanking you a lot. -I don't know what he said, -He said &quot;Thank you.&quot; -All right, gracias. Whatever I can do to help, bro. [mumbles] help an old man like me. -No, you're not taking my hat, bro. I have no hair. I have no hair, bro. I need my hat, bro. &quot;Okay, so yes but we need an address and it cost money.&quot; -I'm glad they here 'cause they By them being here -Yeah, yeah. -And they ain't helping us, man. The mayor of this dog gone city How should I put it? Like dog sh*t. -That's how you feel? -That's how I feel, like we dog sh*t. I'm a black man who have got and the mayor of Chicago ain't help us. Lori Lightfoot, I miss you, baby. -You like Lightfoot? -I miss Lightfoot, I miss her. She got buildings built over here. -Oh, yeah? -She got buildings for the black people and for them too. -Okay. -Helping the people I don't know who this man is -He's a straight up bum. -[woman] Thank you. [Spanish] Oof. Heavy situation, guys, and it comes down to one thing. Really bad policy right now in And everyone loses in the process. People like this, they come in, and can't integrate. They're sort of in this limbo status. I mean what does that The people that are doing it legally, Some, nobody knows for sure, are legitimate asylum claims. So most of these are economic migrants. Which means their case Which means when most likely it will be tossed out, and they'll be sent back. The courts are so backed up, but last time I heard If they're not legitimate asylum claims they're not gonna So they're in the country, illegal, It benefits nobody. We need immigration. We need the best and the brightest. We need the people to fill the jobs but there has to be This chaotic insanity helps nobody. I guess some powerful people maybe they're doing well but nobody else is. Everyone's getting screwed in the process. Didn't expect to be here this long but hey, the story goes So lets' cruise, Wow, what a different Chicago down here. This is definitely different Is this a family operation? -Yes. -We're the Pit Bros. -Okay, this is what we got, Pit Bros. -The Pit Bros 22 on Facebook and Instagram -And TikTok, y'all. [Peter] Oh, nice... wow. [man] Rib tips over there, We got jerk chicken and steak rice. -I'm so in on this. -We got a jerk chicken pasta. -I'll do the chicken... Oh, you're giving me a sample? -Thank you, sir. You know my father's Italian, -Oh yeah? -We put Italian sauce and Italian pepper. [both men] Don't tell him everything. [Peter] You gotta keep the secrets. -[boy] I didn't tell everything. [Peter] Oh, that's a lot, -We gonna hook you up, man. -We grew up here all our life, Everybody saying it's Nah, it's the people make it So I think us being here from open a business For a year and a half -They've taken you in well in the South? -Oh yes, open arms. Everybody open arms. They love our food, they always -Do you mind if I eat here? -Is that cool? -Get you a seat. [Peter] Are you a cook too? [man] What did you do today? -I seasoned. -I seasoned for ribs. -Awesome, can you hold this? Let's go in with the pasta. Here we go. Very nice, very nice. Nice tender chicken. It's really good, you guys. [boy] I make the sauces, nobody got 'em. -So I gave you a fresh one right here. -You made this? I made a fresh one. -Fresh sauces? -That's rare these days. [chopping] [Peter] What is this setup you got -No, this me driving a truck route. -Oh okay, nice. I hurt myself, -Well thanks for what you guys do. -Without you guys, everything stops. We trying to put all that for y'all. [all laughing] [Peter] That comes in cars mostly. Doesn't it? -You're single? -Both you guys? -Ready to mingle, fair to say? -Anytime, anytime. [all laughing] -They know where to find you guys. What are you looking? Is there Be specific. -I can't be specific, -Okay, so you like-- [laughter] -I like 'em all. -All different spaces? [laughter] [Peter] Why haven't you -I don't need no hooking up, -I don't think you guys got problems. -[boy] No. -I played ball in high school. He did all the sports. I played ball overseas. After college I played four and a half years -Where? -China, Shanghai, Beijing, Seoul, Korea, Hong Kong, Panama City, Panama, and then Belize. -How was that? To be 36 and you're passport four. It's bada**. -What country did you really like? -I loved China the most because the interaction They never... It was a little small town. Guanpen, they never seen Like in person. -You blew their mind? In the middle of the game and do all that sh*t. You're pissed, you're losing by like 20 and they want to come behind you It was bada**. -What years were you there in China? -I was in China 2012 to 2014. -Okay. -So how'd it feel traveling Thoughts about the US? -I love US, we got it good. We got it so f*cking good. Like I seen poverty at the lowest. We was in nice suites and you can look down your suite Like kids drinking out of water, and here I got So it was a bad deal. So we got it real good. Yeah, I wouldn't... Hands down. -As you see, we's doing and showing the kids that you can or doing negative things in the community. We selling food and make it known, You can start from scratch -So South Side has a bad reputation. -What's true, what's not, -It's a false narrative. You know, it's a lot of great people -A lot of great people, they help us out. A lot of people, we help each other but they put the narrative They make more negative people that's in the communities. -Good point. Do you guys get along -We love the police. -They come buy food. They do everything. We was just in a meeting with the police. -So do the police... Most people want them here What are you thoughts? -It's a toss up, like 50/50 toss up. -Okay. -I think they want it to be more diverse. I think they want it In certain neighborhoods in an all black neighborhood. -It should be mixed, Caucasian and Black. -You rarely see it but you're starting Mayor Johnson got in, You starting to see a lot more... -A lot of US cities, like LA for example, the neighborhood you're in, Like the majority of that neighborhood. -But not Chicago? -Chicago is diverse. It's one of the most -Tell me about that -You got every race of people is -Because of the history? -Like you got the white people You got the black people So we all inside around the white people. So that's the dynamic of the city. So ain't nobody together Any other state, people living together. -But you guys, I've been and I haven't had any problems. -I'm sure there could be. You go to Chinatown, 'cause it's gonna be all Chinese people So it's becoming diverse day by day you can tell what neighborhood When you drive through Every store is Spanish so you know it's -But you'll see Hispanics -Yeah. -They starting to move -Tupac said, &quot;Inglewood up to no good.&quot; [all laughing] -That's not for Chicago Englewood. [boy] I got a question. -Talk to me. -I wanted to go to the South Side. And I thought the heart of it -[man] It is. -You know they sell It's a lot of poverty. -Does that frustrate you? Nah, it don't stop me from bringing -Cool. -We make people come together. Just 'cause-- What up, brother? -How you doing, big dog? -Ya'll good? -Food is a universal thing. It brings people together. -You got gangs, everybody come to us. Gang members come to us, everybody come. They come here -So nobody messes with -Nah. Nah, unless you did something wrong. If you show respect to these guys, Everybody got the sense of making money. However they gonna do it, trying to make something We got good food, -'Cause mostly all barbecue restaurants but they give you less food. And the food is sometimes good and we try to make our food for the people in our community, and we make our prices not that huge Because it's hard, you know? Sometimes hard to make money in Chicago. So the guys at the barbecue said, &quot;You're fine now but get out by dark.&quot; Even though they said everything isn't There's community, a lot of great people. They did say off-camera, which I've heard in every big city, there's less order. There's more chaos. So with the youth There used to be hierarchy. So in the '90s That's what they said, And even if you go back to the mob days, and now that's So they said [fire truck siren] [street preacher shouting] My people doth not consider. But Israel don't know and his people, the 12 tribes of Israel don't know. Why they don't know? Because they walk around They try to educate you that -So it changes in South Side to the University of Chicago. Hyde Park is a famous part of town and it's night and day. It really changes quickly. It's one of those cities Go to all the hot spots and whatnot. Today got on a bit of a detour Which that's what makes it cool, right? When things just happen. And you just flow with it. jazz Peaceful neighborhood here. Ukrainian village. A lot of Pols in Chicago. A lot of Ukrainians here. A lot of everyone here really. So we saw about 1.5% of the city today. This place is a beast. [woman] My mom is like, -Oh your mom's gonna show us the churches? -Are you Ukrainian? -From where? -From Lviv, west part of Ukraine. -I've been there, it's nice. [woman] This flower shop was on Twitter came to Ukrainian village -Okay. -So they put on Twitter, this flower shop 'cause they got the flowers -So you're both official tour guides? -Yes. [chuckles] -Ukraine, Greek Catholic church. -Beautiful -And there is the cathedral -[Ukrainian] -It was built in 1912. -Oh the church behind here? [Peter] That's beautiful. It feels a little bit -If you're right here. [Peter] That was very nice And for those my wife, who edits I lived in Ukraine for four years. I have a very close connection So it's very nice to end up here today. So what did we learn? These first impressions, my biggest takeaways It's really stunning here I gotta say. It's very unique. The beach situation. Of course I knew the lake was here but wasn't really thinking I hear it really takes off warm summer days. The street food was good. The little street food I had today. The very distinct neighborhoods, different identities. And then we even saw border policy affecting the local police department, and people stuck Very interesting stuff. Very interesting city. This was just the start guys We're gonna see different part of the city, different stories. Thanks for coming along. Until the next one. jazz