The woman known to history as Hatshepsut was BC. Her father was Thutmose I, a Pharaoh of the of Thebes, which is now in the modern city of the Mediterranean Sea. Thutmose I was a renowned military leader Egyptian Empire eastwards into the Levant and southern Egypt. He was likely the son of the previous Pharaoh, Egyptians did not create family trees so identifying Her mother was Ahmose, the principal wife parents were, although it is highly likely Egyptologists have argued that she was the the sister and wife of Thutmose, something she was never given the title of King's the King's Sister, suggesting she was the Ahmose and her husband Thutmose I had two - and no surviving sons, which would become Hatshepsut was only the second historically titles and power of a Pharaoh. She belonged to the 18th Dynasty which ran over two decades, from 1478 BC to 1458 BC. Hatshepsut lived over 3,500 years ago and of Ancient Egyptian history is, Hatshepsut of the Pyramids of Giza and 100 years before 1,400 years before the most famous female Little is known about Hatshepsut's childhood Ladies", highlighted her prominent position She certainly would have had important royal in religious rituals. She was known to worship the cow goddess Hathor beauty, music, dancing, fertility and pleasure There were 42 state gods and goddesses in most important of which was Amun-Ra, the sun the gods. As the eldest daughter of the Pharaoh, Hatshepsut Pharaoh - a tradition which aimed to keep And so at around the age of 12, she married principal wife. As Thutmose II was younger than Hatshepsut, her husband's name when their father, Thutmose By the time Hatshepsut came to full power was already 17 centuries old as legendary in around 3100 BC. As it is today, the land of Ancient Egypt cut through the desert and gave the names was up river in the south) and Lower Egypt, Delta region). The King (or Pharaoh) ruled both regions, Egypt, Lord of the Two Lands. But there were distinct differences between They had different protector goddesses - Nekhbet the cobra goddess in Lower Egypt. The regions were also represented by different papyrus for the Lower, which were often tied In those periods when Upper and Lower Egypt astonishing cultural achievement, they were The first golden age occurred during the period was the age of the pyramids. Disintegration and competing dynastic families - a period called the First Intermediate Period The Middle Kingdom from 2030 BC to 1650 BC culture and literature flourished. This period of growth had begun with the reunification however the beginning of the end of the Middle line. Female Pharaoh Sobekneferu died in 1802 BC of the successful 12th dynasty. The next two dynasties, which overlapped, The 13th dynasty was forced to retreat southwards dynasty forming. The breakaway 14th dynasty reigned separately The Second Intermediate Period from1650 BC divided. In the north, the Hyksos Dynasty arrived from 15th Dynasty. In the south, the Kingdom of Kush, an early Sudan, expanded its reach. In the middle sat the Egyptian kingdom of It was during the 17th Dynasty that war was pushed out of Egypt by the Thebans of the It was at this time that Upper and Lower Egypt BC and the third golden age began. This brought Ancient Egypt full circle as Upper and Lower Egypt at the start of the age. In reunifying the country, Ahmose became the of the 18th Dynasty - to which Hatshepsut As the period of foreign rule in Egypt came empire. During the Second Intermediate Period, the Egyptians to expand further south into Nubia. The Kingdom of Kush was firmly pushed back 1500 BC and the earlier defeat of the Hyksos, the New Kingdom of Egypt expand into the Levant. It was during this time, just before Hatshepsut's greatest territorial extent. Hatshepsut was directly related to these empire-expanding As well as her father Thutmose I, Hatshepsut of Upper and Lower Egypt and the first ruler from the same dynasty, tracing their family Ahmose I's son - Amenhotep I - was his successor, unclear. Amenhotep I was succeeded by Thutmose I, but which puts a question mark over his connection Some Egyptologists have argued that Thutmose's Thutmose his son-in-law rather than biological Or he might have been Amenhotep's son born his use of the title King's Son. It is also possible that Thutmose was a general however a violent coup can be ruled out as transition of power occurred. Dynastic problems did not come to an end after was that sons born to secondary wives and heirs. Thutmose I and his principal wife, Ahmose, of whom Hatshepsut was the oldest. Thutmose I did have a son - Thutmose II - with best, according to tradition, that Thutmose Hatshepsut. This would bolster the credentials of Thutmose Egyptologists of the past have presented Thutmose This presentation was not necessarily rooted to present Hatshepsut as domineering. A shrewd Hatshepsut was supposed to have manipulated in his name. However public monuments paint a different A dutiful Hatshepsut is shown standing behind him, as the Pharaoh but the limited scale a deeper understanding of his reign and the Thutmose II ruled only for a short time after He was succeeded by his wife and half-sister, had almost been passed over - the lack of Just like his father, Thutmose II did have This child - Thutmose III - could not immediately And like with the accession of Thutmose II, status as the son of a secondary wife. The weakening of the direct royal line was Instead, as tradition indicated, Hatshepsut - a role which soon grew to that of a co-ruler. There had been precedents of widowed principal the affairs of the government for their young meant that young rulers and the requirement And Hatshepsut's royal credentials as both Thutmose III was recognised as king from the from 1478 BC to 1473 BC. Monuments from the time show the child king performing royal duties and rituals. Hatshepsut, dressed in royal female garb, over her step-son but Hatshepsut's rise of their joint reign. It was only several years later that Hatshepsut of the male Pharaoh, indicating a change in The first example we have of this gender-swapping the co-regent period, with Hatshepsut depicted the robes of a female ruler but the crown This slow adoption of the symbols of the Pharaoh rather than an abrupt coup. In around 1473 BC, Hatshepsut took on the the regalia and other formal titles of the This was a permanent promotion - Hatshepsut age, as the role of Pharaoh was a life-long Pharaohs could not abdicate or rule temporarily. But even at this time, when her power was Thutmose III. The reasons behind Hatshepsut's decision lost to history. She may have been acting to safeguard the mother Isis and Hatshepsut's mother Ahmose royal generation and perhaps left Hatshepsut Although 19th- and 20th-century Egyptologists cunning woman with an unnatural hunger for this view. It was more likely that Hatshepsut's instinct name of Thutmose III. Ruling with the full power of the Pharaoh risk, given the existence of a legitimate Pharaohs. But a political crisis - perhaps a threat - forced her hand. She could not rule for Thutmose with the title son. His own mother Isis had been unable to take no royal blood. Between her own gender, Thutmose III's young of a secondary wife, Hatshepsut's options In the end, she was the best placed to rule Pharaohs and the holder of the influential The title of God's Wife of Amun had given co-regent or co-ruler. It was this title that won her the support The God's Wife led festivals to the god who was later merged with the ancient sun priest in his sacred duties at the Great Temple She was held in high regard because it was who was revered in Thebes as the creator god The God's Wife had enough influence and a priest-led society, where religion and government Hatshepsut was the last God's Wife for many enormous power, privilege and wealth on the Hatshepsut's experience leading religious stood her in good stead for the duties of As well as leading religious processions and responsibility. Ancient Egyptians saw their Pharaohs as a Pharaohs would be responsible for direct communication were charged with maintaining the cosmic order In many cases, Pharaohs themselves were seen to be born of Amun-Ra, including Hatshepsut, divine beings. As well as the support of the priests, Hatshepsut family and the courtiers. Arguments that the cunning Hatshepsut sought undermined by the fact that the Ancient Egyptian elite groups. The risk of being overthrown would have reminded It seems likely that the courtiers, as well to power. Only 70 years before her reign, Egypt had Period, with large regions ruled by other and the Kingdom of Kush in the south. Courtiers relied on the royal family for their royal line would have threatened their power Stability and prosperity were the aims of legacy of her father, Thutmose I, seemed to There is no surviving evidence that suggests reign. Although she technically ruled as a co-ruler was in charge, with her step-son happy to her. Despite 19th- and 20th-century attempts to with Thutmose seen as embittered by his step-mother's this. The pieces of evidence which have reached relationship. While he grew up, Thutmose valued Hatshepsut's father's reign while he fought in campaigns, a direct descendent of the royal bloodline. Without the public and elite support Hatshepsut would have lost the throne to another. It was perhaps the fear of her royal line to become Pharaoh. Her claim to more power was supported and including the Khat head cloth featuring the beard and shendyt kilt. Many statues survive showing Hatshepsut in In reliefs she is shown striding forward and pious kneeling posture, rather than the demure The feminine ankle-length dress and closed Women could have high status in Ancient Egypt many other ancient and modern civilisations. There had been examples of powerful Egyptian Ahmose, who wielded great influence as the Throughout Ancient Egyptian history, many and both before and after Hatshepsut women Khentkaus I, Nitocris and Sobekneferu had and Nefernferuaten, Twosret and Cleopatra who came after her. But there was no word for Queen in Ancient to those who married the Pharaoh. The ruler was called the King or Pharaoh, And female Pharaohs, that is, women who ruled and titles of Pharaoh, were not common. Before Hatshepsut, there had only been Sobekneferu, had taken on the male title of king. As the office of Pharaoh was a distinctly rulers. The symbolism of Ancient Egyptian kingship masculine dress - was designed for male rulers, to son. In the majority of the statues and works of Hatshepsut is presented as a masculine king. This was one of the reasons why it took Egyptologists said female king but the imagery was almost Presenting herself as a male king wasn't Egyptian art often presented things as they Older kings and infant kings, like Thutmose trim, masculine physiques. She presented herself as other kings did. Relief scenes show Hatshepsut completing historic gods and celebrating festivals to trampling Hatshepsut did not completely hide her femininity the kingship. She replaced the traditional male titles and and reliefs with feminine variations. Her name was often followed up with "Daughter used led to grammatical oxymorons like "His In private spaces, statues of Hatshepsut depicted Two rare examples of these statues, now in show her with the masculine headdress of the silhouette or even in full feminine dress. It was in public spaces, such as on the processional king in the prime of life. When in sphinx form, kneeling or standing, as the ideal male king, she also called on her legitimacy. She styled herself as Maatkare - meaning "Truth her connection to Amun - one myth even has She aimed to highlight her moral responsibilities Maat - meaning the truth, order and justice as the legitimate Pharaoh to communicate with This title plainly said that she was destined and prosperity to Egypt. Hatshepsut's legitimacy was further bolstered The Oracle declared that Hatshepsut's rise Hatshepsut promoted the words of the Oracle of her grand monuments: "Welcome my sweet and Lower Egypt, Maatkare, Hatshepsut. Thou art the Pharaoh, taking possession of But even the Oracle's words did not make was a co-ruler. She ordered a relief to be made to showcase and Thutmose III. This relief was placed in the Red Chapel, at the Temple of Karnak which housed the Userhat-Amun around). Both she and her co-ruler Thutmose were presented of precedence. The words of Amun, via the Oracle, and this sacred to Amun emphasised her divine right To highlight her legitimacy, Hatshepsut also Thutmose I. She appeared to idolise her father, and expansion. When Hatshepsut was a young child, he had in Nubia with the naked body of a Nubian chieftain Thutmose's expansion of the Egyptian Empire By presenting herself as her father's chosen legacy and to a long line of successful Pharaohs However historical evidence to support Hatshepsut's has not been found. The claim seems especially dubious given that Thutmose II to strengthen his claim as heir. Tradition dictated that sons, even those of Historically, women had only come to power So it seems unlikely that Thutmose I would But Hatshepsut ensured that her version of claim on the walls of her mortuary temple "Then his majesty said to them: 'This she live!--I have appointed as my successor in every sphere of the palace; it is she indeed Obey her words, unite yourselves at her command.' The royal nobles, the dignitaries, and the of the promotion of his daughter, the King live eternally." Visual representations and inscriptions in history and successful kingship. Without these architectural works, little But more importantly, building programs gave and legend-building. The achievements of the Pharaohs would live they were gone. And Hatshepsut understood this better than Hatshepsut has been remembered predominantly Her reign saw a cultural renaissance that art and architecture for a millennium. She was one of the most prolific Pharaoh builders and Lower Egypt and especially around the Many temples were built to display her piety as the God's Wife of Amun. She also sought to promote her own accomplishments to Egypt. It was a chance for her to write her own story Her buildings were of a much grander style that later rulers attempted to claim them She ordered the production of so much statuary from Hatshepsut's reign in their Ancient dedicated to her pieces at the New York Metropolitan The vastness of her building and statuary her as a ruler and about how she wanted to The grandest of all Hatshepsut's building Temple of Hatshepsut, which still exists. Ancient Egyptian mortuary temples were not of the eternal life of the Pharaoh and their A mortuary temple was built for Hatshepsut Bank of the Nile River, across the bank from city of Luxor. It was built into the cliff face looking towards side of the Nile, where prestigious temples She chose a site that would add to her prestige II, the first king of the Middle Kingdom and Egypt. The plot had originally been quarried for Hatshepsut linked her own mortuary temple to him and tying their legacies together to She sought to present herself as the rightful I. She even created a mortuary cult for him so that they would lie there together. Hatshepsut and her father Thutmose I were resting places in this region. Hatshepsut's mortuary temple was so illustrious temples near to hers, forming what is now Architectural innovation dominated the design It began as a small project in the shadow The project grew into a large terraced monument impressive architectural skill. It was enormous - almost the size of two and It featured so many colonnades and courtyards up to the side of the mountain. Hatshepsut moved away from the fortress-like a more ornate, aesthetically pleasing look. Her beautiful architectural style inspired temples. Although many of the intricate elements of is enough evidence left behind to piece together its heyday. The lower levels of her temple were softened The myrrh trees from the famous trade expedition were planted here to highlight her link with had brought to Egypt. The likeness of Hatshepsut appeared in the Over a hundred statues of the female Pharaoh way. These Hatshepsut sphinxes were placed here guardian. This form also had the benefit of removing the head of the Pharaoh and the body of a wings. More images of Hatshepsut were placed on the Some of these statues were over 10 feet tall distance. Several show Hatshepsut in devotional poses, gods or even taking on the appearance of Osiris, The majority of the statues of Hatshepsut of the traditionally male Pharaoh. Many of them have survived - some whole and The centrepiece of the project was the Djeser-Djeseru, temple which was accessed along a large causeway. It was a symmetrical multi-columned structure, Athens which was built nearly 1,000 years The Djeser-Djeseru sat back in the cliff face In the Djeser-Djeseru were altars to Amun-Ra to worship her even after her death. As well as their religious function, mortuary The reliefs inside Hatshepsut's temple celebrated The trading expedition to semi-mythical Punt On the relief sailors and traders load exotic panther skins to frankincense, as well as temple. The accompanying inscription reads: "Never the world was". This relief showed Hatshepsut as a successful The trading mission to Punt was just one of and the prosperity they brought to Egypt was It also showed Hatshepsut as a successful were thought to be especially desirable to Another significant relief showed Hatshepsut's Hatshepsut encouraged the narrative that she who had appeared to her mother in the form The later trend for emphasising a Pharaoh's Hatshepsut who needed to legitimise her claim Hatshepsut sought to highlight the sacred particular her personal link with Amun. It was the first time a Pharaoh had built to the god Amun. As well as the altar to Amun, new religious and his connection with the Pharaoh. For example, during a festival of the dead, the river to spend a night in Hatshepsut's The religious rituals she created - usually as important as the buildings she commissioned Pharaoh. The landscape of Egypt was fundamentally altered As well as her mortuary temple in Deir el-Bahari, monuments across Egypt. Monuments were constructed at the Temple of The Red Chapel was built here, which was a carvings showing key moments from Hatshepsut's A pair of obelisks were constructed to celebrate This momentous construction was commemorated being transported along the Nile by 27 ships. As well as telling the story of her reign, glimpse at Hatshepsutian architectural design The discovery of the Unfinished Obelisk - a where it was made - shows the hard work, craftsmanship monuments. Hatshepsut also ordered the restoration of The Precinct of Mut - the mother goddess of occupation and was rebuilt under Hatshepsut. The new design featured twin obelisks at the the tallest in the world. One of them still stands today and is the The restoration of the Mut Precinct was a Pharaohs pillaged it for features to bolster Other important building projects ordered at Beni Hasan, south of Al Minya. The temple mixed the cultures north and south and Sekhmet - two lioness war goddesses. Inside was a denunciation of the Hyksos by In it she claimed that the Hyksos occupation was reversed by Hatshepsut herself. The huge underground temple was admired by the Ptolemaic Dynasty as it bore resemblance was renamed by them the Speos Artemidos. As with other impressive buildings, a later - attempted to wipe Hatsheput's name from Hatshepsut also devoted time and money to These works were mainly focused on the area centre of the Thutmose-Hatshepsut era. A network of roads and sanctuaries were built, and were also used for royal and theological The transformation of the physical and ritual only accomplishment. She also brought huge wealth to Egypt by bolstering uninterested in expensive wars. This was important as her innovations in architecture It also pleased the elites who desired access their status. Maintaining the golden age ensured Hatshepsut Hatshepsut came from a line of economically Her ancestor, Ahmose I, had reunified Egypt triggering a golden age, and her father, Thutmose and expanding nation to rule. Spurred on by the economic growth and stability court began to develop a cosmopolitan outlook. An interest in the technological and luxury the 18th Dynasty period as a whole, but was There is archaeological evidence that new of the 18th Dynasty, from new musical instruments Hatshepsut supported this more outward-facing by building and reforming foreign ties. She sent expeditions to foreign lands to the embassies to visit with diplomatic gifts, She built new trading links to gain access was charred to make kohl eyeliner, to oil She worked to re-establish the trade networks She was particularly interested in reopening to the ancient traditions of kingship, ritual Foreign trade was vital to a Pharaoh because and legitimacy, but also had an important Exotic goods, such as frankincense, which its smell, and myrrh, were thought to impress was used to legitimise Hatshepsut's trade Towards the middle of her reign, Hatshepsut land of Punt. This fleet was made up of 5 ships at 21 metres As Punt was located somewhere on the Red Sea, were required to flat-pack their ships and to the Red Sea. The expedition was successful and returned panther skins and, for the first time in recorded The expedition was commemorated in a relief and temples on the west bank of the Nile. The prosperity which resulted from Hatshepsut's by military expenses. Although her father had won fame through military a peaceful foreign policy. The only possible exceptions to her peaceful the Sinai Peninsula and campaigns against An early successful and short campaign in temple, though this militaristic relief does Hatshepsut's foreign policy was directed An important element in Hatshepsut's success These handpicked officials controlled the effective rule, from diplomacy to monument The most notable of these officials was Senenmut, of all Royal Works. Senenmut came from a non-royal, non-elite He rose quickly within royal circles after Neferure. The number of his titles and responsibilities Egyptologists he had as many as 93 titles, Amun. His responsibilities in this important role god Amun, which would have brought him huge As the Overseer of all Royal Works, he also projects, including possibly designing her The trust Hatshepsut had in him is evident her daughter, her most prized god and the Senenmut took advantage of his new wealth and at least 26 statues - more than any other The masses of images and text about Senenmut were presented. He even had images of himself praying placed hidden discreetly behind doors which would enter the temple. For Ancient Egyptians, this merging of royal would have been unusual and even distasteful. As Senenmut never married, and Hatshepsut it has been suggested that they were lovers. Three somewhat unconvincing pieces of evidence Firstly, the titles and honours Hatshepsut Secondly, the fact that Senenmut's name more than her husband's name. And thirdly, a statue, now in the Neues Museum child believed to be Hatshepsut's daughter This third piece of evidence certainly highlights tutee Neferure and Hatshepsut because non-aristocrats However, there is no strong evidence to support had a physical relationship. While an example of temple graffiti showing woman (who may or may not be wearing the headdress Hatshepsut and Senenmut, there is no evidence It is clear that Hatshepsut trusted and relied successfully made a space for himself in the is no legitimate evidence that they were lovers. After a long reign which spanned two decades, Although the precise date of her death is the start of his reign on the 16th of January In that year he took on the title "Ruler that Hatshepsut had died. She is thought to have died in her late 40s long life in ancient times. No record of the cause of death has survived. It is believed that Hatshepsut was initially had wished. However, Thutmose I's body was later moved Hatshepsut's mummy was perhaps also moved believed to be in the tomb of her nurse, Sitre This change was perhaps ordered by Amenhotep as he sought to secure his own uncertain legitimacy Given this confusion, Hatshepsut's mummy Her mortuary temple, recorded as tomb KV20, But in 1902 archaeologist Howard Carter, who a second possible location for Hatshepsut's been the burial place of her nurse Sitre In. This second site seemed to fit in with the location by her successors. Inside this tomb two female mummies were found nurse. The other was not identified. It was not until 2007 that archaeologist Zahi community claiming that this second female The process of identification was unconventional testing. Instead, a missing tooth in a box with Hatshepsut's it seemed to be a perfect fit. If this was Hatshepsut's mummy, it can shed This mummy showed signs of bone cancer - perhaps lotion found with the body. Her family was said to suffer from a genetic lotion had been used to soothe this condition. However, the tooth may have belonged to a 21st Dynasty. Equally, the hand position of the mummy was suggests it wasn't her. In 2011 the identification of the missing The tooth was a lower molar, while the mummy Doubt was cast on Hawass' theory. But calls for the DNA testing of the tooth who wanted to protect it against the destruction To further complicate matters, Hatshepsut's different sites across the Valley of the Kings. These items included a wide range of goods game pieces, all displaying her favoured lioness The true location of Hatshepsut's mummy, simply never be found. Hatshepsut's resting place has been hard she disappeared from history. She is missing from the roll list of kings Her many monuments and temples were ascribed references to a female ruler around that time - but her name had vanished. Hatshepsut was returned to history in 1822 what appeared to be a male ruler by Jean-Francois The hieroglyphic inscription on this masculine female ruler. The statue had been found in the inner chambers - everything in the public-facing areas had Even when Hatshepsut did appear in the historical often described her as a usurper. She was seen as a manipulative woman with of her young step-son. She was interpreted as a "vain, ambitious, Museum curator William Hayes in 1953, who alongside curator Herbert Winlock. The scholarly consensus in the 19th and 20th rather than inherited it. Discoveries of pits full of broken Hatshepsut the view that Hatshepsut had stolen the throne upon her legacy. The attack on Hatshepsut's image seems brutal The heads of her statue had been severed and forehead. The Pharaohs were regarded as god-like, often so this defilement was blasphemous. Other powerful women had been spared this But Hatshepsut had ruled not as a King's women had, but as a female King. These Kings' Mothers were honoured for generations, that a woman holding power was not inappropriate But female regnants and female Pharaohs were Perhaps because they were succeeded not by to the royal line and limited legitimacy. Destroying the public memory of these female later kings. The attempted erasure of Hatshepsut from history Thutmose III's reign and more certainly The erasure was carried out in a haphazard Crude cover-ups and additions aimed to hide I or Thutmose II. Her image was chiselled off stone walls, her in works of art. Her statues were pulled down and smashed. In 1927 when curator Herbert Winlock discovered he assumed this proved she had usurped the for this reason. The real reason why this incomplete rewriting Answers posed by archaeologists have included There was a tradition of rulers reusing the Pharaohs for themselves. It has been argued that Amenhotep II, as co-ruler ordered the defacing of Hatshepsut's monuments. His legitimacy was perhaps questioned by Hatshepsut's held the purer line of descent from the great He also broke from royal tradition by not the powerful roles and titles of royal women, Older explanations that Thutmose III had co-reigned to erase her from history out of bitterness Thutmose had the power, as leader of her army, Even after her death, her images remained his reign. The haphazard nature of the erasures also long-awaited revenge against Hatshepsut - the to the present if the motive had been hatred Only the most visible, most accessible images Access to her image was maintained beyond It has been suggested that her image and name had orchestrated her erasure had wanted to Mortuary temples were built to honour the of that particular Pharaoh. The cult of the Pharaoh would continue to rituals which renewed the Pharaoh's divinity. It was believed that after their death, Pharaohs god of reincarnation, and Ra, god of the sun. Given this view of Egyptian kingship, whoever tarnishing her divinity. Another theory was that Thutmose aimed to - the traditional role of powerful women - in patterns. The achievements of Hatshepsut's reign was Pharaoh could be successfully held by a woman. Hatshepsut proved - more so than other Ancient rule during a long, prosperous and expansive It would also have simplified Thutmose III's inherited it directly from Thutmose II, the This would explain why only public celebrations erased and why her name was removed from king If the reinterpretation was an attempt to this would explain why the attack on Hatshepsut reign. Whatever the motive, the brutal but haphazard picture of her when she was rescued from history. The destruction of her image and monuments she was a power-hungry woman who deserved But as cultural attitudes towards women in Instead of asking how she had tricked her historians today debate the circumstances her relationship with her co-ruler Thutmose her memory 20 years after her death. She broke tradition by ruling as regent for She was only the second woman to become Pharaoh She bolstered female kingship and built extensive Many women went on to hold positions of power, But she was perhaps given this power by men Her heritage and her record as the God's father was on military campaigns had perhaps to rule Egypt at a time of prosperity. She was, as historian Kara Cooney states, as a king in Ancient Egypt during a time of And then she was erased from history. There is evidence to suggest that Hatshepsut be deliberately buried. On a second pair of obelisks at Karnak, she "Now my heart turns this way and that, as shall see my monuments in years to come, and Although she temporarily disappeared from Pharaoh (a distinction reserved for Cleopatra), legacy of any Pharaoh. Her monuments and temples inspired thousands gone. Some of the greatest architectural wonders temple, were built during her reign. Masses of exotic goods, artefacts, artworks show that she laid the foundations of the Ancient Egypt undoubtedly flourished under What do you think of Hatshepsut? Was she an effective and legitimate ruler history because she had stolen the throne? Please let us know in the comment section, watching.