- This video is brought an all-in-one platform and growing your business online. Hello, my beautiful doves. I feel like it's been a while, I don't know why I grasped, I grasped for you like that. (laughs) (birds chirping) (cat meows) I feel like it's been a while since I greeted everyone in that way. And you know what? It's also been a while did finger waves in my hair, even accessorized more maximally as I had been doing for years now. Surprisingly, I haven't about why my style has changed so much, but every so often, someone will be like, &quot;What happened to your brows?&quot; And sometimes they get where someone will be like, &quot;You look so much better now For anyone who doesn't know me, if this is the first video you've ever clicked on my channel, I used to dress way more eccentrically. I feel like I actually as one might say, based And nowadays, while I of mostly vintage and because that's just part of my ethics, I don't gravitate towards statement pieces as often as I used to. My friend and amazingly recently sent me actually a short film that she filmed of me on And in the video, I was showing her my and talking about my attitude And it was so funny to watch because it was like a time And even though I still believe fashion can be such a wonderful creative outlet, my understanding of fashion has deepened and I feel like my engagement with it is less superficial than it was before. Also crazy to think that within a year and a half. Anyways, today I wanna interrogate what it means to have personal style. This video is definitely more personal than my previous ones, because personal style is such an important part of my life. And many of the things I'm imparting are personal realizations, though, of course, I'm backing and providing other anecdotes so that you're not just witnessing a single person's spiral. You know what, let's just get into it. Let's get into it. I've been a Squarespace because I do think it's the to build both a functional There are so many tools and The world is really your One of the features I wanna highlight is its online storefront capabilities. You can list physical or with a click of just a few buttons and track orders internally If you're an independent Squarespace also has a donations feature where you can set up a or recurring contributions Check out squarespace.com And when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com/minale to get 10% off your first - [Narrator] Style is not the same thing as fashion, which changes. Style is the use of definite It doesn't require expensive clothes, but it does require good taste. (soft music) - A few months ago, I got and discovered for the which she included in her book of essays, &quot;The White Album&quot;. On her list titled &quot;To Pack and Wear,&quot; she has two skirts, two one pullover sweater, two pairs of shoes, stockings, bra, nightgown, robe, slippers, cigarettes, bourbon, She doesn't say how long her trips are, but I assume it's a weekend She also doesn't mention but that's none of my business. That's between Joan and God. I was really captivated by how simple this packing list was, especially because when I have to literally sit on top And once I'm at the airport, without fail, I'm like sweating at the check-in desk to make sure it's all under the weight limit. By the way, my tendency to overpack is so I have a bunch of styling not because I actually think I'll wear all these clothes in one week. But I was curious about the Joan Didion minimal outfit formula, and I wanted to try it out myself. I wasn't traveling anywhere, but for 10 days straight at home, I alternated between two outfits, a white skirt and a white t-shirt, and a black skirt with a black t-shirt. And honestly, this is I've felt in a really long time. Caution, this is where I'll get into something very situational for me, which inevitably carries but I feel like it's why I did this challenge to begin with. For a while, I was on and just getting myself to do anything was like really tough, especially because I work from home. But I solved that problem if I could just change out it could do wonders for my energy levels, put me in a new active However, that realization because then I realized it takes a lot of my creative energy to put together an outfit in my closet. So I would continue to put and on bad days, I would just like lay not seeing any sunlight, with my brain going at a quarter capacity. But when I adopted this I don't know, just everything I had the clothes already and I just needed to put Which brought me to the was actually making my life harder. Because look, I think the antithesis of personal style is the uniform. That's not to say that my two outfits were literal uniforms, by the way, because no one else around me which is kind of like the Everyone around you has to But when I was doing this challenge, I was thinking about the and wearing a school uniform. I myself went to public school, and my attitude towards Because in school, my sense of style was my creative outlet, and I really couldn't However, sometimes when I meet people who did wear school uniforms growing up, some of them actually praised because it was one less thing that they had to worry about in the morning. Similar to the revelation I had recently with my two outfit challenge. Similar to the realization at some point in his life when he decided that despite being one of the richest men in the world, he was going to wear the A black mock turtleneck, blue jeans, and New Balance sneakers. According to a 2012 study wearing certain clothes on the wearer's psychology known as &quot;enclothed cognition&quot;. In their study, the researchers found can boost performance as Without fully realizing it at the time, I ended up choosing a work uniform that similarly carries It was carrying the values of what I wanted to be perceived as, namely, a writer-artist. And that could also be I felt more motivated when I got dressed. Yes, for practical reasons, I that allowed for freer movement and that weren't too stimulating on the eyes, but I also followed Joan Didion's logic. She notes about her own packing list, &quot;Notice the deliberate In a skirt, a leotard, and stockings, I could pass on either As a reporter, it was important for her to be able to shapeshift to her environment. For me, I shapeshifted in the sense that I would wear this where I could more easily because the outfit was so plain. And even though I'm not a reporter, and so shapeshifting is not an important facet of my writing practice, I felt like borrowing cues did make me feel more as she's come to be known As I say all this, I want to is not completely devoid It's an outfit that I was, and two, a look I genuinely think was flattering on my body, but it was a pretty basic outfit. I'm not reinventing the wheel, there's millions of dressed in the same exact way. But why is it so bad to I've been exploring that question as well. I think over the last 10 years or so, looking or being basic has especially in creative cities like New York and in online spaces. But why is it so bad to have the same taste as the majority? (soft music) Brooke LaMantia wrote personal style week earlier this year about the realization she had that her personal style wasn't so personal. She writes, &quot;Last summer, my best friend and I were in Dimes Square when I noticed in different iterations An oversized tee, a skirt, white socks, sneakers or loafers, and some kind of I looked down. I was wearing an oversized an oversized button-up, a maxi skirt, white Nike socks, and vintage loafers. Suddenly, everywhere I and it felt mortifying.&quot; This comes following a over the past few years that personal style is dead. - I have to wear my slick back bun and my sambas and my TikTok uniform. And you know what I'm talking about? And it's like, you have You walk outside of your house and you're walking down the street and you can get inspired that way. So why are you looking on Pinterest, looking on TikTok to get inspired? Everyone is a clone. - Personal style is not literally dead, but the sentiment holds that are hanging on by a thread and Pinterest boards the same regurgitated microtrends. People have always participated Skinny jeans in the 2010s, leg of mutton sleeves in the 1890s. But the aesthetic churn previously a normal part feel more and more inorganic, especially with the Like how did we flip from to coastal grandma in a span of months? There's no through line other than TikTok virality. And the main argument against were that they were rooted in consumerism rather than an actual subculture. Chris Black wrote for GQ an essay about how Instagram killed personal style and points out that nowadays, rather than trying to people are focused on pieces. Buying the one often high dollar item that will make us feel good and give us the instant According to the business of fashion, it's actually more likely for to incorporate into their style rather than to try to mimic So for instance, rather than completely to buy pink Barbiecore clothes, you're more likely to reminiscent of Barbiecore, which maybe goes to show were a marketing tactic But the result of buying all is what I think ends up looking like the microtrend final boss meme. Um, it's just like a bunch of that have no harmony or cohesiveness and due to their context associated with TikTok fashion trends, the whole outfit looks more rather than like an authentic attempt at dressing eclectically. The fact that many of these trendy pieces never even took off in the real world goes to show the context of Friend of the channel Alexandra Hildreth told Vogue Business last year, &quot;You can tell someone's screen referring to how many TikTok specific trends a person is wearing. Now, I'm about to say something I think that's really so bear with me, but I actually don't think In that GQ article I mentioned earlier, Black writes, &quot;The bottom line, it is difficult, but We all have those old wearing some ridiculous outfit that felt so perfect at the time. I came of age during the Indie Sleaze era. The same photos of Paul get posted online over and over again because those men wore clothes that they clearly felt were for them.&quot; Okay, I think anyone looking back at old photos of themselves will always feel a certain tension about the way they were dressed or how they looked at the time. Like, we can't really but I am curious to about the idea of people regurgitating old photos of him still. The reason Indie Sleaze to millennials and older Zoomers is because we actually lived through it, and we also lived where those trends started but this happens to everyone or else we would all be since the beginning of As an example, many of to be a timeless style icon, yet in a 2017 interview with Vogue France, she said herself, &quot;When I see photos of me from 1968, my big doll eyes underlined with eyeliner, exaggerated mouth bangs, I find it horrible.&quot; You know, I also personally because we can literally Trends themselves are, I think, a natural part of being socially, visually-minded creatures. But to go back to my earlier question of why is it so bad to I personally think it's rooted in the fact that many of us are unhappy We don't want to be like everybody else because everyone else is lonely, umbilically tied to their phones, doesn't know how to read, needs therapy, and is addicted to online shopping. But I think we're afraid to admit that many of us are to everyone else, dealing with at least some of It's just easier to distance ourselves and to pretend that It's also a product of America's culture, which prizes cultivating over aligning with community. - Out here, a man - On the flip side, I don't want to take away from the very real history of subcultures and the importance of and dressing alternatively, because the mainstream I just want to say, though, that in our current climate, it seems like a lot of people who speak negatively about basic dressers are speaking out of ego and not for any like political reason. And I wonder if part of the reason why subcultural dress at least within the is because it's almost impossible to participate in the industry if you're too different. Yes, there's always of course, of course. Like I always see a fashion writer, Lynn Jaeger everywhere at all kinds of industry events. Jaeger, if you don't know her, she's known for her fuck-ass bob and Cupid's bow lipstick. She's iconic. And in 2005, she wrote the origins of this signature look. She said, &quot;I've never really understood &quot;why women are so timid. &quot;For me, only someone &quot;Diana Vreeland, say, or Minnie Mouse, &quot;is a person worth emulating, &quot;because,&quot; and here's a big secret, &quot;if you construct an eccentric look &quot;and make it your own, &quot;you will be forever insulated &quot;from the world of fashion, &quot;a place where, let's face it, &quot;you can never be listless enough, &quot;your hair never curly or straight enough, &quot;your chest never full or flat enough.&quot; And here's an added bonus, &quot;Truly wacky style doesn't date, &quot;so all those worries about wrinkles &quot;leave you blissfully unaffected.&quot; Yeager has a point. Though she's been working in the industry since the 1970s and has with her work over the years that it would actually be insane not to invite her to things. I think it's a lot harder in this oversaturated market where everyone has an opinion, everyone has an I think it's especially hard because now everyone's self-worth has become increasingly to sell products, which encourages a sell-out behavior. As a personal example here, when I was first starting my big goal was to be part I really wanted to get invited to all the cool shows go to the cool brand activations, get the cool ambassadorship, get invited to the the Met Gala, yada, yada, yada. If Anna Wintour is watching this, I would never say no to but this is all contextually. I'm trying to create, bringing us back to 2021. But you know, over time, I really never got the prestigious invites despite growing my following and establishing more legitimacy So I became confused. Like, what was I supposed to There's a number of factors, but a lot of it comes down to how marketable these brands find you to be. The more basic you are, the more of a blank slate and therefore the more marketable you are because you are malleable to I've had a friend tell me her manager once pitched her to Saint Laurent and they denied it was too colorful for the brand. - I hate influencers. - Just because you're good at marketing yourself on the internet doesn't make you a fashion expert. - Every six months, about how fashion week has been overrun by like unstylish influencers or whatever, which leads many other people to make parallels with the fashion blogger days. - My fashion blog is blowing up. - Fashion bloggers were first wave of industry interlopers and this, as some people say, is evidence that the fashion unwilling to accept change However, I think there's a huge difference between the initial fashion blogger run and the influencers we In the early fashion blogging days, and before brands learned how to seriously monetize these bloggers, that's important, there was a semblance of sartorial personality in the front row. I think about 13-year-old Tavi Gevinson sitting front row at Couture Week in her grandma chic outfits and then getting hated on for wearing a hat that was blocking someone's view. Nowadays, for the most part, the influencers sitting in the front row are expected to conform by borrowing sometimes an entire outfit straight from the brand's catalog. - Tell us who you're wearing. - I'm not hating on this, by the way, since I have been in this position. And actually, I prefer shoot me, because it means I have I've kind of gotten over the whole, like, need to be photographed in my Sunday's best attitude and I've started treating an industry event to network at rather than, like, a twice-a-year opportunity Personal style. That's just me. So the call is coming (phone ringing) Whatever. But just because I like doing this now doesn't mean I'm not aware of the optics for people who are scrolling through Instagram and TikTok at home. Like, looking through fashion used to be incredibly inspiring during the fashion blogger days, but it's become more with each passing fashion week. I don't wanna idolize the though, because this idea of was already starting to take Rosie Finley categorizes two waves of style blogging in her book, &quot;Personal Style Blogs.&quot; The first wave was more The second wave was more commercialized. Fancy DSLR photo shoots, and luxury product links to boot. Finley writes, &quot;It is desirable for second wave fashion bloggers to embody a particular accessible style that will align with companies and to attract a regular readership.&quot; It's not just the fashion though. The industry was squeezing everyone. Journalist David Graham wrote in 2012 that fashion journalism had He claims that fashion in passive collusion with They are notoriously submissive, because they are wed inextricably And when fashion critics don't submit, they risk getting blacklisted, as in the case with Kathy Horan, who was banned from spring/summer ready-to-wear 2012 show because she said in 2004 that the designs of then had been influenced by Though, honestly, this had been going on for years prior to that. Richard Martin observed that critics were getting banned from shows for making, quote, &quot;even In an essay published in 1998. The overall result, though, is fashion is a very sanitized industry. And the realization of this has led some fashion-minded young people to go on TikTok complaining about fashion week going downhill and wanting to be more experimental in their own day-to-day looks. It's kind of like a way of even though you're still technically participating in the establishment by shopping for clothes (soft music) Women's Wear Daily interviewed on what outfits they And many of the designers, like Glenn Martens of Y/Project, Matthieu Blazy of Bottega Veneta, and Edeline Lee all said in that they wear simple outfits because it's easy and practical for running around all day. I also really liked creative director of Etro, had to say. He said, &quot;I'm not the kind to express himself, so it's denim, and black shoes. I'm boring, I know. I save my fantasies for As I've gotten older, I've started to really I think my love for fashion has manifested mostly But when I was younger, used to be one of my only I also have gotten a lot of like my entire life. I remember learning that a for my high school's and I didn't even ask them to. And granted, I was not but it was a point of pride for me that other people recognized that I had a sense of style. I also was pretty shy in high school, didn't participate much in class, didn't audition for any school plays, even though I loved doing I just felt like really And so I felt like dressing I could make my mark in my environment. According to the fashion psychologist, Shakaila Forbes-Bell, &quot;We wanna stand out with our clothing because we receive external which can help build our own self-image.&quot; She explains to Harper's Bazaar, &quot;Being memorable and easily recognizable not only provides social benefits, it can also boost your confidence.&quot; Statistics say the same. In 2022, Business of Fashion found that aggregate spending on clothing slows down after the age of 34 and declines after the age of 44. And in the same report, they also cited a survey that revealed 89% of the 1,000 Gen Z participants rate fashion as important Once I started monetizing my videos, dressing a certain way of my personal brand building, which is a whole other issue I have. I had a friend once tell me that, &quot;You've made it if someone can craft a Halloween costume after you.&quot; As in to say, &quot;You've made it if you've that stands out in the culture.&quot; At first, I was like, &quot;Hell yeah!&quot; because one signature look means less consumption and waste. But the more I've been the more I question whether or not I should have given that hell yeah. Dan Schawbel, founder of &quot;Consistency of all kinds People who wear the same thing, and associate with the same people are more memorable than those who don't.&quot; So isn't a person striving trying to accomplish the same as a person who's striving for something new and interesting every day? In the sense that both people are looking for external validation based on the way that I mean, one is definitely more sustainable for the environment, but the point still stands. And listen, I'm sure there are so many exceptions to the rule, like not everyone is or the need to grow a business. And I'm sure there are found one thing that works for them and they love it. Like the green lady of Brooklyn to the beauty of chartreuse living. And it seems like But more or less, it's normal for people to especially if they do care about fashion. As Rosie Finley notes in her own research over the 2010 style blogosphere, &quot;Over years, bloggers' their influences and tastes changed and as they grew older. Often this would be gradual, a haircut, a movement away from a signature aesthetic and to something new.&quot; This is also a good quote &quot;Style blogs then become of the self in a particular moment, a lived lookbook of personal style, always in the process of becoming. One's identity is thus not but is a phenomenon that is constituted by a sustained repetition of acts.&quot; I've come to realize that doesn't come down to but the essence of how you wear something, which is usually rooted in For example, former president John F. Kennedy was known for being a style icon. But as Maria McKinney-Valentine explains in her essay &quot;Fashioning Identity&quot;, &quot;From a fashion perspective, because of his social standing, and what Time has called his cool factor.&quot; This is another element that I think is often missing in the &quot;Is it a fit or is she which prompts whether or not if it wasn't on a thin person's body. Usually the thin person wearing the outfit in question is also a celebrity, and therefore it's not only that they got the halo effect of being thin, it's also the halo effect Take Lily-Rose Depp. She's gorgeous. She's elusive. She's also a nepo baby, which carries its own Despite my comments about the idol, I do think she's a talented actress. I am excited for &quot;Nosferatu.&quot; Girls online also love her sense of style, which, if you look at it without knowing anything about her, it doesn't seem that noteworthy. Like, she wears a lot of basic tank tops, low-rise miniskirts, And there's this one memefied photo of her with her girlfriend Dani, who makes amazing music, and it's her wearing a trench buttoned up to the neck with Margiela And people were making fun of it, but I also do think there of awe that this look was just so her. Like, in all of Lily's street style pics, she seems to have just a evident in her posture and mannerisms, and I think that carries into any outfit. I think this is why those busted can actually be a sort of good starting point for some people, especially for people who don't really know anything about fashion, because it gives guidance would flatter your body type. Of course, I think the notion of what's flattering can be oppressive, and so I always advise to but knowing what silhouettes look or feel balanced on your body can absolutely help you feel more confident in your clothes. For example, I don't the Apple pear-shaped guideline stuff, but I do avoid some shapes, because I think they look bad on my body. For example, v-neck tops, halter tops, and knee-length skirts. You won't catch me in those. To go back to, like, what's like, I don't adhere to because for one thing, like, and usually the advice is to avoid puffy sleeves, because it makes you more top-heavy. But I love puffy sleeves, Similarly, Lily has a really long torso, and usually these guides would be like, &quot;Wear high-waisted skirts to shorten your torso for more balance.&quot; But she rocks low-waisted skirts, and so, again, I think it's just being But I think at the end of the day, the most important way to build confidence is by working on literally of the way that you look. - What's the best advice that That someone gave you? Oh, it's Sally Singer's advice. - Her advice is, if you're learn about everything except fashion. - Perfect. Okay, we're doing that. - Sally Singer's advice. That is the best advice. - Thank you. - Politics, art, painting, - To repeat the ever-iconic Iris Apfel from an interview she did in 2016, &quot;I think most people don't They feel secure if they or if it's the look that People agonize about It's unbelievable. They don't know what to and they're very unhappy. But you can't learn style. Style, I think, is in your DNA. You can learn how to be more fashionable. You can learn how to be better dressed. But I don't think you can learn style. I think that's something inherent. You have to know who you are first and then proceed from there, and that's a lot of work. Most people don't wanna do it. And if they don't wanna do it and they feel stressed by doing it, I always say it's better to And as It Girl Alexa Chung put it when commenting on her own style icons, &quot;Jane Birkin alongside Chloe Sevigny, Kate Moss, Anna Karina, Annie Hall, Debbie Harry, Patti Smith, and a constellation of other women I felt possessed a similar vibration helped galvanize the idea that good style is a byproduct of a (soft music) In the late 2000s and early 2010s, when Lady Gaga was first she was known for her - So right now I'm very obsessed with monsters and playgirls. - [Interviewer] Oh, can - No, I won't elaborate. I just told you. The dress that she wore to the that was made entirely out of raw beef even has its own Wikipedia page. She was so famous for that TMZ published paparazzi photos of her in workout clothes at the gym in 2010 with the headline, &quot;First time ever Lady Which is why it was a shock she aggressively pared the release of her album &quot;Joanne.&quot; Vogue reported at the time, &quot;Is there such thing as fashion fatigue? When you've seen it all what comes next?&quot; It's been a slow and steady sea change that has solidified over the past week where Gaga has eschewed pieces that were her signature and opted instead for, The Times UK reporter Jonathan Dean told Gaga directly in an interview that she was looking less &quot;To be frank, I would just prefer to go and talk about my music. That'd be great. It becomes about everything else, and that was what I once wanted, but if I wear a black t-shirt and black pants every day, people might listen to what I write.&quot; It seems to me that Lady Gaga where she felt that the costumes were starting to become like artifice and where authenticity became an ever-pressing priority for her. It's also worth pointing out that &quot;Joanne&quot; was a very personal album dedicated to her aunt who had passed away at the age of 19 from lupus. Dean reported, &quot;Gaga is 30 this year and wants to appeal to everyone. - Hello Mr. President. Hello Mr. President. - Specifically, those who thought loudmouth from snooty Manhattan would never write a song Even more specifically, this woman in middle America no makeup, and jewelry heirlooms from her family, a sweatshirt you buy at the drugstore, a kid in one hand, pinot grigio in the other, two kids running around, you don't know if she's married, but her eyes out because for her.&quot; In 2018, Gaga reflected on her old looks, telling Vogue the reason for her costumes in the first place. &quot;For me, fashion and art and music have always been a form of armor. I just kept creating more and more fantasies to escape into, new skins to shed. And every time I shed a skin, it was like taking a getting rid of, washing off, shedding all of the bad and Gaga still loves fashion. Like in the Vogue feature, she brings the interviewer filed with couture looks. She explains, &quot;I wear some of it, but I mostly collect to give to a museum one day. Because I just love these designers.&quot; She also still dresses up when the occasion calls for it. BuzzFeed posted a that read, &quot;Lady Gaga is receiving near-universal praise for dressing weird again.&quot; The headline refers to a the world premiere of her concert film, &quot;Gaga Chromatica Ball&quot;. It was a white dress with designed by Selva. I feel like reading about has resonated with me a lot, because it's a similar attitude I have towards fashion today. Things really started taking this voice class back in 2022. And my teacher looked me &quot;I needed to stop dressing up for class&quot;. There's a lot of connection between your voice and your confidence, and she felt that by dressing up, I was putting up a wall And even though I literally was only in this class for a semester, her words prompted me underdressing over a year later. I wouldn't say I'm anywhere Like, not saying that at all. But I feel like over the years, I've tried to invest my creative energy into other activities, like acting and writing, and it definitely helps that I have this really cool platform where so many people listen to me yap. Those have all made me feel like I don't need to prove every day that I'm an interesting person. So what that means is the occasions that I do feel inspired become more significant Also, to be clear, I'm speaking from my personal experience, which is heavily privileged, right? I live in an urban judged for the way that I look. Also, I think being upper middle class and Asian holds privilege in the sense that I'm treated at least in New York. Like, I don't have to look more put together to get basic is what I'm saying. So needless to say, I can't pretend to know but I think it's just why we dress the way we do because it can unveil so much about what our values are and For me, needing to dress up came from a place of needing external validation and wanting to be socially But I've realized that if is contingent on the way I present myself and not what I actually have then who wants to be Not me. (laughs) I also noticed this who are not in the fashion and the way that people is just so off-putting. Also, like, another memory that was just triggered from this, talking about this, I was eating at this restaurant called Betty in the Lower East Side. I was with my friend there, we were in the middle of dinner, and then this older woman comes in. I think she's probably in her 40s or 50s. And the restaurant is, like, empty. So she asked for a table. The server's like, &quot;You She's like, &quot;Okay, I don't care.&quot; And then he's like, &quot;What Which is at the front, which is facing the street. And she goes, &quot;Actually, I feel like I'm always getting judged for my outfit when I sit I don't know. So I think that, like, styling an outfit is and can be a really powerful form But what I have become is a bit jaded, maybe by virtue of working in fashion and by being in Manhattan all the time. Yeah, I've just become a little bit jaded by this idea that people in the industry expect you to dress a certain way, and that kind of, like, And it makes you feel like you in order to be liked by everyone else, which I think it's just I'm going to end the video with this one quote that I really love. It's actually a bastardized translation of a real Vincent van Gogh quote in a letter he wrote to his brother. The real quote is longer but for simplicity purposes, I'm quoting the translation here. &quot;If I'm worth anything later, For wheat is wheat, even if people think it is That's all. Thank you so much for I would love to hear in the comments what everyone's feeling whether or not you had an arc, or if your journey has I hope you have a lovely rest of your day, and I'll see you next time. Okay, bye. - [Narrator] It is by the awful that the smart woman learns to dress in a way that suits her personality.