[NOISE] Jack, we're delighted to see you here. You said you'd never write another book, &gt;&gt; Well, I went around the world for the a half years, talking to audiences like The first book was an autobiography. It was all about me. And this book is trying to codify some that I learned in business, in response to So this book, hopefully, is about you. And hopefully about audiences and some of the things that people have been by in picking a company to work for, &gt;&gt; The book's called Winning, so what is &gt;&gt; I think Winning is without question Clearly laying them out, and then going it with everything you've got, and getting &gt;&gt; So one of the things in the book that You say let me tell you about the biggest That in every culture, in every country, society, and social class there's this Why is that so important, why is it so &gt;&gt; I think you have to build an good in a small start-up, where people are other, they know what the mission is, they they reward the values, and they go after In a bureaucracy, it tends to get more and The pressure is from the side, from the People are afraid to speak out. And what it does, it slows you down. It, really puts gum in the years. And it really doesn't improve the People, I'm being told what they're doing well and how they can improve the process is not frequent enough we get into This morning I was in San Jose with about start up companies down there and some others, and I asked the 400 people how had straightforward relationships in their with their peers and with their I didn't get four hands. Four hands, that's frightening. It's sort of frightening that people are feel that people are laying it on straight What's your experience? &gt;&gt; I was lucky to work for a good company where over time we really But it wasnt that way when I first joined. &gt;&gt; It takes real time. &gt;&gt; it takes real leadership and &gt;&gt; And [UNKNOWN] reward that value. In the end, you get the behaviors you If you reward candor, if you reward If you, on the other hand, don't do that. You'll get close to the best behavior. &gt;&gt; You've also been outspoken, not only on That part of candor's to be honest with And, you're noted for this top 20, middle &gt;&gt; Noted is a kind word. [LAUGH] [NOISE]. &gt;&gt; Tell us a little bit more about shouldn't we be a little tougher on [NOISE]. &gt;&gt; Well I think you, I think you probably And you recognize who the top students are, and you recognize where the middle And you recognize the bottom. The thing that's crazy is, why is grading fourth grade through getting an MBA, but It's nuts. Why you would end up having this false don't tell people where they stand until So on my view is, take care of the top 20 and this isn't a permanent thing, it But take that top 20, make 'em feel loved. How you give them cash, give him rewards Do everything for him. That middle 70, show them what they need 20, and that bottom ten, tell them not that, that why they basically should move And don't do it in a guillotine job. Have a conversation that goes over a year Tell them they're in the bottom ten. Don't give em a raise of any kind. Don't give them 2 or 3%, that fake raise Cut off the, the salary issue and then ask And, let's say, over the next several work together to get you in the right That's so much better. In these crazy situations, companies in, What'll they do? They gotta cut costs. They, they gonna have a layoff. They walk into people and they say, look, got to cut you back, we've got to take you We need to cut costs now. And they say why us? And they say, but you weren't that good. And then they say, but we've been here 12 That's what happens in this false kindness People get misled. And then, if you do it too late in your maintain that not having the is the cruelest form of manager. The cruelest thing. If you have the responsibility, if you lead people, they should know where they As you go out from school here now, with when you go work with somebody, initially You'll be a leader. You'll be an integral contributor, staring and starting something up or doing But it'll be about you. The day you become a leader, managing five, eight, ten people, it becomes about And your future is tied to them. You no longer do the nitty gritty little You build them into great people. And you get a kick out of that, and then you get the benefits of their success as If you keep doing what you started doing your project rather than building your &gt;&gt; In the book, you use candor and and a few other things, mission and values and dignity as what you call first got to have this in a company to be Are you surprised at how few organizations &gt;&gt; Shocked. I mean it is, mission and values are the most gobbley gooked conversation I mean, a mission statement ought to be so It ought to exactly know where you're Define it clearly and go after it. Not have this mission of goodness and all these other words that get in our mission Make it very clear what you want to be. And then have the values, which I call Values in missions, values are behaviors, behaviors you want to achieve that And then you measure and reward as I said in the sole and the wallet, those And when people don't exhibit those and you finally have to part company with exhibit the behaviors and values you they went home to spend more time, You gotta say here's why these people They're good people, they're this and that One of the craziest things you see in by lawyers in some ways, where, where you And people say, well, we had to let so and They want to spend more time at home. You got to say, you got to hang them You've got to set the tone of your values if you're doing it right, you can't be And so I think that you set a mission, you the behaviors, you operate in an open takes time, build trust, transparent voice and dignity and you've got a &gt;&gt; You mentioned trust and I know in your on leadership and one of the key things Nobody gives it to you, you've gotta go Do you, I'd like to ask you a question today with compensation and Do you think it's possible that executives that it's really hard for them to win the If they don't think it's right or fair? &gt;&gt; We, we have to lay out clearly what the I mean, we have a free market system. We have capitalism. It has its flaws. There's no way to come to a perfect answer to every single, what the absolute salary But it ought to be pretty transparent. People ought to know what the the opportunities to grow on, and, and to And I don't think salary into a, into a I think if you, now if you got a jerk boss much my money and not building a team, of But if you're building a team together But the whole issue of salary and all these things that are big popular And, severance in particular is, is one And, the problem with severance is, we Arena here in this area, where she got $22 The problem is not Callie with her 22 The problem is the board at Hewlett did not, did not have a succession plan in So that when the existing CEO failed, and had to go out and get somebody, and they To get them. If they had that succession plan that of these problems come at the front end of They, they get written up and beat up on back end, but the problem came on, the Tyco for example, you probably all know and Krovloski and all the mess that they They didn't have a succession plan. So they went to Motorola to get the number Now Ed Breen is not gonna go to this tarnished place that's a disaster Well they had backup [UNKNOWN] up, to get, Ed Breen had had all the negotiating When, when we had our success session at Jeff ML, Bob Nardelli, who went to Home All very capable. All equally capable in, in many, many Jeff got the job. Bob goes to Home Depot. They didn't have a succession plan. Jim goes to 3M. They didn't have a succession plan. Jim and Bob, Jeff got a raise. Nice going, Jeff. Congratulations, you got a raise. [LAUGH] Jim and Bob, the trucks were [LAUGH] Cuz those two companies didn't So my argument is, succession plans are severance and these other [INAUDIBLE] &gt;&gt; Bob was here earlier in the year for a from the top, and he looked like he was [LAUGH] &gt;&gt; You say something in the book that, shock me, but it may shock a lot of And that is, you said, you know, the chief is at least, if not more important, than &gt;&gt; And I'll tell you, we're not even close [COUGH] most unfortunately, I was in, I talk with my wife Suzie, who, by the way, So I, I'm just a mouthpiece in this game. We were in Mexico for 5,000, 5,000 HR We asked, I asked a question to the Raise your hand if you're perceived by the have a seat at the table equal to the CFO. I didn't get 50 hands. Now if I asked that question at GE, there isn't one HR person that wouldn't raise Every one of them knows they're equal to or more important than somebody counting I always liked to use the, the analogy if football team, would you wanna hang around a team accountant, or the head of player If you wanted to build a great team. The accountant can't do a damn thing for much money you got left to offer to Barry But he can't do much else. The idea that CEOs hang around with the The guy with the green eye-shades is The HR person is the person that if, if they're not the, most companies may make Picnics and plant newspaper people and the But if they use them right and they build the, these jobs they'll be an enormous aid And so we, we use the line that great HR are really [INAUDIBLE] in listening to And so they're saying there's an enormous have these HR people be upgraded, be the the organization, by not having HR people that are in line jobs, that have a And, and [UNKNOWN] the reason why HR that HR is not received as a very Everybody thinks they're HR experts. How many of you don't think you're a [LAUGH] Okay? I mean, everyone thinks they are. Who, who needs a helper? Is the view. It's wacky you need somebody that's there a Sarbane's Oxley law that went in, that companies that aren't straight forward the appraisal process that have the same rigor around appraising and evaluating as they do around the financial statement. If I didn't have my way they'd have a human resource process to put discipline company then you get better [UNKNOWN] from &gt;&gt; As long as we're on finance. Another thing that goes on a lot in the finance industry is merger and You have a chapter on M and A and among say that cultural fit is more important &gt;&gt; Or certainly equal to. &gt;&gt; Or at least as important. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; And that it, but there is no cultural &gt;&gt; That's why I, that's what I found out. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] I mean, look I, I'm sure a lot of you are going to the Morgan Stanley thing, Goldman the great firms on Wall Street again but know because you're going there it's, you, And [LAUGH] it's an environment around system is really my bonus, my bonus, my And it's a whole different pattern of in a company that's trying to transfer a, a a, a, a desire of boundaryless people around the world to build leaders It's a whole different culture, but back We spent a lot of time going over some of One of the silly things that hap, well one of the, one of the big, big sense is And we're seeing deal heat right right Money is relatively inexpensive. Look at the the bidding for MCI. I mean, it might have been a good deal at I don't know how, other than, two how it can be a good deal at 9 and a half and, and now I don't know where it's, it's But as once you get a deal heat, all So we talk about the, the deadly sins of First one is [INAUDIBLE]. Young investment bankers like you will, some of the stupidest things in the world, And, and their challenge is to kick you [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; Not Stanford NBA? &gt;&gt; No, no. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; So and, and, and we talk a lot about and you, you have all the answers and you throw out all, all the knowledge that was Because the, the, the, the conqueror wins, person, the dumbest thing that quiet firm they're at, they pout about the deal Let me tell you, if you spend billions of to see the new people, and they're just giving you a sour face and a resistance People will, will keep positive buy in IQ a lot more than they'll keep resistors It's a crazy syndrome but it happens all That we sisters are not an attractive You've seen that in companies you've been So we got a chapter here in winning that, that, deals with all the personal Seven deadly sins and they, emanate in, &gt;&gt; You also have a chapter about a subject the hearts and minds of our students that And you say a great job can make your life The wrong job can drain the life right So I think that's [LAUGH] what people &gt;&gt; Page 257. [LAUGH] We have a grid for five, five One is people. When you look for a, for a job, be sure They laugh at the jokes you, you laugh at. They think the way you think. They have the same sensibilities. If you're a nerd, go hang out with nerds. [LAUGH] But don't end up confusing the Never have to put, put on a persona to be As far as opportunities are concerned, company where there're smarter people Where you can learn where you can grow. Don't go to a place where you're gonna be It doesn't do much work for you. Now, I'm, I'm all for, for, for startups And that may be right there, if you've got got the vision and you're going after it But if you're going to a company, that's Options are the third thing we talk about. If you're going to a company and you're not sure exactly what's right. I would go to account company that has a A brand counts. Whether it's Microsoft, J and J, GEE, you, Wells Fargo, you pick the company. You pick a company that has a brand your first job, your brand will be very And people, in the company screen we used to always want wanna hire people from They probably weren't any smarter than And the same thing's true at Microsoft. People around here wanna get a Microsoft And, and they probably have a pot full of But nevertheless, [LAUGH], it's, it's a it's, it's another one of those chits you you, you're gonna ask [INAUDIBLE] when, &gt;&gt; Whether he has a pot full of duds. &gt;&gt; Of duds. &gt;&gt; Yeah, right. [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; No, but have, but having options based The, the fourth one is ownership. Own the company you're going to. Don't take responsibility for the job, job Don't blame it on somebody else. My mother wanted me to always live here. I've got a spouse and I can't travel. If you're, if, if that's the case, make But don't then come home and kick the dog or punch the wall because that, that's And finally, work content. Be sure the work turns your crank. Don't go to the job for an extra $10 or Go to the job 'cuz the work turns your It really turns you on. Excites you every day. That's what you gotta work for. You can't go to one because, it's, well, a job but now as I look for another one. The money, the money's good I don't like I want some money for a while until I get I mean those things don't work. So I think this grid is worth, I, I gave my radiologists' doctor 'cuz I had some And, he gives me needles. With steroids to try and get the back to [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; So I gave him the page 257, and he's and he's givin' me the shots and he's [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; He said, I don't like any of these I don't like the people, I don't like the [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; You also have a chapter on a subject important to a lot of our students, and And you say, look, you can get it, but you &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think it's right out the crack You wanna be in a family friendly, But I do think the, the work life bad That's a recruiting tool. What it really is, is an old-fashioned You over deliver, you make your boss look You put chips in the bag. When you need flexibility, whether it be whether it be for a kid that, whatever it But it is a old fashioned chip system. And those that asize and those that And it's something that is clearly earned. And it's not something that is handed to We, we tell this story in the book of this a friend, a friend of ours was running a One of the women in the job had a second She had been in the company 8 years, she I, I wanna work at home on Fridays and and, come in the office for 3 days a week. Is that okay? And they said, absolutely you're doing a You're doing it fine and then they're, Immediately, down the hall prances this school, and he says, I'd like to get And, the boss said, why? He said I wanna practice, perfect my yoga And the boss, she, she said, no. No way. And he said, you mean to say you're making a judgement, and you're, you're not tell you that right now, to make a between motherhood is more valuable than You have no right to do that. And she said I'm not making that I'm making the judgement that you haven't been here, therefore, you don't get the flexibility, you're barely doing your job So, that's the way it's always going to It's, you deliver, you get flexibility. You, if every time your boss has a report, get it and you say, I can't be there, You've gotta find your systems that allow you to overdeliver, and then earn &gt;&gt; Jack, obviously, you've learned about I mean, you were a manager and you learned about leadership by taking on a management But since you've left that active life, just talking about it and going around to this do you think, have you learned more having to reflect on it, write books or &gt;&gt; Oh, well, I mean, you, this is a lot reflect back on, as to how it works, than Doing it is a bunch of chaotic steps. It now looks neat. [LAUGH] But I mean, doing it are a series This is codifying everything I know. I think I've, I've learned more in the years than I learned in the first 40 at &gt;&gt; Really? &gt;&gt; Just by understanding what I did, or How people responded. What worked and didn't work? I mean, when you're, when you're doing it, Shrapnel's coming from all sides. You're not thinking through a lot of these I think hopefully, this book will give I mean I, I'm a lot smarter writing it So I'm I'd say that I've learned a hell of &gt;&gt; Thank you very much for being here We really appreciate it. A question that we've been debating in the was actually raised by Obama and the duds &gt;&gt; Now that, don't overstate that case, may have a few duds in the middle of all We won't misquote you, Jeff. &gt;&gt; Just Kidding, just kidding. So one of the, the issues they recently this bill to, for gay rights, I guess in And so the question he raised, and I'd on, is how involved, or where do you draw corporation in social policy and what's corporations in social policy that may not &gt;&gt; You know in my view, and, and don't My view was clearly that you stayed out of That you didn't get involved in government GE state 18 miles is away from it during, The time I don't it's our business right? Our, our job is to be competitive, provide valued products and services that And create an environment where people can That was our job. And to be non-discriminatory. But not to go to tell, [UNKNOWN] involve ourselves in government pol, policy Social policy. [BLANK_AUDIO] &gt;&gt; Next. &gt;&gt; Yep, thaks. So here at the business school. We are given a lot of models and a lot of time thinking and talking about what we if we were in certain situations or with One of the things that still bothers me a that I'm hoping you can shed some light on when you're out working it's my, at least, that you're overwhelmed with information, In a, you know, these are the three things So pick a model to put it into. And if you can shed some light for us on you take maybe 1,000 pieces of valuable to make a decision as a manager, can apply the, you know, whatever model we &gt;&gt; Well I, let me just start out by to work will be the last time you'll think [LAUGH] Okay? [SOUND] [LAUGH] You will be involved in [COUGH] Well your, [COUGH] excuse me. Well your pattern of recognition will Where, where all your experiences will and build til where when you see Or you'll say for example, the real estate this and you'll drive into a town and And some cherubic kid will be in, not you, 5 years from now will be in pitching you one more reel, just one more building, and I've seen this before, these things don't There's way, there's o, over capacity now That'll be more valuable insight to you You'll say get out of here, we've done Let's get him on the down side when are high we can buy a third on the dollar. And, and so you'll give a whole series of life experiences where your pattern You'll meet people in the interviewing You'll do X % for 3 or 4, 4 years of You'll get better and better but you'll But you'll spot a phony better. You, you, you'll understand that degrees but the day after they show up degrees It's really what they can deliver. So all these things will come to you, from And I, as far as being over deluged, I, I I, I, I always found, you know, you're You're really always short of knowing the And you can't wait for all the data. I mean anybody can make the decision in So you have to go with your gut, based on the experience, life experiences you have The fire, all those things. &gt;&gt; Thanks. &gt;&gt; We have a question over here. Dr. Welch, what is most important to you &gt;&gt; [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; You realize Jack, that's a question we What's most, what matters most to you and &gt;&gt; I, I think it changes in time. If I were here at this point in time a job and paying off the loan would be [LAUGH] All right? [COUGH] at my stage in life, teaching, So teaching and learning is absolutely I love the learning process. I love the being a better family per, I, so it's not to give back here. I like gi, giving back. I teach principles in the, in the New York I was never gonna go teach in a city's when I was in my day job and today I do So and I think things change, I, I don't time I think at any one moment in time But as you go forward hopefully, things So, I, I don't have a particular thing now, other than learning and teaching, and [BLANK_AUDIO] &gt;&gt; Where's Derek? Should we admit him or not? [LAUGH] &gt;&gt; I had a question around, sort of, the ethical problems we've seen in a lot of &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; And my question for a senior executive is GE's ability to stay out of these you know, each executive reflecting on wanna make before they become into Or is it more about setting up systems and people around you to help you make the &gt;&gt; Clearly the latter. You couldn't have 350,000 people without And you don't have the perfect 350,000 But you have, you don't see old line Because they've done everything wrong over and there's a simple, when, when I joined 6 months I was there, I was quizzed fixing, cuz GE come off a price fixing So policies were in place, we'll never do think again, because we've all been In the 80s when, when I was CEO, and Cap the $400 hammer, and the, and the toilet And they had a big fraud waste and abuse We had time CAD mess. And some guys were, were putting projects on one thing, and versus another pro, Now in the organization. And we had a fine, and it was a big scene. We'll never have one of those again. I mean we may have one, but it won't get we got 18,000 policies and quizzes and So, process is what happened. If, if you go back to the Enron and the This is a classic case of what can go Enron, a good pipeline company, got energy point B, had good processes in place, but So they decide to go into trading and they with their suspenders and the whole and they go out and start trading First energy, then electrons, then And, and then, and then broadband. They start [UNKNOWN] but there was no There was no rules of the road. There was no processes. Arthur Anderson. Arthur Anderson used to be green eye shade They were a great accounting firm. There wasn't enough money in accounting. So they entered consulting in the 80s. And you're all familiar with, you know, But that was a piece of Arthur Anderson, They actually ended up in court in the 90s over dividing the profits between the Accounting and consulting. Now, when you've got that, that sense of, how can you have values and, and processes They were chasing the money. So, breakdowns come when massive cultural when there are no systems in place cuz have started, like WorldCom, from a motel Mississippi with a net of a bunch of small No integration, no processes. So the, the answer to your question is Companies have to test I mean in Gena for people have to pass to to the, before they It's all about integrity and violations So, company does spend a lot of time and [BLANK_AUDIO] &gt;&gt; We have a big queue here. Let's work it down a little bit. Next, from the left wing, here. &gt;&gt; Jack growing up as a kid, the big thing heard about GE was GE, we bring good Since you've left, the models changed to I guess my question to you is what does how do you see that fitting in with the &gt;&gt; Well I think that they, what they on my best understanding, they looked at And it looked like it was your father's And imagination at work, convinced some ad So, new, new team, new eyes, new slogan. Nothing wrong with that. That's a view that they have now of going And it's supposed to be a more exciting But that's, you know, we'll see. What, what, what really matters is, is the We've just had a great quarter, we've had I, and I don't think whether the slogan But I'm, you know, I'm totally supportive [BLANK_AUDIO] &gt;&gt; Thank you. You've referred several times today to rewards of the wallet and rewards of the I'm wondering if you could speak a bit about motivating people by giving them the combination of rewards that would work for &gt;&gt; Yeah. I would, [COUGH] here's one of the If, if, if you asked managers tomorrow, if a middle managers and job managers you, you asked the question, do you celebrate You would be shocked at how everyone will You know, it never happens. One of the things you can do is, when you For every little victory on the way to Excite people, give them better jobs. Send them off to training. Do things for them that aren't right on the button merger but they're And you gotta do that as a, but again, And so you've gotta have a combination of And you can't, and you can't, Investment But in most corporations, people try and And recognition, awards, patents, all that And I think that's the job of the manager. To make, to come up with that balance that feels right for your team that turns them But, go ahead, follow up. &gt;&gt; Thank you. And how can you figure out what's right each of us would have a different answer &gt;&gt; Because, 'cuz I can't give you the, the You know, your question just raised that Your job is to sense that remember, the you become a leader it, becomes about If it becomes about them, your job is to of water in one hand and a can of [LAUGH] And think of your team as seeds Now you'll up with some weeds. And you're gonna have to cut out some [LAUGH] But, that's your job. It's about building these people, you know they were dealing with me, they'd wanna And that's what you're gonna [LAUGH] wanna You're gonna try and do that with your And, and only you will know the change. Some people will be mo, mo, motivated by but you'll be the if you will, the orchestra conductor that will bring it all And I can't tell you what makes them what I know one thing. Money counts. [LAUGH] It's important. It's an important part of the mix. And people get all caught up too much in You can't leave that out. But I would err a little on the, on the &gt;&gt; Dr. Welsh, I've admired your managerial, So it's an honor to have you here. &gt;&gt; Thank you. &gt;&gt; Thank you. When you spoke about getting our, the us through your first point, which I to go somewhere where we feel comfortable, laugh at the same kinds of jokes that we My concern about that is that research we feel most comfortable around people who Be it in gender, or race, or nationality, How do we maintain comfort but also push from a diverse environment and you know, learning from people who are different &gt;&gt; It's a great question. I mean, not, but you wouldn't wanna go to I don't think you wanna be [UNKNOWN], you mirror on any, everyone you, you look at I think you do though, wanna be in a a story in the, in the book and I'll now We'd talk about this woman who went to for a job and she was looking at firms at the time, she was I think getting her MBA from the other school on the east And she showed up in this place, and she came to this one place, and the three waiting on the top of the stairs, and she walked in, and she fell and did a face [SOUND] Like that. And she said hi, I'm Gracie the ballerina and the three of 'em looked at her like What are you, weird? [LAUGH] At the end of the day, they gave an offer and another consulting firm gave, She was much more comfortable going to a a firm, with a line, which I think is Hi, I'm Grace, the ballet teacher, as she And they were quite serious and stiff And it didn't feel like a very good place Both consulting firms were great. Top three and why not go to the place you I don't think it re, it relates to, to a It's just sensibilities. If the sensibilities are the same and, likes to have fun and relax a lot, work And you go with a bunch of pompous stiffs, And, and they can be all different shapes, That isn't the issue. It's the sensibilities. [COUGH]. &gt;&gt; With so much external praise for your management style, how do you evaluate And what failures or shortcomings do you in your career and what have you done &gt;&gt; Yeah I was probably too quick triggered I probably hired people on some You know good looking and Stanford MBA, [LAUGH] And and that may or may not be any And so these the things that you learn. I I, at times in my career, I thought I And I made some bad acquisitions, because I could buy anything, it would all work I think you just, you constantly reinvent You know what you are when you, the first asked what do you wanna be, you And you're gonna get smarter as you go You're gonna learn so much. You're gonna laugh at how little you know [COUGH] And that's the way you gotta see It's okay. I know so much more about, how managers and, and what frustrates them, now, than I So I think you're gonna constantly be and evaluating and making mistakes, And people say, oh good, he's changed, oh The whole world's changed. I mean if you haven't, if you don't I'm not saying change every day, but you move from a learning experience to a new and behavior that, that you picked up &gt;&gt; You had mentioned the importance of in a company that what, that aims to be And you made an analogy with academic And it seems to me that the difference is be as competitive and cut throat as I want The only potential it has is for harm is that it might hurt me because I don't If I do that in a company setting because trying to get ahead it undermines your [CROSSTALK]. &gt;&gt; Your dead if you do that. In a company that's got an value you're, You're more dead there than you are in In school, you can do it and get grades and, and take a lousy personality and go In, in a company of peers will eat you That's what'll happen without behavior. So, the idea of differentiation causing a of teamwork is the silliest anti-argument And it's brought up all the time. How do you think teams win? Do you think the Yankees pay the second baseman the same as they pay Alex And yet as a team they win. The idea of, of output of high performers being able to work, immediate performers, If you set the behaviors you want, if you behavior, no sharing of ideas is, is a You get, you won't get it. If you don't allow it in you culture, Let's get back to values. You set the values and the behaviors. But now, let me let you finish your [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; As, as a manager, how do you keep track How do you know, which people are being throat, and which people are just doing &gt;&gt; You mean of all, all of your own &gt;&gt; All of your own people. &gt;&gt; You mean ten people, and you don't I mean, that's your job. I mean, that is fundamentally the job you If you got a horse's ass there, doing bad And you'd rather go on, you'll But that's why you're being paid they gave No seriously I mean that's really what I don't mean to be aggressive here but &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] I was hoping you could share some insight into how you manage your own Particularly when you were heading a large I'm sure everybody wants a piece of the CEO, everybody wants to talk to the &gt;&gt; You know, I, I knew what my job was. I really understood that my job was not a new comedy, build a jet engine, I build And within, it's an impossible job. But I knew my job was building people, And I came to work every day thinking And thinking about evaluations, when I with the union and talked with them about More to find out what the atmosphere in place was than to find out the specific, So, my job, if I, if we didn't build all have 35 or so, for, Fortune 500 CEOs and If we didn't do that, we would have Cuz my job was not coming up with a, comedy or a, an apprentice show, or any of My job was to get somebody to run that So my time, which I'll say, 65% to 75% on I have three things I had to do. I had to, pick people. I had to, allocate resources, based on the people were selling me, eyeball to And I had to transfer good ideas. Generic ideas across the business. That's all I did. I didn't have any pricing power. Any, design issues. Any of those things, I knew my job. And so I allocated most of my time to &gt;&gt; Thanks. Dr. Welsh, I have a question on the &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; specifically, the grading curve we And you mentioned earlier, that, spend a time just doing whatever to keep the top For the next middle 70% you kinda tell and the bottom 10% kinda help them out but What I struggle with that it seems to be a zero sum game the moment you put it in The 70, middle 70% cannot make it to the without someone in a top 20% falling out In terms of the actual application of this there, is it, does it work because GE is Because if you tried it to, to implement You may actually lose a lot of good &gt;&gt; Yeah, but, aren't, aren't you raiding &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Right. &gt;&gt; Tell me a better system to raise the Give me an alternative. This is one I got that I think is one of I don't say that it's the only one. It what I believe is better. Now you tell me a better one to get a &gt;&gt; I believe that the message is sending a But what I'm, what I'm uncomfortable with if they have improved in absolute terms, Is, is it not [INAUDIBLE] in, in practice? &gt;&gt; Oh, it's not, I mean, you're not, you're not, down there with a fine tooth This is all directional. But clearly you wanna get the, you don't It's like ha, ha, ha, having the bad egg You don't wanna spend your time trying to And, you wanna take great people and make the unbelievably great, that's what your If you waste time trying to get someone over the bottom ten thresholds, you'll be lot of energy on something that's not very productive, and they can and they'll do If you do it early enough in their career. So, so I just think it's the best way to I, I, but, I, I would never sit here in And you get it by saying, I don't like I've already gotten rid, rid of the weak That's not true because what'll happen is because you'll have a great team and if keep doing it, somebody else is gonna into and they're gonna say, what, and what is What is your name? Ron, Don. So they're gonna take Don. Don, Don got promoted. He went to another place. And then they come to Don's job and well, and they're gonna look at the They're gonna look at the people. And they're gonna say they are gonna do a They're gonna say, my God how did he keep So you're not doing anyone any favors fresh eyes will look at it differently And so I just think it's the best way to But I do not say it's the only way to I found it to be a clear-cut, it forced evaluations, it forced people to stop was transparent, and people knew they got one of the things that you'll find at a Somebody does a great job and they say let's give them something for doing that You have this incredible experience I, I don't wanna make the others feel bad. Well if you can't identify what they did great thing they did by rewarding them, he But if you can do it, you should do it and It doesn't mean the others can't get But this idea of leveling everything, it's companies that give 100 or 500 stock [INAUDIBLE] statement plan. It's like having a dental plan. I mean, what do you gain if everybody gets There, there's no evaluation. There's no differentiation. People, people know who's, who's ca, ca, And they know who is not carrying the I, i, in our company, for example, despite years, the top people thought we were 90 plus percent of the blind su, survey As we went down the organization, there massive complaint that we weren't tough The people closest to the work know who's And so that matters how when somebody late and they have to cover for them and So the idea of being rigorous is something that absolutely increases the moral of a It does not decrease the moral of the No one likes the company or a unit, that [UNKNOWN] along just think of the row Four on each side. Two aren't working on one side, what It goes right around in circles. And everyone in the organization knows Your job is to find out as much as they So, I, I like it. It's the best system I've ever found. We build great teams and the proof is the enormous number of leaders that we build I don't see another one, on that, on that &gt;&gt; Thank you. &gt;&gt; I think the one of your parts of legacy will be what you left behind and, Can you shed a little light in what went decision, when you were left with very &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's back to the question we got A feeling, a smell. Confirmation by a board that took seven A lot of times seeing a lot of different We couldn't have gone wrong on either one, Couldn't have gone wrong. And we made a call the best of our,, our ability, and so far it's making us look But, I don't have a specific, just a gut, feel, and so do they have a gut, and a But the other two, I mean somebody else, could have come in and picked any one of We couldn't have lost under any we spent all that time building that See, the interesting thing is, that was These companies didn't end up with no gotta go outside, they have failed in The board's failed, the CEO's failed. That's a big, massive failure. Getting your successor, for the last six But, i, it, there is no precise did he Bob Natelli who, who was here talking to had by far the best financial results in By far, not by a little bit. By far. And, and he he still has trouble. He even said it here. &gt;&gt; He, he clearly does. &gt;&gt; He still has trouble, and I say, why &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; I have the best numbers. And I said to him, I can't tell you why. [BLANK_AUDIO] [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; Thanks. &gt;&gt; One more, last question. &gt;&gt; Earlier this year we heard from three been very successful in their career and with us it was clear that they had to make serious family sacrifices along the way, And, so while the opportunities for maybe, there, it didn't appear that they took So I was wondering, from a relationship perspective whether you think, it's the responsibility to, to deal with that or &gt;&gt; I think this is an individual call, balance, your balance, might not look like one of the others looking at it, but I is something that each person has to come I don't think an organization can make a I just don't think so. I think you've got to decide what your What, what's important to you. And, and be comfortable with those This may be not politically correct. But the organization's job is to win. The organization, winning companies are Losing is of no value to anybody. If winning companies pay taxes they give GE, at 45,000 mentors teaching kids in schools, do you think those .coms The were hanging on for dear life. Finally selling the furniture. Okay? They, that does no good for anyone. So a companies job is to provide you a fair meritocracy, and give you a Your job is to choose your lifestyle what want how much of this you want how much of It is not the company the share owners job That's something you've gotta do. Now that may not be politically correct, And only winning companies count, and get you got any of it into it, that, that anything other than winning counts in Because they get job security. They get poised to get back. They get self-satisfying lives. People can choose balance, or not balance to win and create valued products and services that allow the institution to go Remember, companies are the only thing Successful companies. Government creates no revenues. They get it all from your taxes and companies taxes, and then they do good They defend us in war, they have judicial they do all those things, but they do it They only do it from successful companies. So successful companies are the engine of Government is the support to that. And the sa, and that's why a company's job successful people, but they've gotta much they're wanna give here, there, &gt;&gt; Jack, thanks so much for sharing your The book is winning. There'll be a book signing in upper &gt;&gt; And the money goes to charity. &gt;&gt; That's right. Please join me in thanking Jack? [SOUND]