Stay in here. Do you know the rules here? Arrange for help. Why are you crawling? Don't run. What are you going to do? How are you? Are you injured? I'm fine. Thank you . 21st Street is your home. 21st Street is your home. You also have an eight-year-old son. Listen, I will go out tomorrow. If you touch her again, you will never see your son again. Do you understand? What happened? We don't know what happened. But I think you should take her. What's wrong with your face when you see the doctor? Who hit you? Wait for me to go in. Wait for me to go in. I'll kill her. Just wait for you to go in. Who can you kill? How is my mother's health recently? My aunt's health is very good recently. It's just her brain. She should go to the hospital like that. My mother is gone. Le Ruonan came home with me. Didn't we agree not to box? Why didn't you listen to me and come here again? I just took a look. I didn't say I wanted to go to bed. We agreed to take a look. We agreed that we can only watch it but not upload it. Du Ruonan, why don't we tell you if you come back? Du Ruo promised not to fight, but you lied to me again. Look at these injuries on your body. Auntie will feel distressed when she sees them. Can we stop boxing in the future? This is not boxing. You are trying your best. Ah, the little money you make driving is enough. I can't make much money driving, but my life won't be in danger. If you keep fighting like this, you won't wait for us to return to the country. If you die here again, can you say something? auspicious Don't you like to hit me? As long as you don't engage in black boxing, you can hit me every day. Can you be serious? I'll forget it. I'll sell the car later and add the remaining deposit for our rental house to buy three plane tickets. It should be enough. I have to go back to my country and go back on my own. If I don't go back to my country, why are we staying here? I've been drifting for a year. If I stay here, at least I can still live. Either I'll go to jail or they'll beat me to death. I'm not afraid of death. I'm used to being in jail. What about my mother? What should she do? Why are you going? You wait for me. Is it delicious or not? Look at this can. When I was sick when I was a child, buy me a brand of can. Don't tell me. This Su Zijie is really quite capable. I dug it out for him in a Chinese supermarket in Thailand. I haven't eaten it for a long time. Isn't that Auntie peach delicious? Thank you Zijie. Mom, you really can think of a way. Don't be polite to him. This is the job he likes to do. Ruo Nan, look what I found. Tickets for the Ultimate Fighting Championship Tour will take you to watch the game later. Why don't you price it? It's hard to get these tickets now. The ticket prices are extremely high. I had a hard time asking for them. If you get the talent, can you spend the money in the right place and return it quickly? I didn't find the ticket for you just because you like this thing. Just treat it as accompanying me to see it, okay? Just go with Zijie. You said it was a waste to buy this ticket. Later, you eat this peach first and gag me without looking at it, but I will regret it. Come on, are you ready to eat it yourself? Ready to start. Sister, let's calm down. This is Kunming. There won't be any problems with the tower. Don't worry. Those people are all desperadoes. They have done this kind of thing a lot. Thank you, boss. Thank you, brother. Are you ready? Are you ready? What about the ransom? What if Quinta takes the money? What should I do if I swallow the ransom ? You don't have to worry. I opened an offshore account in your name and let the ransom be transferred to this account first. As soon as the ransom arrives, I will immediately transfer half to Kunta. As long as Kunta and they receive the money. Naturally, they will be released. Uncle , you still know about offshore accounts. Uncle, you also know about offshore accounts. Although I have been in prison for twenty years , I know everything I should. But why do you want to use my name to leave? What should I do if my offshore account is found? Don't worry about this. There is a relevant protection act over there. The agent will not disclose the account holder's information. If that's the case, why don't you open an offshore account in your own name? Because I must be the one to arrange the transfer. I can also transfer money, but you can't do it because you have to go to Thailand to deal face-to-face with Kunta. Uncle, according to you, isn't it over as long as the Ou family puts the money into this offshore account? Ou Changlin? I know people too well If he can't see Ouyang, he can't transfer such a large sum of money directly. Even if he wants to go to Thailand to deal with the Ou family in person, he can't let an outsider like me follow him. If you can't think of a way to go together, then Forget it, because it's too dangerous, and there's no one I can trust in it. I don't dare to do this. Ouyang, stop practicing. If you keep practicing like this, you'll lose your energy for the competition after a while. You'd better leave him alone. He can do whatever he wants. What to do? If he stops now, he will only become more nervous. Ouyang, you must not put so much pressure on yourself. No one requires you to beat him. Just treat it as a normal game and face it with a normal heart. This is not the place for you, Chinese beauty, I just came to say hello. This is not the place for a young man like you. You should go home and sleep with your girlfriend. You've had enough. If you don't leave, I'll call the staff to come. Okay, baby, I'm leaving now Girl, do you want to come to my room? Shut up, you're so perverted. Ouyang, I take back what I just said. No matter what method you use , you must win. You must win. Go away, you bastard. Be careful and come on. Are you ready? Are you ready? Start. Do n't jump around like a monkey. Fight me like a man. That guy is a little hung up. Why do I think foreigners are a little hung up? If he has good physical strength, it 's not impossible to win. Ouyang, you get up, you get up. Ouyang, don't worry, hold on to the pain. This is the Kimura Lock. It is a technique first used by fighting master Masahiko Kimura in 1955. It is also a submission technique that often appears in mixed martial arts competitions. It is most suitable for facing large opponents, but this The lock is not impossible to unlock. As long as the opponent rolls forward, he can immediately restore the reverse joint state. So the key to this trick is to tightly clamp his waist with your legs. It's that simple. It's that simple. Foul. He fouls. He fouls. I committed a foul. Do you understand? I deducted one point for a foul. Go back to your position. Ouyang, how about you? Ouyang, did he step on you just now? Bastard, I want to tear his mouth apart. Come back, your set is not good here. Ouyang, you How is your arm? Can you hold on? No problem. There are still two rounds left. You must hold on. Don't let yourself get hurt. Come on Ouyang, come on Ouyang Ouyang. Stand up, Ouyang Ouyang Ouyang Ouyang Stand up, Ouyang, how about Ouyang, let's stop fighting, okay? If you continue like this, you will be beaten to death. Why did you only use your right arm to hit your left hand? Why didn't you fight back? Your arm is dislocated. Help me, hurry up, help me, help me. If you connect the arm, I can still beat Lin Meiya. Can you do it? Ouyang, I believe you are here. Are you okay? Are you okay? There is not the last round left. You must win him. Of course, start locking him. Don't give up, come on, come on, hold on , Ouyang insists. What do I say? Foreigners are better in terms of strength. This guy's victory depends entirely on luck and perseverance, isn't it? If a man, do you think that woman looks the same as you? I see. Why are they not the same at all? No, there is nothing different except for the hair style. If you are a man, you will not have a long-lost twin sister who has the same breast. You have read too many novels. They are too similar. Don't move around. Right? What are we going to do later? Of course we go back to the hotel to rest. There is a second round match tomorrow. He has played like this and still has a second round match. Okay, forget about tomorrow's match. We still have one very important thing to do now. What's going on? Of course it's a victory celebration and a big meal. What's the matter? There are security guards who are quite strict. Men, women, men, men, go, go and get him. What are you looking at me for? I understand. What should I do now? Sit tight in your car Come on, what's going on ? Who are they? You two stay in the car for a moment. I'll go down and check on you. Be careful. Who are they? They're not annoying. I know you're just asking for money. I have a card here that contains quite a lot of money. There is no password for half a million dollars. Where can I take half a million dollars? Don't touch me. Don't touch me. Who are you? Let me go. What are you doing? Come on, don't lose me. Weiwei Weiwei, get off the car. Don't touch me, get off the car, do n't touch me, I won't go, Weiwei, don't touch me until I get off the car, let me go, let go, go, go, go, go, let me go, get down, don't touch me, let me down, help, help, shut up . Touch me, let me down, let me down, you put me down, let me go, let me go, don't move, let me go, don't touch me, why are you going ? I'm going to save people. No, we are just two people from such a big group, what can we do to save? No, sister, you are not going to call the police, are you? Listen to me, let's not care who these two groups are. Judging from their behavior, this must be A premeditated kidnapping case. Kidnapping is nothing more than asking for money. What if we don't call the police and they get ripped off? They won't. Look at these two gangs making such a big move. The kidnapped people must be very rich. As long as they are rich, they won't. Dissatisfied On the contrary, when you call the police, the police will have a chaotic fight and they will jump over the wall. This will make it easier to fight. Su Zijie, why are you so hesitant to leave? Ca n't you just leave by yourself? Sister, I beg you, can you do it? That woman just looks like you. Maybe it has nothing to do with you. It doesn't matter. We can't afford to lose our lives for them. Even if it doesn't matter, are we all Chinese ? Hey, I know what happened. My mother's illness has relapsed. Let's go back quickly. What should I do if something happens if my aunt is alone in the hospital? Let me go. Shut up . Let me go. Let me go. Don't touch you. Let me down. I don't want you to let me go. I'm leaving, Lin Meiya, please save me, lock me over there, don't move, let me go, be honest, Lin Meiya, Ouyang Ouyang, can you hear me? Lin Meiya, Ouyang, won't die. Drink, everyone drink. Why are they bringing him out? Stop, let those two women go. Give me the car keys. Come on, come on, you bastard, stop hitting me. I beg you, stop hitting him. Stop hitting him. He's dying. Stop those two. A woman gave me her car keys. Come on, those two women gave me her car keys. What are you looking at? It's so noisy. Let those two women give me their car keys. Come on, Ouyang, he's just fine for the time being. But It depends on your performance What are the requirements here? Twenty million dollars is fine, but you have to ensure the safety of three people. The money will arrive at ten o'clock tomorrow morning. I can't leave it at ten o'clock. Time is too tight. I don't have time to allocate funds. Three o'clock in the afternoon Yes, but I have a request. What is required for face-to-face trading? What is not allowed for face-to-face trading? You decide the location of the transaction. I will only send a few people to see you to transfer funds on the spot. That is your territory. We won't play any tricks. I request that we confirm whether my son is still alive during the transaction. Damn you guys, after you hijack Ouyang, use Ouyang's phone to call his father. According to Ou Changlin's character, he will definitely ask for a face-to-face transaction. I won't agree. No, you have to agree that you can increase the transaction amount to 30 million. I only want the 10 million we agreed on at the beginning. Why do you want to do this? I have a reason, and you can get an extra 10 million. This is good for both of us. It's good. Thirty million dollars. Thirty million dollars. The time for face-to-face transactions has not changed, and the location of the 30 million transaction has not changed. How can I contact you? Can I make this call? No, I will contact you. Who did it? Where is Ouyang now? Thank you, Dad, Xiaorui, for such a big deal. Tell me why you brought an outsider here. Don't be afraid. They just want a ransom. Ouyang will be fine. But what if something happens to him? Otherwise, let me drive it. You two don't need to fight no matter how you two usually fight. After all, he is your biological brother. At this time, having one more person will give you more strength. I will go back with you. Dad, he is not an outsider, he is my boyfriend. My only request for going to Thailand this time is to ensure the safety of the three of them. Nothing else matters. Chairman, you. Don't worry, I will do my best. The amount demanded by the other party is so huge. How can we raise the ransom in such a short time? Don't worry, I can pay half of it. Li Dong, the target of these kidnappers is Ouyang Weiwei, and he is completely implicated. Originally, I felt guilty, so please don't worry about this matter. I have already solved the ransom issue. Don't worry, Dad. Where did you get such a large amount of money? Now is not the time to explain this problem. Yilong, tomorrow. You took the earliest flight to Thailand in the morning. Can I go with him? I have to go to Ober. Listen to me, Ouyang and Meiya were planning to return from Paris because our Weiwei was too willful and went to Thailand to find her. he I entrusted Ouyang to bring Weiwei back, that's why something happened. I have an unshirkable responsibility in this matter, so I have to go. I know uncle Ou Changlin very well. If he couldn't see Ouyang, he would n't be able to bring such a big deal to Ouyang. If the money is transferred directly, then even if we are going to Thailand to do face-to-face transactions with the Ou family, it is impossible for an outsider like me to go with them. If you can't think of a way to go together, then forget it. Chairman, please let me go too. You don't have to go Let's talk about the matter between you and Xiao Rui later, Chairman, I can do whatever you want with Xiao Rui. But the situation in Thailand is unclear at the moment, and the other side may have strength due to their numbers. The more we have here, the more we can get. Chairman Strength, please believe me. I just want to do my best. Chairman, should we communicate this matter with the Embassy in Thailand and ask them to send local police to assist us? The other party has asked a very small number of us to participate in the police. If you do, it will alert the snake. My only request now is to ensure that the three of them can come back safely and not to cause any complications. There is also such a big accident. Should Lin Meiya's family tell him? I don't think so. If everything goes well, we can come back tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Tell him now. Her family has nothing but making him worry. Ouyang Ouyang Ouyang, stop shouting. If I hear you shouting again, they will wake up. You scared me to death. Are you okay ? What can happen to me? I'm so strong and I can withstand beatings like this. It's okay. Ouyang You must promise me that no matter what happens, you really can't be as impulsive as before. Let's be safe here, okay? If you die, how can I be so weak? I'm fine. Look, I can still dance. Okay. How about you hurry up and stop making trouble. If I die, will you be sad? If you die, I won't have the chance to say what I want to say to you. What do you want to say to me? Listen, if we can get out alive, I will tell you. Hello, I'm waiting for Weiwei Weiwei Don't be afraid Weiwei, what's wrong with you? What's wrong? Weiwei, she has a high fever. I guess it may be caused by excessive fright. Come on, our people are sick now and need water and medicine . Shut up, I'll beat you to death. What's wrong, boss? I know. Do you understand Chinese? She has a serious fever now. We need water and medicine. Ouyang's father has already sent the money. Can you give us some water and medicine? Bring us a bottle of water. Thank you, that's too much, Dad. Dad, Dad, Dad, you bastard, the user you dialed is currently unavailable. Please call again later. Please bear with me. We will be out soon. We will be fine. Believe me, how is Li Weiwei feeling better? Her fever is lower than before. I'll help her push this acupoint a few more times. It should fade away in a while . Lin Meiya didn't expect you to even know this. When I was young, my dad was also sick and sought medical treatment. Some Chinese medicine or Western medicine folk remedies. As long as it can cure my disease, he is willing to try it. This is pediatric massage, but it is also effective for adults. When I was a child, I had a fever, and my dad just massaged me like this a few times, and the fever went away. It was so miraculous that she felt better. Push it a little longer. You always think about others wholeheartedly like this. So who has thought about you? Aren't you thinking about me? I am thinking about you. To be honest, you are really good. I said before that you are missing a chord. I take back everything I said, in fact you are kind-hearted You have a sense of justice, you are optimistic, free and easy, exuding an irresistible vitality and tenacity. If it weren't for you, I would probably have messed up this press conference. When I looked at you desperately trying to make me change my mind, I It's really touching. I'm wondering what kind of power your body has that makes you work hard again and again without hesitation. Your influence on me is really great. I heard you right. Are you doing this? Praising me means praising you to me, and you are becoming more and more important to me. Suddenly I found the temptation to be careful, looking for answers like a drifting ship longing to dock. No matter how strong the wind and waves are, it can't stop me. I'm willing to give up everything in the past for you, but I can't shift your sight. Since when can I never be separated from the unemployed me? I'm not afraid of Uncle Li. He told me that if one day I lose my job, I can go to work for him. The salary and benefits are not worse than yours. I won't eat this broken apple. It will give me a headache. The flashy simplicity will fade away forever and forever. forever Lin Meiya, what are you doing? You woke up. How do you feel now? What's wrong with me? You have a fever and it's very serious. Let me try. It's you who has a fever. Why is your face so hot? Your face is so red. Meiya, are you okay? It's okay. I opened an offshore account in your name and let the ransom be transferred to this account first. As soon as the ransom arrives, I will immediately transfer half of it to Kunta. As long as Kunta and the others receive the money, they will naturally release people like you, Chen Zhe. It's not worthy of my daughter being lost in Thailand this time. Don't come back. If you want to blame, you can only blame yourself. If that's the case, why don't you open an offshore account in your own name? Because I have to be the one to arrange the transfer. I can do the transfer to my uncle. I can do it too. You can't do it because you have to go to Thailand to trade face-to-face with Kunta. Go to Thailand Ou Changlin. Back then, you exposed me for illegally raising funds and evading taxes. You made me count several crimes and punished me. I have been in prison for 19 years now. If I sacrifice your son's life, I've done my best, okay? No problem, how long do we have to wait? Let's go to the big city now. Let's go. Lin Meiya, how long have you been pressing for me like this? I 've been pressing the button all night, and there's no him. It's so exaggerated to say that Weiwei 's acupoint prescription is very effective in reducing fever. When I was a child, whenever I had a fever, my dad would push it on me a few times and the fever would go away. Then you should take a rest. My fever has gone away. That won't work I haven't finished pushing this time yet. Your fever this time is caused by the invasion of external evils caused by fright. But don't worry, Ouyang's father has already agreed with them that they will trade in person. It won't be long before we can go out. There is water to drink and a lot of delicious food to eat. Lin Meiya, thank you. Okay, stop talking now. You have to conserve your energy. I was so bad to you before, but you are still so nice to me. I'm sorry. Okay, Xiaoya, Xiaoya. Here, mom Xiaoya is here My mother always calls me Xiaoya when she gets sick. I always thought that she called me by the wrong name. But now it seems that she called me the wrong person. What you mean is that you have a twin sister named Xiaoya. Please wake up, world. How can there be such a coincidence? You have a twin sister who came to Thailand and happened to be seen by you. I said, eldest sister, there are too many people who look the same in this world, and maybe they have been let go by those people. Stop thinking about it, okay? I'm hungry. I said I'm hungry. I'll buy you something to eat. Who are you? What do you want to do? His name is Shachu. The man I beat to death yesterday. The man I beat to death yesterday is his biological brother. He is his biological brother. So He hates you now. He was killed by you. Why should he hate me ? Is this the right place? Why haven't they come yet? Don't worry. Don't touch them when they come later. Do you know what's going on? Hold on tight and send money immediately. Don't move What should I do if Ouyang and the others are not here? The money is here and can be transferred to you at any time. But I have to see the hostage. No, stop if you kill him, you won't get the money. Your people are safe. If the money arrives, I will put it here. It doesn't seem to be the same as our previous agreement. It's not according to the rules. There are still fifteen minutes before the transaction. At three o'clock, if you don't get the money, everyone will die. The three of you can't run away. In fact, everyone is just asking for money. Don't get excited. Let's move now. You can't transfer money now. You can't trust them. Are you crazy? Do we have a choice now? We don't have time. Stop fighting. What are you doing? Don't mess around. What do you want to do? Come out. What are you doing? Let me down. Let me down. Let me down. Let her go. Don't touch her, let go, go away, let go, let me go, let me go, let me go , help me, help me, don't mess around, let me go, please stop. Bastard, I think you and your brothers are just asking for money and it won't kill you, right? I say it again, I really brought the money and I can transfer it to you every minute. I can disappear, but I have to hear their voices. I want to make sure that every one of them is still alive, and every one of them is unharmed. Can you tell me? Damn it, go away, help me, let me go, sjv, are you okay? Are you okay? Come on. Enough hugs. No hugs enough. Get out of here quickly. Why does she look exactly like you? I don't know. Let 's get out of here quickly. I think something is wrong. Why did his phone call take so long? I don't think he will break up the ticket. I'm not sure yet. Logically speaking, they haven't received the money. No action should be taken. Stay calm and play it by ear. What's going on? Just answer the phone now. The boss has been rescued. The person you want is safe. Look, I said I want to hear their voices on the phone with my own ears. I recorded the video. I can't believe how fast it is to transfer money The only thing missing is the password. The password is speed. The password is not here. It's not here. It's not here . I don't know him. He's there. He's there. Give me the password. Quick, quick. We can't give him the password before we confirm that our people are safe. Tell him the password. If he doesn't, I'll kill you, then you'll shoot me. I'm just asking for money. Don't be so angry. After all, I haven't gotten the money yet, right? Transfer money quickly. I'm a contact. I'm a contact. Transfer money. Transfer money quickly. Transfer it to Jiang Yilong. Jiang Yilong, what do you think of him here? He has already entered the password and is about to confirm the hostage. Do n't move, you bastard. If anyone dares to move, your boss will get his head shot today. Chen Zhe put the computer away. If you don't want to die, let him. Your people spread out immediately, spread out, spread out, I can't believe we actually escaped. Is this considered a victory escape? Du Ruonan, why are you like this? You didn't even say a word to me when you came here. If I hadn't arrived in time, why don't you drive so nonsense? You're Du Ruonan. You know me. They're catching up. Hurry up. It's okay. The cockroaches here are Nei Rui 0 o. I hired him. You, why, if you die, all the money will be mine. It's impossible. My people will only give you half of your people. What should I do with your people? What should I do? 6 Hurry up. Hurry up. O Hurry up. Hurry up. It's already the fastest. The accelerator is turned all the way down. Otherwise, you come and catch up. Hurry up. Come on. Hurry up. Press the accelerator a little more. It's the fastest. Go faster. Go faster. Get down. Don't move. Don't move. Don't move. Don't move. Do n't move. Don't move. Don't move. Raise your hands. Huangmao, come here. I'll drive . What? I'll drive. Come on. Don't chase. Be careful. Ouyang helps. Help. Grab hold. What are you going to do? How are you? Are you okay? Are you okay? Are you okay? Let's go. Are you okay? How did you escape? Let's talk about it later. We'll wait for you. Thank you so much. Thanks to you, nothing happened this time. We should protect the citizens of our country. The safety of our country is our responsibility. Fortunately, you called us before to inform us. The Consul General takes this matter very seriously. The Consul General takes this matter very seriously and directly contacted Thailand. Fortunately, nothing happened. How are you ? It's okay. It's just a flesh wound. How are you? No, I'm fine. You're fine. Fortunately, the money hasn't been transferred out. We can be considered a success. I'll report that my family is safe. Xiao Jiang, how is the situation? Please tell me. Don't worry. Everyone is safe, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, please ask. Hey, Jiang Yilong, Chen Zhe, are you okay? He should be okay, Qi Yun, my son is safe, okay, don't worry, it scared me to death. Okay, come on, eat quickly. Give me a pair of chopsticks. You didn't answer me just now. Before you met me, I was kidnapped by you. Ouyang saved me. Do you really owe them a lot of money? Lin Meiya, do you think this is important? Now everyone. What I want to know most is why you two look exactly the same, right ? Li Weiwei, Lin Meiya, who are you? I'm back, mom, mom, I, I, I, Xiaoya, Xiaoya, Xiaoya, mom, I'm sorry, Xiaoya, Xiaoya, okay, okay. Mom, I'm sorry for you. Mom, I'm sorry for your mother . Xiao Xiaoya is here. Xiaoya is here. Xiaoya is here. Xiaoya is there. Mom, Xiaoya is here. Xiao Xiaoya. Do you have a mother? Those who tied me up before asked me to give it to me. Mom is calling. I grew up with my mother. Her name is Du Xiaoyue. Do you have any relatives? My father's name is Lin Zhiguo, but he is not my biological father. I was adopted by him in an orphanage when I was very young. You were in the orphanage when you were a child. Stayed in IA/ POLICF Brother, I'm sorry. I shouldn't have sneaked out behind your back. It's all my fault. Okay, why are you talking about this now? Just let everyone be fine. Fortunately, I won't be willful next time. Is Li Dong seriously injured? You can't die from your injuries. I asked you to come here and get hurt because of me. I'm sorry. Brother, are you allowed to tell me this? It's my responsibility to force you to come here. When you get back, I can punish you however you want. convenient Why is he here? Ask him yourself. It's okay. Ouyang, you can go back to the hotel now. I have to stay and cooperate with the Thai police to handle some things. Okay, let 's go.