The average car price is over the past five years. Basic automobile is $50,000 or Monthly payments are also There are plenty of cars and than $100K. A record number of owners are their loans than their Even so, automakers have Margins are slim and costs Chinese cars are cheap, but tariffs. Insiders say U.S. carmakers can't depend on They'll have to cut costs and Even without government big advantages. We tried to lay out that it's you actually have to make organization, culture and that. Americans are paying more for were a few years ago. But car prices have outpaced They're off pandemic era What do you think about how last few years? They're astronomical. But I mean, the technology Technology isn't free. I shopped around quite a bit Highlander, and the prices not all electric. And I wanted to move to friendly. So I went with the Oh my goodness. I was trying using the prices. That I had from ten years ago, Yeah, it wasn't the same. So what does the industry According to the center for cost about $25,000. The average US household transportation. That's maintenance and so on. So about 51% of the afford a loan on a $25,000 months. If you extend the percentage goes up from very few cars at that price. Prior to 2018, cars that sold about a fifth of the market. Since then, they have all but A few models might start September 2024 had an average Only six are below $25,000. Meanwhile, models and sales soared. You're selling directly to and whistles, and so there targeting of people who would This might be a strategic Here's how they got so Factor one: the continued vehicle. They went from about 50% in 2019. Americans just love big cars. When Ford released the now EcoSport SUV, it said the higher than Ford would get the SUV and the car shared Second factor: priorities The legacy automakers in the about we are going for volume, and so we are going gives us a bigger margin, and than they followed in the GM has become known for this current CEO Mary Barra. Fiat Chrysler, now cutting high volume, but low In 2023, profits at GM and least a decade, and Many global automakers have General Motors, for example, sitting on their board, and of dollars worth of stock. You know, Mary Barra could be And so it's forces a more she might want. But automakers have had to that they weren't certain software defined vehicles, assistance, and autonomous That money has to come from The one meaningful way to make financial standpoint is to internal combustion engine manage those profits while vehicles. And so you have to To generate the free cash ever hungry side of the The trouble for automakers the profitable compared with vehicle's price goes to the Tough. This smart can only be About 20% to 25% goes to That leaves a 5% to 10% Third factor: the coronavirus shutdowns, supply chain constraints tightened supply. Dealers raised prices. Then automakers did. Affordability plummeted. Remember, the story has been months. You either cut price And they've decided they're But profits come at the cost customers. Automakers meet with their basis, and particularly they specific gathering. And the news that came out of dealerships were saying, that we can profitably sell I guess that's the message walking in the door. So the question is, how do prices down? There is some Evs are expected to get Battery costs are falling With big drops to come. New, stronger forms of steel less. The simple skateboard easily adapted to vehicles of costs. The Chevrolet Equinox, about $300,000 less than the priciest. But they use the New manufacturing methods can Tesla said its proposed but method can cut costs in half that much. Automakers might Two companies can share similar cars with different One can contract with another For a country where the first It could be a bid setting up partnership with one of the then they sell vehicles here of of the final assembly On the policy side, helper another necessary condition predictability around public private partnerships. US rules change frequently, companies to plan. In contrast, when China went the policy. The country has policies in the US. The cheap lithium iron contributed to China's created in the US by a Energy grant. But then gas was really cheap. Policies were not They went bankrupt. They were the Chinese. I mean, not to They figured out how to scale you know, based on American The Alliance for American by domestic manufacturers and is in favor of tariffs and boost the domestic industry. The group wants to keep many place. We're trying to gradually make energy run vehicles, whether sorts of technologies as offset some of the capital that. And there's a long United States. Policies can only help so At the end of the day, it's business. It's the calls, as we all know. And so you can have some subsidies, like you get with the certain mix up to a But these things cost a lot know. This is the challenge Chinese Critics say Chinese cars are subsidized by the government. There are other factors. Wages are really low. There's a fair amount of part of the battery supply There's also a lot less considerations in terms of battery operation, which uses That said, the best of the cost advantage over legacy subsidies or government help. Mark Wakefield, a managing says to compete with that, change the way they operate. From an automaker's on that protectionism. You have to get ready to This is the hard part. First, Chinese companies are Established automakers with very limited software Truly software defined ones where hardware and independently, more like It's fundamentally different Chinese firms are also fast. They develop things quickly. They scale things quickly, government, suppliers or They take out a lot of time in They're much more willing to They don't have the same sort and what to make. Chinese firms rely heavily on rather than the physical This cuts months off millions of dollars from They have a shorter time to Non-chinese brands take about model. Legacy Chinese brands New energy vehicle brands Deadlines are hard, even if vehicle. These companies have Most of them do not allow this do, and they're willing to and suffer the consequences alternative to be a If I take 40 months to make competitive vehicle. They're also willing to endure to scale. There are two help spread costs, but also a painful early period. This desire for short term these activist investors, China has taken large losses their playbook. They do this There's very little who says they make losses on a whole new propulsion And so they're questioned And so they're thinking of it And so it's in that sense $60,000 vehicle or a $70,000 to now suddenly announcing $25,000, you get doubly going to be making even more They also take a first willingness to question some or practices. Tesla has been market, for example, allowing core safety and powertrain like brakes and motors. For they did that, and even they did it, no other auto Vertical integration--doing a than outsourcing to suppliers advantage for companies like Tesla. The United States is supply chain. In terms of trailing China to surpassing Implementing these changes China's regulatory is totally different from the that 30% cost gap might It feels like you can't do pieces and evolution, and you people, hey, behave You know, you need the organizational structure and different power centers and going to consider to be