- [Narrator] On a crisp IRS criminal investigators surrounded this million in the quaint town of During the raid, they find carefully in a bathroom closet Inside, a single board computer containing $3.4 billion in Bitcoin. Jimmy Zhong had acquired but the person he took even sent more coins as a reward. There was no calls for justice, so why were they raiding his After years of living the high life, mostly spending his millions Jimmy had made one single mistake leading Uncle Sam directly to his fortune. This is the story of Jimmy Zhong and how he should have got away. Jimmy was never the cool kid in school. As an Asian, growing up in Cobb County, he was a little out of place. Kids bullied and brutalized him, quote, &quot;for being fat, ugly, and weird.&quot; He said the worst experience happened when he was pantsed in front of everybody at a football game. He felt humiliated, didn't And worse, his parents Two first generation they were trying to make His mom got a job as an overnight nurse and according to Jimmy, His father never found a job. He'd pick up anything cheap and and when he wasn't doing that, he would huddle away in the basement. Then come middle school, his parents got divorced and For a young kid struggling, not having a supportive Jimmy craved social acceptance. He had no friends. But in the midst of this turmoil, there was one place where Alone, upstairs in his room, the computer with its provided an escape. So Jimmy would boot that old And by middle school, he had taught himself a slew To quote Jimmy, &quot;The computer allowed me to fantasize &quot;about making up the And well little did Jimmy know back then, but soon this digital one of the world's richest You know, it was easiest to be the quiet, smart kid. Whenever his peers would he could just bury his nose in a book or a math problem to ignore them. Top of that, he was just damn smart. So in 2008, he graduated with a near perfect SAT score, earning himself the He was going to the University of Georgia to study computer science and he thought this would but they didn't even care. So at 18 years old, he packed up his bags never to speak with them again. Once on campus, it was a new beginning. Jimmy said, this is when, And there's one thing you He loves alcohol, but he had a problem. He didn't have a lot of money. That didn't matter though, because during his first year, shortly after Christmas break early 2009, an opportunity presented itself. While browsing a programming form, he saw a post about a new called Bitcoin. And Jimmy, with his knack for programming and keen sense for innovation was one of the earliest adopters, started mining coins on his laptop, would earn a couple hundred a day, but at the time Bitcoins Some guy had managed to sell but that wouldn't even So Jimmy turned off his till 2011 because whoa, all of a sudden they're worth $30 a coin. And of course Jimmy where did he store all those Bitcoins he mined two years ago? He can't find them. He lost them, has no idea where he Cue the start of a desperate Now 21 years old, he creates an account on Bitcoin Talk, his username referencing the car he always dreamed of having, thought it might impress the ladies. Curiously, Jimbo's first post See, it turns out, since every Bitcoin transaction on the blockchain, it's not as anonymous And mixing is a technique many transactions to make the for any would-be sleuths. And for some reason Jimmy This post is important, but we'll come back to it because for now he was making a little money. Sounded like a fairly for the time and well, He got into gambling. He was a huge fan of this but it closed down. and Jim-Jim being a talented 3 years into a six year decided to start his Between this website, which took a fee from users playing on it and him getting back into mining, he likely made a But better yet, he managed he mined in 2009. Though apparently, 5,000 remain lost forever due Maybe if someone talented in data recovery gets their hands on that thing, they'll have themselves a little windfall. Nevertheless, Bitcoins were and it seems he had more disposable income than he ever did before. So what's he do? He uses it to party. According to Jimmy, he started drinking every weekend, had numerous blackouts and (imitates sniffing) In fact, this was the start of Jimmy getting into that booger for a six year period. And that's partly because his drug habit was about to make him a billion dollars in a way that he never expected. While Jimmy was busy living on the weekend, a new website hosted on the dark net was growing in popularity, - [Reporter] They were listed It's unbelievable. - [Narrator] Any drug and you had to pay with Bitcoin. Being terminally online, Jimster hears about the and begins using the site Remember his earlier post about mixing, maybe he wanted to better However, after only a according to Jimmy, he decided to withdraw his I guess his local stuff was better, and in the process he accidentally double-clicked To a surprise, both he just got double the coins. Jimmy had just accidentally stumbled upon a massive coding flaw for over a year. This is a race condition attack and Jimmy's got fast fingers, wanted to stretch them out, see just how many withdrawals he can make. So he got to work. On September 19th, 2012, 22 years old, he creates a new account on the Silk Road called The Tormentor, then spammed that mouse button, makes five withdrawals in the same second, resulting in net gain of 2,000 coins. Later that day, he does it again, makes 3,000 coins in total then worth $30,000, Jimmy's over the moon. That's tuition. But this wasn't an infinite money glitch. I mean the Bitcoins were See, silk Road implemented that was meant to keep when making payments. Whenever you made a deposit it was combined with a then mixed around a little bit. This was meant to make it to follow the money back Nevertheless, Jimmy wanted to he could get from Silk Road, so he turned into the exact Silk Road system was attempting to prevent in the first place. And amazingly, he posted Someone had made a the largest Bitcoin address in existence holding just shy of 500,000 coins, at the time worth about $5 million and they want to know Now, a lot of people were but Jimmy knew. Check it out. He writes, &quot;I've been &quot;it does absolutely &quot;that you're using Silk Road.&quot; Links his findings on a &quot;It looks like they're &quot;in and out every day or two.&quot; Jimmy knew if he sat as soon as they put those he could take them all. He made this post on using a total of nine accounts Jimmy did exactly that. At the time, these coins but this wouldn't go unnoticed. The Silk Road made money In total it made 614,000 coins, but Jimmy had just So just a few days after taking them, the owner, Dread Pirate on one of the accounts, but He didn't demand or try to threaten Jimmy into sending the coins back. He simply asked how the exploit was done and when Jimmy told him, apparently Pirate even sent So Jim Jam 22 with a drinking, now had nearly a million Jimmy puts 40,000 coins into one wallet and 10,000 into another then does absolutely nothing with them. It's hard to imagine what at this time, but he's showing That said, poor socially repressed, Jimmy had to brag about this So in November, 2012, two he creates a new account on Bitcoin Talk using the handle Loaded. And not only would this but also perhaps his first mistake. On his profile, he writes, &quot;Bitcoin multimillionaire, as a sign message using The sign message is And all he does is ship posts larping as some big time Check this out. In one post he writes that he has a large new client incoming and he's now managing In another he's bragging that he's responsible for because he's selling so And even saying more ridiculous stuff like he flies to China by so he can buy Bitcoin for a cheaper price in over-the-table I mean, come on, this guy says he had in a five-star Chinese hotel, so he is not pooping into the floor ones that are so common over &quot;last time he made a mess.&quot; It's like Jimmy was either starting a fake wealth manager and start a Ponzi scheme I think he got some sort of He liked to play the big shot, wanted people to see him as successful. He had never omit publicly to but this wasn't an attempt The smart thing to do would've been to remain quiet altogether. And by late 2013, that was becoming more true than ever. Late October, 2013, Silk Road They seized 170,000 Bitcoin from Silk Road's founder Ross Ulbricht, a far cry from the 614,000 and they wanted the rest. Ross is on record saying the were reinvested back into the marketplace, but there's always been suspicions about the true whereabouts of the coins. Worse, during the bust, the Feds got a copy of which recorded all user activity, deposits, withdrawals, you name it. Within that database was clear and if they knew to look at it, well, they could easily to see the wallets where And if he sent any to an well, they could subpoena the exchange and get Jimmy's identity. All of a sudden the stolen and Jimmy was gonna have to be very smart with what he did with them Come 2014, Jimmy graduates Out of college and Bitcoin going for just over $500 per coin, he's now worth 30 million bucks and will never have to work again if he plays his cards right. So bored, he starts warming gets that Mercedes-Benz and buys a modest home in Athens, Georgia. You can see his car Georgia Bulldog signage on the house, which was his university sports team and he was a big fan of them, but most of all Jimmy wanted He's taking trips to Miami, paying for all his friends to come and even giving them Besides a brief stint during the summer of This was entirely funded As Bitcoins went up in price, he even lamented on Bitcoin Talk that he shouldn't have cost him over 1,000 coins at the time and now would've only been around 300. He even regretted how many This didn't stop him from drinking though. As the years went on and Jimmy fell deeper into his post on Bitcoin Talk slowed down. Often only returning the or doing something a little harder. Sometimes he would even make and then go talk to himself It was all very strange, This guy is joking that the recently because Loaded was arrested. He jokes back, &quot;If I ever get that sloppy, &quot;lock me up and throw the keys away.&quot; If only the person who posted this knew the truth of how close they were. And I'm not talking about the time in 2016 when Jimmy got arrested after an off-duty cop on a key chain into a bag of white powder. True story by the way. He got a year of probation and the charges were later expunged. I mean, like, you think selling Bitcoin to buy a house in cash might with the IRS, but no, Jimmy always paid his tax on sold coins. He indeed wasn't getting sloppy. Top of that, all this was funded entirely by his legally obtained coins. Five years on since the hacking, he hadn't touched any of it. Kind of amazing. Jimmy had held 50,000 coins through every major bear and bull market. He had watched as one day they were worth tens of millions of dollars only to drop and lose millions the next. Through it all, he never sold. He had just posted pictures of balls and say the only thing watching these crazy This was all about to change Jimmy would make a post on Loaded that would make him famous on Bitcoin Talk and get him a little more Bitcoin gained a ton of ending the year just shy but this was causing problems. Bitcoin's protocol can only process a handful of transactions per second, and already they were under the mounting usage. If Bitcoin was the ever go mainstream, it would need to handle every second with cheap fees. By 2017, the Bitcoin over how to address the This led to the idea of Bitcoin Cash, which would be capable of but despite having Bitcoin in the name, it would be an entirely new coin. To try and ease the transition for every Bitcoin someone already owned, they would get the equivalent Jimmy was not going to not but also now another 50,000 The thing is not everyone There was two distinct camps. Those who continued to support Bitcoin and believe this new essentially altcoin would never gain traction. And then there was those was destined to fail because and Bitcoin Cash would Jimmy was the former. So on March 21st, 2017, five months before Bitcoin Jimmy made his most He tags Roger Ver. This guy's an early adopter and investor into many Bitcoin companies of the move to Bitcoin Cash. And Jim Jam basically told Roger to put his money where his mouth was, proposed a one-to-one trade, Roger's Bitcoin for his Bitcoin Cash. At the time, this is a $60 million People are captivated by it This is the Bitcoin forum after all, there's not a lot of People are really roasting Roger saying he needs to agree to this trade, otherwise it's calling his bluff, would mean he doesn't actually The news of this trade Nobody thought he would accept. To everyone's surprise, he seems to, but he wants 48 hours Two days later, Jimmy makes saying he has yet to see a contract, but this was the last Roger over the next few months would going to make numerous posts saying that he's tried to contact Loaded but received radio silence back. And so the deal never happened. Jimmy had disappeared. He even stopped posting on Now look, maybe Roger's confidence just scared Jimmy into backing down. He thought, &quot;Oh wow, maybe Bitcoin Cash &quot;will actually be a success &quot;and I shouldn't go Or maybe it's because somebody on Reddit traced his coins back to Silk Road. Check it out. It turns out after taking Jimmy had run them through a mixer. The problem with trying to tumble such a huge amount of coins is that no one on a mixing service is doing that at the same time, and so it becomes trivial You can just watch where get bounced around from and you know they all Worse in this case, the final destination, that 40,000 Bitcoin address, Jimmy had signed on his Loaded profile. They knew that these coins belonged to him and they very clearly traced And what a shame for Jimmy because two months the hard fork of Bitcoin Cash happens and it's not nearly as Despite Bitcoin's challenges, it goes on its biggest bull run yet, peaking at $20,000 a coin, while Bitcoin Cash was worth By not taking this deal with Roger, Jimmy had now made a $973 million mistake. In fact, Jimmy, just days deposited his Bitcoin Cash selling them for money and then buying an These coins were only at the peak in 2017. A far cry from the additional But I mean, Jimmy now had which at the current prices were worth well over a so what's another billion? Best of all, Jimmy felt comfortable spending those 3,500 coins and so he embarks on a $16 million spree. If anyone tells you crime doesn't pay, I just want you to remember He's 28 and more than anything wanted to buy social acceptance. Guy got himself multiple Lamborghinis, a boat, a few jet skis, a motorcycle, spent hundreds of thousands private jets, hosting going to nightclubs, sporting events, you name it, and He's even giving out Bitcoins again. This time five USBs loaded with 50 coins, each one worth about a million bucks. It was pretty lucrative At one point, this mad lad to quote, &quot;have a case full He hoped this would impress a woman into having sexual relations with him. He'd later say that In fact, he had never slept with anyone except one time when he paid for it. Poor fella. This was all to the Not the sex stuff, the money you perverts. Clayton was interested in had become good friends with they teamed up to create a company. Jimmy was to fund the project, putting $9.5 million down to secure a $60 million loan. In case you're wondering, Clayton thought that Jimmy was just some sort of got in real early on Bitcoin. Which is true, he did get in really early, but it's not exactly the full story. Anyways, all of this getting him a little more So that briefcase full of cash Jimmy had, turns out someone had their eye on it. Late March, 2019, still living in his Jimmy reports to the police that his place was broken Told them he came home and found his rear The thief had taken that briefcase and Jimmy had spent almost half of it, so they contained about $400,000 in cash and a thumb drive with Yeah, there was probably a but he didn't tell police that. Said to the officer who stole all of this probably knew him because he had hidden the Yeah, police Lieutenant the cash was never recovered, nor was the suspect identified. But because of the amount it quote, &quot;raised flags with the IRS.&quot; Jimmy, Jimmy, Jimmy. Cue Trevor McAleenan, a focusing on cyber crime, digital assets and decentralized finance. This guy's entire job is with its quasi anonymous properties to the people spending it. These guys are basically FBI agents and you don't want to The thing is, these guys work in secrecy, sometimes for years, slowly building evidence to So Jimmy is none the wiser that everything he is doing But also the IRS has no idea that Jimmy was involved in the Silk Road heist. They're simply looking into to see if they're gotten because it's such a strange occurrence. And they're probably not and Jimmy's been extremely careful with never linking his Silk Road funds to his real identity, right? It probably didn't help almost immediately after the robbery, no longer feeling safe in his house, he purchased a million about an hour away in Gainesville. But that was just a bonus now if the IRS could bust him with something. The first thing they do is request from Jimmy's internet service provider, a history of web activity and They find from August 1st, 2016 until at least April 1st, 2021, he was assigned this one. This is like your online phone number. Everyone has a unique one, and when you do anything they see it, can trace you back to it. Whereas his ISP log showed He had been visiting an to liquidate Bitcoin. So the IRS sends Jimmy's and they get back all of the details. Turns out he registered and likewise, that exchange of everything Jimmy ever This was gonna be a problem. I'm surprised Jimmy hadn't been using a virtual private network. His ISP wouldn't have been able to see what websites he was visiting and the exchange wouldn't even know what his real IP address is. For example, had he used NordVPN, the sponsor of this video, Jimmy could have connected to any one of their hundreds of servers and made it look like he's Now, I'm not sure how Nord would like me relating I mean, they probably would if they came knocking, but they could have used it for a bunch of other legal stuff too. I'll give you one example. Since your ISP sees they'll commonly throttle of resource-intensive heck even like downloading switch on Nord, and all of a sudden your your ISP has no idea what you're doing, so they can't throttle it. I mean, they're trying to save bandwidth for other customers, but it's your darn money My ISP hates Steam in particular, so I stick it to them every chance I get by booting up Nord and having Jimmy could have used when traveling too. Sometimes companies want to depending where they think you're from, especially car rentals and hotels. No problem. Connect to a different country and boom, you're saving money. You can't put a price on privacy, but Nord does, and it's I promise you, you don't have Right now you can go to NordVPN.com/Crumb or use my link in the description to take advantage of a huge of a two year plan plus Then worst case, Ontario, you they've got a 30 day money back guarantee, so it's completely risk free. Thank you, NordVPN. So knowing the details of for USD, including the addresses involved, the IRS starts combing They love the blockchain. Think about it. It's a public ledger of every transaction that has ever taken place. They would love this sort of thing in their traditional investigations. The only problem is behind these addresses. But that has been largely solved by Bitcoin tracing companies. For example, in the case of Silk Road, every address known to is marked as such in the tracing software. And while, as we saw in 2017 on Reddit, Jimmy's coins led right back to that fact. If he ever sold any of he was screwed, but Jimmy He didn't sell any of He did, however, make a very The problem with crime is It only takes one slip up one time to get thrown in jail forever. And on September 9th, 2019, just months after calling police, Jimmy would make that mistake. He sold 118 Bitcoins on this exchange. Coins he mined himself, but there's a little quirk with Bitcoin. You can't send a partial amount. Each Bitcoin address is like a piggy bank that has to be smashed open Spend less than the whole and the leftovers have to be stored in a newly created piggy bank. This second piggy bank and Bitcoin system is called a change address. When you pay someone six six coins go to their four coins is stored at a new address, which your wallet For Jimmy, as part of his a change of approximately 0.077 Bitcoins was deposited into this address, a piggy bank that had been to receive the leftover coins from the one that had just been shattered. A piggy bank, which Trevor But this still did not link In fact, at this point, the IRS still had no idea Jimmy even had any involvement with the Silk Road. That was all about the change. November 24th, 2020, Jimmy was reorganizing his Silk Road funds into a different configuration, splitting the 10K Bitcoin 10 wallets containing 1,000 coins each. He still needed to fund into his real estate development company and it's likely he was Three weeks pass and he splits one of these thousand coin one containing 500 coins and But he makes an awful mistake. The change wallet from earlier is included in this transaction. Jimmy at the time may he just combined his legitimate funds associated with an exchange to his Silk Road funds, something he had diligently And of course, Trevor At first, he likely just thought he found Jimmy's hidden stash, but as he clicked further and further back in the transactions, the amount of coins just kept 2021 now, Bitcoins had Trevor had just uncovered and eventually just like the Redditor, Trevor got to the end of the transactions. To his shock, the funds all they had already flagged in their system, an address they had uncovered in 2013 when they took down Silk Road. This shock made the Was Jimmy some sort of drug kingpin, maybe an unknown co-founder of Silk Road or a friend of Ross Ulbricht. To figure out those details, they were gonna have to talk to him. Less than a year after law enforcement raid both his homes. Inside the lakeside mansion they find $700,000 in value at 174 Bitcoin. But the real find was This Cheetos popcorn tin holding all of Jimmy's Bitcoin. But despite arresting him his Bitcoins were safe, encrypted, only accessible and Jimmy had memorized it and for a while it looked like they It took six months of We can see the exact moment March 25th, 2020, five transfers are made to a government-controlled address, but what the hell were they His lawyers are arguing Remember, Ross had thanked him and is doing a double life sentence with no chance of parole. In fact, it would've been illegal for Jimmy to even return the coins. And looking at the case, old Uncle Sam is doing to claim they have a It's not even a case against Jimmy, it's a case against Ross. The main crux is that when the judge ruled all 9.9 million Bitcoin that ever passed through Silk Road are directly forfeitable of his crime, regardless if he personally So all 9.9 million Bitcoin that maybe some of which you own right now, the US government is arguing In total, the government got value at $3.4 billion during Amazingly, after nine years, he had only spent 1% of the coins, many of which were sold way Nevertheless, because it the government took every to make up for it, made him forfeit $42.7 million and legitimately obtained even liquidated his 80% share In court, he expressed shame and remorse. Told the judge, he always He said, &quot;I think I buried &quot;It made me feel important At 33 years old, the judge one year and one day in citing quote, &quot;the highly &quot;of the crime,&quot; and saying, &quot;While the victim in this case &quot;happened to be a criminal enterprise, &quot;the victim tomorrow could Jimmy said since his arrest, his two best friends both and sometimes he feels like is because he's broke. Worse, he's left with a from the Bitcoin liquidated &quot;He's sometimes wondered &quot;if he's going to be alone Since his arrest, he's worked This was the second largest seizure in the history of the The first, well, that's