Transcriber: Helen Chang &quot;I love mathematics&quot; (Laughter) is exactly what to say at a party if you want to spend sipping your drink alone in the least cool corner of the room. And that's because all the numbers, formulas, symbols, and calculations - the vast majority of us are outsiders, and that includes me. That's why today I want to share with you an outsider's perspective of mathematics - what I understand of it, from someone who's always And what I've discovered, as someone who went from being an outsider is that, surprisingly, we are all (Laughter) But back to me being an outsider. I know what you're thinking: &quot;Wait a second, Eddie. What would you know? You're a maths teacher. You went to a selective school. You wear glasses, and you're Asian.&quot; (Laughter) Firstly, that's racist. (Laughter) Secondly, that's wrong. When I was in school, my favorite subjects And this caused a lot of angst because my high school Your status in the school with which mathematics class There were eight classes. So if you were in maths 4, If you were in maths 1, Each year, our school entered the prestigious and would print out a list in order of our scores. Students who received were pinned up at the start far, far away from the dark where my name appeared. Maths was not really my thing. Stories, characters, narratives - And that's why I raised my sails and set course But a chance encounter altered my life forever. I was in line to enroll when I started the conversation He noticed that while my academic life I had actually attempted What he saw was not but that I had persevered with maths. And he knew something I didn't - that there was a critical shortage in Australian schools, a shortage that remains to this day. So he encouraged me to change Now, for me, becoming a teacher wasn't about my love It was about having a personal impact I'd seen firsthand at school what a lasting and positive difference I wanted to do that for someone, and it didn't matter to me If there was an acute need in mathematics, then it made sense for me to go there. As I studied my degree, though, I discovered that mathematics to what I'd originally thought. I'd made the same mistake that I'd made earlier in my life about music. Like a good migrant child, I dutifully learned (Laughter) My weekends were filled and memorizing every note in the piece, spring and winter. I lasted two years when my teacher told my parents, &quot;His fingers are too short. (Laughter) At seven years old, It was a dry, solitary, joyless exercise that I only engaged with It took me 11 years In year 12, I picked up a steel string acoustic guitar for the first time. I wanted to play it for church, and there was also a girl So I convinced my brother And slowly, but surely, my mind changed. I was engaged in a creative process. I was making music, and I was hooked. I started playing in a band, and I felt the delight as we brought our sounds together. I'd been surrounded by a musical ocean my entire life, and for the first time, I went through when it came to mathematics. I used to believe that maths was about to solve abstract problems But at university, I began to see and even beautiful, that it's not just about finding answers but also about learning to ask and that mathematics isn't but rather about forming so we can solve them It gradually dawned on me Mathematics is a sense it's a sense that allows us which would be otherwise intangible to us. You know, we talk about a sense of humor Mathematics is our sense for patterns, It's a whole new way to see the world. Now, I want to show you that I guarantee you've seen before but perhaps never really perceived. It's been hidden in plain sight This is a river delta. It's a beautiful piece of geometry. Now, when we hear the word geometry, most of us think of triangles and circles. But geometry is and this meeting of land and sea has created shapes It has a mathematically Every part of the river delta, with its twists and turns, is a microversion of the greater whole. So I want you to see But that's not all. I want you to compare this river delta with this amazing tree. It's a wonder in itself. But focus with me on the similarities What I want to know is why on earth should these shapes Why should they have anything in common? Things get even more perplexing it's not just water systems If you keep your eyes open, you'll see these same shapes Lightning bolts disappear so quickly that we seldom have the opportunity But their shape is so unmistakable that one can't help but be suspicious. And then there's the fact that every single person in this room Every cubic centimeter of your body is packed with blood vessels There's a mathematical reality that you share with winding rivers, towering trees, and raging storms. These shapes are examples as mathematicians. Fractals get their name from the same place it's a reference to the broken we find around us in nature. Now, once you have a sense for fractals, you really do start a head of broccoli, the leaves of a fern, even clouds in the sky. Like the other senses, our mathematical sense It's just like developing perfect pitch You can learn to perceive with time and the right guidance. Naturally, some people are born others are born with impairment. As you can see, I drew a short straw when it came to my eyesight. Without my glasses, everything is a blur. I've wrestled with this sense but I would never dream of saying, &quot;Well, seeing has always been I guess I'm just not (Laughter) Yet I meet people every day who feel it quite natural Now, I'm convinced we close ourselves off from a huge part Because all human beings We live in a patterned universe, a cosmos. That's what cosmos means - as opposed to chaos, It isn't just seeing patterns We love making patterns too. And the people who do this well We call them artists, musicians, sculptors, painters, cinematographers - they're all pattern creators. Music was once described as the joy that people feel (Laughter) Some of the most striking examples are in Islamic art and design. An aversion to depicting led to a rich history of intricate The aesthetic side brings us back to nature itself. For instance, flowers are a universal symbol of beauty. Every culture around the planet has regarded them as objects of wonder. And one aspect of their beauty is that they exhibit Flowers grow organically from a center that expands outwards and this creates what we call You can spin a flower around and around, and it still looks basically the same. But not all spirals are created equal. It all depends on the angle of rotation For instance, if we build a spiral we get a cross that is neither Huge parts of the flowers area Using an angle of 62 degrees is better like what we usually But it's still not great. There's still large parts of the area that are a poor use However, if we use 137.5 degrees, (Laughter) we get this beautiful pattern. It's astonishing, and it is exactly the kind of pattern the sunflower. Now, 137.5 degrees but it actually emerges that we call the &quot;golden ratio.&quot; The golden ratio is a mathematical reality that, like fractals, from the phalanges of your fingers That's why even at a party of 5000 people, I'm proud to declare, &quot;I love mathematics!&quot; (Cheers) (Applause)