Hello Health Champions. The Kidneys are rather the liver, the kidneys don't repair and regenerate understand a little bit about how the kidneys work good care of them and make them last as long as all the way through because the best foods to depending on what type of kidney problem you is pretty common. When you reach stage 3, meaning talk a lot about this, when that goes below 60 and if that lasts more than three months now about one in seven in the united states that's average crowd then it might be a whole lot more little vessels called microtubules and when they also what's causing blindness in diabetics so type 2 diabetes. The high blood sugar causes The second thing that damages these fine blood The higher pressure increases the friction and have kidney infections which is of course an and we also do damage with over-the-counter anti-inflammatory drugs and while there are other vast majority of kidney damage. And what of course what we talk about a lot on this channel insulin resistance is almost synonymous with type Type two diabetes is part of metabolic syndrome blood pressure goes away when people reduce their is very detrimental to your immune system so all the vast majority of kidney damage. Now we really because the foods are going to be different for how they name these because stage one of chronic early chronic kidney disease, right? But it actually and that is normal so in my mind that would be for some reason normal is called stage 1. Then when you've fallen below 90, but you're still above and the curious thing there is that now you kidney is not filtering optimally anymore and even though that's not very common. However if your eGFR is for example 77, like in this case, but you're not going to get a flag because you're 59 is normal even though you're at this point 3 is when you start to really have some trouble It's when you're between 30 and 60 and they've below 30 but above 15 and stage 5 is per minute. Now your kidneys are really shutting about some different foods relating to this but recommended foods for a kidney diet, they're between 15 and 60; stages 3a, 3b and stage 4. And we'll talk about the worst one first stage are filtering less than 15 milliliters per minute. interestingly the us has almost half of those 785 the U.S. has 4 % of the world's population 10 times the average rate. So that being a dietary problem. The fact that we spend done nothing to reduce these numbers, which again dollars that they call health care isn't health want to get healthy then you have to learn and not rely on the system to do that for you. And the stage five is that by the time you get there which is sort of a miracle. It's very nice that blood for you when your kidneys have given out. a pleasant lifestyle and the five-year survival who can live 20-30 years with dialysis, the life of people die within the first year. If you were you would expect to live to about 80 or 85. But life expectancy is about 64 years old. The other the life expectancy here the five year survival however, there's only about twenty percent who can every year for a kidney transplant but there's most of these people have to wait and get dialysis So why do people with kidney disease need to limit that it can't filter certain things adequately nitrogen, which is a waste product from protein So while the kidney normally does a fantastic job these substances when the kidney is damaged now it that we understand one of the myths regarding the damaged kidney can't filter certain things, from protein and water. They do damage. They injure jump to a conclusion and they say therefore the conclusion is that now we can prevent kidney we need protein to build tissue. A healthy kidney a mildly damaged kidney needs protein to repair minerals these are very very important that we these things a sick kidney you have to limit them give you an idea how silly this argument is. It's is bad because if you break a bone and you put you could from the pain but if you did then that therefore weight bearing is bad for bones. While weight bearing is what builds strong bones to early stages there is no major damage your they're absolutely normal stage two they're So should we restrict these items? Well, stage one; eat real, healthy food, then your body can regulate start looking at your blood work. Are your minerals up? And if they're not, then you're still doing fine has the resources to repair and replenish what it if you have some other problems then yes maybe is you want to understand that the problem is and the insulin clog up the kidneys, so with a low type low carb diet, you can stop putting the things That's the first key. Besides low carb you want to to rebuild your body including the kidneys. And rebuild the tissue so don't cut back too far and large amounts of protein produces a lot of to a kidney especially if it's having some trouble create a toxic load of nitrogen but if maybe restrict the protein a little bit but tissues. And then of course you still want to do your brain and your nervous system. It drives every from exercise. And you want to do some kind of pressure up relaxing and meditation reduces blood is damaging to the kidneys. By reducing stress and reduce the chances of a kidney infection. So case because now there is major damage. You do not be under the care of a medical doctor. This is an And you have to limit your sodium, potassium and But you even have to limit your water intake you can't even eliminate fluids properly. here because even though your kidneys are tough to get rid of you're losing protein and you called albumin. That's the main blood protein But you're losing albumin a few different ways. liver isn't super healthy either so very often Then if your kidneys are still producing any kidneys and the very process of dialysis actually So you're losing it three-way and this is causing some protein but if you also watch my previous to focus on the high quality proteins because the into fuel, into energy. You want the better the the protein that gets turned into tissue and if it The lower the quality of the protein like and create a lot of nitrogen waste. And this restriction diet is appropriate and this is stage is what we talked about the shaded area and now hope, but you can't burden the kidneys very much So in stage three and four you need to limit your limit your phosphorus to less than a thousand and between 60 and 80 grams depending on your body it is still filtered properly in this stage 3a because it is a very very valuable mineral and if you don't want to restrict it however once you watching it and you should limit it to below 3 000 you need to limit it below 2000 and why is this the body especially regarding the heart is very potassium can cause heart arrhythmias and in heart to stop so now that you understand those this out for a wide variety of foods but remember if you need to review the other stages then go they have some good cleansing properties their milligrams and sodium only one milligram and all might be actually large apple might be twice as early like in stage three and your kidney then you want to pass on this because if you have thing that you want to add. There are other things add the burden of sugar. One such example is bell levels as an apple but without all the sugar. Very lists are berries so my favorite is raspberries flavor and very low in sugar so these berries are and sodium but raspberries only have five grams of and phosphorous but also twice as high in sugar and bladder to help clear things out which is true many people who can consume cranberries without the apple if you have insulin resistance or in the first place so don't eat that unless you Cabbage is a great food very low in these and use cabbage and one of course is sauerkraut. Number potassium and keep in mind that these numbers that you could easily consume a few hundred grams you have to limit potassium. Green leaf lettuce items because their numbers are low to start with of lettuce. I mean 30, 40, 50 grams of lettuce is low in all these minerals but it's also low in acids which can help boost glutathione and boost here's an interesting one because egg whites minerals are low in the egg white and it has a you take out the yolk which they recommend you Now when you take the yolk out you're lowering utilized when you only eat the egg white so you're you're trying to avoid. So what I would suggest is restrict the phosphorus potassium sodium they say have to eat zero because everything has a little sure that the protein you eat counts that you possible building blocks for the amount of these you still have a kind of a budget of phosphorus course you can't have unlimited amount of limit these things. Same thing with meat and kidney diets but they're recommended that you but these are still some of your best choices some protein so when you do eat the protein so that your body gets the proper building blocks. items you're getting a lot of bang for your that are generally considered very cleansing Anti-inflammatory antibacterial etc we have garlic give you the quantities per 5 grams not 100 grams 100 grams of these if you tried they're pretty and as you can see even a teaspoon of turmeric not going to eat all that much. So this would be a help cleanse the body in small quantities. If you truly want to master health, by understanding how bell, and turn on all the notifications