On the 10th of October, 1957, a fire broke on the west coast of England. The flames billowing up into the atmosphere. It was, and accident... but at the time no residents and most of the details of the It would be years before the true extent of the Windscale was constructed on the site of a former though, this new facility would be nuclear material for use in bombs. As part of program. Although Britain had worked with America Nagasaki, once the Second World War was over secrets, leaving British politicians stung. develop nuclear weapons, both as a deterrent to stay on an even footing with America. Foreign that they simply had to have nuclear bombs, a plant designed to produce enough plutonium This production process would take place primarily Each pile consisted of a 2,000 tonne riddled with channels into which uranium fuel would react with one another, producing small As more rods were inserted rods already in the eventually dropping out the far end and falling one major issue, though: quite often the fuel rods landing with a bump on the floor instead. This was to suit up, approach the cooling channel, the water with shovels. This state of affairs concerns that workers had were swept aside. pressure from the government to deliver the Safety, in this climate, took a back seat to the reactor within Pile 1 began to register Operators attempted to dispel this heat through heating up the whole core and then letting controlled manner, rather than in an uncontrolled in the history of Windscale's existence, and had the Wigner release didn't have the desired effect. except for in one particular channel - 2053 - On the 8th of October the operators tried the at first - a relief for the operators, By the morning of the 10th of October rising once again. It was very clear that cooling fans to bring the temperature down, At the same time sensors in the chimney above escaping from the chimney. Suddenly, the truth broken open and were on fire within the rather than cooling the graphite core, were Workers began to troubleshoot with whatever scaffolding poles and attempted to use them to This didn't work: the cartridges were firmly some poles melted. Workers then tried to smother direct enough of it onto the fire. Water hoses since introducing water would generate hydrogen they took nonetheless. But, again, it just didn't well over 1,000 degrees centigrade or over In the end workers shut off the supply of oxygen this was a risky move, as it required shutting off made the temperature within the reactor tolerable The fire shrunk and eventually died. For days water just to be safe. A report on the incident the time, Harold Macmillan, ordered it to would make the public lose confidence in nuclear with America. The incident was hushed up. Any swept under the rug, and the fire was blamed on It was insisted that most of the radioactive was evacuated from the area surrounding Windscale was the disposal of hundreds of tonnes of The true extent of the damage would not We know now that a significant quantity released into the atmosphere by the fire, Iodine-131 was of particular concern it can be absorbed and stored in the While the board of inquiry (which met just insisted that the fire had caused no danger to While the impact of the Windscale fire is it's estimated that around 100 people prematurely because of exposure to radioactive This death toll might have been much worse were Jonathan Cockcroft. During construction he piles at Windscale. This was not a popular cost and cause a huge delay in the project, and on the project were adamant were unnecessary. insistence on installing filters that they took This mockery stopped immediately when the prevented around 95% of the radioactive material the reactor manager at the time, was another to bring the fire under control, something which inspect the fire not just once but multiple but remained dedicated to his duties. He even so that nobody could tell that he was over his His contribution was never officially recognized, the age of 90 after emigrating to Australia with Sellafield, and the site is now dedicated to the facilities left over from Britain's nuclear and the decommissioning work is painstaking. Decommissioning Authority does not expect the site The complexity of the site and the dangers There are around 1,000 buildings on site, In some cases, though, the radiation levels enter. For other buildings the records detailing Robots are used to survey and then to The material is then sealed within concrete blocks stacked in a warehouse and monitored constantly. has its own police force and fire service. Tather something goes wrong, Sellafield employs an alarm containment failure. Should it ever cease workers This intense, dangerous, painstaking Tens of thousands of workers from go before the danger of Windscale