If you're thinking about starting a business, don't quit your job until you have these five key prerequisites. So many individuals have a business on the side and they're looking to start a business. But it's really important that these five prerequisites are fulfilled so that you can quit your job safely and not put yourself and your family in financial ruin. And when I talk about financial ruin, it can. Sometimes it's quitting your job and going into a situation where you're in a business, working in your business, and you feel the unfulfillment feel the pressures and the anxiety of that. So in this video, I'm going to share with you the five prerequisites so that you can excel. If this is the choice that you're making. The first prerequisite to starting a business is your reason. And when I say your reason, I really am referring to what's the reason why you want to start a business? What's the reason why you want to quit your job? What's the reason why you want to make that leap and the reason is really important. So many entrepreneurs that I coach and that I consult with start a business because they originally wanted to escape from something. It could be escaping from a bad situation at work. It could be escaping from a manager that that was toxic. It could be escaping from feeling like they have a lack of control, a lack of visibility in their employment, their previous situation, their previous role. And so they want to escape. And the mindset is, I want to be my own boss. I want to make my own decisions. I want to have authority over my own schedule. And that reason is a reason of escape. Now, if escape is your reason, it's really important to be real and to be honest with yourself without judgment. If escape is your reason, what that does oftentimes is it puts you in this mindset of scarcity, and it really is. It puts your body and your physiology in a fight or flight situation, needing to escape from a bad situation And oftentimes when that happens and you start your business and you leave your role, what happens is that often entrepreneurs end up building a business that they don't really feel inspired by. They end up building systems and processes, or they end up working in their a business that they own that doesn't really light them on fire, that they really don't feel motivated by, and that fight or flight from the previous role that they escaped from continues in their day to day as an entrepreneur. So the reason is really important. And the other reason why your reason is important as a prerequisite is because your reason why you're quitting your job, your reason why you're starting a business that turns, that becomes your why. And as you know, Simon Sinek says, start with your why. If your why is not deep enough and I mean a mile deep, then how are you going to weather the storms when you start your business? You're going from one environment, which is a corporate workplace environment, into a completely different environment, which is a entrepreneurial environment. And those two environments require different things of you in order to succeed. And there's going to be winters either way. You stay in your current corporate environment. There are winters, there are seasons that are winters. There are seasons that are tough and challenging moments. You come into the business world and entrepreneurship. There are also winters in that. In those seasons, there are also challenges and storms to weather through. So then if you if your why is deep enough, then the why motivates you through the winters and through the storms. So if your reason becomes your why, that's why it's so important to have this prerequisite. What The reason becomes your why. And the third reason why the reason is important is because Robert Kiyosaki coined the Cashflow Quadrant, and the first quadrant of the cashflow is you work in a job like you have a job and chances are, perhaps you're watching this and you do have a job. You work for a company, you have a manager that you report to and you have a job. And so often when entrepreneurs make a decision or nine to fivers make a decision to become entrepreneurs to escape their company, they end up starting their own business. And then they've just given themselves a job. So they go from one quadrant of the cashflow quadrant, which is having a job, to the next quadrant in the cashflow Quadrant to owning their own job. And when you go from having a job to owning your job, it really is the grind and the hustle is still there. The exact grind and hustle that you wanted to escape from is still there the day to day. So this is why it's important to be very clear on your reason. Your reason not only becomes your motivator and your mile deep. Why? Your reason also helps you to become the person that makes a grounded, well-founded decision that is right for you, that is going to give you the outcome you truly desire for your life. And if the outcome that you truly desire for your life is fulfilling to you, it is authentic to you, then the escape from something that is toxic or something you perceive as negative isn't enough to pull you through. Are you getting this? So that is why the first prerequisite is your reason. The second prerequisite for quitting your job and starting a business is your reserves. What was the first one? The first one was your reason. The second one is your reserves. So what do I mean by your reserves? Your reserves is your financial runway. And this is really important because oftentimes I hear aspiring entrepreneurs who are deciding to leave their 9 to 5. They often tell me, you know, I want to quit my job and start a business, and I just want to grow my business so that it makes enough to cover my previous income. They tell me I just want to make enough to cover my income. Now let's talk about that. Let's say in your current role that you're working for in the company that you want to quit, let's say you are making $120,000 a year, right? Which means if that's your mindset, if that's your framework, I just want to start a business and make 120,000 revenue in my business. So then let's say you start a business and that's your goal. I just want to make 120 K in my business. And then I'm set. I'm satisfied. Right. That is what I hear so often. However, what's neglected from that framework and from that goal is the cost of success. What's the cost of success? When you start a business, there are costs to success. You want to succeed in your business. You want your business success to be sustainable. There are costs to that success and there are all these costs are hidden, right? Think about it. If you want to start a business, there are there are certain minimum monthly expenses to be able to get your business off the ground. And when your business starts to grow, maybe you want to hire new people. Maybe you need to build an infrastructure. Maybe you need to have some software subscriptions. Maybe you need to buy some equipment. Maybe you need to manage inventory. Maybe you need to hire some managers. All of these things are the hidden costs of success. There are costs to marketing. There are costs to advertise and get yourself out there. There are costs to maintain your living. There are costs to maintain your business. There are legal costs to registering it. There are accounting costs to be able to track your bookkeeping and your taxations at the end of the year. There are so many hidden costs to success and a lot of aspiring entrepreneurs don't think about it. They just want to make enough to cover their income. So this is really important. Understand your reserves. The first part of your reserves to really consider is how much of a financial runway do you have right now? Do you know what your reserve is? If you quit your job today and you know what your minimum expenses are to make a living, to provide for your family and yourself as well? What is it, month to month? If you quit your job today, how much time do you have left until your money runs out? That's your runway. And when it comes to starting a business, if you quit your job, given that runway that that financial reserve that you have, how feasible is it for you to be able to get your business up and running in such a way that it doesn't burn you out, that it doesn't cause you to give up, that it doesn't cause you so much pressure and noise that it affects your health. So this is important to consider. The The third prerequisite is your resourcefulness. Resourcefulness is so important in entrepreneurship. Resourcefulness has nothing to do with your resources. It doesn't matter if you feel you don't have any resources, because what's more important is how resourceful are you to obtain the resources you need. So think about it this way if you're about to embark on this journey, quit your job, start a business, start a side hustle, turn it into a business, and so on. You are going to have five currencies. There are five currencies that you're spending. Either way, you're spending these five currencies. Whether or not you stay in your 9 to 5 or whether or not you decide to start a business, and the five currency are as follows. They are your time, your money, your effort, your focus, and your intellect. Those are the five currencies. And you're paying with these currencies either way. But when you start a business, the most important currencies in the beginning are your time and money. Time and money are your top two currencies, especially in the beginning of your entrepreneurial journey. And so when you start the journey, it's always time versus money In the beginning, maybe you don't have the financial resources to hire people, to hire teams, to hire someone to help you do your marketing, to hire a social media campaign, and so on and so forth. So in the beginning, maybe you're going to use a lot of your time to get the business up and running so you have more time than money, but eventually as you go deeper into your into your entrepreneurial journey, it's going to feel a lot like time and money are in competition. And what do I mean by competition? It's a dilemma to choose between do I spend time or do I spend money? You see in entrepreneurship versus in employment? The two environments are so different. The frameworks that you've been using to make decisions in your previous or your current employment are going to be very different from the frameworks you need to use to make decisions in your business. So in an employment environment, we're so used to being told that time is money. We're so used to being told that your time is money. So then therefore I've got to save money because time is money. And so what that means is that we're so used to valuing money way more than we value our time. Right? Think about it. In your life, how many times were you willing to save your money And in order to save that money, you needed to put your effort and your time into something in order to save money? In entrepreneurship, it is completely in reverse. In entrepreneurship, what you got to do is develop the mindset and develop the philosophy that time is not money. Time is money means that they're equal, but they're not equal. In fact, it's time to realize that time is not money. In fact, time is infinitely more valuable than money. And when you make this decision in entrepreneurship, it's around using your money to buy back your time and in the employment world, you're not used to doing that. You're used to using your time, investing your time to save your money. But in entrepreneurship is completely different. And I submit to you that if you're noticing this and you're nodding you and you resonate with it, I submit to you. If you adopt this mindset in your current employment, just watch how your personal growth skyrockets. You can adopt that mindset right now before you even start a business. Time is infinitely more valuable than money, right? So this is your resourcefulness. How are you going to spend those five currencies? Can you be resourceful if you feel that I don't have the money, how can I afford this? I can't afford this. Change it and ask yourself, well, how am I going to afford it? How are you going to exercise your resourcefulness so that you can attain the resources you need to start your business? So that's the third, third prerequisite. The fourth prerequisite is your resilience. Notice these all are starting with the letter R, just to help you to remember it right. Your resilience. Your resilience is so important because one of the most important traits and characteristics of an entrepreneur is resilience. Now, when you're getting started in your business, regardless of how far along you are, maybe it's a side hustle. Maybe you're starting from scratch, maybe you want to make a pivot somewhere. Resilience is important. Why? Because there are going to be winters seasons where you are going through, where there are challenges that may seem insurmountable and the journey is hard and the journey is long. So that's why we need to be resilient. And when it comes to resilience, this is all developing the mindset and developing a new operating system. Whatever your operating system was that you utilized in your employment, we need to have a brand new operating system to utilize in your business, because these two environments are very different. When you were in employment you had your 9 to 5. You knew exactly how much you were going to get paid, you knew exactly what you needed to do and what was expected of you. And you knew that the company was going to grow and that they were going to get customers. The company was going to spend their budget on acquiring leads and selling their products and services. Like you knew that. And all you had to do was focus on your role and responsibilities. But you see, if you quit your job and you start your own business, all of a sudden all of those responsibilities lead generation, marketing, selling your products and services, all of those things that the company did. Now those responsibilities all fall on you. How are you going to achieve that? How are you going to manage that? How are you going to be resilient through that? And this requires a completely different operating system. Your resilience comes from the operating system. It's becoming the person you need to become to be able to be successful in this new environment. So that is why then this prerequisite is called resilience. And the fifth prerequisite letter R, the fifth one is your roadmap. What is your roadmap? It is your business plan. It is really important to be absolutely clear on having a prioritized plan Without a plan, what you have is a false start. What's a false start? A false start feels like you're making progress in the beginning, and maybe you do make progress in the beginning, but somewhere along the way, soon it plateaus out, or you start to see setbacks, or you start to see a roadblock. Right? roadmap is really important. Starting a business from scratch or turning a side hustle into a business requires careful thought, careful planning with a careful strategy. And this is really important because every business has different stages of growth. And depending on the stage of your business, every stage of business requires something different of you, and it requires a different strategy to get to the next stage. And the stage of the of the business really depend on its metrics. So, for example, if the stage of your business that you're in is that you're making less than $50,000 a year in revenue, that's a very beginning stage of your business. And that stage requires a very different and unique strategy. If the stage of your business is now you're heading up to 100,000, you're just breaking into six figures. That stage of business requires a different strategy, and it requires different skill sets from you. If your business is now in multi six figures and you want to break into the $1 million revenue and your gross revenue, then that stage of business requires something very different of you and it requires also a very different strategy and roadmap. You see are you getting this. So this is why the roadmap is very important. It is time to be proactive. It is time to expand your vision and expand your foresight so that you know what your roadmap needs to be before your business gets there, right? And when you think about it, the stages of business and the roadmap of your four levels of value. The four levels of value that I teach implementation, unification, communication, and imagination. In the beginning, when you start a business, you're in implementation. You're doing everything. You're rolling up your sleeves, you're using your muscles, you're hustling to get your business. So you're in implementation, but you don't want to stay there, especially if you want your business to grow and thrive. So it still follows the four levels of value. If you're listening to this and you are inspired and you are committed you're decisive that you want to start your business, then I invite you to work with me. Below this link there is a. Below this video, there is a link to book a call to speak with one of my career advisors. And if we're the right fit, you can come into my mentorship and I can help you to have clarity in your decision, clarity in your purpose and direction in your career, your reason, clarity in that reason. And then lay out a roadmap using the four levels of value so that you can thrive, and so that you can grow in the business. Now, if you are wondering, well, what are the four levels of value? What do you mean? What's that roadmap that I can follow? I created a video all about the four levels of value, and that video is coming right up. Next, I'll see you there.