English has somewhere between depending how you count them. That's loads. We know that languages can manage with fewer. But can a language really Let's find out. toki a! mi jan Waputo. Hello, it's another RobWords, and what is often called the And by the way, I've found no To explain how it works, why it means so much to those who do, I need [jan Usawi] jan Usawi is my Toki Pona name - Usawi being the name part of that - [music] toki mi la pi pilin nasa ni lawa... [Rob] jan Usawi is a ridiculously and also the first person I've And I also want you to meet jan Lakuse who [jan Lakuse] I think, honestly, [Rob]Together they're going to But you're wondering about the names, But first off, what is Toki Pona? Well, it's a conlang - a constructed language Lang - who by the way was really helpful She describes Toki Pona aas to understand the meaning of life in 120 words." Toki Pona means "good language" or indeed and the multiple interpretations of the name gives How many, precisely? Words have been added as users have invented The Toki Pona dictionary published although some of them are only used Others are actually typos So the book says that there are But other people will tell you differently. 120, 137, 181, whatever. It's a tiny number compared with other languages. So how does it do it? Well for a start, Toki Pona comes without For example, there are no articles - That only saves three words compared with English, but it saves a heck of a lot There are no grammatical cases - a word doesn't change if it's the subject or In fact, there are no tenses, either. There on whether you're describing And there are no grammatical genders, so you don't need different masculine, What's more, there are only three pronouns. Where English has I and we, Toki Pona just has mi. It doesn't distinguish Ditto for you. While some languages it's just one person or you when it's And where we have he, she, it And these words also work for me, my, We'll talk about the most amazing way in but first I want to quickly has saved me a heck of a lot of I've just started using the Opera improved how I surf the web. I've One incredible feature is the Ai service and you can ask it anything you like - like get it to translate or summarise Another feature that has made a really group tabs in tab islands. I'm often so normally I'd have loads of browser I could keep all my newsletter tabs and, I mean just look how neat it looks. There are so many more great features: integrated ad blocker and VPN to make browsing the I strongly recommend giving it a go. Use the Opera browser for free for a faster, So the biggest way in which Toki Pona saves Toki Pona has very few words - but each one of They are broad concepts. It's like how our word fruit covers loads of different varieties of fruit and can A banana is a banana, yeah, but you can also Say "pass me the fruit" when and you're still going to get the banana. So the Toki Pona word kiwen means hard object, but you can use it where we would The word kasi is vegetation, but you can [jan Lakuse] You don't need like, room, a building, a skyscraper, an [Rob] Just a general word for a building or room. [jan Lakuse] Or just some sort of an [Rob] But what happens when When jan Lakuse and I were trying we settled on the story of the three little pigs. So the first foolish piggie which in Toki Pona can be kasi But if you wanted to differentiate two other swines' abodes you could describe plant - and the other as kiwen wawa, That's another thing: all content verbs and modifiers - like adjectives - And you can just line up the modifiers Actually, Sonja Lang talks about it which is a little outdated now, but has been a bible for learners She says, "Modern languages are cluttered things. What is a geologist but [ja Lakuse] It's just a matter English's hyper focus, or most world hyper focus on very specific things into a You're always talking with someone. And so the be checking in with your interlocutor, is super [Rob] A lot of people describe but it's a description that I've and I kind of see their point. The words themselves aren't But what they are, I suppose, is vague. It's like when we say "animal" we But if there are multiple animals So how easy is it to actually Well that's a question I put to jan Usawi, whose music I love. I was listening to it the Just have a listen: [singing in Toki Pona] It's good, right? So how does she get [jan Usawi] I knew from the an interesting songwriting challenge to take on. There's only so many words to use, there's words to rhyme within them that often ends up line that I like, and I'm like, I'm very But it's not just the small number Because of the huge variety of a single sentence can have a variety of meanings. That's why context is hugely Without it, lyrics can be, well... yeah, ambiguous. [jan Usawi] I think at times this is only going to make sense once you afterwards. And I understand where that comes I'm not going to explain the concept fully, that's totally different from what expected, [jan Lakuse] Usawi is a great lyricist. We've had little sort of, like, just little things where we compare. of her songs. We compare like, oh, what [jan Usawi] I really enjoy writing in A great example of this and of I've come to really love is with There's like a frequent [song] mi wile alasa [jan Usawi] Where mi means, wile means to want to but it's often used metaphorically So I, in the song where it's meant to had the thought of, like, I want to hunt as But someone came in and said, this light if you read it as meaning I want to try. [Rob] That's how it is with art, right? Differing So we've talked about how many words but we haven't talked about the words themselves. Where did they come from? Have these arrangements of vowels and Well, no. For the most part they're inspired by from Georgia, from Finnish, from Japanese, from Tongan, from another constructed You see this? This is yellow. One of my favourites is the It's taken from the English based creole, That in turn is a rendering of But you can see that with bagarap and same as their Tok Pisin and English equivalents. They've been changed to fit in construction of Toki Pona words A process called tokiponization. The Toki Pona alphabet has just 14 letters. 9 consonants, which are pronounced like they are Which is normal. English is weird And then there are the five but they are always pronounced the same - they're Loosely: aah, eh, ee, oh and oo. I mentioned Toki Pona's rules for A word can start with a vowel or a every syllable has to consist of The only consonant that can but that isn't always there. The result is that you never get There are also a few banned letter Mostly because they sound like other syllables. When someone joins the Toki Pona up with a tokiponized version of their name You should totally try to I did! Say helloooo to jan Waputo. [man off camera] Hi mate. [Rob] Hallo! [man] You're the language guy. [Rob] Yeah, that's me, yeah. I'll explain the jan bit later: which is what I wanted to go with, to Waputo? Well initially, I didn't. I followed the rules. So there's no R in Toki Pona [Rob off camera] sigh, okay, this takes [Rob on screen] I had to turn the B into then a sound that sounds most like [Rob off camera] A little bit more. [Rob on screen] ...so let's reduce the RD to T. You can't end on a consonant that isn't [Rob off camera] There we go. [Rob on screen] So name I But then I realised that that sounded like [Omar Sy] "Oh, putain" [jan Usawi] Rob, I think, would be so jan Wa could work as a name for sure. I like the sound of jan Waputo. [Rob] That's it. It's decided. I'm jan Waputo. Like I say, you should come up with your own. screenshot them, take a photo or And on we go. Now two things here: in Toki Pona, you That's why it's WAputo not waPUto. And let me finally explain what that "jan" So in Toki Pona, a name is not a proper noun, And to use it, you need So in the case of a person's name, usually For a country's name, you would put the Toki The UK is ma Juke. The United States is the These proper adjectives, I suppose, are the and I mean, the only time. Toki Pona sentences always start in lower case. Actually, this is the point where I should mention something massive that we Because this is not the only You can also write it like this. This is Sitelen Pona, the good text, and each The shapes aren't arbitrary, This is the character for toki, And it's the symbol for object, ijo, as if the object is communicating something. Side note: I originally interpreted this as But jan Lakuse ran a poll of toki poni speakers on my behalf and found that pretty Anyway, toki doesn't just mean language, When it's used as the standard basically doing is announcing It's like announcing "communication is starting". The glyph for pona - meaning good, mouth. And when you put the symbols for the happy little logo for toki pona. Which are my favourite symbols? which is for jaki, which means yucky And this little cutie, which This is the word that describes In Toki Pona, even a cat says mu. [cat] Moo. In fact, even inanimate objects can mu. [jan Lakuse] A microwave can mu. That's fine. [Rob] Oh, really? [jan Lakuse] Some people think that that's that's a mu. But I go by So right now, I am mu-ing to you. [Rob] Love it. Toki Pona can be very quirky. Another way in which it very much We waste so many words on numbers in English. We have one, two, three, four Then twenty, thirty, forty, a But not Toki Pona. It has a couple of counting where wan mean one, tu means two, mute - the word for many or amount - means 20 To count, you just add these together. So counting to ten is wan, tu, luka tu, luka tu wan, luka tu tu, luka luka. Simple [jan Lakuse] So if I want to say 299, it would be [Rob] You know, it reminds me of? [jan Lakuse] Kind of, yeah. [Rob] I had a lot fun talking runs an annual Toki Pona writing competition. And people take it really seriously. [jan Lakuse] So, for example, last year 20,000 word because there is no upper limit. Pona. And that was incredible to place. I actually can't even remember if they There's no doubt that Toki Pona means a huge at the Discord server, which is really the centre [Rob] People are really It's always going to sound like a mean question, There's obviously a philosophy behind about. I've been reading The Language of about perhaps simplifying language Do you think there's a philosophical reason that [jan Lakuse] I think you're closer but also there's different motivations get in because it's just like, it's such a who get in because they've never mastered 125 words or something, it's masterable. [jan Usawi] A lot of the people like around high school or college for reference. I mean, I think being into but we're all kind of like self identified [Rob] Whoever and wherever they are, me while I've been exploring [jan Usawi] In my opinion at least, Toki Pona hits that it hits that easy memorizability and gets you but not so few words that you have to stretch [jan Lakuse] For me, it is the best language, But not in like a colonial way. Just like, for me, that is the language that I [Rob] I like one description I heard, which was [jan Lakuse] That is amazing. Yes. Yes. Thanks so much to jan Lakuse, There's a link to the Discord Thanks also, of course, to jan Usawi. I'll link to her truly If you've enjoyed this, there's loads more from Watch this video next, perhaps, mi tawa. Take care.