These reels of film Nobody guessed had a secret passion. Films from his private collection At the height of his power Hermann Goering's reception For a long time, As Commander in Chief of the Luftwaffe, Hitler and Goering, How far do they follow a common path? What do these films reveal about the most flamboyant character Schorfheide, north of Berlin, idyllically located Goering's castle-like residence, Carinhall. The residence of a man I am indeed a Renaissance man, He wants to be the jovial face However, Hermann Goering, was involved in everything Elimination of political opponents. Millionfold crimes. A murderous world war. Carinhall, named after his first wife, The once modest hunter's lodge which the proud lord of the manor During the war, as the defeats increased and German cities it was to here to a private world far from reality. He watches films like this The population The Luftwaffe's immense losses. The millions of victims such images distract. At least we lived well for 12 years, In 1945, following Hitler's death, Goering, a prisoner of war He's taken to a camp who are to be tried He will never acknowledge not even at the Nuremberg trials. You must plead guilty or not guilty. &quot;I plead not guilty.&quot; In the end, he takes the law It was the unexpected last move Hermann Wilhelm Goering, grows up in an old knight's castle It belongs to his Jewish godfather Goering is considered a difficult child and his mother &quot;either an influential man If you want to understand my brother, you must go to Veldenstein Castle, reading the sagas Even as a child, Goering If there is a war, he said, I will sure During World War I, he had his first battle experience He's injured and makes new plans Second Lieutenant Goering is aiming high. He wants to be a military pilot He can report From the Kaiser himself, Pour Le Merite. As the last commander of the legendary he becomes known throughout the country. However, defeat puts an end His world falls apart. After the war, Germany but Goering wants to continue flying and goes to Sweden One day, brings Goering This visit changes his life. He meets Carin, to be his first wife. She leaves her husband and children the World War I fighter pilot. A scandal for society at the time. After Carin's death in 1931, He names his yachts after her. There are paintings of her Goering has a penchant He named his retreat in Schorfheide, It sounds like Valhalla, the afterworld for slain warriors Later, Goering will have from Sweden to Carinhall. Shortly after their wedding in 1922, where the National Socialist starts making a name for itself. Face-to-face with Hitler Goering, as he himself says, Hitler makes Goering commander the SA, excellent propaganda. In a putsch in Munich in November 1923, However, the Bavarian police in front of the Feldherrnhalle. Goering is seriously wounded. Doctors give him morphine Thus begins a lifelong drug addiction. In 1924, Hermann and Carin Goering At the behest of Hitler, Goering is to ask Mussolini, Goering is on a wanted list. He needs several injections He's a man with no perspectives. For a whole year, Goering tried to arrange However, he has no interest whose party is at rock bottom in Germany. Goering's mission is a failure. He returns to Sweden to Carin's family. A political failure he has reached his lowest point. The doctor in a psychiatric hospital egocentric, a hater of Jews. Released from prison in Germany, Hitler sets about attaining power Goering is determined to get involved. He's back in Germany in 1927, determined to bring about the downfall The political atmosphere is charged. The world economic crisis and mass unemployment. Hitler's followers Hitler appoints Goering, because the highly decorated war hero to the aristocracy In 1932, the Nazis become and Goering, president. That Hitler is able to seize power As Minister for the Interior in Prussia, Goering immediately begins Shortly afterward, The causes of the fire are disputed, Fundamental rights are suspended, Jewish businesses are boycotted. The SA hunts down and the construction From the 11th of April 1933, Elected to this high office by a majority of the representatives and as the candidate I am determined to run this office for the utmost benefit Above all, I am determined to its former state of dignity, as conceived Goering founded the Gestapo, and he takes on a key role He will not tolerate any competition. The SA begins to make demands for power. Together with SS Commander Himmler, Goering plans an intrigue These pictures at Golzheimer Heide near Dusseldorf. Goering commemorates a member of German shot by the French in 1923. Just a month later, 200 people are murdered, including all the prominent members Goering retreats to his house in close proximity to Hitler. The dictator admires and appoints him his successor Hello, Caesar. Are you coming to visit me? Have you had your meal? Are you full up? Go on, jump. Jump, go, it's good. I have no conscience says Goering. Adolf Hitler is my conscience. Following Rohm's murder, his reputation abroad Caricatures portray him wielding an axe. However, He wants to engage in foreign policy and knows that such an image He wants to be popular, like here in Austria in May 1938. He leaves the Gestapo and the police and the SS. Goering, second-in-command after Hitler, wants to enjoy power For this purpose, Hitler and at state expense What was initially a Swedish-style the splendid residence at Schorfheide. These pictures are also Diplomats and state visitors His drug addiction His fondness for dressing up and self-aggrandizement However, inwardly, It is forbidden for German nationals to marry Jews. Anti-Semitism becomes the word of law. The Nuremberg race laws at the Party rally in 1935. Of all the high offices one is of particular importance Reich Air Minister, In 1935, at the Party rally, which has been manufactured secretly The Treaty of Versailles is broken openly At the end of the year, The new air force is to play In 1936, it comes to a baptism of fire Goering presenting medals One soldier films the proceedings. The bombing demonstrates to a shocked world It's Goering who paves the way the center of Berlin. The man who wields power here in the economy. In 1936, Goering becomes and with that, dictator It's Hitler's will for the economy So far, this is his most important task. This new office shows how very much because war Imports, raw materials, currency, Goering has control of almost everything Hitler demands the annexation of Austria, Uses threats to put pressure until Chancellor Schuschnigg steps down, On the 4th of April 1938, films Hitler's arrival in Klagenfurt. Private filmed footage staged as a triumphant procession The annexation of Austria between Hitler and Goering. If the dictator expresses doubts, They complement each other. In times of crisis, On the 15th of May 1938, Goering As an old-school nationalist, seizing Austria was the fulfillment Here too though, Jews and political opponents and arrested. Goering travels to one of the castles he knew as a child, and there, celebrates meeting his sisters, Both are married to Austrian lawyers. Goering sensed at the annexation of Austria. Hermann Goering's Reichswerke, one of the largest industrial complexes is striving to expand southeast. Now Austria, the gateway to the Balkans, Goering is pleased. While he is indulging Hitler is preparing He is planning to crush Czechoslovakia and Goering is to organize However, he wants to prevent a great war Goering knows the necessary economic However, he does not dare On the contrary, in front of representatives he seems confident &quot;and that we will have to go &quot;which I would not shy away from.&quot; Germany would then be and would have control and be a wealthy country. However, we would have to take a risk, He avoids open conflict, and behind the scenes In Carinhall, he receives diplomats First and foremost, Goering He sees Germany as a great imperial power, In September '38, Goering presents the text of a treaty designed to maintain For this, October '38, German troops as stipulated in the Munich Agreement. However, Hitler wants November '38, the christening At his side, his new wife, Emmy Sonnemann. The relationship between Hitler For the first time, March '39. While Hitler Goering is holidaying in Italy. All of a sudden, he's lost influence. Hitler has now other advisors. Joachim von Ribbentrop Goering senses that war is inevitable, though he does not dare Each time I stand in front of the Fuhrer, These pictures were taken at an air show Ernst Udet, responsible out of his depth. He is to commit suicide in November '41. New types of planes are presented. Goering assures Hitler In control of the economy and armaments, whether the Reich is really capable However, he suppresses reality and allows himself to be impressed and numerous vamped-up fighter squadrons. By summer of 1939, there are 400,000 on duty The four airborne fleets for an extensive war. The blunt sword has been sharpened Even though in comparison there is a lack of bombs and fuel. Commander in Chief Goering still tries Sixth of June 1939 in Berlin. The capital is being decorated It is the eve of World War II. &quot;We should stop playing poker,&quot; The answer was, In Spain, 5,000 German soldiers in his attempt for power. A trial run without too many losses. Now something of a far more Goering holds secret talks with England. He wants to preserve peace and to continue living just like a man of the Renaissance. He has a lot to lose. The attack against Poland Goering's Luftwaffe gains control The Poles don't stand a chance. Dive bombers for the attack of ground forces. Goering is devoted to Hitler Private films show him at the opening His halfhearted attempts Goering remains obedient. It is he who orders The German occupiers set up ghettos today's Lodz, Soon, the ghettos are mere intermediary to the extermination camps. Goering is also involved in this war. In November, '38, it is Goering who decides not to pay one billion reichsmark Jews are to be dispossessed Goering, however, is not associated with the crimes. In the French campaign, the Luftwaffe The British Expeditionary Force on the Channel coast. Goering promises that his planes but things turn out differently. Three hundred and thirty-eight thousand managed to flee. Had Goering been able to keep his word, there would have been little chance Two weeks previously, Rotterdam While negotiations Goering's planes razed The news of the negotiations The campaign on the Western Front Hitler awards the Marshal's baton. Goering alone does a little better. A title is created especially for him, He is the highest-ranking officer and has a residence, Carinhall, A mansion full of art treasures Goering collects old masters, There's no holding him back To him, France's defeat Paris is full of art, and the man comes to take whatsoever he desires. The Louvre, sacred to every lover of art. For Goering, nothing more than On his shopping list, Cranach the Younger, That many of the paintings have been is of no consequence. Goering, the collector, In most cases, Then he has his shopping to be brought to Carinhall. There is something addictive in the way erecting a memorial to himself. Experts search everywhere for art treasures Any owner refusing to cooperate Following the campaign the Luftwaffe has bases and the north of France. The British Isles are within reach. Hitler wants to invade England and Goering's Luftwaffe and bomb the island into submission. Goering believes that his planes in just five weeks. A visit to an airbase in France with Goering's old World War 1 comrade, an air force general left of Goering. They've known each other Loerzer's vivid reports of air warfare attracted Goering Now in 1940, Goering says Nevertheless, he leaves him be, I need someone to drink a bottle The Battle of Britain The Royal Air Force British Spitfires inflict serious losses. At the end of September 1940, plans to invade The Commander in Chief of the Luftwaffe From October 1940 until January 1941, Goering is on holiday Even at the height he doesn't forego because in the meantime, Reich's Jagermeister. The mistakes in the building up are glaringly obvious, He is in the middle of a war but which he is, however, The 22nd of June 1941. With the attack on the Soviet Union, the war of annihilation Goering is well-informed behind the front line. What is more, in the spring of '41, chief of the SS Security Service, orders to draw up on who to put in front of a firing squad. Above all, political officers and Jews. Millions of Soviet prisoners In the capital, Berlin, Goering, has almost unlimited power. In July '41, victory over the Soviet Union Reinhard Heydrich, whose special troops on the Eastern Front as Goering gives him sweeping powers. Goering orders Heydrich to prepare the way for &quot;the final solution in German areas of influence in Europe. Everywhere in Germany, These private film recordings being loaded onto a train The destination is the ramp in Auschwitz-Birkenau. Only ten are believed to have survived. Goering's signature is a further step However, officially, with the crimes at all. The Luftwaffe Its defense system is chaotic. Even engineers like Willy Messerschmitt There are not enough planes Besides soldiers, these gliders also transport and they played an important role Other new technological developments Ernst Udet is responsible He breaks down and takes his own life. Preliminary decisions The attack on Moscow fails. A whole army falls in Stalingrad. Goering had promised a daily delivery Only a fraction His standing with Hitler Night after night, British bombers carry out He'd eat his hat if an enemy plane His Luftwaffe is powerless. The anti-aircraft units not stop them. Goering is also responsible The Reich Air Defenses Association, comes under his command. Private film recordings Air raid defense police units carrying out The greatest worry is about gas attacks. Youths and adults People think they are well-equipped Nobody has any idea of high explosives and firebombs. Like in Hamburg, July '43. A fire stormed the streets destroying Temperatures reach up to 1,000 degrees. Over 40,000 people die. How will Goering react He seems unperturbed and lethargic. He doesn't make any decisions. At the most, he distributes medals. His Luftwaffe cannot stop Technical developments a so-called Lichtenstein sense, bring short-term benefits However, the British find blinding the radar This was a crucial factor The attacks are also directed designed to demoralize them. Germany under bomb attack. Uncensored pictures Air supremacy on the Eastern Front while Goering and showing off The Commander in Chief He is alienated from his troops. Hunting interests him more than anything. With his camera, he records what than the high losses of his pilots Stags on his private hunting grounds. Since spring of 1944, the US Air Force Goering's fighter planes can do little There is a lack of everything, Above all, a lack The bombing As yet, The warlord is outraged and the empty promises In May '44, The backbone Transport routes When the Allies land the German Luftwaffe plays no role. It has been defeated. The extent of the losses is catastrophic. In November '44 alone, 404 fighter planes are lost Some miracle weapon The greatest and only hope lies in the jet fighter, Me 262. One thousand four hundred of these jets but more than 200 never leave the ground. However, even the greater number of jets would've been powerless of the fleet of bombers. Adolf Galland, Luftwaffe general, Again and again, he calls attention of their weapons. However, Galland falls out of favor. He will be made the scapegoat responsible for the collapse At the end of January '45, The battle for air supremacy German pilots, are sent on suicide missions. At the end of the war, In Berlin, toward Hitler's bunker in the city center. In a radio message, Goering announces if Hitler does not make contact. The second-in-command thinks In Berlin however, Hitler senses betrayal and orders the SS He is divested of all his offices. As the US Army the SS brings Goering to one of the castles of his childhood. After Hitler's suicide, he plans to negotiate He still believes On the 7th of May 1945, Hermann Goering mistakenly believing as a German emissary. The surprise GIs and the emerald ring His wife, Emmy, and Edda, his daughter Despite the arrest, He holds a press conference. Will he admit his guilt? He had no idea in the concentration camps, says Goering. It's all Himmler's doing. He, as Marshal of the Reich, would never have permitted Not a trace of remorse. Anybody of any standing is now prisoner of war. Adolf Galland, Field Marshal Kesselring, till recently Commander in Chief Hans-Ulrich Rudel, no German pilot Hermann Goering to find himself An American journalist reporting The big man felt rather uncomfortable. He was sweating that because of some row, had not been on speaking terms Completely incommunicado, Please emphasize this, Goering, the highest-ranking living Nazi, In the city and now laid waste by carpet bombing, the most important war criminals Nuremberg and was a wasteland of ruins. However, the one building the scene of the Nuremberg trials The prisoners are held in these cells. The man whom the Allies call is also watched day and night. Goering, who until recently is off drugs and on a diet. On the 25th of November '45, For the first time in history, politicians and military personnel for their crimes before a court. The wrongs which we seek have been so calculated, so malignant and so devastating that civilization because it cannot survive their being repeated. Goering expects the death penalty. He is completely without remorse. The once most powerful man, claims to have known nothing I have never expressed agreement with the idea that one race can be said On the contrary, I have always stressed During the cross-examination, Robert Jackson, but with Goering, That is right, isn't it? I have already answered but these explanations Your counsel will see to that. Self-confident and verbose, and accuses the Allies of having done His goal is to leave However, the weight The Soviet prosecutors show Auschwitz. The most appalling crime Amongst others, He is found guilty of all indictments Right to the bitter end, All of these things were necessary things, as I understood you, to protect... Yes, these things were necessary The judgment Goering told The execution is to be held He plans his last coup and writes a letter He had three capsules when he was brought to prison. I put the first one when I was searched. I hit the second one so well in spite of the frequent I had it with me The third capsule in a round pot of skin cream. It was downright impossible to find. This hidden capsule of poison Another secret shortly after the end of the war. American troops and Goering's country house Goering's mountain guide befriends a GI and gives him rolls of film as a souvenir. For decades, until they were found again Goering's private films show key scenes in the life of the most powerful man Hitler's closest confidant. The jovial face of the regime. A man with many faces. Carinhall, was blown up Prior to that, and then later confiscated by the US Army. Rubble clearance troops, but traces always remain.