Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome granddaughter Sarah, and two they're presented with his Aggie Ring, My uncle found this ring in the Joebella village where I am from several decades ago. My uncle kept this ring for more than 20 years, and then he gave it to me. And then I kept the ring for almost two years. I also told my uncle to not give or sell the ring to the wrong person and he At that time, I thought, if my dad was in he had lost I would feel very thankful. I never heard of Morotai before... You know, I see the map, I see this may be Popular youtuber, Ricky Santoso, set out to travel around his home country of Indonesia and vlog every step of the way. As if by fate Ricky's journey brought two museum owned by Muhlis Eso. The first time we wanna go to explore what Morotai is like. Going to the beach, going going to the jungle, &quot;Where is the museum?&quot; And then I see that small house. &quot;It's not a museum!&quot; I say, &quot;This is like people local house!&quot; Mr. Muhlis is like welcoming really nice with big smile. &quot;Welcome to my As Muhlis explained the significance of and showed Ricky his impressive collection of WWII artifacts, a mysterious gold ring caught Ricky's eye. And then I see the ring. Mr. Muhlis wear a ring, and I knew it is not an Indonesian ring because it's so different so big. So after the interview he was just like, &quot;Do you know about this ring?&quot; and then &quot;Oh, finally...&quot; And I see it and &quot;Wow, it was so cool&quot; but I don't know about this ring. And then I really see it this name &quot;E. V. Verlander&quot; So I take a Instagram story, I take it, but I knew about this ring. I just like &quot;Okay help him so I do it. On the other side of Rudy Sutio sees Ricky's Instagram story On a phone call with his daughter, and current Aggie saw Mr. Verlander's ring. At the end of our conversation I remember that I just saw in an Aggie Ring and thatAggie Ring is ring in Morotai. I called my boss I found, he saw an Aggie ring from an Ricky. I remember at that time, how because I knew it would be a big story. And then one person said, &quot;I knew that ring, it is from Texas A&amp;M see they have an 'A &amp; M' and then the story is like, yeah maybe this guy is Not long after the initial exchange, the family of Edward Verlander was located and plans were set in motion to bring this long-lost Aggie Ring home It's hard for us to communicate, especially through the far away. Even with only a video post, makes me feel very thankful and happy. Thank you so much, Ricky. Thank you, thank you. While Eugenie was home in Indonesia ring so it could begin the final stage This story is very important to me because it's a coincidence how an Aggie Ring can be found in Indonesia, out of anywhere else work in Texas A&amp;M Marketing &amp; telling the story through us, through me, Over 75 years after Edward Verlander descendants made their way to Aggieland Before passing on the ring, Please keep it safe. Send my message the Verlander family. I have finished my duty, but please, when it This ring is something that I treasure keep it safe and I desperately want to I can't bear myself to keep this ring, I have the right to keep it because it has I'm like you and you're like me. Please It's really hard for me to believe somebody in that situation would hold that ring and such value that he didn't know that person, it doesn't person's family out there possibly That is sacrifice because I know that the I think my Papa would think this is the most amazing story ever. I think he would think it was really cool really neat. You having the best time watching the are here today, his daughter is here today, to come out here and celebrate this event. I think Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome granddaughter Sarah, and two they're presented with his Aggie ring I think this means more to our family than he may ever know... ...more than we could probably even and that I hope that he and his family the best for them and if there's the favor I would certainly do it in a