- [Producer] Is there anything - (laughs) Just looking cool, mainly. You won't cry until you see (producer laughs) (upbeat music) - In a world of kitchen gadgets, there are hundreds of items that are designed to do just one task. Alton Brown called them unitaskers. He hated them. - But can some unitaskers than cobbling together gear - Kate and I are gonna of some of our favorite and least favorite single function tools so you can decide if they're worth it. - But first, we have a book coming out! It's called &quot;Kitchen Gear, - The two of us have 30 years of combined experience and we've packed all of our favorite tips and tricks into this book. - We give you our unbiased take on what's worth buying and what's not. Plus, you'll find over that bring out the best in your gear. - Get your copy of &quot;Kitchen Gear: The Ultimate - First up, Lisa, with her picks. (upbeat music) - First up, julienne peelers. Now, julienne is a classic knife technique where you cut food into matchsticks, long, very thin, rectangular pieces. They're perfect for salads and You can make vegetable noodles. The julienne peeler promises to make it super easy but is it worth it? There are a few ways to make julienne. First, obviously chef It takes a little time to really make them perfect. You can also use a mandolin. Now we have a winning mandolin. It works well. You can use that when you wanna make a big quantity of julienne. If you're just doing a little bit, you don't really need to and if you don't own a mandolin, no reason to really go and buy one just for this kind of task. They're kind of pricey and honestly, they can be You have to be careful. And mandolins are also a compared to a chef's knife I tested a full lineup of julienne peelers and some of them are actually pretty good. Compared to a mandolin or a chef's knife, they're compact, they're really inexpensive, they're super easy to clean, and while they're a little bit slower to produce big quantities than a mandolin, they're great if you just clean it, put it away, and move on. So to use these, you with a regular vegetable peeler, which you're gonna have to do anyway whether you're using a or one of these. And then you just draw and as you do it, it cuts it into perfect This is our winner by Oxo. Once again, not sponsored. They just nailed this thing. It has a few key features that you want in any julienne peeler. First, super sharp blades. Now, obviously, right, you want it to be able to but some of them were not that sharp and they started to dull noticeably by the end of testing. This one stayed sharp throughout. You also want a nice handle to use and gives you good leverage. We like this short handle and it's got this sort of grippy surface so when your hands are wet or whatever, it's not slipping around and it's very easy to get good leverage and control with this and We also found that when between the blades, food didn't get stuck and it cut more nicely into squares rather than little flat, We also really liked that and it had lots of teeth. So every time you put this on food, you're cutting a bunch of it at once. You don't have to keep going over areas. Is a julienne peeler worth it? We say, yes. Of all the ways you can make julienne from mandolin to chef's knife it is the quickest to set up and use and it's probably the least wasteful. Do you have a julienne peeler? Do you love it? Do you hate it? Let me know in the comments below. Next up, corn strippers. Now, cutting corn off the We know. You got the knife there. The kernels are popping You can cut too deep and You can cut too shallow and lose some of that sweet It's a mess. Enter corn strippers. These specialized gadgets promise to make the whole process Are they worth it? We tested seven different and while all of them technically we didn't like most of them. There were a few vegetable that technically worked but It was hard to cut at the right depth. You might as well just use your We also tested one that unless the corn was perfectly and it was very hard on our wrists. Another one was shaped and that was just a mess. It mashed up the corn. It was not good. So the only one we kind of by RSVP International. You basically open the top, put the corn in on these and put this little core on top and press down and turn. And it cuts the corn off the cob and contains all the cut and then you can just pull Now the only thing that is that it has a bunch of parts to clean. One, two, three, four, five pieces you have to wash and dry, which is a lot more than just But if you really hate with your chef's knife, Next up on my list, the If you buy natural peanut butter, you know that it's not uniform consistency when you open the jar. The bottom layer is that is the peanut solids, and then it has the oils sitting on top. They separate as they sit. That's because they don't which keep all that oil in the emulsion. So if you've ever really tried with the solids and the oil on top, you know what a mess it is. It's really hard to do and that oil is really important to the flavor and the texture. You want it mixed together. So we found this gadget. It's called Grandpa Witmer's Old-Fashioned Peanut Butter Mixer. It costs about 10 bucks, so It's basically a lid, and this fits all standard 16 They also make one that and they make these massive depending on what you need. It has a couple real simple parts. There's a lid and there's a little crank, and inside the lid there is So you just unscrew the put this on with the gasket and the little holder in place, and you're just gonna put You are gonna put it right as you pull it back out through the lid, that silicone gasket actually wipes the crank clean. Absolutely no mess. Then you just take this lid off, put your lid of the jar back on, and that peanut butter is If you keep it in the refrigerator, it won't separate out again, but if it does, just stick this back on, give it a couple cranks You do have to hand wash these parts, but there's only a couple of them and it really isn't hard, especially since it cleans This is probably the ultimate unitasker. It just does this one thing, but it does that one thing perfectly. And if you eat a lot of it is a game changer. Are you a natural peanut butter person or are you someone who to come out of that jar ready to go? Let me know in the comments. I really wanna know. Here's my final unitasker, the burger press. Now this thing is and the problem is you're you're squashing it, and every time you work the hamburger, what happens is it The fibers of the meat and you get this chewy, tough consistency. This is one of the ones we tested. It's by Weber. You think they'd know better. I'm sorry, Weber. You should not have gotten into this. It has two platforms, one side for half pound burgers, one side for quarter pound. You put the meat on and and it will only go as far to shape it into a big or small disc. In theory, sounds great, but you're gonna compress that hamburger in a way that is not gonna be Don't buy a burger press, ever. Here's what you do instead. You wanna separate the I like to do four ounce burgers and then very, very, very gently like you're patting a baby on the head, just shape it into the shape of a patty and then put a little dimple in the middle and that helps it not puff up. And that's it. That's all you have to do. Just let it cook, leave So those are my Now here's Kate with some more gadgets. (upbeat music) - Cutting up a watermelon So watermelon slicers are a really popular The way it works is you then you drag it through flip them over and they So you can reach into the The alternative is just using a knife, flip it cut side down So was this as good as a knife? No, it was not. We tested these with a ton of watermelons and the results were super clear and also very disappointing. First, the watermelons released as they do when you use a knife. Also, these were actually When you drag them through the watermelon, it's really hard to position You end up leaving behind a lot of fruit, which is super annoying. Also, you have to be really careful. Every time you make a slice, you want to line up this blade with the slice you just made. So in order to get the most out of it, you have to be really careful Because it's really hard to tell how far you're slicing we found that we either cut and it was especially disappointing when we didn't cut deep enough because then we'd remove a and realized we'd left Though the slices were they were really jagged and kind of erratically so we really didn't get Okay, I have to be honest, the manufacturer says They say that it can Very intriguing. So we tried it. And the results were just as bad. So do not use this for watermelon. Do not use this for cake. If you buy a whole watermelon, you have to cut it in half So in our opinion, just use the serrated Next, electric egg cookers. I eat a ton of hard and soft cooked eggs and these promise to make the process of cooking them much easier. A lot of them can also make poached eggs and some even have little trays These sound super intriguing but at ATK, we have a tried and true method for cooking eggs. Usually, we use a sauce Are these better than a steamer basket and a sauce pan of water? Not really. These are basically tiny steamers. The problem is most of them For the most part, they did but soft eggs, medium these models really faltered. They either undercooked the and it was especially noticeable when we didn't fill which means that you're always gonna have to cook six or 10 eggs. The problem is really due to the amount of water you add to these. The measurement tools that they were vague, they left us guessing. The way these work is, you and when all that water has evaporated, then the egg cooker says it's done, it gives you an alert, you eat your eggs. That means that if you don't your eggs are either gonna or they're not gonna cook long enough and they'll be runnier than you want. The best way to cook hard is to put a little bit about an inch and a half, which is enough that the but not so high that it fills Put the eggs in a steamer basket and cook for six and a or 13 minutes for hard cooked. I do this all the time. I have those times memorized and they work every single time. If you still really want this is the one we recommend It's from Cuisinart. Once you sort of experiment you learn how it works. It does produce pretty good results, but we really think you're best off just learning to use a sauce This appliance was a little bit faster, shaved about four minutes it usually takes to cook eggs. But it's not fail proof, it's not that convenient, and ultimately it's one more and store and clean and take care of. You really don't need and we think you should skip it. What product am I talking about now? Oh, onion goggles. As silly as these look, and there's a really good reason for them. When you cut onions, you cry. So there's some real science here. Onions contain acid and enzymes, and when those two things they release an irritating gas. When that gas makes its way to your eye, your eye has a built-in defense mechanism and it releases tears to flush it out. When I cut onions, I have been known to have We were curious, so we tried them. This might sound surprising, The onion goggles have a little that is comfortable and that gas from reaching your eyes. Don't try to use regular sunglasses here. The fumes can go under If you cook a lot at home and and you're one of those you might really benefit from - [Producer] Is there anything - (laughs) Just looking cool, mainly. You won't cry until you see (producer laughs) The last gadget I'm gonna talk about today are these bear paws, which we of meat shredding gloves. Sort of a funny sounding topic, but there's a real use for these. Picture, you've just roasted a pork butt, something like that. You're taking it off the and you need to shred that Tongs and forks are but these are a really nice alternative. They're actually really well designed. So first of all, the handles stay cool. Also, the tines are spread out pretty far, so you don't get food stuck there. You can work really and also they're pretty sharp. You actually do have to but when you kind of anchor and kind of pull and shred like this, it comes apart really We also tested a pair of fleece-lined silicone gloves They were a little bulky The gloves were too big Also, the material was pretty rigid, so we had a hard time really shredding that meat effectively. Some people who have also reviewed these haven't been as big a fans as we are, but we think there's a real They're efficient, they're faster than the other alternative, and they work really well. Also, I think we can all agree At ATK, we generally believe really are worth getting ease of use, they're easier to clean, or if they simply just do their job better than the other alternatives would. So hopefully with my picks and Lisa's, you feel a little better equipped to decide which of these are worth your money. - For more information on all the gear we talked about today, check out the links below or go to americastestkitchen.com. - Have you ever bought a unitasker, gotten home and said, &quot;What Let us know in the comments. Also, be sure to like so you never miss an episode. (upbeat music)