The day my parents were buried I married myself A strange man This is called Life-saving grace Promise Hello The user you are calling Temporarily unavailable Please call again later Use your strength good Try harder Come Try your best good Take a deep breath Coming out soon Add some oil Take a deep breath congratulations Quintuplets Judgment Mr. Fu You are here Talking business Yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, yes This is Zhou's project. Please take a look Mr. Fu is still unmarried, right? What a coincidence Where's my niece? Also single Let me introduce you to Can't Daddy You forget you have Are you married? What did you just call me? Blood related Dear Daddy Where did the wild child come from? Dare to In front of Mr. Fu Nonsense I'm not talking nonsense Here is the evidence It's just a few pages. Chen Ji Ye Zhi Ma Mr. Fu This is Haicheng This is Haicheng The most authoritative appraisal agency It can't be a false theory You little liar It looks quite similar Who is your mother? I didn't care I'll send you to the police station. snort Dabao Those who run errands cannot enter the imperial examination Mommy I'm looking for my son Why can't I enter? Why are you running around again? You just called Let me take someone Who is leading the call? Take your husband It's you Who is better, me or my sister? Of course it's you, baby. Lived in Zhou's house for three years Zhou didn't let me touch No matter how beautiful she is, she's useless Mother-in-law You already knew They got together Yes or no Shut up Shut up A chicken that can't lay eggs Do you have a say? Zhou Shengjing You forgot about us Engagement vows? Engagement vows? That's for Bai's heirs listened Who are you? Your parents are dead. Your property Inherited by your sister Yurou Why do you think You are worthy of me Dead girl Don't drag my son down. Someone come What do you want? Let me go Let me go Let me go Let me go Let me go I've already got you Awarded this The doorman So as not to affect my son and soft Wedding Ha ha ha ha brute You will be punished. ah You dare to curse me Uneducated guy See how I deal with you Hey Dead girl How did you run away? White shallow stop don't worry I'm already in my sister Eat cake The drug was given She can't run far. Cheap for you Thank you, Ms. Bai Hahaha stop Mind your own business. This is me A wife bought with money You're looking for a fight Oh, spare me, spare me. explain What's going on? Ask me what's going on I just want to repay you I had a fake marriage with you If you take it seriously, you lose. Who told you it was a fake marriage? What are you pretending? If it wasn't a fake marriage Can you sign a prenuptial agreement? You can get married Just turn off the phone and disappear Madam misunderstood. The old lady was hospitalized that night. Emergency Mr. Fu, he didn't Shut up Please explain first What's going on This is a misunderstanding The child is not yours I knew it was a scam. Dead girl Why is it you? Aren't you infertile? Your son never touched me How do you want me to live? Thanks to you Not only can I give birth She gave birth to five You know her It's a shame to say I drove him out myself. Former daughter-in-law The star that killed my parents You stinky errand boy Come here Climbing the high branch of Mr. Fu Look how I deal with you. What qualifications do you have to teach me? Let me go Daddy, please save Mommy. Mr. Fu, what are you doing? My Woman You are not qualified to teach What How is it possible? Notify Cancel Zhou Project Then put this old thing Throw it out Mr. Fu, don't do that. don't want I was wrong Mr. Fu Who gave you the courage? Abducted my kind Hiding outside That's ten years White shallow How much have you hidden from me? Mommy hid a lot Hey Don't listen to his nonsense. I hid it from you This matter The boss can no longer hide it. The remaining children It must not be exposed again. Third Sister You said, brother, can you Bring daddy back. This is the fifth sister's idea. It will definitely work Everyone says The fifth sister is a child prodigy Today, thanks to you Saved the old lady What do you want, kids? Grandma will buy you Fu No need Mommy said that I can't do it for reward Do good things Not bad, not bad You have a good mommy. It hurts Oops, you're hurt. Xiao Zhao Call Dr. Li quickly. It is jade Seeing these two children Just like seeing When Ah Shen was a child It's just the same mold. Carved Mr. Fu Old man's hole The old man said she is okay. Dr. Lee's children Dr. Li also gave the horror Dr. Li also gave the children Treated the wound Treated the wound Never mind, I'll cancel it. Experts make an appointment to stay home The old lady said These two kids look like you. I just want to spend more time with the kids. Like my child I like it so much I like it so much If I see my grandson Not bad Maybe as soon as possible Show Mom Shen's To get her to cooperate with treatment That's right Contact the child's parents I want to thank you in person I want to thank you in person Come mom A Shen You're back just in time Come Meimei Lingling This is your Uncle Fu. Daddy What did you call me? Three Treasures Why are you here? Why are you here? Are you injured? White shallow These two are your children too. Fu Youshen A deep sound You know Miss Bai. What are you? I'm not going Daddy and mommy hugged me Fu Youshen, what do you want? Let me go Mrs. Fu You are awesome! Just call me Miss Bai It was you ten years ago Tell me in person It's a fake marriage Where is Mr. Fu? You are awesome You just promised me this morning Nothing to hide It popped up in the afternoon Two kids call me dad Still not great The third and fourth sisters were also exposed I go Keep checking like this No one can hide. White shallow explain You kidnapped me Several children Five You believe this too? I'm not a pig Maybe Cao Meiying forced me to beat her The reason for the ovulation injection I did give birth to 5 children. So after that night We have 3 children Right? No Only the boss's gift is yours. The third and fourth sister It's the child of me and my ex-husband. He sold you out. You gave him a child. You want to deceive me again I didn't lie to you I'm talking to my ex-husband Unforgettable old love Mr. Fu has checked Two children And Master Tianci They are definitely not born in the same year. Bai Yurou was afraid that I would call the police Took away the fifth sister They threatened me. It was not until the second year that they were able to get it back and settle down Fu Youshen should Can't see the flaw? Mr. Fu Nothing else, I'll leave first Where to go Also said that we should repay kindness You actually ran away Having a baby with your ex-husband Fickle Sign it What to sign Divorce Agreement God-given custody belongs to me You can set any conditions Like you Unfaithful woman Not worthy of being Mrs. Fu Not even qualified As a gift from the mother Divorce is OK The child can't give you Wanting children There is another way What can I do? With God's gift Move back Official announcement to the world Your identity as Mrs. Fu I can ignore you There is another man in my heart But you listen carefully You and the bastard from your previous life Must be driven out of the Fu family Never let me see You are such a heartless person. The child has been exposed We must not let Fu Youshen See the other two children Goodbye Haicheng Mrs. Zhou, rest assured meeting Send them on their way Mommy I want to go home to use the toilet Hurry up Otherwise, you will miss the train. Got it, Mommy You guys get in the car first There are so many things to do, why don't you leave? He can't leave. Mr. Fu master Master, why did you leave? Fu Youshen I won't give you the treasure. Just you Want to compete with me for the child yes I have no money I work hard alone Raise the child You said you want Why Just based on your ten years ago A shiver Do you want I'll help you recall the memories How many times was that night? You are not ashamed I want my own child What am I embarrassed about? Daddy Don't separate us. OK Daddy didn't want to separate you. I just want Take you to see Check out the newly opened Ocean Park Really? That's great. Ocean Park I want to go and see Fu Youshen Bring the third and fourth sisters Let's go too. Why should I Taking care of other people's children Where's your ex-husband? Let him manage God-given car But we are also dads. Biological children They're kidding. Get on board I didn't see Daddy again. It's useless to see Dad only loves the eldest brother Mommy loves you So you guys Promise Mommy Don't Is it okay to reveal your identity? Mommy doesn't want to lose again It's your turn Why Mom is going to be busy Po You take your sister home first Um I took my sisters home Mom is off work Buy you some delicious food Um Grandma, why are you here? Oh, I miss you guys. Grandma, this is my second brother. We are quintuplets Five Quintuplets Then there are two more. The fifth sister was sent abroad Go to study Big Brother is stingy Took me to Ocean Park Stingy Dad Don't be unhappy. Grandma will take you out to play OK well well Haha good Walk Get in the car with grandma. well The graves are all How good it would be for Ah Shen's child I can go with peace of mind Drive to chase Dajin is back home Mommy Um We had a great time today Daddy, give it back to me Tutoring homework I also bought a lot Toys and snacks Wow There are so many delicious foods. Then we'll take them all back. Can I give it to my sister? good Is their daddy dead? Why don't you care about anything? Still need to grab Things I bought for Tianci Daddy, don't say that. How does Fu Youshen speak? Am I wrong? You who never forget Where's your ex-husband? He can't drink milk. I drink the milk myself Fried food is unhealthy What's wrong with a kid eating fried food? I said you can't eat it, so you can't eat it. Mr. Fu Just got the news The old lady was assassinated Now being taken to the hospital What Hello What My children are in the hospital too. I'm going there now Dabao Mom has something to do Going out for a while Just wait for me obediently. All right mom How are you? I'm fine Are the children safe? child right Just two days ago In our home Those two kids Someone wants to kill them Mr. Fu The killer just committed suicide We are still tracking The Mastermind Mr. Fu The three kids are fine. Mother Helping them Discharge procedures child right Smart and cute child With you when you were a kid Exactly the same doctor My mother is in your hands. White shallow How much have you hidden from me? JL You scared Mommy to death Mommy, I'm sorry. We shouldn't Sneak out to play It's all my fault I didn't take good care of my sisters. Don't blame you You're just bad guys. Targeted It's not safe here Let's talk about it slowly when we get home Ah Shen Ah Shen Mom doesn't have much time left. I hope I can die Take a look at your child If that child is yours How nice it would be Mom knows then After the Repulse Bay incident You swear to be single forever. Your dad Your dad In the end, they all died with regrets. In the end, they all died with regrets. Is that her? Those children Those children Is it mine? Are you looking for Ms. Bai? Where did they go? And the child? Those kids It's your house. You, dad What Wife and children I've been walking for half a day. Not me Those kids Lost this I'll leave it to you. What's going on? Isn't the boss Bai Tianci? This transcript Who is Bai Tianqi? Brother, you are awesome. It's the first time for the golden grade oops Brother Don't make a fuss all the time Low profile Why are you holding my paper? oops My paper is lost. I need to find my paper I didn't find it. I found yours. oops Big Brother You are too forgetful. Full score paper Not keeping it well Anyway, the exam is over. This piece of paper Now It's just a piece of paper Aren't you the same as me? Always forgetting things I don't know who we should follow. Just follow our dad Lost Mommy and us Yo First in the grade I think they are the best at cheating. Just My dad reported it to me. The most expensive cram school Only 95 You can't even afford tuition. How can I get a hundred? You are cheating Why Why do you tear my brother's scroll? Because my mother is a senior executive Your mother is a stinky errand girl Running errands means serving others Stinky chores Dirty and smelly The lowest class in society My mother is an errand boy. But every penny she earned All clean You can't scold her. Children of the poor Can you take me? How What Sample What are you arguing about? You two don't go home after school. Wandering around Where's your errand mom? Busy running errands I don't have time to care about you. day by day Tell your teacher Why are you crying? teacher I exposed them for cheating on the exam They fell. My phone watch That's Zhang Tiantian Broken by myself Zhang Tiantian tears up my brother's paper Zhang Tiantian tears up my brother's paper And scolded my mom And said our whole family All are down Our mommy earns money through labor Very honorable Germanium is still making excuses Fatherless child Really lacks discipline I declare Cancel your test score Let Zhang Futian be the first Let Zhang Tiantian be the first Zhang Tiantian did poorly on the exam Why be the first Shut up Zhang Tiantian is obviously A good kid with both good character and good academic performance Parents pay for it Build a building for the school What can your mother do? How to run errands for free on Xuezhan Your mother To lose money Class suspension What are you doing? Sir, this is Bai Tian Qi. Next to him is his brother Daytime gift Their mother Often throw them in Play in this paradise Although it took some effort to pay But I haven't been in arrears. We are here to help Take care of children Our place After all, it is high-end Children's Interactive Park We put customers first Good service Right? Is this child It's mine too Bai Qian you. Daddy ^ Daddy Don't recognize him He is a bad dad. I had a fight with my mom yesterday. Oh, you are Sister Chen Oh, you are Sister Chen We are in the luxury discount store Seen You work here? That That You are Teacher Zhang You are Teacher Zhang I'm not off work. Long shot photo Just relax, you know. So you guys are Two brothers beat up their classmate And also ruined Zhang Tiantian's Brand Phone Watches Bad nature I was about to report this to the principal. Cancel their grade ranking Cancel their grade ranking Let them stop classes immediately? My relationship with the principal Still pretty good We didn't fight I didn't break this watch. Why stop our class? Dare to talk back to the teacher Must be severely punished They are messing with Zhang Tiantian They are messing with Zhang Tiantian Zhang Tiantian's parents gave The school building cost 8 million If you can catch This rich man What kind of manager are you? This entire high-end club All yours No matter how good your study is Destroy other people's things You have to pay, too. Get your mother here quickly. Their mother is a Stinky errand boy What to compensate? How about this? Kneel down for me You don't have to pay YEAH JC Who is Dare to make my son unhappy DESP Just them I exposed them for cheating on the exam They smashed My phone watch Mrs. Zhang School Already cancelled Their test scores And to them All classes have been suspended. What is the use of suspending classes? This phone watch 10,000 yuan Thousands of dollars Can they afford the compensation? You two wild kids So brave Hurry up and crawl over to kneel down and apologize Otherwise, you will be fired. Otherwise, you'll be fired. Say it again How to apologize Who to fire Where did you come from? Dare to meddle in the affairs of these two wild kids Be careful, I'm not polite to you. Mommy said A child with a mother is a treasure Not a wild child Without a father, you are a wild child Is a private We have a daddy This is our daddy That's right These two They are all my children How are you going to be rude? What if I have a father? Break something Compensation to Until we are satisfied Isn't it as it should be? money Some are But I care more The truth of the matter Send the surveillance video to my phone the truth The truth is Your child cheats and hits others Kneel down and apologize Yeah Does my child hit anyone? Why don't you check the surveillance first? oops turn out to be Zhang Tiantian broke it himself. Phone watch At a young age Relying on the family's wealth Bullying classmates It's so abominable. Should be severely punished Your son is right. What else can I do? My son is unhappy. You have to apologize They don't kneel down Then you come Tell you My husband is not easy to mess with He is in Fu Group Working With Mr. Fu Liu is very familiar Just one word from him You can go from Haicheng disappear Coincidentally, I also work at Fu's Just you I can still work at Fu's Probably the same as your wife. A stinky bastard. Hahaha Stinky chores My husband will be here soon. Kneel down if you are bad But there's no chance. Daddy Can't kneel Mommy said Poverty cannot be changed Mighty and unyielding Rest assured Daddy doesn't kneel Which Blind dog eyes Dare to bully On my wife and child's head Animals Don't worry, Daddy won't kneel Who is blind? Dare to bully On my wife and child's head My husband is the one who messed with our son Unhappy You are a member of the lower class of society. Lower class it turns out How dare you bully me? You don't want to live anymore husband Call Special Assistant Liu! Fire him What He also works at Fu's right He is like his wife A lowly person who does odd jobs. snort Liu Tezhu The famous person around Mr. Fu Just one phone call from Special Assistant Liu You have to get out of Fu's A Get down on your knees now Forget about this matter Otherwise I'll let you Pack up and leave immediately Daytime Gift You are ranked first in the whole grade How is the article? You didn't drop my watch. How about Your whole family Lower than us Just kneel down for me Kneel down! You won't lose your job if you kneel down. Children also have books to read What's the problem? Yes Kneel down! Otherwise there's no way this will end. God's Prayer What your mom taught you is right. Daddy will teach you one more thing What? It will rain when the weather is crazy A mad man will suffer misfortune It will rain when the weather is crazy A mad man will suffer misfortune snort What a big tone! I'm crazy Where is the rain coming from? Where did this disaster come from? I have plenty of money. Just to bully you guys Social stinkers how You guys are not convinced? Who else are you? It's still you Who else Why dad Get up quickly husband you You stinky bastard Dare to lay hands on my husband You're done, wait for me. oops It hurts. It hurts. If you do something wrong, you should apologize I'll give you Last chance Why is this person so arrogant? The temperament is not like that of a laborer Could it be that in Fu's position Taller than me you You are at Fushi What does it do? His social bottom What can you do? Besides Which successful people Let your wife go Show up When running errands to feed the children snort He is just a Pretty boy A poor fellow working for Fu's family that is How many brothers are they? At school Don't dare to buy snacks The stationery I use is the cheapest My dog is better off than them. These two brothers The clothes are the cheapest. Street goods I don't know, I thought Where are the two little beggars? DESP Don't talk nonsense about NEVE Our mom is very good to us. In order for us to live Safe life She works hard to make money Let us be here too. The so-called A high-end place is waiting for her Although here Safety is safety But people are snobs Daddy Mommy earns Although not much But enough for us Eating and drinking dressing read Can give us a Warm home Your mom is great. You look down on the lower classes, don't you? Expelling Zhang Dafu and pursue legal action He is using the company's name Do evil Maliciously damaging the company's reputation Legal liability superior snort Have you watched too many short plays? So good at acting Fire me with one more word Hahaha You think Are you the president of Fu Corporation? My father's last name is Fu Daddy, are you Mr. Fu? Yes, I am Mr. Fu. Your father's last name is Fu Is your last name Bai or Mr. Fu? I think it's almost a false accusation. Chairman's instructions Treat this man well. Could he be Mr. Fu no This is not good. I have to invite the chairman. Didn't you just say Are you going to fire me? How come I am now Haven't been fired yet? Zhang Dafu, what are you doing? Liu Tezhu What wind brings you here? See? This is Mr. Fu. The famous people around me ? You are qualified to fire me. You are fired What What's going on I didn't do anything wrong You didn't do anything wrong You are in front of Mr. Fu Under the banner of Fu Group Do evil I didn't do anything wrong. you Could it be It's really Mr. Fu Mr. Fu Video of little master It has been handed over to the police I was wrong. Damn it. I'm a dog who looks down on people I can't spit out ivory You have a lot of Please forgive me this time. Please Just don't fire me Don't fire me Don't fire me. Don't fire me. Don't fire me. How could it be possible? Could it be They colluded Come to act? Kneel down quickly. Kneel down quickly. Kneel down quickly. Mr. Fu She is a woman I don't understand anything I'll help you vent. And you Kneel down quickly go to school I can't learn well. You can't be a good person. Give it to the two young masters Kneel down to apologize husband This is your own son. If he wasn't my own son I want to strangle him. It's all your fault. I just received Notice from the court Let me compensate Reputation loss of 500 million Still need to take away The company's staff room What husband The job is gone The house is gone Also I have to pay them 500 million. We are Working for a hundred years I can't make 500 million. Mr. Fu Mr. Fu Please Don't fire my husband. My son Can't live without a house I can't go without food. Mr. Fu I don't want to be a beggar sorry Sorry, Bai Tianci I shouldn't slander you. Cheating on the exam I'm sorry, Bai Tian I shouldn't say You are inferior people. Daddy, do you want it? Let Zhang Tiantian and his family Also run errands Mommy can give us Bring a good life They can certainly do it. Mommy said that there is no distinction between high and low occupations They should learn Treat everyone equally Do you know what to do? Know Know Our whole family I'm going to run errands. Have a good run First gentlemen Are you really Mr. Fu? Chairman This is the man No quality Fighting here The chairman called the police immediately Catch him YEAH Chairman This person Too unqualified. In such a high-end place like ours Fighting Also bullied Boss Zhang's child oops Chairman, why did you hit me? ah Shouldn't you hit him? Damn thing Feel sorry It's always me Poor management Chairman What are you doing? He's just a poor fellow. He is not Mr. Fu at all. Yeah, you must be. I was stunned by him. Why are you hitting me? I am from Ming Teng School Chairman You are really from Mingteng School Chairman That's right This high-end club and Ming Teng School is mine And this is Our school's wholly owned shareholder President of Fu Group Fu Youshen No He is really Mr. Fu What did I just think of? Let this kind of trend A scum who flatters the powerful and bullies the weak Beside the child Not only will it mislead the students It will also be ruined The entire education industry Mr. Fu I will inform the entire industry Never hire these two. Daddy You look so much like us. Is this really our daddy? In fact, the fifth sister is The one who looks most like Daddy God prays for sorry You have suffered so much. From today Daddy will definitely fulfill his responsibilities Daddy will definitely fulfill his responsibilities Will not let any Bullying you Daddy is awesome Then you will tell mommy Rob us? If you don't let us When I see Mommy We still won't recognize you. Daddy promises I won't let you Leaving Mommy ten years Bai Qian's entire youth All the blood All poured in These children Her dedication It's my life It's still unclear Fu Youshen Save Me You J Hey Miss Guo The drinks you ordered have arrived Please come and sign for it. you Ouch, this stinky errand boy Why is she the eldest daughter of the Bai family? Bai Qian What kind of lady is the star of death? What kind of lady is the star of death? The current eldest lady of the Bai family She just married my son. Soft White shallow You can't afford high-end wine You only deserve this Come, I'll buy you a drink Come, I'll buy you a drink Don't eat toasts Drink a penalty drink Visitors What are you doing? Don't touch me Let me go Hahahaha it's beautiful Sister Qianqian You are so beautiful today Best wishes to you and Brother Shengjing Happy Engagement This is our whole family together A gift for you Special thanks to your mother Lend us 50 million Help our Guo family We have survived this great crisis It doesn't matter Who made us good friends? Oh, Sister Qianqian Your ring is so beautiful This is my son The engagement ring I bought for Qianqian It's worth 50 million. Sister Qianqian You and Brother Shengjing A perfect match Wait till you two get married. You must let me be your bridesmaid. You must let me be your bridesmaid. good Shallow sound Wait till you pass the latch. Good days are ahead. Yo My sister also came to wish me Happy wedding to Shengjing! So lifeless How can I smile? Bai Yurou, get out of here! Bai Yurou, get out of here! You two dogs Aren't you afraid of retribution? Shut up, you bitch retribution My son and Rourou Happy The property left by your parents It's enough for both of them to live for a lifetime. Hahaha White shallow You must want to die now. You didn't protect your parents. A legacy for you I didn't protect your parents. The man chosen for you Guo Wanwan You have no right to talk about my parents. If it weren't for my mom 50 million for you Will my family have an asset crisis? My parents will be there Do you fall off the cliff after quarreling? In the final analysis You are harming us A member of a broken family Your parents' graves have been dug up. You're so nice Tell me this What did you say Brother Sheng Jing It seems that Sister Bai Qian I thought her parents He died accidentally falling off a cliff. Today is us A big day Why not just tell her the truth? Let her follow us. Celebrate Just my baby Just be happy Listen up, your parents. He didn't fall off a cliff. Your parents were me Brother Shengjing and I use stones Down Smashed to death in Bai Yurou Zhou Shengjing I want you to pay with your lives People at the wedding banquet now They are all rich or noble A few random words Just enough for you and your five The bastard dies ten thousand times Who can you make pay for? Zhou Shengjing When you started your business My parents sponsored you. They treat you as their own son. Same as raising That's how you repay a favor You're not a human being No poison, no hero That's right Your parents are good to me. But they don't intend to Leave the Bai Group to me What's the use of this kind of good? What's the point of me marrying you? They're wasting my time. They deserve to die. White shallow After all, your parents' death Or was it you who caused it? If it weren't for you Me and Brother Shengjing I won't know you at all Your parents White shallow You are a jinx to your parents. Death Star That's absolutely true. It's all my fault I didn't recognize you guys. Serious as hell That's the thing I regret most. One thing Parents My daughter is sorry. You're still crying White shallow I asked you to come to the wedding banquet Not asking you to come Touching my brow Dog couple Don't be complacent I see I didn't call you five bastards. Come to the wedding banquet together You're unhappy, aren't you? Don't worry, today is a happy day I will reunite your family Don't touch my child ring u JL If you dare to touch my child Give it a try I'll see what you can do. Within 10 minutes The five bastards Bring it to me I ring ah Interesting, really interesting Thousands of people love and support Miss White Now it's like this Ha ha ha ha Don't worry This is just an appetizer Wait until the five bastards come The fun has just begun. Then let's ignore her. Start the wedding first Lower part White shallow This was meant for you. But now I want to marry Your sister You, the sister Just be a good bridesmaid for Rourou Watch us exchange rings Daydreaming It's not your turn to refuse. Miss Zhu Bai and Mr. Zhou Happy wedding Have a baby soon The newlyweds exchange rings My sister, they are all laughing. Why don't you laugh? Is jealous of me Did you marry Brother Shengjing? I will laugh if you die You dare to curse me Let's see who dies first. Fu Youshen Save Me You just said who saved you It seems to be Fu Youshen That's the one The world's leading enterprise President of Fu Fu Youshen What? Fu Youshen is coming? That's right J JC White shallow You can call us with just one phone call We haven't seen Big Shot Is it possible? Have you ever run errands for him? White shallow You live for You dare to say anything. I'm not talking nonsense If you dare to touch my child A hair I'll bury you all. If you don't believe me, ask Cao Meiying. Can't tell Rourou The Zhou family offended Fu Youshen Already bankrupt What if Rourou regrets the marriage? The Zhou family is completely finished. Let's talk about this bitch Fickle Born a child I don't know whose species it is yet. Fu Youshen Qianmai I care about the lives of a few bastards. Is what Bai Qian said true? You speak There is nothing Did you hear that, bitch? You dare to cheat me I want you to die I am dying You will inherit the Bai Group I'll have to finish it too. What do you mean This is my company in Baishi Group Evidence collected It's useless I also made 100 copies I am dead This evidence will be regularly Send to police station The Bai Group you inherited Clear the night You dead girl Ten years ago I should kill you. White shallow I really underestimated you. fine Baby, don't be afraid Even if the Bai Group It was ruined And his grandfather's M Moser Group M Moser Group That's right is second only to Fu Group The world's second largest group Did you hear that? Want to threaten me Next life Qian Qian signed this contract 18 years later, M Moser Group You will inherit it. Mom and Grandpa I don't want to inherit this. M Moser Group I just hope you all All are healthy Ever since your brother Bai Tingxiu After being lost at the age of 5 You are the only one left at home This is the only seedling The property is not left to you Who to leave it to? But why You did this without telling your dad? That bastard Flirting outside I also took the things at home Leave all to Wild woman outside It hurt your mother mom Don't cry Without dad, there is still me. I will always be with you ^ J Mu Group is my grandfather A lifetime of hard work Bai Yurou Why do you think You are eligible to inherit It's come to this I'm not afraid to tell you Your grandpa He has recovered and returned home. Looking for you to inherit the Mu family Unfortunately When you were running errands today Death due to accidental fall Your five bastards I will throw it into the river. Feed the fish Then I It will be open and aboveboard Inherit the Mu family for you ? Let me tell you another secret. In fact, I am not Your father's bloodline My mother went there on purpose Seduce your dad Your brother Bai Yanxiu We Deliberately kicked out of the house Unknown Until now I can finally Send it to you personally Reunited in the underworld Bai Yurou you beast How to contact Mu Moser in the future Inherited Speech Zhou Shengjing Bai Yurou My child is going to get hurt. Even if you have 100 M Moser I can't protect you either. Yeah Hey, Brother Long The five bastards When to arrive All in the car. We'll be there soon. Dabao, run! Long Ge Bai Qian said The father of these bastards This is someone we cannot afford to offend. Big Shot Have you seen That big shot? Miss White is the future The successor of the Mu Group Supreme Who else dare not offend Did you hear that? now There is no one I dare not offend You just wait With your five wild species Let's reunite in the underworld Bai Yurou I beg you Just let my child go I can do anything you want me to do. Really? It's loud. Then you stay around here Climb a circle Climbing and barking like a dog You climb a circle I'll spare a wild one Cheap life Climb ah Ol sound I'll give you bones to eat Bai Qian, if you don't climb now I'll call you later. Those kids came to climb Wait until they finish climbing. I again Strangle them all I climb Yes Long Ge How did you become like this? What about those little bastards? I don't dare anymore. I don't dare anymore. I really don't dare Rourou is not well quick Let Bai Qian go! mom You are getting old and confused. The inheritance rights are coming soon. Why did you let her go? oops What do you know? Let him go soon. otherwise We can't run away. escape Where to escape Fu Youshen I just knew it You will come to rescue me Who was speaking just now? Who Come out if you have the guts Notifications Shenhao Hotel cleared Let the second and third brothers They come over Watch the show rice This is all arranged by you, right? Don't think Just find someone to save you. You are dead today! You Shen I'm fine How are the children? They are good Don't worry I'm taking care of Thank you Thank goodness for you You are a good mother to the kids. I can't be a bad dad. Now it's my turn Do what you should do. Do what you should do. What are you going to do? Protect your woman That sounds really nice. Looks good too It's a pity that he is mixed with Bai Qian Half of them are just freeloaders Eat soft rice White shallow They say I'm a freeloader. Are you happy? Unhappy Of course not happy They are a group Stupid arrogant thing what you up to You are with Bai Qian is equivalent to Hit Brother Sheng Jing in the face You hit Brother Shengjing in the face is equivalent to Slap Fu Group in the face as a result of Can you afford it? She didn't tell you It's the Fu family Did it bankrupt Zhou Zong? What did you say The Zhou family went bankrupt This little white face said Is it true? You damn old woman You dare to lie to me The husband I stole with great effort He is actually a pauper My life is ruined. fine It's ok baby us We just need to Bai Qian and those bastards Thousand We can make a comeback You are right. Tonight, the Shenhao Hotel is cleared Show Mr. Fu a show At all costs Unrelated personnel should leave immediately Otherwise, you will bear the consequences Otherwise, you will bear the consequences JL JC Unrelated personnel should leave immediately Otherwise, you will bear the consequences Otherwise, you will bear the consequences Chu Shao How are you today? Come here when you have time. These two people Making trouble on your turf We are planning Clean them up Chu Shao What you hold It's for our sister Yurou. Wedding gift? ah That's too polite. The two of you are The most honorable Haicheng duo Can you come to my wedding banquet I'm already honored. What is your identity? Do you think I should bring you a gift? Chu Shao Don't say such harsh words. Talk It's for people to hear. You beast Is it suitable? I don't deserve it I don't deserve it elder brother I just heard I've made you die without a complete body. Come Take my M5 Solved in 1 second Hey, bro. My sword is better. Clean and bloodless Who is this pretty boy? How to connect Both Chu Shao and Lu Shao call him brother Why Brother When is it more woman it's beautiful Hello Which Qianjin rings My home Got the certificate Got the certificate Okay, Bai Qian The wild man years ago You found them all You are really capable You clearly told me The one who plays Bai Qian is Old security guard But this man in front of me Look noble and extraordinary What can I do? Bai Qian gave birth to five children Who knows these kids' fathers There is also a big shot Fu Youshen Do you believe what she said? He is really Fu Youshen Such a great man Such a wonderful man I must grab it! Fu Shao You must not be Bai Qian's appearance deceived me It's not popular now What about takeaways? She might be Selling myself at home Otherwise, where would so many children come from? Like her Improper woman How to qualify Being a mother to your children? Only our sister Rourou If you can't speak Just shut up elder sister How dare you not admit it? You dare to say The father of the five children Are they all Mr. Fu? Five children f JL Of course I dare to say The child is Fu Youshen's Just can't be Fu Youshen's face is just elder sister Today is Yonago Don't build a memorial archway. There are many people outside who can take over Please give Mr. Fu to me perhaps I can still keep you alive Second Brother I heard you got married I haven't heard of it either. You have five children My sister-in-law gave birth to five This must be the gate of hell All trampled down This is the USB drive given by my elder brother. Said inside is About Miss Bai No need to look I just know She is the mother of my child. What kind of person is she? unimportant This USB drive is for you Brother, you should watch it now. Give me No need to talk nonsense with this kind of person No need to talk nonsense with this kind of person Get started The second brother is mighty It seems that the second brother is very kind to the eldest sister-in-law. It's true love, no doubt. Mr. Fu We were wrong Spare us. Please Let us go. Mr. Fu, please Leave us alone I can swear to God I and Me and Bai Qian There has never been anything Shallow You are a great man and don't bear grudges against small people. I I don't know Taishan You You Please let me go. son My teeth My teeth Shallow I beg you Let my son go. roll Wait a moment The killer is dead The transaction record is still there The police are at the door. I wish you a happy prison retirement well We confess our sins We are executed Go away son ah We just Just kidding you Just let us go. yes Yurou is your sister You can't Even if they deserve to die You're the first one to die. You dare You stinky rice ungrateful Should I fight? Unkindness and injustice Should I fight? Wonderful Unexpected woman Kitten appearance The inner tigress rings You talk to her angrily. Just kidding My brother isn't angry. What are you angry about? Because she is turn out to be I am Bai Qian's biological brother. I was more than 20 years ago Bai Yurou and her daughter The eldest son of the Bai family who was kicked out of the house Bai Yanxiu Today, Very badly hit The truth I'd better tell her later. Because she is my second brother's wife. I want to take my second brother's place Teach you a lesson Do you know Be respectful to your sister-in-law Brother, look My sister-in-law is also tired. I'll go help her etc. Currently It's when she needs to vent. roll well I'm rolling, I'm rolling Guo Wanwan It turns out that you and I were just pretending White shallow What do you want? Take her down to me. J Bai Qian, what do you want to do? I am the future Successor to the Mu Group Even Fu Dream your day M Moser Group It's my grandpa's hard work. What are you entitled to inherit? Wait till you die I am qualified But you can't wait That day Do you really think I'd be stupid enough to kill you And for your worthless life Go to jail So cool Second Brother You woman A character that will take revenge I like Thousand Mani You recorded Bai Qian Educate others video Thousands of It was my brother who asked me to record the video. Make a memorial Said to watch it repeatedly How is that possible? Big Brother vs. Second Brother's Woman So interested Required No recording allowed To see Let him come to the scene My second brother is right. Big Brother said You and Miss Bai If you are holding a wedding banquet He must be there Why It's strange Strange sound Big brother is so mysterious Forget about the photos. I haven't even heard my own voice. I haven't even heard my own voice. It's so Looking forward to attending Bai Qian's wedding Here I have chat records to prove it It's actually true Big Brother Yan Jiuding Second Brother You should go to Miss Bai Let's have a wedding banquet I can't wait I'm meeting my big brother. Counter You all get married So many years The children are all there Let's save some energy. She now I am not qualified to make it public. The two years I've known my brother This is the first time I see him so caring. Things other than making money White shallow What else have you been hiding from me? YEAH I go This big noise Second brother, you don't care about second sister-in-law It's okay She knows her limits Second Brother I see your expression This tone Also said Bai Qian is not worthy of you publishing Why I bet It won't take long It won't take long You have to chase your wife to the crematorium ha What a coincidence The eldest brother also bets that the second brother will Chasing Wife at the Crematorium Even if you have Mr. Fu's support You can't do anything wrong. If I die Just wipe your ass. Wait till you go to jail. Do you really think I'd be stupid? Kill you Then for your Cheap life Go to jail Want to die You wish But God has eyes Your mother died of illness. But Zhou Shengjing ran away But I kept You are still useful You jump from here I'll let you go otherwise I am like this Break your whole body into pieces I jump Stop hitting me. L JC Mount Hugui There will be consequences You don't understand I call this playing the long game to catch the big fish It's late. I need to go quickly Pick up children from school Go home and do homework Bai Qian, wait a minute. What's this This is a USB drive There is something you want to know You must watch it when you return. Please wait a moment My brother asked you to answer the phone Your elder brother is sure to let me take it Yes, it's you. Weird What is the situation Not sure My brother said I need to talk to Miss Bai. Second brother It seems Your girlfriend is very popular. Be more careful Hello Hello You find me Mommy, it's me Fifth Sister Mommy Don't let them hear it. I don't want to reveal my identity yet Bai Qingqing What the hell are you doing? How could you be Fu Youshen's elder brother It's me How can you be Fu Youshen's elder brother In fact, he is It's my daddy, I know. But he has to pass the test Only then can you be my dad So to speak Fu Bao and the others went to find Fu Youshen You support it too. Mommy, I know you are angry. But don't be angry first Someone will come to you soon. Become a M Moser Group Top female billionaires Take us to live in a big villa From now on, you will never have to worry about food and clothing By then, even Daddy No one is qualified to follow you. I have to listen to you. Um Let Fu Youshen be obedient Um Let's talk about it Bai Jie My eldest brother I told you everything. Your eldest brother said he would support me Also said Let Fu Youshen pass the test To reveal his identity I'm not qualified to make it public Your husband's identity White shallow Are you mistaken? YEAH C I'm not qualified Reveal your husband's identity White shallow Are you mistaken? Of course I wasn't wrong. If you don't believe me, go and try it. It's so late Where are you going? Of course I am Go back to accompany the children Accompany your children Do you know where the child is? Why did you go to bed without cleaning up? Thank you today The kids like you too. In this case Then you and the child Just move here don't want Where we live now It's pretty good You listen to me God's Prayer It's my Fu family's child. Only in Fu's Only the best resources You want them to be like you Struggling in the market Let those three bastards go My child can only stay at Fu's house What is your son? That's my son too. What is in Struggling in the Market Don't look down on people. Speak with facts To be admired Before you have the strength My children can only follow me As for the other three You take them to beg for food. I have no opinion either Good, good, Fu Youshen Let's see White shallow What do you want? Don't think too much I just want you to explain. Five children Why only four? J The fifth child that was not seen m) Bai Qingqing That's your big brother. Do you want to know? I won't tell you Are you going to say it or not? I won't tell you What do you do to me? Let's talk about the fifth sister It's not your child. Why should I tell you? You bastard Mommy and Daddy Are you kissing? Third sister and fourth sister You guys woke up Go home with mom quickly Thank you Send me and the kids back. Thank goodness for you elder brother U disk you looked at I'm sorry, sister. I'm late. Besides, when you were kidnapped Three years old Don't blame you We, brother and sister, joined forces These evil people must be Receive due punishment Um Let's get in the car and go Hello Chu Tingxiu You want to take my wife and children Where to go You can drive your wife and children away Can you not let me Send sister-in-law and nephew home Otherwise, in the middle of the night I threw them on the roadside. Send them home Can feed How can this be possible? Fourth sister Come out to eat soon. Otherwise, you'll be late for school. Mommy Only Big Brother can Lose weight and be lazy Bring back the big brothers That's it Sister, stop talking Mommy will be sad Then I will Let's not talk about my elder brother. The two of us I can also take good care of my mommy Don't worry, sister. Mommy has tried very hard. Make yourself stronger soon Our family of seven We can reunite. Eat quickly Otherwise, you'll be late for school. Send us Mommy, do you still want to run errands? It's cold today You need to wear more clothes. The third sister is so good But Mommy Today Not to deliver things. Go pick it up A gift for mom A gift for mom Island Average Shallow You have been wronged in these years. M Moser Group Almost fell into the hands of outsiders Don't say that, Grandpa. Be able to come back healthy It's already pretty good Mushi still needs you Grandpa has Alzheimer's disease Sometimes awake Sometimes confused M Moser Group I'll be relying on you from now on. younger sister I'll host a banquet tonight All celebrities in Haicheng To announce you M Moser Group The identity of the heir elder brother Grandfather There's no rush for this. I have other plans. Shallow What's going on? Tell Grandpa Grandpa will help you solve it This matter I have to do it myself Grandpa, you are still not well. Why are you going? I'm going to protect Qianqian. She put The high-ranking president is inappropriate I have to be a small employee I'm afraid of her Being bullied Grandfather Don't worry I have arranged my men. Tell them Be nice to newcomers This silly girl Why Qianqian is not stupid She didn't become an airborne president Instead, from the grassroots Climb up so More convincing oops It's still a thoughtful thought. Plus The black card you gave her villa She has 800 children. That's enough. It won't be hard My precious granddaughter Of course I will spoil you. She is also my sister I will feel sad too. Mr. Fu The two young masters The paternity test report is out. Congratulations Mr. Fu Indeed, Mr. Fu It's a father-son relationship Mr. Fu is not well. The old lady escaped from the hospital What One month left I'm about to have surgery. Where can she run to? The old lady saw The patient in the next bed A large family Talk about Mr. Fu If you don't If you get married and have children She She'll die outside. Mr. Fu It seems The matter of the two young masters It's time to tell the old lady. Bring Bai Qian back to the Fu family yes JC What did you say you say You and A Shen Already married She also gave birth to two children them They are all from Ah Shen Flesh and blood Actually, there are more than two Hey Look at what you eat Mouth full of oil I'll wipe it for you. If you dare to tell my mom You have 5 children I promise So you can't see the other 3 Fu Youshen The contract says You have to give me 1 million That's right As long as you move to Fu's Live for one year Not allowed during the period Dating other men Not even midnight Get in someone else's car You are talking about Chu Yanxiu, right? You know it's him He is me never mind Why am I telling you this? The contract also says I can't see you this year. Third sister and fourth sister There are five sisters I can't sign this contract. No, I haven't seen you for a year. Your three bastards They are not wild Is it wild? What does it have to do with me? Today's contract You don't sign Must also sign Fu Youshen You will be for your behavior Pay the price The decision made by me, Fu Youshen Never regretted it J mom Just Dabao and Erbao This is the child of me and Yu Shen. This is so nice I remember You have three children. They also Looks a lot like What's going on? oh mom That's Bai Qian's adopted child. They are all right That's all Bai Qian's relatives' children Why My relative But it's so miserable She met a scumbag Lied to her that she was pregnant Then the scumbag ran away My relative He jumped off the building and died. But This God has eyes Let that scumbag go out. By car Collide die Over So these children I'll have to take care of it. God has eyes Such a scumbag should die. right Damn I mean, where is the father of these three babies? What are you angry about? I didn't say you White shallow You are the one I have seen Kindest The greatest mother Um That's it. And you With five children Live in our Fu family Later They are all Our Fu family's children All called Ah Shen dad mom What are your comments? The three treasures and the four treasures Have seen They are all smart and well-behaved. You can be their father It's your blessing mom Fu Youshen The other 3 children Also call you dad It's your blessing White shallow Good means sound Actually coaxing my mother Acknowledge your three bastards Fu Youshen Please clarify My child is likable. Everyone loves it Who is like you? The brain is not open I just know that they are wild. Say it again Who has no brain? Mr. Fu The old lady is watching us. JL Old Lady It seems that Master I really like Miss Bai. It's only been a while since we kissed. We don't have to Matching Miss Gao and Master Although Gao Meilin is My best friend's daughter But to be honest Qianqian is ten thousand times stronger than her Qianqian and A Shen get married Not seeking fame or profit Raised 5 children silently In the future, if Ah Shen Dare to treat Qianqian badly I'm the first one to say no Miss Bai is really great But I heard Mrs. Liu Bring Miss Gao back to China I'm afraid I'll find you soon. Discussing engagement Good sisters reminisce about the past Can No other discussion Arrange a banquet quickly I want to announce shallow and the identity of two children after I am just a shallow supporter Who dares to cause trouble for Qianqian? Just looking for trouble with me Fu Youshen Who allows you Without my consent Just kiss me Then tell me first When will you let me kiss you? Don't give me this. Be fussy about words Do you believe it? I'll tell my aunt now Our fake marriage Then I can only do as I did just now Shut your mouth You don't My mom is hosting a dinner party. Public you With two children I'll pick you up later. Two children's identities revealed But Yes What happened in the car just now? They are my sons This matter Is it so shameful? I'm too lazy to talk nonsense with you Isn't this Mushi? What are you doing here? work I'm gonna be late I won't tell you anymore A small company like Mu How can it compare to Fu's? Notify Don't assign her too much work. My mom's there That's enough to keep her busy. Manager, what did you say? Mr. Fu's Woman Come to work in our department right Just now, Mr. Fu's special assistant Come and say hello in person and President Mu Also explain in advance Take good care visible The new employee His identity is unusual. strangeness Mr. Fu's wife Don't go to the Fu family, which ranks first What do you do at Mu Mo? maybe It's Fu and Mu To combine strengths So I sent Mr. Fu's woman Come and visit us Anyway, wait for the newcomers to come Who of you dares to be rude to him? I won't be polite to anyone Meilin, you are here. Manager Sun The person Mr. Fu wants to take care of Of course it's Meilin. She is Mr. Fu's First Love The kind of marriage arranged by finger Fu Youshen's First Love Arranged marriage Yaoyao, be low-key Meilin, do you still want to keep a low profile? But my strength doesn't allow it. Manager Sun Our Gao Meilin Miss Gao is under the name Countless luxury cars Ten years ago I'm always with Mr. Fu. Why Ms. Gao You really are Mr. Fu's fiancee How can I remember the above explanation? Newcomers to take care of The name is two words. That's right I do. Yu Shen's Fiancee He is this The character of acting first and asking for permission later There's really nothing I can do about him. Sorry for bothering you guys How could it be? It should be We've arranged it for you It must be her. Hello, I am What is Almost because of you Delayed important matters Nothing to see Hurry up and give it to Miss Gao Carry the things over I am a designer. Not here to serve people. You're new here, how dare you talk back? New here, don't be ungrateful. My sister Meilin But the daughter of a wealthy family Can serve you That's your blessing. Do you want this blessing? you Based on the relationship between Yaoyao and me You really can't let Yaoyao carry the bag Then you'd be nice. Let a stranger Carrying things for you It's okay if you don't carry it Just don't regret it. New Arrival Prepare this small gift Pick any Oh, Miss Gao, you are so generous. Meilin is so nice Thank you, Meilin I'm sorry. No, I didn't prepare any extra Otherwise I'll give it to you next time Oh, no need I'm busy with work first This new one I really don't understand the rules Meilin brought gifts. She came empty-handed Look at how shabby she is dressed. The gifts must be street goods. The latest bags from Ailushi Meilin I'll follow you from now on. Dogs in the pack If it wasn't for taking M Moser Group You guys Licking my shoes No qualifications Dogs in the pack If it weren't for Take over Mu Moser Group You even gave me I don't even have the qualifications to lick shoes. This Rou Rou Yi didn't pay any money The phone is still unreachable Go find Fu Youshen quickly No, Mom. Ever since Yu Shen knew I raised After the incident with the pretty boy Just warn me Never again Appeared in Haicheng In these ten years Phone Never called me. It's ok, dad2222 I'm afraid that Fu Youshen I'm about to kill you. We're all going to sleep on the street. How could he come to me? because You're about to become a fake M Moser Group Under Man The female CEO above 10,000 people I right It's you who moves, don't fight with me The president of the M Moser Group Have Alzheimer's disease Two days of amputation He just returned home He must In sober state Appoint M Moser Group inherit By your means The heir of the Mu Group You Are The One daughter Don't worry I have arranged it You go tomorrow Working at M Moser Group As for what to do next You know mom Just rest assured I will definitely When Mu Moser Group Heir Let Yu Shen change his mind about me Hello mom I have good news for you. Fu Youshen still has feelings for me Yeah Of course He knows I want Join M Moser Group I'm looking for someone to take care of me. No wonder Fu wants to invite celebrities from all walks of life Attend a dinner Said to officially announce an Big News I guess it's I'll confess to you publicly. real Very good You Shen I know you still love me It's both a wedding and a dinner party. So sincere I'll give you this chance Grandfather elder brother Mr. Bai Working in your own company How does it feel? Grandfather m) I just need a little bit Feeling in the company good Too many questions It is hard to explain in a few words Let me check it out. It's not too late good Just adapt younger sister Tonight Bring your kids to my house for dinner I'll show you my hands elder brother I have something tonight. How about we make an appointment tomorrow? good See you tomorrow then good Bye-Bye Why That white light Is there any background? There is a man Driving such a luxurious car to pick him up She has a shitty background I've inquired about it. She used to run errands. And it's still a 1 person pillow of rubbish Gave birth to a bunch of wild children Everyone doesn't know Who is the child's father? Unexpectedly This white light behind the scenes So despicable The two men just now He must have caught the idiot. It is suitable for all ages Are you too busy? You Jiajia Yaoyao Let's go and persuade Bai Qian. After all, we are colleagues She does this Not only is it bad for her It will also affect the company Shame together Meilin You are so nice White shallow Where are the two guys who picked you up? I would rather walk on my legs Do you think the price is too low? Zhang Yaoyao Heart of man Everyone is dirty Don't move after get off work I've already received it, kid. Come pick you up now I am here Zhang Yaoyao Are you sick? You are sick Gave birth to five children Played with by men *How dare you say I'm dirty Meilin You see, I was right. She actually gave birth to five children. A bunch of wild species. This broken shoe Mr. Mu How could I possibly see it? I must have seen it wrong. Yaoyao This privacy How can I watch it casually? White shallow I apologize to you on behalf of Yaoyao She just I'm afraid you've come into contact with too many men. Got a stomach disease It's too late to regret. Ms. Gao You just said What disease do I have? This one also recorded And there's a video Just kidding. Why so serious? IN ah White shallow Don't think you know me. Driving a Porsche I can support you Our sister Meilin's boyfriend It's much more powerful As soon as he opened his mouth How did you die? I don't know Don't bother Meilin. I'll call the police straight away Let the police take care of her How can we just call the police? Like Miss Gao No invitation Hundreds of media outlets are coming. Just right You can put this Give them as evidence White shallow Your own recording How can there be three of us? Is the testimony credible? This can not only record You can also video Bai Qian, we are colleagues. Why make it so embarrassing? How dare the stinky woman go against me Look at my inheritance After M Moser Group How can I let you die! Just now Who said to call the police? Do you want I'm helping No, no, no, no, no, no White shallow As compensation I invite you Go to my party How about it Meilin What's her grade? Why does she participate? Fu's Dinner yes Meilin That banquet It's to propose to you. You invite this kind of person Isn't that a killjoy? fine Otsuka is People from Mu Group Of course unity and harmony Share the blessing You said I Is that right? What you said makes sense But tonight I don't have time Meilin Take a look This person has no qualifications at all Go to the party That's right, Meilin. We all want to see Fu's arrangement If you can see The most noble man in Haicheng That's it Meilin After tonight You are Mrs. Fu. Don't forget us in the future White shallow You are an ignorant person. I've spent this night See how I deal with you An errand boy Whimsical Who do you want to fire? On the water J Whimsical Who do you want to fire? I'm not saying Aren't you allowed to pick me up? Don't let me come I want the guy named Chu to come. What nonsense are you talking about? You didn't see me Did you go there on your legs? Oh yeah God sent them The children were sent home. I want to see them soon. Get in the car right away. You squeeze me Know to squeeze Why don't you sit next to me? Drive Do you think I'm a private car driver? You say open it. I didn't ask you to come here It's you It's you What are you doing What else can you do if you obey traffic rules? There are many people like Mr. Fu. Mr. Fu has come all the way Mr. Fu has come all the way Pick me up after get off work I'm afraid I Legs not reaching Your Mr. Fu's home Mr. Fu is the world's The most gentle The best person Wow What a luxurious car The person in the car seems to be Bai Qian White shallow Are you dazzled? Why is Bai Qian here? Lamborghini It's almost the same if it's Meilin I figured it out The only one in the world Four Lamborghinis All of them are from the Fu family I heard recently We also specially customized a Diamond and gold There is only one in the world. I can't hide it from you This one is also Yu Shen specially customized it for me Since Youshen tonight Are ready to confess to me That car must be Give it to me. Ah Shen, are you Be prepared for a surprise Just wait for me I'm ready tonight Officially become your woman I love you, A-Shen What are you hiding from Where is it on you? Or something I haven't seen? You drank too much that night You can't remember Are you sure What do you want? I remember you that night It's still as beautiful as it is now Such a sweet mouth You were drunk I still ate honey Just try it and you will know How much alcohol did you drink? You control me Such a happy day Can't I drink more? What are you happy about? Marry your first love My wife gave me Gave birth to two big fat boys I am a winner in life. First Love right You are my first It's my only one The only one So many years you You have to be responsible for me Do you know You are good and others Three more children were born It's late at night Get in someone else's car Yanxiu is not someone else Besides You faked the marriage first. That's why I kept it a secret What do you want to do? I'll say it again I'll only say it once I won't allow you to Smells like another man You can only belong to me I don't Actually, I lied to you The five children Actually, they are all yours JC JL Seeing you for so many years For the sake of keeping oneself clean I don't care Your overbearing terms back then Tell you all the truth Besides M Moser Group Be my backup He can't take the child away. Fu Youshen? How did you fall asleep? Mr. Fu, we have to Oh Sorry, Mr. Fu Excuse me Miss You continue Old Lady Three Treasures Call your parents to go Dabao and his friends They're all waiting in the car. Miss Three Old Lady Mr. Fu and Ms. Bai Something's happening now Temporarily inconvenient How can this be possible? What's important? To hide it from my family Daddy and Mommy must be here Hugs and kisses Very good Mommy wants to give us Sixth sister was born oops This is indeed a big deal. Can't go in Liu Tezhu You must watch this place. No one is allowed to disturb Three Treasures and Four Treasures Let's go I can hug you right away The sixth grandson White shallow This is the Fu family's dinner. How dare you come uninvited? Meilin sister invited you but you didn't come You want to sneak it yourself Shameless You can't spit out ivory from a dog's mouth Can't speak Just shut up How dare you, woman, talk back? You really owe me a lesson. YEAH White shallow Yaoyao is just kindly reminding you No invitation Will be kicked out Otherwise Please give me a good apology Even if this matter is over I'll take you in. How about it Did you hear that? Our sister Meilin I'll take you in when I'm happy. Otherwise, with your poor appearance Don't even think about coming here in this life Such a high-class banquet Look at your outfit It also cost a lot of money If you don't want to waste your efforts Just give it to Meilin Kneel down and kowtow to apologize White shallow Today is my good day As long as you can kneel down Apologize to me I can keep you safe. Why doesn't Bai Qian kneel? Do you want me to help you? You dare to hit Jiajia? His fiance is Manager Sun Bai Qian, you are dead. Don't run I'll let my boyfriend Come to deal with you To clean me up OK I'm waiting here Hello, husband Help! Someone is bullying me. White shallow You really are No tears until the coffin but Today, as long as you give me Kneel down and apologize I can keep you safe. What's your identity? Teach me here oops White shallow You are so brave. Our sister Meilin But in the future, Heir The lowest level intern How dare you offend Future CEO Don't you want to live anymore? Future CEO you That's right Now that you know Just be interesting Apologize Even if this matter is over How about it Meilin, stop talking nonsense to her. What's her grade? I'm not even worthy of carrying your shoes. What a coincidence President I also Hello Fu Youshen What's up We'll talk later. You are on the phone with Fu Youshen How is it possible? She must have seen Manager Sun is coming. I'm scared. Deliberately acting to scare us It must be fake Who doesn't know yet Mr. Fu and our sister Meilin A pair I also specially prepared Today's banquet Come and propose to Meilin Who are you? Fu Youshen is going to be at the banquet Propose to her Who said that? Needless to say You can figure it out with your toes Mr. Fu wants to marry Of course Meilin Gao, President of M Moser Is it possible that I still have to ask you this? A poor guy is proposing White shallow I'll kindly remind you Although Yu Shen has outstanding abilities Handsome and considerate All women The perfect man everyone wants to marry But with your status I want to see him once in my life It's all luxury But I am different He and I were engaged In addition, my Mu Group The identity of the heir What do you have to snatch a man from me? Or You want to make one Everyone scolds Xiaosan Are you sick? Who is the one without eyes? Who is bullying us? The successor of the Mu Group J Yang Ge is her Bai Qian, you're done. How dare you bully On Miss Gao's head Ms. Gao You calm down I'll call now. Please ask Mr. Mu See how to clean this up. A woman who doesn't know her place Call your boss Mu over. See how he handles me. White shallow What is your identity? It's not worthy of asking President Mu to come over. White shallow You must now Scared to death White shallow Since you know you're scared Then you kneel down and apologize I can still read it in our For the sake of our colleagues Don't tell Mr. Mu You did those things before how Are you blind or stupid? Where do you see me being scared? Not afraid Then you dare Should I call Mr. Mu? What am I afraid of? To be afraid of It should be you Just A dead duck is still stubborn I'll kill you completely. Manager Sun Let me wait Let's talk to Mr. Mu on the phone. Hello, Ms. Gao Wait Now you regret it It's too late It's only been a few days I can be with Mu Hongde Started talking Keep going like this The successor of the Mu Group Location It's Me Hey Uncle Mu The thing is this There is a girl named Bai Qian she What You want to call her Ding, you are extraordinary How can good yes Why No need Grandpa really can't keep his cool White shallow Would you really Do you know Mr. Mu? It doesn't matter whether you know me or not He's coming soon anyway. How is it possible? Miss Gao is really famous Mr. Mu said he would be there soon. It seems It's for Miss Gao. Vent See? Our sister Meilin Not only Mr. Fu's woman Still, Mr. Mu has to take care of it. darling White shallow You should now Meilin must be so jealous. Just now, I pretended to know Mr. Fu. Now I don't want to say Mr. Mu I'm here to help you. You are right. Oh, did I hear that right? You said Mr. Mu I'm here to stand up for you. I'm dying of laughter. White shallow It is important for people to know themselves Although you and I They are all new employees. But M Moser Group It's the pinnacle for you Tell me It's an easy starting point You don't know yet? My mother and Mr. Mu Close relationship And Mr. Mu has already promised me M Moser Group Let me be the heir White shallow Did you hear that clearly? Like you The stinky errand boy at the bottom How can you follow us? Of noble birth Compared to Meilin not to mention Meilin Still Mr. Fu's woman It was appointed by President Mu. Successor to the Mu Group White shallow I advise you Have some self-awareness. Now give us Meilin Kneel down and lick the shoes stop Mr. Mu Uncle Mu You are finally here You won't come again Bai Qian is such a jerk I'm going to push you up the nose Bullied Miss Gao to death Yes, Mr. Mu White shallow How dare you bully me The successor of the Mu Group You must take her Industry-wide notification White shallow Look for it quickly. Your battery lunch Ready to go back Run errands Mr. Mu Bai Qian, she really Too disrespectful. Often talks back to me Ms. Gao You are instructing me Fire Bai Qian No No I'm just suggesting Teach her a lesson In this way Establish the company's prestige Make the company more united and orderly Healthy Development Right? Mr. Mu is strict in discipline I say this Guaranteed to satisfy him This heir It's Me Bai Qian, what do you think? I think now that Miss Gao said the company is unhealthy Then our department Just disband on the spot White shallow What nonsense are you talking about? superior Bai Qian, what nonsense are you talking about? White shallow Thousands of elites in our department Can you just break up? Who are you? Mr. Mu You and my mother Such a good relationship Why should you care? This shallow view Bai Qian, you are a rice glutton If you dare to compare with me Hook up with President Mu first I want your life. Ms. Gao Who is your mother? What's her relationship with me? What Mr. Mu, you and Miss Gao are not familiar with each other. As President of M Moser Group Busy day Why should I Get to know an intern no Mr. Mu, this Bai Qian She is also an intern Why are you so familiar? Why Because Bai Qian I appointed it. Successor to the Mu Group How is this possible? impossible She's just a stinky errand girl What are the qualifications? Being the successor of the Mu Group I see I see Has she already done it? Your mistress Oh my god Bai Qian wants to get promoted Can you sleep with me? Grandfather's generation Bai Qian, you are too disgusting. Could it be that he took advantage of President Mu You have to force yourself to do this because your legs and feet are inconvenient. A bunch of dirty-minded people Damn thing Miss Gao, you and your mother Sent to my email Those sexy videos Just as disgusting Bai Qian, let's go Don't be like this Affects the mood Ms. Bai I was wrong I am blind and deaf I'm a dog who looks down on people It turns out that Mr. Mu Someone who I care about It's you Mr. Fu asked me to take care of someone It's you too It's you from beginning to end Ms. Bai, I was wrong. Ms. Bai, I was wrong. Please forgive me this time. Start: Yang Ge Is what you just said true? Mr. Fu and Mr. Mu Someone you need to take care of Always White nonsense Yu Shen and I were engaged since birth He knows I'm going Working at M Moser Group How is it possible? No one takes care of me But to take care of this The lowly Bai Qian Shut up You are a traitor I have never seen You are so shameless You've done a lot of harm to others. Brother Yang, calm down first. Gao Meilin Tonight's Fu's banquet Celebrities Gathered As long as you can Take us in Meet some big names How about we forgive you? Meilin, I heard Mr. Fu's mother At the dinner Announce a big event I guess She must be thinking Get you and Mr. Fu back together in this way Even if you are not Mu Heir It is also the world The most honorable Madam Mu That's right, Manager Sun. Did you hear Even if I'm not The successor of the Mu Group So am I Mrs. Fu Group You dare to disrespect me again? Start Let's go Want to follow me in? Let's go together Hello, please show me your invitation letter Invitation I am Gao Meilin I'm here to attend Fu's banquet What invitation letter do you need? No invitation, no entry This is an order from above. Please go back That white light Why can I get in? Bai Qian is a member of the Fu family What are you? joke How could Bai Qian possibly It will be the Fu family Miss Bai is indeed Mr. Fu designated to take care of You're full of liars. Harmful I'll strangle you stop Mom, you're finally here. Shallow Don't believe Gao Meilin. The Master of Hu I don't at all I don't know her. Her so-called friendship But she's her mother. Been my caregiver Later I was fired. Shallow You have to believe Mushi is always yours Your brother thinks so too. Grandfather Know You and my brother are the best to me. It seems necessary External cloth Otherwise it is inevitable This happened Grandfather How about we find a time? Hold an inauguration banquet good Shallow You finally want Published identity I will now People go to prepare Look at what you eat. Mouthful Who was that person just now? Why are you so nice to him? You take care of me I am your husband Of course I am qualified to manage you. Quick Talk Who was that wild guy just now? It makes you bold Seduce in front of me Fu Youshen You don't have a brain, do you? Everyone I see looks like a wild man In the eyes of others You are the wild man I don't care about your past. But starting today You are my Fu Youshen's woman Your child You can only call me dad I'll be the third one It's my own. When the biological Fu Youshen Please clarify My child I don't need your pity When did I say I pity you. I love you Love your children I want to be with your family I want to be with your family Reunion Have questions? Hello, everyone! today The Fu family invites everyone Come to this event Just to announce two things. yes Today we are Fu family Found the displaced Two young masters They are my sons Fu Youshen's own flesh and blood The Fu family will start from today Put them Written into the Fu family genealogy Officially recognize them The identity of Fu's descendants JL Mr. Fu actually has a child And also on This news is so explosive I heard that the descendants of the Fu family From birth You can get a sum A lot of wealth There are three What a coincidence Mr. Fu's ex-girlfriend Miss Gao just returned to China Will she It's the child's mother The following announcement Second thing It's my Fu family The mother of these three children My Fu Family The daughter-in-law Her name is Bai Qian She is a Gentle and beautiful girl Gentle and beautiful girl What are you hiding from Mom is calling you Just respond. Today we have this part Why didn't you tell me? How come I don't know It's a surprise Our Fu Family Every daughter-in-law has Our Fu family gave birth to a boy Reward 200 million Mom is going to give you an award. Fu Youshen A reward of 200 million for giving birth to a boy What is our daughter? I am Your Fu family Fertility tools We also have a daughter Please explain it to me clearly. Who says girls are nothing? Our Fu Family A reward of 200 million for giving birth to a boy 400 million yuan reward for giving birth to a girl Now it's your turn to speak. Our Daughter What does it mean? What's wrong with this kid? Look unhappy It's really rare This leak There are still people who don't love money The young couple is in love Ah Shen also confirmed Bai Qian is My Fu family's mistress The mistress of the Fu family She also deserves This matter I'm the first one to say no JC Xiaohui What do you want? Mrs. Fu I once risked my life to save you And I'm sworn brotherhood with you You forgot You yourself Arranged marriage Said to wait until Ah Shen grows up Marry our Meilin I know about this feeling. Can't come But who can you find? Must find White light such goods She doesn't deserve it at all Your Fu family Aunt Liu Bai Qian Really not worthy of Yu Shen Yu Shen knows the truth You will definitely regret it Meilin Ai Hui You all know What's the matter? Speak Up I want to hear it too Why do you say that? I'm not worthy of Fu Youshen You still dare to be stubborn Look Here is the evidence Come and see Look at this white light How Low Disgusting Doing some dirty things See if you dare to be stubborn White shallow The two men in the photo Who is Aunt Liu This is normal communication My brother It's me Ouch Nowadays, girls say Brother Godfather Climbed up at night Other people's bed Sexual relations between men and women Still communicating normally Are you kidding me? Aunt Liu, look The guy with white beard in the photo He is the president of the Mu Group. It is said that Bai Qian Come out of his office the next day From an errand boy A sudden change Became the heir of the Mu family White shallow Is this true? The evidence is here Bai Qian, stop making excuses. Xiaoxia, look Why don't you understand? What about this person? that is In bed I am happy to serve you. Just sat down President of M Moser Group Aunt Liu Bai Qian's other three children She didn't adopt them. But she Secretly gave birth to a child with a wild man In order to marry into the Fu family You even own You even own Even my own flesh and blood are not recognized You are so cruel What White shallow The three children Is this true? Xiaoxia Stop daydreaming. This woman But I just don't know After several hands Just junk White shallow I advise you Hand over the inheritance right now. otherwise Let these photos Announce to the public Let everyone see How despicable is Bai Qian? White shallow You should hand over your inheritance right now. Otherwise, when things get out of hand The children have no face to live as human beings What It also affects children Of course, Aunt Liu White shallow You should hand over your inheritance right now. otherwise It will affect the children Fu Youshen Do you think so too? mom I knew it a long time ago The other three children Not mine But I love Bai Qian No matter what her past was like She is my wife A Shen you You are confused Can't You can't take the Fu family Hand it over to such a woman I can't her Entering the Fu Family In this case Then what about your Fu family's door? I won't climb high. Xiaoxia Look They have Mushi in their hands I don't even look at it. Your Fu family White shallow I didn't expect you to be this kind of person. I didn't expect you to be this kind of person. you are you mad at me mom Oh, look. Auntie was so angry that she fainted White shallow You're an executioner. today If you don't give up your inheritance Don't even think about going out. JL doctor The old lady temporarily It's okay. But you must pay attention Don't let her be stimulated Understood A Shen You are so cruel Watch Bai Qian kill your mother that is Bai Qian went too far What did she do that was excessive? You Shen I'll just explain it once Photo thing They slandered me Do you believe it or not? The old lady just woke up I want to see you. I want to see you. good You wait here first I'll talk to you later Still don't believe it Is this a difficult answer? Not now When talking about this issue White shallow Look My words You can fall out of favor. Sensible You quickly Hand over the inheritance rights of the Mu family I'll let you live this life Can't see Your children Then I'll give it a try you Mom, look at this woman. If she doesn't hand it over What to do about inheritance rights? But it's just a Just a hypocritical woman In a few days M Moser Prepare a banquet for her inauguration Mom has already thought about it. A way for you to snatch the heir snort Okay, stop looking. It's late. Go to bed. Mommy This doll belongs to my eldest brother. Mommy Do you think about him when you sleep? Third sister and fourth sister Mom lets you No more daddy Will you blame your mother? It's enough to have a mother who loves us The third and fourth sisters are so well behaved The fifth sister is also great She returned home in a few days. There will never be Dare to bully us Um The fifth sister is also great Okay, okay. Lie down and sleep now Cover yourself with the quilt. Fu Youshen Wait till you know Your respected brother Actually, she's my daughter. Will it I want to buy a piece of tofu and crash into it Hate Fu Youshen Hate you You say you hate it That Night You like it very much. Fu Youshen What are you doing here? I'm here to tell you I believe you Because as long as you are not blind You can see it I am better than any man As long as I am here You can't look at others You are a narcissist Is Auntie okay? She's fine but I'm not. Where can you be bad? Are you feeling unwell somewhere? ring I'm thinking The words you said to me Which sentence That sentence Our daughter Well You remembered it wrong That's for sure. I was chatting with my husband. oh Your husband Not coming back every night Not afraid Are you in danger at home? He'll be back soon. Be careful he hits you What to do I want to show you something The paternity test of the third and fourth sisters They are all My child, right? Including the fifth sister It's my child too, right? right They are all your children But they are all I brought him up by myself You can't come Just snatch them away. You know I've been How much suffering have you endured? How much sin did you suffer? Did you know I know I know all I'm late. sorry You come with me What? Come and you will know Dabao Erbao You put them Sent back to me Not sending it to you. It's around us They are our children That You don't sign this with me. What a broken contract I cheated you and me From now on, it's all invalid Fu Youshen, please keep your voice down Don't wake them up right We have to go back to our room. I have given birth to 5 children. The belly is no longer That was the way it was back then. White shallow In your heart That's me A superficial person? I love you Love is more than just your body And your soul Your Gold Department Fu Youshen I now declare I love you too Oh no! Oh no! The children are late for school Thank you for your hard work last night. child I've sent them all to school. My company has something going on Come back as soon as you're done I'll bring it back to you. Your favorite strawberry cake Why are you still here? Why am I not here The children were sent to school. Breakfast is also prepared for you I owe you in the past I will give you Compensated Ouch What's wrong? Are you sick? Not sick I see I'll get you some brown sugar water. Oh no Actually, that Then you're still running around Sit down now Fu Youshen actually Last night was my last night in ten years first I know that's why I Why Okay, I know. You eat breakfast at home I'll buy you some medicine. Wait for me at home. You Shen, come back White shallow Yesterday you ran fast. today I wonder where you're going. Bitch Remember me? You two do this. Fu Youshen I will let you go I won't let you go. It's you who are fickle It's you who are fickle Seducing your ex-husband into bed If Fu Youshen comes back Wouldn't you die faster? Hahahaha Hahahaha Come What to do What did you give me to drink? Drinking can make Something that you and your ex-husband enjoyed White shallow Enjoy it Fu Youshen immediately I'm coming back If you know what's going on, Let me go now How could Fu Youshen Come to your lousy place You dare to touch me? The woman who can taste Fu Youshen What does it taste like? Even if I die in this life Worth it White shallow You are not the favorite Was it recorded? Happy ring Give positive response Ha ha ha ha Come on, laugh! What are you going to do? Ha ha ha ha Help! Help! Life-saving ring Help! ring White shallow Fu Youshen He's like this. You still want to let him go, don't you? I was drugged. It's so hard now White shallow What are you going to do? I want revenge for my parents. Tooth for tooth Bai Qian, you crazy bitch This time I beat you mercilessly What are you going to do? White shallow stop White shallow White shallow I was wrong ah You want to die No door I'm going to turn you into trash Slowly torture you Keep you in pain Slowly feel Then I'll send you to hell I will do as you wish Let him live in pain You Shen Thank you Avenge my parents for me There is no peace here You and the children Why don't you come back to Fu's house with me? Need not I have another home in South City Average price of one billion Nancheng Manor is your home Mr. Fu still hasn't Find out the identity of the lady But I found some other I don't know Mr. Fu Do you want to listen? You don't want the job anymore Madam in South City Manor There is another home Average price 1 billion Nancheng Manor is her home Yes, I investigated. The methods are more powerful than the FBI But I still can't find it Other news about Madam So mysterious really It seems that someone deliberately Hiding Miss Bai's background Go down yes Big Brother I heard you know Bai Qian's life story Grandpa is handsome Tonight is your inauguration banquet Grandpa designated you to be proud You for a moment Clean up well too. I'm going to pick up the kids from school good But I think before I take office Pay tribute to my parents OK Go early and return early See you that night I said, ladies Don't get upset. Hey Huier If I were earlier Understand what you are saying Bai Qian would not use her child It's been tied down like this Aunt Liu, this is not your fault. Blame Bai Qian The Woman The city is too deep Obviously, these children It's the bloodline of the Fu family. But I just refuse to Send the child back You really treat your children as cash cows. I heard that Bai Qian I'm going to attend the inauguration banquet tonight. To announce his The identity of the heir He is so double-faced. Don't you feel something is wrong? Bai Qian, could it be M Moser at Fu Group Corporate espionage She dares She wants to dare to fight Fu's idea I let her die Mr. Fu Tonight, M Moser Group To be the wife Hosting a dinner for his inauguration Prepare the car yes Parents I've taught you a lesson. That ungrateful Zhou Shengjing Tonight I will take over Mu Help you M Moser grows Rest in peace. ah Big Brother Returns Don't give me a photo first. Wait, I can't recognize it. what to do I'm not spending time Was it delayed for half an hour? Why are you here so early? I don't have time to rest. What a beautiful little princess! How can you Talk to strangers Aren't you afraid that I'm a bad uncle? What little princess? Why Fourth brother, look Is she The more I look at it, the more it looks like Yu Shenxiang Why Don't say it. Don't say it. Brother, look at her Does it look like you? It can't be your illegitimate daughter. I won't even if you have an illegitimate daughter Dear JL Qingqing, are you Bai Qingqing? You are Qianqian's daughter. Fifth sister Second brother, third brother You all know this girl. This signal is not good. I just received a message from my brother. It was delayed for half an hour. Now that I have received That's it. Don't be happy too soon. Before passing the test You can't be my daddy turn out to be You are really our big brother. Second Brother Our hacker list The first mysterious brother She's really your daughter. Didn't you hear? Failed all tests I can only be the second brother What's going on? You return home Your mom doesn't know If my mom knew How can I test you? Mommy's in trouble What's going on? I gave it to my mom The phone is equipped with positioning software Now the position suddenly deviated Mommy must have had an accident. Second Brother Your ultimate test is here. Within hours I have to find my mommy back. f In this Sign the inheritance contract Otherwise I will kill you directly I can sign But you have to let me go first. OK As long as you cooperate with me Obtain the inheritance rights of the Mu Group You and your mother The Bai family went bankrupt. Your mother is dead You are now continuing to harm the Mu family. That's right Why You will inherit the Mu family. My mother and I worked hard M Moser Group It should be ours Do you sign? I won't sign it. Do not sign OK Wait till you die I can still get it Money from Mu Moser Group Don't dream I'm dead, but I still have a brother What You lied to me Your brother is not Has he been missing for more than ten years? Found it early Or you yourself Send him to me He is the eldest son of the Chu family. Chu Tingxiu What Why Why are you born rich? Why Your parents love you so much Why do you do whatever you want? You can find a wild man. Big CEO Go to hell I kill you Wait till you die I'll make you look like me By that time Your brother Your men are mine. Wait, come to me if you have something to say What happened to Qianqian? Why doesn't she answer the phone? Did you find it? I have searched everywhere but can't find it Oh, this is bad. So many people were invited tonight. Everybody is waiting for me M Moser Group What about the heir? Mr. Mu, you look But not very happy Are you not feeling well? I was your caregiver. Although he was fired But looking at For the past I can still help you My Body You don't have to worry about it. Besides, I advise you Don't think about Mu's Otherwise I will be rude to you mom Look at this thing He simply I didn't worry about you Then how can I be The heir of the Mu Group He doesn't put me in What's the matter with the heart? As long as my niece Bai Yurou Isn't it enough if you succeed? Wait till Bai Qian dies. I have a way Let you be this The successor of the Mu Group JC Mr. Mu, what's wrong with you? you Go find Qianqian quickly Something must have happened to her. Mr. Mu, you Leave me alone Go quickly Yes. Mom, you actually Get this old man He won't die. No, no You, you come here You go grab his hand Press here Just a few handprints. Go! Hahaha Oh, that's great. With this M Moser Group It's ours. This time I look at Fu Youshen How can I still look down on you? The banquet is about to begin You go dress up The official announcement will be made shortly. You are M Moser Group Future heir not good My grandpa was poisoned. I'll call the doctor. Grandfather He* JL Shallow What's wrong with me? Grandfather You are poisoned But the doctor Already processed You just need to rest The body is fine. Shallow Leave me alone Go to the banquet hall I want to announce Your identity as the heir of the Mu family No need for banquet It ended a day early. Liu Aihui and Gao Meilin With a fake contract Impersonated me Damn sound Damn sound Shallow Grandpa is useless. Last time they took advantage of When I was unconscious Forced me to sign I'm going to sue them. Put them in jail Grandpa, take care of your health first. Wait a minute, I've I figured out a solution. M Moser Group is You and your mother's life's hard work I won't let it fall In someone else's hands good You've figured it out. That's right Must let that Two evil mother and daughter Deserve the punishment Don't worry, grandpa. JL JL The fifth sister's eyebrows Just like when you were a kid appearance so cute It's a pity that Bai Qian is not a good person mom Shallow, she is very good Me and the kids Can't leave her What's good about her She won't let the child see you. You killed your father. I haven't seen Sun Yu from the Fu family either. She just let your dad The accomplice who died with his eyes wide open mom Don't blame her In the past it was because I want to fake marry her. That's why She didn't dare to lose her family Only with children Wandering outside Because of my dominance She didn't dare Let the children recognize me Now the misunderstanding is resolved It won't happen again. Fu Youshen You still have some conscience. Know my difficulties Also understand my hard work You must have been bewitched by her. Gao Meilin It's with you Engaged couple Besides She became the Person in charge You and I are a match made in heaven yes Gao Meilin's mother I saved you when I was young. But these years Our Fu Family I've given them a lot. Should not take My marriage is a big deal. If you say This life What else do I wish for? That is to ask for one Ask for a white light Gao Meilin for you Got them all The identity of the Mu family's successor Why you To prefer a disaster star You are so stupid You are so stupid Gao Meilin for me Take over Mu Moser Group That's right Gao Meilin knows M Moser Group It is of great significance to Fu So I grabbed it for you. IN White shallow You still have the nerve to come to work at Mushi? Why can't I come? Besides, it was you who was fired by Mu It's not me Bai Qian is now known to the whole country The successor of the Mu Group It's Meilin. What is Mr. Mu? Young Master Chu has to stand aside How dare you fight back? White shallow You are so brave Looks like I have to teach you a lesson. Who are you going to teach? Shallow Are you okay? Manager Sun, what's going on? I no in Manager Sun, what's wrong with you? I am not As long as you are not injured Ai Yeah White shallow Why are you pushing me so hard? Because of me M Moser Group The position of heir? How can this be possible? Bai Qian and Ju Di are not dead yet White rain picks that hair Not yet He took the money but didn't do anything. He took the money but didn't do anything. I don't have money with her. oops Mr. Fu Mr. Fu Look at Sister Meilin. My hands are bleeding. White this bitch Erke must Punish her well You are teaching me how to do things Listen to my explanation What are you explaining to me? What's our relationship? Mr. Fu Meiling's hand It's really badly injured. Yu Shen, I don't have an official position. Just your power Don't bother Bai Qian. Yu Shen figured it out I just knew it After I become the heir You can get him back right away. Mr. Fu and Miss Gao are a perfect match That is Meiling is Mr. Fu's Arranged marriage Shut up You're not going to the conference room. Meeting? Let's go. Why You Shen Rong is a little dizzy Can you carry me down? good Bai Qian called me As long as you shout I immediately threw her away and hugged you Wait a moment The woman finally got jealous Wait a moment White shallow You have something to tell me Excuse me I mean the elevator. Wait a minute. Because I also need to go to the meeting room White shallow You called me just So that I can help you press the elevator button Bai Qian, you go M Moser Conference Room White shallow You don't want to Conference hall with few people Apologize to Meilin Don't Why not take advantage of the fact that everyone is here now? Directly to Meilin Kneel down and apologize That's sincerity. Shut up A Shen I'm not angry with Bai Qian Bai Qian, you don't need Kneel down and apologize to me Some things I think everyone Get together and talk A bit better I have called Everyone went to the meeting room What do you want to do? Meiling Everyone really Arrived at the Mu Mo Conference Hall how You don't dare to go I am now Mu Moser in black and white Heir What am I afraid of? Hey, the elevator is here. Bai Qian, wait for me Meilin, this woman Still want to seduce Mr. Fu You mustn't let her go. certainly Since she is like this I like the taste of death Then I'll let her try it. The taste of eternal damnation Prepare what I want Bai Qian, what I prepared It will definitely ruin your reputation Yes Ms. Bai M Moser Group There is shocking news What is it? Hey, is that Mr. Fu? And the one next to him It was announced yesterday Ms. Gao, the president of Mu Group? I've heard of her before. I'm a couple with Mr. Fu. Maybe immediately The good news is about to be announced You guessed it right. Vice President to us Meiling Sister's Deep Love Ten years like a day Please write well. So that those The cheeky mistress Give up now What a shameless mistress Who is Is there any gossip? Want to expose something? Everyone, please be quiet. The following is an announcement Big news you want to know Everyone, please look at your phone Bai Yurou You're ruined. Now just listen to me Let Bai Qian be in the Mu Group Sign the transfer contract I'll give you 10 million If she refuses Just kill her I'll give you fifty million. Bai Yurou You have Ruined reputation Now just listen to me Let Bai Qian be in the Mu Group Sign the transfer contract I'll give you 10 million If she refuses You killed her I'll give you five I actually saw Gao Meilin Video evidence of murder for hire turn out to be M Moser Group The heir is Bai Qian Miss Gao is so vicious He actually wants to be torn into pieces There is this video She spent her life in prison Gao Meilin You are a fake. Heir Look, I'll kill you for Mr. Bai. This video is fake White shallow Don't be complacent I'll expose it now Your true face I have a video Can make you fall into eternal damnation Huo family, look! You Shen You should also take a look White light mosquito rice She is shameless She lied to you before. Come on, think about it again. How to do this question Your sisters Still doing homework next door I'll go take a look You two, just write here. Wait for me OK Do it well Oh my god What kind of fairy is this? A hard day's work Can also help children with homework Bringing Children Emotionally stable and gentle Miss Bai is simply My goddess Not this video You were all deceived by her. Bai Qian, she's a bitch Old aunt Is your computer broken? It turns out it's you, little bastard Watch me strangle you Who are you going to strangle? Gao Meilin You are still obsessed with it Fake You Shen They wronged me. Shallow and sweet What do you want me to do with her? You decide. IN baby Mom asks you If you meet a bad guy What should we do? I've called Police uncle! They have already obtained evidence Been here for a long time Gao Meilin You are suspected of framing Bai Qian Please come with us Cooperate with police investigation Yaoyao Please save me Yaoyao, believe me I am innocent I Ms. Bai Seen in the video You're the one taking care of the kids. What about the child's biological father? Ms. Bai Widow parenting is too hard Children's Is the biological father dead? I am the father of the child My father is the president of Fu Group I have 4 brothers and sisters. We are united and friendly Family Okay, what nonsense are you talking about? That's right for us. A loving family mom White Call the police on me I managed to escape What to do now? What a waste Even running errands is a big deal. It's also tiring Your sister Yurou was arrested Looks like I have to do it. mom You still have a way Xu I still have That bitch got the upper hand Walk It's an honor I actually I was able to take a family photo of Mr. Fu. yes Mr. Fu and Ms. Bai They are a perfect match. The children also inherited Their beauty Simply perfect Shit, a perfect match snort White shallow You are Mr. Fu's wife Noodles Quietly moved in Chu Tianshao's South City Manor Do you still have any shame? Ms. Bai This lady said Is it true? Listen to this person Miss Bai is having an affair during marriage This news is so explosive He won't be murdered. Liu Aihui, what do you want to do? My own business I'll solve it myself Mother come on Liu Aihui I did live in Chu Yanxiu's Nancheng Manor But I live by the law Look, everybody. Even Bai Qian herself All admitted Cheating in marriage Why don't you expose her? I would like to ask you Who stipulated My sister can't Living under my brother's name In the house What Ha ha ha ha Still my brother My sister is calling me snort You really don't find it disgusting? Miss Bai Is this the kind of person? Eating from the bowl and looking at the pot Really shameless Chu Yanxiu is my biological brother What's wrong with me calling him brother? Brother Look Lian Fu Youshen He doesn't even know about this. How dare you talk nonsense there? Since you said Mr. Chu is your biological brother Then you show me the evidence. Qianqian did not cheat on her husband I am the evidence Bro, you are here IN Qianqian did not cheat on her husband I am the evidence Bro, you are here Oh, girl. Auntie is wrong Auntie, before I was cheated by a bad guy Chu Yanxiu found me Told me the truth Auntie knows that I have wronged you. &gt;SSOSOSV SSSSS, 9 Can you forgive your aunt? Old Lady If you're because of me Inheriting the words of the Mu Group sorry Then I can't forgive you Because I can't Let my mother's blood Fall to you Fu's assets How could I possibly The idea of attacking the Mu Group Am I that kind of person? I love you I love you Not because You gave birth to my child Not because You have the M Moser Group Did you hear that? Bai Qian and I are siblings But when I was young I'm lost Just recognized it not long ago Please Report truthfully Brother-in-law You've been hiding it from me for so long. This is shallow Don't let me tell you You blame your wife. This is impossible Fu Youshen Bai Qian and the children They are my most important relatives. If you later Dare to treat them badly Don't look at you, you are my second brother Don't blame me for being rude to you. Okay, I'll guarantee it with my life. It will make them happy later. My life I will only love her If you change your mind Let me die a miserable death That's too much. White shallow You bitch Why I have nothing left I have no money No more daughter And you You still have a man who loves you Love your brother and your grandpa good I'll let you die Mother Doctor! Call a doctor How's Auntie? My mother, how is she? The patient had a deep wound We have tried our best... Don't worry. Hear me out The patient's wound was deep She had a tumor before. Surgery required so We will do our best Help the patient perform surgery Rest assured, the operation was successful The old lady has Out of danger real Old man It's no longer a problem. Thank you, doctor. Aunt Mom, you scared me to death fine fine Shallow Those who hurt you Gao Meilin Liu Aihui I have already sent They're in jail. I will never come out to hurt people again. Aunt If I were What's wrong? Will you Treat me like this too. Will you Don't let me see the kids anymore. I can swear to God I'm not because of you Inherited by Mu I'm flattering you But saw You put the child Evidence of nurturing I know you've suffered a lot. I was really old and confused in the past I want to break you up or I asked Youshen to take the Fu family I'll give you half of my property. As a dowry Please forgive me, okay? Mom, please forgive grandma. Aunt I can't have Half of Fu's property Shallow Can't you forgive me? No, auntie I forgive you. But I can't Fu's property I am now It's busy enough. You should leave it to Fu Fu Youshen, go get busy. What did you call me? I call you Fu Youshen Fu Youshen, what are you doing? Wear this from my mom Heirloom bracelet You are mine Calling husband What are mom and dad doing? Kissing and hugging You little devils are not allowed to watch this We didn't watch Don't worry, they didn't see it. Daughter-in-law What should you call me? mom Why Why