Yeah. It'll be fun. I promise. Oh my gosh. Yeah, right there. Nice. We're going to do some quickfire answers. Are you a dog or cat person? I love all animals. I want every kind of animal on the planet. Not snakes and spiders. -Not that, but all the others. What things give you energy? Being around Yeah, friends, family, This is what keeps me going. What three things are Make your bed in the morning, drink coffee of course, and climbing. -That's basically it. -It's a simple life. All other things are side things. Interested in your choice to in relation to your own mind Yeah, so, at the beginning of my path, I was kind of really not open to it. I just didn't want to have a psychologist because it was still ten years ago or more, So, nobody really talked someone had a psychologist, Of course, when I started competing, I soon also had the way that I was thinking. So, I was afraid that having So, the psychologist would change or they would want to change Yeah, so basically my whole life So, that's why I didn't want Also right now, now I'm more open to it. Now I would of course try, but I have Roman around me who is also not just So, I have a feeling I don't need help me with that. But I'm still open to it. If I ever get a feeling that or that I would need about certain problems then I would. And I would try, Mental health was not It was more whenever-- Because athletes, Basically, athletes, So, athletes should be tough, athletes shouldn't have athletes shouldn't be insecure, So, that's how athletes were And then when top athletes about mental health, Then more people were talking everybody was more comfortable People talk about struggles all the time, people are supportive And I like that it's changing because, Athletes are, first, humans Because of course when you compete, you're tough, But we are humans. We have our own insecurities, I like that mental health Do you notice that of being vulnerable or Or are there some days that successful and confident I wish periods would come &quot;Hi, you are not pregnant. Yeah, it's hormones. It's hormone fluctuations. I mean, men have it too, The thing about women is that we basically and of course with that also And honestly I was having which is a funny thing 70% of the comps that I won And at the same time, because I was always, I felt, And I needed quite some time how my body works, what do I need in and I was learning for quite I was always thinking, Will there be a comp? Because I felt so uncomfortable because I feel like kind of off balance. Especially on the wall, You feel tired. I feel like my mind Or especially I feel bloated. Like, my whole body is-- You can see it on my arms. So, I hated this feeling, Not just in the past, but still now. And I feel like I will just fly. I feel like I'm just going up But everybody just needs to find Again, so did Roman. He usually knows every single time But I think it's important for a coach he adjusts, adapts trainings to the time of the month I'm in. We are just talking a lot about it because having to have this period. But it's not like you can say, It's not like you can say that. And I wouldn't say the competition world. But not a lot of people think about it. Athletes are on their period, They're in pain, they feel uncomfortable, And let's not talk Sometimes you feel like out of place. You feel like that your mind is clouded. But, yeah, kind of like, of course, But then comes a time where and I have so much energy for But then comes the time But now I learn how and what helps me the most Because before I was like, What do I do?&quot; I was already preparing that I will have, and I kind of But then every single month, Then one month I said, &quot;Okay. And then I didn't feel any pain. So, just changing the perspective And also, if I just talk about there's so much under-fueling going on, So, women lose their periods, and I am glad and so happy that So, there was not a time in which I'm so proud of. And I'm happy that I have it, honestly. Maybe I'm pissed or maybe frustrated But then I'm like, &quot;I'm a woman. This is a natural cycle going on I train like I normally do. I don't really adapt because, first of all, let's say you But the comps will be So, you can easily have and on a comp, you cannot say, &quot;I won't compete,&quot; Because in a comp, it's a comp. So, I had to get used to it, while I'm cycling and compete So, but it took a lot of time. Especially mentally, perceiving periods not as or something that will be And then my life-changing moment was when someone told me that they are physically the strongest. So, then this changed a lot. Say you're at World Cup, Do you change how you dress? Not really. I usually wear But it's like maybe in a competition, you anyway have to be focused But while you're on period, &quot;Oh, am I leaking through? Am I-- Did I change tampons, at the right time? Am I-- Do I spot on the pants? Will belayer see if I have So, it's like you have to think about one I feel more tired, but I warm up slowly and maybe get slower Or maybe I feel off balance or maybe I will do some or theraband exercise Usually, it's all about intuition And with periods, this doesn't change. I just do what I feel about doing. How does that kind of societal expectation or beautiful impact you and have you ever on social media specifically or in person Yeah, honestly there are beauty standards. There absolutely is. I had a moment, this type of situation. When I was a kid I already got some As climbers, you don't have Like non-climbers do. I felt kind of insecure. Or for some time. Or they said, &quot;Oh, Kind of in a way, But I, very quickly after that, &quot;Well, this body helps me to climb. You can't, but these muscles So, I was like, &quot;This is who I am, and that's it. I have rough hands, I have muscles. I'm sorry, and that's who I am.&quot; So, I never really bothered with that. But I've been in a situation where I felt about myself. Like, maybe not looking feminine enough. I said to myself, and I keep saying Obviously, the sport is power to weight, but what's prompted you to speak Yeah, of course climbing is a sport And of course, the lighter you are, the easier you will fight gravity. And this maybe worked 20 years ago when there or maybe for rock climbing, If you don't have something on you, And you can just break. When I heard eight or that if they lost some weight. Eight or nine years old. Like, if they lost some as skinny as the other girl is And this breaks my heart. This is eight-year-old girls They are not even developed yet. And yet they are still talking They are ruining their health, their bodies, for small part You can have problems after that. Health problems, you cannot get pregnant, liver problems, all the kinds of And I think I will always believe that you can do every professional sport And that's why I spoke out about it. Also, this was a taboo topic in climbing. Everybody was talking about But nobody said it out loud. Everybody was saying, But no one said it out loud. So, I feel like I was We have to define what being fit means does not equal being strong. It just means that you're light. So, yeah, we need to start talking what means being healthy. We have to start talking We have to start talking not your enemy. Maybe nothing will change in if someone is in this eating disorder, Bear in mind that you years of effort, But I feel in the generations to come, So, can you share with us a little bit So, I'm on a seafood diet. I see food and I eat it. That's a terrible joke. Can we cut that? Okay.