- Why do we choose Mexico to live? - Why didn't we go to live near my family in Brazil? - Why didn't we go to live in Argentina, which is my country? - Why not Spain? Why not? This the other? -But the big question was, why Mexico? - The last video we had had like 8000 comments, - a lot of people left very nice messages, - but some people left quite harsh, quite difficult comments. - And very negative about the decision we made, - so we decided to make this video a little bit to tell you why really. - We decided to choose Mexico to live - and give you our most honest answer to all those questions that you have asked us. - And I can also many for curious, not because Mexico. - Of course, there are many people who just want to know how to get rid of their curiosity. Yes, - so as soon as we are organizing the backpack here and packing, - we are going to tell you. Let's start talking - about the comments that were most repeated on the channel - and that was what, like the most frequent thing that happened in the YouTube comments, - Instagram, the security issue, - look. Your comments here I put together some so that you can see the majority speaks - that it is an unsafe country that it is a terrible choice to have chosen that country to go to live - that Lisanna either 1000 things could happen to her or to me too and that it is too dangerous - and that we should never go to live there. - And one thing that is going to be very curious, to hear for all of you - now is that when we and Lisanna made a list thinking. -Let's see why we would choose this country to go and experience the first thing that came? - But our list was security, believe it or not. - But here we have to explain why we mentioned it in the last video I think - and people were like that. How can it be safe? - Of course, then everything one reads and appears in the news. - But it was like that, more or less 2 months ago, - we went to Mexico again to visit, places we had not been. Gone - we stayed for a week. In front of Reforma Avenue, - then we passed through Belize and on the way back we ended up in Polanco. - An Airbnb and also about a week or so there. One day Mateo tells me, - Imagine if we lived in Mexico and I looked at him and said. - Mexico is for sure - Of course, but that arose because there was already a good energy, - both from Lisana and mine there. - We felt good. - Yes, then I had not put that option in my head, - but since Mateo mentioned it, I began to see everyday life with different eyes. - What would it be like to be there? We went out through the streets of Polanco, - Museo Somaya, that entire region, Avenida Reforma, we rode our bikes - on the bike paths there are and we felt very comfortable - we walked at different times of the night, yes. - And we also saw things that surprised us. - For example, I never forget the image of a girl who seemed to be either American - or from these parts because of the person's physiognomy and what she was like. - She may also be Mexican and she looked like she was about 15-16 years old or so and she was with her dog. - Walking alone. - Walking alone throughout the neighborhood, it was already late in the afternoon, - I say, look, this girl here is walking the dog alone, - there is no one with her, there is no insecurity. - There is no armored car carrying her, no, and that caught the attention of the two of us, yes, - and there we began to see that the security issue, - of course, that region of Mexico City is a bubble, without a doubt, - But we are already starting to say, well, but not all of El Pais is like that. - And also there we were asking various local people who live there - or asking people who work in that area what it is like and they say yes, it's really here. - Sure, obviously like everywhere you always have to keep an eye out, - but it's much calmer there. - Exactly. - And, it is not common for them to happen. - Things and then there what was, let's say the most important thing, of course, - for Lisanna mainly that she came from such a different security culture - to what the concept of security is. - We were able to do a check and say that here we can both live happily. - Because in another Latin American country, without naming El Pais in the neighborhood. - Well, considered safe in a 5-star hotel, 2 in the morning there was shouting vulgar things and 2 shots in the air that I jumped out of bed and then I said, how can it be ? - Then that's when I got really scared. - Not that it can't happen in Mexico, - you never know that can happen anywhere in Latin America, - but hey, that place also left us calm about something they told us. - Many Mexicans believe that in Mexico City there are 80,000 security cameras. - More and more. - And there are more and more. The city is monitored and there is also a button where if something happens, you press there and you connect directly with the police. - That is, it is not that things are like this without any type of control, - on the contrary, there is a lot of control, they are in areas in certain areas. - So it's like all the news represents all of El Pais and the good things. - It is not counted. - So that was a factor that convinced us and we said well, - the security issue is resolved. - The next step was the social part, something that surprised us is the easy way, - if that's how you can say that we had to already meet people, - both in the neighborhood, where we stayed as people who live. - Close too. - A neighborhood called La Condesa, but with the speed that we were able to integrate into that world there. - I have already lived in 5 countries and something I felt when I arrived in a new country, - including history, is that it is not easy to integrate into the local society, - it can take you many years, it can take you a while. - They open up to you and let you in normally when you go to a new country. - There are already groups of locals who already have their friends, - they already have their traditions, they already have their customs - and it seemed to me that entering is very difficult. - Then we said damn look at the speed in a week, - the people we already know this never happened to us in history, for example, - and we were very pleased with that because we want to make friends. - We want to have a network of contacts, we want to have more social life - and well, that added a lot when it came to saying it was like another check - very good, let's now talk about a point that is fundamental for any couple, - family, individual who needs to pay his bills, - work to prosper in life, which is work work. - My first job. - That was something that we and Lisana also evaluated. - Obviously we are content creators, we have a YouTube channel. - Travel - Travel and also lifestyle. - About our partner, our relationship, etc. Don't look at people from all over the world - Spanish speakers and obviously for us to be able to move to live - in a country that would be much better if Spanish is spoken in that place. - Exactly. - Because the contact with the audience, with the followers, - with the fans, with the community that we created over time. - It's going to be much better, it's going to have a much better connection, - everything we do where we are, with the people who follow us independently, - if they are from that country. Or from another, it doesn't matter just because of the language, - It already ends up connecting people more - and when we thought about Mexico we said with Lisanna Mexico has some factors - that would be very good for us and would even give us a better quality of life - and they were also connected with what we were looking for. . And what is that? - I wanted to say it, my love. - And if not I won't let her talk poor - The Mexico City International Airport has many flights. - It is not all over the world, but much more than what we are used to, - as you can see on the screen there is a lot of Europe - it connects all of Latin America or the United States, North America and even Asia. - So, being there and close to the United States, which has something for the whole world, - we can reach almost the whole world with one stopover. - Apart from that, within Mexico itself there are 32 states. - Within those 32 states there are hundreds of tourist destinations - where we can make content, - in addition to that there are very cheap flights, for example, to Puerto Escondido - which we went very recently and it is a place that we were amazed by - and we are going to return because. - Me, especially a scene where I was surfing - and a giant turtle swam under me. - This memory no longer came out of my brain and I want to go back. - And the water at 30deg, more or less because I love warm water, - so we can access all of that on a flight, for example, which cost us 30 USD. - Then we think about how many tourist destinations we have nearby at a low cost of the plane ticket - and that allows us to return quickly and also spend more time at home, - which is something we really like and is also. - Our goal is to create more of that social life - and that was something that we loved very much and also visiting Latin countries that are nearby. - Exactly being there well and not counting lastly that Mexico has 130000000 inhabitants, - it is the most populated Spanish-speaking country. - So imagine for us the audience potential that is there for a content creator. - Apart from all that, there are a lot of youtubers, - a lot of instagramers from tiktokers, people who make a living from creating content. - We can interact, make friends, create content together. - It's like if you speak Portuguese, you're going to go to Brazil, to Sao Paulo I imagine - Exactly Sao Paulo Rio de Janeiro, a big city, - so the work thing was we also did another check, the third one was done. - Now arriving at the Airport, we wanted to comment on the following point. - What would be the lifestyle. - We in Mexico City noticed that there are some very good bike paths - you know, we like to ride electric bicycles, - there are bicycle rentals, there is a beautiful Chapultepec forest, a park. - There are many kilometers to walk, also many restaurants and cafes - that offer healthy food, lots of avocado. Beans, international food. - Also. There is a lot of variety of food. - But every day, when we had to go out to eat, we ate beans, avocado, chicken and we liked it a lot. - And also many options for vegetable milk, it's like very up to date - in that whole area that we want to go to, no - Supermarkets, a lot of variety of products, you have everything you need. - Gym in the neighborhood, you have the Bank there, you have the immigration agency. - That is, everything can be done on foot around where you want to live. - So it seems to me that for our lifestyle - and what we like meets all those expectations - that we always look for and there we kind of find it - everything in one place just for that. - But I think many now ask where we are going to live? - No, of course, where, where? - What place are they talking so much about? - Not us what. - What I liked the most was without a doubt Mexico City, - because it seems to me that it is centralized. - Here's everything. - Everything comes from there, you can have everything you are looking for - and need for both your life and your work. - So we chose that city, the area we chose to live within the city is called Polanco. - And its surroundings. - And its surroundings, which could be there. - They still don't know all the names of the areas, so we say like this. - Polanco, the countess. Reform Avenue. - Reform. - And are the Lomas there too? Yes, close to the new one. - Museum they opened. Soumaya. - Soumaya we liked all that there very much and we would like to live there. - The truth is that we don't see ourselves today living anywhere else other than there. - And precisely because of the security that these areas offer - because there Lisanna feels very calm. - She can go out alone and well, I think it's good that she can feel good. - Yes, leaving the country we come from, which is Tonia, which is a small and safe country. -But we also know that living there comes with a cost, the prices of everything are there. - The rents. - Peaceful rents are very high. - From then on they start talking about 1000 USD per month. - That's something very basic above. - So, when we decided on this decision, we already knew. - That we are going to have to pay much more than, for example, in Estonia - than in many European countries, but. - We compare the cost of living and in that region of Mexico City - it is higher than here in Talin, which is the capital of Estonia. - So we know that we are going to have to work more, - we are going to have more. Produce more, not be economically more efficient. - Efficient then? - But it is the plan, we also want to do more things. - Of course, we are still young, we have time, energy and desire. - What a beautiful, cool car, a Lexus. - What a machine. - Don't drop the glasses, Mrs. Pomba, please, Mrs. Pomba. - Thanks for. If you don't want to give something away Ah. - Yes, Lexus wants to give us one of those cars so that we can make a video of it, - we accept it. Here is another Peugeot, what a beauty, all electric. - A machine, look how beautiful the Talin airport is. - It looks like a house of a family that welcomed you so that you can wait for your next flight - and not get cold very well. Those were, let's say, - the main points that made me choose Mexico City. - Now we are going to talk about questions and also a little hate - that many people have thrown at me who tell me why I didn't go to live in my country - Argentina or why I didn't go to live with my family in Brazil or why I didn't go to live in Spain, - for example, which is also a Spanish-speaking country, - since they say, everyone in the world wants to leave Mexico and you want to go there? - Since everyone wants to go live in Europe or the United States - and you leave like all these comments that you read here, for example, - that we even leave you on personal Instagram. - Are people going to tell me, I don't know that I'm a traitor, why do I do that? - What, and they tell me even more horrible things? - Well, first speaking of Brazil, we think so, - it is good, Brazil is very good, I lived there for 17 years, - but El Pais for our work, which is the YouTube that is in Spanish there. - It wasn't going to be the best. - The people there don't talk. The Portuguese consumes content in Portuguese in most cases, right? - So, for our YouTube channel it wouldn't be a good thing, - the truth is we would have a good life, but we didn't have a good job - and life has to be a balance, otherwise it doesn't work in Argentina. - Yes, I love my country, this year I already went twice to visit my grandmother, my brother, - my uncles, everything and now that I am going to live in Mexico I will be able to go to my country more times. - I believe that Mexico today offers us more opportunities for life growth - for our YouTube channel, so we feel that Mexico - is a better option for us and the decisions we make are made together. - As a couple, it's not like I'm forcing Lisanna to go live there. - I also read comments, even one said that I take Mateo. - That I am forcing Mateo who cannot go to Argentina - Every conspiracy theory that we laugh a lot, - but it is not like that. We make the decision together. - We look for what best serves both of us, yes. - And we both liked it. - We said it's good, we're going to live here, get everything together. - It brings together all the concepts that one was looking for and Spain the truth. - Do you remember the video? When we went to southern Spain it was in a ambulatory, - we had decided in our minds to go to Spain. - It was good until we got to know those new places in Mexico. - There it changed. - Everything there changed, yes and well, and in short - we are already finishing the video when we are going to move. - Many people have to know, we plan to go in mid-January. - Find a place to live. - Since now at the end of the year there are quite a few commitments already made, - then it will be a 2025 project, - I hope to also resolve this year about my wedding dress that I bought, - but with the settings and everything there are a bit of problems. - It emerged that I'm not going to go into much detail because it stresses me out, - but I hope to resolve this and start the new year with everything. - So that's the plan. - Let's see if everything goes well. - And there we would move and well, and we would start everything step by step, - all the step by step that there is from then on, which is going to take a long time, that, - of course. Lastly, we also wanted to tell you, if Lisanna wants, about her parents, what they think - And then yours. - If I went there, I can say about my parents, my dad, - the first thing he said was looking for a 2-bedroom apartment. - Obviously, my parents were sad that I'm not going that far. - The flights are also long to come and go to visit like this. It's not a long trip, but. - They understood me and they will surely come to visit - and I am going to do my best to always come to visit Estonia, no - So hey people, that was what we had to tell you. - I hope I could have answered well. - The questions, see you in a next video from the Talin airport - we send you all a big kiss until next time.