A jet engine is the most important part of a commercial $58 billion business. A typical overhaul it could be 4 or 5 million at the $10 million, maybe as much as 15. A commercial jet engine is a complex, expensive machine The process of overhauling one means disassembling it blades, which can cost up to $30,000 apiece. An engine could have, you know, 40 or 50 of these 60 Engines typically stay in service for about 30 years every 5 to 8 years while passengers are flying in Manufacturing and supply chain problems have persisted Boeing and Airbus delays on new aircraft have forced with demand. They're keeping these older aircraft in service longer on aircraft when they get into their 20s. So what it means is that the overall market, or what engines. Demand for old engines, coupled with an engine recall, Before the supply chain issues, a typical narrowbody That time has gone up, in some cases to over 200 days. It's not sufficient spare parts nor labor to do this in You cannot predict today how many days this engine While hundreds of airlines use outside companies, maintenance in-house. It really helps us give control over our maintenance we have enough capacity to provide engines and lift, CNBC traveled to Tulsa, Oklahoma to get an inside look explores the outlook for the market. Most of today's airliners are powered by turbofans. To understand what goes into maintaining one, let's Air is sucked through the large fan at the front. 80% bypasses the engine's core and flows out the back. The remaining air goes into the core. It is compressed through a series of blades, then 3000degF. The hot air pushes through the turbine, making power to the compressor and the fan. All the air forced out of the back pushes the plane The engine has parts which are life limited, so the 25,000, 30,000 cycles. And then, by law and by the certification rules, you guarantee a safe, continued operation of the engine. One flight cycle is starting the engine, taking off, If it's a single aisle, it's probably going to be in But for a twin aisle aircraft, you fly these really many starts and stops on the engine. You might be looking at 6 or 7 years, maybe eight When it comes to jet engine manufacturing, the market GE Aerospace, Pratt and Whitney, and Rolls-Royce. GE dominates the space when combined with its joint Engines generally have a much longer lifespan than a aircraft, mainly as engines can be replaced, they can They can then be held as spares. It's a razor-razor blade business. It's difficult in that you have to invest several brand new jet engine just to get to break even point these days. Engine manufacturers also provide maintenance to More than 70% of GE's commercial engine revenue comes July. It's investing $1 billion on upgrades for its 2024. GE reported over $15 billion in MRO revenue engines. Supply chain issues are also affecting new It's been very, very difficult to get parts. That's one issue. Number two is there have been configuration issues engines, which are running at these higher in them and have had quality problems. Despite these issues and delays getting into repair much better than Boeing and Airbus so far this year. Shops are really, really full now the market is back and competence. In the U.S. Alone, there are over 3,000 aircraft repair since 2022. We see growth rates in the engine service business of So currently this year, we will see in the market Overflowing repair shops have left airlines like It said it's on track to increase engine overhauls by American Airlines has over 950 planes in its fleet, facility for maintenance and engine overhauls. When you factor in two engines per airplane, along with support as we manage through the normal cycle of So it's probably north of 2100, 2200 total engines. The facility is one of the biggest of its kind in the It's been in operation since 1946. At that time, engine manufacturers weren't big into kept core and certain fleet types to be able to do Many planes in its fleet use a variant of the CFM56, engines. What we found is we had almost 80, 85% part commonality of those engine variants. So we have a lot of reuse capability. And when you bring those two fleets together, it's A repair shop that may be fixing the same type of parts. And when you see the inner workings of these So an overhaul, I think we've counted them up one time. It's like 1,200 parts. It's all complicated. It's all very complicated. There's nothing easy about it. It's a very custom fit, very measured. It's a process. On the day we visited, we saw the many stages of We'll break the major flange, and then it'll be From there, they're broken down into piece parts. Thousands of parts are cleaned and inspected. The testing also sounds like a hospital visit using fluorescent penetrant. Or fluorescent penetrant inspection. We spray these parts with a lime green fluorescent into the surface of the parts and any subsurface They use a black light for the fluorescence to be a help signify where some of those defects are located. Parts are slowly moved around the facility, come with very high price tags. You can pay north of 10, 20, $30,000 a blade. And some of these, you know, some of these blades, you 60 blades in it. So these are very expensive parts. Some workers focus on smaller, more intricate sections, thousand pound pieces together. In an engine. Let's say that has a list price of $10 million. It might cost you 5 or $6 million, possibly more, for overhaul. The majority of the costs of the engine overhaul is in in-house isn't necessarily cheaper. A lot of the value is is not having to go out and lease You know, as I've told CFM, while we don't contract shops. We just have one customer and that's American And so we buy parts from them. So it's a it's a good offload of work that they don't But I can get these engines through the shop in less 120 to 150 days in some cases north of 200 days. Given some of the parts constraints that are out there This engine has been in the shop for roughly 53 days The engine will spend several days here getting run back into service. Whether it's an airline manufacturer or an MRO shop expected to persist for years to come. What you are seeing is that the engine overhaul shops facility until they know they have all the parts The parts you're talking about is engine blades. These are difficult to produce and it's hard to just manufacturers and the forgers are trying to increase But the key on this one here is the part has to be If there are any even slight imperfections or defects, parts go through. Experts say that even as newer engines enter the fleet, But some of it has to do with the reality that to get save you a lot of money, you have to do things with money on maintenance in the hottest part of a jet blade is several hundred degrees above the melting and the fact that these engines are running hotter and predecessors, means that they will likely need to be often, and maintenance costs are likely to be higher generation engines. It's affecting basically everybody who has new aircraft unfortunately, does not yet deliver the maturity level the shop more often. Airbus and Boeing especially are behind on aircraft is expected for years to come.