This video concerns the events in Ukraine, to justify the invasion of Ukraine. As a historian that also happens to be from on how you choose to define it), I have, in by friends, family, and strangers to explain justify his war. Many other historians have lately been in it would be prudent to make a quick video To help convey some basic facts about Ukrainian facts are being altered by Putin to fit his In 2021 Putin wrote an essay titled On the which, to summarize, basically gave multiple Ukranians are Russians and Ukraine belongs This goes hand in hand with his previous statements speeches in 2022. The idea that Ukranians and Russians are basically it had existed in nationalistic Russian circles, To explain all of this, however, one has to Slavic nations trace their national, and often The Kievan Rus'. The Kievan Rus' was an early medieval eastern late 9th century, centered around the city I have already addressed the formation and East Slavic History, so I won't talk about But, the important factor to comment on here talk of the Kievan Rus' as Russian, or Ukrainian, The Kievan Rus', just like many other early composed of many different people groups. There were Vikings from today's Sweden called tribes, various Eurasian Turkic, Iranian, community of traders, and even the various population of the Kievan Rus', saw themselves There did not exist some kind of an universal tribes were just as likely to fight each other Kievan Rus' would eventually fall in the fracturing and power struggles and external Therefore, speaking of the Kievan Rus' as a kingdom of many, often bickering Eastern of different peoples, a kingdom which slowly would be inappropriate if not outright wrong. In the 14th century and a bit in the 15th including Kyiv, was conquered by Poland and For the next roughly 400 years these lands art, etc. under Polish and Lithuanian control. During the same time the Mongols, or as they Horde, remained in control roughly east of Here the Mongols exerted power over the local the various local towns and villages. One of these towns was a wooden trading post Moscow. Moscow over time became the center of an increasingly of its capital city Muscovy. Muscovy eventually grew more powerful than of conflicts became independent in 1480. From there Muscovy grew more and more powerful With this expansion Muscovy began to style Rus' people but of the Rus' people. To explain, since the time of the Kievan Rus' all Eastern Slavs. It wasn't supposed to denote any single for all Eastern Slavic people. In essence the words Eastern Slavs today are back then. So Muscovy's increasing styling of itself they began to create an idea that all Eastern This is evident, for example, when in the in his grandfather's footsteps, assumed the No longer was Muscovi just Muscovi, a Duchy of Russia, literally meaning the Empire of Eastern Slavs. This way, the country that over time just wars with their western neighbors in the name Even if all the Rus', or all Eastern Slavs, the same people just like, for example, all see themselves as all the same people. By Muscovy styling itself as a polity of all back to the kingdom of the Kievan Rus' and Muscovite Russia went to great lengths to Russian continuity, even though, as we discussed, context than it being a product of its time wholly inaccurate. So, when Putin talks of Ukraine as a place Rus', and, therefore, should be part of up Muscovite Russian concept that regards Rus' which has no actual basis in history. Early Modern Russia slowly, in multiple wars 19th century, conquered most, but not all, from the Polish Lithuanian Commonwealth. Russia was hoping to assimilate all these pan-Russian nation, despite many of these to the Muscovite Russians, different culture, by the Poles, Lithuanians, and overall more These people were still Eastern Slavs, and not as Muscovite Rus' or, in other words, Therefore when Putin in his speech on the long time, the inhabitants of the historical called themselves Russians and Orthodox. This was the case until the 17th century, with the Russian state." he was wrong. These people identified as the Rus', as ever since the word Rus' got appropriated in today's Ukraine had to start using other Like, for example, Ukranians. The name of Ukraine existed far before this widely adopted due to the appropriation of by the Russians. Despite all these factors, Russia tried very all the Eastern Slavs into what they called peoples, to them all the Eastern Slavs, all they should all be talking and acting as the In some areas this Russification proved to high nobility assimilated into the Russian However, in other areas, this Russification the late 18th and 19th century, Ukrainian and Ukrainian language was officially codified The continued survival of this Ukrainian national problematic to the Russian government. The Russian minister of interior P.A. Valuev said in 1876 that "permitting the people in the Ukrainian dialect would signify from the rest of Russia ... To permit the (That is what the Russians called Ukranians) especially in view of the unifying movement Germanic tribes." In heed of this warning the Tsar forbade all, and teaching in Ukrainian. The Russian empire also conducted a series violent suppression of Ukrainian people. Many Ukrainian thinkers, therefore, fled to Monarchy. Here Ukrainian culture and language wasn't by the Austrians as a beneficial counterbalance Therefore, much of Ukrainian literature of and this literature was often smuggled into to be under harsh Russification pressure well The Russian Empire lost the First World and into Civil war. Putin, again in his 21st of February speech completely created by Russia, more precisely, This process began almost immediately after associates did it in a way that was extremely of its own historical territories. Nobody asked the millions of people living Now, taking aside the fact that, as we discussed, before 1917, some key events did happen during Putin described them. When Russia lost the first world war to the what is today Ukraine fell under the control However, these countries never really had both soon surrendered to the allies. Therefore, there was a large powervacume in to vie for control. The most successful of these factions was by the Ukrainian Directorate. The Ukrainian People's Republic would, in People's Republic which was established in Austria-Hungary. This idea of a finally unified Ukrainian state, the Ukrainians who sought independence had who didn't want independence, or Poles, Socialist Republic which was created and supported This entire complicated situation ended in Republic was conquered by the Poles, and the the help from the Russian Bolsheviks, won People's Republic, and other Ukrainian factions. As you can see Ukraine wasn't created by form an independent state of Ukraine in the on account of the Bolsheviks. "Nobody asked the millions of people living of them thought was that they wanted an independent The mere fact that Lenin along with the Bolsheviks Republic shows just how different Ukrainians The Russian Bolsheviks simply couldn't have The Bolsheviks had to establish and support in order to gain control of it. After winning the Ukrainian civil war with Socialist Republic joined the USSR. The way the new Russian Soviet state was going the Bolsheviks. In the end a federative solution was chosen. In accordance with this solution a "People's Narkomnats for short, was created; whose job within the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, It is this body that Putin refers to when to the newly, often arbitrarily formed administrative that had nothing to do with them?" But this is inaccurate, as Geoffrey Hosking "They [the Narkomnats] drew on censuses, and linguistic surveys to try to determine and degree of the national development of was assuming sovereignty." They were definitely not creating "arbitrarily With that said, as Lenin died and Stalin took For one, a more direct centralization of power Socialist Republic" or just Russia for short, power in the USSR, came to, for all intents all its other constituents. In the context of centralizing power, in Ukraine targeted the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic ethnic patronage systems and break down local On top of that his economic reforms caused the holodomor which disproportionately affected Khazaks, Tatars, etc. There were also many killings, imprisonments, refused to comply with the Soviet state. The Western Ukranians in Poland were faring but not by a lot. Ukranians were often looked down upon by the the West Ukrainian People's Republic over theirs. Due to this negative Ukrainian sentiment in Ukrainian social development and resettled majority. All this resulted in that, when WW2 started Ukranians welcomed the Germans as their liberators. Putin referred to this in his declaration will undoubtedly try to bring war to Crimea innocent people just as members of the punitive accomplices did during the Great Patriotic This statement, again, is not completely true. Yes, Ukrainians did initially welcome the Ukranians who collaborated and helped the For one, every occupied country in Europe The French, the Slovaks, the Czechs, the Poles the Russians all had Nazi collaborators. However, these collaborators do not represent The initial Ukrainian sentiment towards the away as it became clear that the Nazis saw inferior human beings, as Untermenschen. Reichskommissar Erich Koch, who was in charge is no such thing as a free Ukraine. Our aim is to ensure that Ukrainians work To this aim "Abled-bodied men and women, deported to work as slaves in German factories Anyone who resisted was publicly hanged as Several million citizens of the occupied regions the Germans, either as soldiers or as civilians, was violent death." Many Ukrainians became sick of being occupied and formed partisan groups which at their These partisan groups were often loosely unified all occupiers like Poles, Soviets, and Germans factions against the other ones. Flip flopping between the factions was also The goal of all these partisan groups was of an independent state of Ukraine. To achieve this goal they fought with sometimes partisan groups conducting ethnic cleansing. Some of these partisan groups continued to into the 1950s. So when Putin stated in his declaration of which are part of today's Ukraine were not the USSR was created or after World War II." they were not asked because they didn't In both instances, as we saw, there was active countries', rule in Ukraine. After the second world war ended Ukraine was including imprisonments, killings, deportations, of the Ukrainian partisans. When it comes to Crimea, this area was historically speaking peoples. However, by the end of WW2 they were dubiously either killed or deported to mostly Khazakstan. The depopulated Crimea was then resettled So when Putin talks of Crimea as being Russian, Tatar population was killed or deported. Crimea was originally under Russian control Krushchev. There are multiple reasons as to why Krushchev most important factor was that it did not Crimea was still in the USSR just under a As William Taubman states, Krushchev never such a decision as he most likely couldn't not be part of some kind of a Russian state. With all that said, after the death of Stalin, to Ukraine. This is not to say that Russification efforts For example, like giving preferential treatment speakers over Ukrainian speakers. Active Russification, like the aforementioned a thing of the past. Although, with that said, any kind of formation this time was still harshly cracked down upon. Ukraine during this time also saw large-scale This industrialization was often followed mostly to cities like Kyiv, Luhanks, Kharkiv, This, along with the centuries long Russification a sizable native Russian speaking population. Native Russian speaking, however, did not There are plenty of native Russian speakers the majority of Ukranians can speak Russian. By one 2010 poll, 76% of Ukrainian citizens of citizens identifying as Russian. When it came to the breakup of the USSR the pressure from its citizens, declared independence That same year, in December, the new country The voter turnout was 84.2%, and out of those There wasn't a single county, or Oblast, Crimea, the oblast with the largest percentage of independence with a voter turnout of 60%. On top of that Ukraine along with USA, UK in 1994. This treaty guaranteed to the new country "reaffirm their commitment to Ukraine ... to the existing borders of Ukraine." and that they also "reaffirm their obligation against the territorial integrity or political their weapons will ever be used against Ukraine". All of this in exchange for Ukraine giving after the breakup of the USSR. With that said, this newfound independence Russia behind. Ukraine still remained a close ally of Russia However, a slow change started to happen in A large majority of Ukrainian people increasingly and especially Russian leaders, wanted Ukraine BelaRus did. These divisions of opinion then lead to all now. Lastly, I will talk about languages in Ukraine. The language laws that have been adopted by by increasing Ukranian nationalistic sentiment. The threat of Russia in the 2014 crisis made on the Russian and Ukrainian languages, after speak Russian, and Russian was still sometimes However, the increasing threat of Russia to favor, and, therefore, its language status Ukrainian. With three controversial language bills passing Despite Putin's claims "to protect people by the Kiev regime" specially as he refers This is not the case. The language laws were harsh, and that's but they by no means are casuing a genocide other minority language in Ukraine. Russian, along with 17 other languages, is and as such it can still be taught in schools, etc. it just can't no longer do that in place Meaning news-sites in Russian will also have Russian will have to also teach Ukrainian, are only given the right to study 'the language than in the language of their minority". With that said, other things like theater minority language, and minority language book In the end, yes, the language laws are harsh, and in neighboring countries, but they are The people who are actually oppressed the Russians but Rusyns living in Transcarpathia This is because despite Rusyn being recognized countries, in Ukraine, it is only seen as of a minority language status. So, unlike Russian, it does not get the privileges own classes, printing its own newspapers, As Elaine Rusinko states "Today in Ukraine, from the government, unlike the publications are not even allowed to establish Saturday their own language" and culture. What is interesting here is that Putin in and Ukrainians did mention Rusyns as distinct Rusyn independent movements. But all of this is purely a political play at the moment is not to "secede from Ukraine, framework." In the end Ukraine is not a saint, ironically, historical statements used by Putin as propaganda historically inaccurate. Putin's statement of "I think that the one single people" pedals centuries old despite such a thing never existing in history. To anyone who has been effected or knows people and are trying to escape to neighboring countries, to give as many links and phone numbers to that are trying to help all the Ukrainian Hopefully this video was helpful in dispelling history of the Ukrainian and Russian relations. Of course, this video could not have been all the major points. As always there's more information and corrections You can also download my scripts for free it. This video is not monetized because I didn't However, this video, along with all the other with the support of my kind Patreons. Special thanks to this month's deity tear As always, my name is M. Laser and stick around