We set the zero hour for all technology timeline at December 16th, 1947. The First Transistor. The Game Changer. The foundation stone for all the The discovery of the transistor changed radars, and telephones, it overthrew the vacuum In this video, we look at the first ## Beginnings AT&amp;T and Bell Labs have long wanted Vacuum tubes like the triode and TV telecommunications, which valued their The tube underpinned AT&amp;T's massive but also strained it. In the a single transcontinental phone These tubes mostly served as amplifiers to had weakened while traveling through expensive, and vulnerable to burning out. A So as early as the 1930s AT&amp;T wanted something involved in this pursuit was William Shockley. from Yale and General Electric to join Bell Pre-war research followed the lines of the AC power to DC in order to provide What does that mean? A rectifier straightens the AC power current - letting it flow freely in Early on, a Bell Labs scientist worked so similarly to how the Might it be possible to get them to So Bell hired the experienced William try to modify the rectifier's behavior Those early experiments did not pan out. in physics. Furthermore, their work involved needed to work with something far purer. ## War When the war broke out, Shockley research and also oversaw the He also later wrote an interesting invading Japan, which may or may not have In the early years of the War, the United it came to the solid state physics behind scale of the resources that America poured made the difference. There were 30 to 40 The most important and impactful work involved a team of scientists over in Purdue University from the US Government to produce These are called a &quot;cat's it involves pressing a very thin metal Note on wording. There is a difference solid whose conductivity we can control &quot;semiconductors&quot;. The latter is more As a potential component for radars, especially in microwave wavelengths. But one often burnt out because of impurities in set out to produce extremely pure This work was assigned to a single grad student, who worked with the EaglePicher Company to Before the war, it was hard to get silicon American companies like the DuPont For their part, Bell Labs set aside their in radar. Yet even that work stimulated immense from silicon diodes for modulating radio signals ## Post-War The war ended. And in the spring of 1945, Mervin Kelly was promoted to Recognizing that Bell Labs' new physics could translate into potentially Kelly created several new research groups. pulling together electrical engineers, William Shockley - fresh from made the co-head of one of these aforementioned Walter Brattain In September 1945, Shockley and Kelly Shockley and his team that silicon candidates for what they are hunting because they felt it would be easier to work In January 1946, Shockley makes a prediction. If field to a thin layer of silicon or germanium, Based on this prediction, we could again like the vacuum tube triode. Let us imagine such a device. In two of the three electrons passing through the semiconducting Now let us send a lower-current If Shockley's predictions are right, then can modulate the semiconductor material's current passing through the other two So now what we have done is copy the current - amplifying it without using a vacuum Alternatively, we can raise the strength of the it can shut off the current flow entirely. flood through again. Like as if it were a Shockley called this the &quot;field ## An Experiment But the field effect experiments - carried Bardeen and Brattain worked well together. a great experimentalist. When the far less than what was predicted Bardeen suggested that the electrical field because it was being blocked at the surface cannot enter through the third terminal, Come up with an idea. Then come up the two started probing the surface of the observed behavior defied After many experiments which I shall omit for if you were to put the two probes very closely &gt; I accomplished it by getting my technical had a smart, narrow, flat edge and I cemented gold on the triangle, very firmly, and dried, I took a razor and very carefully cut the You then push the triangle very carefully up on December 16th, 1947 and they ran it &gt; I found that, if I wiggled it just right so that I could make one contact an and that I had an amplifier with the That was it. With this deceptively simple setup, amplifier - strengthening a small signal many Brattain said that he had done the most Bardeen, a more quiet type of fellow, only mumbled to his wife as she &gt; &quot;We discovered something important today&quot;. ## Keeping a Secret The team put the device into a circuit. to AT&amp;T leadership - who were able to listen AT&amp;T then kept the discovery a patented the design. They also ran it after the AT&amp;T demonstration. The brass pondering another &quot;underground&quot; venture Fortunately they did not. The general applications for the device were simply too great. The New York Times' first mention of the show called &quot;Our Miss Brooks&quot; - a fascinating The Miss Brooks radio show was a hit. It and was lauded for portraying the everyday later adapted for television, where it Oh wait, we are still talking Anyway, the New York Times article &quot;applications in radio where a vacuum tube ## The Point Contact Transistor The announcement sparked the study of solid-state physics around the world. There is no doubt that the point later be called - is historically important. And the team that discovered it was Furthermore, most people at the time had doing. How was this amplification happening? Brattain and Shockley won their Nobel, the actual I will not try to explain it. Instead, I refer by Glenn Zorpette called &quot;How the First As a commercial product, the point Bell Labs' sister company Western Electric of having it replace all their vacuum tubes. And But major challenges emerged. The device's structures - making it extremely fragile and temperatures. Thus its performance was not ## The Junction Luckily, the Point Contact transistor Bill Shockley had not been involved in After eight years working on the topic, frustration at this as well as a competitive Shockley also realized the weak prospects as a commercial device had not been fleshed out. This only While Bardeen and Brattain were demonstrating Shockley was furiously making On January 23rd, he unifies several around with observations from the transistor Roughly speaking the junction transistor is semiconducting materials modified The two types of materials are called &quot;p-type&quot; and "n-type" semiconducting materials. has an abundance of &quot;electron holes&quot; - So the electron holes are the &quot;majority&quot; The &quot;n-type&quot; semiconducting material is doped majority charge carrier is the electron. There are two types of this three-material work the same way. The areas are and the collector. The base is always The places where the N-type and &quot;junctions&quot; - which give the The critical thing that Shockley the majority charge carrier - either an a salmon across those two junctions In doing so, they flow through the entirety its surface - rather than just This concept is known as &quot;minority key concept to a device that is far more By manipulating the current going into the base, we can control the flow of a much base. We can use it to amplify a smaller At first, Shockley kept the idea secret. first point contact transistor was physicist John Shive shared the results of an That result showed that the electron of the germanium. Shockley saw Shive's injection concept - and paving Later in 1950, two Bell Labs chemists the Czochralski process to grow a long The Czochralski method involves systematically in order to create a larger crystal. It is Using the Czochralski Method, Teal and Sparks with P and N-type impurities to Bell Labs was able to bring out the first You can see why the junction transistor was product. Unlike the point contact transistor, touching the surface of material, the junction ## Shockley Triumphant Literally by himself, Shockley had crafted an Bardeen had been working with but critically missed the concepts He had dismissed the idea because a high resistance barrier that electrons or A bit later, Shockley publishes a book titled which cements his place as the unquestioned Labs began promoting him alongside Bardeen Shockley - paranoid and infamously difficult from further work on the junction transistor. state physics group and Bardeen leaves Bell Bardeen felt slightly better about things after managed to have civil conversations A year after that win, Bardeen drops theory and Cooper Pairs, which wins And to his credit, Bill Shockley it was Bardeen and Brattain not himself ## Transistor Explosion In 1949, the US Government had To settle the case, AT&amp;T's Consent Decree not than phone stuff, but also meant that they had to Thus various domestic and foreign companies September 1951, Bell Labs held its first They also circulated a big 800 page book plus a few samples to each licensee. They The vacuum tube companies - RCA, General Electric, to their tube business and aggressively coming up with new innovations Sometime in 1951 or 1952, General &quot;alloy junction transistor&quot;. This is pellets of Indium and others with Manufacturing the alloy junction transistor was the grown junction transistor. We do germanium crystal as we are growing it In 1953, the first transistorized products one of those in a previous video - the shrank the hearing aid and revolutionized The news quickly spread around the world, France quickly had its competing &quot;transistron&quot;, And Japan's Electrotechnical Laboratory Occupation to produce their first And then its first junction transistor in 1953. Japan's Sony Corporation went on radio. Researcher Leo Esaki won for the work he did there on electron Amidst this explosion of solid state of course the transistor would quickly ## Computers transistors to go into computers. And Typical computers in the 1950s Imagine if they could replace them all with use far less energy, generate far But that dream was delayed as up the production of reliable transistors. much. The first hearing aid - which had just In November 1953, a team over at the computer with 92 first generation point seen as the first transistorized Bell Labs and other companies, poured resources into making commercialization of the improved alloy notable one was Philco's &quot;surface-barrier In May 1954, the United States Air Force received &quot;TRAnsistor DIgital Computer&quot; or TRADIC. It had digital navigation computers can replace analog So in less than ten years, the transistor thing in a lab to flying tens of thousands of now considered second-generation devices ## Conclusion he wanted to leave Bell Labs He tells Arnold Beckman of Beckman Instruments, who immediately recognizes the potential to set up his Semiconductor Lab within Beckman. On September 1955, he officially Bell Labs collected 37% of all the patents issued vacuum tube companies aggressively entered the So Bill Shockley heads to sunny California. Malcolm Gladwell podcast, it was not Anyway. You know the rest. Maybe. Stay tuned.