- Morning, Chevy. - Good morning chef. (upbeat music) - So these are wild Japanese which is gonna be on our sashimi fish for the next several days. (upbeat music) So if you look at the tail, perfect on all sides, it hasn't been beaten up or worn down. And that's because this But farm-raised tai, these to like bloody little nubs because they're raised in a swimming in this net and their tail and their fins get worn down from the friction of We'll scale all these fish And then these fish These fish are $40 a pound. So each one of these fish Yeah. This is almost for the next couple days. It's crazy. So this same fish was farm raised, or even if it was wild caught, but coming from New Zealand So basically four times wild from Japan. Chevy Ramirez, whose been Four years now, five years? - Four years. Yeah, four years. - We're gonna scale them called sukibiki, which is actually you This technique is better serve the fish for sashimi, 'cause it does less And then we're gonna gut them, clean them out really, really well. And then we'll go upstairs in dry-ager. There's process to it is when you go to a sushi bar. Like you go to a sushi bar They got a bunch of raw fish. But there's so much that happened - Yeah. So we're upstairs and we're gonna take the fish over the weekend and then switch it out with these tai snapper And then two, three days from now we're gonna use these fish. So we just keep on rotating. So yeah, this is one of the tai snapper that we're gonna use today. Right here. You can see how much the on this skin is made there. (upbeat violin music) - So now Chevy's gonna filet some of the tai that we just brought from upstairs for tonight's sashimi. You can't really make nice if you don't filet it well. When you take the filet off the bone, if you in any way break up this or this one, then when you it will be very obvious that the fish was sort of treated in a when it was fileted. Next step he'll remove those bones. Then you cut the fish the belly loin and the back loin. And then the fish will be salted And then at that point Every step is essential So the first substantial bite, the first bite you really need like utensils for is These are fat bastards from the hood canal up It's actually a shigoku oyster, which a lot of people are probably familiar with that, has spent extra time on the bed about an extra year on the So to wash these guys just and I'm gonna run a little it'll knock off some of the barnacles and any sand that they might - [Tristan] Yeah. So we the liquor inside the shell for the sauce later. - [Chef] Tristan's been The entire time we've been open. We started cooking together and I was a much younger man, but yeah, it's been a long strange trip but I'm glad that he's been - [Tristan] We let them steam And then we let him rest for one minute. - [Chef] They're not like fully cooked. They're just like, oh shit 'Cause you can still like But it does enough to like a nice mouth feel and we when we put 'em in the ice so that we're keeping Opening up that caviar and just looking at it and It's different every time. It's a magical thing. Those kind of traditions to me they're important. - Kind of deceiving how much You know, we have to steam Then we cut each oyster, put They weigh out all the caviar And then a sauce is made from the liquid. - We make a sauce with champagne and cultured butter. We finish that sauce with the extra juice that Eight grams of caviar per and it goes right on top of the That oyster changes from time to time. We need to have the oyster and to be really full in the shell, 'cause otherwise it's Yeah. So these are our scallops from my friend Nancy Wynn up in Maine. Nancy's scallops are so fresh that when you do that, they move. Yeah. Her stuff is just the best. Like they're just no better scallop that I've ever had really. During the season, which this is almost always on the menu. It's just one of those with wild seafood you can and you gotta be flexible. And so we always give just a quick rinse, just to make sure that is rinsed away. So this side, the scallop If you were to put it but if you put it on the plate like that, the scallop slopes up sort of in a much more eye pleasing way. And so when we arrange we always arrange 'em in the same way which is to say that the flat side, 'cause all scallops will is on the left. Every time you add a new scallop you find which side is and put it right up against Making sure that scallops may sound goofy, but it 'cause it's silly to also and buy the very best product that you can and not really care for it. (upbeat violin music) So from here we can prepare the truffles and then we can start We're in the Truffle Twice a week they come, I'm looking for aroma, Obviously you look for color. So they always have a And I like to take a little piece off so I can look inside the truffle and make sure that it's as So if the truffle's black and you have great aroma, and it's gonna be what your looking for when it when it comes to black truffles. So yeah, I'm taking 'em all. Thank you. Yeah. Getting in and outta I swear, he keeps buying 'Cause every year it gets of this stupid thing but they don't like to leave it out here on which is probably a good idea. Thank you guys. Take care. (gentle music) So Stephanie's gonna take us through the next step of our scallop dish. - So now I'm just gonna make some planks and I always find the best way - From the very first time I I knew that one day I'd wind Like I've been mentored as part of the repertoire. Yes they are ingredients in a fine dining restaurant. But at the same time, they're All these ingredients, I feel like history and past they're part of a larger culture. I don't know. I couldn't imagine not working with them. - I find that if I kinda on the top it helps to... Put the truffle in without snapping it. And I'm gonna start with a As you may be able to And it is a little time consuming as I'm sure you can imagine. But when it's all said and done, you essentially have a in every single bite, so... - [Producer] Do you think the - Yeah (laughing). It's a worthy cause to To be stuffed with truff. - And I really like cutting the truffle like this 'cause so often like, with black truffle you can cook them, white truffle, you don't you can actually, when you actually have a nice big You're actually getting the sensation of chewing it and all into the scallop but the truffle that is really a part of the which I think is really nice. So first they'll get barred with truffle then they'll be sauteed just We glaze them with brown just to make 'em really And then it's served with and a scallop sort of butter that's made with the scallop broth from and cultured butter. And that's that. Uni egg has been around here at Providence for maybe 15 years. These are uni for the harvested from uni in Santa Barbara. We go through, I don't know, but the idea is we buy as much as we can. Sea urchin is a tricky thing. It's a very important part of our menu. It's very like wind and weather dependent. Up in Santa Barbara, the wind could be hauling at 30 knots and if it is then the and if the fishermen can't get out, then there's no sea urchin to be had for the next couple days. So when really good uni is available, we buy a lot of it and we hold onto it. A lot of this uni is Step one, empty out the eggs. You know, we top them. Then we empty out the eggs and separate the yolk from the white. And then the yolk goes When service happens, we So these are borage blossoms We can just pick what we need, it's as fresh as can be. With this stuff obviously unlike the fish, it's gotta be like picked that you you're gonna need it as possible. We'll warm up the sea with some fines herbs into the egg. Definitely it's sea urchin. You know, it's delicious. It's also very comforting. Sea urchin a nice rich like What else do you need? Well, one thing I'll say about that dish, there's plenty of people like, &quot;Oh, I don't like sea urchin, So it's about two o'clock right now. And Chevy's, this is like that he has to do for the day. If I were to ask you, what's What is which one is it? - This fish-- - Salmon? - King salmon? Chevy's a master at this point. So you better live up to that Chevy. No (beep) up now. - No. - Flavor bears no resemblance that's lived its entire on its normal diet. There's no way to replicate with a fish that's raised in a pen. All of the fish that we want for the menu, actually we got today for the menu. We can always find wild salmon. We can't always find... the scallops don't always come in and weather dictates so much of the fish. We kind of have to just play it by ear on a day to day basis what is gonna go where. And if you commit to using you kinda have to be flexible in that way. There's all sorts of to what might wind up on So basically we cut 'em about yay-big. Like so, and then Gina, the chef de parties on the fish station will put the sun choke scales on the fish. We will always use wild caught fish. We just have certain principles that we don't compromise period. So I think the thing that in this restaurant is and presenting it in a (upbeat techno music) If the message that we can and by feeling a menu of wild fish is the idea that you can. It is possible. It's 3.15 and yeah, they just Better late than never for sure. But normally we hope that, these big guys will walk through the door, two o'clock at the latest. The vendor that we get these from, they do lots and lots of deliveries on Tuesdays and Fridays specifically. So we go through like, one and What we do is we take a look through 'em like figure out which is the which you can kind of tell by the way they hold their antenna. Like this guy's his antenna So he's the one that (lively techno music) - Here's the finished from all the crab with the And then they roll it up and that's gonna be gently just pan-seared in clarified butter. So there's gonna be a little and they serve it just of the king crab and a tongue of uni. - It's almost 5.15. That's the time that we start our pre-service We got Nancy's scallops So that's on the menu. And then for Maine's Liberty farm duck and Wagyu. Other than that, I don't throughout the course of service. All right, everybody have a good service. Thank you. - So these are the wild the Sashimi every night. It's like a little bit of I usually put on some and I slice the fish and buzzing around in the kitchen. And usually by the time I go out there, Tristan has already tasted that the cooks have made - We have to look behind us. You see the wild Michael lobbying his head in the window over there, or the Grateful Dead - [Producer] It's Grateful Dead. - Grateful dead? Yeah. I had a 50/50 chance. So yeah, they basically like make me one of the completed amuse. And then on all these puree's individually so bite the whole thing together I'm like, oh, it's salty. But then I can taste all then I'll know what they can adjust. So yeah, this is the oyster mayo. It's little spicy. They try and season it to And then obviously I try all the sausage, the next level of checking and he might think it So it really does hit quite a few levels. Usually like since we we'll try and get the amuses And I make sure that they're all set up. Good? You should start You already poked all your crackers? - [Kitchen team] Yes, chef. (suspenseful music) - [Chef] Service comes down to timing, execution and presentation. (upbeat violin music) - So king crab to sea urchin crushed peas, a puree peas, there's a piece of king crab on the dish. The first several tables have been through the majority of their amuses. The very first table is Ordering two menus, adding one uni egg, it's gonna be one Wagyu, one salmon. (indistinct) It's gonna be two salmon, (violin music) I've definitely learned And I think, we've at running the restaurant just physically running the restaurant. We've gotten better at You know, everything. It's just always an evolution. 'Cause if it's not, like if you ever just sit there and go, &quot;Oh shit, we really did it.&quot; That's like the day you I think as a chef, you have is in front of you. 'Cause if you don't, if you I don't know why you get out of bed. I really don't. (violin music)