You're not the Empress You're a fake! Who are you? Speak! Your name is Water Moon? You ought to know that your name also means... Illusion Spectral Blades from Huandao Clan. Samantabhadra Night Ghost from Qianshou Clan My Lord, please... It's a trick! These are indeed modest tricks of the Jianghu Your deceptions are an insult! What is your name? Smoke Volant from Xianqi Clan Your Majesty... These are mere Jianghu tricks! What a charlatan Don't trust him Huan Tian... These men are all you have to show me? Your Majesty... This gentleman doesn't trust us I'm bold enough to bet against him If his sword can strike Your Majesty's shadow, I will accept your punishment How dare you? You speak of Her Majesty's shadow? Your guilt is clear! Not guilty! Your Majesty... Show me your blade! Immediately! Forgive me, Your Majesty Hidden demon, show yourself! Water Moon from Fuyin Clan. Who are you? What are you doing there? Get the ropes around her! Watch her feet! Dee! You can't go anywhere Watch out! Up there! Don't let him get away! Move away from there! Master I'm all right What about you two? All right What was all that for? It seems to me... Someone set all this up They just wanted us out of the Bureau But look what's happened now They're targeting us, too Come, come Hand me the Dragon-Taming Mace I will take credit for finding it In my eyes, you're worthless You speak more nonsense than Huan Tian! You got here... just in time to die The Dragon-Taming Mace Forged in iron from stardust Harder than the Golden Stone What's happening, Huan Tian? Something's wrong No, this isn't part of the plan Someone's interfering Someone? Who? The dragon! It's coming to life! Where did it come from? Explain to the Empress! I don't know what's happening I can't explain it to her! Then we should get out of here! How can we leave now? Protect their Majesties! It's a good omen! The golden dragon reborn! It's an omen for the dynasty! Huan Tian, what is it doing? It's an illusion... Just an illusion! Protect their Majesties! Madam... There's danger, Your Majesty Go away! The Dragon Ball! Huan Tian is gone Huo Geng! Protect their Majesties and get them away I'll get him back Yes! Your Majesty... Seal the exits! No one may leave! Yes, Sir Stop him! We need more men! Quick! You are all Golden Guards Stop! Stop! So, the Mace's sound counter-balances her sorcery! Show me who you really are Dee Renjie... You saw through my ruse, But I saw through your mind You defended the Bureau, Which means the Emperor is here Fire! Bring water! The dynasty must fall! Get away! The dynasty must fall! The dynasty must fall!! What is that? Stay alert up there! Everyone on full alert! Be prepared Be prepared Release the net! Master... Chant the sutra (Daluo Longjie Sutra) I haven't chanted yet! Who has the sutra with him? Thank you! Spread out! Now you're trapped! Do your worst! Dee! Master Dee! Sha Tuo! Master Dee! From the left! (Daluo Longjie Sutra) All right? Yuchi! Take this! The Tang Dynasty must fall! Ridiculous! Are you trying to control my mind? This weapon was made to counter mind-control! Master! Master! It's a weapon from hell Once it's locked in position, it can't be moved! And now, your soul is trapped forever Any last words? A dying wish? Speak up! Life is infinite, and precious Why would we allow hatred to contaminate it? You will regret killing me Fine words, but they won't keep you from dying! Inner demons urge us to kill... Expel them from our hearts, and the weapon will fall open Inner demons urge us to kill... Expel them from our hearts, and the weapon will fall open Inner demons urge us to kill... Expel them from our hearts, and the weapon will fall open The hatred is endless with no room for regret Expel the demon, the urge to kill Thunder-controlled Sword Secret &quot;Mystical Power from the Ninth Heaven, Converted into Powerful Thunder&quot; &quot;Magnificent Heaven Power, Piloted by the Sword&quot; &quot;Mystical Power from the Ninth Heaven, Converted into Powerful Thunder&quot; &quot;Magnificent Heaven Power, Piloted by the Sword&quot; Xiaofan Master you are leaving here quickly Hurry up to transfer Kungfu to Xiaofan; &quot;otherwise, once the demon enters his body,&quot; he will be possessed by the demon. &quot;Zhang Xiaofan is the disciple of Qingyun School,&quot; &quot;who has practiced Tianyin Kungfu,&quot; and has refined the weapon of Demon Cult with his blood. &quot;Unexpectedly, my palm power&quot; helped him integrate the three Kungfus inside his body. Daoxuan Qingyun School Sooner or later will he destroy it. Lingzun You're here. I know you won't ignore me. Let's eat. Lingzun I feel annoyed myself. But I still want to ask you. &quot;This time,&quot; I must confess to my elder sister. But I don't dare. Could you please teach me? Kiss her. That's not good. Could I change the way? I You are bored. you are merely a god beast. &quot;A little patience, ok?&quot; Is it necessary to be angry with a mortal? Your body seems like a bell. Inhale qi and swallow it. Run the qi along with the eight extra channels. Throw off your obsessiveness. Where does the qi come from? Where do the channels come from? Hold your breath and regulate the qi flowing in the channels. The Dantian becomes warm. The qi rises up to the middle of the forehead. Forget your breath. Your mind settles as still water. Gather your kidney-yang. But you must remember that &quot;such bead is extremely harmful,&quot; which can disorder your mind. &quot;Someday, you&quot; &quot;find the cliff with deep gully,&quot; and then throw it down. Child I want to select you as my successor. Are you willing to call me master? The thing happened today shall not be told the second person. You also can't speak of my name and alias. This initial approach I have taught you can't be practiced in front of others. Can you do it well? Master Master The bead you gave me has not been thrown off for many years. &quot;I have been worn the bead,&quot; but I feel uneasy increasingly. &quot;Today,&quot; it is time to throw it off. &quot;I know you also want it,&quot; but I can't give it to you. What the hell is the treasure that can give out the soaring evil spirit? &quot;In that year, when the most valuable treasure of Demon Cult&quot; &quot;the blood-sucking bead reappeared,&quot; its astronomical phenomena were the same as that of today. Does the blood-sucking bead really reappear? Demon King Cult has been searching for the whereabouts of the blood-sucking bead. &quot;With the advent of such astronomical phenomena,&quot; Demon King Cult will certainly appear. The disciples shall be quickly dispatched to find out the truth. Boss The blood-sucking bead finally reappeared. &quot;Unexpectedly, the Soul-chasing Stick from the outer world is also lured out.&quot; The two treasures integrated into an integral whole belong to the Demon King Cult. My bead? &quot;This time, I saved you.&quot; &quot;Next time, you don't rob me.&quot; You seem like a monkey. Return it to me. My younger brother is still controlled by her. I have my own arrangements. Are you all right - um Elder sister Xiaofan Who is that masker? Why did she kill you? I do not know. &quot;I fell into the water,&quot; and just climbed out. The weather changed. And then that masker appeared. &quot;Moreover, a monkey also appeared,&quot; and bit me. You see. Are you feeling better? Feel better. Whinny Draw the sword My hands are out of control. Go &quot;Demon King, welcome!&quot; The Taoist has been waiting you for a long time. The disciples of the School have frequently been killed. They should be killed by you. &quot;If you enter into my Extinct Nether Array,&quot; &quot;within a short time,&quot; your Kungfu will be melted. Sword Array We firstly kill this witch. I beg you to let her go. Go away Thunder-controlled Sword Secret &quot;Mystical Power from the Ninth Heaven, Converted into Powerful Thunder&quot; &quot;Magnificent Heaven Power, Piloted by the Sword&quot; &quot;Mystical Power from the Ninth Heaven, Converted into Powerful Thunder&quot; &quot;Magnificent Heaven Power, Piloted by the Sword&quot; Xiaofan Master you are leaving here quickly Hurry up to transfer Kungfu to Xiaofan; &quot;otherwise, once the demon enters his body,&quot; he will be possessed by the demon. &quot;Zhang Xiaofan is the disciple of Qingyun School,&quot; &quot;who has practiced Tianyin Kungfu,&quot; and has refined the weapon of Demon Cult with his blood. &quot;Unexpectedly, my palm power&quot; helped him integrate the three Kungfus inside his body. Daoxuan Qingyun School Sooner or later will he destroy it. &quot;In that year,&quot; have you killed all the villagers of Caomiao Village? &quot;In that year,&quot; &quot;Caomiao Village Massacre,&quot; I have been tracking it. I have been suspecting that the murderer is one of us. &quot;Anyway,&quot; &quot;he has practiced Tianyin Kungfu,&quot; and possessed the weapon of Demon Cult. &quot;If we let him go,&quot; the world will be chaotic. &quot;For the sake of the common people,&quot; kill him. Do you also want to kill me? Xiaofan We should go home. &quot;Later, I am your elder sister.&quot; Don't be afraid. Count on me. Master Xueqi Zhang Xiaofan must be killed. Kill him. The thing happened today shall be born by myself. I beg you Let the Seven go. Sooner or later will he become the king of demons. Xueqi Kill him. You go away. Don't be my disciple in your next life. Kill him. Why Go Where can we go? I had promised you I will bring you to a place where no one can find. &quot;In fact, you don't look nice when you're angry.&quot; Why don't you smile? There's bewitching energy again. It's so happening. We're closed. Go back. There's God in both heaven and earth. When celestial beings arrive, mortal beings should make way. You're full of bewitching energy. How dare you claim You're only a mortal being. How dare you misbehave in front of me? Kill without mercy. Stay right there. Seal. Have a good sleep. Xiaoqian. Xiaoqian. Xiaoqian, why are you here? Get me the sword. Sword? Okay. Sword. Xiaoqian. Why is there another demon? She's my friend. Should I introduce my two friends No need. Throw the sword to me. Catch. It was very close. Hey! It's dangerous here. Let's go. The big one can't take it anymore. It's your turn, tiny one. Granny, please. Please don't marry me Please. Granny. Why did you do that? Because I like you. I can't leave you alone. I have to save... You traitor. How dare you betray me? From now on, I'll not be controlled by you. Xiaoqian. Unification of sword and heart. Unity of all directions. Rotter scholar. I told you not to run around. It's too late. Let's go. Hey. What about Yan Chixia? Rotter demon hunter. You have ruined my business. Stop blathering. Old Demon. I, Yan Chixia, am going to tear you apart. Burial with the sea of blood. The world is infinite. Power from the universe. Dance of fellow demons. Sword of infinity. Old Demon. I've destroyed your thousand-year-old practice. You can no longer do harm. Rotter demon hunter. I won't let you get away with this. Talk to the God of Death. When I reincarnate in a hundred years, I'll pursue you for lives. What do we do now? We can't go on like this. Black Mountain Demon to absorb millions of resentments. We can't damage his foundation this way. What do we do then? If we want to destroy his primordial spirit, we have to enter his body. Hold on. I'll get in. Why are you still here? We couldn't go out that way. Are you done? My sword can't damage his primordial spirit. Figure something out. Rotter scholar. Use the Incantation of Exorcism. Incantation of Exorcism. How to use it? Toss it. Okay. Ning Caichen. I can't hold on any longer. Xiaoqian. No. Your soul will be destroyed forever. Hurry. No. No, Xiaoqian. Xiaoqian. Xiaoqian. The world is infinite. Power from the universe.