Tomakomai City, Hokkaido. This time we will be introducing a fishing port restaurant that is fully booked from 5am in the morning. Martoma restaurant. Preparations for opening will begin at 3am. First, let's prepare the miso soup. Plenty of shrimp is the key to the soup stock. Preparing lunch boxes at the same time. This is delicious grilled fish. I made it about 4 more times the first time. If you run out, make it again. JKT) There are about 4 of these. that's right. It's completed. The salad will be completed at the same time. The lunch box looks delicious too. Next preparation. Meat and potatoes are being made. There is a wide variety of menu items. Marutoma-don with the famous surf clam. The meat and potatoes are ready. JKT) Will the lunch boxes be sold out soon? . The lunch box is Hokki rice bento. This is a lunch box for 330 yen, and it sold out quickly. JKT) This is 330 yen. The fish alone costs over 300 yen, so everything else is free. JKT) It's a really great lunch box. When you come to Marutoma Shokudo, be sure to check out our bento boxes! . It's already morning outside. Mornings at the fishing port feel great. Seafood preparation has also begun. It's a very fine piece. JKT) The amount of rice is also amazing. It cooks 4.5 kg at a time. JKT) 4.5 kg at a time. ? How many times do you cook in total? . I wonder how many times I'll cook it. I've already cooked it 3 times. The meat and potatoes are ready. As you can see, the taste is soaked in. It looks very delicious. It also goes in your lunch box. The grilled fish is also ready. The final stage of preparation is frying. Preparing for fried horse mackerel. The preparation of Hokkaido curry has also started. I will also fry fried horse mackerel. Opens at 5am. The restaurant is fully booked as soon as it opens. Customers were already lining up right after the store opened. I immediately received an order for surf clam curry. This is sashimi. Hokki curry looks delicious. Marutomadon is a popular menu item. Makes 6 servings at once. Plenty of fresh seafood. Freshly harvested surf clams from Tomakomai. Salmon. Sea urchin. how much. Finally, add the shrimp and it's complete. Marutomadon is completed. Marutomadon can also be taken out. The volume of takeout remains the same. It's plenty. Hokki salt ramen. The sound and aroma whet your appetite. The lunch box is also ready. Preparing for the next one soon. There was already a line 30 minutes after the store opened. Hokki curry is popular. Scene of hokki preparation. JKT) Is this the same amount every day? . I agree. It's more common on Saturdays and other busy times. JKT) Are you doing it alone? . It can be done by one or two people. JKT) You can eat what you caught that day. The mechanism of Hokki is simple. Each shell has two scallops attached to it. So just remove the scallop and it will come off right away. JKT) That's right! . JKT) It comes off easily. It's attached here and here. There's still more to come. Separate the string part and the surf clam. When you press this part of the surf clam, the inedible part will come out, so remove it. It will be served as sashimi. Boil the string part in hot water. After removing the sand, it goes into ramen and hokki fried rice. We will do the preliminary processing thoroughly. The preparation of surf clam curry has also begun. Hokki rice bowl. Freshly caught surf clams look delicious. The preparation of curry is also progressing during business hours. Preparation of shrimp. Fried surf clam. A hearty sweet shrimp bowl. There are 100 of them. Salmon, sea urchin, salmon roe, this is amazing. The curry also tastes good. There is a line outside even on weekdays. JKT) Have you always wanted to become a chef? . I used to play baseball. I was aiming to become a professional baseball player, but when I graduated from high school, my parents wanted me to continue my career. I said I absolutely hated it. I was told to do it because I would pay them any amount. You said you wouldn't do it even if you gave it to me. I really wanted to become a professional baseball player. I entered a university in Hakodate. It wasn't until I moved away that I realized the value of my parents. There is also a cooking school attached to the university. I had the opportunity to attend both during my fourth year of university. While attending university, I also went to culinary school. Get your chef's license. It feels like I came back after training in Hakodate. JKT) Has surf clam curry been on the menu since its founding? . Hokki curry is a dish that was created when I was in high school. JKT) What is the new menu after the replacement? . When I came back, there were only about 5 types of surf clams on the menu. Increase it every year. There are now more than 25 types. JKT) Is there anything you would like to do in the future? . They come to me and ask me to open a branch somewhere. After all, I want to protect the first store that my parents built. I don't have any intention of going anywhere. I would like to continue to be a store that makes everyone happy . JKT) Enliven Tomakomai. That's number one. Because there is nothing. After all, I would like to promote the surf clam, which is said to be a treasure of Tomakomai ! . JKT) What is Miura-san's favorite menu item? . After all, surf clam curry is the most popular. JKT) It came out really well. Surf curry or Marutoma bowl. The second store is also nearby. The main focus here is takeout and product sales. The manager, Mr. Miura, made us a surf clam curry. The sense of speed is definitely different. I received it from the second store. The aroma from the moment you open it will whet your appetite. The surf clams are also big and plump. And this guarana is perfect! . I would definitely like the special guarana to go with the surf clam curry. I want to liven up Miura-san's Tomakomai. Marutoma Shokudo is filled with the desire to make everyone happy. Please stop by when you come to Hokkaido! .