Our Cybertruck has successfully driven issues. As our first eight months come to be useful to people considering using the things I absolutely love about this truck, One, it's bulletproof to a 9-millimeter it also catches an insane amount of eyeballs, sword. I'll get to that more in a second. incredible. Combined with the rear-wheel steering, and I really do think this will be However, the ownership experience over the and roses. I have driven three different the gold one I plated in real 24-karat gold and which I own. Two of the three had a screw in the fix this on my own, obviously. Tesla doesn't have been five recalls for other things. The most black and fails to boot up when moving in reverse. Tesla just released an easy over-the-air There have been some pieces of trim and this one needs a visit to the service center back down. This is a bigger deal since parts and it does show that the stainless like Tesla claimed back at the original everyone I talked to seems shocked that the which is just another residual claim from that or corrected. The truck that shipped was very There were some onscreen icons with small text update. The fourth recall was a bit more dangerous getting stuck in the full open throttle position. should have caught before release. Under pressure, at 100%. The brake pedal overrides the throttle with the throttle pinned, but still, it's kind of the throttle pedal in place. I probably would the windshield wiper motor for the astronomically current and might fail in the future. but they don't have replacements for that Personally, I think the larger recalls are video where I segued into a rather glorious the edit and sent the video off to the and I quote, &quot;We would rather not be featured Which is 100% understandable and actually speaks a well-respected brand that you've all heard of because it would hurt their brand more than help Let's get back to the video. The first big is the headlights. If you take a look at all the Rivian, the Lightning, and the Cybertruck, three have light bars on the front, but those are illuminate anything. The Cybertruck's headlights whereas both the Lightning and the Rivian's are off the ground, the better you're able placed on top of a hill and not a college when the trucks are placed side by the headlights all cover about Except for when it's snowing. For the Rivian they kind of just bounce off or melt away. But the the headlight where snow can accumulate and make where snow is a fairly common thing, and but the light bar itself, which cannot the snowflakes as they fall, creating that I were driving with my brights on, even of this problem years ago and put a piece so that the light would not reflect into the The Cybertruck's poor visibility in weather is my like towing? We tow with our trucks quite a moving in general. I just assumed and trusted gave us, but I should have known from towing at the launch event that Tesla was Diesel showed us that the steel bumper tube frame inside the truck. And cast aluminum, chain is only as strong as its weakest link, be where it fails first. I trust steel to tow aluminum. And it wasn't just Whistle and Tesla has sold about 30,000 of these trucks there are about three that have had the hitch how many have had this problem since I'm sure this aluminum has no fatigue limit and will fail over One of the reasons why the Cybertruck is not know this before, has a self-certification safety themselves whether their vehicles are safe or itself. Which seems kind of lax in my opinion, which is why the Cybertruck is not allowed for Highway Safety has also not given the we're all just trusting an internal thumbs-up Either way, as a work truck, we have stopped the risk is too high. We still have the Rivian and for spontaneous disassembly. And it is a bummer Finally, the last factor in my review of the be a mobile billboard. It gets a lot of eyeballs of Tesla, Elon Musk, makes controversial tweets why no one has assassinated Kamala Harris, if this was a personal vehicle and I supported big of a deal, but since I run a wheelchair in the largest audience possible as any business a factor that needs to be considered. Those kinds with my business slapped on the side, it looks as definitely do not. So what do I do? Do I sell and I was never super emotionally attached to the electric Silverado with 492 miles of range and the which is very tempting, or I could just think down in the comments, and thanks