My name is Steve Pinker, and I'm Professor today I'm going to speak to you about language. cognitive scientist. I'm not so much interested but as a window to the human mind. in the human sciences. It's the trait from other species, it's essential to human by sharing our knowledge or coordinating our scientific mysteries such as, how did language the brain compute language? But also, language given how central it is to human life. apt to forget what a strange and miraculous doing for the next hour. You're going as he exhales. Now, why would you do something the sounds I'm going to make are particularly into the exact sequences of hisses and hums You have the ability to recover the information share ideas. this talent, language, but with a slightly I could cause you to be thinking thoughts the latest developments in your favorite reality This is what I think of as the miracle of a phenomenon that still fills me with wonder, years. And it is the prime phenomenon that Not surprisingly, language is central to human Babel reminds us that humans accomplish great about their knowledge and intentions via the is not a peculiarity of one culture, but it by anthropologists. all of them complex, and no one has ever discovered For this and other reasons, Charles Darwin to speak as we see in the babble of our young tendency to bake, brew or write." Language is an intricate talent and it's should be a complex discipline. works including: grammar, the assembly of study of sound; semantics, the study of meaning; in conversation. study how it is processed in real time, a acquired by children, the study of language brain, the discipline called neurolinguistics. Now, before we begin, it's important to that are closely related to language. One language, which is found in all human cultures very small number of times in human history, And alphabetic writing where each mark on appears to have been invented only once in 3,700 years ago. And as Darwin pointed out, but have to learn it through construction A second thing not to confuse language with between descriptive grammar - the rules, that grammar - rules that characterize how people written prose. only are these not the same kinds of rules, make no sense whatsoever. Take one of the split infinitives. a grievous grammatical error when he said boldly go where no man has gone before." editors, "to go boldly where no man has with the rhythm and structure of ordinary was based on a clumsy analogy with Latin where a single word, as in facary[ph] to do. Julius if he wanted to. That rule was translated should not apply. one should never use a so-called double negative. get no satisfaction," he really should have Now, this is often promoted as a rule of is just as much of a double negative as "can't" get any satisfaction" is deemed correct ungrammatical is that the dialect of English century used "can't" "any" rather If the capital of England had been in the of the country, then "can't get no," any," would have been deemed incorrect. There's nothing special about a language for a given country. In fact, if you compare each one is complex in different ways. Take also called Black English or Ebonics. There you can say, "He be workin," which is of Standard English, but in fact conveys a than simply, "He workin." "He be workin," workin," means that he happens to be working made in African-American English that is not in which the dialects have their own set of as the one in the standard language. with is thought. Many people report that have shown that there are many kinds of thought of sentences. (1.) Babies (and other mammals) communicate For example, we know from ingenious experiments before they've learned to speak, or other of cognition, they register cause and effect all without the benefit of speech. thinking have language, namely adults, a lot of thinking example, visual imagery. If you look at display, and I would ask you, do they have don't solve that problem by describing those an image of one and mentally rotating it into thinking. language and remember the gist language, what you come away with is not in Another important finding in cognitive psychology records the gist or the meaning or the content the words. some memory of what I have been saying for if I were to ask you to reproduce any sentence of doing so. What sticks in memory is far that we can call meaning or content or semantics. In fact, when it even comes to understanding a vast iceberg of a very rapid, unconscious, even to make sense of the language itself. bit of poetry, the lines from the shampoo of language, you have to know, for example, hair a second time because its already wet, see "repeat," you don't keep repeating means, "repeat just once." Now this language had in mind is necessary to understand it come from? it would raise the question of where language without language. After all, the English of Martians who came down to Earth and gave phenomenon. It's the original wiki, which thousands of people who invent jargon and get accumulated into the language as people and that's how we get a language in the Now, this not to deny that language can affect in what has sometimes been called, the linguistic (note correct spelling, named after the two that language can affect thought. There's linguistic relativity hypothesis, but no one thought and that all of our mental life consists Now that we have set aside what language is with the question of how language works. three topics. of sentences that are stored in a part of lexicon or the mental dictionary. There we use to assemble bits of language into more the rules that allow us to assemble words rules that allow us to assemble bits of words, Phonology, the rules that allow us to combine And then all of this knowledge of language that allow us to understand language coming can understand us, the language interfaces. Let's start with words. by the Swiss linguist, Ferdinand de Saussure, to the arbitrariness of the sign. Take for "duck" doesn't look like a duck or walk use it to get you to think the thought of our lives have memorized that brute force which means that it has to be stored in memory and an entry in the mental lexicon might look the word itself, there is some kind of specification of its meaning. mental lexicon is how capacious it is. Using take the top left-hand word on every 20th in a multiple choice test, correct for guessing, you can estimate that a typical high school words, which works out to a rate of learning from the age of one. When you think that telephone number of a date in history, you're human long-term memory to store the meanings But of course, we don't just blurt out individual And that brings up the second major component Now the modern study of grammar is inseparable famous scholar, Noam Chomsky, who set the last 60 years. puzzle that we have to explain in understanding call it productivity, the ability to produce Except for a small number of cliched formulas, understand is a brand new combination produced even in the history of the species. We have it. It shows that when we know a language, of sentences, but rather have internalized elements into brand new assemblies. For is really properly a branch of psychology A second insight is that languages have a meaning. Now, the only quotation that I it into Bartlett's Familiar Quotations, 1956, "Colorless, green ideas sleep furiously." The point is that it is very close to meaningless. instantly recognize that it conforms to the example, "furiously sleep ideas dream colorless," as a word salad. of a string of word by word associations as where producing a word is a response which producing the next word, and so on. Again, furiously," can help make this point. Because probabilities in that sentence, for example, heard colorless and green in succession. Probably never occur together, ideas and sleep, sleep probabilities is very close to zero, nonetheless, a well-formed English sentence. The word in one position in a sentence can downstream. For example, if you begin a the line, there has to be an "or." If somewhere down the line there to be a "then." to his father, "Daddy, why did you bring out of, up for?" Where you have a set to the study of good prose style is that sentences they have too many long distance dependencies memory of the reader or listener while trying Rather than a set of word by word associations, structure that looks like an upside down tree. in the case of English. One of the basic of a noun phrase, the subject, followed by A second rule in turn expands the verb phrase. by a noun phrase, the object, followed by that it was sunny outside." Now, why do linguists insist that language rules? Well for one thing, that helps explain mainly the open-ended creativity of language. (2.) Rules allow for expression of unfamiliar It allows us to express unfamiliar meanings. that when a dog bites a man, that isn't news. The beauty of grammar is that it allows word in brand new combinations. Also, because produce a vast number of possible combinations. (3.) Rules allow for production of vast numbers Moreover, the number of different thoughts power of grammar is not just humongous, but of course, no one lives an infinite number ability to understand an infinite number of same way that a mathematician can say that knows that there are an infinite number of have found the longest one, you can always a one to it. And you can do the same thing Let me illustrate it in the following way. that there is a world's longest sentence. Who would make such a claim? Well, who else? can look it up. There is an entry for the words long. And it comes from a novel by 1,300 words, but I'll just tell you how "They both bore it as though in deliberate from there. is not the world's longest sentence. And in Guinness by submitting the following record it as though in deliberate flatulent exaltation." after all but only the proverbial 15 minutes you could submit a record breaker for the Faulkner wrote&quot; or &quot;Pinker mentioned that cares that Pinker mentioned that Guinness Take for example, the following wonderfully "On tonight's program, Conan will discuss Now this has a perfectly innocent meaning two things, namely the topic of discussion, discussed, in this case, with Dr. Ruth. But rearrange the words into phrases according with Dr. Ruth" is the topic of conversation, Now, phrase structure not only can account but it's also necessary for us to understand in a phrase structure is essential to figuring Another important contribution of Chomsky language acquisition by children. Now, children of language isn't just one long list of distill out or abstract out the rules that they hear coming out of their parent's mouths using rules to produce combinations is in speak. At the two-word stage, which you typically older, kids are producing the smallest sentences two words long. But already it's clear rules in their own mind. To take an example, take them outside or let them stay outside. So it's not a phrase that the child simply children are using these rules to put together Another example, a child having jam washed sticky'. Again, not a phrase that you one that shows the child producing new combinations. Past tense rule rules of grammar unconsciously from the moment tense rule. in which they make errors like, "We holded and then he sticked it." Cases in which the past tense, add 'ed' to irregular And it's easy to show... it's easy to rules productively in a laboratory demonstration a lab. You show them a picture of a little you show them another picture and you say, are two and children will fill in the gap could not have memorize because it's invented have productive mastery of the regular plural And famously, Chomsky claimed that children by having the general design of language already grammar. have to look like. What is the evidence that children are born Chomsky didn't propose this by actually but through a more abstract argument called, if you look at what goes into the ears of with as adults, there is a big chasm between that the child has a lot of knowledge of the the things that children have to learn when Now, children will get evidence from parent's as sentences like, "The man is here," man here?" that kind of input could posit two different by word linear rule. In this case, find it to the front. "The man is here," complex rule that the child could posit called at the geometry of the phrase structure tree. the first "is" after the subject noun A diagram of what that rule would look like that occurs after the subject noun phrase of the sentence. word-by-word rule and the more complex structured when it comes to performing the question from man who is tall is But how is the child supposed to learn that? structured dependent of the rule rather than rule? actually to look at the kind of language that to hear a sentence like, "Is the man who would logically inform you that the word-by-word rule is right. Nonetheless, we all grow dependent rule rather than the word-by-word like, "is the man who tall is in the room," they use the structure dependent rule. And structure dependent rules are part of the are born with." Now, though Chomsky has been fantastically does not mean that all language scientists of critiques of Chomsky over the years. For hasn't really shown principles of universal as opposed to general ways in which the human and vision and control of motion and memory grammar is specific to language, according Secondly, Chomsky and the linguists working world's languages and shown that the principles posited it based on a small number of languages but haven't actually come through with the universal grammar is really universal. shown that more general purpose learning models, of learning language together with all the has not proven that there has to be specific child to learn grammar. Another component of language governs the vowels and consonants can be assembled into as this branch of linguistics is called, consists possible word in a language according to the the sequence, bluk, is not an English word, word that someone could coin a new form... that we pronounce "bluk." But when you not only isn't it an English word, but it the way, comes from Yiddish and it means kind ****. English is because it has sounds like **** and the formation rules of English phonology. the basic words of a language, there are also the sounds, depending on what the other words for example, in English, that the past tense in three different ways. When we say, "He a "ta," walked. When we say "jogged," when we say "patted," we stick in "ed" can be readjusted in its pronunciation language or acquires a foreign language in of their first language and apply it to their we call it an "accent." When a language phonology, that is, when they don't just attention as to what phonological structures So far, I've been talking about knowledge what are possible sequences of language. But during speech comprehension and they have that takes us to the topic of language interfaces. And let's start with production. This diagram here is literally a human cadaver took a saw and [sound] allowing it to see that can illustrate how we get out knowledge of sounds. or trachea, a complex structure called the Apple. And the air coming out of your lungs that vibrate and produce a rich, buzzy sound sound gets out to the world, it has to pass tract. The throat behind the tongue, the by the lips, and when you block off airflow the nose. that, thanks to the laws of physics, will sound source and suppress others. We can move our tongue around. When we move our as in "eh," "aa," "eh," "aa," tongue, change the frequencies that are amplified as two different vowels. we change the shape of the resonant cavity "eh," "ah." Once again, the change a change in the nature of the vowel. it as in, "t," "ca," "ba." Then even when we restrict the flow of air as in sound. Each one of those sounds that gets by the brain as a qualitatively different Now, an interesting peculiarity of the human that evolved for different purposes for breathing an... And it's an interesting fact first of evolution has descended in the throat so mouth through the esophagus to the stomach with some probability of being inhaled leading fact, until the invention of the Heimlich died of choking because of this maladaptive Why did we evolve a mouth and throat that plausible hypothesis is that it's a compromise allow us to speak. By giving range to a resonant cavities, for moving the tongue back range of speech sounds we could make, improve compromise of an increased risk of choking survival advantage that compensated for the What about the flow of information in the the brain, the process of speech comprehension? Speech comprehension turns out to be an extraordinarily reminded of every time we interact with a dictation on our computers. For example, systems dictated the following words into and it came out on the screen as "back to truly couldn't see," and it came out on more disconcertingly, he started a letter dad," and what came out on the screen, "The Now, dictation systems have gotten better before they can duplicate a human stenographer. What is it about the problem of speech understanding so hard for a computer? Well, there are two that each phony, each vowel or consonant actually comes before and what comes after. A phenomenon Let me give you an example. The place called Each of them symbolized by the letter "C," pay attention to the way you pronounce them, in very different parts of the mouth. Try In one case, the "c" is produced way much farther forward. We don't notice ways depending whether it comes before an forms a difference in the shape of the resonant different wave form. And unless a computer into account, it will perceive those two different speaking, they really are: "c-eh" "c-oa". brain lumps them together. such a difficult problem is because of the illusion when we listen to speech that consists But if you actually were to look at the there would not be little silences between white space in printed words on a page, but of one word leads right to the beginning of It's something that we're aware of... we listen to speech in a foreign language the other one begins. In our own language, in our mental lexicon, we have stretches of us where it ends. But you can't get that In fact, there's a whole genre of wordplay boundaries are not physically present in the and dozy doats and liddle lamzy divey A it turns out that this is actually a grammatical oats and does eat oats and little lambs eat When it is spoken or sung normally, the boundaries sequence of sounds can be perceived either meant to convey, as sentences. Fuzzy Wuzzy was a bear, Fuzzy Wuzzy had was he? And the famous dogroll, I scream, We are generally unaware of how unambiguous and unconsciously derive the intended meaning with all of our common sense and human abilities is often flabbergasted by all the different as "Mary had a little lamb," you might sentence. But now imagine that it was continued that "have" is actually a highly ambiguous can often deliver comically incorrect results. According to legend, one of the first computer English to Russian and back again did the is willing, but the flesh is weak," it translated the meat is rotten." better than computers? What is the knowledge into our machines? Well, there's a third the mind, and that is the subject matter of namely, how people understand language in and their expectation about how other speakers The most important principle of Pragmatics namely; assume that your conversational partner across truthfully and clearly. And our knowledge and phonology and so on, is deployed effortlessly, For example, if I were to say, "If you You understand that as a polite request interpret it literally as a rumination about the person wanted something and was using politely. in robots as a source of humor. As in the had a robot named, Hymie, and a recurring would say to Hymie, "Hymie, can you give remove his hand and pass it over to Maxwell hand," in context means, help me rather in action. Consider the following dialogue, says, "Who is he?" Now, understanding pronouns, in this case who the "he" refers exactly who the "he" is, presumably John's explicitly in any part of the dialogue. This a vast store of knowledge about human behavior, we often have to use that background knowledge does a pronoun like "he" refer to. It's to say the least to program into a computer. Language is a miracle of the natural world number of ideas using a finite set of mental lexicon of memorized words and a powerful thought of in this way should not be confused of proper grammar or style or with thought Modern linguistics is guided by the questions, the linguist known as Noam Chomsky, namely possible? What are the abstract mental structures acquire them? what does that say about the human mind? including computers that understand and speak, the teaching of reading, writing, and foreign of law, politics and literature. fascinating because it speaks to such fundamental is really at the center of a number of different of human biology, of human evolution, that species. Language is a window into human nature, power of language is one of the wonders of