ANDREW HUBERMAN: Welcome where we revisit past potent and actionable for mental health, physical [MUSIC PLAYING] I'm Andrew Huberman. And I'm a professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. Today is episode And it is office hours. Office hours, as it's where students come to sit down and ask questions, about things that or to simply go down the route depth and detail. Somebody asked, what is the I'm presuming they mean of that sort-- in setting circadian rhythms? Is it OK to view Or will that wake me up? Will a fire in my fireplace be too much light? Great question. Turns out that moonlight, a fireplace, if you have one in the fireplace, do not reset and trick your brain into even though, if you've ever sat a candle, that light And there are two reasons The first one is that these discussed in the these melanopsin called intrinsically those cells adjust their And those cells respond best to in the rising and setting sun, also discussed in But those cells adjust their not activate the triggers in signals when they view a really bright moon, or fire, crucial it is to avoid bright of about 10:00 PM and 4:00 AM, things for sake of safety I also received a lot of In principle, red light the melanopsin wake up the brain and circadian However, most of the red lights, that come on these that people are supposed to access a number those are way too bright wake up your body and brain. So if you're thinking for sake of avoiding the later in the day and want that red light certainly much dimmer of those commercial products. Now, do you need red lights? No, although red convenient because you can But if they're dim, they won't They won't have this that we talked about in OK, a huge number of through windows. Setting your circadian coming through a window is going You can download the You can have a bright day Hold up that app. Take a picture. It'll tell you how many lux Now, close the window. And if you want, Or don't open the screen. You can do all sorts And you'll see that it will at And it doesn't scale linearly-- lux outside, 5,000 looking And then I close the window. And it's 2,500 lux. It does not mean to view that sunlight if it's half as many lux. It's not like 2,500 lux means and 5,000 lux means you It doesn't scale that way just work that way. Best thing to do is to If you can't, next best thing to It is perfectly fine to and contacts. Why is it OK to wear when those are glass also diminishes the effect? Well, we should The lenses that you wear by prescription or designed to focus the light So let's think some of these recommendations empower you with the ability to of light viewing depending on time of year, factors. The important is that early in the day, clocks and all these mechanisms OK, I want to talk about these things as they relate So as all you know, the Earth on its axis. So part of that day, depending on where we are. The other half of the we're in darkness. The Earth also travels 365 days is the time that it that sun. The Earth is tilted. It's not perfectly upright. So the Earth is So depending on where we and depending on where we Northern Hemisphere or some days of the year Some are very short. Some are very long. If you're at the equator, in day length and And if you're you're going to experience And you're also going to depending on which pole you're The simple way to put this the days are either getting Now, every cell in your according to day length, except don't actually know It only knows night length. And here's how it works. Light inhibits If days are long that means melatonin is reduced. If days are getting shorter, is getting longer. So every cell in knows external day length by way of the duration By understanding that light inhibit melatonin to be associated with a more of these kind of mood-elevating signals that you have some by way of light, but also artificial light, I believe, to make so that if you're feeling how much light am I getting? When am I getting that light? Because sleep is also So you need sleep. You can't just crush and expect to feel good to fall asleep and stay asleep. Melatonin, not is synthesized from serotonin. Serotonin is a is associated with feelings that proper levels, but well-being associated and the feeling that we in our immediate It's the kind of thing or sitting down with friends, or conversing with somebody Serotonin does not It tends to stimulate stillness. Very different than dopamine, which is a reward, that stimulates action. And actually, dopamine to epinephrine, to adrenaline, into action. It's actually made So you can start to think is very powerful for and wakefulness but melatonin levels. And I talked about But I'll mention once more that reduces dopamine levels it can start causing problems and mood. That's one powerful reason in the middle of the night. Throughout this podcast I've been mentioning things like serotonin which tend to bias certain brain to happen and certain brain not to happen. One of the ones I've mentioned which is a neuromodulator that make us want to move. In fact, when it's released and body, it can lead to what of being stressed. Several people asked me, between epinephrine Adrenaline is secreted from sit right above our kidneys. Epinephrine is the except that it's released Epinephrine and adrenaline And they tend to stimulate to move. I got a lot of questions What forms of exercise are When should I There are basically that we can talk about, I realize there are many There's much more But we can talk about the idea is to repeat a and over continuously. So that would be like running, this kind of thing. Or there's a where you're moving, lifting, things of progressively that you couldn't do Now, you will see some is best done in the is best done in the afternoon. I think there's far more I think there are, however, that the exercise science literature points to to body temperature in which injury is reduced, and so on. And those tend to be 30 three hours after waking, usually 11 hours when temperature tends to peak. A note about working out last time, we talked about If you exercise first your body will start to develop There's actually plasticity in will lead you to want to wake that you exercised the So that can be a powerful tool. But you still want to get light that light and exercise an even bigger wake up So you might want Some people find if they they have trouble sleeping. In general, intense whereas the kind of lower Many of your questions which is the brain and nervous in response to experience. There was a question these really deep biological time of waking, subject to neuroplasticity. And indeed, they are. Some of that plasticity And some of it is There's a really which is if you happen to where every day, say, and 7:00 PM is when I'm not suggesting you do this. But let's say you were to do After a few days, to anticipate those mealtimes you were in the world, no matter about 5 to 10 minutes you would start to a little agitated, which is to get you to forage for food. And that's because of that come from the periphery, like hypocretin orexin that and brainstem to make you active and feel hungry. So there's kind of an that's a chemical circuit. But eventually, over time, the that control get tuned to the neural circuits and maybe even smell a kind of eating circuit to your rhythms. The same thing is true for and other schedules, If you wake up in the morning you start exercising or you exercise pretty soon your body will start to secrete hormones and your body for the ensuing to sleep. So if you get onto a even if that rhythm you'll find that there's And it becomes easier if that's your thing or if that's your thing. That's the beauty A number of people asked, what And that really There's plasticity that to improve rates of of learning from the And there's this NSDR, that can be done to improve rates of learning and So let's consider those both. And you can incorporate Again, these are based on First, let's talk about This is based on some work that That was published in Excellent journal. Matt Walker also of these studies done by others The studies, just structured the following way. An individual is brought does a spatial memory task. So there tends to be of different objects in different locations. So it might be a bulldog's face. It might be a cat. Then it might be an apple. Then it might be a pen And that sounds trivially easy. But with time, you gets pretty tough to come if something presented was something you've seen it was presented or a different location. If you had enough objects and this can actually In this study, the just went through the was released into the room or a tone was played in the And then during the sleep of night and the following night-- this was done repeatedly the same odor or tone was were sleeping. They did this in non-REM sleep and Rapid Eye They did this with If the subjects had had they did it with If they had had the odor all the controls, want to see done to wasn't some indirect effect, And what they found the same stimulus, the odor if if the subjects heard a tone delivered that odor or tone rates of learning and was significantly greater. This is pretty cool. What this means is that you brain, the asleep brain, to and faster. So how might you implement this? Well, you could play I don't see any real provided the odor is a safe and the tone is a safe one You could do this by for instance, while in the background and then have that very So you could apply this The other form of is not the neuroplasticity amplifying by listening to but the neuroplasticity with non-sleep deep rest. So NSDR, Non-Sleep Deep Rest, which are very close because people rarely drop into short naps unless they're NSDR has been shown to increase for 20 minute bouts to match of learning. So what am I talking about? 90-minute cycles are these I've talked about previously. And we tend to learn very well transitioning into some focused it's hard to focus. And then deep focus and like agitation and strain. And then by the end of it becomes very hard to information. There was a study published great journal. Excellent paper showing that of the non-sleep deep rest to it-- doesn't have to be the last sentence of learning or But a couple of minutes to a period of non-sleep deep the analysis of duration has been shown to to a significant degree, both and the retention So that's pretty cool drug-free way of accelerating more sleep but simply by bouts. I would encourage want to try this to consider minutes of ultradian learning to the next thing about which is nootropics, a.k.a. smart drugs. [SIGHS] This is a big topic. That sigh was a sigh to address nootropics in a enough way. There are elements to learning before that are very concrete, to focus and put the blinders happening around you and in about things you should or might be doing, and focus And then that's the acetylcholine That will then allow the particular synapses that So no nootropic allows for sleep and deep rest. That's important to understand. Right now, most nootropics tend together. Most of them include some You can't just ingest more It doesn't work that way. Most nootropics also or are designed to things like Alpha-GPC and And indeed, there's that they can increase So we need the focus component. We need the alertness component. The alertness component comes from caffeine stimulation. The acetylcholine comes from choline donors or And then you would want to because anything that's your alertness that then not a crash into the deep, that you would It's a crash into the kind of-- let's just call it lopsided But it lacks certain of the physiology-- that really engage the learning of synapses. So right now, my stance on maybe for occasional use, I'm not recommending it. But in general, it tends to than is probably going to be in the long run. I'd like to continue by talking in sleep, accessing sleep, Temperature is super relates to circadian rhythms First, let's take a look at temperature across In general, our temperature 4:00 AM and starts creeping and peaks sometime between There's also an temperature matches day length. In general, as tends to be hotter But in general, And as days get shorter, it So temperature and day Metabolically, they're linked. Biologically, they're And atmospherically, they're that we talked about of day length and other So one of the most about setting your is that your to fall into a regular rhythm. And that temperature has a like metabolism feel most willing and Typically, the willingness in any kind of activity, is going to be when is steepest, when the slope That's why 30 is one of those key windows as and then when peaks, which is generally-- generally about 11 So this is why we say that rhythm are linked. But they're actually even We've talked before about triggers activation cells, which then of the suprachiasmatic nucleus, And then I always say the informs all the cells and puts them into a But what I've never puts them into that rhythm. And it does it two ways. One is it secretes a peptide. A peptide is just that floats through and signals to the cells. But the other way is it under which those cells exist. So temperature is of the circadian rhythm. Nowadays, there's some interest Getting into an ice because you have a rebound Now, you should know that as that it will shift your And which direction it will depend on doing it during the If you do it after 8:00 PM, it's because your body and your to temperature going up early in and peaking in the afternoon. If you then increase that it over its baseline at 8:00 PM falling, even if it's just by of degrees or you do doesn't have to be with the you are shifting forward, you You're convincing your clock and that the day is still going. You're giving it the perception, perception, that the And you will want to naturally So for those of you that are and this is going to But a cold shower first thing But that's waking you up of a different mechanism, which But it also is It's phase advancing makes you more likely to It's going to make you want to an hour earlier the next Whereas if you do it while it will tend to delay perceive as if the But temperature is-- again, to manipulate wake up time and It is the effector. It is the way that clock impacts all the cells Light is the trigger. The suprachiasmatic nucleus that mediates all these by non-photic influence, and things of that sort. But temperature is the effector. Now, you can also shift your When you travel and you and your schedule is one way that we know you can is to get on to the Now, that probably has One are changes in increases in body temperature. Now, you should understand As well as eating secretion of hypocretin orexin Many people asked questions and how those relate to which is essentially 25 hours But I'm going to try and distill We've talked a lot like dopamine, acetylcholine, You may notice in that the precursors to say Tryptophan actually It comes from the Tyrosine is the It comes from the And then once we ingest are circulated to a variety of But it is true that our food can influence things like to some extent. Nuts and meats, in tend to be rich in That tells you right there is the precursor of is the precursor of that those foods tend toward the production of and the sorts of things that Now, of course, the volume impacts our wakefulness. If we eat a lot of it's ribeye steaks, rice, don't eat cardboard-- your will draw a lot of And you will divert And you'll become sleepy. So it's not just It's also about food volume. Fasting states generally are epinephrine, and so forth. And fed states are generally and relaxation, serotonin that lend themselves more toward alertness. And fed states are generally and relaxation, serotonin that lend themselves more toward alertness. There are a couple effects of or I should say, of eating because when it's sitting across the are powerful for modulating et cetera. And that's because we get eating-induced regardless of what we eat. And now you know from the that if you're eating you're tending to shift your want to wake up If you're eating even if you can fall there's a tendency to sleep later the next day. So as we finish up, I just want to do an experiment. It might be interesting, to write down for each day when and when you did that And then you might just take And you might note felt chilled or cold if you do. Or you might have or if you woke up in when you felt particularly hot. And then the last thing is just write down if and when protocol, NSDR that you're using to your nervous system how to more calmness in By doing this, you can start to patterns. It's really about taking of waking and light viewing and superimposing learning in this podcast and what you already to see where certain problems might be arising. Maybe you start to find that in the day is great for you. But using it late, if that's not great. Or if you're into some people, including or sit in a hot tub or well, then I get a compensatory And I sleep great, provided I can be kind of a dehydrating But if I do the sauna unless I exercise then I tend to get drop, which makes sense because You get vasodilation. You throw off a lot of heat. And then you generally in temperature. If you do that early in the that temperature is trying clocks of your body. So I just encourage you to of your own physiology, of and seeing how the various tools are affecting your your patterns of It's vitally do this, that you about trying to get onto an It's really about trying that are most powerful in the direction and changing the variables and your mind in the directions Self-experimentation that should be done You don't want to be And this is where I one or two variables going to be best as opposed all at once to really that's most powerful for you. And above all, thank you for [MUSIC PLAYING]