We're going to look at the difference between an We're going to look at the refrigerant circuit. and where you might locate an air-cooled The main purpose of the chiller of course is to in the way of people, people generate heat based it's less than they're doing exercise, we're doing and then you got lights, the different kinds you got plug loads, which is your, anything any machinery, and then you have your solar or the conductance of the temperature and the resistance of that wall will That's the heat we want to remove and bring that I'm going to show you how a refrigerant circuit chiller is somewhat similar to your home air refrigerant circuit and the four components refrigeration system, is you have the evaporator and on the other side you have the condenser coil over the coil. And then you have the compressor and then you have the expansion valve, or metering that goes from the high side here in red to the Now if we want to make this into an air-cooled and bring in a heat exchanger, a shell and water in and out of it, which will be cooled instead of having air blow over the cold coil will cool water, and water will be taken over a chilled water coil and cool the room. Now air-cooled still. We still have a fan blowing if we want to make this a water-cooled chiller, another shell and tube heat exchanger, So, now instead of the heat being thrown outdoors transfer the heat from the refrigerant to the to the cooling tower, we'll reject the heat the whole cycle over again. So all we've done here of the heat transferring and now we're from the refrigerant to the water, or from and the water never mix. In this case the and the water is going through the tubes. So, which is your computers or anything plugged lighting, and any solar. If you had windows here, outside air heat on the other side of the wall you have that heat generated in this that's represented by this heat molecule here, through the return air duct into the air handler and from there we take it into the chiller, Okay, now the heat has arrived from the chilled we brought it to the chiller, the refrigerant liquid, refrigerant on the and it absorbs the heat, and then that and gets compressed to a high side vapor and into the condenser water, and into And that's how we get rid of the heat from through the refrigerant circuit in the chiller, building now of course a water-cooled chiller package unit or split system that you find at evaporator, condenser, compressor, and expansion has all four of those, and to identify the insulated. Often times, the majority of times, that's to prevent heat from getting into the and then your compressor is going to be sitting not always but in this case it is, and into the top of the evaporator, and then at valve. Okay, now if we look at an air-cooled You can see your compressor, there's two of them, and then your evaporator. you can that's the evaporator, and here's the So, it's sucking from the evaporator into the the air cooled condenser. Now here's the coils and Turning this we can see that we're going to have the evaporator, so it's a dual circuit, meaning with this compressor, and another circuit an expansion valve, here for the separate circuit to control capacity, and here's the coils, and the refrigerant runs through there, and then and blown the heat straight up and out, and this chiller. All right, so if we look at this, that's within the chiller. The chiller has the condenser which is a heat exchanger, shell and three the compressor, and the fourth which is similar to the condenser. It's a shell by this low side liquid refrigerant coming in so the heat is given to the refrigerant causing to evaporate, and that evaporated refrigerant of the compressor which compresses the refrigerant vapor gas, which then travels to the condenser going to turn back into a liquid by giving up the shell and tube heat exchanger. Now they're separated by these tubes, the refrigerant liquid, high-pressure liquid, where it comes which meters the amount of refrigerant onto chiller. So, it goes from high to low pressure so the first thing we're going to do is give each which we're going to provide chilled water to. or there can be several on the roof. Somewhere you outdoors, you can get waterproof Now you got an air-cooled chiller. This has to floor. or it can be on the low roof, you can be on chilled water to each one of those air handlers. there from that air air-cooled chiller. So, if then you gotta pipe it from the roof. The good maybe it's out of sight if you don't have Now if you go to a water-cooled, you got the same floor, but then you have a water-cooled chiller. of these are indoors. You can get them made for times these are indoors. They're in the basement, wherever you put it, you still need to pump that but with water-cooled chillers you got one more the cooling tower. So, the cooling tower can on the roof. But once again you're going to water-cooled chiller up to wherever you put that routing of the piping of the condenser water. insulated, so you don't have that those cooling towers are big and heavy, the These things can weigh 30,000 pounds or more, so going to put that on the roof. So, you can put it but those are some of the things to think about. If you like that video please give it a thumbs