Luckily that's not your mom, and that's also egg squeaking to get mom to help you out. carries from the nest down to the river, using [Machine gun noise] That didn't take long. 8 inches and weighing 30 hanging around to do what she can to protect you, may seem like, per female, per year, that's a would be if 99% of you weren't consumed within the need food and you're not that big yet so you have months you decide to leave the starter zone with prey. With your feet by your side and using a your chance to strike and get your share of flesh. hierarchy among crocodiles that goes along the so you have to settle for squeezing into an un can't use food to warm up your body temperature heat through your specially designed skin. that's not right, let's quickly fix it. There we go. Look you survived year one, you'll now a foot bigger and after another year you're By 4 years old you've grown a foot per year and but you're rapid growth is going to start to now makes you a 1 in 1,000 crocodile. Not great needed to change since dinosaurs. After basking can't sweat, so that gives you two options. Jump your primary ways of thermo regulating your can take a nap at the same time to work towards handy very intimidating do not disturb sign. You security measure. You awaken from your nap to a you have to take anything you can get, so you it says on the tin, over to some leftovers for a you can't stick it out for a taste. Guess you just so it's time to head into into the water. Your you to completely submerge and hover motionless pits all over your upper and lower jaws which can even just a drop. It's been 3 years and you're now Cuban crocodile. You like the heat and heavily it's too hot and just opening your mouth when do a cozy riverside burrow to shelter from the heat. also be quite large with Nile crocs digging on the sun to warm your body 50 to 70% of the For comparison in humans this is about 3 to 4%. could go nearly a year without eating, living off not. It's not ideal for you but what is helpful from the comfort of your burrow. After another a freshwater crocodile. You've hit maturity so big enough to take some larger prey. Although you do possess some advanced cognitive function, drinking pattern of land animals. You wait for but you can with your advanced night vision. you protect your eyes with your third transparent nostrils, and throat, protecting them from the salt if necessary. After waiting 20 minutes stiff muscles that bulge out of your head give and as soon as your prey thinks it's safe to take bite hard but can't chew very well so opt for even knocked at a tooth, luckily you can just grow a chewer means you have to go pick up some extra also built up an oxygen debt and you're able to resulting in even more acid being produced you dissolve the prey. Time to head back to and species of reptile but don't really socialize, river. Unless you're a Saltwater, then males will also not that territorial again unless you're a you start to feel a slight nibbling on your tail. so you know you just have to accept it. Don't few years of this routine gives you West African older now and have learned that you don't always you. It's the bird nesting season and lots of good sticks to build their nests with. You might to cry. Don't worry, they're just crocodile tears. tear ducts which then overflow out of your eyes, empathy means you don't ever actually cry, and You've been mature for a number of years now, so riverside aggression you manage to find a partner, lots of snout touching and vocalizations, before female digs out a nest and lays around 50 eggs, of the eggs during the 2 to 3 month incubation with only females hatching at lower temps and the eggs but if something were to happen to her to specify which one you are this time. As soon the eggs and take them to the river. You take before they start getting picked off one by one. now around 16 ft, the average length of a Nile that's Saltwaters that have exceeded lengths what's available to you, it's easier to name what and stealth abilities, another reason why you've your back and tail forming your thick protective highly vascularized so you can absorb heat through size you can now lay claim to the best basking sharp hearing picks up the sound of your favorite river give you an excellent chance to grab a [Whistle] you are an awful creature that wouldn't feel but you do have an important role to play in flowing. Oh well, you can try again next year, all the way up to around 70 years old. We're not to be around 50 to 75 years. Your routine is and your belly walk is a bit slower. People keep the muscles used to open your mouth are actually you're basking away you feel the usual nibble on with them this time. What a great opportunity. I how this ends, you had a good run.