Every year since 2018, astronomers have sky. It is one of the brightest phenomena the average supernova look like a Some have been spotted closer to us, and others, enough to one another, but no one knows what observation and analysis, astronomers began but plausible theory. Until, in 2023, they saw These explosions are called Luminous there's simply nothing else like them out there. I'm Alex McColgan, and you're as we dive into the mystery of how they were discovered, and why they -- Being such a recently discovered event, the data we have on Luminous Fast Blue Optical The first LFBOT ever detected was identified just six years ago in 2018. And we've only As so little is known about them, it makes tricky. For now, what scientists do all these LFBOTs seem to share. So far, they very high optical luminosity, and being bright They're also very fast, as their name camera flash. They reach peak brightness and of hours or days. As you might know, a supernova dimming - but this dimming takes weeks or makes them difficult to spot and study. So, how -- NASA's ATLAS-HKO telescope in Hawaii is part that scans the entire sky several times a night ATLAS-HKO was performing its routine scan when 100 times brighter than a regular The scramble was on. Scientists immediately started analysing the They pinpointed the explosion as some 180 million light years away. the event was affectionately nicknamed &quot;The Once located, it was quickly classified as a type as a core-collapse explosion - is formed when But something about this particular When taking a closer look at The Cow's typical for a type Ib supernova. It and very weak helium lines. Scientists of a type Ic-BL supernova, and However, the more scientists poured over the data, the more surprised they were by what it started to look less and less like a supernova. For starters, it appeared out inactive to peak luminosity in just a supernovae usually take a few months to reach Not only that, it was registered to be ten to one Also, everything about the way it exploded was release their energy in a spherical shape. We supernova can be aspherical, due to the presence shape of the initial blast. However, upon closer explode spherically. The researchers themselves Soon enough, other theories were being be a monster black hole shredding it was a supernova that gave birth But let's step back for a moment. It's really hard to draw any conclusions the saying goes - once is an anomaly, twice is What researchers really needed was a bigger explosion - so they could compare observations -- Luckily, it didn't take long for a second similar explosion. A few the cosmic camera flashed again. And again, for of pulling animal nicknames from the last we had the beginnings of a LFBOT zodiac - The And just like that, they had events. They could start hunting for patterns. When analysing the Cow, Koala, and Camel, one of was the location of these events. Even though they each blast was registered as coming At first, this information emboldened just a type of core-collapse The kind of star that causes a core-collapse biggest types of stars you can get. the shorter its lifespan. This means that to travel very far before they die. It would very close to the star cluster where they were having such star clusters? Yup - the spiral But just as researchers something happened that caught -- Like the ATLAS-HKO in Hawaii, the Zwicky ground-based camera that scans the whole it detected another similar explosion. this optical transient started Instead of exploding once and fading away in the so-called &quot;Tasmanian Devil&quot; continued to expected. What's more, each of these the original explosion - which was Devil emitted more energy than hundreds of Researchers were deeply puzzled, yet again. It was unlike anything Now, I know the sceptics among Alex, this has got to be due to some kind of a fluke in quality control tests, or the history of science is littered with breakthroughs or discoveries, only to be But this is not one of those moments. telescopes around the world. They did in fact pulsate a minimum of 14 times Equally surprisingly, these mega-powerful scientists like a star that kept dying and being this strange phenomenon could provide brand new life cycles have only been studied as snapshots of In short, even though the multiple bursts of there was still reason to suspect a strange type of supernova, seeing violated the core-collapse supernova -- On April 10th, 2023, astronomers picked all the same characteristics as their LFBOT zodiac relatives. Except this one was not even Unlike all the other LFBOTs before it, &quot;The Finch&quot; 3 billion light years away from us, and 15,000 light years from the closest It was in the middle of nowhere, This was a huge blow to the leading theory. of massive stars' core-collapsing, there's no -- So, it was back to the They came up with two new theories to explain what could have caused The Finch The first suggests that The Finch could be intermediate-mass black hole - a black hole that Except, the existence of these Their smaller and larger relatives - stellar both been confirmed to actually exist. But However, should they exist, could they be Astronomers have shown in simulations that stars five times before being ejected. With each orbit being ripped apart by losing more and more mass. flung back out into the galaxy at speeds as consistent with the speed and brightness observed One of the most likely places researchers black holes is in globular star clusters halos that extend far beyond the visible in spiral galaxies like our the outer halo stretches some impressive 1 Some scientists think it is possible that a globular star cluster such and intermediate-mass black holes do exist was caused by these unusually sized The second theory researchers put forward the result of two neutron stars moving spirals until they collided. This which is known to be one of the One tell-tale sign of a kilonova is which come through as a hallmark &quot;chirp&quot; as two massive objects spin around each If we could find something like this it would lend strong credence to as bad luck would have it, our &quot;chirp&quot; detector Observatory - was down for maintenance at we don't know if such gravitational waves One thing we do know is that no is something you would expect to see with this explosion happened 3 billion light too far for whatever gamma-ray data there none of this data can conclusively -- It's frustrating to bear witness new and powerful phenomenon and not what is causing it. I guess patience is an But they're not sitting on their hands, either. Scientists are already planning to use the to carry out a search for any faint globular would hopefully clarify if they're on the right In the meantime, other researchers size. The more LFBOTs we can detect, the we have seen so far have taught us some The only way we are going to get a larger wide-field surveys like the ATLAS-HKO and the pinned on the Vera C. Rubin Observatory, a telescope which will scan the entire southern video about here. It is expected to be operational more light than all previous facilities. Follow-up telescopes will help analyse more information -- LFBOTs are a super new phenomenon that we themselves admit that the discovery of The The more we learn about these bright blue All there is left to do is what hundreds centuries before us - point our telescopes The universe might be full of mysteries, but have to be one of them. The sponsor of today's a website, along with every other app you might everything in the same place. Their website make and edit a website from scratch with just blocks into place, I could quickly customise adjusting their settings. It's really intuitive, alike. The first app you get with Odoo - such as and it all comes with free support, and unlimited simple website builder, why not scan my QR code, gain access to your 1-year free custom domain name Thank you for watching Astrum! If you like in this playlist. A big thanks to my patrons and added to the end of every Astrum video, check the