Life is short. It's ending one minute at a time. Why waste it on fulfilling other people's This is just one of those questions presented Fight Club. The film version of Fight Club directed by Norton, and Helena Bonham Carter, could be movies ever made when looking at its reception Fight Club isn't shy of over-the-top violence, and, of course, the obnoxious behavior of However, it's definitely more profound than The story is built on several thoughtful concepts to our own lives. It tells a story about a generation of people with false expectations, and repressed by What if our existence is pointless? What if God doesn't like us? What if we're nothing more than a compost How do we find meaning in a meaningless existence? This video explores several philosophical For those who aren't familiar with the story: The story of Fight Club revolves around three It's told from a first-person perspective called 'the narrator', who has a dead-end has fallen prey to what he calls the 'Ikea-nesting Dictated by social norms he walks perfectly into an inauthentic, repetitive and empty He suffers from a bad case of insomnia, which asleep. Sometimes, he entertains self-destructive state for his job, he prays for a crash or too sharply on takeoff or landing. During a flight, he meets an eccentric and Tyler seems to be the direct opposite of the He's a wolf rather than a sheep, disentangled He takes what he wants, without asking, and He's self-sufficient, has no superiors, The movie later reveals that Tyler and the a product of the narrator's imagination, combined with dissatisfaction with a dull, meaningless existence and a lifetime of repressed urges. The narrator is addicted to going to support give him the opportunity to cry, which seems The downside of his behavior is that he isn't parasites, yet acts as if he does, so he can But these benefits come to an end when another as well. This is a woman named Marla Singer, and her I quote: "It's cheaper than a movie and Marla is a self-destructive, chain-smoking moment, but finds it tragic that it never She steals food and clothes for a living and Even though the narrator, Tyler, and Marla all live their lives accompanied by a nihilistic Tyler seems to have figured out what causes story, his solution unfolds. Unfortunately, his character slides from a who's out to destroy modern civilization. Nevertheless, he exposes a series of harsh contemplating. The anti-consumerist stance of Tyler Durden about the modern way of life. Shortly after the narrator meets Tyler, he After this unfortunate event, realizing that The two meet, and the narrator complains about and almost complete wardrobe. Tyler responds rather indifferently and slightly his views on the matter. I quote: We're consumers. We are by-products of a lifestyle obsession. Murder, crime, poverty, these things don't What concerns me are celebrity magazines, name on my underwear. Rogaine, Viagra, Olestra... Tyler Durden, Fight Club End quote. It becomes clear that Tyler has quite an unconventional Murder, crime, and poverty are generally considered clothing from a certain brand, products that and help us with weight loss, are considered Tyler has contempt for the artificial, as part of the human condition, probably as long This way of thinking touches upon an ancient who believed that modern, civilized life hinders At the end of the movie, it appears that the when he was taken over by his alter ego, Tyler This deed was the first step onto the road authentic way of life and to (how Tyler puts especially the importance of material possessions." The narrator moves in with Tyler, who lives power failures, and no Ikea furniture. Slowly but surely, the narrator indeed detaches "Things you own end up owning you," Tyler And this simple piece of wisdom probably hits need all these worldly goods, and is actually Tyler Durden is a non-conformist, and shows, only purposefully lived in poverty, but also For him, social constructs are nothing more our true nature. Diogenes lived in a barrel, Tyler lives in Diogenes urinated in public, Tyler urinates Diogenes bit his opponents like a dog, Tyler The narrator, on the other hand, seems to his lifestyle completely to societal expectations. The problem with this behavior is that we people other than ourselves have laid out This need to conform, the fear of falling by what others think of us, this necessity way of life, just to feel 'accepted'. So, what if we stop caring? What if we reject the generally accepted norms, determine our own goals, regardless of the This is a fundamental difference between the this: "I am free in all the ways that you Ironically, later on in the story, Project that grows out of Fight Club, is a textbook the same clothes, are absolutely equal, abolish monkeys that sacrifice their lives for a greater We could say that by rejecting one doctrine imprison ourselves in another one. Fighting and the experience of pain play a At the beginning of the story, Tyler asks He explains his strange wish by saying: "How in a fight? I don't want to die without any scars." End quote. So, the narrator hits him. Tyler hits him back, and the two engage in Both seem to feel surprisingly pleasant afterward Their nightly activities on a parking lot also interested in joining these non-hostile And thus, Fight Club is born. It's widely known that voluntary exposure in the face of adversity, which could be a As the narrator states: "After fighting turned down." However, Fight Club is more than just a metaphor a physical fight, and the violence and aggression part of our being. Not only the men in the story are attracted a movie and novel was so impactful on its to emerge. The story shows an experiment in which the strangers (and are supposed to lose), which do everything to avoid physical conflict. Now, this video is in no way intended to endorse But Fight Club makes us wonder if it's a primal tendencies. Should we repress this part of human nature? Or, perhaps, integrate it in healthy and constructive When the story progresses, Tyler and the narrator Tyler criticizes the modern self-improvement Now self-destruction..." This statement is slightly confusing, as the in which faces are permanently mutilated and doesn't seem to be a sustainable way to But Tyler might be onto something when we of a false self. 'Self-improvement' often points to the a better job, a better body, more money. But why should we endlessly want to improve Why can't we just be happy with how things Or as Tyler states: I say never be complete, I say stop being fall where they may. End quote. We create an identity through material wealth, And as far as Tyler is concerned, this false are free to do anything we want. Therefore, the 'space monkeys' of Project You are not your job, you're not how much You are not the car you drive. You're not the contents of your wallet. You are not your f***ing khakis. You are all-singing, all-dancing crap of the End quote. Tyler makes a so-called human sacrifice, namely job in a convenience store. Raymond wanted to be a veterinarian, but didn't Tyler threatens Raymond, saying that if he he'll kill him. In this scene, Tyler points to another aspect of fears, negative self-talk, and all distractions, It's the destruction of everything within on our own terms. Many people go great lengths when it comes The problem is that running from pain means The prospect of incurring pain makes us anxious That is: choosing the less painful path, even and pleasure in the future. Tyler Durden deals with this by inflicting using lye. As expected, the narrator does everything techniques he learned at a seminar, and retreating But Tyler slaps him in the face, forcing him the greatest moment of your life, man. And you're off somewhere missing it." End quote. For the narrator, Tyler has one central goal: After putting him through suffering, and destroying aspect that must be crushed: hope. Losing all hope is freedom. And, therefore, he must reject what has rejected I quote: Consider the possibility that God does not In all probability, he hates you. End quote. Tyler states that we don't need God. That we shouldn't care about redemption And if we're God's unwanted children, Thereby, we lose all hope, but are also liberated Now we're truly free. Now we can create our own meaning, and live Tyler emphasizes the importance of knowing To achieve this, we must be willing to get unknown without safety brackets. The narrator, however, has difficulties letting He begs Tyler to not mess around, when he car, while hitting the gas. Tyler calls the narrator 'pathetic', and Hitting bottom isn't a weekend retreat. It's not a goddamn seminar. Stop trying to control everything and just After an inevitable car crash, Tyler states Fight Club is a story about rebellion against It criticizes the ways in which we are so and how people let social norms dictate their 'Stuff' has become our religion. The idols we worship are Ikea and Starbucks. And the more we immerse ourselves in such we start to resemble the things that we produce: human beings. Tyler shows us a way out. And even though his insights are profound, Fight Club, and its terrorist branch Project ideology, in order to fall into another, and beliefs could become very destructive. Nevertheless, Tyler challenges us to be self-sufficient us down, to live authentically and in the out of our comfort zones, and let the things Thank you for watching.