KRISTI BRADFORD: The general know how to interpret pressure. In fact, I didn't either. And so for each of you can actually click through. And if we have an we'll show it there as well. But then we have some text [MUSIC PLAYING] SPEAKER 1: Welcome to the we meet the people who work on Here's your host, Rachid Finge. RACHID FINGE: Today, we're from the Pixel Essentials team. She's been on the pod like Clock and Calculator. But today, we're discussing the SPEAKER 1: This is the RACHID FINGE: Kristi, since starting work on a did your relationship with KRISTI BRADFORD: I So I'm used to ice storms in the summer with I would say that working to the West Coast, where we in San Francisco and and then we go back it was more like my relationship with it. But there are where I feel like it's You check the weather And then you go out. Maybe you check it to drive home or something. You don't really think too much that you're looking at. And once I knew where and then had access to of Google, it was pretty Yeah, you're right. I actually didn't connect the speed with the how it will actually feel like. And in retrospect, I was why I end up on these hikes. And I'm like, really cold. So I think there is just from experiencing it as a And then there's also And that was really fun. RACHID FINGE: Avid listeners will know you were on of the other Pixel Essentials Clock, Calculator, Recorder. Before that conversation we're working on a weather app. We're just not ready KRISTI BRADFORD: I RACHID FINGE: Yeah. So we invited you back. It's here now. It's a dedicated app for the What prompted the change? KRISTI BRADFORD: So We knew that in the market we were the only didn't have a native application. But before we wanted to make an we did some studies. And we found out check the weather at So that's a huge percentage. RACHID FINGE: Wow. KRISTI BRADFORD: And So just behind some of like Gmail or your it ranks third as the most application on your device. So we're like, OK, we've And it's time to really give experience to our users so about many times, at least during the day, is ready right RACHID FINGE: I think anyone right now is finding very new, for our users to make everything Is there AI in the weather app? And how did that come about? What's your insight where it KRISTI BRADFORD: Yeah, I besides like the beautiful defined as uniquely is really our differentiators. And if I'll take a second AI's included there too. And so it's a little bit subtle. But there's 300 across the globe where we so landmarks, et cetera. If you look up Seattle, And all of that was which helped us keep our costs in the way that we wanted to. But on top of that, the that include AI-- probably the biggest one, because we really feel like I talked about, where I points to an overall or what you're And that's what we tried Report, which is really taking and trying to condense for How do I prep for it? All that I need to know, I'm in a rush in the morning. And that one just takes, And it summarizes it for you. RACHID FINGE: And something else I'm betting there is KRISTI BRADFORD: Yeah, The Weather Map, it looks map, which I think is great. It's something that people know. And they know how to read it. But the model and the way for precipitation, that's So it's built on from some of our partners. And we actually In August, we shipped and to Western Europe countries. And then we just it to support Japan, because it's the tail end So precipitation map, like layers come in, is But essentially, what supplements the So any radar system that you to catch precipitation trained on the historical data and the ability to forecast out be able to write. RACHID FINGE: And that's where I live near Amsterdam, So that's definitely KRISTI BRADFORD: Yeah. RACHID FINGE: Just coming as you mentioned, the AI like a couple of sentences perhaps that summarizes in the graphs and all that. How does that get generated? KRISTI BRADFORD: It's the core function which is taking this input. That can be short And in this case, it's So all the data points that is what it's taking But it's including all and daily forecasts as well. And it's basically and trying to talk like So it's trying to give it's going to be a But the rain will And then when you has the hard data bullet see exactly where the source came from. RACHID FINGE: And am I by Gemini Nano on device? KRISTI BRADFORD: Yeah, we We wanted to give that and reduce the latency of it. And then because we are taking it once a day and users who check it multiple the weather gets or it's constantly that we were going to be running RACHID FINGE: Now, there are certain jobs that from But they are not. And I imagine people might so hard about a weather app? You probably have some that will tell you the like the current the temperature for the So what is your experience of And was it perhaps less than you expected up front? KRISTI BRADFORD: Yeah, There's a lot of There's a lot of that you can also download. But more data when we was that over half people on their phones. So they don't want to to find a third party source. And I think what we anticipated was easy is we're So the same data that powers that you know and love, was accessible. And we had to plug and play. But then there were with the Weather Map-- And this became quite a how do we articulate or should is modeled forecasting data? And then how do we allow that they know and love? Because if you have examples like radar maps, you don't the mold with what and how they visualize it. But I would say it was figuring out how to say no. So if you're basically there's core And yeah, you could say, the toothpaste gets everywhere. So I wouldn't include And then you can keep For us, those to figure out where we kind of that functionally this is expect. And it's centered and we're not going too far. We're not like to make the UI super We're giving you just And I think that's probably From the surface level, But once you start and you have people about what they'd like have to come back what does this app need to do And I think it was that really was difficult. RACHID FINGE: Well, let's talk I think the Pixel Weather which, as you mentioned, Yet, it is very How did the design Where do you start app where, as you mentioned, And still, you have probably all How do you get from KRISTI BRADFORD: You I was reflecting on that we had the benefit So once you have you're kind of iterating on lots But you have to maintain And so I think the was actually learning from other out there and iterating-- taking small and learning from And so that's why we was one of the most important We wanted to keep like very top of the page. And we also knew some sense of customization. So we didn't want to where they could either hand or nephew and get into a tricky But we wanted to make And so we ended up applying down the page with all of the again, San Francisco And so I don't need that And I understand that because most places in the But UV index, for me, is Like, the potential could face with the I want to pull that up. And so that was really we had examples out there, And we had core pain provided from user feedback. And we could really iterate when we launched the V1. RACHID FINGE: So you're I can long press on a data and move it more in the Netherlands, And so everyone want to see and be KRISTI BRADFORD: Yeah, exactly. Even, I guess for you can pull that all the way RACHID FINGE: Which I did. KRISTI BRADFORD: Yeah. RACHID FINGE: I KRISTI BRADFORD: Jump RACHID FINGE: So there it can get complex How do you help people curate looking at apart from looks really nice? But how do you make can understand what it means? KRISTI BRADFORD: Yeah, I think that we kind of realized came from that background. But there was this huge benefit some meteorologists in house. And we were leaning a as well as the user feedback. And people don't isn't applicable to everyone. But general population know how to interpret pressure. In fact, I didn't either. And so for each of you can actually click through. And if we have an we'll show it there as well. But then we have some text So the example of pressure, what are the symptoms experience in high pressure And again, it comes where getting these crash from our in-house to include as much We basically wanted to videos to explain weather. But acknowledging that this glanceable, we wanted to provide that you could interpret it RACHID FINGE: So, so far you see in the Weather app. But then there's also a part quite literally when it was really raining The haptics play a And so it sort of feels You sort of feel that-- But it feels like in your hand on your phone. How did that come about? KRISTI BRADFORD: I'd like to say But obviously, I didn't. Haptics for Pixel are one of the that when you switch you can feel the missing of them there. And we had this new technology take your animations the haptics, the vibrations We thought, OK, this is a for accessibility, so you but also for that delight of-- again, I'm in San Francisco. And I really miss of like the Netherlands. But whenever there's rain you will actually feel that matches the density of the RACHID FINGE: Right. So if it rains harder, well, you feel them more. KRISTI BRADFORD: Exactly. RACHID FINGE: Wow. And there's actually a fun RACHID FINGE: Really? KRISTI BRADFORD: Yeah. So one of the other things if you don't have is the sound that it makes. And so if you find a place Taos, New Mexico is raining. If you find a place press on the icon for next to the temperature, you'll of the rain. RACHID FINGE: Really? KRISTI BRADFORD: Yeah. RACHID FINGE: Amazing. OK, that is a cool Easter egg. And I guess you heard it by Google Podcast. That is really nice. Coming back to design-- mentioned the frog, which is named Froggy internally. Froggy did somehow not make the Is he on vacation? Is he OK? And just for people and maybe people have seen reports when you search for or maybe you have a you can also show the weather on for example. And that will feature I suppose, but not in Why is that? KRISTI BRADFORD: I honestly He's been working He deserves a vacation. It was a tough decision. Because as a character, you see loves him. And half the population has And we didn't want to So we kind of took the equation for a second. And we just thought, what is What are we aiming for? And it came back to want it to be glanceable. And we want it to be And so in that chose to make the subtle in the background, this beautiful animation, and So there was truly a And we ended up a path that evokes a into the weather itself and and premium. So yeah, I hope Froggy You never know what RACHID FINGE: I'm sure he's Let's touch upon the-- before as well, the I guess there are have some sort of a Is there anything KRISTI BRADFORD: Yes. So if you're in a place where-- I don't know if you've ever seen But it's this little insight. And it gives you a forecast and stop down to the minute. RACHID FINGE: Right. KRISTI BRADFORD: It's and extremely accurate. It's that same model that we And so what that does is that data. So these radar that we get from And then we build on top of So this model is kind of the magic of is Google data. And it connects to that can tell you and stop of the But I think this ties back to and pain points. So the one thing that is a and so we did build in have application towards us. But our team-- we have team So we've got team members We've got team members in And then all of us also have And one of the big drawbacks as a team is that some a cut line of how many locations And so in our list wanted to give you as And today, there is I think we roughly track should be hopefully way beyond people need. But in general, this to check in on some my family back in the and do all of that to delete one location in And then you can see it And I can see the temperature here is versus my friend RACHID FINGE: What are any that everyone uses a where you are in the world, no matter what your job is? Have you been thinking about will try and use the same app? KRISTI BRADFORD: Yeah, thought a lot about that. And I think that the next level And this is weather in general. This is my hypothesis, is that forecasting, again, using I guess in supplement But on the top of that is you and I see the However, you might be a sailor. Or you might have that make you more and high humidity, whereas is the most amazing It just means that my skin super dry. So I think that's the thing, that the data is accurate and what do each individual user-- what do they need that's who's right next to them? RACHID FINGE: What about the I know it's been out now But perhaps there are already that you'd love to work on. KRISTI BRADFORD: have that haptics, sort of an immersive outside for when it's rainy and egg. But we also wanted to include And so we've actually And for the first version, in a couple countries-- in the But this is right of the seasonal effect and how people So that data will also show But the block itself It separates into three of for pollen. And then it gives you a very of how bad the pollen And on top of that, for a lot so there's grass, When you click into get the four-day forecast. So you can see if-- let's say, going to be a high And if somebody in your family it's great to know And it also gives you or the types of plants that So that was one level don't suffer from pollen. But I have got quite a few in the Seattle area, around producing a lot of pollen. So it's been very hard to that this is coming and it's And then after that, we RACHID FINGE: Kirsti, what it's like to test Are you actually testing if is accurate, given that it's Are you testing if they like the customization? And what about testing Was it always accurate? How do you test that? KRISTI BRADFORD: So we do test the A big portion of that is inside of Google. And then there's another So if we've got people reporting a different number than it actually is, And that's the type of that we'd love to open broadly. And then for the UI, on where people or what additional And all of this feeds into down the road. And then the AI Weather Report-- because it is AI accept some level of, let's We had the opportunity call it like tune the model So we wanted the AI Weather first and foremost. But we also wanted Otherwise, what's the point? And so let's pretend And at first, we put Very little personality. And we quickly realized from that it wasn't engaging enough. And so we turned the knob all within there some very where the personality might So maybe think about that you have who might be says interesting things. RACHID FINGE: And I there's maybe a everything you learn, to make sort of, let's say, the consistent with what KRISTI BRADFORD: Absolutely. And if you even the strings in RACHID FINGE: And that's the KRISTI BRADFORD: Yeah. See, I'm pretty far But the string in is based on some So the strings can And if you feed sometimes it'll that as low health associated with So we kind of have to tell the LLM, no, sorry, that So that's some of been able to do in RACHID FINGE: Kristi, about, apart from working and your team also You work on Clock, Calculator. And I'm sure we can talk about And people who are listen to the we had you on talking I'm just wondering, like to be the author of these by millions of people KRISTI BRADFORD: I was about to But I feel like above that is actually Just a factor of considering I don't have a physical alarm In fact, I think that we have in the apartment I'm not sure that the And then similarly, when I I'll pick up tape recorders. But it just kind of a that you used to have pieces of physical that you would separate to achieve everyday tasks checking the weather, recording fit now in this device all of the time. So I'd say it's And there's always something new to evolve the And then there is a You really can't where the quality would degrade. And you would not be able to because they're They don't have anything known that it's inside of the RACHID FINGE: Kristi, thank the Made by Google Podcast. And if there's ever another please come back. KRISTI BRADFORD: Yeah, of things I'd love to build. So I hope that I RACHID FINGE: [MUSIC PLAYING] SPEAKER 1: Thank you for by Google Podcast. Don't miss out on new episodes. Subscribe now wherever to be the first to listen.