- [Narrator] In her first two years at the Federal Trade Commission, Chair Lina Khan has already taken on the biggest tech titans in the world. - Her beef is with the biggest company. - [Narrator] And she's - I'm certainly not somebody who thinks that success is marked by a - [Narrator] That strategy for controversy and criticism. - This raises the question, Chair Khan, are you losing on purpose? - [Narrator] So what drives her to take on the toughest fights, and what - Antitrust lawyers say as they've seen the FTC - Over the last century, that when we have robust and robust competition, to have the strongest, - [Narrator] In 2021, the year the FTC issued 42 letters that's almost twice the amount in 2020, and the highest in more than a decade. - When the FTC does investigations, they type their own in knots for as long as a year. - [Narrator] And investigating the merger market overall. - More important is the chilling effect that they're having on - [Narrator] Stoller is a friend and former coworker of Khan. - They're trying to address activities that are central to coercive behavior in the economy right now by by big companies, dominant - [Narrator] And it's not just the number of mergers the FTC investigates. It's also the type of company - We are also entirely up against some of the most and most powerful companies in America. - [Narrator] But that hasn't stopped Khan from taking on companies - Lina's supporters do think that she's bringing the was too chicken in the past to bring. - [Narrator] But those big shots haven't necessarily panned out. In February, the FTC lost from acquiring virtual And in early July, a federal after the agency sued to block its merger with gaming company, Activision. The FTC appealed and the court rejected the agency's request to block In a statement, Meta said that the deal would bring to the ecosystem. Microsoft declined to comment. Despite the losses, Khan to take those cases to court. - As public enforcers, we to be bringing the hard cases the message that sends the enforcers don't think - [Narrator] Still, there's - It creates bad precedent for you, and perhaps even Wall Street and the companies start to tune you out and think it's worth fighting Lawyers I've spoken to, they say, maybe the FTC should take a step back and think more deeply that they wanna bring that Lina's trying to make - [Narrator] In a that in the last year and a half, the FTC has had 20 wins that were abandoned The cases that Khan's FTC has brought are not always straightforward. Microsoft and Activision so the agency needed the court that the merger could hurt The courts have had mixed - Lina says that over that the law came to put too much focus on what's called the which is measuring harm from measuring that in consumer Lina disavows this is really the purpose - What Lina Khan is doing at the center of antitrust policy again. And to say, actually it's about this law is about whether you can let people into the market or not to compete. - [Narrator] This approach to the FTC. The youngest FTC chair in history, she'd already made a name for herself by the time she was appointed. After graduating from college, where she looked at - It became clear pretty quickly that there had been a pretty steady trend of consolidation across the board. - [Narrator] And in 2017, she &quot;Amazon's Antitrust Paradox&quot; when she was still in law school. - That paper reimagines the She wants to think about and competitive harm - She essentially said, in America is, essentially, - Amazon declined to comment. That paper made her an - She's a symbol of a new approach to addressing monopoly power. - She has come to prominence when technology plays a and that's not gonna change in the future, it's only gonna get bigger. - [Narrator] When President he made antitrust a - I'm a capitalist, but capitalism without competition is not capitalism. (audience applaud) Capitalism without - When he made her Chair, it And that was a surprise to me and I think it was a President Biden thinks and that our monopoly crisis is a serious and core political economy issue that he wants to address - [Narrator] But Khan's for her to recuse herself from cases involving companies - Facebook is seeking the - I have to tell you that that they're entitled to - It's not a surprise that companies are gonna throw everything that they have at the wall to see what sticks. - [Narrator] She didn't recuse herself from the Meta/Within case despite an ethics prompting blowback. - There was no violation because I have not a - [Narrator] Khan is under investigation by three Republican-led house committees for her leadership at the FTC. The agency declined to comment, but criticism has come Republican Commissioner in early 2023, accusing The Commission, which is now solely democratic. In a February statement, Khan and the other commissioners said that while they often they respect her devotion to her beliefs. Khan has also faced employee discontent. - Lina Kahn came in that the FTC had done While that was appealing it was probably alienating and perhaps also to other or other former chairs. - We are fortunate to have extremely talented staff at the FTC. Of course, we work hard to make sure that the FTC remains - [Narrator] But despite around her strategy, Khan - My term goes until, through 2024, and I fully intend to continue serving. - [Narrator] Including drafting with the justice department on how the agency will - It doesn't seem like the FTC has a lot of time to change its strategy. So Lina Kahn has a relatively short window to accomplish as much as she can. (bright music)