Mozart or Pokemon? Okay, so that one sounds more Mozartian to me. All right I'm gonna go Mozart Yeah I'm with you there. Oh man! How is that possible?! Oh no. we're gonna see if we can figure out if game. Mark is a former college professor in October Composing Competition and he has a Advanced Techniques with rhythm and meter in Ready as I'll ever be! Are you confident? Yes! and these are simplified arrangements. What do you think so Mozart this is a bit of a gimme I think this Well I mean I hope it is, let's put it that nature of it it seems to kind of be very notey. very florid melodies as well. It seems though a little un-standard, a little non-standard uh the beginning over the pedal point is like okay I over the rest of it it seems like Mozart would the beginning you know what I mean like it would cadence and instead of missing that as well here I'm gonna go with Pokemon too and one of my like I feel like there would have been a V/V by giveaway. All right so we're going with Pokemon... All right, number two - Mozart or Pokemon? Yeah, that's yeah a nice little sentence. I mean of you know it's 8 bars it's got the sentence It's an awful lot of I chord that's the basically only 1 in 5 right so maybe it's I would say like that could be that kind of thing harmonically simpler in terms of you know. similar to the first one than I expected. All right make a call. What It sounds like Mozart to me but I don't low vote of confidence. I'm gonna go with Mozart too I thought just not a very technical thing but just the pacing of Mozart to me so I'm going Mozart. so presumably the opening theme. Nice. All right, we're two for two. All right, Mozart or Pokemon it's getting Okay, this one this one's an got some Mozarty elements but also some Oh sorry dance. I don't know this one's like I would be leaning more towards... Boy oh that sentence structure again you know. You got the thing is like so we're in C and we get kind of of weird to have a cadence and measure seven isn't I'm lean into any Pokemon with this one because say it's a Mozartian Pokemon. Let and the pickup I'm gonna go with Pokemon. Yeah, me All right, no.4. Mozart or Pokemon? Hopefully That's a tough man these are getting harder. of the things that I look at is baseline they're of inverted chords here but I don't know. I mean are those all the notes he said these are in there because that second chord is like a like taking away trills and kind of classical era okay all right so we're taking away the ornaments it sounds more like a Pokemon thing Mozartian that second in the second bar what is that it sounds good a two chord and up right you know what I mean is that like a so you're going poke you're going Pokemon I'm so out there for some of these voice leading argument I think. Just to spice things up I'll I don't know I'm leaning I think I, you don't really think so but let's find out. said I wanted to spice things up. The 'Cinnabar Interesting. All right this parallel Right have you heard the whole thing. Well, that's a weird one. It's a weird Well if that's Mozart I'm gonna be blown away but Why though? It's interesting like these phrase a like a four bar sentence really but um like it doesn't bother me that it he's turning in c minor and getting into E flat right like the progression There Is Not Unusual at I guess I would if you hear that sort of semitone like a raised being told kind of thing I feel like diminished seventh sort of Illusion yeah that kind little strange so I I'm going to base it entirely know if I've got three in a row but you know yeah don't know why something about the the E flat is all right what was that can we hear that now hang on a second I see a leading tone there should have been a should have been a waiting Miss we were four to three so before we go to about your new course right so I thought that not there isn't a lot of documentation on this in there just isn't a lot of discussion about Rhythm things that we do and we compose we have to put so having some kind of rigor to this and I study dissect what kind of rhythmic patterns they have kind of hook The Listener in and make something music that's all irregular meters you know five then the third section of the course we talk about it's kind of interesting like everything in film whole study on three so triple time and compound so in a nutshell that's those are like the people find that useful interesting but that's most understudied, least understood aspect you chords and Harmony there's some decent stuff rhythm is like yeah yeah go do your thing. All right should we go to no.6 let's do it. Okay so that one sounds more Mozartian to me Little Things I'm wondering about um so we get not a sentence not exactly a period I don't know end is sort of um such a classical little move what felt the most Mozart to me was the Cadence antecedent of a period you know it says three basic idea is probably right um all right that Cadence yeah I'm away with you there Mystery Dungeon Blue Rescue Team Awakening you're right yeah it's one of those uh larger for capling Illinois the notated bar is like two bar it's a musical man eight bar period yeah well and I missed the last three although I was kind my batting average is going down all oh boy here we go again this one it's like what is that 505 doing in two but then I know these are simplified so there that sort of makes sense for that you know um that can't be right right it's funny right so so thank for me and when I first suggested it to them they it'll be too obvious what Mozart really be the case I think you I'm gonna go Pokemon I mean that one sounds non-classical moves in there but it depends on a certain heroisms to it I feel like you're of you venture the gym it's time to battle like I I'm with you I think Pokemon too Pokemon it is kind of classical though it is all right number eight Mozart or Pokemon so immediately my gut says Mozart um why I don't I'm gonna go with Mozart based on that double neighbor tone thing yeah for a Mozart move so yeah we're both oh and then it goes off all right we got one six on a roll six to five we have a bonus round tastes what I understand try and guess which John all right sorry our score at the moment to five so let's get get some I mean I can't be a John Williams so obviously Princess Leia's theme that assuming the answers are on the next well right yeah yeah Marion is that is uh no that's the Han Solo and the princess um The Love Theme from is it from Raiders few of these we're all kind of around the it's this one right is that that's what I was messed that up and it's that climb that is so that's funny and all of these start with that um the a flat there too that's interesting and well I mean yeah this is a giveaway um but that one's interesting because it's got the tragic form of that uh opening Love Theme interval like that um that's interesting it's just there at these four themes that's funny so yeah yeah um that's funny. Nice, well you're By one? Well by one and I mixed up the However, you know you still out of the nine I got some work to do. Yeah you got some games . That's right but thanks for doing me Ryan. This was a lot of fun. I've never It shows me a lot of funny similarities Please go check out Advanced Techniques It's at filmmusicnotes.com and