Younger Dryas impact on ice. This is a hot topic that has been vigorously In 2017, The Glacier Ice Impact Hypothesis Geomorphology. The paper described four mechanisms that explained First, a meteorite impact on the Laurentide The secondary impacts by the ice boulders water table. Oblique impacts of ice boulders on liquefied and finally, viscous relaxation reduced the elliptical bays. Right after the paper was published, Dr. Malcolm University, sent a letter to the Geomorphology my paper. All this transpired and was documented when his book America Before. One of LeCompte's objections was that there In his words, &quot;Dyke (2004), and Larson and of the retreat of the Laurentide Ice Sheet resolution to make clear that not only Saginaw the time of the Younger Dryas onset.&quot; Graham Hancock was concerned that LeCompte's criticism of the Glacier Ice Impact Hypothesis evidence. I provided him with a paper published by Eschman following an earlier retreat, the Laurentide The paper by Eschman and Mickelson says that the Port Huron stade, the margins of all of readvanced, reestablishing drainage via the the low lacustrine connections between the Separate higher lakes were formed as a result The matter of the missing ice was brought Michigan State University and four co-authors et al. objecting to claims that there is evidence near Saginaw Bay at the end of the Pleistocene. The commentary questioned the methodology an impact in the Saginaw Bay area. The same issue of the journal contained a methodology for the gravity field model and hypothesis about the impact. The commentary by Schaetzl also had a refutation which said that long-established data clearly retreated from the Saginaw Bay region well before the present. Let us think about this statement. Radiocarbon dating can provide date ranges Radiocarbon dates are always given relative The convention to use 1950 as a reference dates published in journals without having journal. A radiocarbon date of 500 years before the years ago, relative to 2020 AD. Early in the history of radiocarbon dating, carbon dioxide has not been constant. For this reason, it is necessary to convert years. The CALIB software makes the conversion from by calculating the probability distribution Let us look at Schaetzl's statement again. The onset of the Younger Dryas was approximately a radiocarbon date of 11,100 years before The commentary states that the Saginaw Lowlands at this time, and that a meteorite impact would have been simply impossible based on the present. Schaetzl concludes the geological refutation in Saginaw Bay and since there was no ice, boulders that could have been ejected to form by the Glacier Ice Impact Hypothesis. It is true that Saginaw Bay was not covered but that is not the date of the onset of the The date of the onset of the Younger Dryas years before the present, which is at least commentary. A paper published in 2015 by Kennett and 25 radiocarbon dating and the statistical handling Kennett's paper provides a date of 12,835 onset of the Younger Dryas event. This is the time when the meteorite would We will now look at the glacial history of during this time. Glaciers are slowly moving masses of ice formed on low-relief areas of the landscape. Glaciers scrape the land and carry stones These photographs that I took in Alaska show Moraines are ridges and hills containing rock of a glacier during relatively long intervals forward advance. Moraines mark the borders of the ice lobes and high relief. The dates of the moraines are used to construct A 1973 publication by Huber shows the ice years before the present. The highlighted position shows the ice advance the present. Pay attention to this line because we will Do you remember the reference to Dyke mentioned This is Dyke's 2004 paper, and it has several age. The image shows Saginaw Bay covered with ice So, according to Dyke, Saginaw Bay was covered Dryas. The 2001 paper by Larson and Schaetzl is the in Graham Hancock's book that supposedly Bay at the onset of the Younger Dryas. One of the authors, Prof. Randall Schaetzl author of the commentary that objects to the The paper by Larson and Schaetzel provides times during the Ice Age. Larson and Schaetzl's Figure 6 illustrates at 15.5, 13, 11.8 and 10 thousand radiocarbon A footnote on the first page says that throughout and that ages less than 65 ka are in radiocarbon According to Larson and Schaetzl, the readvance Michigan basin and most of the Huron basin Its maximum extent is marked by the Port Huron Michigan and can be traced almost continuously This agrees with Dyke's 2004 paper and with The advance at 11.8 thousand BP, which is no ice in Saginaw Bay. By 10 thousand BP the ice had retreated to The paper by Larson and Schaetzl also has and general extent of the major proglacial ice sheet. I colorized these images for clarity. At 14 thousand years BP the Laurentide Ice At 13.6 thousand BP the ice retreated. At 13.2 thousand BP, Larson and Schaetzl illustrate This image differs substantially from the Bay covered with ice at 13.2 thousand years Just two hundred years later, at 13 thousand illustrate Lake Huron and Saginaw Bay covered This is the time of the onset of the Younger image provided by Dyke in 2004 and with the I provided to Graham Hancock for his book. Thus, the 2001 paper by Larson and Schaetzl onset of the Younger Dryas. At 11.8 thousand BP the ice receded. And by 10 thousand BP the ice had receded By 5 thousand years BP the land was clear form. A 1993 paper by Blewett, Winters and Rieck a radiocarbon age of 12,960 +- 350 yr BP from part of the Inner Port Huron moraine in Michigan's This paper and the three other sources that likely that the Laurentide Ice Sheet covered Younger Dryas. Where is the crater? Where is the crater? An extraterrestrial impact on an ice sheet the layer of ice attenuates the force of the crater. This has been demonstrated experimentally Brown University. In addition, the heat of the impact melts that scrubs the land and carries away evidence Identifying the location of an impact on ice of the ejecta produced by the impact, but a typical crater due to the subsequent flooding. Michael Davias integrated hundreds of LiDAR Basins with Google Earth. He used great circle trajectories adjusted point of the bays at Saginaw Bay. If his calculations are correct, Saginaw Bay The ice boulders ejected by the impact would Mountains to the East Coast of the United The date of the impact most likely coincides event and the megafaunal extinction in North Saginaw Bay may still contain some evidence just washed away when the glaciers melted. Scientists will eventually need to accept probably the only way to identify the location