Across the country, homelessness is becoming I wanna know how you're gonna strengthen people Are you planning to do anything to stop the welcome sign for the rest of the country? You need to disperse the problem. This is a decision between whether we keep off the streets. And in some places, it's driving a divide What does it take to be seen as a person? How's that feel, queen? Instead of a problem. What is so complicated about that? I get darker tones to put on and then I put eyes and stuff. I don't even know what to get anymore. I have a hard time picking what it is that I'm not wasting my money on anything because, you know, I'm homeless. 29 year old Arien Williams has been homeless She's part of a new wave of homelessness where It's an epidemic that can be clearly seen Sometimes I shower at the church on Gower. Most of the time it's in my tent with a lot of baby wipes and soap. When you see homeless people, your brain can't All it takes for you to be homeless is they you're homeless for the next month. Point blank. One of Arien's most surprising survival techniques This is my makeup bag. I use my makeup to cope with being out here, Well, I've had a few jobs. I had to wear makeup else was doing and if I don't, then I'll definitely When they find out when you're homeless they Whether I live inside or outside, I'm still just like the next person. For Arien, a thin layer of eyeshadow keeps her from the realities of the street. What is it like to be a woman out on the If a woman is out here by herself, she is Every homeless woman I've ever met has been What kind of unique challenges are faced by The challenge is that there simply aren't There aren't enough women-focused programs Just 17% of the shelter beds in Los Angeles of them are in mixed gender spaces. The services that do exist are largely concentrated Skid Row has become a shorthand for the area the margins. The most infamous case can be found in L.A. the majority of its homeless shelters, services, Today there are more than 2,000 people living half a square mile. It's become the site for some of the most it's also known as a dangerous place, especially Despite this reputation, Skid Row is also the refuses to turn away women. Union Rescue Mission. We refuse to meet ladies out on the street. To meet the overwhelming demand, URM blows they can. On any given night, three to four hundred women But it's just a drop in the bucket. What happens if this continues and there isn't I already think we're past the tipping point. The other day I got a call. There was a 26-year-old being beaten and raped. It is a FEMA-like, Red Cross-like disaster. And it's not just on Skid Row, it's everywhere In the midst of this disaster, one woman is One of each, make sure- One of each. Shirley Raines single-handedly started Beauty A volunteer-run project that provides home-cooked I don't think I can end homelessness. I think We're trying to put a band-aid on a gunshot She comes to Skid Row every Saturday along The Fighters For The World is a biker club Skid Row is like, alright, we don't care what Keep everybody in one area, as long as it So we decided to come down and lend our aid Yeah, I don't think I've seen a single police Right, no we haven't either. It seems like you guys are sort of helping Whatever the powers that be, however they're I don't think it trickles down here. It's very important to put something on and It's gonna get warm in a second LaFonda, okay? There is nail polish too! This could be any of us out here. I think that's There are real-life stories down here. There's real-life trauma down here. This could be you. I did the whole stay-at-home-mom thing. I never imagined that this would happen to me, Michelle Fennell is a 37-year-old mother of This is them, that's the family photo. Whose world was turned upside down when she I was in a really bad domestic violence situation. My abuser was trying to kill me. I had to leave my apartment. I became homeless. There was really no resources My children went to go stay with different After three years on the streets, Michelle to her was a single room occupancy unit. It means that she still has to be apart from What is it like not having your children living It's so hard. I have to be strong for my children, were as a family. I'm gonna stay here for a while till I'm able Just the money to live in a regular apartment Michelle's case is an increasingly common makes it easy to get knocked off your feet, We have a responsibility as a community to We're not accepting people who've experienced But not everyone feels the same way. Hundreds of people, many who live and work Homeless housing has proven to be a hot-button Not-in-my-backyardism is the biggest barrier to As the homelessness crisis grows, so does the Some residents, fearing for their personal homeless services and shelters in their neighborhoods. Venice is the site of some of the most vocal What has become one of the most expensive fears it's being overrun by outsiders. Good evening everybody. We're here in Venice at a neighborhood council plan for the homeless and as you can see it's We could walk away from homelessness. That This is a decision between whether we keep off the streets. I think that's an easy decision. Thank you. I have heard the real and genuine fear of who are afraid of being beaten or being raped. If we do not do this in Venice, the one thing continue and the problem will continue to We are going to go to questions from the audience. My name is Wendy Lockett, I'm from Venice What do you intend to do to ensure that we and we're just one big homeless community? We could take that same amount of money and get these people the homes they so desperately What is so complicated about that? I am in favor of homeless housing, but I am What you're doing I believe is encouraging gonna strengthen people to get out of homelessness? You need to disperse the problem. That's what You disperse it. That's... you're not thinking in those terms, Cause I'll tell you why. Cause it's no longer just in one place or Regardless of the NIMBY movement's intentions, hijacking the conversation of how to solve have to deal with it. I wanted to know what the mayor had to say. Do residents, even wealthy ones, have a right It's literally the most complicated issue deal with in public policy, because it has And each person is different. I think all of It's about getting to know one person on the Figuring out what her story is and figuring have to crack open to make sure she can get So the color she talked about. How's that feel, queen? What would you say to someone who argues that with the homeless? What I want to do is just restore dignity. Just make them feel important, and make them Now we are cooking with fire. All the women that I take care of right now, I didn't really get to know them that well. Until I started giving makeup and doing hair, they're in the chair. I'm writing 'I'm still human' after being treated You know? I feel like the world needs a reminder. You stay in the mission over there baby? Three weeks? How is it in there? I would say that we have to understand these Something happened. Somewhere along the line, they were broken. Somewhere along the line, they were damaged. Whatever broke them and put them on the street, It's been about three years. We are fleeing from my abuser and me actually Living in my own place, I'm able to figure Because if I didn't have this apartment, I about a career. You're not wasting any time. I can't afford to. I have my children, my babies, they keep me motivated. It's already lifting. How did it feel when you first sat down, and Alicia, it looks so good! What do you think everyone in the mission I think it's pretty awesome. How you look and, you know your appearance, Cool. What she does here is powerful. Everybody needs to look pretty. Right? Alicia transformed before my eyes. And it wasn't just the shampoo and color. Shirley's kind words and compassion made Alicia They deserve kindness, they deserve food, You're not your situation on the street. You're not the tent that you sleep in. Open your eyes. And your name is gonna be on the back. Ooh! Look how cute, it's cute! Oh, don't cry, love. Don't cry love! It's clear that homelessness is an incredibly Angeles and all across the country will take But just as vital is recognizing that behind It's something that we can all do that costs Thanks for watching Refinery29. For more videos And to subscribe click here.