Health is something you have to do from within. This (Referring to Oneself) is designed for health. Right now in United States. Thirty percent of the healthcare bills We need to bring a culture of health; how we eat, So especially those of you first and foremost thing is you must exude health. Sadhguru chants Kalo Na Janati Thawa Jananam... Kalo Na Janati Thawa Samarpanam.. Dhrishtyomaya Thawa Mahakalaha.. Yogeshwara Kaala Kaala.. Yogeshwara Kaala Kaala.. Shiv.. Sadhguru: Namaskaram. Hey, I said Namaskaram! Participants: Namaskaram (Sadhguru laughs)! Sadhguru: Good morning to everyone (Laughs)! Interviewer (Chetna): Namaskaram Sadhguru! Sadhguru: Mhmm (Indicating agreement) Interviewer (Chetna): Before we begin, I'd like thank Sounds of Isha for their wonderful reverberating Once again... Sadhguru: I don't think they enjoyed the music! Interviewer (Chetna): Oh, we all did (Applause)! Yes! Sadhguru: But nobody was on their feet. Interviewer (Chetna): Namaskaram once again, On behalf of Prathima Institute of Medical Sciences, It's indeed a privilege and a blessing Sadhguru: Mhmm (Indicating agreement) Interviewer (Chetna): Sir, your presence and all throughout our college and we've had questions Sadhguru: Mhmm (Indicating agreement) Interviewer (Chetna): Yes, Sir. So before we begin with our questioning, I'd I'm Chetna from third-year M.B.B.S. Interviewer (Ishwar): I'm Ishwar from third-year M.B.B.S. Interviewer (Abhilasha): And I'm Abhilasha Interviewer (Chetna): Namaskaram Sa... Sadhguru: Hey, you got fans out there, Hmm (Laughter)! Interviewer (Chetna): Sadhguru, Sadhguru: Please! Interviewer (Chetna): Sadhguru, I'd like to draw your attention to a very where a group of doctors were brutally beaten up by raged family members of a patient Sadhguru, how do you think we as medical students are supposed to deal with this violence Sadhguru: Well, in Bengal everybody gets beaten up (Laughter); not just the doctors (Laughs). Every day you're hearing it all over the place just about everybody gets beaten because unfortunately, we've created a culture of violence. Everything is settled this way. There're many reasons, these are political stuff. But this is very important for all of us When I say a culture of peace, every transaction... every transaction that human beings have - Hmm? Yes or no? In every transaction, whether it's within the family, in the community, in the larger situations in the country or among nations; whatever you do, always someone loses, How to go through these transactions This has to come within every one of us that, "When I lose, I don't want to beat you. This doesn't mean, "I will simply lose." No. There are other ways to fight. There are other ways to fight than So this culture of peace will not come just like that. This culture of peace needs to be... It's not like one day slogan - That's not going to work; it's a generational work. It's about how we behave on the street, On all levels, we create a culture of peace. As a part of this... Because this is the hundred-and-fiftieth I am also a part of the twenty-member committee As a part of this we're doing various other things So, we're doing major events The idea of bringing the celebrities in is People should understand there is a Mahatma is a representative of this, that he Not only in India. Using his inspiration Martin Luther King in United States, very violent problems but This is important if all of us want to exist. Why I'm saying this is, there was a time when The stick became a sword; the sword become an arrow; an arrow become a gun; a gun has become a bomb; a bomb has become a super - super kind of bomb. Once these kind of destructive capabilities we have, it's extremely important that we have Because it's not just going to be a broken bone. If you took a stick, it would be just a broken bone; But, if you took a nuclear bomb - So this has become extremely important now that there is a culture of peace within me and around me. This is not going to come with slogans; This is a generational work that all of us No matter what is the loss that we go through, See, whenever something happens to us that This is very important that you learn to You don't try to fix injustice right So, you... Where the traffic is going in the country... The way it is going in our cities if you don't Hello? Yes or no? That's the way it's going on. But if as much as your car touches somebody right there, they get down Because they're disappointed nobody got How did this happen? So to bring a culture of peace is not one day's work. First of all, we should know how to be peaceful. Because your medical students and doctors, you know, that human experience has a chemical basis to it. Hmm? So, what you call as peace, is a certain kind of chemistry; what you call as joy, is another kind of chemistry; what you call as ecstasy, is another kind of chemistry; agony, is one kind of chemistry; misery, another kind of chemistry; stress, tension, whatever you go through are different Now, this (Referring to Oneself) ... is the most sophisticated and complex Hmm? Do you agree with me? Sadhguru: Only problem is you're a lousy manager. Hello? You're a lousy manager, it just - The bomb is not outside, the bomb is inside. Outside bomb is only a further facilitation You're watching movies where Tch, your heroes are always bashing, Hello (Laughs)? So if you like that and if you think that's What I hit with my hand when I think I've lost Hello? If all I have is my hands, I will use it; Every two months at least you're Somebody walks into a school Hello? You're hearing this, isn't it, repeatedly? Universities, schools - because People think it's an American phenomena. No, no, no. In India, if people had access to guns they Yes or no? Participants: Yes Sadhguru: There is no gun, or some people are more equipped, So please understand this - the violence is What have we done about that? This is what Inner Engineering means that Nobody can take you where they want. If somebody else can decide what should happen Hello? Hello? Participants: Yes Sadhguru: You don't like it? See, if I decide how you should dress, you'll say "this is slavery," isn't it? But if I decide right now whether you can within yourself - if I'm going to decide this, Worst kind of slavery, isn't it? Participants: Yes Sadhguru: That, what happens within you, You're allowing this to happen to you that If you don't take charge of this (Referring when you live a life of a slave, you will when you feel it's unjust, violence is a This happened. Can I tell you a little story? Participants: Yes! Sadhguru: No? Participants: Yes! Sadhguru: Okay, because some of you are shaking your head like this (Gestures), maybe it's a different society (Laughter). I'm seeking your permission because for most people the moment you say "once upon a time" especially in the last rows, the lighting is correct. A yogi was walking by... What's this village? What's the local village? Sadhguru: Hmm? Sadhguru: Choppadandi? Sadhguru: Hmm? Sadhguru: Nagaluru? Oh, naguthara antharu (Laughter)? Nagaluru! A yogi was passing by in your Nagaluru, tch. A few people gathered and abused him He listened to all the abuse very attentively, Then he said, "I have an event in Prathima college. If you have something more to say These are the kind of people, If you say one thing, they will beat you. But he said... he heard all the worst "In the evening I'll come back if you're ready for more." Now, what do you do with this man? Because this man is like this, because he's decided how to be in his life. He's decided he lives peacefully and joyfully. You pull him whichever way you want, he won't come your way; he'll go only Hmm? Participants: Yes Sadhguru: Ahh, this you must look at yourself and see. One word - tch, just one word, they can drag you. This freedom every human being, that nobody can decide how you are within yourself Otherwise, you will live a life of a slave. When you live like a slave, at some point So it doesn't just happen to the doctors. It's happening to all kinds of people everyday, isn't it? Interviewer (Abhilasha): Sadhguru, the "heart-beat bill" that is recently been declared in the US; it declares that any woman who aborts anything with a Sadhguru: I didn't understand that, please. Little... Interviewer (Abhilasha): The heart-beat law... Sadhguru: I don't think her microphone is... yeah. Interviewer (Abhilasha): No, it's fine. The heart-beat law states that any woman she immediately is declared a criminal and And obviously, there are certain cases pregnancy in teens and also And they are still forced to have these children. So do you think it is justified that a law can Sadhguru: See, I'm not for these kind of laws, all right? But at the same time, I want you to In this country, there have been many people I'm particularly saying daughters because that Because the father believes "After all, you're my child. It's happened or no? Sadhguru: Not one or two - it's happened in quite substantial number that you cannot ignore the number. That kind of number, it's happened. So where does this right come? Because it is "Because of me you're born, so you must do what I want you to do. So I'll take your life." So similarly, "It's my womb, At the same time, a woman has a freedom to do what she wants but what she wants does not mean you There was a time when women had no Today, there's substantial means, isn't it? So I would say within five, six or ten weeks you must terminate if you don't wish. I've seen cases; I'm saying this particularly They have boyfriends and they got pregnant. Now, it is five-month pregnancy... And the boyfriend left her, Now she wants to abort the child. This is not okay. I think some kind of number of weeks we can fix. In my judgment, I think before but sometimes a woman may not Let us allow ten weeks, twelve weeks, you can't go to twenty-five weeks, thirty weeks This is not nice because it's alive - it's a living life! You must understand of all the creatures on this planet, a fetus as a life is the most helpless life. Yes? Participants: Yes Sadhguru: Even a little child - a two-year-old child, if you try to do harm to him he will bite, A fetus is totally in your mercy. Because of your convenience At the same time does somebody else decide this? No. A woman should decide this - But at the same time, some kind of norm has to be there that within this much time it must happen. After the child is grown, there is substantial studies saying the child has even emotion towards the mother. You don't kill a life which has emotion, isn't it? So I think both the sides take Let's take a more humane and practical position. Why are you for or against something? How do we handle this life? It has been happening. Yesterday or day before the male-female proportion in the country But at the same time, why was it down? Female children who are born after... because They're born and they're girls; simple thing they just take some paddy granules It goes, gets stuck somewhere and the child So now, if I can terminate a child at five, six months, I'm saying the logic will extend itself; Because where will it... what is the consequence to what extremes will people take it? This must be taken into account because how many thousands must have been killed? Only few are caught. Hello? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: Only a few are caught. Because a five-day-old child, if it dies, people will... Infant mortality is there. How much of this infant mortality is So we must be careful what we argue for. A more humane way of handling life Interviewer (Ishwar): Namaskaram Sadhguru. Fasting on auspicious days has existed But many Indians believe that until, the work on autophagy induced Even I started doing intermittent fasting So why are such beneficial ancient practices and then immediately implemented Sadhguru: That's because you don't have I've been talking about this for forty years, And I've seen hundreds and thousands of people simply because they're not fueling up all the time In the yoga center, everybody eats at ten o'clock Our lives are very physically active. It's a large place, everybody either walks or cycles. Even if you have to go to the dining hall, workplace, it's half a kilometer, one kilometer. So everybody is very hungry. By the time it's 3:30 - But we learn to live with that because hunger... Hunger means your energy levels start dropping. In the yogic sciences... today modern science But what we know by our experience, Because research (Laughs) is all about Your body and your brain works at its best So we always make sure we eat in such a way, our stomach must be always empty within So we go to bed hungry always. People On an average.. For twenty-five years on an average, These days, I'm getting little lazy and sleeping anywhere in spite of the level of travel that I have. When I say level of travel; if I say my level of travel in the Yes! Should I tell you? No. Not necessary (Laughter). Because in the next ten days, I'm in five different countries doing I don't know So you're able to keep this (Referring to Oneself) It's very, very important. Everybody eats two meals; I generally only one meal, 4:30 - five in the evening because I don't like to sit in front of the plate and worry about how much to eat. I like to eat well. So 4:30 - five in the evening if I eat meal, Is this enough? It's...Am I looking okay? Hello? Participants: Yes! Sadhguru: I'm not looking like your patient, isn't it? I'm not going to come to you (Laughter) Because any correction and purification your stomach needs to be empty - Otherwise, the purification on the You pile up things and then you have all kinds of problems. The first thing is inertia in the body. Inertia means - there are many levels of inertia. If you don't notice all that, All of you - you have come here to live or... Hello? Participants: To live. Yes. Sadhguru: To live, right? Not here (Gestures), here (Gestures). I'm saying in to You want to live or... The intention of life is to live, isn't it? But because you talked about American doctors, All American doctors say minimum So that means one-third of your life you must sleep. Another two, three hours... four hours, goes in So literally, fifty percent of your life is just maintenance. Suppose you have a vehicle - you have a motorcycle all right to keep it; if it goes to service fifteen days in a month, Most people have made their systems into a nuisance, because their own body is a big impediment in their life. Anything they want to do, their body will not allow One important aspect is people are eating Simply because they've been told you must eat more, otherwise you will become weak, this, that. No, it is the way you keep your body. A fuel today... Everybody's trying to work towards This means what - if the machine runs smoothly, So if you sit here and you are very much at ease; If you're (Gestures - hyperactive) like this all the time; then it'll consume more fuel, it will want you to eat. Compulsiveness will come about this. So this new name "intermittent eating" (Laughs)... You should see in United States Our programs will run ten hours, twelve hours. So... But they will come with some They say, "I have sugar intolerance, I have to eat." I tell them, "You just be here, you're not going to die. I'll ensure because I don't want anybody I'll make sure." First day, "No, no, no. I have to eat," By third day they gave up all that. Twelve hours See, health is not something you can do from outside. Health is something you have to do from within. From outside when something goes wrong, But all the time something is wrong with you, Yes? All the time something is wrong with you - why? That's not how this (Referring to Oneself) is designed. This (Referring to Oneself) is designed for health. Every cell in your body is designed They're all working hard to create health, So, minimum eight-hours gap is Between one meal and the next meal If you do this, you will see half your problems minimum fifty percent will go away in six weeks' time. If you do certain other things which may right now seem little extreme to you; if you have a little yogic practice, something meditative within you, then you will see Ten percent if it still persists, we can treat it. Now it's become like this. The health care systems; especially people are eating and drinking all kinds of rubbish, This is not how it works (Laughs). Interviewer (Abhilasha): Sadhguru, in the medical wards, when we come across our first patient death, Sadhguru: Oh, the very first one you've killed (Laughter)? Interviewer (Abhilasha): Our first death of a patient, we are very moved but gradually as we come across, we become very nonchalant and unperturbed. Do you think this desensitization towards death in the Sadhguru: If you're nonchalant, definitely. But being a doctor, every dead body you see that's going to be a very big problem. Because when you're emotionally pitched up, Everybody knows this, isn't it? Well, if somebody is dying of old age, But a whole lot of people might have come to you something - fit enough to live but you So if you are... your heart is pumping hard then you will definitely do something to kill him (Laughs). It's very important that you learn to treat it This doesn't mean you're nonchalant. Nonchalant is not the word; unperturbed, The way you're addressing the question, The way you're addressing the question is, Doctor should see minimum That's a good thing (Laughs/Applause). And anyway, this whole thing about people Mortality is a certain thing, right? All of us are going to die. So people need not go to hospital to die. People should learn to die gracefully. All other creatures die like this - and they will move to one place, sit quietly; Right now in United States, the statistics says... Thirty percent of the healthcare bills are Ten percent of the health care bill Thirty percent of US healthcare bill means That is half of India's economy. That much is being spent in the last one year, not able to move, not able to do anything; once in And it's torture for that person - absolute torture. Doctors may think they're treating - they are, of course that's their intention; but patients experiences torture. Yes or no? Participants: Yes Sadhguru: We're willing to go through some torture But there is no point going through torture, if hospital bed is the only place I can be and Better go three months early. Hello? Now this may sound like "Oh, I'm saying let them die." That's not the point. That is not the point. The point is just this - both for the living and the dying, Hello? It's not only for the dying; for the living also and we're just torturing that man endlessly. And he doesn't know whether he can live or not. So these are dangerous things to talk about "Okay, enemy is going to die. Don't treat him." Within the medical system, To rescue a life, how far do you go? Right now, we've taken this thing it doesn't matter he's just collapsing It is also very important he dies gracefully, isn't it? Hello? Is it not important? Participants: Yes Sadhguru: But nobody can die gracefully when I'm not trying to comment on this but what Right from ancient times in this country, people came, chanted something - put him not in the house, you know, fresh air and everything; people, everybody sit there, wait, chant something. If you take him to the hospital, he may last So there must be concern for that person, These are very hard decisions to make, All kinds of criminal stuff may happen But as human beings our humanity should decide this; not our principles, not our laws, not something else. Our basic humanity must decide these things. But the way it is going right now in the Western world and slowly that is very much happening here, this needs to be looked at. Because I don't know.. At least in United States, I think eighty percent of the people die under medical care - at least. So they are not dying well; they're just dying with lots of pain, lots of injections, lot of this thing, do this, do that. No. There is a point beyond which... First of all, this is not built into people's lives. In this culture, yogis especially, when they feel they've done their work, they just sat in one place and they left. If that much wisdom is not there, at least This is also for the... that person I'm saying, if you leave it to your relative, he cannot say, "I won't get you treated." If you leave it to your doctor, he cannot say, Somebody else cannot decide this. But sometimes I may not be This is a complex affair but we need to re-visit this Without creating opportunity for people to misuse this, it is definitely something that we need I'm not talking about euthanasia or something When thirty percent of the health care bill where they're immobile in the bed, It's not just about money. It's about the nation. One trillion dollar health care bill That is just for three hundred million people. So these things need revisiting but the "for" and "against" people will start screaming. In the news channels they're screaming; activists are screaming; social media is screaming. It's become like this because everybody are If you quieten these screaming people, I'm sure some kind of a board, which comes, examines... But a group of people who take a call whether it's worth pushing this man endlessly or letting him go. A group - a responsible group can take this call. Interviewer (Chetna): Sadhguru, ideally there should be one doctor for every 1000 people. But in India, it's about half. That is about every 2000 people have one doctor. Despite this disparity, most of us dream of going Sadhguru, what are the changes we should bring to control this brain-drain Sadhguru: I would treat these two things - the Every 2000 people need one doctor, I don't like that. You're saying there's not enough. Every 1000 you need one is it? Sadhguru: Oh, I don't like that at all (Few laugh)! I would like every five or 10,000 people has one doctor. Recently because we are working to see how to bring preventive care into hospitals - large hospitals; so we are working with a large group, the Apollo group. The chairperson came to meet me and he was telling me situations how young doctors, particularly cardiologists He was talking about an incident where a On the way there was a... their own cardiac But he did not realize that he needs it because He went home, parked his car, got down, took three By the time his wife came and opened the door, he died. When this came up, I just started thinking, "Oh, do we have such a possibility because we have and every day, at least 10 to 12,000 Then I looked back and saw, we've not had a single heart attack in the last Then I said, except for a few old people beyond a certain especially they did not die of cardiac stuff. So I don't like for every thousand people - one doctor; maybe it'll give you a job, but it is not necessary. We need to bring a culture of health; how we eat, If you bring this into the social life, See, I want you to understand. I'm not saying this with any prejudice against you; Among many things that you do; professions, When people are unhealthy or But at the same time, for any given society Because people are getting damaged So do you need better cars on the road? Something we must decide, isn't it (Applause)? We need to cultivate a better sense of health. Health, everybody must understand is their basic responsibility. It is not medical industry's responsibility. It is... every individual should understand, This must be built from early childhood. I'll tell you, if everybody invests just thirty minutes Simple process if they do, The frequency of going to the doctor will So every 1000 people need one doctor - To keep him busy they must be falling sick, isn't it? Because once he sits there, you have to keep him busy. It's an investment of a person in the nation. So, if we work for healthy societies, Definitely we need it; no human being will It'll always happen. But at the same time, how sick do you get? This is not to say boastful things. But in these thirty-seven years that I've been active; three-hundred-and-sixty five days I have a schedule, normally eighteen-twenty hours a day, I have not cancelled one event (Applause) This doesn't mean I didn't catch a flu; it doesn't mean I didn't get some fever; All this happened but they never stopped my schedules. They don't even today. Because there is a way a human being can If we don't bring this into the society then we've just lowered the human potential, especially in our country. Because I want you to understand in this country, People and... Population is all you have. For 1.4 billion people, you don't have a pieceof land for everybody. You don't have any mountains; you don't have you don't even have a piece of sky for 1.4 billion people! Yes - but we have people. If we upgrade these people to a higher level but if you leave them just like that unfocused, Yes or no? All we have is people. So upgrading the people involves that people are healthy. Today there are issues of malnourishment. There are issues of people by choice eating bad food. Above all, one of the biggest problems There is no culture of fitness. You know, every year we trek in Kailash. Thirty-five to forty Indian tourists die every year We are literally seventeen or eighteen percent From Isha, that many people go there Because we make sure people Certain practices are taken care of, Today because of constant year-after-year the Chinese government put a new rule last year saying that, Indians over seventy years But if you are an American you can go; if you're an Australian you can go; Only Indians over seventy cannot go It's a statement on us, how we are. So especially those of you first and foremost thing is you must exude health. Hmm? If a patient sees you, you must look really You are only (Gestures) (Laughter). She was telling me... She said, "No, no, we are medical students. If somebody comes and tells you a patient That they are on the way out. If you're serious, what does it mean (Laughter)? Same thing! Hello? (Applause) There is substantial medical only when you're in a pleasant state of experience And for the sake of people who become your patients, so that they don't turn into your victims, it's very important that your body Hello? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: It must. It must work at its best. For this it's very important, if you sit here This much you must do for yourself If I want to touch you, my hands must be clean, isn't it? Hmm? It's a simple humanity. Before I touch somebody else, So before you talk about other people's health, You must do this to yourself. It's very, very important. It will make a world of difference for the Interviewer (Ishwar): Sadhguru, we have heard many stories of people and they forego basic human necessities like thirst But science says that a person can die So can you please explain us how such a state Sadhguru: For this you'll have to bend your mind a little bit because it's not in your textbook like this (Laughs). Just day before yesterday, somebody There is something called as Dhyanalinga. But this happened to a foreign national so So this person went and sat in Dhyanalinga Because everybody gets only a fifteen-minute She sat there at seven o'clock in the morning. How many hours is that? Three plus eight hours... She just sat there unmoving. She thought she's going to sit for a 15 minute slot. So they sent a message to me, "Sadhguru... I said, "Leave her alone. It's okay." Like this, it happens. Once it happened. I sat down, way back. I thought... I thought I'm going to... you know, When I opened my eyes, there huge crowd They're all trying to pull my legs. You know, And the moment I opened my eyes somebody wants to know about his business; somebody wants to know when his daughters will get married (Laughter); Then I said, "Where did all you idiots come from" (Laughter)? They said, "You've been sitting here So, what happens in the system? See right now, I'm speaking. If you check my pulse, it's somewhere around If I simply sit quietly, it will drop below forty. If I simply sit down and I'm doing something if I simply sit, it'll drop below forty. Now this This (Referring to Oneself) will not build So, the amount of energy it consumes is very low. Twenty percent of the energy in the body though it is hardly a pound-and-a-half at the most. So, this much (Gestures) body is consuming this much (Gestures) body is If you compare this (Gestures) and this (Gestures) So, you must understand if you keep your mind in a certain way Because you're not unnecessarily consuming This is true with every system. Whether it's a car; whether it's a machine; how friction-free it is running, Anything that's happening with big friction So physiologically, psychologically, energy-wise, metabolism will drop and Because when you want to pitch it up, When you want to lower it, it's there. Right now the range that most people are carrying is very, very small. If you push them into activity, If they have nothing to do, they will freak. So in this condition, it will not go down. Now everything that you consume is higher We can... Within three days we can teach you which will bring down your metabolism This is the highest drop that you can have If metabolism drops beyond that, If you sit here, you have no sense of body. See, if you sit down here, even if you don't everything is keeping time, isn't it? Hello? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: (Laughs) You don't need a watch. If you Body knows. So someone is sitting for hours Why there is no sense of body is not only it is also the intensity of your energy Another dimension of energy is fully intense. Once it pervades the entire body, you have no sense of body. If I go into a program - ten hours, I'm the only one continuously drinking water but I'm the only one who will not take a break. Everybody every two hours they take a break and come back. Simply because... how identified you are with your physiological process But there is also sadhana. There is also So everybody may not be willing but everybody must do some sadhana...something. So that what you wish to do, you can do effectively. Whatever it is in your life you wish to do, What the hell you do is not my concern. But whatever the hell you're doing, Hello? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: You must do it well. That's very important for a human being So for this, it's very, very important that your own body and your own mind is not an impediment. Your own body and your own mind doesn't trip you all the time. They must be platforms on which you stand. Right now people have sunk into it. Suppose it lets you sink into it, It's holding us up, so it's a nice. Your body, If that happens, your dependence And also, water is not always Body consumes water in so many ways. If you activate the system in a certain way, it consumes energy. See, right now you eating food, drinking water, But science has clearly proved to you So if you're able to take in energy as it is, The word "Yoga" means just this. The word Yoga means, you are beginning to Right now, this is me, that's you - Because you think this body is me; that body is you. This is a clear boundary that my body and My mind and your mind also largely has a boundary, But there is no such thing as my life and your life. Have you ever blown soap bubbles or you were a serious boy even when you were in school? No (Laughter)? Did you blow soap bubbles? Sadhguru: Let's say we sit here and blow soap bubbles. You got this (Gestures) big bubble; Now I said, "This (Gestures) is my bubble.That (Gestures) Pupp, it went. Now I don't say this (Gestures) is my air; Life is just like this. This is a living cosmos. How much you capture will determine the significance I want you to understand this clearly (Laughs). You may have a big brain, you may have a huge intellect, you have a lot of knowledge but Only if you capture a lot of life! If you have a big body, other people but within you, that will not be the experience. If you have a big brain, people think, "Oh, he's very smart" but within you, you will not have a significant life. Only if you capture a huge amount of life simply if you sit here also it's too fantastic. When it's like that, whether you open your eyes, close your eyes, it doesn't really make a difference to you. Only then you will live in the world Because what you do and do not do; does not determine the quality of your life. That is when we can really trust you, isn't it? Otherwise we don't know why you're doing the surgery (Laughter). I mean, these question marks have come, isn't it? Can I tell a joke? Participants: Yes. A man went for a surgery. He needed a surgery, Doctor said... this is in United States. So doctor said, "It will cost you 36,000 dollars." Then he said, "Doctor, I cannot pay that. Then doctor said, "Don't worry.You pay 3000 per month." The patient said, "But that looks like a car payment, The doctors smiled and said, "Yes, I am buying a car" (Laughter/Applause). Interviewer (Chetna): Sadhguru, the girls are almost twice or thrice as compared Sadhguru: Really?... I didn't notice that (Laughter)! Oh, is it so? I didn't notice that (Laughs). Yes, they are more than twice (Laughs). Interviewer (Chetna): But we see a when it goes to post graduationor the super-specialties. Sadhguru, my question to you is, where is a woman's life or career compromised at some stage? Sadhguru: Well, nature has invested a higher level of responsibility in a woman's body than in a man's body. Well, more men are going to super-speciality but they were all delivered by women (Applause), all of them. So, I understand in professional career you may look at it Only because our mothers took time-off we are sitting here and talking all this, isn't it? Maybe my mother did not pursue her career. Has she become anything less, I'm asking? Has she? Well, I'm sitting here for her. Hello (Applause)? So that's not the way to look at life but if it is some kind of a prejudice But I don't think so. Still, maybe for a lot of these girls many of their parents think if she becomes a doctor, They are not thinking that she should They are only thinking if she is M.B.B.S (Applause)... So, this is a generational thing; probably in If you try to forcefully push it, it won't work. If you wait, individual people But as a social phenomena, I don't think you can push it. But if you wait for another fifteen-twenty years, But women by themselves may choose not Because a woman is naturally more life-oriented. When a man start doing something, A woman knows that "I'm a life. I must live." So because of this she may take a wise Man's problem is, he just wants to be one step ahead of somebody, even if his life is ruined (Laughter/Applause). Generally for a woman, her experience of life So she's making a wiser choice. Interviewer (Abhilasha): Sadhguru, our Hippocratic and our responsibility being to alleviate But in certain cases, like in end-stage of we feel like there is no cure and more importantly, the patient is suffering. He's suffering is more unbearable. So the question here is that do you think for patients like these despite Sadhguru: I think we already But Hippocrates oath, is not about Hippocrates oath is about treating another These days in the West, doctors refer to their patients It is another human being who's in some way So, definitely making him well is your basic humanity. So they're trying to build an ethic to ensure that you don't lose your fundamental Rest of it, there is a science to it, it has to go by that. And talking about cancer - If you look at it more carefully; far more intuitively, These solutions are not found simply because When I say on the surface... because the entire we are looking at the symptoms and trying to treat it. Now slowly science is going towards genetics They're trying to look at the source of it. Is it true, you were not born like this (Gestures)? You were born like this (Gestures), How did you become like this? If you... Because it's mango season, You eat a mango, mango goes inside and slowly Mango is not a man or a woman, isn't it? But you eat this, it goes inside and So there is an intelligence within this There is an intelligence intrinsic to this which is capable of transforming Suppose I took a mango in my hand and made a human being out of it, what will... who will you think I am? Hello? God, isn't it? So whatever you call as "God" is essentially Isn't all of you capable of doing this - you take a mango in your stomach and make it into human being. Are you not doing it? Hello? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: Or take just about anything So the source of creation is throbbing within you. If you had access, one who built the whole machine, If you buy a car, suppose there is some problem, would you prefer to go to the manufacturer or the local thinker? Hmm? Where do you want to go? Really? You do go to the manufacturer's representative They're all vanished largely, isn't it? People who go to the local tinker, you will on the road, garr,garr, garr, garr, garr, like this Those who are going to the showroom for their service and everything, they are the ones who're zipping around, isn't it so? So, the manufacturer is sitting here Well, if some damage happens from outside,then you go to the Tinker; that is, if you get an infection from outside. You must go to the doctor, there is no otherway. Rest whatever happens from within... If, as a society, as a population, as a generation of people, if we are willing to spend enough time on this, if we are willing to look at it depending upon how much value you set upon your life, If you have valued your life enormously, you find access to that which is a source. So it will naturally do its things. You got a infection, you go to the doctor; Most people are sick by choice. This may sound Because right from early childhood they've been taught, if they're sick... if they get sick, Yes. Even when you're a child, don't you remember? If you're jumping with joy and screaming, You just have sit and cry woo, woo, suddenly they'll do moo, moo, moo, moo, So even now, most people are doing this. Most people are doing this, when they want After some time, initially what starts as a play, The play goes on without your help. Genuinely people become sick. Interviewer (Chetna): Thank you Sadhguru We'd love to continue but we have lot of Couple of them here waiting to be answered. So coming to the first question... Interviewer (Ishwar): This question is from Roccio. "I am a doctor and I notice these days kids are being bombarded with antibiotics, steroids and immunity boosters. Is it possible to keep kids healthy Sadhguru: Definitely possible. One important thing is, if we want to about India alone, one problem with India is there is not enough for people to take their children to natural spaces. They're all growing up in bird's nest. I'm calling an apartment a bird's nest. Because in that limited space without touching the soil, without touching natural air and without being exposed leaving the many other things, the fundamental thing is the five elements These five things are the We have in the basic practice of yoga, that is, you cleanse these five elements within you. If these five elements are functioning well, So, the fundamentals of yoga comes If you attain to what is called as bhuta siddhi; that suddenly you live in a heightened level of existence. So, can everybody do this? Yes, with simple awareness, they can do it. They didn't keep water for you. Simple thing - water is kept in a copper vessel; just something as small as that can make a big difference. And how you treat the water. Today, there is enough science to tell you What kind of memory you create? The same food will do one thing in one person and depending upon how you receive it. So culturally we have these things; Bow down to the food - not to some god; to the food. Because it's your life, isn't it? Hello? What's sitting in your plate, is not something else. Right now what you're breathing is your life or no? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: Did you ever... no? There (Gestures) (Laughter), The soil that you walk upon, the water that you drink, the air that you breathe, the food that you eat; So in this culture, we always approached them When I say in a wanton way, some time ago, what to say... an ups... upscale area where all the top financial offices and all those kind of things are there. It's around 12:30 in the afternoon, I'm driving. And by looking at the men and women who are they're just professionals working in financial companies and management companies and these kind of people. They're all standing outside and the food... food is being sold on certain...what to say... not a proper So everybody's standing. And of course, you know, that burger which Because it's this... this (Gestures) thick. Not... I don't have a mouth like that. How do you eat something which is this thick They're all standing and hacking at their food If my mother or my grandmother she would say, "They are eating like dogs" (Laughter). Yes. But this is our modern life - You won't believe this. We used to do programs; Otherwise earlier, we used to do residential Everywhere when I first went I see, for choking... When you're having...In the dining halls Emergency choking, this thing. How many cases do you get in India Not at all! Isn't it? I have not seen a single person in my life I didn't understand why will choke but every year Why? Why? Do they have a smaller gullet or something? Then I saw the problem is you are eating We were always taught, when we are eating you Hello? Participants: Yes Sadhguru: Focus on what you eating, it's your life. Mouthful you're talking and you're Generally in this tradition, it's considered you choked on your own food. So, like this in the name of modernity, we don't treat the food that we eat properly; it's all the way... also the way you receive it. Very important! So, your devotion is for a god that you have not seen. But if I don't give you food for five days; Food only! So water that you drink, food that you eat, if you develop a certain sense of emotion towards it I know immediately, once this thing goes out, there will be activists who are in this country But for those idiots - even the western "the human consciousness has a huge impact on the food and water that we consume There is substantial evidence for that. As you said, even though we have the wrong skin, tch. Interviewer (Ishwar): There is an add-on The antibiotic resistance is increasing day-by-day... So how do we create a perfect amalgamation Sadhguru: Ayurveda and Siddha and naturopathy very big. In India of course, it's dying because Without their approval we cannot take it. But we must understand the difference between These... Right now, an Ayurvedic doctor is going to another Medical College just like you go So what he's learning is a downgraded medicine... An Ayurvedic doctor or one who wants to practice Ayurveda, should not go to a four-year course. You have to invest your life in it; Traditionally, from childhood they learn to feel the herbs; they learn to feel the people; the pulse and this and that. This is a developing a certain intuition, where we don't go by the symptoms We don't see your temperature and say this is what it is. We don't look at those symptoms. We learn to look much deeper into the system to identify what exactly is right and wrong with your system. This will take a different level of involvement. We're looking at things... If I do this much I must get that... this job With this, these systems may not function very well. You must have heard this, the same medicine the same medicine - in one person's hands, it works very well; in another person's hands, it doesn't work well. Because the person who gives it is Because it's not working just by its The entire allopathic system is working Anyway, there is a danger that another next twenty-five years, all medical colleges may have to close down. Because artificial intelligence will make Surgeries are all happening. Still human beings are needed because But in twenty-five years' time... I saw a doctor who... whom I know very well. He's carrying an old Blackberry, the first model that came which is that thick (Gestures) Every time any patient whatever, I said, "What are you looking in the phone He said, "No Sadhguru, the entire... all my textbooks are here, in this phone. I'm just looking and telling them." So, if you can look, the phone can become If you just tell the symptoms to Alexa, she will tell you what you should do (Laughter/Applause). So, this form of symptomatic treatment you are just gathering data and This a machine will be able to do because it can process much faster So it is time the young doctors how you should be able to look beyond the symptoms. This is what Ayurveda and Siddha is significant about. There was a yogi with whom I volunteered for some time for his medical camps that he used to have. It was like a festival, okay? For everybody who comes to him, he has a Simply something he will give and people are cured. Thousands of people will queue up for him every day. And he himself lived to be one-knot-six. See, if somebody lives for hundred-and-six fully active till the last day of his life, Hello? My great-grandmother lived to be one-one-three...hundred-and-thirteen years' of age. I will tell you. This is...This may sound absurd to you. But you must listen to this because if you're not open, there'll be no new learning. Well, I saw her only after she is hundred. She was living all by herself in a open field. Not for god; for herself. She built a temple and she sat in it (Laughter). This is very common in India, especially They sat there and they served humanity So when we went there for vacations and all, If you give her breakfast, she will take this (Gestures) and put it to the ants, to the squirrel, Most of the breakfast is gone like this. There are self-appointed advisors "You old woman! You don't eat anything, you will die." They all died (Laughter/Applause). And she will simply sit there looking Simply tears would be rolling from her eyes. And when somebody said, When I sometimes saw her like this and I asked, She would just laugh loudly and she would say, It took me over twenty-five years to know this - that your life is not nourished hundred percent Life is a bigger phenomena than what Before you came, this cosmos was there. After you and me are gone still it'll be fine, isn't it? There is an intelligence beyond you. Don't immediately quantify it as god, this, that. Because you're making a conclusion If you stay here... This is very important... If you live here, clearly knowing your intelligence will remain alert to everything. But you make conclusions; reading a book, You say, "I know this," "I know that, "I know that." The moment you identify with your knowledge Because it doesn't matter how much you know still, But our ignorance is boundless. If.. This is called as the "intelligence of ignorance." If you always know that you do not know, whether your body is awake or asleep, This is what a doctor must do. Because... I'm sorry to say such things. You may know medicine; you might have you might have treated many patients She had a first death... first... (Laughter). Everything seems to be perfect, somebody Everything looks like he's going to die, You will see this happening. Yes or no? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: So there is intelligence beyond you and me. There's an intelligence which makes us happen. There's an intelligence which can If you don't allow that to function within you, you will become a dumb doctor. You must allow the deeper Interviewer (Chetna): Sadhguru, There's She wants to know at Isha, there are many processes that involve tying of In Indian culture also such practices are followed. For example, in Raksha bandhan, a sister ties What is the significance and purpose of Sadhguru: Oh, they are trying that plastic, The idea is to tie a consecrated thread. Tch. Marriage is also happening like that, isn't it? Now of course they're wearing a dog-chain (Laughter). You're supposed to wear Mangal sutra. Every year you're supposed to renew this. Because energetically, it is prepared in a It is in the preparation of the thread. Normally we are using a non-sanforized which is not put through the chemical process Because these are materials which So, this was used to bind people in a certain way, to create a certain sense of But Raksha bandhan, all these things have Everybody is tying a plastic, that chinky-minky stuff. No, it... these are supposed to be done. See the... only the ritual has remained; the science has not remained. That's a problem. Over a period of time we've carried the ritual So let us say it so happened, stretching it to the limit... It so happened, you're a surgeon. After a few generations, you forgot why you do surgery. You just understand you have to cut up people (Laughter). Then you better be in the Even there you cut with a purpose; Interviewer (Abhilasha): Sadhguru, this is the last question from the social media array of questions. So this question comes from Rim. He says that Steve Jobs was said to He often subjected his employees to profanity, fired them in public and pushed them He's also considered one of the Is such behavior justified as long as one Sadhguru: I don't usually like to make a personal But I'm asking you. One thing is what we do; another thing is Is it important, what kind of human being you are? Hello? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: I did something. What did I do? If you did not design it, Koreans would have done it, Chinese would have done it, Indians also beginning to do it. Yes or no? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: There is a certain brand-building And see I want you to understand. You're a doctor... at least on the way. Does this (Referring to Oneself) body need Participants: Oxygen. Sadhguru: Oxygen. But people pumped carbon dioxide into a bottle It's the largest brand on the planet, all right? More people drink... At least all these years more people drank Coca-Cola than people did yoga or people did anything else. In the remotest part of this country, if you utter the word "yoga," But if you said, "Coca-Cola," they knew what it was. So just because it's branded like this and that your system has become such it likes No. Only now because of the Prime Minister today, every village seems to know the word "yoga," Branding, again; again branding! So you can brand things in so many ways, You tell me, is it important that you are Is it important for you? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: Otherwise you Do you like to be shouted at? Right now, I can shout. You like to be shouted at? No. Then why do you think somebody else likes it? Hello? You don't want to be abused, isn't it? Then why do you ever think that somebody else likes it? When you don't like it, you know it is not nice to you. Why do you do it to this person? You lost your humanity fundamentally, isn't it (Applause)? So, just because you made lot of money Alexander, the great idiot What does it mean? It doesn't mean a damn thing to me. Only a fool would call such a man as a great man. He just spent his whole life killing people No, they forgot his third name; it was "idiot" (Laughter) So, please do not go by these standards. Somebody has this much money, Anyway, you... untimely death with cancer happened, you didn't pack all your money and go. He went to the extent of saying that whatever at that time, he had some He said, "Even if I have to use this forty-six billion dollars; every dollar of it, I would like to destroy Google." So you want to kill it even if you lose all your money. Even if both my eyes go, I want to take one eye of hers. This is the crudest level of existence Interviewer (Chetna): Now coming to the Sadhguru: What is that, hmm? Interviewer (Chetna): Now we'll be opening...Sadhguru... Audience members who would like to ask questions Sadhguru: Turn it on, please. Questioner (Geetanjali): Namaskaram Sadhguru, And my question to you goes like this - Sadhguru: Please, if you can hold the mic... Questioner (Geetanjali): ...things associated one, is that if someone donates their organs, they will not have those organs in their body in their next birth. And second is that, you don't get mukti. Do you agree with this? If not, what would you like to say to clear Sadhguru: How many idiots are going to get mukti, The brain that you never used, if it can be Hello? So, see there are certain aspects to it which Today, medical sciences are also looking at this with great curiosity that after a person is medically dead, certified dead, next ten to twelve hours, You... You know this? Hmm? So when this phenomena is happening, if you start cutting up the body, it will disturb that phenomena. But in the yogic systems, we have known this for a very long time we want to hasten that as quickly as possible. If you hasten this and that process is over, after that what you do with the body is nobody's business, okay? You can even give it to the local zoo, as food. But when the phenomena is on if you disturb it, It's not like if you give away your liver, Then what's the problem? If you can function well without a liver, so many people are functioning okay without a brain. So what is the problem (Laughter/Applause)? So this nonsense should go. But at the same time, I meet lot of people taking up organ donation as a mission in their life. "Everybody should donate their organs, Don't push it beyond a certain point Already it's happening big time if you're See, whatever liver, kidney, all of them are designed to last for a lifetime Injury or you drank yourself to death or you're Now I everyday drinking and my liver going This is a very dangerous thing. Please know this. During Hitler's time, they tried to harvest organs They didn't have the science understanding Even today, I hear lots of things in Cambodia, and their organs stolen and it is being transported somewhere else, where people can pay money for it. And you know, it's happened in India, all right? So do not take organ donation beyond a certain point. Where it is needed, with somebody's consent, that's a wonderful thing. How wonderful it is! I'm willing to give away a part of myself But if I capture you and take your two kidneys this is a horrible process, isn't it? We may do one thing with a certain intent, We must be able to see the consequences of our action. Yes, it must be there. It is an expression of compassion A human being that you do not know somewhere, you want to give it - fantastic. But we must be very careful. It should not be pitched up in the society Once you create a marketplace, you cannot stop exploitation. You cannot. Nobody can stop it (Applause). Questioner (Vaachan): Namaskar Sadhguruji, Sadhguru: Little... If you can hold it little closer... Questioner (Vaachan): Yeah... And my question is, If yes, what is it? If no, how can you be so sure of your answers (Applause)? Sadhguru: Did I say something Questioner (Vaachan): Sir, I don't mean like this. Sadhguru: Hmm? Questioner (Vaachan): I didn't mean like this. Sadhguru: Okay (Laughs)? Please sit down. See, certainty of life is a wrong thing. What you say, you... what you see, you speak. Because I'm always willing to say, "I don't know that," Only if you try to speak something that you do not know, you end up saying wrong things, isn't it? I'm not such a fool. I'm not so arrogant in my life. If I don't know something I'll say, "I don't know." Questioner (Sahiti): Namaskaram Sadhguru. I would like to know, in our daily life, Like one side, we get praised for treating if you lose a patient without any due Like how should we internally fix ourselves; How should we internally fix ourselves? Like... should we go with the pain or should the guilt Like how should we cope up with this situation, Sadhguru: (Laughs) You should not listen to both (Laughter/Applause). Questioner (Sahiti): Be stoned, then? Sadhguru: Stoned? Oh, what are you on (Laughter)? Questioner (Sahiti): Like, I still go Sadhguru: No, no. I'll come to that. See, somebody else's opinion becomes important in one's life Yes? If you are very clear about what you're doing, what somebody says - good things or bad things, In fact, the best things that have ever been largely during their lifetimes and it was Today the time-cycle has changed. It will come back sooner... But you must not be doing things because of You must be doing something It really matters to you that right now somebody It should matter to you that I want to fix with whatever means I have in my hands. If she comes to me when I'm in the Suppose in a jungle we were out on a trek I'll take the local twigs and tie it up. All this fancy casing won't be there. But I'm doing my best - that much I know. It may not be the best treatment but I am doing Somebody else may come and say, "See, You should have fixed it that way and Maybe he knows better. This is all any human being can do. Always. What you can do, must happen. In our lives, if we do not do what we but if we do not do what we can do, So you should not become such a disaster. So if you just stick to this one thing - You must see, in the last twenty-five years, what all accusations and criticisms they have made about me. The same people now they're all becoming... not just fans, they're becoming devotees (Laughter). Even now there are some people People tell me, "Sadhguru, how do you listen to all this?" I said, "Just tell me what is the abuse going on? Because, tch, I wish to know." "Sadhguru, you should not listen to all this." Because, when you came and threw flowers on me, personally, it doesn't mean a damn thing to me. Or, when you throw stones at me, it doesn't Because I'm hundred percent clear what I'm doing. Maybe you will take time to evolve But this is not being done for you appreciation. This is being done because this is my way. A guru was there on the banks of Narmada. One day he went for... you know, the bath was always His disciple was holding his clothes and standing there He went in and he saw a scorpion A scorpion is not a swimmer, you know, The disciple screamed, "Don't take that scorpion, The guru slowly walked down, slowly bringing him out. He stung him again and again. The disciple went on screaming, "What are you doing? Just drop the damn thing." The Guru walked and let him out on the bank Then the disciple said, "What kind of rubbish is this? He said, "See, what are you screaming about? The scorpion is doing what it knows best. I am doing what I know best (Applause). You're trained to be a doctor, you do your best. Somebody says something. But the question is, are you doing your best? See, the doctors who treated patients in today's level of medical science, they may look silly and stupid. But they were doing their best. That all, isn't it? They led to a more... a whole lot of people But they were doing their best or not is only question. Because today medicine, science and technology At that time with what little they had, they did their best. Today also what you're doing may look silly Yes or no? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: Medical science will go to places where you may look absurd and silly in fifty years' Does it mean to say you're a bad doctor? No. You're doing your best. That's all you can do. Questioner 1: Namaskaram Sadhguru. My question was already raised by the As you answered we have to be calm, Sadhguru: Did I? Did I say that? Questioner 1: Regarding the doctor attacks. Sadhguru: Oh! Questioner 1: So what is the time period? I mean see... how to safeguard our We need some advice or suggestions Sadhguru: Don't go to Bengal (Laughter/Applause/Cheers) Questioner 1: Add on to this... Sadhguru: I will come to it (Laughter). See, most of the time... tell...correct me 99.9 percent of the time most patients Right or wrong - they do not know. But just that somebody is looking at them Hmm? Somewhere this miniscule 1.1 percent - Then everybody thinks we must beat our doctors. Okay? Don't get into that mode. This whole doctor thing happened because of Not just because they were beaten. And even for them to beat there is a political That doesn't happen everywhere. And at the same time we must also there are corrupt people who do all kinds of things. There have been (Laughs)... In Tamil Nadu, there have been situations for about three to four days and they were The doctors didn't complain because they were caught properly. So I'm saying, human beings do this and that. Don't make it as the trend by overly talking about it. "Doctors are being beaten, beaten." Now people think, "Yeah, we can beat the doctors Do not create that situation. Generally 99.99 percent does not look at a doctor like that. Many people are looking at them god-like. Hello? So let's not create that culture simply Yes, unfortunately, it happened. And not only that it happened; But for whatever reasons, it went the way it went. If the election results were not so close behind, Yes, there is resentment. There is So don't take that as everybody Do not create that narrative - "Doctors can be beaten." No, nobody can be beaten, Interviewer (Chetna): We can have one Questioner (Akhileshwar): Hello. This is Akhileshwar Reddy, third-year medical student. Sadhguru: Please... speak up, hmm. Questioner (Akhileshwar): In Telugu Society, parents take up the responsibility to educate the children to direct them into right career; whereas in contrast, in Western society, children take up their own choices So how can this change in Indian society? Sadhguru: I do not get the context of the question. You're saying here parents are supporting or they're deciding what course you should take? Questioner (Akhileshwar): Deciding... Sadhguru: Hmm? Questioner (Akhileshwar): To pay the feeses, Sadhguru: At least why don't you I know you want to speak from your heart Questioner (Akhileshwar): That parents choose Sadhguru: Is it so? They try to advise you little forcefully (Applause). But If you don't go to what they want; your mother won't eat A little drama will happen at home. But if you're very clear where you want to go But you yourself do not know what you want to do, maybe you decided better to take advice from them. You...from somewhere you taking advice, isn't it? Either from your friends; or from your teachers; you're taking advice from somewhere. So in that parents always have a stake. Unless you are very clear what you want to do. I think most people when they decide this, They have no clue what they want to do. So why can't parents also have their say? So most important thing is, what is needed in the world today? Do I have such a specific kind of Let's say, I want to be an artist. I don't want my talent to go by going to a But I just went and saw a movie yesterday, Because of that a very pretty girl came No, because of that you want to become an artist; Now parents will say shut up and go to medical college. If you don't get that, go to engineering college Because you must understand - if you did not get the right education Today's situation is little better; But in the previous generation, their fear was always this - "If my child doesn't get an education where job is certain, what will happen, They're coming from that. You have to give But if you are very clear, What is it that you're going to do? So it is not a question of western and eastern thing. West...in something else is happening. You must see - I've been to so many What I see is, in almost all the top universities, the students who are doing really well are just The white-Americans are really down; because all these three societies have good parental support (Applause). Unfortunately for the white kids, most of them are out of their family They're living with their boyfriend or girlfriend, They're working part-time and they're trying to study. What will you drop - job or education? Education! Most people drop the education. So their numbers have dwindled. So small it's become. You really go to any top university and see, everywhere there are... there used to be too many Indians; but today they are more Chinese, second is Indians, third is Jewish people. All of them have solid family support. They don't have to go and work somewhere; All their parents want is you study. And they come to the University, sit there and see if they're studying or not, what's happening, everything. The other kids are just drunk in the evening, doing those things. If that's what But that's not called education, that's all. After some time in the society, who will dominate the situation will be So in that concern, parents want to push. For most of you, if you show a certain kind I don't think cruelly somebody It is just that if your father happens to be a physician; I've gone through plenty of that (Laughter). Okay? So that'll happen but you must be clear what you want. When you don't know what you want it's... who seems to know a little better (Laughs/Applause). Interviewer (Chetna): Thank you Sadhguru Because of time constraint... Sadhguru: Mhmm (Indicates agreement) Interviewer (Chetna): ...waiting here for your answers.But because of time constraint we will have to end this here. Participants: One last question... (Sadhguru laughs). Interviewer (Chetna): Can we Sadhguru: Yes, please. Questioner 2: Namaskaram Sadhguru, Sadhguru: Oh... Not able to see you (Laughter). If you're a fan, why are you there? You must Questioner 2: Sadhguru I'm so curious So I have so many questions to ask So, I want to know every... every information, you know. So how can I gain that information Interviewer: So, he wants to become Sadhguru. (Laughter) Sadhguru: See this is not about information. Even yesterday this came up. I don't know why all See there are different Right now, you have an education system which which is called as Buddhi or the intellect. You're simply depending upon intellect. Intellect is like this. Do you... I'm going to ask you a question. Do you want your intellect sharp or blunt? Participants: Sharp Sadhguru: Tch, so you understand that intellect is So if I want to dissect you, I need a sharp knife. So if I dissect you... Suppose I really want to know you, shall I dissect you? Hello? That's a way to know. That's the way you So if I dissect you, will I know you? I may look at your kidney, liver, spleen, this, that You have dissected frogs and cockroaches at one time. Have you or has it stopped? Participants: Stopped. Sadhguru: Stopped. Tch. When we were studying we had to dissect these things. And we open up the frog. Poor thing is nailed like Jesus Christ, The teacher coming and telling heart is beating I'm just looking and thinking, You know? Of course he can understand that much, That he opens up my body; looks at the heart pumping We would have just asked him, he would have told you, So, by dissection you can only know certain things - You cannot know life by dissection. But right now you only have a cutting instrument See if you want to cut something, Suppose I want to sew my clothes, That's all that's happening to human life right now because they're using a single dimension They're using a knife to fix everything. I must tell you, there was a time So I'm somewhere between Whole night I've... I am like this - day or night I will be just riding simply - no destination. Simply I rode, not to any particular destination. Early morning around 6:30 I come to a place I stopped there and those days and even now, every few thousand kilometers you have to So my chain has become little slack. But early morning... It's easy job to do but your hands will become greasy; then Then I sit down to have a tea. Then I look there is one little shack where So I thought anyway Mubarak mechanical works, Then I said, "Hey come here." Said, "This chain is loose. Can you fix it?" "Sir, no problem, I can fix it." Then he went inside his shack and Then I looked at it and said, "What? You're going to fix my chain with chisel and a hammer?" He said, "Yeah, I can do it. I can do it." I walk down to his garage -"Mubarak mechanical works." I walked inside. All he's got is a chisel and hammer and he will repair anything in your motorcycle After that, nobody can open or close anything. With a chisel and hammer he opens the bolt, nut, everything and does work but after that it's finished. I said, "No, no, no. You're not gonna touch Why I'm telling you this is, right now most human beings have become "Mubarak mechanical works." They only have a knife; with a knife they're See, just look at this and see. Is it the educated people or the uneducated people Participants: Educated. Sadhguru: Arey! Education should have brought more sense, isn't it? With a cutting instrument they're trying to do all activity. They will be a mess. That goes for a doctor also. Their holistic... more holistic approach is needed, especially with medicine, with all aspects of life for that matter. So, the important thing is this there are we have buddhi, ahankara, manas, chitta, like this. In yoga, we look at human mind as These sixteen dimensions have If you do not cultivate all those you are No, you don't have to store information. It's like this. How much time do you spend Interviewer (Chetna): Half of my day. Sadhguru: Half of your day? Interviewer (Chetna): On and off... Sadhguru: Okay. I didn't think a doctor got so much time Anyway, whatever time. Suppose the mirror that you're and remembered at least ten percent today if you went and stand in front of that mirror, Hello? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: The reason why mirror is showing you It might have seen 10,000 people but it has no memory. Because of this it simply sees everything This is what you need to do to your mind. Right now, you are totally leaning Tell me if I take away your memory, Hmm? Hello? Interviewer (Abhilasha): No. Sadhguru: Your intellect is useless without So that is what the problem is. Like I said earlier your memory is your knowledge "What I know" "what I do not know"is a boundary, If you want to breach that boundary, you must Because memory is not the way. Memory It will not show you anything else; it will Recycling something cannot be considered intelligent. Machine can do that. You will see another next ten-twenty years; you will see everything that you think is knowledge will be useless. Scholars who read ten books suddenly If you read ten books, you become a scholar; if you And suddenly by reading one book I don't understand. Just reading a single book! We must look at this because this is very important. Human memory is very small. It has six hundred GB, it can do ten PhDs in a day. Yes. So, people who are reading something, those days are over. What you need is - you need an incisive intelligence For this, you need a plain mirror which doesn't If you want to work on it, please come. You're a big fan, we'll hang you somewhere (Laughter). Thank you very much (Applause). Interviewer (Chetna): Thank you Sadhguru. Sadhguru: Whatever you do, this is a great Still in the world most of the population is un-served. So please, whatever you do, wherever you go, they are down and when people are down, When I'm standing you can fight with me; Hello? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: So just know people who are You must give the best that you have to that person. Just do this one thing as a doctor, just this will do wonderful things to people.