- This is a video about that underpins all of from classical mechanics from quantum theory to general relativity, right down to the ultimate the fundamental particles. All of it can be replaced It feels like we're - We're approaching spooky territory. I hear you and I agree. - [Derek] It may in fact of life itself. - I think I'm stuck in some the local picture, the differential equation way of thinking about the universe, that that's really what's going on. But I fear that I have - And it all starts with a simple problem. If you wanna slide a mass what shape of ramp will This is known as the - You know, common sense, you might say take the shortest path. Straight line from A to B. - [Derek] But if you at the beginning, well, the mass accelerates So even though it it travels faster and So the question is, what shape of acceleration and path length to minimize travel time? According to Galileo, it He showed that this is But is it the fastest? Nearly 60 years later, in June of 1696, Johann Bernoulli set this to the best mathematicians in the world. - Mainly because he's a big show off and he wants to show that - [Derek] He gave everyone six months to come up with solutions, but none were submitted. So Gottfried Leibniz, a persuaded him to extend the deadline to give foreigners a chance. - And I think Newton was because everybody thought and so Johann would've wanted to show that he was better than Newton. He was no longer a really active He was working as the warden of the Mint, like a big high government position. - [Derek] And on the Newton returned home to find Bernoulli's challenge in the mail. Irritated, he wrote, &quot;I do not love to be dunned about mathematical things.&quot; But the problem was too enticing, so Newton spent the rest and by 4:00 a.m. he had something that took Bernoulli two weeks. Newton submitted his solution to the journal Philosophical Transactions. - He sent his solution And Johann Bernoulli, is alleged to have said, &quot;I recognize the lion by his claw.&quot; You know, that, &quot;Okay, you I can tell who you are. Who else could give such a solution?&quot; - [Derek] And while overall in this instance, Bernoulli's solution - I could see why Johann Bernoulli wanted to challenge everybody, because he came up with a really clever, I would say like a truly - To do it, he took inspiration from a problem faced by How does light travel This was contemplated in the 1st century AD. He realized that in a light always follows the shortest path. A consequence is that when the angle of incidence is always equal to the angle of reflection. Any other path between would be longer. But when light goes from like from air into water, it bends in a peculiar way. It refracts and it doesn't - If you've ever dropped something at the bottom of a swimming pool and you look for it through the water, if you put your hand in there, it's not necessarily where you think it is because the light has bent - So what is the guiding principle here? Well, over the next 1,600 that the sine of the angle of incidence divided by the sine of is equal to a constant, n, which depends on the This came to be known as Snell's Law. But no one knew why it worked. That is, until 1657. - So another great mathematician enters our story at this point. This is Pierre Fermat. By day he was a judge, but at night he'd come home and hang out with his wife and kids and then do what he really loved the most, which was work on math for fun. And he mostly worked in pure math but at one point he got why does light obey this - [Derek] And he thought was on the right track, but it's not distance but rather time. But to see if this was true for refraction would be difficult. He would have to work out every possible path light could take by varying the point where and compute the time for each, and then show that light takes the path for which the total travel - He doesn't know how to solve it and he worries that it's even if he could solve it, so he's not gonna do it. I think it's 'cause he in physics, actually. But anyway, years go by, he gets interested in it five years later and tries to solve it, and then he does solve it and he shows that Snell's as the minimizing path under these conditions with one speed of light - [Derek] And that constant, n, well, that's just equal in the first medium divided by the speed of which allows us to rewrite - And he says this thing, I just wanna read you a He says that this is the most unforeseen, and the happiest calculation&quot; of his life. See, it's good to do physics. (both laugh) If you use that principle of least time, you can explain everything at the time of Fermat. It's the first time, as far as I know, that anyone shows that nature obeys an optimization principle, that nature does the best possible thing. In this case, that light takes - [Derek] Now, Bernoulli knew about Fermat's principle of least time, and he thought he could of fastest descent. - He converted the problem about a particle sliding down a chute to a problem about optics. - [Derek] Instead of a mass he imagined a ray of light as it went into layers of And if you make the where Snell's Law is you eventually get a continuous curve. Now the question is, how should the speed of light change from one layer to the next so that it accurately - [Steven] You could try to if the particle has to fall from A to B, it's gonna be picking up kinetic energy, it's going faster and faster and it's converting the into this kinetic energy. If you write down the for that relationship, you find that the velocity at any time, having fallen a distance, let's say y, its velocity squared will the height from the top. So velocity goes like And that'd be sort of like saying imagine light moving in a way where, instead of a constant speed of light, the speed of light is proportional to the distance from the top. - [Derek] Now let's zoom in We can plug in our expression for the speed of light in each layer into Snell's Law. Then find that the sine of the first angle divided by the square root is equal to the sine of the second angle divided by the square root And now here's the key insight. Snell's Law also holds for the next layer, and there the ingoing So this is also equal to divided by the square root of y3. And the same goes for the next In other words, this ratio must be equal to And this equation, the story goes, Bernoulli immediately recognized as the equation of a cycloid. That is the path traced out by a point attached to the rim of a rolling wheel. This is also known as from the Greek for shortest time. - [Steven] And so the astonishing solution is that the fastest way to get from A to B is to follow an arc of a cycloid. Not a circle, a shape called a cycloid. - Now, this curve also has No matter where I release the mass from, it always reaches the For this reason, it's also known as the tautochrone curve, from the Greek for same time. Upon finding this solution, Bernoulli wrote, &quot;In this way two important problems, an optical and a mechanical one, and have achieved more than I have shown that the two problems taken from entirely separate have the same character.&quot; Little did Bernoulli know he Around 40 years later, one of his students, also studied the behavior and he noticed that there are cases where the two behave very similarly. This made him think, what if Fermat's principle of least time wasn't the most fundamental? I mean, why should nature Maybe there is a more foundational one that doesn't only govern So, in the 1740s, he which he called the action. It is mass times velocity times distance. His thinking went something like this. The farther something travels, The faster it goes, And if it's a particle, the greater the action. If there are multiple then the total action is just the sum of the mass times velocity To see the principle in action, here is a super simple example Imagine a 0.5 kilogram ball for 6 meters at 3 meters per second. Then that would be 9 units of action. If the ball then bounces and travels another 6 meters then the action for the whole trip is 9 plus 9, or 18 units of action. Now, what Maupertuis claimed is that out of all possible trajectories where the ball bounces off the wall, the path it will follow is the one that minimizes the action. In 1744, he wrote, &quot;This action is the which she manages to make So what was the response to He was attacked and ridiculed. One of his longtime friends, a fellow physicist named Samuel Konig, wrote that &quot;not only is you also stole it from Leibniz.&quot; Voltaire, who used to be a accused him of plagiarism, and just about anything In fact, he wrote a 32-page pamphlet just to mock Maupertuis. Of course, this may have Voltaire's lover had an But not everyone attacked him. Some just ignored him. - Maupertuis, I've taken in my life. I think you're the first person He doesn't get much mention. - All of this was terribly who was nearing the end of his life, and more than anything, he thought the principle of least action would be what he was remembered for. That would be his legacy. But now he was attacked, Unfortunately, this treatment was at least somewhat justified because Maupertuis came by kind of just picking There was no obvious reason about mass times velocity times distance, or even less, why that And mathematically, the wasn't rigorous either. But there was one man who and that man was Leonhard Euler. The first thing Euler did was he replaced the sum with an integral so you could calculate the action while speed or direction And he used this to find around a central mass, like the orbit of a planet around a star. Solving this meant that between two points, he would have to find the one for which the action was the smallest. This is similar to the only now, instead of he would have to vary every which is infinitely many. Needless to say, this was an arduous task. Math had not yet developed the tools required to handle such problems. Fortunately, Euler himself It was clunky and time Through this process, he realized that the only works if the total and it is the same for These were two conditions that Maupertuis hadn't So Euler improved the mathematical He found two extra conditions and he provided a specific - Euler is an astonishingly powerful and not just great mathematician, but appears to be a good guy. As far as we could tell, You can still read Euler He helps you, he's empathetic. You know, he was like you are, man. He's trying to explain stuff. - But Euler was still That would have to wait for Joseph-Louis Lagrange. Joseph-Louis Lagrange mostly self-taught. But despite his age, he was already working at including with Euler's new method. In 1754, he shared his results with Euler, who replied that Lagrange to the highest summit of perfection,&quot; which caused him &quot;the greatest joy.&quot; But besides being world the two had another thing in common. They were both huge proponents of the principle of least action. And around five years later, just a year after Maupertuis' death, Lagrange succeeded in Is there any intuitive I feel like there's an intuitive and there's kind of an intuitive but is there an intuitive - I don't know. I wanna watch your show to learn. I hope you'll come up with it because I don't have a - [Derek] Now I wanna but I don't want to do it the way he did. So instead, we'll go through three steps. First we'll explain the general approach Euler and Lagrange came up with. Then we'll rewrite the And finally we'll apply this to show you why it works. So first, the general approach. If there are infinite possible paths, how do you find the one Well, Euler and Lagrange in a similar way to how you There you take the derivative And where the slope is horizontal, So if you took a tiny step the value of the function And similarly, if you have then if you were to change it a little bit by, say, adding a tiny bump imagine we're just adding to our path of least action, well, then the action because we're at this the path of least action. You add a little bit to the minimal path but the action is still the same. If that is the optimal path then any other path must have more action. - So the counter there is like all of this is the first order. So if you're looking at linear terms that are proportional then the first order, the difference in action will be 0. And the way you could imagine this is like let's say you're at the bottom of a bowl and you're at the minimum and you make some tiny step If that change would you would maybe increase on this side but decrease on this side and then this would no So sort of the coefficient But since you're at a minimum, it kind of goes like a parabola, so it can be proportional to eta squared or potentially some higher order term. So there is a tiny but it's not proportional to eta. So the first order, the change in action and some trial path is 0. - So what you can write is that the action of this trial path minus the action of the true path is equal to 0 to first order. This is a compact way of writing the principle of least action, and it's the general approach you use to solve all these problems. So with that in hand, let's rewrite the principle starting with Maupertuis' action, which is the sum of mass But Euler changed this into an integral, so it's the integral integrated over distance. Now the velocity is equal to ds over dt, which we can rearrange And plugging this in, we have an integral of But wait, that's just And as Euler pointed out, the total energy must be conserved. Total energy is just So we can rewrite this And filling this in for that the variation of T plus is equal to 0. Now we can split this integral into two, and since the energy is constant, we can integrate this term And we can simplify this even further. Just like with a normal derivative, we can write the variation of E times t as E times the variation of t plus t times the variation of E. But remember, as Euler found, the energy of different so the variation between them is 0 and this term drops out. If we rearrange this like so, then we find that the is equal to minus the energy This looks a lot like some if only this was equal to 0. Well, we can make this 0 by only considering paths that If you do that, then there's and this term drops out. And what we find is that has changed into another form where now the variation of kinetic energy minus potential energy integrated over time is equal to 0. - T minus V, kinetic energy and then you integrate that along a path that you're traveling from A to B, and then integrate it It's all very strange and yet that turns out to be - [Derek] Now this is a little weird. We started with mass times velocity integrated over distance, and now we have the kinetic energy minus the potential energy integrated over time. And somehow both are ways to write the principle of least action. But that also means T minus V integrated over time, is another way to write the action. The first person to write the principle was William Rowan Hamilton in 1834, and by doing so, he got the - So the principle of least action that we write as integral of Ldt, L being being the Lagrangian, the T minus V, the kinetic they don't call it Lagrange's Principle, they call it Hamilton's Principle. So I guess Hamilton is building - Hamilton's Principle is the modern way of writing the principle of least action and the way you'd find it in In part that's because how objects move from one place to another rather than just giving Two other important differences are that the action is instead of space. And a consequence is that you now need a start and end point, and also a start and end time. The third is that with you need to keep the energy but the time can vary. While with Hamilton's Principle, the energies can differ but the time has to be So now we have our general approach and the modern way of so let's apply it to a simple Let's say I throw this ball so it goes from some start point to say a different end point Now if we call the height then we can plot these two points like so, and then we can imagine infinitely many possible trajectories that could connect these two points. Some go a little higher, some lower, some have wiggles, others don't. The only condition is that all paths must have and the same amount of Now to find the real trajectory, we proceed as before. We imagine that this is the one with the least action. And then we imagine making by pushing it up a little here, down a little there, and so on, making tiny changes at every time step, which we'll call eta of t. So when you add y and eta together, you get this new trial path, let's call it q of t. And since the variations are small, the difference in action Our next task is to solve this equation. So we compute the action for each path. For this, we need the kinetic and we write them as a Plugging that in, you get the difference in But wait, this first integral is just the action of the true path, so these integrals cancel, and what you're left with is just that. m times dy over dt times d eta over dt minus eta times the integrated over time is equal to 0. We can rewrite this further That allows us to replace And if we plug that in, we now have some function that when multiplied by eta has to be equal to 0. But since eta can be just about anything, this can only be true if this part is 0. So what we found is that the that satisfies this curious Now it might look Minus the derivative of the And the second derivative of height? Well, that's just acceleration. So if we rearrange this, we find that the path that satisfies the principle of least action is the one that obeys F equals ma. In other words, the principle to Newton's Second Law, but it covers more than just mechanics. Fermat's principle of least time turned out to be nothing of the principle of least action. So with this single principle, you could suddenly describe everything, from light reflecting and refracting, to the swinging of a pendulum clock, to planets orbiting the sun and stars orbiting the core of the galaxy. What used to be viewed as entirely separate fields of physics were now all unified under The variation of the action is 0. After Euler found out he wrote to him, &quot;How satisfied would were he still alive, if he could see his applied to the highest degree of dignity to which it is susceptible.&quot; With Lagrange's proof, we now have two ways to You can either use forces and vectors or you can use energies and scalars. It seems like the is just way too complicated. It is so unnecessary. Who would ever use this, you know, when you could just use Like that's a piece of cake. - Your options are either use all of this or just start with F equals ma, and they give you the same answer. Why ever use the Well, that's because Euler and to make all of this like - [Derek] If this is the action, then T minus V is called the Lagrangian. Now let's replace everything we did before with the Lagrangian. Then you see that the whenever this differential - So all you have to do now if you wanna solve any mechanics problem is you just write down the and you plug it into this And that becomes extremely powerful. - I remember thinking, &quot;Man, force is like hard You can do it if you're good, and people who are good But with the Lagrangian approach, you have this machine crank out the principle and you get the right equation to motion and you don't have to be a good physicist. That was what I took from it, that as a math guy I can do physics thanks to Lagrange and Euler. - And it doesn't just If you have more dimensions, then you just solve the for each coordinate. - Another thing that's great is you could use weird coordinate systems that might be better Like if you were doing a you might want to use polar coordinates instead of Cartesian coordinates. And this will give you the in polar coordinates, which again might be kind of - [Derek] Like with the double pendulum. Trying to solve this using - Because as one pendulum is swinging, it provides the attachment point for the pendulum hanging below it, and so that pendulum is in as it's swinging. It's a very nasty job to write for a double pendulum. But if you write it down with it's pretty easy. - This is actually how Now, there is one little side note we should give about the because the name is a little misleading. - Although we often refer to the principle as the principle of least action, it's probably good to that sometimes it's not Just as when you find in calculus when you set a derivative to 0, that doesn't guarantee of a function. The principle of least should be the principle That the laws of motion come from demanding a stationary point, which is tantamount to this condition of setting a certain derivative to 0 and then getting the So very often it is a true - But action is much more fundamental than just classical mechanics. Around the turn of the 20th century, action popped up as the to one of the biggest at the time. The UV catastrophe. - It's kind of spooky that starts the ball rolling brings action in. Not energy and not force, action. It gives you a hint, yeah. - But that and much more will have to wait for a separate video, so make sure you're subscribed to get notified when it comes out. The story of the principle of least action is the story of how knowledge compounds, growing through steady until it changes how we And it's not just big where this happens. Learning a little every making you smarter and And you can start doing with this video's sponsor, Brilliant. Brilliant helps you get smarter every day while building real practical skills in everything from math and physics to data science and programming, whatever it is that sparks your curiosity. What I love most about Brilliant getting hands on with real problems that help you build intuition. And since all their it's easy to take small steps like the language of most Brilliant recently updated their excellent course on calculus which doesn't just it guides you through them That way you don't just memorize concepts, you really understand them Now, I truly believe that is one of the best gifts And with Brilliant, it's super easy. All it takes is a few minutes, which could be on your And before you know it, you're ending each day a bit smarter. So to try everything Brilliant for a full 30 days, visit brilliant.org/veritasium, click that link in the And if you sign up, you'll also get 20% off their So I wanna thank Brilliant and I wanna thank you for watching.