In this episode jennifer drives a muscle car I Make a bet you want to have a little wager Gary makes a funny face This is the slowest drag race in history and all hell breaks loose really What's going on I Put the carburetor on the v16 this morning right Yes, let's do it. All right Hey, if you ever dream to be 16 before oh? There's your first day. Oh, are you intimidated? No. I'm excited. I've been wanting to drive this car This pop out here is also a transmission lock They didn't want people stealing their Cadillacs in those days so when you push that in to turn it off That's how you turn it off. Oh wow hey a Plunger goes into transmission. You can't get it in gear now and that's their lock device That's yeah, so they gave us an ammeter a temperature gauge. Where's the speedometer o'clock make the clock Same size is a spinner. Okay. Give us an oil pressure gauge Not bad $6,000 you need to get a few things Just three months after the stock market crashed in 1929 Cadillac introduced their most expensive car yet the be 16 Hour car that all-weather Phaeton retailed at five thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars Plus accessories. This is so cool. Oh This car is rather easy to drive, but the turning radius is not so good The steering though feels like a bus use minutes all metal you need ever arises of lenore Their ideas This car was built for a refinement and luxury sales in 1930 far exceeded their expectations is they sold 2200 cars than nine months I Really love this car and I hope mark is not in a hurry to sell it as I am going to claim it for myself Hello oh hi, Jim you're gonna get this thing right in yes I Don't know good luck with it. Don't need any luck That's my Cadillac v16 more horsepower This is a Cadillac wanna beat. I'll bet you my Packer could beat you in a drag race Yeah, right your dreams You want a challenge oh? Really, you're challenging me me. Let's do this alright I'll bet you my Packard with less horsepower and half the cylinders beats your Cadillac isn't alright When I'm not worried When 1934 Packard standard eight 1101 Jennifer thinks I can't get it running I did even manage to get a little bit of Dino time on it It's putting out a 120 horsepower 320 cubic inch engine Zero to 60 and 20 seconds not very good But this car only weighs 4,400 pounds compared to Jennifer's behemoth 1931 Cadillac v16 weighing 5,800 pounds 5,800 pounds I Think you're gonna be a piece of plywood stuck up in the wind Trying to push a ton of air out in front of you this car has 175 horsepower And even though I'm pushing a piece of plywood down the road I could beat that Packard in a day Let's do this okay? All ready set go Wait wait wait that's not how close it was let's go back and look at what really happened So Jennifer yes my Packard blew your Cadillac away yes I Can't ship this thing over 20 miles an hour's. This is a hundred and seventy-five horsepower, but it won't shift worth a darn Yeah Let the RPM go all the way down all the way down so you can't Kennedy speed up between the shifting. Well. I cheated you I Just knew it would build a shift as fast as my pack Good for you. I knew that I could speech you if the Packard. I knew you I Did I only bet one I know I can win nice what a nice guy you know well You know what I know I can outdrive you so I'd like a rematch Hmm, and I get to choose a different car noise car Hey, it's on all right we'll take me on I'm gonna win this thing now we'll see I Wonder what car she's gonna pick Well I would say the eyes Etta she might be qualified for that Maybe I think she's gonna pick this Lincoln you think so this got to be the fastest car in the shop the engine dyno would have 475 horsepower It's a Warner of you obeyed in the attention This card I noted a hundred and seventy-five horsepower and only weighs 5,000 pounds Would you trust her in that the eyes Etta has 12 horsepower at sea level and it weighs? 792 pounds I hope she picks the eyes, Etta Because I've got something up my sleeve I've got a car here that she doesn't even know about The 1967 MGB roadster, I hope she shows up in that Lincoln. I think I've got her once again Okay Yeah American my soul you set me up This is an eye How many horsepowers I have clearly not enough I did I Asked 707 what is that Nadia? No how about? Thank you, but I thought you were gonna bring the Lincoln I Thought I heard you again. No, I told you I was gonna I wanted a rematch those gonna pick a different car and I went for it. Thanks for the warm-up. You one-up me here Well, you know what I brought you something just for you you can hold it in the air I guess I'm gonna need it. I brought a knife to a gunfight This is my surrender flag kind of matches my car. It's a little small in it. I feel like you're gonna cry that it's here I'm gonna lose the challenge all right. Well. I want a rematch How many rematches do you we should do a foot race? You knew you were gonna win That's the only time you bet then you know you're gonna win yeah Well can you drive this thing yeah From behind