(soft dramatic music) - My name is Jim Al-Khalili. I'm a professional physicist about my passionate interest I never cease to be astonished of science in shedding light from the tiniest things in existence to extraordinary objects In this series, I want to show you how science gives us insights into the biggest questions of all. How did the universe come into being? How did life start on earth, What is the nature of space and time, the very reality we live in? And how will it all end? (dramatic music) In this episode, we'll look of modern physics, Einstein's which has radically of space and time, and quantum mechanics, which reveals the of the subatomic. And we'll see how the quest into a theory of everything has given rise to some extraordinary ideas about the fundamental nature of reality. I want to explore the latest developments and astonishing new theories that continue to shape the way we I hope this series will show you just how amazing our universe is. may never have occurred to you to ask, but once you start looking the horizons it opens up mind boggling. Okay, so what is space? (static hisses) But does space only exist Does space only have a meaning Ultimately, the question is this. Does space in itself have form? (contemplative music) The properties Of space by the mathematician in his legendary text &quot;The Elements.&quot; In it, he laid down a set about space in what today For Euclid himself and for for the next 2,000 years, these rules weren't just They were also true statements about physical reality itself. So they thought that two parallel lines would remain parallel forever, that the triangle in real space would always have angles But weird as this might sound, it's not actually always true. (soft piano music) Almost 250 years ago in a a mathematician was born. His name was Carl Friedrich Gauss. Gauss tackled many great but from a young age, he began of Euclid may not be as absolute For example, on the surface of a sphere, the angles of a triangle can add up to more than 180 degrees. (discordant music) Let me explain with this globe. You see, we can see that because we can stand back and look at it. But what if you were an How would it know that So imagine you're the ant and you start off at the North Pole, and facing south, you move At the equator, you still face south, and you shuffle sideways Then you reach a certain point, and then you start walking backwards so you're still facing the same direction, and head back to the North Pole. Now, look, what's happened here. You've been pointing and yet when you arrive you're facing in a different direction. Understanding this gives us a way of calculating the curvature of the surface without ever leaving it. (soft piano music) This was an amazing to curve surfaces, which It would take a brilliant Bernhard Riemann, to develop these ideas in a way that could be applied to the three-dimensional Age just 26, Riemann encapsulated about geometry in a lecture that was to become legendary among mathematicians. In June 1854, Riemann to an enraptured audience. In them, he detailed how on curved surfaces and generalized them so that they applied not only to curved two-dimensional surfaces but the curvature of (audience applauds) Okay, so I'm sure this all What exactly do we mean by So let me try and Gauss talked about curved Well, here we have a sheet of paper, and it's two dimensional. So if I curve it, we can but only because it's Now, what if we curved three dimensions? Presumably, we'd need a fourth dimension. (soft piano music) But how do you get to this It's impossible to step outside of our three-dimensional world. Wherever you travel in the universe, no matter how far you go, you're always stuck in three dimensions. The genius of Riemann was to stand in a fourth dimension You could actually do it from the inside. But for Riemann, this would always remain a It would take Albert Einstein to tie these mathematical ideas together and apply bendy, curved, to the real space that surrounds us. (muffled chatter and laughter) In the general theory of relativity, Einstein took the mathematics and used it to paint a of the physical world. He showed that just as the geometry of the space around us isn't always of the regular, (upbeat bright calliope music) But if space is bent and surely we must be able Well, we do, just not in This was Einstein's major insight. He showed that it was the ability for space to bend and warp, for it to be flexible that gives rise To the (grunts) All right. Now since Newton's time, to be a force that pulls So if I drop this apple, it's as though there's that's pulling it down towards the earth. But Einstein's theory of relativity gives us a completely different picture and a totally new perspective. (upbeat bright calliope music) So although gravity appears to be a force, it's nothing more than the When an object falls, it's not being pulled by gravity at all. It's just following the (exhales sharply) But the equations of general They revealed that it that caused the space The reason we have gravity is actually bending the space around it. (soft gentle piano music) And although we don't Einstein showed us that we live in a four-dimensional universe. The fourth dimension is time. The onward flow of time itself just as much as the other (seagulls caw in distance) Gauss, Riemann, and Einstein with a description of how the space and time we exist in can be warped. They showed that space and unchanging stage on which the actions of the universe are played out. They're actually part of the performance. (soft gentle piano music) Einstein's equations were that was expanding. Physicists found it hard but astronomical observations was absolutely true. But, and this is the crucial point here, it's not that the galaxies are flying away from each other through space of space itself in between So the universe in its (undulating whirs echo) And that led to an inescapable conclusion. If the fabric of space is expanding, then if you wind the clock there must have been a moment of creation. The universe began with into a singularity, a point of (water splash echoes) From this earliest moment, spreading matter and energy as it grew, to eventually create our vast universe. This event is known as the Big Bang. If you thought curving you've heard nothing yet. (coin clinks) Get ready for the impossible To paraphrase one of the everything we call real that cannot be themselves (static buzzes) and at stake that everything about the world might turn (explosion echoes) (static hisses) (soft mysterious chiming music) We're going to start this by asking another fundamental What is light? Well, you've probably so perhaps you might imagine Understandably, that's what in the age before quantum mechanics. It seemed perfectly reasonable. All around us, we see behaving in a perfectly common sense, wavy way. Look at the shadow of my hand. We understand this as the of my hand and bending just like water waves Perfectly common sense wave-like behavior. Rather like ripples on light was simply ripples of and this was as firmly accepted as the fact that the earth was round. But was this always true? Bit by bit, troubling evidence emerged that seem to contradict In the late 19th century, scientists were studying the then newly and how they were they were building to this one. Basically, by spinning this disc, they could generate huge to jump across the gap (wheel spins) But in doing so, they discovered to do with light. They found that by shining on the spheres, they could make the sparks This suggested a mysterious between light and electricity. (soft mysterious music) To understand what was happening, scientists used this. It's called a gold leaf electroscope. It's basically a more sensitive version of the spark gap apparatus. Now, first of all, I have to charge it up. What I'm doing is adding that are pushing the Now first, I take red light and shine it on the metal Even if I increase the still, the gold leaves aren't effected. Now I'll try this special blue (soft chiming mysterious music) Immediately, the gold leaves collapse. (static hisses) Light can clearly remove from the leaves. It can somehow knock out the But why is ultraviolet at doing this than red light? This new puzzle became known It was a big problem for physicists, and it may not surprise you it was Albert Einstein (dramatic music) This is the Archenhold-Sternwarte Perched on top is a strange, huge iron and steel It's actually a telescope. Built in 1896, the telescope was one of the largest of its kind in the world and made the observatory and astound the public in new science. Albert Einstein gave a very on his theory of relativity, which is, of course, what he's most famous for. But it's not the work that (dramatic string music) In 1905, he'd also come to explain the photoelectric effect, and what he suggested was (dramatic music with deep choral vocals) He argued that we have to that light is a wave as a stream of tiny bullet-like particles. The term he used to describe a particle of light was a quantum. (waves crash) I'll try to explain how this Of course, like all analogies, but hopefully it'll give to help you understand why of particles solves the mystery (soft dramatic music) In this analogy, these red balls represent And those cans over there in the metal. Now in the original experiment, they made electricity of the metal by shining light on it. In my analogy, I'm going to try and knock those tin cans (lively orchestral music) Absolutely no effect. (soft dramatic music) According to Einstein, each particle of red light because red light has a low frequency. So even a very bright red light with many red light particles from the metal plate, Now I'm gonna use heavier balls and I'm gonna try and knock (balls clatter) (cans clatter) They're like the ultra violet (cans clatter) Now each individual light (balls and cans clatter) because ultraviolet light (balls and cans clatter) (soft dramatic music) Just a few of them, like are enough to knock the electrons out of the metal plate and (can clatters) So Einstein's idea that light is made up of tiny particles or quanta of the photoelectric effect. I remember when I first learned by its sheer elegance and simplicity. (static buzzes) Okay, so was Einstein right? Light is made up of tiny Well, yes and no. (up-tempo jazzy ragtime music) Fast forward past the First World War to the Roaring Twenties which yet again bamboozled (muffled chatter) It's the birth of modernism, and scientific revolution, too. Most mind boggling of all is which challenged the very But weirdly, it was an experiment that wasn't even about light. It was about the particles In the mid 1920s, an out at Bell Laboratories which uncovered something entirely unexpected about electrons. Now at the time, it was the electrons were these small but solid particles In the experiment, they at a crystal and watched Now that's entirely equivalent to taking a beam of electrons, and firing it at a screen so that the electrons and hit another screen at the back. (soft whimsical rhythmic music) What the Bell scientists found to the core. To understand why, consider a similar I've set up a simple experiment. I have a water ripple tank placed on top of an overhead projector. I have a generator producing waves that pass through two narrow gaps. The projector beams the image of the waves onto the back wall. You can see as the waves and squeeze through the two gaps, they spread out on the other side and interfere with each other. What this means is that from one wave of meeting they add up to make a higher wave. But when the crest from one This gives rise to these to the signature wave pattern. Bands of light and dark. Whenever you see these the signature wave pattern, that you've got wave-like behavior. So guess what they saw in New Jersey? Well, it seemed the firing electrons, tiny solid particles through the two gaps produced exactly the same kind of pattern, bands of light and dark. (brooding contemplative music) First, light, for a long was found to sometimes and now electrons, for a long were behaving like waves. But it was actually stranger than that. The wave pattern wasn't merely some result of the entire beam of electrons. More recently, this experiment around the world by firing one electron at a time through the (ethereal music) At first, each electron seems to land randomly on the screen. But gradually, a pattern forms, Let me be quite clear about Remember from the wave tank experiment where the signature because each wave passes and then its two pieces But here every individual electron, each single particle is passing alone through the slits before And yet each single electron to the signature wave pattern. Each electron has to be (up-tempo jazzy ragtime music) One of the leading of quantum mechanics was Niels Bohr. He and his colleagues built a new theory of light and matter, and with how mind bendingly strange it was. As Niels Bohr himself said, by quantum theory hasn't understood it.&quot; So, viewers, I'm going and use it to delve deep (muffled chatter) And yes, prepare to be is the only way to explain what we observe when a single electron travels through the slits and hits the screen. Quantum mechanics says this. We can't describe what's All we can talk about are the chances of where the electron might be. This wave of chance somehow producing interference Then when it hits the screen, what was just the ghostly possibility of an electron mysteriously becomes real. Let me try and capture with an analogy. If I spin this coin, (ethereal mysterious music) then all the time it's I can't tell if it's heads or tails. But if I stop it, I force it So before it was not heads or but as soon as I've stopped it, I've forced it to make up its mind. This is what Bohr and was happening with our electrons. (coin spins) In a sense, as it spins, the Similarly, the electron's through both slits, two Our coin then stops at heads. The ethereal wave of and only then becomes a particle. The quantum world was unlike It's hard to overstate Bohr was effectively claiming where the electron actually is And it's not just that you don't It's weirdly as though the electron itself is everywhere at once. (ethereal contemplative music) Bear in mind that electrons and most basic building blocks of reality, and yet here's Bohr saying do we actually conjure their (static buzzes) It's like there's a curtain and behind it, there is no solid reality, just the potential for reality. (coin clatters) Things only become real when we pull back the curtain and look. And this view, ladies and gentlemen, became known as the (audience applauds) (soft dramatic music) None of it seemed to make any sense, yet it was proven true in So most sciences shrugged aside and got on with harnessing of this new science. It simply didn't matter They even coined a phrase for Quantum mechanics led to a profound understanding which helped create the It produced lasers, breathtaking new medical advances, and breakthroughs in nuclear power. Still to this day, quantum mechanics remains a mystery we It tells us that on the subatomic scale, there's no such thing as Particles are continually and almost immediately Space is seething with them, and it's thrown up and even which seems to defy some of the It's known as entanglement. Now, entanglement is this special, incredibly close of quantum particles whose for example, if they were (traffic hums) Let me try and explain this by imagining the two (coins clatter) Imagine these coins are from the same event and then Quantum mechanics says that because they're created and now many of their properties are forever linked wherever they are. Remember, the Copenhagen until you measure one of the coins, neither of them is heads or tails. In fact, heads and tails don't even exist. And here's where entanglement makes this weird situation even weirder. (coins clatter) When we stop the first because the coins are the second coin will And here's the crucial thing. I can't predict what the outcome only that they would always be opposite. (coins clatter) It was almost too crazy to imagine. It says if the two coins communicating instantaneously even if the first coin was on earth and the other was on Pluto. Entanglement may drive the It underpins quantum computers, machines that could solve problems which are far beyond the reach of the fastest machines And yet it remains a mystery that nothing can travel So how can these particles with each other? It's something we still Ever since the two theories were developed around a century ago, that quantum mechanics and of relativity were really just Now, both theories describe our reality but on very different scales, quantum mechanics down at the subatomic and general relativity So now the quest is underway to try and unify these two theories to find a so-called theory of everything. (soft dramatic music) In recent years, an astonishing with many theoretical physicists which may possibly crack that problem. The idea came out of the study of those extraordinary objects When a massive star collapses on itself, it gets smaller and smaller until it heads towards a singularity, a point of infinite density It's a weird structure composed of massively warped space and time. It's by studying black have been pursuing one of What is space and time? (&quot;On the Beautiful Blue Danube Op. 314&quot;) If you've watched my films before, you probably won't be surprised to see that I've decided to and sheer destructive with a water slide and a rubber duck. My poor little duck is about and while it's not, of if you can imagine the water in the slide represents space and time, I'm hoping my homemade contraption will at least give you an inkling of just how mysterious (footsteps shuffle) Now imagine that's the the swimming pool, and this that's been caught by its immensely powerful and so will be pulled The big question is what will happen to the duck as it (jaunty precocious instrumental music) Now remember, Einstein realized that space and time aren't fixed or stable. They change according to your perspective and factors such as the and the distortions of From the perspective of the duck, things will see normal as it moves towards this inevitable extinction in the jaws of the black hole. At least that's what happens But Einstein's general that from my perspective, something very strange (&quot;The Skaters' Waltz Op. 183&quot;) So let's see exactly the same events again but from my perspective. Because the duck is moving into stronger and stronger gravity, the space around it will The duck will mysteriously and slower and slower from my perspective. Eventually the duck will It's called the event horizon, and it's a place where that nothing, not even light, can escape. For me, it will seem as if the duck has frozen exactly at the horizon. General relativity says the duck will fall into the black hole, but I will never know because it's impossible to And that's one reason why Now we can't be absolutely to the duck after it but it's a pretty safe the gravitational stresses are going to rip the duck apart. Now let's take a different a rather tasteful looking ceramic one. And I ought to use it to in physics, but to do that, I'm going to need safety (&quot;Symphony No. 5 in C Minor I'm sorry, but that felt rather good, but I think we can agree that to put this duck back together again. But it's a very important that in theory, we should be even if it has been So even if the duck has and been destroyed, the record of it, the information which could should never be lost from our universe. But this leads us to a major paradox which is still unsolved. So we know that even if the the information that But, and this was something black holes have a temperature. They give off radiation, and they'll just evaporate away. But now we have a really big problem. Where has the duck's information gone now? (soft chiming mysterious music) - All right. - [Jim] Some of the world's are wrestling with this very problem. - Hello. - Hi. - [Jim] Because it could for our understanding of reality itself. Physicists such as professor Sean Carroll. - If we want to talk about the at all, it's only a puzzle if you know that black holes evaporate because if if black holes don't evaporate, then you can just say, &quot;The It's in the black hole.&quot; (laughs) It's only when you say, and it evaporates into that the information seems to be lost. So this is a puzzle. This is the real heart of the black hole information loss puzzle. - [Jim] The paradox to an extraordinary suggestion. Although the duck falls what if its information somehow in the same way as the duck seems to freeze to the outside observer? Professor Marika Taylor how this seemingly impossible concept might actually be true. - It turns out that the surface of a black hole really that we would expect So there are really strong quantum effects around a black hole horizon. And then as you throw it might be absorbed in of quantum computer state. So you can kind of think here as something like in the &quot;Matrix&quot; movie, some really complicated the information is kind of trapped there. - It seems that there is very, that whatever information is in the appropriate senses, on the surface of the black hole. (soft whimsical music) - To us conceptualize physicists refer to a technology It's not an exact analogy, but it helps us understand the basic idea at the heart of it all. This new theory of reality is known as the holographic principle. The reason it's called is because a hologram generates a realistic-looking But all the information needed is contained on a two-dimensional surface. Now the next step in our because some physicists of a hologram to explain the So it could be that the could describe the fundamental (soft pleasant music) - So holography is the idea could really be understood in terms of something which That's why people call it holography. - The idea is that somehow as the real tangible is encoded on a two-dimensional surface. All the information there is located on that two-dimensional surface. - [Jim] Professor Juan Maldacena is a world-leading physicist of the holographic principle. - So the idea is that in our three-dimensional on the two-dimensional boundary, so some region very far away. It's like having a crystal ball, but the ball is very big at And yeah, so what's and what's happening in the boundary are two alternative descriptions and the physical laws, the on the boundary are simple, that they create a complex quantum state. - When Maldacena first was some of the reactions were, &quot;Look, this has to be crazy, right?&quot; And it was only when he really started to flesh out the calculation, show how it worked mathematically, that the entire community - After the initial skepticism, thousands of physicists around the world are now working on the as a possible explanation This is a theory that could and the universe as described into one all-encompassing Now it's important to say that no one has yet proved that we're all holograms. That's still theoretical But the mind-boggling concept of physicists is that all to describe our three-dimensional in a quantum state on a at the edge of the universe. Now that's quite something - We're still, in some sense, the philosophical consequences of this because it is something very profound to say that really, the that we think we live in is deceptive that when we get to that, actually, there's a We need to understand this concept more, and we also need to see how in our astrophysical data, in data that we get from I think by the end of this century, we'll look back at the and just be astonished about of physical reality have actually changed. - Well, it's certainly not proven yet, but perhaps in 10 years' in which I tell you that yes, it's been proven we are all holograms. Or maybe there's another a whole new way of looking at reality that's waiting round the (slow dramatic music) (dramatic music) In the next episode, we'll dig even deeper into the secrets of our existence. We'll see how some deceptively simple laws of physics explain how life can exist and thrive in the universe. We'll learn how the and exquisite patterns of from simple mathematical rules. I'll investigate how the spooky is now helping us understand some of the most important And we'll ask one of the How did life begin? (deep undulating contemplative music)