This video is sponsored by KiwiCo, more about them at the end of the show. This is a picture of the at the center of our Milky Way galaxy known as Sagittarius A*. The black hole itself doesn't emit light so what we're seeing is the This is only the second It was taken by the Event the same people who brought you this image of the supermassive black hole Now, their original plan was Since it's in our own galaxy, it is 2,000 times closer than M87*, but it's also over 1,000 times smaller so from Earth, it appears only And there are a number of additional challenges to observing it. First of all, there is between us and the center of our galaxy so you can't even see In this video from the we zoom in on our Galaxy's core. As we get closer and closer, at some point we have to which can better penetrate the debris, allowing us to see it from Earth. Over the past three decades, we've been able to peer into and witness something truly amazing. A collection of stars zipping around on all kinds of eccentric orbits. They go incredibly fast. One of the stars was clocked going 24 million meters per second. That's 8% the speed of light. All these stars appear to be orbiting something but this object isn't If you watch closely, you can This is what we believe to From the motion of the stars around it, we can infer that the black hole's mass is about 4 million times that of our Sun but all crammed down into a Anything including light that comes within a Schwarzschild can't escape and ends So for us to see any it must come from further out than this, usually from superheated But for its size, Sagittarius A* doesn't It's unusually quiet and dark. The supermassive black hole at the center of M87 in contrast is much more active, gobbling up matter from Plus, since it's over 1,000 times bigger, it takes 1,000 times longer And that means from Earth, is more consistent in where things can change These visualizations are and colleagues at Goethe But the biggest challenge of either supermassive black are so compact and so far from Earth, in the sky, they appear very, very tiny. To get a sense of just how tiny, take the whole sky and The Andromeda galaxy Then divide one degree into 60 arcminutes and one arc minute into 60 arcseconds. Divide an arcsecond into 100, into a 100 again and into 100 once more. And this is the size of It's equivalent to taking a Now, there is no optical that could produce such an image. So in this video, I wanna How did they do it? And what are we actually looking at? So starting with, how did they make these Well, the first thing to know is they weren't made with visible light. They were made using radio waves with a wavelength of 1.3 millimeters. So all the observations were which essentially look When a source emits radio in all directions, but that by the time they reach our planet, the wavefronts are almost This is known as a plane wave. A radio telescope works by scanning back and forth across the sky. When it is pointed it produces a bright spot. That's because all the radio bounce off the dish, and are so they are in phase meaning and troughs with troughs. They constructively interfere. As the telescope moves past the source, some of the radio waves now and therefore they meet up out of phase, destructively interfere, and the intensity of the To make a sharp image, to be as steep as possible so the telescope produces peak intensity only when aimed directly at the source and then the intensity drops rapidly when the dish is moved just There are two ways of achieving this. One is to observe higher That way any slight represents a greater This causes destructive The other way is to increase and this increases the between radio waves on for a given angular adjustment. How narrowly a telescope can identify the source of radio waves is known as its angular resolution. You can think of it as the that the telescope is sensitive to. It is proportional to wavelength, and inversely proportional to The challenge with making is that you're trying to see the structure in a tiny area of the sky. Imagine scanning a radio telescope across the center of a black hole. You would want to see the bright spot as the telescope passes over the left edge and then a dark spot and as it passes the right edge. The problem is, for any individual the angular resolution is too large. So as it passes over the black hole, it would still be receiving as it begins receiving radio The resolution isn't high enough to tell if there's a ring structure there as we'd expect with a black Observing at shorter wavelengths because that light is blocked or by the matter around the black hole. So if you wanna improve resolution, the only way you can do it is by increasing the But if you actually do the calculation, you find that the telescope you'd need would have to be the size of the Earth in order to see the ring of a black hole, which is obviously impossible, but there is a way to do You don't need a complete just pieces of it. Individual radio telescopes up to the Earth's diameter. As long as you can properly from all these distant telescopes, and destructive interference required to achieve the same angular resolution as an Earth-sized dish. This technique is called very So the event horizon telescope but a global network All these telescopes observe Sagittarius A* at the same time. Unlike a single telescope, you can't bounce all the radio and add them up in real time. So instead each telescope records and the exact time down Petabytes of data are generated. But now that data needs and the fastest way to do it was actually to carry hard to centralized locations. Now, think about the data we've got. Electrical signals and precise timings from a number of radio but none of those radio telescopes has enough angular resolution to see the ring of the black hole. So how do you combine that data and get finer detail Well, there is additional information in the relative distances and in the time delays hits one telescope relative to the others. Imagine combining the signals Let's say they both received so those waves were coming in phase. Well, then the source must have been located The radio waves would've to each telescope to except with just two telescopes, that only narrows it that is equidistant from both telescopes. The source could have been And it's actually worse than that. It's possible that the source could be exactly one wavelength closer to one of the telescopes would still arrive perfectly in phase. Or the difference could be two or three or four wavelengths, So from one pair of telescopes, about the source is actually a series of bright and dark fringes. Telescopes that are close while those that are far So to make an image, you at all different orientations Each pair makes a different And then by combining all these patterns, we get an image of the black But now that we have this picture, what exactly is it showing us? Well, this is how I explained it when the first image of a So here is my mock black hole of science. And this sphere represents Once you're inside here, there is no coming back, The radius of the event horizon is known as the Schwarzschild radius. Now, if we were just with nothing around it, to make an image like this because, well, it would just absorb all that falls on it, but the black has matter around it in an accretion disk. In this accretion disk, swirling around here very chaotically. It's incredibly hot. We're And it's going really fast, a significant fraction And it's this matter that and gets bigger and bigger over time, but you'll notice that the accretion disk does not extend all the way Why is that? Well that's because there is an innermost stable circular orbit, and for matter around a that orbit is at three Now, in all likelihood, the black hole at the center of our But for simplicity, I'm just considering You can see my video if you wanna find out more about that. So this is the innermost orbit for matter going around a black hole. If it goes inside this orbit, it very quickly goes into and we never hear from it that can orbit closer to the Because light has no mass, at 1.5 Schwarzschild radii. Now here, I'm representing it with a ring, but really this could So it's a sphere of photon orbits. And if you were standing there, of course you could never go there, but if you could, you could look forward and actually see the back of your head 'cause the photons could go Now, the photon sphere meaning eventually either into the singularity or spiral Now, the question I want to answer is, what does this black, quote correspond to in this picture of what's actually going Is it the event horizon? Are Or is it the photon sphere or the innermost stable, circular orbit? Well, things are complicated. And the reason is, this around it which changes so they don't just go in straight lines like we normally imagine that they do. I mean, they are going in straight lines, but space-time's curved so So the best way to think of this is maybe to imagine parallel from the observer and Of course, if the parallel light rays cross the event horizon, we'll never see them That will definitely be a dark region, but if a light ray comes in it too will get bent and end It ends up in the black hole. Even a light ray coming as the photon sphere will into the black hole and curving So in order for you to get a parallel ray which does not end up in the black hole, you actually have to If a light ray comes in 2.6 it will just graze the photon sphere at its closest approach and And so the resulting shadow It is 2.6 times bigger And you say, what are we What is this shadow? Well in the center of It maps pretty cleanly onto But if you think about it, also end up crossing the event horizon, just on the backside. So in fact, what we get of the event horizon mapped So looking from our one point we actually get to see the entirety of the black hole's event horizon. I mean, maybe it's silly because it's completely black, but that really is where the points would map to on this shadow. It gets weirder than that and go around the back and, you get another image of the in another annular ring And then another one after that And you get basically infinite as you approach the edge of this shadow. So what is the first It is those light rays that that they graze the photon sphere and then end up at our telescopes, which is 2.6 times the So this is roughly what we'd see if we happen to be looking perpendicular to the accretion disk, but at some sort of random We may be even looking edge on. And in that case, do we see You might think that we because of the way the and bends light rays, we actually see the back The way it works is light rays bend over the top and end So what we end up seeing is Similarly, light from the comes underneath, gets bent and comes towards us like that. And this is where we get an like the interstellar black hole. (dramatic music) It gets even crazier than this 'cause light that comes off the top of the accretion disk here can go around the back of the black hole, graze the photon sphere, and producing a very thin ring Similarly, light from in the front can go and come out over the top, which is why we see This is what we could see if we were very close to the black hole, something that looks truly spectacular. One other really important is that the matter in this accretion disk is going very fast, close And so if it's coming towards us, it's gonna look much brighter That's called relativistic And so one side of this accretion disk is going to look much and that's why we're gonna see So hopefully this gives you an idea of what we're really looking at when we look at an image of a black hole. (outro sounds) Hey, this video was sponsored by KiwiCo, creator of awesome You know, I've used KiwiCo They have nine different targeted at different age groups, all the way down to newborns. The way it works is every month and inside it is everything you need to complete the project. That means no extra trips to the store. And when I show my kids the box, they jump at the chance and we can spend hours building something, playing with it, and learning There really is no substitute and making something to figure Plus, it's a ton of fun. And to me, that's how learning should be. I want my kids to And I have seen how this and sparks new ideas. KiwiCo have been long-time I've visited their like a giant playground And I've met their and seen how thoroughly they Now, for viewers of this channel KiwiCo are offering 30% off Just go to kiwico.com/veritasium30. I will put that link So I wanna thank KiwiCo and I wanna thank you for watching.