Online Weekend Retreat with Mooji 17 - 19 March 2023 Dwell Inside Your Own Presence 19 March 2023 [Mooji] May I speak with you, Moa? Thank you. [Questioner: Moa] Thank you so much. [Q.] Thank you, thank you. I just want to settle in a little bit, because there is something when I was listening to and I wanted to take the opportunity Something I felt so strongly, when I was sitting with the feeling, 'Who am I without any relationship, I just burst into tears because I think that was the first time I feel so grateful for that. But, there was also something [Q.] I do still feel that [Q.] the stronger I'm connecting the stronger I also feel the pull I cannot say honestly that There is this feeling within if this pull from the ego-mind just by staying in my pure awareness. And something within me is also questioning, as I'm still feeling this pull so strongly, am I truly within myself? Or is there something that I'm not getting, or somehow I'm not connecting, because I feel this pull [Mooji] Yes, [Q.] The pull from the ego-mind. [Mooji] Yes, and becoming more empty may take time, we should not be so impatient. The impatience can only serve in saying, 'I don't want to waste time'. A developing faith will come with that because, if you're eating the fruit, you must be benefiting You say about a relationship, I mean, I'm not asking anyone I mean, independent of that, You're not always stretching But in this, and it's not a visual look only. It comes automatically to be in the position And, gradually, not trying to cover the senses No, let them all be there, In their way, they will later become But while we have then it's as though they are working to fulfill vain projections, to try and fulfill our projections, based on such a limited realisation of ourself. You are coming back into yourself, clearly. If you say that the contemplation has really spoken to some place within you ... It is true, maybe you are not, to measure how clean they are, in a way. So, I say, don't worry about that. Just continue to observe, If I ask you to observe the world, The shapes are undending, But if I say, let it arise by itself, what arises in the mind feeling, or whatever comes through the senses. Let them just be there for a moment. Don't be trying to manipulate them. Rather just be aware, generally take a panoramic view as it arises within you. But remain conscious of yourself as being independent of At the same time I am saying, remain imageless. Don't go deep into that right now. Just stay with what the words invite, don't take shape for the moment. And you see that you are still here. The full force of your presence is still here. You don't need to hold on to a self-portrait to represent what you are, because the portraits will change. If every year every year, you're able to look through all of them and it's almost as though each one but you are like the cord that holds them. Your beingness is able to perceive, to be aware but they come and go. And you are the witness itself, that can verify, 'They come and go'. As a matter of fact, They come and go. And those that they seem to come back and they almost gradually join in the sense of yourself. Because you've given them permission, You've said that these are important, But when I ask you you don't need to hold on to anything at all. It is as though are like clouds floating along So the clouds are a part of the sky but you cannot say that the sky is a cloud. It's only an analogy, a kind of metaphor, pointing that you are the unchanging presence. In front of, or within whom, the changeful expressions Included in these cloud movements, I would include something that may surprise you, your sense of self, your personal identity, or egoic identity, is also a massive cloud. It's like a mafia cloud But it also is floating, You see? If you stay in the position, in the place of the formless nothing sticks, And the sky has no favourite clouds. It doesn't say, 'This one I Iike, you hold on, Everything is floating by. Whether clouds or rainbow everything, stars, But your sky of being is always here. So, when I invite you to just sit and be by yourself, not as a recluse, but that actually you are being very present And observing the different ebbs and flow your field of seeing, Everything is just coming and going. The important thing, I say, is keep remembering that you're only observing and your presence is held here. Don't combine yourself with anything And gradually something very beautiful If you don't ... as you begin to pay attention to the thoughts, it's as though you take identity with them, you become involved in them through the small aperture of personhood. And you lose, in a sense, your conscious contact This is the same for everyone. [Mooji] This is not a 21st century discovery, it is as ancient as human being, So that's all I am asking. And what you're seeking, 'But I don't know, perhaps, how strong the mind will take me', Actually, I am pointing out that, you're referring to yourself not as the beingness. And as you continue each time, sometimes you will and at those times you'll feel, you need to control something, change something, get somewhere, you're in the traffic, But when you stay back all these are floating by and you stay with it. Even if you feel, don't judge yourself, Watch the show passing. The whole world is like a passing show And gradually you begin to feel Which ... It resonates like peace, like a solid peace. A well-beingness. Joy. Silent. Content. Happy. [Mooji] Not happy about, [Mooji] Happiness is your nature like that. [Mooji] So if you follow this, it's like this, this, this, Just be consistent with it another technique and another technique, You trust that because you feel, But now I am showing you a space You are sitting here. And sometimes I say, just be with this. that is very peaceful, you are alone and you are content. You are sitting inside your own presence. [Mooji] In front of you is a window [Mooji] and through this window Through this window, Friends, family, jobs, past and present, the activities are happening there, but you are quietly just watching, but conscious, not being bored. You are simultaneously watching But don't log into the picture. Don't go, Just stay put, even though These are the ones and pull you into personhood. But stay shapeless and observe. Because it is worth it, to receive the greater gift OK? [Mooji] You may speak on, it's OK. [Q.] There's something I also feel that I truly feel, is that the more and more actually, the more things are just [Mooji] Yes. [Q.] I don't feel that I don't feel I have to act on anything but still I have that actually is even more beautiful now, the more and more I am staying And the same with my duties, that I still feel that I am doing, but I'm doing them in a way where Same with my relationships, I am so grateful and I feel so much love now because I'm staying in the observing state, I don't feel I'm depending on them. I think that realisation for me [Mooji] What a powerful sharing! This is not just, Yes, maybe an opportunity for so many to listen. I like to stop for a moment That's so powerful! That since you have been giving attention and being aware without interfering, without going to the mind or going to the past, your life in all of its expression Because sometimes when we hear, something may panic and go, otherwise I am going to be missing something'. This is a common trap for many people. So you are saying, which implies a kind of stillness, It may seem to be a very passive state, whereas the mind is excited to move on, to collect more adventures, to step into more activity, But you have quietly The more you say you've done that, everything is automatically improving. It's not that you are lazy, 'Oh, I sit here In a way it is true, [Mooji] but not excluding you as your being. [M.] In fact, the world you see and the quality of your consciousness. Because you are more at peace, it gets infused in the world that you see. So you are also sharing, You keep using the word 'relationship', I think it's a very important thing for you, but actually we have relationship not just personal one-to-one relationships. And you find that without trying to control, to get a better angle, because you are inside your stillness. Stillness doesn't mean tightness. No, but something is relaxed and peaceful. So the world can come, it can appear, This is very important to pick up on that. And I would just encourage, I wanted to share what I am hearing Because often beautiful things come, wise sharing comes to us Because the more active personal interest, you know, gets over there, But here in satsang, your opportunity, you have chosen to come, to sit here and to be listening and to listen to your own heart and being, So this is a beautiful sharing, for those who are open to it. [M.] Because it's the same way, [M.] in whatever way your life manifests, [M.] the same fundamental principle is working, [M.] just like Moa is sharing right now. Very, very good. Is it true that you are Ramdev's sister? [Q.] Yes, that is true as well. [M.] Someone has just flicked up on the screen, [Q.] Yes, yes. [M.] It doesn't matter to what you are sharing because everyone loves him here. [Q.] For me now the relationship This has transformed into something else [Mooji] Yes, also your spontaneous contacts is the way that you relate. You are relating. And what you impart if it comes through the mind, But gradually in your stillness, shines from you. It is wonderful, thank you. [Q.] Thank you so much. I am so grateful for what we can share together. [Q.] Love you all. Love you. [Mooji] Thank you, thank you. OK, very good, very good. Very good, very good. Copyright 2023 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express consent.