Up until last week, we didn't know much about know that the DLC entrance is here in Mohgwyn it could be important to understand the the hands of Mohg. So let's dive in. As the age between Queen Marika and Lord Godfrey. Godfrey one of the oldest demigods alongside his siblings twins. Born together and born as Omen, placing who was the golden child, so to speak. Omen, considered to be cursed. But what are the Omen? But I think The Omen are born by chance, sprouting primordial crucible. So what is the crucible? The before the Erdtree and its energies are actually was this blending of many creatures, physiological horn. What's truly noteworthy about these aspects creatures that weren't supposed to have them. For follower in the Lands Between. And there's a which I think are not unlike the horns of the to sprout on a beast that typically bears no crucible.&quot; According to the Crucible talismans. were once considered signifiers of the divine. And from the crucible which did become the Erdtree. So during this time that we have to assume that the were knighted, serving Lord Godfrey and fighting tail, breath and even wing. But fast forward to scattered all over the Lands Between fighting for because Queen Marika's Golden Order abandoned the strength shown by these knights and even their having such close resemblance to chaos.&quot; This where things were moving away from chaos and fundamentalism instead, as the age of the Erdtree All things considered. Take these creatures, for having aspects of the crucible at birth. But instead. A word that really sends the vibe that bearing ill gotten gains. The misbegotten the Spirit Ashes of Perfumer Tricia, who was misbegotten and The Omen as well. The Omen and the them suffered these grievous wounds as a result for these wounds in particular were the Omen full authority to hunt the Omen and amputate the off omen horns would have begun because horns are their link to the primordial crucible, which is omen do bear more aspects of the crucible than Misbegotten and Morgott might as well, though the Morgott has a tale just like The Crucible Knights. definitely the horns. That and their brute distinct from the Misbegotten, but still by directly from the Erdtree's royal line, two of the the Regal Omen Bairn. The word bairn means child, were fashioned to memorialize Omen children who description reads &quot;Omen babies have all their that survive live alongside those memorialized born of royalty do not have their horns excised, to anyone imprisoned for eternity.&quot; So some misbegotten. Two Omen children Mohg and Morgott So the royal omens weren't mutilated as long sight. And speaking of sight, a horn seems to be as it has grown relentlessly into his eye socket. characters in Elden Ring and in other Fromsoftware ironically able to see what sighted folk cannot. prophets who accurately foresaw the Flame of Ruin their eyes gouged by thorns, who glimpsed an Outer So I guess coincidentally or not, Mohg, half before an Outer God of his own as well, and he met the Formless Mother and the Mother of Truth, a had abandoned him we've talked about outer gods cosmic Lovecraftian entities that are at once in how they could influence events in the Lands they will often commune through envoys or her subject of communion, one of them at least, Mohg's meeting with this outer god. It reads stood before her deep underground, his accursed the defilement that he was born into.&quot; The text incantation. You &quot;thrust your arm into the body of to set the area ablaze.&quot; So there's a lot to break with the fact that this outer god is at once both what exactly do these titles mean? Let's start that title is easier to rationalize. She is likely And incidentally, the word formless is also used Ring, which is also made of blood. But let's cast extremely relevant parallel to the Formless Mother is also an outer god of sorts. The Oedon Caryll formless great one&quot; Oedon. And while I absolutely Ring are separate, I'm confident that Fromsoftware Elden Ring. So it is that I'm confident that blood said, the Formless Mother still has a body of it when we cast Bloodboon and when we rip our arms Thus, while I think the Formless Mother absolutely is more accurately blood flame. And she's not the God has giants flame. Death has black flame you could even theorize that the Greater Will of the Elden Beast and Placidusax. So flame is I think the Formless Mother is no different with on those afflicted long after it touches their Mother of Truth, and this title is a lot harder to only character that we know of that the Mother kind of forced to judge her character through Mother of Truth venerates the absolute truth, a through Mohg is at least a little bit telling. We and I think this preference for accursed blood I think she might prefer to act through those who and I say unfairly cursed because that's kind Curses are always the domain of the gods, and Take Dark Souls, for example, where Gwyn, a opting instead to curse humanity with undeath. turns to ash. Pretty over the top, right? And that she's a God who arrogantly thinks her order to try and preserve it. Her hubris is alluded to which states that &quot;the current imperfection of can be blamed upon the fickleness of the gods no led to the scorn of the Crucible and I think the more unfair for the Omen. Their curse appears Omen Bairn description conflates these two things who pleads &quot;Please don't hate me, or curse me. unfair is explored further in the Dung Eaters defiling others and spreading the Omen curse. He if he defiles everyone, in the end everyone will in his ending, a sort of cursed justice is consistent theme where characters turn their Eater and Mohg are perfect examples of that. Mother of Truth might bestow power upon the of the gods are unfairly given. There should be Right? It's just this genetic trait, a vestige considered divine. But thanks to the Golden Order, So I'd like to argue that this unfairness is why blood. But of course, this is just my theory, and think challenging each other respectfully is how I saw arguments ages ago that stated that the the Omen. But I'd like to challenge that idea. I'm that Mohg first stood before the Formless Mother was already banished here for being omen. So he more, when he did stand before her, it's stated his blood was already accursed when it erupted the defilement that he was born into. Thus, he born to be shunned in a wretched mire underground. that the Formless Mother created The Omen. And Mohg's brother, also has blood flame attacks just blood flame is therefore synonymous with having that's not true because only Mohg and Morgott clear Mohg's was set ablaze in item descriptions, blood by recanting it. But no other omen fight this blood flame from the Formless Mother. I think but Morgott as well, even though that's never this power and Morgott spurned it. Indeed, Morgott as a last resort. Morgott's blood flame became a used by Morgott, The Omen King. The accursed reformed into this blade.&quot; For him to have this was approached by the Formless Mother. It was assumedly sealed in the same place after all. set aflame. I think the Mother of Truth, to influence a demigod. And I think they failed both Mohg and Morgott weaponised their trauma. for example, which you &quot;throw at enemies to douse to assail them with a rabid fervor.&quot; A childhood that Mohg remembers being attacked for his blood specifically motivates spirits to attack. being haunted by evil spirits. According to the their nightmares. So with this cursed blood pot The Mother of Truth craves wounds. She desires Everything to do with her is designed to let the are quite simple. But does she want more? Where beyond specifically wanting to empower the Mother of Truth doesn't seem to want much. Take &quot;instrument of communion with an outer God.&quot; And coating the blade in her blood flame. That's it. spear is a design that will come to symbolize his Dynasty. The Formless Mother might enable this, dynasty, But she's not the face of it. So the most Yes, but she's not interested in being this god an outer god, actually. Instead, it's Mohg's Mohg's ambition that led him to leave the sewers the shackles that bound him here. This battle an omen illusion, not unlike the fight that you ability to conjure illusions. We can sort of infer illusions. Morgott uses his illusion to hinder but it's kind of hard to understand why Mohg's true location is a bit of a mystery, so maybe he scent and sort of pretend that he was still in the to the Frenzied flame because his brother Morgott this illusion of Mohg might even be conjured up to erupt into golden particles when it's defeated. Nearby you can find an Omen Shackle. These And indeed, Mohg has long escaped the sewers. And But he's here somewhere underneath the land of in the ruins of an ancient civilization, which dynasty. This place is drenched in blood, swarming itself is awash with the Formless Mother's blood Mohgwyn Palace reads &quot;In the lightless depths lies Mohg, The Lord of Blood, is building his palace to So this ancient civilization existed long before isn't given a name, but everything here should evokes the one found in Siofra. The statues depict Uhl. These are the remains of an ancient dynasty Mohg has very intentionally started to build his his rule a dynasty is intentionally evocative of dynasty because of the Oracle bubbles, which priests in the ancient dynasty. The description oracles within their bubbles. and theres a whole deep into this for now. Especially since their at all. Because I don't think Mohg is intent on item descriptions stress that his is a new dynasty he does use, like the architectural remains of the he speaks, I feel he might be trying to evoke how widespread the old dynasty was. And I think he something it sorely lacks at the moment. Mohg's Swarm of Flies Incantation sums it up well and in a swamp of festering blood.&quot; These flies can be directly linked to Mohg's own power. But aside the blood tainted excrement that you can loot in eggs of unknown but assuredly revolting origin.&quot; found in waste feed on blood and turn into vicious inflicts countless lacerations on the victim their sanity.&quot; And specifically, these flies of which there are now many in the new dynasty, even tougher than their kin on the surface. disenfranchised beings still seem to choose to Which brings us to the Albinaurics here. In a way, Not unlike The Omen. The Albinauric Bloodclot hands. Thus many believe them to live impure this is just my own speculation, but we know that blood. So do you think maybe it's fitting that of of the Albinaurics have found a way to weaponize blood quite well. The Red Albinaurics stand apart the cliff face. The red ones patrol the area and every other Albinauric in the game. Even their red. Look at their heads and you'll see these I believe this is because they've been soaking in by Mohgs omen blood. We know from the seedbed it's possible to spread omen horns, or at least be spread. So I think that explains why they're that reveals Mohg was attempting to share his and the war surgeons who were abducted by Mohg, blood as you enter the Mohgwyn Palace Grounds. the other. These are the nameless White Masks and White Masks wear the War Surgeon Gown, which marks killers. The dagger talisman elaborates, stating aid of friend and foe alike, by dealing a final agony of a mortal wound.&quot; So their name is surgery occurring here that could save someone's a dagger with a name that translates to mercy. And in white. medicine is mercy, and mercy upon the is found in a storage quarter of Stormveil and the of difficult to say which faction they served, if friend and foe, so they were probably a common regardless of their allegiance. Their choice white is the color of truce, which is appropriate incidentally, I think white also shows bloodstains was chosen as well. These characters definitely mercy, but constantly delivering mercy would talisman ends with the line, &quot;a sense of mercy warns one, to &quot;beware the killers clothed as men developed this taste for blood, and it was being targeted and abducted by Mohg. The war abducted by the Lord of Blood. None were able to though he was an exception&quot; therefore the war you in Mohgwyn Palace, ended up here because of Blood. This reveals that Mohg was searching accursed blood that he had been graced with. his accursed blood with others and considering it seems clear that they were happy on some their bloodlust. Though only one of their number Mohg desired. And that's Varre. But what does that earlier we speculated that the Albinaurics are in blood, but in Mohg's accursed omen blood. And that Mohg is trying to find worthy recipients the phrase tame the accursed blood, the original accept the accursed blood. Which brings me to this and you accept what is assumedly Mohg's noble be an immutable badge of honor. Once it settles something.&quot; The bloody finger item, which is your been siphoned into the nail of this finger. Its still aches with the sweetest pain. &quot;Never forget to luminary Mohg. to all of us.&quot; And with a fresh invade other tarnished and sate your bloodlust just like Mohg does. But that's not the only way blood. You can also do so with a festering bloody your finger This time. And three of them are given of sorts. &quot;I have a gift for you. Something fit draw of the Two Fingers. Give it a try, won't fuel a blood lust of your own, thereby distracting other plans for you as a tarnished. And you'll be inducted into the order and you'll have war surgeons once received. &quot;I knew it from the opposed to the bloody finger. You can receive blackened with blood congestion. And if you look writhing at the end, reinforcing the idea again, injected into these fingers before they were cut festering fingers &quot;have been chopped off rather a measure of disappointment with the owner of these fingers once belonged to other inductees. to accept the infusion of Mohg's blood. Note &quot;you will die nameless without ceremony.&quot; So the fingers were unceremoniously chopped off It seems. you listen to Varre's speech, which is enticing Despite this harsh treatment of his subjects, to Varre at least. And one of the key differences laments that the Two Fingers have no love for the the Tarnished are kind of related to Mohg via So I guess it is true that we are at least And indeed amongst all the war surgeons, Varre is bloodflame blade. The spell that coats his weapon Mother. Varre has been granted strength beyond any Varre is no doubt eventually very disappointed in the new dynasty has even begun. This is what leads death. &quot;Oh... Luminary Mohg Please grant the you can teleport to Mohgwyn Palace early with the gives you If you prove yourself to him. &quot;I've you mustn't use it just yet. The meeting must wait yet slumbers beside the divinity.&quot; Now that Luminary Vision and can learn how Mohgwyn Dynasty exultation Talisman explains Reading &quot;Render up consort's chamber. slake his cocoons thirst. His So he's specifically saying that others should he's telling to make the offerings would be his we might just be making offerings of others. And sanguine nobles who are just as aggressive as the open world. for example, this is one of many Rose Church in Liurnia. It's likely named after to all things bloody. And the building itself is a foreign land. And it's no coincidence that it's the enemy inside the church is supposedly a their recruiting techniques. The sanguine noble Blood&quot; and Reeds, &quot;known to strike from pools of share the gospel of accursed blood.&quot; just like started to grow omen horns, and their rank can be inferred by the Noble in Mohgwyn Palace, rather than being true omen, I think this is accursed blood has led to their horns growing a robes go on to read &quot;The grand metallic pattern on intend to claim upon the advent of the new dynasty are designed to &quot;rip the flesh with sickening to install this new dynasty via the blood loss of And again, I think the bloody fingers are the same in thrall by excess blood zealots who stalk their end is nigh for you.&quot; Yura is familiar with many who is the one he loves. And she's the one who of all. I'm dying to see &quot;Eleanora violent bloody here at the Second Church of Marika. And this church of Marika, there's clearly been an attempt roses, the sanguine noble who appears here, the Eleanora herself. Eleanora is one of Mohg's bloody to be believed. Perhaps it's for this reason that crystal tear an item that can nullify the effect she has somehow procured this purifying crystal You could definitely speculate in that direction a twin Naginata a weapon that's forged in the land that has become alienated from the culture of the entire nation has succumbed to blood soaked to return to the description of formless Oedon &quot;both Oedon and Oedon's inadvertent worshippers we established that Oedon and the Formless that this overlap could extend to Oedon's means unintentional or accidental worship, In Mother might have many, many children because I inadvertent worshippers of her own. After all, has led more than one of their number directly swordsman. His blood lust led him into combat with stating, When Mohg, the Lord of Blood, first he had a proposal to offer Okina the life of a was that Okina became a bloody finger of Mohg, a cursed sword which has felled countless men. with the Lord of Blood's exaltation Talisman, triggered in the vicinity. And one amazing little gets the attack power buff whenever there's blood the Lord of Blood's Exaltation talisman and that he uses, Bloody Slash, also suggests as much, as Blood.&quot; So it seems this Stormveil captain has or he has a dual allegiance. I love that it's itself is dropped by Esgar, a priest of blood place where Mohg first met the Mother of Truth. for his great hood, which reads &quot;a burial shroud truth they sought.&quot; I think this could be hinting but it's hard to say for sure. Speaking of which, he communes with the Formless Mother at all. Most bloodshed for the sake of bloodshed seems reason Perhaps it's for this reason that the all-knowing &quot;so-called Lord of Blood.&quot; &quot;so that's where the Perhaps this lack of clarity about Mohg's rule Who is &quot;the reigning and high rank of the coming After all, can blood offerings really lead to the Blood Lord Does state that &quot;no matter how he received no response from the young Empyrean.&quot; doesn't just want to be a ruler. He wants Miquella is an Empyrean eligible to be the God that might match even the Golden Order, which is God at the forefront. So it's time to finally then it's very likely that this will lead to nightmares that may bring whatever nightmares especially considering Miquella has a dreaming other characters in the game, Miquella has a Miquella, the unalloyed who helped his sister a home for the low and the meek, and who is cursed Miquella is also Saint Trina, a mysterious and dreams. The symbol of their faith is this agitation.&quot; And it's no coincidence that this the nascent Miquella is saint Trina, or they're And whatever Saint Trina has been doing, it's people. The Lands Between is a pretty harrowing some people have turned to Saint Trina whose of Saint Trina also exist crafting sleep arrows of sleep can become quite the habit.&quot; Another such or a quagmire. Its light purple haze irresistibly Incidentally, the word lullaby brings to mind Where the red-eyed merchants were once taught the figure and fittingly, Saint Trina's full cut name them to the merchant's song. In cut Merchant them now sings no longer. The singer is missing, was Saint Trina. And we don't really have to just item called Fervor's Cookbook suggests that Saint crafting techniques left by a man who was utterly for her in his slumber.&quot; So he was searching Saint Trina's Sword reads &quot;Saint Trina is an girl. Others are sure he a boy. The only certainty disappearance.&quot; So Saint Trina went missing and character called Rhico, a cut NPC who claims to be Miquella's body at Mohg's palace. Here, Rhico No, Lord Miquella's cadaver. I have partaken O Lord. So, please, I hope you welcome your humble heart.&quot; So Rico believed that he was finally going that he'd found him in the physical world before Yeah, I reckon the DLC will take us to Miquella's DLC, right? But now with the recent trailer, featured in my DLC video make it quite clear to the Land of Shadow, a place that was once it was veiled and obscured by Queen Marika. of Shadow might be a place where the dead go. We or at least it might have once been a sort of that role. We reason this because Miquella is there. The poem reads, &quot;It was to this land that his strength, his lineage of all things golden.&quot; the Land of Shadow, but it is kind of fitting to arrive in this place. Because death in Elden when Rogier succumbs to deathroot. He says this. into a deep fathomless slumber and I have an Rogier is almost hinting that he might be a kind of right, because later we do find Rogier or weaponized by Fia. We do this inside of Godwyn's connotations as well. So I wonder, with death planned this death in his own slumber so that he evidence for Miquella's death being a sort which is an owl egg that will never hatch. Prized is this powerful parallel to the situation with by Mohg before it was ready to hatch. Just so this taken before it was ready to hatch, perhaps before never hatch. It's essentially dead. And this of death is the most sublime slumber There is. So the slumbering egg and Miquella's Cocoon, touching us to the Land of Shadow, where Miquella traveled Miyazaki states that players will be following followed the blessings of the sites of Greece in not the only who is curious about Miquella. There who have been following Miquella as well, and the Land of Shadow. And they will make new friends and many followers. So does Saint Trina. And while no to, it is rumored. Gideon's dialogue reveals that And there's even a phantom in the consecrated snow And they died knowing exactly who took Miquella that cut content character who senses their master seem to live on beyond the death of their flesh. be the dream world that many expected it to be, has been felt here. For example. This is Saint right? It only has a tiny hint of purple left. background be a true lily of Saint Trina. It does of quagmire of sleep here. There's that signature who is slumbering in this place. Incidentally, spy some lilies in the background of this fight as But I digress. Miquella's actions are becoming up. How did Mohg manage to abduct Miquella? Well, surgeons, presumably to test the accursed blood of abduction. And if he can materialize from like his sanguine nobles and bloody fingers seem abducting Miquella was relatively easy for him, the time. So during Miquella's abduction, he was gap here in the tree like woman's form, almost indeed Miquella sits atop a giant pelvis bone in ripped from the Haligtree itself. The Mother of happened. But why? Why did Mohg think abducting for that one. Mohg believed Miquella could have Miquella believed that he could. And I think Mohg advantage of the new god that would soon rise. The raise Miquella to full godhood, Mohg wished to But no matter how much of his bloody bedchamber the young Empyrean.&quot; The wording of Bedchamber is with Miquella and become his Lord, So to speak. too. As items state that Mohg slumbers beside the that Mohg slumbers inside of Miquella's blood. slumber here. &quot;Dearest Miquella, you must abide then Mohg will become a lord of sorts. Not unlike throughout history, where they become consort to how exactly does Miquella become a god in this in the womb of this giant tree like woman, it's sort of rebirth. Here And this brings me back to Indeed, I beg you, Grant my wish, that when you by your side. I wonder what if the cocoon was Berserk which Miyazaki is endlessly inspired by. a certain character here also achieves a similar god of sorts. To become a part of the Godhand in to make a sacrifice, and in the end he chooses to their fate. In my Miquella video, we draw a and if Miquella is inspired by Griffith as much as there is a part of Malenia's storyline as well come, although that is of course just speculation. fact that Miquella does have some very ominous Saint Trina has an adult form and it's a one eyed that is carved upon Saint Trina's torch. What's others down into sleep against their will. Sleep clear, as does cut content, which states The Saint lost repose and the feeble of heart were Powerless So in cut content, at least, the Saint of the with kindness. So that description mentions Saint from the trailer. &quot;Pure and radiant, he wields is nothing more terrifying.&quot; Malenia also calls lastly, the common soldiers of the Haligtree Lord's return to the Haligtree. They discovered to self-destruct in their final moments. But the flesh of our deaths guide Miquella's return. a bit concerned about this scary dreaming demigod by Mohg's ritual with him inside the cocoon. A supposed to be a part of Miquella's ascension to Palace, that would fit because a few gods we see sorts. Malenia has the Outer God of Rot, and she becomes a vessel for the Elden ring, and she certainly an outer god as well. So all of that as best we can. Considering how abstract the game did Miquella foresee any of this happening? The foe and turn them into a temporary ally. And it people. Indeed, he has learned very well how to of sinister, right? The fact that Miquella is order to get what he wants is very manipulative. affections. Who's to say he hasn't done the same very obvious and very cursed, Considering Miquella is technically Mohg's half brother. from Berserk, where Griffith spends a night with a needs to achieve his own goals. The man, Gennon, Gennon is nothing more than a stone lying on eventually discards him as such. In my Miquella there is between the characters of Miquella and that Miquella might be using Mohg here. But if gain from masterminding this entire situation DLC trailer dropped I had imagined that Miquella's so I thought that Miquella might stand to benefit slumbering form. I thought he might have even been into a god. But now, from what we understand about distinct from Miquella. So the answer becomes his flesh and grace to get here, so it's harder Mohgwyn are having any effect on Miquella's self. Miquella. For good reason. So I'm going to present being here. Based on the information we have Miquella divested himself of his flesh before that he also divested himself of his grace To of all things golden. Divesting yourself of your your grace is also difficult. Ranni has difficulty of her flesh finally. But even then, she's still be freed completely. So what if Mohg instrumental but the process of Miquella losing his grace as Miquella was defiled to the point that Grace left accursed blood start to grow Omen horns and the is something that many people in the Lands Between earlier about how they defiled people and how them And their rebirth. So it is that I think that to fall into this state of sublime slumber and him. But that's just a theory. And of course, yet. And I think it's impossible to say for sure state of speculation is very much exactly where the all-knowing doesn't know what's going on here. That is some fine intelligence. Indeed. While I within the cocoon, all will be well. But perhaps one thing that remains a mystery to me.&quot; So, what from the Haligtree? Will he be affected certainly believes so. In fact, Mohg believes &quot;I can see it as clear as day. The coming of a a little story about a game that was scheduled A souls like title inspired by Italian folklore vibe. For example, this is Quinta, the game's Engine five here. I love the verticality in these design they can play with there. And I was very then Elden Ring announced its DLC for the same heard they're announcing a new release date soon. unless it's something I've played and loved, but what I had to say here, I decided to take this product to speak for itself and I think that kind mentions huge skill trees, spells buffs, passives which are at the center point of each loadout. time getting the motion capture for animations thing for a soulslike for me. And the gameplay Parries, which reminds me a lot of Sekiro, consider following some of their pages or even the last song slash preorder Or you can click