As a minimalist, I love living in a simple, it. Decluttering is not always easy. It is very we just get decision fatigue. Because we have to or get rid of. And if we do decide to get rid of Do we donate it? How can we recycle something in be challenging. But after having done a number of around 60% of my stuff, I have learned a thing process easier and faster. So in today's to declutter better and faster. To help you make a pro. Before we begin, I quickly want to thank a long-term supporter of the channel. Skillshare on basically anything. From hobbies like cooking To career focused classes like starting an online decluttering and digital decluttering. So for to learn, Skillshare always had helpful classes to build my website. How to start making digital journaling, self-care, and just so much more. I something new so much more accessible we're thinking of maybe something that we would to look up a class somewhere and we actually it's so easy to make it happen. So instead of try painting watercolors one day, you could watch Jenny Flores called Watercolor for beginners, five exactly which supplies you need. And by the end of forget me nots and more. The first 500 people to month free trial. So you can watch as many classes That's a good deal in my opinion. So huge thank So the first step that I would always recommend is I mean actual trash, things that belong in the fruit. The items that you already know you want I suggest doing it like this. The first is that motivation. It is so encouraging because it is results. And that really motivates you to keep think about it too much. So when it comes to these in a trash or they're just things that you already with holes in them, or items that you really don't bothered by them for a while. It is just so nice having to think about it. Because you've already broken. And the third reason why I think this is lot less messy. So when it comes to decluttering, suggest taking everything out. Now, this is you own, because then your house is going to wardrobe. Or not even fully your wardrobe, but a lot of different dresses and you want to kind of don't want to keep. Then I would always recommend in a big pile somewhere, probably on the bed or that it helps you to see how much you actually a lot more and we're kind of shocked by how many helps us to make better decisions. Because you can you can see that if you pull out all your dresses, them are a certain style. Like a certain color I really have a lot of those. So maybe I want helps it if you know exactly how many you have. to how many you would like to declutter or how taking everything out is that things get messy. So if you always remove the trash and the easy that already helps with the mess. Because it to take out. So in this case with the dresses, you have been thinking about for a while, and you those out first. You don't have to put them onto dresses that you really don't fit anymore, or that not in good condition anymore. Things like that the rest and deal with it. It's just a way to it's just super super motivating and it's Number two is a little rule that you can have for process along and speed it up a little. It's for holding on to an item, then you have to get when decluttering. And I have experienced that reasons. Maybe we feel bad because we've spent because it was was a gift. Or because it used to is a stuffed animal, and it has a face. And it Which is what I experienced a lot. There can be so something. And I'm not saying that these reasons the only thing that you don't want to declutter that's not enough. There needs to be at least one there needs to be at least one more reason. Like handy in this and this occasion. Like be realistic one day. Like there needs to be at least something when there is not and you feel guilty, try getting why you are doing this in the first place. Declutter your home? Or have fewer things in your make you a happier, calmer person in your own these guilty feelings and remind yourself of add one thing is that it is very common, and I see guilty about decluttering something because you environmental waste. Which I totally understand. so I do want to acknowledge that. But again, if something, it just doesn't make sense. Because you by someone sometime. So you keeping that item in it to contribute to waste is not really changing sometime, even if you keep it all your life. it will have made you miserable in the meantime. but it is the reality. So try to use that feeling environmental waste and instead, turn that into that in mind the next time you buy something. the impact of that one thing. But then if you take maybe it will keep you from buying a 100 things later. And that impact is much bigger. So just try to learn from it and make better will have a much bigger impact. And so there's no a really handy trick that I use all the time when that you own a lot of. So let's take a practical linens. Like so many different ones and you really becomes more simplified. Then one way to go about them all one space and go through them one by and which ones not. But sometimes can be like one of them stands out in a positive or oh yeah, this one I really don't want I definitely do want to keep. And so you're just I don't really know which ones I want to keep. closet. So in this case, I would always recommend So in the bed linen case, let's say okay, for us gives you then a starting point. And then you can your all-time favorite ones. Like if you could that really forces you to choose your favorites. because maybe there's like nothing wrong with Or too many. And then you can donate the others. Back when we my boyfriend and I moved out of our a little decor buying spree. And I bought so much overwhelmed by it all. And I still liked each like decide like okay, this one yes, this one no. So I'm allowed to have... I don't remember the number that forces you to pick your 12 favorites. I put kind of spark some kind of variety or interest. I really loved it. And then all of the ones that donated them. All right. Number four is also a pile. It is also a little rule that I have for but I have to actually use those items for a say that you know you cannot have a maybe pile. So it has to be either yes or no. And I personally the maybe pile. And the reason for that is that it in that huge mountain of stuff that we pulled out, just holding it in our hands. And we're looking because we don't know what to do. And before you have not like gotten any decluttering done. item. And this is where the maybe pile comes in. know what to do with this one, okay, it goes on process because you're not getting stuck on any maybe pile sometime later. But what often happens is that it does postpone us taking decisions. And And next time we declutter, we come across them nothing ever really gets done about them. So that the maybe items. So if it is a clothing item, wear know by the end of that day if you want to keep it reached for this because it's super uncomfortable. this. Or maybe you're like oh, I can combine this that I hadn't considered yet. And now it looks You know? Actually wearing the thing will tell anything. Whether it's a kitchen appliance. If mixer or something. Like make a recipe with that that can really help you to make a decision about and that is to keep it small and manageable. It it comes to decluttering. And I really feel that mindset. That can keep us from beginning in the entire garage and have it all like organized do that. But it is a huge project and you don't I would like to declutter the garage one day. But off. And you postpone it, you put it off. But the You can take 10 minutes, 15 minutes. Just pull out want to keep. Get rid of them. That's like 10 And if you do that again and again and again, you have to do it all at once. Maybe do one drawer in break it down, make it small and manageable, to And another really important one. If you're really not only starting small, but starting easy. So decisions. For me, that is the bathroom. I love feels so satisfying. Just getting rid of expired want to give them to someone else. Kind of start hard to make decisions. Just kind of yeah get the up the skill to then also later be able to deal the last bit that I want to say in this category small and manageable also means that you don't organizing definitely comes after decluttering. thing. And they are great. But you don't have to makes it a lot more time consuming and difficult the act of decluttering. And what is decluttering? that don't attribute to your happiness to that's decluttering. And you don't have to yet That comes after. Number six is a super helpful that really has helped me to make a lot lot of regret, I might add. And that is to ask yourself: would I care? Like would I care enough to spend out and to save the item? Or perhaps would you item is ruined. There's wine on it. It's not my lot. So sometimes with decluttering, I find but sometimes they just don't hold up. There's in words. It's just a feeling that we have about find underneath all the yeah, but it costs money. the rational arguments. We still feel something hone in on that feeling. It's kind of be like, wasn't my fault? If you would feel sad, if you whatever like bring it to the dry cleaning, like then that is a really good indication that this I would recommend keeping it. But if you would that is a good indication that this could be to give the items that you do decide to keep a avoid something that they call clutter shuffling. because you're holding a lot of items in your feel like you're organizing, and getting things decluttering. You're basically just moving a lot slow down your progress. So this is very helpful. scissors in your home. And you wanted declutter like yeah, this one I use for this, this one I use rid of it. And you end up with four let's say four done yet. You want to also choose where you want sense, so a place where you actually use them most them. Like this is where they belong. It's easy it's not causing clutter. It's not unpractical that will prevent you from having to deal Because you already know next time like yeah, it lives here. You can let that just kind of stay. is that it helps you to actually simplify. Because something, and then you realize I don't actually find a home for them. You're like actually, it here. It's going to have to be annoying to have to maybe not keep four teapots, but get rid of like I don't really have space for this. So it is just your home just a little bit more simplified in the and that is to just declutter as you go. And mindset that many people have, and that I myself say a wardrobe. Like that feels like such a a huge a capsule wardrobe. And have it make like perfect and have it be perfectly organized. And that feels to start. I don't know how to do it. So then, your wardrobe. Whereas if you're wearing a blouse, not feeling it's like yeah, this one is done. I've Or maybe you're like yeah I just I don't feel whatever it is. Then don't hang it back. Declutter doing that consistently, maybe even having a can drop things easily, whenever you come across this. I don't want this. Doesn't bring me value. And once it's full, you can decide what to as soon as you realize you don't really want to declutter it immediately. Number nine is another easier for yourself to decide. And that is that if it has survived a decluttering round previously, then you have to make a decision about it it this and you were already on the fence about it then, candidate for the declutter pile. But at least it and actually start using it, or now it is a And here I would like to encourage you to keep in then it's a no. And I find that this doesn't time. Because if you're already hesitant about used it since the last time you were thinking Probably you don't need it. You don't like it. It that makes you feel like it's not a heck yes. And your your stuff. But most likely it's just going you do a decluttering round, you're again thinking all of these things again and again. It makes it So forcing yourself to make a decision about items a great way to kind of cut that cycle. And make it today is something that I would always recommend If you've decluttered something small, like your your home, whatever it is. You now have a pile, of. And here is where another one of those traps I'm done. I have this pile now. I've spent all to declutter. So I'm done. And then they leave causes clutter. And there's also the risk of you your family, and getting things back out again. do. So I would suggest to make sure that you're them out of your house as soon as possible. when you're decluttering, divide things up in if it's like really no other option. Maybe you just okay, this is something I want to get rid of. is something that you can sell or give away to course, try to be as responsible as you can. But categories. Not make that another huge project deal with this huge declutter pile. Try to make through them. I am actually guilty of this myself, what to do with. Like for example, we have a new I love by the way. I'm very happy with it. But I low quality, that we replaced. And it was 11 old. what to do with it, because how do you discard find it. So now, I have this set of old kitchen like. So I have to deal with that sometime. and life gets busy, and you you want to do other to learn from my mistakes and not fall into that I would love to hear your thoughts about these have something that really helped for you to make that in the comments with me and everyone else. I stuff is just stuff. That is 100% true. But if you that way, that is fine too. So minimalism is not It is about being very intentional and mindful life and which things don't. And trying to focus are the only one in the end who could make that making choices that feel right for you. I will or three weeks off. I am so looking forward to it. feel just kind of yeah, I'm ready to take a little about 3 weeks. Something like that. I do have a already I think like more than 110 videos up on time. So if in the meantime you want more content And I will be back on YouTube, feeling hopefully for you. I actually have quite a few really nice break, I'm like also actually excited to return. We're going to do some fun things. It's going to trips here and there. And hopefully the weather it. Don't forget to check out Skillshare and classes for free. Link in the description box. And below. Have a wonderful, wonderful day. And I will I've been building a house in The Sims 4. And to make a converted barn. Lhat like used to be a house. And I'm having so much fun with it. But