- Today, I'm gonna show you how to make, wait, what are we making? Oh yeah, oh yeah. Okay. (chuckles) I'm gonna show you how to make focaccia. This is so easy. (upbeat music) Hey everybody, It's Natasha and I'm gonna show you how to make a classic Italian focaccia. The texture of this is incredible. So crisp on the outside, and you don't have to wait overnight. This is quick to make, and wait until you see You're going to love it. And I want some bread, (counter thudding) (Natasha laughs) We'll start with one and and I like to have that between 110 to 115 degrees Fahrenheit. I'll leave a link to the Stir in one teaspoon of then add in one packet or Once the yeast is stirred in, let that sit and rest for or until you see a foamy This indicates that the yeast is good and it'll help jumpstart our recipe. We're using our favorite and I will leave a link Zero out your mixing bowl. And we're gonna get exactly or about 470 grams of all purpose flour. If you don't have a kitchen scale, make sure you measure correctly. Spoon the flour into a dry then scrape off the top. Now whisk in one and a Pour your yeast mixture into Use a mixing spoon to stir that together until the liquid is incorporated into the flour and you don't You should end up with Next, add one tablespoon of and use your hands to mix it in. Work the oil into the dough Now cover the top with plastic wrap and let it rest for 30 until it's visibly puffed. If you're working in a colder environment or want to speed up the process, try our microwave trick. Add a damp towel to the to heat it up, then turn it letting it rest. While the dough is proofing, I like to make the topping ahead of time, so the oil infuses with In a small mixing bowl, combine two tablespoons of of extra virgin olive oil, and we'll need about of finely chopped rosemary Simply pull the leaves off of the sprigs and finely chop them up. Also, finely mince and add Now thoroughly mix that topping together, until it's well incorporated. This topping makes the bread into a garlic rosemary But if you want to, you can water and salt for a simple topping. You can see the dough is visibly puffed and about double in size. To keep your hands from dip them in a bowl of cold water. Now to get that irresistible we need to develop the Gently pull the dough up on then fold it over onto itself. Rotate the bowl and repeat the process until you've done four stretch and folds. Pull up gently making sure not Now cover the bowl and for another 30 minutes. Repeat the stretch and fold making sure to cover and let between each time. We're gonna do the third set letting it rest for 30 minutes afterwards. After the fourth set of we're gonna transfer the dough right away to a well-oiled baking pan. I love using a 9 X 13 pan for focaccia because which works great for sandwiches. Add one fourth cup of to the bottom of a 9 X 13 pan. Now transfer the dough over the oil and turn it to coat the dough in oil. Gently stretch the dough to fit the pan. If you find it's difficult and it doesn't want to budge, for 15 minutes, then work the Once the dough is relaxed, Just be sure to gently stretch Once you've finished and it's about the size cover and let that proof or until it's visibly risen and puffy. Now to create those dip your hands into cold water, then press them directly into the dough press them in quickly and all the way through the dough. It'll look a little bit I like to go over the dough two or three to create plenty of dimples. Quickly whisk your in case it's separated, then evenly drizzle it over Now last but not least, sprinkle about a teaspoon of kosher salt over the top of your focaccia. Now bake in the center of a preheated oven at 450 degrees Fahrenheit, for 22 to 25 minutes or until I love to bake for 25 to form a great crisp edge. Once it's out of the oven, transfer it right away to a wire rack. You want to get it out of the pan so that the bottom doesn't get steamy, otherwise you'll lose that crispy crust. Now let it cool for at least five minutes before slicing into it. All right. Our bread is just a little bit warm still, and that's okay because I I want some of this. My kitchen smells so good right now. I'm just gonna go for it. Let's do this taste test. I want to show you what's inside. Check this out. Okay, here we go. Look at this. Get in close. Yes. (laughs) It is so tall and fluffy. Make this, and it'll become And thankfully, it's easy. I mean, you can get and start your bread and You don't have to wait overnight. That's the best part, seriously. Okay. And then, okay, so everything from the top to bottom. Look at this crisp crust. Listen to the crunch. (bread crunching) I'm excited. Okay. For obvious reasons, Okay, now you can serve I'm gonna show you that I'm gonna cut some pieces or you can use it as And this bread will make a It is marvelous, as my son would say. Still smells so good. So good. Okay, here we go. Just cut it into little squares here so we can get to this taste test faster. All right. Now it's time to serve this and that dip that I was telling you about. I learned this in an Italian restaurant and it's so easy and so good. And it also looks really fancy. So if you're throwing a Seriously. Okay, so all you need is some We're gonna put this in a shallow dish. Pour that into a little ramekin, followed by some balsamic vinegar and a crackle of fresh black pepper. All right, let's get And seriously, focaccia is Everything from the texture And then it has a ton of flavor. You can change this up and add Check out my notes and my But this has to be my favorite. All right, we're going in, I hope you try it with this sauce. It's so easy and super yummy. Okay and because there's already in this bread, it's It's just a perfect match Why not? Okay. Mm. This makes me so happy. Crispy crust. So soft. I mean, it's like melt in your mouth, cotton soft inside, and the top, you can really taste the I love that it's infused in the oil. So it just kind of penetrates This is a must try and my kids love this. So I'm gonna get my son David! Come on over. Taste test. Pick a piece, any piece. He went for the big one. Take a bite. Ooh. You hear the crunch? How is it? Good? Yeah. Like favorite ever? (Natasha chuckles) All right, we're gonna enjoy our bread. I hope you guys make this recipe today and the sauce and we'll Hey! Seriously. Honey, this is so good. Come and get some. - [Husband] I know, I know. - David, come on! - Back for more. - 'Kay, let me finish my bread. - More sauce? - Mm.