In January 2010, inspectors with the UN's strange at the nuclear facility in Natanz, Numerous centrifuges at the crown jewel of Centrifuges are devices that produce enriched weapons. The cause of their failure was a mystery. It's believed the U.S. and Israel ordered program. A computer worm called Stuxnet traveled on Windows computers that controlled the centrifuges, Stuxnet didn't simply take over a computer equipment to self-destruct! It's more dangerous than a computer virus. While a virus is dormant until the unwitting being activated. Stuxnet is believed to have been created by intelligence though neither has ever admitted Their collaborative effort was dubbed "Operation It started under the Bush administration. President Obama sped it up when he came into continue the cyberattacks. President Bush believed it was the only way strike on Iranian nuclear facilities - like in 2007. Israel has never bought Iran's argument for the purposes of generating electricity, Iran launched its nuclear program in the 1950s for Peace program in which America shared atomic energy for peaceful activities. In 1970, Iran ratified the Non-Proliferation use. It meant Iran would have to be subject to Agency (IAEA). Those inspectors with the IAEA noticed centrifuges Getting the worm into the Natanz facility planned attack. This is what is believed to have happened. The NSA and the Israeli military wrote a program Iran's Natanz plant. The program is introduced into a controller plant worker. The program collects information on how the The agencies use the data to design a complex Stuxnet is introduced into the plant's computer Stuxnet was designed to target computers with This program was used by industrial computers The worm takes over control of the centrifuges, They become unbalanced and in some cases, Centrifuges spin at supersonic speeds to separate Uranium enriched to 90% or more can be used According to the New York Times, the centrifuges Initially, the attacks were small and seemed code prompted different types of breakdowns By the spring of 2010, the NSA and Israel's to ramp up their attack to target 1,000 centrifuges. But the worm was discovered. That summer, a programming error sent the The laptop had reportedly been hooked up to The Stuxnet worm was replicated across the in India, Indonesia, and China. It's eventually tracked down and disassembled President Obama decided to continue the operation centrifuges - or about a fifth of those operating. There's been debate about how the worm actually According to one theory, Israel hired an Iranian with a corrupt memory stick. Another theory, according to security software computers at five outside companies connected to find its way to Natanz. Experts who analyzed the computer worm say anything they had ever seen. The attackers even secretly recorded what then played those readings back to plant operators as the centrifuges were tearing themselves Kind of like a pre-recorded security tape 11. The U.S. believes the attack set back Iran's Others believe this is an overestimation. Iran denied that its well-known struggles The country had always insisted its nuclear That is until a former head of Iran's nuclear involved "satellites, missiles, and nuclear Fereydoun Abbas-Davani spoke to state media Iranian nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh Currently, the Biden administration is trying nuclear work in return for relief from sanctions. It would see Iranian oil come back on the Russian oil. President Trump had exited the nuclear deal. Critics worry that Iran could develop nukes ends. The Stuxnet computer worm has vast repercussions Computer security experts have described Stuxnet Sean McGurk, a former cybersecurity official noted that the Stuxnet source code could be targets. During an interview with 60 Minutes, he said sophisticated cyberweapon: &quot;They opened the box. They demonstrated the capability...it's not In 2012, Iranian hackers are believed to have petroleum and natural gas company Saudi Aramco. They stole passwords, destroyed data, and computers. A document leaked by Edward Snowden and provided had "demonstrated a clear ability to learn Strengthening the fears of the U.S. intelligence cyberattacks. It takes a small team to make videos here It's really important for me to not stress as possible. For the past few months, I've been taking Breakthrough with my dinner every day to help to sleep well. And ever since, I've noticed that my sleep wake up in the middle of the night. Besides getting better sleep, my sponsor BiOptimizers Most magnesium supplements fail because they're Whereas Magnesium Breakthrough contains all truly needed to regulate the body. To try the powerful effects of magnesium for to get a 10% discount. Be sure to use the promo code: Newsthink10 You can click my custom link in the description Thanks for watching. For Newsthink, I'm Cindy Pom