Namibia endless landscapes never-ending roads fascinating wildlife unlimited freedom this is namibia Join us on our camping road trip After arriving in Windhoek and we head north about an hour The farm has four campsites. All come with You can enjoy a cozy pool too. The sights There are various activities beginning from a The farm is home to 14 different species of game The next day we drove to the Anderson gate The camp itself is huge and can If you're not into camping this and every has rooms or chalets too if you prefer this option There's a shared bathroom which is a The camp is famous for its waterhole which and from the balcony of some chalets and since a game drive until sunset or early in the See our detailed video about this or any following place at the link on the card above or in the description below. The second night in Etosha we spent at the which is located in the far east of the park and very close to several waterholes where you can watch the wildlife perfectly . The camp is situated in an old fort and all sites It has pretty the same facilities as other camps like power and Namutoni is a bit smaller and older than other camps in Etosha After spending two days in Etosha we decided to head south again to Okonjima game reserve. They have four campsites which are really huge and a fireplace and power. They even provide firewood for The walk to the bathroom is very scenic through the nature. The reserve has several fences and the campsite is inside one of them. So if you're lucky you can spot some small antelopes at the campsite or during your shower with a view. There is even a nice pool between the campsites. Okonjima is famous for its leopard program where they study the habits of You can do many activities there including a leopard trekking. Don't miss a game drive with a sundowner overviewing the reserve. It's definitely worth it . The rooftop tent is easy to fold in time and effort compared to the one Take a look at the end of this video or our Namibia Botswana video to see for yourself. The next stop was Bagatelli camp in the Kalahari desert. The camp has six sides which are perfectly separated from each other with private bathroom, power and a fireplace. It is allowed to use the pool at the lodge but since we arrived late and preferred a game drive it didn't go there. You can choose from many activities there for example horseback riding game drives and cheetah feeding Don't miss to go on a drive with a From Bagatelli it's just a short ride to A few kilometers outside the town is the Quivertree Forest which practically has a campsite attached. There is a second spot called the which can be visited if you camp there since it The camp itself is basic - every site has water and power and For us the only reason to stay there was to for that it's perfect since you just walk You can visit the cheetahs After our great time with the Quivertrees we stayed at the Hoba's campsite which is a namibian The campsite is the perfect spot to see the sunrise and sunset at the viewpoint of the fish river canyon. since you don't have to enter or leave the park the drive to get there is around 15 minutes. Every campsite has water and power and some are very nice situated. The shared bathroom is very big and There's a small pool too which we gladly used because it was very hot at our visit. From Hobas we went to the coast at Luderitz and made a break from camping and the heat of the desert. Luderitz is not really pretty but for us it was a very welcoming refreshment after the heat and After this short break we went back to the desert and spent a wonderful night at the Koiismas Ranch. The whole landscape there is insane since it's located at the border of Namib Naukluft National Park. The campsite is small but a very nice one. Every site has enough space, water and is perfectly situated. Two to three sites share a cozy and clean bathroom. The only miss is power. If you want to charge something you can do that at the reception which is about a kilometer away. At the ranch you can enjoy beautiful sunrises and sunsets and do some guided drives, hiking or horseback riding. The next day we head to the highlight of this and maybe every trip to Namibia - the dunes at the Soususvlei. On our first trip to Namibia we stayed as any namibian wildlife resort camp but this The location of the lodge is just perfect and the huts are spacious and all have a balcony with a view of the desert. The rooms have a large bathroom and a very comfy bed. The restaurant has a terrace with a beautiful view and there's a pool too where you can relax after a long day at the dunes. For more impressions about Soususvlei have a look at the After that we went for a relaxing day to the On arrival you can use all the facilities of the attached Namib desert lodge including two pools and the restaurant. Later in the afternoon you will be transferred to the camp for a sundowner, dinner and the night. The special thing at the Dune Star camp is the sleeping under the stars experience. The camp has 9 small chalets with enjoy the view of the sky. There is a small private bathroom but no power outlet. For that you can use the ones at the restaurant. Watch our special video about that which is linked in the card above. For our last stop before heading home from Windhoek we stayed at the lake Oanub camp. The place is huge and the campsites are quite distant from each other and very private. We chose the Berakah site which is directly at the lake and has water and power on site. There's a huge shaded open space and a small kitchen including a fridge. The private bathroom is just a few meters away and is very clean. There is a great restaurant too where you can enjoy the view over the lake while eating. For us it was the perfect ending of a wonderful trip. As bonus material we want to share some information about our campsite from our last trip to the Namibia. Spitzkoppe rest camp is located at the foot of the Spitzkoppe mountain which is called the 'Matterhorn of Namibia'. The sites have no water or power and just a pit toilet but are very nice situated large and far away from each other. Erindi game reserve is the largest private game reserve in Namibia. The campsite there is great. It has a small kitchen, water, power and a private bathroom. The car park is shaded too and it's possible to do a guided game drive in an open safari vehicle or self game drives there. Hoada campsite is a wonderful campsite at the foot of the Grootberg pass and about two hours from the Galton Gate of Etosha. The camp is built within huge rocks and each site has a private bathroom, water and power. Rupara campsite is a small camp which is very nice situated near a river. Zambezi Mubala campsite is near is located directly at the Zambezi river. The camp offers sunset safari boat rides which we highly recommend. We hope you enjoyed our recommendations inspiration for your own trip. Thanks for watching.