When it comes to taking there's this common piece of advice that often gets thrown around. &quot;When in doubt, always choose C.&quot; Right? Or maybe for you it was comes from everywhere. Maybe you heard it from or you read it on the internet. I'm pretty sure that I in my eighth grade but as Abraham Lincoln once didn't say, &quot;Always independently &quot;by eighth graders named Jimmy.&quot; Truer words have never not been said. So today we are gonna go and useful advice that you that next multiple choice in the future. And I've got five main strategies one secret weapon of sorts, First off, when those test don't just start immediately one by one in a linear fashion. Instead, take a few minutes to and just get a general Now, as you're doing of the questions that stand or that you're really, but another thing you're doing skim once over the test before is you're priming your brain and details that are And this can be really, really useful for a couple of different reasons. One, you're priming your about some of the harder to that in a minute, but choice tests will have and hints or sometimes to other questions on the test. For example, say you're and you come across a question like this. Which American president's to order 10 days of mourning in France? Now, as you're going over the one of them right off the Thomas Jefferson, John you don't know which of the So maybe you skip it, and then later, you come true or false. Even though Thomas Jefferson political rivals during the they eventually regained their friendship and kept it until both Now that question just and John Adams both died in from some other source had died in 1821. If you knew that, then that question because both Thomas are not possible answers, These kind of details and gonna crop up in your you probably shouldn't waste digging around for 'em because, you know, preparation is a much better strategy. You should hopefully come to answer most the questions but it can be helpful so just prime your brain with a little bit of a preliminary pass The second technique on my book A Mind for Numbers Jump to Easy technique. And this is a technique into a difficult problem and thinking really deeply get the answer to that Now this is something you're told you in the past, just but there's another benefit that they might not have told you about. If you spend some time you're engaging your brain's focus mode. And I know this focus is something I talk about but it's really, really important. So while you're using focus on the problem and you're to try to solve it. But once you jump into your subconscious resources, of your brain, work on in the background. And then when you go back to you probably have a better Oh, and my apologies to to get a better name than Hard Start, Jump to Easy technique. So I'm gonna go ahead and technique 'cause it's in Crash Warped where you spend and then you switch over and go back and forth from there. Tip number three is to make on your exam twice. Doing this is really, really choice questions can be a limited number of answers written out for you, it can skim over the question to the answer that looks most familiar. But professors can be pretty these kinds of questions, for a few things that can trip you up. For example, some of the might ask you which of the And it can be really easy to if you're going through skimming the questions. Other questions might correct answer and your the answer that is most correct. And of course, in that vein, of questions that have all of as potential answers and I am in several classes during my very quickly and failed to on a few questions, which Tip number four is a tactic all throughout high school check your answers as you of your test instead of just waiting to do it all at the end. And the reason this is so to the end of a page on your five or 10 questions to go over you're probably not gonna by the number of questions and that's gonna decrease the over a dumb mistake or something stick out and that's gonna Now this is not a replacement a good once-over once you've finished it. And I definitely think you at the outset of the test this technique into your you can increase your scores even more. Alright, let's move on So if you come across a can't get the answer to, or on the tip of your tongue, but try to envision yourself in the room in which you learned that Maybe it was your classroom, study spot, but either way, can envision the area where it activates something called Basically, humans are more when they're in the context learned them, but research people simply envisioned the something, they can sort of, even though they're not Now, if even that doesn't work, a question where you just answer is, you've never seen eliminate any of the it's time to break out that secret weapon. So, remember our friend Jimmy who gave us that old advice, you know, Well, yeah, Jimmy was because instead of or just randomly guessing, you to exploit the way in which human beings typically write multiple choice tests. And that's because, as the points out in his book humans are pretty bad at creating actual random distributions of answers. During his research, Poundstone collected over a hundred multiple choice tests from all sorts of different sources. Schools, colleges, drivers exams, online quizzes, you name it, he got it. And that totaled over 2,400 questions. And what he learned from on all those questions First off, he did discover letter answers, but those on how many answers were For three answer questions, there was no bias. And for four answer questions, not C, though it was a very 28% versus the expected 25%. And then, when we go over you know, A through E, it was common answer and C was the Those findings are just the and personally, I find than all the other things he discovered. Including the fact that there's a definite bias toward In his research, 56% of the time, true was the correct answer was false the correct answer. Even more interesting and is the fact that a question likelihood of not having the same answer as the question that came before it. So if you have one question the answer was C, you're and then you move on to the or maybe you've narrowed then it's likely that And perhaps most astoundingly, an all of the above or none that answer was correct 52% that if you're stuck on narrow it down, that Now even though I had fun a &quot;secret weapon&quot; of sorts, that you should only use at a loss and you have to You should use every other to narrow things down, to to use that Tiny the at the end of the day, all you're doing is exploiting the way You're not actually learning actually using your with the actual information Anyway, beyond all the tips in this video, the most important aspect to choice test or any kind of And if you want to learn how more effectively, I actually on my website called The Ultimate Guide to Acing your Final Exams. And it collects everything related to exams, so if you or you're looking for a check it out and you can find right now or in the Beyond that, if you enjoyed this video, you can give it a like it's much appreciated, and on acing your multiple choice right here, I would love to hear from you down in the comments below. If you wanna subscribe to this on being a more effective click right there and you if you want to get a free copy of my book on earning better grades. Now the recommended video something related to this called confidence tracking increase your scores on so check it out.