I'm often told the sharpness of my knife is the best. It's my obsession, to do everything by myself, from beginning till end. And create my own work, without the help of others. I was at a drinking get together yesterday. I thought I'd go home early because we had the shoot today. But I ended up drinking too much. So my voice is a little hoarse. First I hammer and stretch the steel to the right size, and then cut it. This is where I'm cutting the steel and put on some indirect material. It's a substitute material for glue. Five medium sized ones and five small ones. Now I'm going to put the steel into the soft iron. The part I'm most particular about is putting steel in it the traditional way. That's why you can't mass produce these knives. If you use ready ones that already have steel in it, spread them out and craft a knife with it, you won't get any failed ones and the knives will all look the same. But I think it's boring to craft knives like that. I'm not satisfied if I don't do all the work by myself. I make all my knives and kitchen knives by hand, from the blade to the handle. And I even make leather knife cases, though that has nothing to do with a blacksmiths job. If I can't do everything my own way, I won't be satisfied with the endproduct. I wonder why? I might just be stubborn. (laugh) I guess that's just my character. When I get people's help, I will definitely find myself thinking, &quot;If I had made it myself, I would have done it different.&quot; The insertion.... is now complete. The spark that flew over just now. I got a hole in my shoe. It's burned right here, through this gap. This doesn't happen very often. Sometimes it feels hot, but it's bearable. When the sparks from the forge fly over and get on my hands, it's a bit painful sometimes. The next step is to beat out the core part and spread the blade. Next I spread the blade. The next step is to form the core part. Next I'll widen the blade some more. I will make it thinner and thinner. It's quite difficult because I have to hammer it so that it gets thinner as it spreads toward the end. Now I heat it up once more, and put it in the straw ashes. By cooling it slowly in the straw ashes, the steel is completely unburned. This is the area where the sparks hit. It turns red. I hold the knife like this, so the convex part inevitably gets burned. Not on my other hand, though. I'm looking into the fire all day, so I need eye drops. The steel is soft now. So, it will not break even if I hit it hard. I don't heat it until it turns red. Since I'm selling these to paying customers, I strive to craft the best product I can create at that time. By doing that, I keep getting better and find new goals. Then I strive to reach those new goals, and can make products of great quality every time. I always try to make the best of what I can do right now. I will cut it with this. It's tough. It's not that easy. Now I'm going to start shaping the blade. Like this. After this, I will do the hardening process. I use 100% of this pine charcoal for the hardening process. The firepower is stable and very easy to use. Applying this will help hardening it. I have to darken the room to see the color of the hardened blade. Hardening is the last process to breathe the soul into the blade. There is a slight distortion in the one I just worked on, so I'm fixing that. The next step is the finish polishing. First I'll do the Kurouchi finish. For the polished finish, this part is the same. Only the edge is sharpened. This is where I'm done with the Kurouchi finish. And for a polished finish, I polish the whole blade. In a way that it goes thinner around the edge. The good thing about the polished finish, is that the whole surface is no longer uneven, so you can cut right through ingredients smoothly. This is called "plasto", it blurs the sharpened area with white. It's a little hard to see from the outside. These are called glass beads. It's glass powder. Also, and this is quite important from a practical standpoint, I re-coat the surface here myself. So that the coating stays shiny for a long time. This is just for looks, but we put our logo on the back. All finished knives are neatly packed by the craftsman by hand. Nishida-san named his standard knives after his three children, Koharu, Koyo and Sakura.