Wario just got his new car, we're this car his gold mine has been everything I just did there is not allowed. Let's drift, okay? So that doesn't count, what I just to if I won here. Where I'm allowed to hop, I'm doesn't want to get his tires dirty, he doesn't so we're just not drifting today. Oh, the about handling is, look, the handling actually like if I turn early here and then wait, look, I'm gonna be hopping like this. Okay, the mini-map far ahead, okay, I need to try making this Oh, this is so bad. [laughs] So drifting is one important mechanic in this game, and I'm not going up mini-turbos as well. This is gonna really suck. to make it in here. Okay, and let's start using while hopping. Nope, maybe get this one. Nope Oh, look at how much speed I lose when I do that. Come on, bullet! Oh, this is not good this. I have not tried this even once, and first time. Goodbye. Alan, gotta take my anger Star, uh, this is just not good enough. Uh, I getting last, so somebody is gonna get absolutely Oh no, bullet this whole time? Oh, that's actually so difficult. Wow, I got I have a strategy, it's gonna work. So, I have one is frontrun. Right, so I have a decent speed stat, be that bad. But like right here, at the end of have no speed, and so everyone just passed me and, like everybody else, look, they're all charging good for me if I try and do this. Like, there's this. So, this is not the plan. The plan is to because bagging is where in your speed items and Drifting is more just for turning, but I can use bullet, okay, sweet. I need to get all these coins moment. Let's hear that green shell was gonna hit Uh-oh. Oh yes, I didn't really lose any speed went that wide. I still need to get my coins So, two coins right here, this finishes let's use it. [Music] Okay, kind of back in this, far ahead. I have to win right at the end. I can't this is not gonna help me being right here. My that one final push, like I basically need good I dodged too early. I was just trying to I'm all the way over here already, let's just There's no way I can win this, right? First place Mushroom. No, I need to accelerate. Oh, this was so bad. Imagine I could have Mushrooms! Oh... it is over. Oh, [laughs] That was my second race. Oh, that was combo. I'm now Waluigi, and I am going to do a so this time instead of not being able to just not let's be honest, hopping made that so much like when you don't drift, you don't get but I got turning back, and thanks for hopping, using items. So, really, I mitigated most of you want to mitigate the difficulty but I feel like I did it so much that that guys might have thought this challenge would and the reason I picked this specific combo is amount of speed it has. The handling is not fast combo to try to make these comebacks, and the Okay, I think I should have saved I barely got away from everything. What? I actually just can't pass this person. Handling, I can take down one person here, and there's a red shell coming for me. Nooo, I didn't really look at where first place was, person wasn't holding a red shell, like they sharp turns on this track. I don't see how this is it my best shot. So, I need some items right here, Uh, uh, I need to slow down now. All right, when you're going slow, you actually how normal racing games go, but in Mario Kart, Okay, I need smart steering now. These mushrooms, steering. Oh, fireball-- okay, we will aim for probably was not smart steering's fault. I'm it really didn't like that piranha plant. Okay, Nice, that's a pretty good shortcut. Okay, helps so much. Yes, and the red shell passed me. want to see. Ah, turn more, I got a mini-turbo. it starts to consider you as like not drifting, it almost looks like inside drift, even All right, what are we getting? Can we get, like, Fifth! Wow, I got fifth on such a curvy and tell me this is even possible to not I mean, I'm not considering that a victory, this U-turn coming up right here, what am I will go slowly and collect coins, but on the out. All right, I'm brainstorming right now, and let's use this here. I'm gonna burn all these Two items, oh, I'm just tapping A right I have a star! Okay, I'm gonna go so wide, dodge Okay, and this track is going to be actually Smart steering. [Music] I just don't want smart steering to mess me it can only help, like me not having smart Okay, let's actually do the section with Oh, couldn't get an item, sucks. [Music] Oh just a red shell? Let's take out this Roy. [laughs] Nooo, I was about to get third! I can't oh, I did such a good job. We have another very steering on, though. I'm prepped for this. come on. And then, oh, everyone's And I can mushroom there safely, thanks to smart steered me away from-- look at that, I couldn't See what I mean by like, I don't always want to it's not always good. Take me into the off-road, on in smart steering's brain right there, like let me in afterwards? Okay, I'm gonna turn it think I need smart, no, no, I can just use the The star can probably take me Oh, almost, oh, that green shell almost hit almost gonna complain so hard. [laughs] Okay, okay like everyone's right there, that's so many why does everyone else get the bullet, where Okay, I need these items, these items you can't risk somebody I need two items right here, bullet Just gonna use it. Please take me far! Are you kidding me? there's always a red Oh, I still got fourth, okay, it didn't good results on such curvy tracks. Does like why is this always impossible? We got I can hardly think of something worse. Smart not even worried about coins, I'm just worried Yeah, at least with smart steering I can use I have to use the mushrooms, otherwise Okay, this is actually working, I I can. okay, [laughs] I just took the shortcut. I just use a mushroom. [laughs] What? Oh, I took that turn so well, [laughs] I'm in [laughs] This is so silly. Okay, but now my spot again. Holy, that was so fun though, Okay, how m-- I can't do this, I need Okay, this is good, this is good, but I dopamine just crashed. Oh. Oh no, first place N-No! I was gonna get second, what even hit I could have won that, that's crazy. All take me to 200 CC. Ah, I think Sky Garden is going I win this track, but anything can happen. Okay, smart steering help me out, but see how slow steering? it's like it turns for you, yeah, Okay, it's kind of steer into this, nice. Okay, good. Well, I am way too far behind. Like on 200 I should not have done this. Okay, actually that's smart steering took me away from--no, it didn't. through the section. Oh, bullet's not gonna take Come on, come on, come on, come on. No, no, I would have You know what? This challenge is possible.