- [Voiceover] Coming up on Aging Matters, Living with Alzheimer's and Dementia. (anxious piano music) - [Voiceover] Just have her hug you, okay? She is hugging you. She's a sweet girl. - [Voiceover] It is no respecter or lifestyle or achievement. All of us can be affected by dementia. - Good morning! It's good to see you. - You look - [Voiceover] There's help you, especially when you (anxious violin, piano music) [MELODY] Why are you crying? [MELODY] Nobody's gonna take [PEGGY] Ok. As long as you're with me. - [Voiceover] Dementia is in America and the vast are attributable to long And so families usually bear - [Voiceover] I want I have specific cognitive difficulties. But I have a whole lot of (anxious violin, piano music) - [Voiceover] Major Aging Matters is provided lead sponsor of NPT Reports Aging Matters. The West End Home Foundation, of seniors through many The HCA Foundation on The Jeanette Travis Foundation, dedicated to improving of the Middle Tennessee community. Addition funding provided of Middle Tennessee and by - Alzheimer's, dementia, words cause more anguish than Hi I'm Kathy Mattea, for my family these words meant years of We witnessed the gradual and physical abilities share our experience. As out population ages, we rise in the number of people So what is dementia versus the impact on individuals, How can you continue to live And how can we as a those living with dementia Join me as we explore the - [Voiceover] My mother She was one of the first She was a teacher, she She also did training and She had tons of hobbies 'cause she was blessed with a lot of talent. She could sow, she could knit, she could make dolls, costumes. She had an amazing sense of humor. (inspirational violin music) She was a very Irish woman who never ran away from adversity. I love this one, too. - [Voiceover] Rita signs of dementia in her early 80s, though her family didn't - She forgot things, give up driving was she was and she was fairly close to So that was a big sign was when she began to really hoard things. But it wasn't anything that something very wrong with And she mainly had really good days. (somber piano music) - [Voiceover] In 2009 left her hospitalized and delirious, McCarthy was diagnosed - But at that point it was more like mild cognitive impairment. She still was able to drive, she had a computer, she had an iPod. She couldn't necessarily instruction and every day you She still knew who was charming and had - [Voiceover] Later that have her leg amputated and In the middle of the night, she woke up agitated and confused when her roommate raised - She rolled onto the floor and the nurse, I'm not saying anything the nurse had 25 to 30 people the only nurse on, gave which is contraindicated But it's effective. My mother didn't try and get out of bed. My mother didn't try and She pretty much didn't or five days and then when She didn't know where she was. She was never my mother again. (somber piano music) I mean it was an entirely - We're not building ramps dementia and in this case I'm ramps, I'm talking about Whether you're in your in a nursing home, we and experiences are in places based on our view of the world, our rhythms, our schedules, and we expect people with And if they can't, we blame their dementia and we give them these - I felt comfortable that the system understood how to care The system really, they They're not there. When all of this had at one point she looked &quot;I don't want to be a burden and I don't &quot;want to live and not have a life.&quot; And I grabbed her hand and And this happened on my watch. - This big issue right now what they're facing until being asked not only to care support structures and they They misunderstand what the what the resources out there are, what their alternatives and And it's devastating disease as far as money, there's so little devoted to helping us get our heads around it in a timely way and there's not much out there. - [Voiceover] There are people living with Alzheimer's with another 8.5 million people providing unpaid care and support. If there are no medical breakthroughs in prevention or treatment, afflicted with dementia to nearly 14,000,000 by the year 2050. The need for paid and unpaid care partners will also rise astronomically. - As a society, this thing is changing us. It's changing the very fabric So if we don't soon figure out how to take the one person who's living with dementia and start to build a community around this person so that the family feels supported, the care partner feels one another, the numbers And we're so scared of avoiding this idea, we're - [Voiceover] Understanding the most complex organ in - The brain is a very dynamic organ. Develops over many, many years and then declines in some respects also over many, many years but not in a uniform fashion. - Some abilities actually So your ability to know information, your knowledge of the world, your wisdom, your vocabulary even all the way to your late 80s and 90s. What does seem to decline and the ability to hold does seem to decline with normal aging. But is that pathological We're not entirely sure beginning to change what we - Dementia is a term that we use to describe a loss of cognitive function, usually memory and other thinking skills. And when they have declined to the point that it affects our daily function, then we call that dementia. Now Alzheimer's disease get used interchangeably It turns out that Alzheimer's disease is one sub-type of dementia. - Dementia is incredibly different than all other chronic health there's all these different Each one progresses experiences different and you can have more than one. - [Voiceover] Alzheimer's disease accounts for 60 to 80 percent of all dementias but there are many different types. The next most common Lewy Body dementia and Recent studies reveal many people have more than one type of dementia. The underlying cause of all types of dementia is damage to brain cells. This damage interferes with the ability of brain cells to When brain cells cannot a person's thinking, behavior The symptoms of each type related to damage happening The temporal lobe controls The hippocampus, seated helps a person form new It is one of the first areas affected by Alzheimer's disease, which is why memory loss is often one of the earliest symptoms. When language areas in the temporal lobe are affected by disease, difficulty understanding conversations or will talk but not make any sense. The frontal lobe controls such as thinking, planning and organizing. It also controls emotions and behaviors. People with frontal lobe making decisions, trouble doing more than Some people with frontal lobe damage undergo dramatic changes Often they will become making rude comments or and make poor decisions While others lose the ability to control their emotions and may As the dementia progresses, more areas of the brain are affected In the later stages of causes physical swallowing food or problems When people start having these problems, they are at increased risk for falls, pneumonia and malnutrition Paulan Gordon didn't serious cognitive issues brought it to her attention. - One day my daughter for a two-hour period I repeated myself or I went in a room and came back and didn't know why I was in that room. And when she wrote all this and I saw two sheets of paper I started realizing maybe - [Voiceover] After many a psychiatrist, Gordon mild to moderate dementia, She was 57 years old. Gordon is among the four percent of people diagnosed with dementia before age 65. The largest percentage develops dementia between 75 and 84 years old. By age 85 and older, percent of people will - It is no respecter or lifestyle or achievement. All of us can be affected by dementia. Aging of course is the primary risk factor and we used to kid around that the best way to prevent and that still is the case today. It is an age-associated illness, there's no question about it. - [Voiceover] While age is race and ethnicity play Nationwide, Hispanics as likely as whites to have dementia. African Americans are twice as likely but they are much less and when they do get a diagnosis, they are more likely than whites to be in the later stages of the disease. - Compared to white counterparts, Hispanics and African make lower incomes and a life satisfaction by put together with a number of factors, poverty, disorganization in a healthy skepticism of health systems, all couple together for to be disproportionately - Here's some water. - [Voiceover] Despite the living with dementia, 50 percent are ever formally - To some extent I think there's still the belief among physicians that this is just normal aging. That if you're older, that that that's normal, right? I also think there's among some doctors in the sense that well, it's degenerative, what's the There's nothing you can do. And I think there's a many physicians to get brain diagnoses which are - It's difficult to find the time in a busy private practice. I did private practice constantly have a revolving And geriatrics in general living with cognitive And if you're going to do it effectively, you have got to push that schedule aside a little bit because there's - We've never had enough geriatricians to take care of the geriatric population. That deficit is only growing because the baby boomers are now in the geriatric age group and people We're well behind where we need to be in finding enough providers - It's a pleasure, always good to see you. - [Voiceover] Finding a and treat dementia can Nationwide there are fewer and neurologists than can meet the current needs of those seeking care. A recent survey found exceeded supply by 11 percent in 2012. By 2025 that gap will After the initial shock of the diagnosis, Paulan Gordon had to deal with the implications of a long-term illness that would gradually change her abilities. - [Paulan] The first I know that I could never work again. And there's a double financial loss that I don't think other people think about and it's that the spouse usually has to stop working to take So there's a big financial impact. There's also a big loss of independence from not being able to If I want to get up and down the street, I can't silly but just in your not able to do the things - [Voiceover] Most of Gordon's symptoms are not outwardly visible. She struggles with simple math, being able to retain information and retrieving the right - If I were out and about meeting someone, they would not know that I had dementia. And in fact the people I have family members and so forth, they said &quot;You can't have dementia, And I said &quot;I'm pretty sure.&quot; The other thing that says &quot;My mother does this &quot;and I do this and do People are very, very - [Voiceover] Research backs A recent survey found that Americans fear Alzheimer's more than cancer. Most feared being unable or being a burden on others - We value our memories and our cognitive functions very highly changing or becoming is very scary to people I think. And I think the larger thing is just that all of our public stigma about how the person's fading away, calling dementia the long goodbye. And that really actually exacerbates the fear rather than helps people to have a greater understanding of - [Voiceover] Gordon has felt the sting of that fear and stigma - People look at you as if you're damaged. My mother had a really She had this image of this couldn't accept that there She didn't want to tell she didn't want to tell family. She was in denial for up until - Being afraid of something from better appreciating it and developing any kind of plan of we want to do is flight and neither of those things So we've gotta find language and an openness to start discussions. - [Paulan] The wrong about a person with automatically in a stage and they're ready to go. And I think that people don't realize that there's a long span of in that state, you're still There is a good quality I think you have to go out and find it. The doctors are not - The physician is often the point person when it comes to the information sharing and of medical practice is such going to be the primary point There really needs to be a lot of personal and social - [Voiceover] Frustrated by the lack of information coming from no local support groups for Gordon turned to her computer. She soon discovered online support groups, Facebook groups and organizations run by and for those living with dementia. - My family and my grandchildren are going to Disney World, end of this month. I would love to go along but I know I wouldn't handle the crowds well. I wouldn't handle all the lights and sounds and bells and whistles. - [Paulan] When I stumbled living well with dementia, I mean it was a very, very happy moment because I realized it - I'll enjoy it from a - [Paulan] I wasn't gonna in six months and it - [Voiceover] Gordon now participating in webinars, to questions on Facebook who are recently diagnosed - For me the school and my job, my career, that was my whole life take that away, it's a a lonely feeling and these support groups have given me back a sense of purpose. I can help other people and by doing that, it's very empowering. - [P.K.] You will be asked You can find a list of - [Voiceover] P.K. Beville and caregivers see their - [P.K.] Put the glasses on. - [Voiceover] By taking and sending them through - I developed the Virtual Dementia Tour as a way to simulate what it might be like to have dementia so that we can learn how to serve those with dementia better. - [Voiceover] Beville carefully researched how to simulate the symptoms and behaviors that result from a brain She developed components that limit fine motor and balance problems and - The final piece de the headphones on and they're I developed a confusion tape. - Find the pants and put the pants-- - Now listen, I'm not hearin' - And now this normal person these things together and has Usually the light comes on about A normal person begins behaving exactly like a person who has And then after the tour is So the startle responses specifically were geared so that you could to live in a world where when that next sound's your brain doesn't tell - [Voiceover] The virtual with a debrief where the experience compares to and share their own reactions. - I was completely shocked. I felt like I couldn't function in there. I really just wanted... Wanted to sit down and cry. - I had no idea of the physical changes that they experience so For a minute I was like Susan, I just wanted to sit down and cry. The compassion thing of - The most powerful thing that we get are the people, no matter how to have that basic things actually are going on with a person with dementia and we have to help. - If I don't take the time to figure out what you're experiencing in the world, I can't be very effective at guiding and directing you into a safer place, into a situation that I think - [Voiceover] When Joyce Wisby's husband was diagnosed with dementia in 2004, she found good use for her - I dedicated 10 years of my life to learn everything I could about caring for him and about Alzheimer's and that was talking about I went to a caregiver's conference. I just wanted us to we could have for as - [Voiceover] For the marriage, Wisby could about an issue that would - Jim would sit there &quot;wrong with me, there's That frustrated me probably the fact that he, I couldn't because he wouldn't, Even until just before ever admitted that he had - [Voiceover] An estimated with Alzheimer's do not For care partners like Joyce Wisby, this means working alone to create a support system and plan for the future. But for six years after the diagnosis, the Wisbys were able to fulfilling their dreams of In 2011, they pulled their motor home into a Virginia bluegrass festival. - We were sitting outside the people and I went in to to come in to eat dinner and was so angry and he And he threw our dog and - [Voiceover] Joyce of her husband's rage, trying her best to calm him before calling the police. - That was when I knew that what we'd experienced was now over. From that time on, it was like walking on eggshells every day. - [Voiceover] Caring for takes an emotional and of 10.2 billion dollars costs for care partners in 2015. Nearly 60 percent of dementia caregivers rate their emotional and 40 percent suffer from depression. - This disease wears people out. As a person's dementia is progressing, I'm gonna be providing and it moves from just to put her clothes on or to take a shower to actually physically assisting her to do that thing. And as I'm doing that, I'm having to let go of the relationship we used to have in order to deal with But so is she and and her ability and my skill, that can be a really painful process for both of us. - It's a beautiful coat. - [Voiceover] The Wisby's journey spanned 10 years before Jim died and Joyce found herself learning about - I was happy that his the last 10 months were I felt relief because I was Then it started setting in, my sadness that you - [Voiceover] Wisby now channels her energy into helping others - Well welcome, we're so happy that you're all here tonight and-- - [Voiceover] She offers her 10 years of hard-won knowledge of dementia care to the members of her own support group. - We'll go around and you can just tell us what your journey is. I find that people are really overwhelmed in many ways about what is happening and many times they're still working and they don't have the time to put in to the research that I did. I mean I dedicated my life to this. People don't always have that knowledge. Also they're not ready They ask a question, I give an And then you know they're just not ready and they're not there yet. - Put your hand around your open eye and I want you to look down and see Doesn't that kinda make you dizzy? - [Voiceover] Debbie Miller often gets the panicked calls when families realize they need help and have She opened a home care realized that professional receive any specialized - We'll have people in our training class that have had 30 years never had any training, it's amazing. Today for example, a lady of experience and didn't I mean she was, really like wow I wish, she even said that to me. &quot;I wish I knew this 15 years ago.&quot; Why do you think we would - Because it let's 'em know - Exactly, exactly. - [Voiceover] Half of all have no regulations in the Certified Nurses Aid curriculum. These states follow the Nationwide only six states require a specific number of hours After watching her staff struggle to care for their clients, Miller educated herself and developed a training - Knowledge leads to better care and when they know what to expect and how to respond to that when they see it, it makes for so much smoother and a much more comfortable situation - [Voiceover] Miller's business is part of the large and growing care services to those A recent study estimated is spent annually for dementia care in nursing homes and assisted living centers or home-based professional caregivers. By the year 2040 as the population ages, that number could rise to - We don't talk about what this disease looks like from its beginning to its end and how many people are journey and what the price tag of that is. I mean that's one of not dealing with this as or anybody else dealing the financial implications There is no way to you're gonna need unless - Dementia is the most More costly than cancer and heart disease and the vast majority of those costs are attributable to long-term and that means the of daily living like eating, bathing, dressing and taking medications. Medicare does not cover long-term care except under very special families usually bear the - [Voiceover] People living with dementia incur an average of in out-of-pocket expenses for healthcare and long-term care, even with support from other payers such as Medicare or Medicaid. People of similar age without dementia incur only about 2,500 dollars per year in out-of-pocket expenses. A recent study found that on average, families caring for someone with dementia in the last five years of life spent about 32 percent of These expenses hit African American families particularly hard. They spent nearly 84 percent of their household wealth on care expenses. - The biggest strain is They are not wealthy enough to pay for their own long-term care in nursing homes and assisted living facilities And they're not low enough income to qualify for Medicaid either. With state Medicaid budgets under strain, there are still a lot of the services even if you So you might find yourself on a waiting list to receive those waiver programs. - [Voiceover] The majority of people with dementia live at home which means spouses or their children carry the largest burden of the care responsibilities. 62 percent of caregivers are women, most often wives and daughters and 34 percent are over the age of 65. But many family caregivers also don't have any training in how to best - [Regina] You can't help but see the educational void out there. Families are really overwhelmed. They don't understand what's going on. It's scary, it's stressful. Their heart is in the right the best for their loved one - So tonight we're going to get a little glimpse of the brain and why we're seeing some of the behaviors that we're seeing. We're gonna talk about some techniques. - [Voiceover] Miller now spends anywhere from a third to half her care education to churches, organizations, healthcare facilities and senior centers. - It's really important for family caregivers to be educated. First of all, education When they get it, it changes everything. It absolutely changes everything and I've had so many people tell &quot;I am so, I get it now.&quot; And they can be more If you expect this, you'll - The reliance on family The ratio of caregivers to somebody 80 years and to need long-term care ratio is expected to drop to less than three-to-one by the year 2050. This places even more burden on the formal or paid long term services Unfortunately that system in terms of the number who are available to provide that care. The country really needs to think about better ways and places in which to provide care for people who live with dementia. - All right, Lenore, straighten up sister. - [Voiceover] In a small Tennessee, Mary Anne her small church's space day-a-week activity-based respite program to serve the needs of a - Here I've noticed there's no resources to find out how you could There just isn't any, you just - There are a number of challenges that rural areas face compared The difficulty with getting programs out to rural has to do with the fact the big money are in So the money that's needed and different things to or caregiver stress are rural areas and when it is, - [Voiceover] With so few the Veranda's clients have come beyond just the 12 hours - The most important thing needed in rural communities is knowledge. Knowledge about the disease, knowledge of where to go to get that knowledge. The Veranda's important to this community because we give them answers. - [Voiceover] With the help and free space from can also offer a sliding scale fee. Melody Vaudrey brought her sister Peggy to the Veranda after options that were affordable - She comes three days She feels like she's got a It's not just for me, it's great for me but it's for her brain, She needs to be with other people. (clapping) Since I've started caring for Peggy, it's just hard, it's to a little baby that's I'm constantly having to care for Peggy. Look, let's put it on right. She can still feed herself All those things are gonna happen though, they say they are. They're tellin' me I'm gonna That's not what I plan on doing. I'm just telling you, I don't - [Voiceover] But Vaudrey to pay for that labor-intensive - There's not a lot of especially when you don't have I could never ask my I mean I feel like I'm caring for her, I would like financially we have - [Voiceover] Vaudrey joins in facing the dilemma financial security to help A recent survey found contributors had to cut 20 percent spent money savings and 15 percent borrowed money. As long as her sister is Vaudrey is grateful for the service. - The best part for me is just... I hate to say this but I cannot do it every day all The more help I get, and the better I'm gonna - Churches are gonna have to be on the forefront of dementia care. If you're in some of four hours is a lifetime. So even if it's just one could have a program one day With the cost of caregiving, get on board, it's gonna They have plenty of space to do it, million-dollar buildings - [Voiceover] As the need and some organizations are finding they can have more of an impact by working across the boundaries of their In Knoxville, Tennessee, better support families and At the University of the Cole Neuroscience Clinic nonprofit to better meet Alzheimer's Tennessee social worker who offers families help while sitting in the She coordinates her social worker and can provide - Hi there, how you doin'? - When this program was of a need that we saw diagnoses into real life. Because the implication is so broad and it doesn't sort of a support network - They often get this they don't even know what to ask. So it's a week or two the doctor's office and So it gives them an opportunity on top of what Cole can do for them. Just support, someone to - I feel like the because we have so many patients that are networked into the Alzheimer's Tennessee support groups and then vice versa. I think it's an idea that and families feel like everyone's - [Voiceover] Across town, Mount Calvary Baptist Church hosts another Howard Circle of Friends Adult Day Care. Alzheimer's Tennessee but uses space donated by the church. - When we started the program, there were some things that and there were some they could take advantage the wheel and so we decided to partner. - They felt like it was a part of their mission and their vision They were in the middle of and so the pastor and decided that they would changes were needed for And so they were ready for us - [Leroy] We saw it as people with a way of maintaining dignity and having a great quality of life. - [Voiceover] The collaboration among organizations worked for Vicki Waters. She found out about the Day Care services while taking Alzheimer's Tennessee also connected her to resources to make it affordable. - Bringing her here, I get some rest and get caught up in the housework and bills and everything I need to do. She likes comin' but at first she didn't because I only brought her on certain days to Howard because I didn't want her to feel like we was abandoning her. So we just had to ease her into it, tell her we goin' to - [Leroy] A lot of loved ones were not here, they would more than likely be in a nursing home. Point blank some would say, &quot;I just can't watch them - It takes a collaboration, it took Alzheimer's Tennessee, it took some private funding, it took the Medicaid All of that works within that. Referrals from pastors, It's a collaboration and we were determined to make it work. - I think we need to develop and those models need to work From home caregiving and institutional caregiving. We're not entirely clear that there's any one answer to that. We need to learn from each - [Voiceover] Tucked into a leafy suburban campus in Nashville, in the best practices for 11 years in the making, on leading experts across a care model that would by - The vision for Abe's environment where we can Where we bring together the best practices that we can find. - There have been very intervention studies to in dementia care, so there's that we don't know about What's unique about Abe's to continuously evaluate their defensible way and also new, innovative approaches - [Voiceover] Abe's Garden was born from the Shmerling family's struggle to find good care for their father, Abe. In the 11 years he lived his family tried every - One of the things time we changed the we'd see a decline in We wanted to find a and age and be able to without having an upheaval in his life. And that set us on a course, to identify what is it And he's got the vision but he also knows how to pull partners - [Voiceover] One of to sign on was Vanderbilt University, providing access to social workers and researchers. Anyone who could help define what best care practices might include. - That was part of the Over the years we've talked we had charrettes with national leaders to look at our design and give feedback. We were able to show them about and they were able &quot;You might want to And a lot of what they shared with us helped shape what we ultimately see when you look at Abe's Garden now. - [Voiceover] Abe's Garden also designed its evaluation systems by Vanderbilt University as - Abe's Garden is really committed to serving as a national and part of that mission involves being actively engaged in research. The standardized assessments with the residents and the that they are putting in for investigators like me to do much more rigorous dementia care evaluation. - [Voiceover] The most visible result of the long design process is - So the physical environment can be considered a treatment for dementia because if you can create those disabilities, of your way for example, do it can help you function better. - [Voiceover] The facility is divided into three houses, each with and decorations to help cue The houses all open to a central courtyard that allows easy access to the outdoors as well as an abundance of natural light. - [Judy] The courtyard There's raised flower where they can plant that cycle of life happening - One of the problems with dementia is that you lose a sense of time. If you're in a dark room, you don't know how much time has passed so you don't know whether it's night or day If you have the sun to if you have the cold and the warmth to tell you it's summer, you then know the seasons and that overcomes one of those disabilities. - [Voiceover] The open living areas encourages community activities and limit time alone in their furnished bedroom suites. - Every piece was really the needs of folks that maybe need to be more organized with They might need light that shows them the way to the bathroom at night, a bed that's designed so that they don't fall out but assists them in getting up. We want to encourage independence but also to provide support. - [Voiceover] To meet its residents, Abe's Garden Institute's model of It aims to prevent the often seen in those living with dementia. - What they brought to at any challenging There's a reason for it and if we can figure out, we can have an impact on it. - [John] The antidote to agitation, anxiety, aggression So what can we do to engage people and thus get rid of the And that is engage them their brain can accept and (clapping, singing) Whether it be music, Whether it be dance, all of those are ways to engage people and that's why we'll have it here at Abe's Garden as well. - [Voiceover] All staff, not just direct care workers participate including maintenance personnel Trainers also work alongside to ensure they are To evaluate what is working Abe's Garden created a the Continuous Quality - There's constantly gonna be change and that's probably at We're not going to say, &quot;This is the program, hope you like it.&quot; Our job is to identify we discover something's then it's on us to change it. - [Voiceover] Joanne Aron after a traumatic year of that forced her to for a long-term care facility where she spent most of her time in her room. - After 30 or 60 days, she was starting to get and asked us is there something out there for her that would be better? And so when we searched listened to the ideas of and realized that this was a - [Voiceover] Aron's pain medicine contributed in her functioning before - She was having trouble She was having trouble in that square seeing that one and three was 13. What we're seeing is the engagement is actually refreshing Just last week I was in watching her speak with her book club So community and engagement are really at the cornerstone of what's - [Judy] When we envisioned that we would have 42 families at a time, we knew we were not gonna make a big dent in this illness in the local community. Our broader picture for Abe's Garden is to identify what are the best practices, have evidence behind them To see other communities picking up some or all of what we're doing. And then if we can move and help families that are and to be able to provide who won't be able to afford Abe's Garden but need some kind of help. - I didn't do this in the operating room. (anxious piano music) - [Sandra] The most important mission is to share what There are so many more of care than what any one If we can improve our to provide better dementia people live, then we will - The first thing we need of people with dementia That's the number one thing. I want them to understand that I have specific cognitive difficulties but I have a whole lot of cognitive abilities left. - This isn't hopeless, it's just another way to and living well is really I can have a good quality of life if you know how to have life with me and you feel comfortable and confident or know who to call on and you need to help you - [Paul] We are a youth-oriented culture. We're about to become an because there will be more will be younger people And part of the community's responsibility is to say Alzheimer's disease and dementia and cognitive aging is part of all of us and we need to help each other with that. - You wanna feel the land here? - There are not going to be There are not gonna be the housing, not everyone can afford home care or assisted living facilities. So this is going to the number of people that - We need to retool community education so that police forces and store owners and bus has a greater understanding people so that people in the community with the diagnosis. - You may have dementia, but you still deserve and I think we owe that to them, to ourselves and to God. - And people with dementia You just have to get to it and the more you're around 'em, the more you love 'em. They've taught me more about love than I've ever known from anyone. - I know from my own experience that living with or caring for someone with dementia can be excruciating at times. But in the middle of all that pain, there are unexpected gifts. Like the afternoon I sang with my mother. She was tone-deaf and would never sing in front of anyone for day I saw a joy in her It gave me a glimpse into and that for me was the While no one welcomes a more and more of us will We can't afford to ignore the future but to do that, we must better ways to support those Thank you for joining me. To learn more about this program go to wnpt.org/agingmatters. (anxious piano music) - [Voiceover] Major Aging Matters is provided lead sponsor of NPT Reports Aging Matters. The West End Home Foundation, support in the care of seniors through many organizations in Middle Tennessee. The HCA Foundation on The Jeanette Travis Foundation, dedicated to improving of the Middle Tennessee community. Additional funding provided of Middle Tennessee and by (upbeat piano jingle)