This video is sponsored by Invideo AI This is the UK! A nation sitting between two the United States across the Atlantic to the Let's look at the numbers. The UK's total trade of this, nearly half--46%--is with the EU, making The US comes next, accounting for 17.8%, while But could this balance be about to change? "To me the most beautiful word, and I in the dictionary today is the word &quot;tariff.&quot; you make it so high, so horrible, so obnoxious.&quot; of up to 20% on goods coming into the US, Let's take a closer look at the The UK exports a hefty 221 billion euros to exports. Meanwhile, it imports 134 billion euros billion euro trade surplus in the UK's favour. And it's countries not buying enough American. relationship,&quot; it's highly likely these And here's where things start to look bleak. The has crunched the numbers, and even without Trump's 1.2% next year, rising slightly to 1.4% in 2026. growth is estimated to decrease with long-term growth slipping to 0.9% by 2026. by 3 to 4 percentage points, making everyday interest rates could rise by 2 to 3 percentage to keep inflation in check--hitting This isn't good news for the UK. But hey, there's another massive trading bloc With the US leaning into isolationism and cozying up to the EU again to revive Many people ask me how to create videos like I they're proud to share with their friends, yet are Invideo AI enables you to do Simply type a prompt like: "Create And just look at these results: Unlike other video tools that are hard to InVideo is like having the perfect creative that you don't even notice the tool--you For example, you can edit your video with France has a president, currently Emanuel Macron, who is in charge of Foreign Policy. Then there is the National Assembly where the real debates happen. This really makes the process You can try Invideo AI for free, but if you the Generative Plan starts at $96/month--and trust So, where does UK-EU trade stand today? in short TCA. This is the deal that's been since Brexit. It allows tariff-free and quota-free Well not really. You see, even with the EU is no longer straightforward. for example. Before Brexit, they could Channel hassle-free. Now? They have to get export health certificates signed off by a For many small businesses, all this red tape isn't cost, and uncertainty have made it almost Aston University Business School reports exporting small amounts to the EU. And the goods exports to the EU fell by 27%, and imports This hasn't gone unnoticed in under Prime Minister Keir Starmer, is taking with Starmer himself advocating for It's not just politicians raising the alarm. plainly that Brexit has weakened the UK economy. relations with the EU to drive economic growth. Agreement, which facilitates the free movement own trade deals, what other options are Well, the UK could rejoin the Customs Union. its regulations for goods with the EU. The big checks or tariffs. No more delays or mountains But there's a trade-off: external tariffs as the EU, meaning it couldn't all trade agreements would be handled by the EU. strike bespoke deals with countries that was a key promise of Brexit. The Single Market isn't just about the free movement of services, people, and capital. the EU as freely as they did before Brexit. right to live and work anywhere across the EU. would require full regulatory alignment with the external tariffs and could technically make rarely happen. Why? Because aligning with EU rules As for the drawbacks, access to the and without being part of the Customs Non-EU countries like Norway, Iceland, and Market through the European Economic Area (EEA) So, is one of these models a fit for the UK? Keir Starmer recently said: that we are not going back to the EU, and that Customs Union. But we have to make Brexit work." there, Starmer. The question is--why? people is an absolute no-go--it was one of the key rejoining might solve some trade issues, staying checks and paperwork for goods crossing borders. that be a good fit for the UK? that the UK wants to make its own trade closer look at how that's actually going. free trade deals. That sounds pretty impressive... of them are rollover deals. These are basically those same countries while it was part of the EU. Japan, Australia, and New Zealand. But Trade Policy Observatory, the Japan deal offers And as for Australia and New Zealand? Critics Zealand far more than the UK, with the farming So yeah, they're not exactly glowing In my opinion, this is both naive and EU--and that number could be so much higher, with just a fraction of the EU's economic trade deals on its own than the EU can as at all of these trade deals the EU is working And the idea that Trump would exclude the UK over the EU? Let's be real--he didn't do it Isn't it time to put our differences behind us? customs union. This move wouldn't just boost united front to Trump, the only kind That said though, a full return to an With Starmer unlikely to reverse his stance, between the current Trade and Cooperation Potential steps include negotiating a sanitary products. Another possibility is securing mutual allowing UK lawyers and architects touring arrangements for musicians there has been some discussion about an EU-UK While these initiatives could help in certain impact for either side. With the EU focused on its improbable. For now, the UK's strategy will likely a significant shift toward deeper integration. But what do you think? Which If you're curious about the potential impact Trump out our detailed analysis in this video here. and share if you found this video interesting. And presidents: Jan, Sjoukje, BJ, Pieter, Christin,