Hi everyone! Today I'm going to show you a simulation Although I draw inspiration from the evolution to model the real world as it is too complex. I create my own worlds where I set the rules. I'm interested in evolution in a more general And in today's video, you will see the origins mass genocide, and ecological catastrophes. Let us begin with the most boring part- It measures 1800 by 1400 and is divided into Each sector has an area that is exposed to All sectors are numbered and there are no The world is enclosed both horizontally and In those areas that have sunlight, it is possible During the simulation, the level of exposure Only leaf cells can photosynthesize. When a cell dies, some organic matter remains Such organic matter accumulates and when it toxic. Organic matter in the soil can be converted sprouts. Roots are the only cells that can survive After cells die, some energy accumulated by of charges. Similar to organic matter, the accumulated However, unlike organic matter, the charge It slowly dissipates when there's too much of it. The charge is accumulated by cells of the Antennas are the only class of cells that And the last way of gaining energy is by neighbors All types of cells can be eaten except roots Any sprout can gain energy this way. A sprout is the most important class of cells. It is responsible for the prescription of There is always a slight probability of mutation genome will change. This is exactly what triggers the mechanism Cells with a more successful genome have a and populating the world. A sprout can live indefinitely as long as It can move around the field until it produces Each sprout can produce between one and three The sprout itself then turns into wood which energy from the energy-collecting cells to The lifespan of each cell is dependent on The last class of cells is the seed. This is a dormant outgrowth that consumes The organism can occasionally shoot out seeds When a cell's lifespan comes to a close, matter and a charge in the soil. The seed has remained alone and becomes the Using organic poisoning, I divided the world I have placed in each sector 4555 sprouts The majority of these will die, but some may Let's get started. On the screen are fragments of sectors 7 and Some of the genomes generated were successful This is the universal organism. It gets its energy from three sources. All sprouts with unsuccessful genomes ran This sprout is demonstrating the ability to It gets its energy both from the sun as well Although, at the moment, not enough organic Leaves have the ability to produce the largest free space. And when they are near other leaves, net energy Here we have an organism with ideal conditions. Its leaves practically do not touch. It accumulates too much energy without having The cells die and leave energy in the ground And here it even led to the creation of energy However, the energy quickly vanishes and these Only unicellular organisms can move about As for multi-celled organisms, they produce the other. This creates an illusion of movement. From the beginning I made a note of the locality We will refer to these as clans. And here we see the political map of the world You can pick which clan will be dominant by Leave your choices in the comments. Now that you've made your choices, I should This is a map of the build-up of organic matter And in some places, it's already reached We expect the epoch of the emergence of organically-poisoned And we have a live report from the sixth sector. Let us switch to the organic mapping mode. The darker the background the more organic The red areas are those where the build-up support life. With such levels of organic matter in the around it poisonous and this can cause the more organic matter to the soil leading to There's thus a need to avoid reaching such in the soil. However, it is our nature as humans to ignore in time. As it goes, "today is no different from And in the end, it'll be too late. Severe waste problems have started in the The eighth sector is actively using the roots matter. The first sector appears to be trailing behind Let's take a closer look at what's taking One leaf provides energy to one seed. Seeds are being thrown about. But at the same time, if a seed crashes, it into. But the most interesting thing is that before organic matter under it. A simple or perhaps clever method of obtaining excess organic matter. In the meantime, the organisms have begun the sectors. The daredevil crashes headfirst into the wall Well not necessarily headfirst. The death of cells triggers an even spread squares. Thus a large number of deaths near the wall Meanwhile, the second sector has almost drowned And an interesting species has appeared in from organic matter. We can see how as the roots suck out the organic And after the cells die, diffusion takes place- 3 by 3 squares. However, we should keep in mind that roots in an organically poisoned area and for that Meanwhile, some enclosed cavities have formed Let us observe how they fight against the Here, one of the stages of an organism's development matter from the soil, and it does so quite However, there is one issue- these cells are It's good that they live in an enclosed cavity. Meantime, life has disappeared from sector The rest of the sectors have started successfully Sunlight is gradually reducing and the population We are approaching a new epoch: The epoch between different groups, mass killings, and The 7th clan has penetrated into the 3rd sector. The first contact was rather subtle but it's The 7th clan is beginning to occupy the 3rd manner. It appears that no one group is eating another, at occupying free spaces leaving those from They get energy from different sources. Sunlight is currently low and the 3rd clan slowly. This plays right into the hands of the 7th The 7th clan has occupied sector 3 and has It is also trying to penetrate into sector At the same time, an interesting species has Before a sprout produces a branch with a root, This makes it possible to get maximum energy The lawn at my house in the metaverse will And we have breaking news: witnesses are reporting Right now, this is being done modestly, but Meanwhile, the 7th clan has treacherously to squeeze into the places of residence of It has also penetrated into sector 2 which Breaking news: Mass cannibalism has ensued to the walls trying to break through them. They are being helped by compassionate residents In the lower part of sector 5, the refugees which begs the question: are these really Thanks to mutation, sector 1 produced a formidable cleaned out the whole sector and lunged into However, there may have been one or several this predator. And at the time the first clan was trying to occupying the deserted sector 1 which turned In the end, both sectors 1 and 5 were dominated the 1st clan. Meanwhile, the 5th clan cannot restrain its 8th sector. The unicellular predators from the 1st clan Other than that, the 5th clan has gone through From the right-hand side, we can see visiting The local aborigines have a good feature. Before the single cell of a future organism organic matter at the site of future growth We can see that the single-celled predators Let's now digress a little into history. The 7th clan now controls 3 sectors. Clans 1 and 5 have invaded one another and and 8. But take a look at what is happening in the Streams of unicellular predators are tormenting Clan. Note that unicellular predators require a The 6th clan which at some point courageously fell under the invasion of the unicellular However, it wasn't wiped out entirely and Perhaps this species was already in existence Meanwhile, the unicellular predators have and 7. Sector 7 gave up rather quickly but some of The same phenomenon can also be observed in Sector 4 was invaded by the 5th and 1st clans. The indigenous population of the 4th clan Following that, the 1st clan ate all the representatives almost self-destructed by eating each other. The world is trying to recover and rebuild. life won't be the same anymore. I noticed something interesting. An agent from the 1st clan is moving about collecting charge rather than a cell. It died without leaving any descendants, but Everything's spiraling out of control. I'm switching to clan display mode. Remember, a clan is not a species, but direct territorially divided into 8 clans. A clan can have multiple species. Even the unicellular predators from the first They have a similar appearance, but their can be assigned to different species. The organisms have adapted to the constant All those that couldn't adapt died. How they do this, I do not know, it requires What would happen if we created two worlds I conducted a similar experiment on a small and removing the barrier between them when The world where unicellular predators originated not have unicellular predators. So unicellular predators are a kind of immune aliens that do not have time to adapt to them. Alright, it's time to turn it off and go home. In theory, even unicellular predators want That, of course, requires that we run the a long time. However, we currently have a number of projects That's it for today. See you later!