AVGN: It's been ten years since I first began broadcasting And since then I've been trying I just finished upgrading my vinyl and I got a new cell phone! Check it out! And I finally got one of those new rectangular TVs. I've been reorganizing all my game consoles, new shelves, I can now get behind my and of course, the ability to play games in HD clarity! Yeah, high def! Yeah... Now let's play some 8-bits. He's gonna take you back to the past to play the shitty games that suck ass He'd rather have a buffalo take a diarrhea dump in his ear He'd rather eat the rotten asshole of a roadkilled skunk and down it with beer He's the angriest gamer you've ever heard He's the Angry Nintendo Nerd He's the Angry Atari, Sega Nerd He's the Angry Video Game Nerd BLAM! Shootin' shit, runnin' around in your blue underwear! It doesn't get any better than this. It ain't Superman or Ultraman, it's Capcom's Mega Man, a robot hero built by Dr. Light to battle against the evil in the year two... whatever. The 2D gameplay is as classic as they come, with a little bit of Contra, a little Metroid, with its stage select system and the ability Oh, and can't forget about those disappearing blocks. One of the many rules of gaming: Mega Man 2 is favored by many. It's considered to be one of the supreme examples It's the one everybody knows, just like which revolutionized the tournament fighter genre. I guess you can say Capcom It's the simple things that make it so appealing. For example, Mega Man's run cycle: you can see the determination, the pure gallantry! But that doesn't even graze upon The jumping, the mid-air shooting, it's a science It's so badass... [ Quickman Stage - Mega Man II ] ... oh, sorry, I was just playing the game. When you do catch yourself a break to stop and listen, you'll realize you're hearing some of the If only the idea of video game soundtrack You'd get 21 hits in one fantastic collection, including: DA! DUH-DUH-DUH! DA-DU-DU-DUH-DUH DAAAH DU And: DUDLU-DUDLU-DUH, DUDLU-DUDLU-DUH, DUDLU-DUDLU-DUH, DA! DA! DA! DA! DUH! This offer is not available in stores, order today. I remember when Mega Man was a trilogy, but then it became a motherfuckin' hexology! With each installment there were upgrades: and of course each time they had to Snake Man, Needle Man, Hard Man, Tomahawk Man, Kimmy Gibbler The series was impressively consistent. There was a point where it seemed like the team They were machines themselves, pounding Sure, by the time 6 came along it got a little stale, but it was rejuvenated with the featuring a new Mega Man robot called X. Man oh man, if the franchise's foot wasn't now you were about to have your X3 had a lot of cutscenes and X4 is when they moved to the Playstation consoles, But with every new-generation console they want to But the dialogue... ugh! But I can see how they're trying to keep the to keep it fresh and interesting! With X5, it starts right up with text. You know... uh... yeah... After a long introduction, the game starts, or... or... [ Opening Stage X - Mega Man X5] ... okay, alright, we're off now! And things are startin' t-- Oh my god! It's no joke, every five seconds there's more dialog! Can you see a red rope ahead of you... ? I don't know... can I move? CAN I PLAY THE FUCKIN' GAME?! I was just startin' to have fun, and it goes to SHIIIT! FUUCK!! Now everything's exploding! I just started playing the game! Have fuckin' mercy! Every screen there's a bomb you have to defuse, Explosions, dialog... Explosions AND dialog at the same time! Oh my God! [ Sigma 1st - Mega Man X5 ] This is fuckin' horseshit... I've had enough shitty games! I've had it! I quit. [ Ending (Nerd version)- Mega Man II ] 2007 NERD: Like, I gotta get away from I gotta go out somewhere and do something wild! Like get a tattoo on my face, of a goat holding 2007 NERD: And most important, not to play shitty fucking games! Oh my God! 2007 NERD: Who are you? 2007 NERD: I can see that, how'd you get here? I remember this... yeah... I don't know how else to say this, but I'm from the future. There, I said it. Really... ? Do I get the goat tattoo? Obviously not on your face. Look at this old setup. You know, with the original NES You gotta get your RF shit modded into composite. Still blowin' in your cartridges, you gotta get your-- Oh, whoa whoa whoa... 2016 NERD: Why is that there? 2016 NERD: Get rid of it! 2016 NERD: You'll know by Episode 100! Oh yeah, trust me. Just quit, right now. Wh- why? It's my du-- it's OUR duty to review bad What's this here? There's a Mega Man PC game on DOS? MEGA MAN ON DOS!! This is something that'll make you wanna quit! 2007 NERD: Okay, I'll give it a try. First of all, I can't get it to work on a controller. Even after installing all kinds of shit, So I'm gonna have to use the keyboard. Imagine playing a Mega Man game on a keyboard! Where's the jump key... nngh! Argh! What's up with the colors? You have it set to CGA. You know, if you were playing on the most up-to-date Have you forgotten? We gotta There was a time when it was common Why of all colors did they pick I don't know, but that's how it was! Why is there a toll booth? Mega Man can't pass without paying a toll?! Does he have E-ZPass? I can't outrun this dog! Oh, get away! Get away!! 2016 NERD: Shoot 'em! 2016 NERD: Then run! Just run! Run! Run! 2007 NERD: I can't! He jumps so fuckin' far! Eat a bowl of fuck, you assholian! Uggh!! It's the first screen of the game! You can't get 'em off you! You can't outrun Well, I guess that's as far as we can get. Good! No more of that. 2016 NERD: Oh, you did it! You gotta keep going now! So after that you get the classic Mega Man No matter which stage you pick, you're always No creative robot enemies, nothing And they're all too short to hit! If you can't shoot on the ground, Why are the E Tanks always in a puzzling spot? As if the game was deliberately designed They even put arrows telling you to move to the left. So not only do you get to die, These things are like magnets, And you're trying to get through this Did both these things have to exist in the same place? And then once the disappearing Remember, I'm playing on a keyboard. Fortunately, with the sequel, the controller works, but... Mega Man 3? No, I didn't skip 2. They did. There was no Mega Man 2 for PC, probably because the real Mega That would have made sense if this were You can say it's a big step up from the but for some reason they decided to Typically in the Mega Man games, the your combat strategy and knowing But this is all about navigating a maze. If you want a good where-the-fuck-do-I-go Ugh! See? This shit is a waste of life! You don't believe me? Play some I think I will! And you know what, Nerd? You should play more of those bad Mega Man games. Nerd? 2006 NERD: Who's gonna want to play this piece I have a better chance of cloning myself! NERD 1: So fuckin' bad it sucks! NERD 1: It's so suckin' fuck... NERD 3: What a piece of fuckin' shit. I'm in a dream, I can do whatever I want, so why NERD 2: Yeah! NERD 4: Yeah! The hell with that damn shit! NERD 3: The hell with that damn fuckin' shit! 2016 AVGN: THE HELL WITH THAT GODDAMN MOTHERFUCKIN' BULLSHIT!! NERD 2: Wh- what?? NERD 4: I can't fuckin' believe this! Look, I know this sounds weird, but I've sort of Yeah, that's weird. We've never NERD 4: What's AVGN? A VaGiNa. NERD 3: So what time did you come from? That's nice. Could you have picked Not confusing at all! Time-travelling back into a dream? That happens all the time! Makes perfect fuckin' sense! Relax. Alright now, look, I could tell you that Freddy's but I'm gonna show you how Here is Mega Man Legends on PlayStation. PlayStation? We're the Angry Nintendo Nerd! Then change the fuckin' name! It's about time. How about Angry Nintendo Commentator? NERD 3: How about Retro Nostalgic NERD 4: How about Nostalgia Critic? Now that's fuckin' stupid. How about Angry Video Game Nerd? NERD 4: Yeah, that's good. Mega Man Legends was when the series In the late nineties it was almost like a law: So the game begins, and... Ugh... that explains it all. Don't you think I can see?! Don't worry, I CAN'T move! Oh, what, that thing in front of me? Not far from my current position? Use the Circle button?! Really?! That's not at all what I was just about to do! The control is horrific. You know how in Mario 64 and Zelda: Ocarina of Time, You push the joystick in the direction you In Mega Man Legends, it's nothing at all like that. Instead, the D-pad moves you while you rotate your viewpoint At least that's the best I can explain the controls. The game was later released on the Nintendo 64, In this version the controls are slightly better, despite coming out three years later which set a very clear standard on how Hey, Link wants his rupees back. Treasures? What is this, Mega Man Some say this game is good, in the same way some people say anchovies It's an adventure game that serves as an It's more about exploring and watching a story I never imagined I'd be talking to a monkey and Go to the shopping area? Huh, imagine Mega Man walking into Staples. But wait, that's not far off! Here Mega Man is walking into a Mega Man shopping! [chuckles] He's walking into a CD store! Really?! What kinda music would Mega Man buy? Does this place have all popular crap, Like Witchfinder General. Look! He doesn't have a reflection in the mirror! Mega Man's a vampire! He can't even walk right! How is everybody so casual?! Try that sometime: Walk into a department store, turn [ Jazz music ] NERD 1: What?!? NERD 2: Mega Man's looking at porn! My life is complete!! Mega Man X, more like Mega Man Triple-X! Well anyway, this guy's gotta take a shit, so take out that Nightmare on Elm Street I wish you would have said that earlier. NERD 2: Eugh! You diarrhea fiend!! NERD 3: Y-your shit's so nasty, it just - It reminded Future Nerd of the shitty Back to the Or I just overthought it. FREDDY: Overthink this, bitch!! 2004 NERD: You'd rather super-glue your asshole shut You'd rather... you know, the thing is... You think I'm joking, like I'm But no, the fact that that game exists That game is so fuckin' horrible... and I am not kidding. I am dead fuckin' serious. DEAD. FUCKIN'. SERIOUS. 2016 NERD: Yes you are. I must be drinkin' too much. I ain't seein' this, man! Drinkin' too much... yeah, but you ARE seein' this. 2016 NERD: I'm you, from the future. And I need your help. Does this have anything to do No! But it concerns shitty games. Good... anything but Jekyll and Hyde! So tell me, how far into the future do About twelve years, almost. What, are you fuckin' kidding me?! You didn't play Jekyll and Hyde again, did you?! No, never! Mm-mm. What's this? Mega Man X7 for PlayStation 2? Yeah, that just came out last fall. Oh man... I'm retro! [ No Holdin' Back demo- Mega Man X7 ] The first thing to note is that you don't even play as Instead you switch between Zero Now think about that name, I noticed Izzy, Duff, Adler and Slash! Beyond any coincidence, they've been naming That is awesome. The game doesn't even know whether it wants I guess you could say it has variety, but I can't see a damn thing! According to the manual, you can adjust the angle Like how my cats shit in designated spots. Zero uses a lightsaber, but Axl is equipped with a gun. You'd think this gun would operate It should almost make you forget the same way Mega Man and Well... no. They turned it into Now there's an automated targeting system. Now it's all about mashing buttons. When I see a bunch of targets, As soon as one target is destroyed, it immediately Changing the established gameplay A B.M. A real shitty move. I've seen the worst. I just got Well... you can't say they didn't anything new, because every stage feels like In some ways that's cool, but not when THIS happens! Get me out of Neon Hexagon Land! I don't even understand how to play this! Then it flips upside down! And not What a piece of shit. The progression of the Mega Man Once it reaches the top, it gets a whole lot You'd rather super-glue your dickhole shut. If you ever find a copy of this game, do yourself a favor and bury it under the fragments of the Jekyll and Hyde So there you go! Proof that it sucked back then! Yeah, I know by your time they're Nah, Mega Man kinda stopped... Well, that's good. You never rush out Otherwise you end up putting out shit. Some franchises get done to death. You can't Yeah... but I do miss the Mega Man Hm... if you had a series, what would YOU do? I couldn't imagine. I wish I had something like that. If people wanted it, that'd be a great thing. You can't do the same thing but every now and then... it's good to bring it back. Thanks. Bugs Bunny: This game fuckin' sucks! Nyeeh, what a shitload of fuck! What were they thinking?! AVGN: Hey! What's going on here?! Nyeeh, I got you covered, Nerd! You quit! You said 'So long Screwy, see ya in St. Louie!' It's all good. You never have to play a bad [ Power Up - Bugs Bunny Birthday Blowout ] Hey, you know what? Thanks. Thanks, I appreciate it... Nyeeh! Now cut that out! NYEEEEEHHH!! FUCK YOU!! NYYEEEEEEAAAAHHH! I'm back! It's yours truly, the fuckin' Nerd! Here to play some more shitty games! Ah... aaaahh!! Wha-- ?? W- WHAT!? WERE!? THEY?! THINKIIING!?! He's the Angry Video Game Nerd