This is how we used to People used to program a computer or a paper and feeding it into the computer. This is known as punch card programming. And this was one of the earliest actually wasn't that long ago. Punch card programming was used well And even if you've used punch It's still pretty insane to think the birth of what we know as But also, researching how it For its time, this was an The story of punch card And like any crazy but to start at the very beginning. How did computer And believe it or not, the seeds of none other than the textile industry. Yes, punch card programming was But to keep things specific, the In 1801 Joseph Marie Jacquard invention of the jacquard loom. Yes, a loom started this whole thing. At the time, textiles And I'm going to explain how because it's fascinating. But also, when you you will realize that this is automation, which essentially And this was done in the early 1800s. To weave a fabric on a loom threads a thread called a weft, which passes over This crisscrossing of threads pattern actually depends on the way Before the jacquard system, a had to manually raise and lower the warp This was a slow, tedious process I imagine it wasn't very d his machine, the Jacquard loom, and his loom introduced punch cards. This is how it worked. First, a designer draws or paints their Something like this. A card maker then converts this For each unpainted square in the while for each painted the punch cards, each representing a together and fed into the jacquard The card is inserted And the pins pass through each specific threads on the loom. Where there are no holes, corresponding thread stays down. As the shuttle moves across the loom, It weaves the fabric based on the In layman's terms, this was a instructions that could be changed, i. e. programmed, and produce And this was in 1804. This loom innovation essentially The widespread adoption of Jacquard's producing intricate, fashionable fabrics. Such fabrics, which were once now could be mass produced, making them affordable It also significantly reduced Interestingly, this is a clear has and continues to have even now. once Jacquard's invention reached The idea to use punch cards to was invaluable. And it spread like wildfire. So we know the idea of a to automate some processes. Was born in the early 1800s and methods and discussions closely In 1832, Semen Korsakov, pronunciation, developed techniques for searching through he used for the Russian police ministry. Around the same time English mathematician by Jacquard's punch card system. And he proposed that similar cards although Babbage never actually turned the late 19th century, punch cards such as railway conductors using to libraries using punch cards In the late 1880s, American engineer named conductor punch tickets and had an idea. You see, Herman Hollerith S. Census Bureau, the bureau that data for the American citizens. The U. S. Census Bureau had taken eight And it was feared that the 1890 Hollerith knew that there was a They just could not take a decade So he invented a machine that information for the 1890 count, The major breakthrough was the count, and sort punch cards. Whose holes represented data Interestingly, Hollerith's punch cards S. dollar bill at the time, making His machines were used in the 1890 census and accomplished in one year what would have likely taken So because of his success, In machine company to apply his In 1911, his company merged with computing tabulating recording company. In 1924, This was finally Business Machine Corporation. And if that sounds familiar, it's There were many other similar companies, but IBM grew to really dominate And that's essentially the But the next question is how on earth But before we do that, here's a Today's Video is brought Look, I'll admit it. I spend a lot of time online, but that just means I've learned Now, if you're thinking that Yeah, not really. Your ISP, public wifi, and even websites So that's why I trust Surfshark VPN. With Surfshark, all my internet through their secure servers. Which means my online Luckily. no snoopers, no tracking, And here's a good part. If there is a movie or show that African Netflix isn't doing it for me. Surfshark has over 3, 200 countries to work around that. Netflix, Amazon prime. I can just finally watch whatever I want. Surfshark doesn't keep any logs. So even they don't know what you're up to. And as a bonus, they so you can browse without any It's smoother, safer browsing all around. And my favorite part, unlimited This means I can secure Laptop, phone, tablet, plus share No device counting, no swapping Right now, Surfshark has got Four extra months free. just go to surfshark. com slash coding with D and try it out. with their 30 day money back Now back to the video. So in 1911, IBM was created and In 1937, IBM was churning blank punch cards a day. In the first half of the 20th century, They were designed to take a precise grid consisting of 80 columns by 12 rows. And they were used in an enormous variety From accounting records Before even getting to the punch code by hand on special coding sheets. These coding sheets were pre formatted the reason for this was simple, there So everything had to be done them into the punch cards. Popular programming languages at and the assembly language. These languages were chosen high level programming languages that could be compiled into machine Machine code is the code it's like the computer's For simplicity's sake, It's a bunch of ones and zeros. And that was an issue because naturally understand that. And this is why early programming COBOL and Assembly were used. It's a lot more easier Once a programmer had written out the next step was to convert into physical punch cards. This was done using a key punch that could punch holes in the When writing a program, one card So programs could have hundreds making it a tedious task. After the punch cards were created, the first being the boot card of some sort. This boot card was hopefully And this card had to go in first. It was just to ensure that the how the data was arranged and remember every card represented card needed to be in order. that is why position matters. if you dropped the cards, well, you are need to physically put them back in order. Once that was done, the next step was to The cards were then which is a device that could read the into machine readable instructions. The card reader used and this could detect the in each column of the card. These patterns were then translated zeros, which is machine code. which the computer could I Do have to note that they were different methods to read punch cards. But essentially the computer would read And the set of cards would contain computer should do, like adding to be used in the calculations. And eventually the computer Which leads me to my next question. How do you read a punch card? All right, we're here, we're going This is exciting. So this is what we have. We have a punch card. We have a EBCD table, which stands Now in very simple terms, this EBCD table. was developed by IBM to it's almost like a key or a map. So using this punch card as line is a human readable code. It's a code that we understand, So our line of code is this. And remember that one punch card So a program at the time Now this specific punch card contains part This is Fortran. and this top line represents which is Z1 is equal to Y plus U1. So this line of code looks like where the value of Z1 is being Now let's talk about the juicy part. The actual card. As I said before, the card has 80 columns and each column represents a being a letter, a number, a symbol. Then you have 10 rows numbered and these represent the positions You do get some cards which have top to allow for special characters. But it's not illustrated in this example. there are two unmarked rows above. I don't know why it's unmarked, but feel free to educate me about this. Unfortunately, how to read punch cards I've only seen one blog post that I'll link it in the description below. The black marks in this punch and these indicate a specific original FORTRAN statement given. now this is a format of there are a few different But this is how you read So looking And let's start with the letter to program Z, looking at column seven, we can see that row zero Now we look at our map. So we look at row 0 and row 9, look at where they intersect, corresponds to that line of code. So that's how the programmer would holes and then referring to the map. Now let's do the next character of our This is in column eight. We have row Y, which is here, but that's how it is in the punch cards. Who am I to judge? We also have row five and So, we go back to our map, we which is an open bracket. So it does seem that adding those unmarked characters to be programmed, on this card why they are unmarked and not labelled. So now that we know the process, Let's do an equal sign on column 12. So we have nothing in x and y, but we have both row 6 and row 8 punched. So let's go to our map one last time, and we know that 0, x, So we're looking at this row, Which and where it intersects with six dash And that's how you read a punch card. So what happens is that each have to be punched like this. And you can't make any mistakes then read it incorrectly. And like I said, complicated applications But still, it's pretty cool knowing And there you have it, punch card forms of computer programming. This is the start of it all. There are so many things that are part of programming history. And it just all started with this Who would have thought? And then everyone thinking, We should apply this in other processes. But what really stands out, especially how advanced this was for its era. Punch cards allowed people to automate in ways that were extraordinary. And I do feel like it And like I said, even if you do search documentation as you would hope for. I'm guessing because the era after computer, which obviously stole the programming is a story worth telling. because it's incredible to think how 50 years ago, since they were last to appreciate where it all began. Thank you so much for watching. As always, if you like my content, I'll see you on the next one.