- I recently made a video and Pratt &amp; Whitney's would compete to power but after that video, quite &quot;Hey, what about Rolls-Royce? Couldn't the UltraFan engine also be a part of this engine war?&quot; Well, the answer to that Stay tuned. (playful chime) So let's start with having to better understand Rolls-Royce was first founded by Charles Rolls and Henry Royce. Those two partners had for almost two decades at that point, building different machinery before founding Rolls-Royce Less than a decade later already underway, the company called The Eagle which powered But actually the company more out of necessity than by choice because while Rolls, in particular, was interested in the company was doing reasonably well making luxury cars so there to risk that by going into a new venture. But, obviously, after the war broke up, there wasn't much of a market for luxury cars anymore, into aircraft engines Rolls-Royce ended up making over four and a half and they continued making even after the first world war had ended. But it was during the second world war that their engines That was mainly thanks which was actually the last engine that Henry Royce designed himself but, sadly, he never got This awesome engine powered the famous Hurricane as well as the Mosquito, the Halifax and the Lancaster bombers. In the United States, were given a license to make mainly for the P-51 Mustang many of those American-made Merlins actually made it into British Over 200,000 Merlin engines Packard and other wartime producers. And plenty of those 27-liter V12 monsters engines are still around today, powering a variety of flying warbirds. Now Rolls-Royce had started already during the second world war, designing and making before the end of the 1940s also acquired Bristol Siddeley, another jet-engine maker. Now this was a big deal a number of key engine projects. An example of that was the Pegasus engine which powered the Harrier jump jet and the Olympus engine, different versions of which and even the Concorde. Between all of their activities, had made engines tanks, hovercrafts, warships and, of course, several In the modern world the most important jet engine that Rolls-Royce produced This was a very successful that powered aircraft and many of Boeing's 747s, 757s and 767s and even a few Russian Tupolev Tu-204s. But even though it ultimately the RB211, unfortunately, The company had vastly underestimated how time-consuming this engine would ultimately become. Rolls-Royce went under receivership who had already subsidized the company to keep ended up restructuring And this, by the way, was the time when Rolls-Royce car and aero It took years before Rolls-Royce could finally start reaping the rewards of the RB211's eventual success. But the company was helped by the fact that a lot turbofan and turboprop engines, continued to be used both This meant that these and maintenance which provided a steady flow of even during its darkest times. And that's a point Rolls-Royce has since continued for various industries, including, but when it comes to the future, the direction that the company has taken during the last few decades is now raising some serious questions, including the one that Could Rolls-Royce actually offer an engine for a Boeing 737 an engine that Could truly compete with CFM's future RISE open fan or Pratt &amp; Whitney's geared turbofan? And if that is the case, that will do it? Well, I will look into As an airline pilot, being able is a great asset to have to tell you about You see, Speakly is not just it's actually a game-changer created by two who both speak seven languages each. They spent over six years researching thousands in order to come up which focuses on teaching words enabling you to learn and in a much more relevant and fun way. On average, research has shown up to five times faster instead of traditional techniques, meaning that you can learn as three to four months if you only spend 30 minutes per day on the app. The app is super flexible and I am currently using it (Petter speaks Spanish) The app is available and if you use my then you can try it for free also receive a 60% discount So thank you, Speakly. A major criticism of Rolls-Royce today is that it has missed of the airline market. The company has developed a number of commercially- in recent years, most whose designs drew Actually, when the Trent it was marketed as an updated, And the number of aircraft has actually powered is quite impressive. Rolls-Royce currently makes versions of the Trent engines the Boeing 787, the Airbus A330, And, interestingly, a marine version of the Boeing 777 Trent variant also powers a number including Britain's two Anyway, between the RB211 is covering quite a But, crucially, with the exception of the long-out-of-production Boeing 757, all of these aircraft are And that turns out to be quite of aircraft production and, therefore, sales of engines, single-aisle aircraft like the Boeing 737 outsell wide bodies many times over. That's actually why they call the bread and butter Now, to be fair, Rolls-Royce the single-aisle aircraft Some of its larger business jet engines have also powered like the Boeing 717 but beyond that, Rolls-Royce also had in the single-aisle market. They were a key partner which provided one option the other being the CFM56. The V2500 also powered which preceded the Boeing 717. And more recently, the V2500 the Embraer KC-390, roughly the size In total, IAE; which stands made over 7,600 V2500 engines which is a very significant number. Now, originally, there Rolls-Royce and Pratt &amp; Whitney, each had 30% stake; the Japanese Aero Engine MTU in Germany had 11% And given its participation with the A320 operators, to continue to concentrate business jets and helicopters. But the thing was that in IAE ended in 2011. In October that year, Rolls-Royce's shares and, at the time, the idea was that Rolls-Royce would eventually join Pratt &amp; Whitney in developing the PW1100G but that never happened. What did happen was that by exiting the IAE joint venture, Rolls-Royce stopped getting a share in revenue from servicing and overhauling And that turned out Remember, during previous rough times for Rolls-Royce, maintenance, was really the only thing rolling in for them. So losing a steady flow from the single-aisle airliner market was a truly big loss and, potentially, a threatening case of Now, at this point, it's probably about how jet engine manufacturers actually make their money nowadays. You see, developing is ridiculously expensive, so expensive that, realistically, get anything even close simply by designing and No, the profit from developing an engine, instead will come over time, as the engine goes through maintenance, And important in this story have taken this principle one step further with the introduction of their Power-by-the-Hour service contracts. What this means is that an airline pays a relatively small upfront amount to purchase the engines they then pay Rolls-Royce which includes the engine Think of this as a subscription kind of like how it's cheap as long as you sign up with a network company. This actually works great under normal circumstances because for the airlines, and service cost very and for the engine maker, the agreement assures and very predictable needs parts and other things. But that also assumes to plan and that the planes and building up those billable hours. Obviously, and unfortunately a couple of reasons why this in recent years. One reason involves which powers the Boeing 787. This engine entered service in 2011 but less than five years later, engineers found was causing cracks in Dozens of aircrafts were grounded because of these problems, and also costing Rolls-Royce billions. As Scott Hamilton explains for these engines forced Rolls-Royce to slow down maintenance work which obviously ended up costing them more time and even more money. And then came 2020, a year that will live in infamy in the aviation world. Obviously, everyone in aviation was hit by the pandemic in different ways but as I've explained in previous videos, long-haul flying took much longer to recover after the In reality, it took as long so almost three years, And since Rolls-Royce for wide bodies and were relying on those Power-by-the-Hour they suffered very badly. - Rolls-Royce, one of the greatest names in British engineering, to reveal the economic - With regards to the future, yet another bit of bad luck, and this finally brings Originally, the UltraFan was planned to be Rolls-Royce's answer to Pratt &amp; Whitney's geared turbofan. It is a completely which would replace the Trent family but also give the possibility into smaller sizes in order Now, if it all goes well for Rolls-Royce, the UltraFan might But a few years ago, because Rolls-Royce thought a customer ready to go The idea was that the UltraFan on their New Midsized Airplane or NMA, which Boeing was planning to launch. This was, of course, before completely changed all of Boeing's plans but we'll get to that in a second. The problem was that Boeing, that the NMA should be an impossibly tight deadline tested and certified. And it was that 2025 NMA launch date that was the reason that Rolls-Royce cited when they announced that they were actually withdrawing to provide an engine for it. Of course, what actually was that Boeing later before ultimately canceling them in 2020 during their scramble following the 737 MAX groundings. But Boeing's change of plans meant that if Rolls-Royce now wants to, they should have plenty of time to finish developing the UltraFan engine before Boeing or Airbus that will actually need it. So will they? Well, to try to understand that, we have to look at can put to the table, compared are already doing with their designs. As I explained in detail on this subject, one key technology is the geared fan which Pratt &amp; Whitney brought to the single-aisle market first but General Electric and Safran who makes up CFM, by adopting the open fan architecture of the RISE engine. The other key technology is the use of advanced ceramic matrix composites that enables the engines and, therefore, more efficiently. Together with those technologies, to miniaturize their engine to help them increase So what is Rolls-Royce Well, like the other engine manufacturers, Rolls is investing in designed to bring down the weight of its next engine significantly. The British company is also fitting the UltraFan with a gearbox than the rest of the core. So that's very similar But as some of you guys pointed out in the comments in my previous video, Rolls-Royce has also pioneered a three-spool jet-engine design. Now that's a bit too in this video but it is basically the different parts of a jet engine rotate at different speeds in the rear to drive The UltraFan will also have to reduce emissions and fuel burn and a new configuration which is necessary since the fan at the front now has On top of that, when Rolls-Royce also mentioned a variable-pitch fan system. This would allow its design and that's actually something with the CFM RISE engine, if they choose to go down that path. But, sadly, there hasn't been any mention of this variable-pitch fan in more recent So we don't really know In any case, the first UltraFan engine which Rolls-Royce tested had an overall pressure ratio of 14:1 which is pretty spectacular. By comparison, the highest of any Trent engine is 50:1 and the highest bypass ratio, 10:1. But we are not really interested with previous Rolls-Royce engines. We want to figure out how or the Next Generation And the problem with doing that is that making an apples is practically impossible in this case. And that's obviously of the Rolls-Royce UltraFan that I haven't mentioned At the moment, the world's largest which is actually in service which powers Boeing's new 777X. The cowling of that engine that it actually has a larger diameter than the hull of the 737 that I fly. Now the fan diameter or 340.4 centimeters the Rolls-Royce UltraFan prototype has a diameter of 140 inches In other words, Rolls-Royce the UltraFan to fit decided to start the ball rolling by building an engine that is 6 inches or about 15 centimeters bigger than the world's currently So why would they do that? Well, one explanation wanted to test the most that such an engine might require in order to drive And to be fair, they did achieve that. Their gearbox is rated at 50 megawatts and reached 63 megawatts in testing. That's about 87,000 horsepower. It is quite possible that on the size of their they had stopped thinking from Boeing or Airbus and on a direct replacement Maybe they also had a thought about providing a to the current quad-engine jumbos out there. Who knows? But what this means for our comparison is that we won't know compared to existing makers Rolls says that the UltraFan could be scaled to thrust levels to 110,000 pounds But we know from experience is scaled up or down, will also change. The UltraFan's 14:1 bypass ratio but will it stay that high Remember Pratt and Witney's Anyway, the good news is that the current surge is finally returning it At the height of the pandemic, to put the UltraFan into storage as soon as initial testing was completed but that doesn't seem Rolls-Royce would still need but being on solid financial footing and with little appetite for the new airliner it seems that for once, Rolls-Royce probably have time on their side to continue working on its concepts. Maybe we will see a and only then will we be able to the other competition. So what do you guys think? Let me know in the comments below. And leave a like if you liked the video. Now if you did like this video, the other videos I've done And you can check them out here. Also check out some using the links in the description below and consider taking part that helps me produce these videos. Have an absolutely fantastic day and I'll see you next time, bye-bye.