Hi, hello my loves, how was your weekend? . Today we will cook just a super delicious apple pie from the simplest products, but with a little secret. I'm willing to bet that many of the times this charlotte has not yet been tried. Everything is very simple. Two apples, three eggs and you're done . Let's take a big bowl. We break three chicken eggs, large or medium in size. In the comments, someone said that it's indecent to express yourself like that in the kitchen . My love, don't be so boring . Remember at least the fairy tale about the chicken Ryaba: &quot;The chicken laid an egg, but not a simple one, but a golden one.&quot; Well, if you suddenly didn't read such a fairy tale, it's not my fault . But it's better to read it anyway - this is folk art . I pour 150 g of sugar into the eggs (this is 6 tablespoons with a slide), if you do not use scales. Let's invite our beloved friend to the kitchen. Of course, it's a mixer . I have such an old one, he is already 100 years old at lunchtime))). But it still helps me a lot! Oh, I almost forgot: add a pinch of salt to enhance the taste. Although, you know, personally, I don't always add salt to my baked goods, and I don't see much of a difference when it's ready to bake. Beat the eggs with sugar for literally 5 minutes (you can use the timer), the main thing is that the mass becomes fluffy, white and increasing in volume. My beloved, just look how many kind words you write to me! I am so grateful for your kind words and support! . Because from you comes such a powerful energy of love that I always feel!. Look, the eggs are so well beaten. They are white and fluffy. The mass has increased in volume and it is now so light and airy, and the sugar has almost dissolved. Now we take a pack of oil. I have 180 g in a pack, but we will not need the whole pack. For the pie, we need 120 g of butter. It should be soft, at room temperature, so it's better to take the butter out of the refrigerator in advance. I add 120 g of butter to the eggs. You can clean the pack of oil so that nothing is lost. Thrifty housewives don't throw anything away . Now it's time for the main character of our pie. This is cottage cheese. Imagine, charlotte with cottage cheese ... There will be deliciousness! The dough will be very soft! Here I have 250 g of cottage cheese. You can take cottage cheese of any fat content, I have cottage cheese of 5% fat content. I send the cottage cheese to a bowl. Many of you are already experienced housewives and are well aware of how the quality of the products affects the final result, the finished baking. Therefore, depending on what kind of cottage cheese you have, how fat it is, how wet, etc. - you will need to add a little more or less flour to the dough. You will be guided by consistency. A little later, I will explain in a little more detail when we look at the density of the dough. I take the mixer again and beat the eggs well with butter and cottage cheese for 1-2 minutes. Cottage cheese will beat well into a homogeneous mass without lumps. There will be no grains of cottage cheese in the dough. But, of course, it also depends on the quality of the cottage cheese itself. And if you really want to, you can punch the cottage cheese with a blender or rub it through a sieve to make the dough perfectly smooth and uniform. I don't wipe cottage cheese through a sieve, so as not to wash a bunch of dishes later . Ready! Cottage cheese with butter and eggs beaten enough. and what now remains for us to do is add flour with baking powder to the dough. I take 240 g of flour (this is 8 tablespoons with a large slide). I pour a bag of baking powder into the flour - this is 2 tsp. Mix a little so that the flour and baking powder are mixed. And now I add flour along with baking powder to the dough. I will definitely sift. And mix the dough well. I mixed with a spatula. I tried to use a mixer, but all the dough just wrapped around the beaters of the mixer :). So, try it yourself, how it will be more convenient for you to mix. The main thing, if with the help of a mixer, then always at low speed, and not at high speed. All the guys, the dough is ready, look how thick the dough turned out. I want to note that my dough turned out to be quite thick, because. it is quite cold in my kitchen (temperature is not higher than 20 degrees Celsius). Therefore, the butter, which is in the dough, immediately froze a little, and due to this, the dough is thicker. That is, if it is hot in your kitchen, then the oil will not harden as quickly and the dough will turn out to be less thick. here are such minor nuances, such as, for example, cold butter in the dough, but you see how this can change the result . So in the kitchen, especially in baking, everything is important. For a successful cake - there are no trifles :). For now, set the dough aside and work on the apples. First, I remove the seeds from the apples. I have something for this. It is already very, very old. Oh pa! See what a transformer: it enters and exits!))) But it's okay, I won't give up until I remove all the seeds from apples . Friends, write from which country or city are you watching us? I'm glad to get to know each of you! . Now we cut each apple in half or into 4 parts (depending on the size of the apples and on the size of your form). I want to make an original decoration for our apple curd charlotte (apple pie), you will like it. The apples were cut. Now we take a half or a quarter of an apple and make such cuts. We cut the apple, but do not cut through to the end. That's how it works. My friends, as I said, you write a lot of comments, and I am very pleased to read them . But among the large number of positive and friendly comments, sometimes there are such ones. They sound differently, for example, they can sound like this: "Why are you talking so much" or "Why are you cutting apples for a long time, I'm already tired"! . or like this &quot;Oh God, what a sickly sweet voice and in general you need to cut your nails, take off your ring, put on gloves, and wash your eggs&quot;!!! . My beloved, I know that you know better what I need to do in my kitchen, so you advise . But, dear ones, you shouldn't write all this, because there can't be two captains on the same ship and 2 housewives in the same kitchen . Two women in the kitchen will not get along, whatever one may say! Therefore, write a better joke if you want to say something smart . I just love jokes and humor. Want to tell a joke? . Phone call: - Hello, mom!? - Yes, yes, I cooked dinner, washed the dishes, graduated from school, graduated from college, got married, had children, can I go for a walk? . By the way, I really understand those who have little time. Therefore, I also have a great option for you . I have another cooking channel where I post recipes that you will definitely like. There is absolutely no my voice on that channel, just recipes for pleasant music. Welcome!. I will leave a link to my channel with recipes (without voice, without voice acting) for you in the description under the video. I will be glad to everyone! . Look, we've already cut the apples. Now we take the form for baking. My form, 20 cm in size. And I spread apples on top - like this. Friends, please write, from which city or country are you watching me? I'm glad to get to know each of you! . Look, my darlings, how beautiful it looks! The cake immediately takes on a festive look. And it really will turn out very tasty, very beautiful! You will be delighted! I preheated the oven. Oven temperature: 180 degrees Celsius. The cake will bake for 45-50 minutes. I always give approximate baking time and temperature, look at your oven. Check the readiness of the pie with a toothpick: if the toothpick comes out dry from the middle of the pie, without traces of raw dough, then you can take out the pie and serve it to the table. My beloved, just look at what a handsome man I just got out of the oven! . The scent is simply divine! It spreads throughout the kitchen, throughout the house. The cake is still very hot and burns your hands. Now I'll take a mitten and try to get the cake out of the mold. Look, my beloved, the apples have retained their shape and they just decorate this cake. From above, I don't even want to decorate it somehow additionally. You can, of course, sprinkle with powdered sugar if you prefer. I'll sprinkle a little. Although he is simply gorgeous without powder! Now let's cut off a piece and we'll try. Guys, you have no idea what a tender cake turned out! Fluffy, airy apple pie charlotte on cottage cheese dough! So soft on the inside and completely well baked. Cottage cheese dough, very, very tasty! My husband said that the pie somehow reminds him of manna in taste, although there is no semolina here, you yourself know :). Thanks to cottage cheese, such an interesting texture and a very interesting taste are obtained. Incredible pie! Be sure to check out the recipe just a miracle! All products are very simple and prepared very simply. Friends, if you liked the pie recipe, please write in the comments &quot;I want a pie&quot; I will be very happy! I will also be glad if you write from which city or country you are watching me. Don't forget to share the recipe with your friends and family on social media. networks. Let me remind you that Olesya was with you on the Cooking at Home channel. I wish you all bon appetit, delicious cake, good mood! Be healthy! All the best to you, cook everything with love, then you will get deliciously beautiful and just great! Bye bye, love you all and see you soon! .