This is the hardest AI generated Minecraft And today I'm going to try and beat it and to humanity. How? Well ChatGPT will generate 10 different chambers That is, any more than 3 that I fail to solve, If I solve 7 or more, I win, and humanity I mean surely this shouldn't be hard, AI needed to create a Minecraft esca- What in the world is this? There is not a single placeable block. I have slime, string, feathers, and seeds that exit. There's no way this is possible. I checked my crafting recipes and all I could Without a crafting table I was literally helpless. Even using the chest holding the items which get me any closer. I had no idea how to solve this puzzle and leaving me with only two more until I lose This was a terrible start, but I couldn't So, with a score of 0-1 I asked ChatGPT for what I missed. Craft leads without a crafting table, create and float up with chickens. This solution was nonsense. This escape room was never possible to begin And this challenge just got ridiculously harder. The AI has no idea what it's talking about, escape rooms. Which meant I had to do everything in my power Any dimension, any version, any possible glitch I was going to win against the AI, no matter In room number two I got 15 dirt blocks, a And my task, to pillar up 25 blocks. Simply stacking up with my dirt would leave And crafting my snowballs into snow and using ChatGPT's solution was absolutely atrocious stuck. It looked like again I had a completely impossible If not for one thing. The rod. Behind pearls, boats, and water the fishing in an escape room. Why? Well if I pillar high enough and break blocks the dirt back up to me. Well, in theory at least. And after messing around for a few minutes me to jump down and collect all the dirt I And with a little climbing, there it was. I got the blocks, and made it up. The score was 1-1. If I wanted to score a win for humanity, I 8 rooms. The third room was less straightforward. I had a decent mix of redstone supplies but the 40 block room. But the slime block and pistons could only A launcher. I tried launching myself up to see how far Not bad but I quickly realized the problem. Once I launched once I would lose my slime I could keep my lever but that wouldn't I then tried to break the slime block as I If I could keep it before moving to the next Problem is, while a piston is firing it turns where the slime block is in a limbo state Meaning it's unbreakable while it's launching That was a dead end. It seemed like I was getting nowhere until Bud powering, or if you want to sound smart, This piston shouldn't be powered but that through a quirk of redstone. If I could have every piston double extend per piston. And just like that, one lever, two pistons And if I used my other lever, I could get But was it even possible, and would it even Well I had to try to find out. I spent around 15 minutes just messing around bud setup. I went on the wiki to read more and even watched to master how it works. Except after all that I realized, for the only way to get 2 blocks out of each piston gravel. And after multiple failed attempts I realized Even if I had extra levers, even if I boosted meant to have. Even if all of that worked in my favor, I This room seemed completely impossible. I would have to take yet another strike. Putting me at 1-2 in the first three rounds. But I had one more ace up my sleeve. Version changes. I could play the escape room in any version was given. So there was one update I went to. 23w13a_or_b, the vote update. If you don't know by pressing V in this game changing proposals. Now I could wait here for the next hour or in between the 181 possible votes. Or I could just speed up the inevitable for Bouncy castle. Which turns every slime block into an infinite humanity. With 7 rooms left to decide if humans are the bag. Its ideal solution to this 20 block puzzle this iron, and no sticks, to craft a pickaxe, What it failed to realize, is that you can lava. And just water yourself out. And just like that the score is 3-1 for humanity. If I win just over half of the remaining games But just when I thought it was getting better. What is this? ChatGPT dropped this absolute bombshell of 35 blocks with only 12 solid blocks to use. Even if I could actually hit myself with a I could use the chest, both repeaters, the would still be 12 blocks short of the exit. I checked the wiki page of quartz to see if of Minecraft history that made quartz useful. There was nothing. I was totally helpless, and just like that, If I lost two more times out of the next 5 challenge. So this next room, had to be a win. Immediately these supplies screamed one thing Snowman. There had to be some way I could utilize snow The room was 15 blocks tall and all the AI and 6 dirt blocks. Simply pillaring up would not be enough, I'd my two snow, 4 blocks short. The first move I thought I had to do was shear Without this I couldn't hope to spawn any it I wouldn't really be losing any blocks room. But then what? Snowmen can make snow layers that I could way to collect anything from them was with Breaking them with shears or anything else I was already at a dead end, but there had If I wanted to win against the AI and prove room. Losing two in a row would be devastating, complete all 4 of the next rooms perfectly. So, I began to do research. I scoured all over the internet to try to The history of snow golems, of snow layers, Maybe there was some obscure version of Minecraft or some mechanic about snow golems that made And after some quick googling, I found the Gambling. Snow golems have a chance to drop And they cost 8 snowballs to make. So each time I make a snow golem I could shear and if I was lucky enough, get at least 9 to make more snowmen, and eventually craft But I didn't want to bank on dumb luck, work. So I did the math. Using very basic probability I found the expected infinitely many times what is the average If it was more than 8, it would mean I would I could safely gamble and make my way out. Stay in school kids, it makes you better at The math however, didn't lie. 7.5 snowballs. I would be losing an average of 0.5 snowballs Which should make sense, since between 0 and are above 8 meaning below is more likely but This gamble would be a losing battle. There had to be another way I could solve And after some more digging, I found that Minecraft Alpha 1.0.5, a single version of without a shovel.The version lasted a single was immediately removed in the next version. But a day is all I needed, the version existed. I could harvest infinite snow from one golem. So I booted up Minecraft alpha to try it out. And there I was devastated. Back in such an old version of Minecraft I generates for me. I couldn't hope to transfer my escape room. This version was impossible to play on, and If I gave up here, it would mean a tied 3-3 I would be out of strikes, and any future But humanity has to push forward. So I did even more digging. And I discovered something. The answer was never in the snow, it was in In 1.11 snowmen were given a tag that allows you relog. Do you know what that implies? It implies that before that, between 1.9 and Meaning that relogging would regenerate the If I kept relogging and shearing, I would Problem was, the ability to harvest pumpkins Meaning that if I wanted to solve this puzzle I would have to shear the snowgolem in 1.16, to 1.10 or 1.11, relog so the pumpkin regenerates. Change the world version back again to 1.16, Farming infinite pumpkins I could use to stack There was light at the end of the tunnel, So, ready to carry out my plan, I tried loading Except one problem. It reset the world gen. Minecraft worlds aren't meant to be downgraded, terrain to regenerate. So transferring the world files wasn't going No matter where I looked, I couldn't seem It was over. I didn't want to keep reloading the world That didn't feel like a win. The score was now 3-3. The worst it had ever been. If I lost one more time out of the next four would have lost. The next performances had to be perfect. At all costs. 28 blocks to pillar up. And only 12 blocks to my name. I was absolutely devastated. Of all the escape rooms that chatGPT could This set of items looked completely impossible. Now you might be saying that I can just let And yes, that's true except I play all my So if there's ever a crop puzzle you can't And I assume that chatGPT wants it to be done So if I want to win this battle against AI route. My first instinct was damage boosting. If I could use the cactus damage to jump an use of each cacti. This came with two major issues. The first, is that this mechanic is insanely Still I had no problem with booting the world more easily, but then I faced issue two. It didn't matter if I could boost, it would up. Because sand can't float at a higher altitude, have to be placed on other sand. Meaning that it was pointless to try and conserve I could craft my sand into 2 floating sandstone than before. This was genuinely horrible. I had no way to beat the escape room, and The AI was going to sweep me three times, Humanity was on its last legs. But I had one more ace up my sleeve. Snapshot 22w13. Known better, as the one block at a time April The update completely revamped the way blocks And while sand and cacti function normally down. This means that potentially, with the right I could build a staircase for my sand out So I set up my boost platform, to try and But after many minutes, I couldn't even So I tried something different. Because you could now grab blocks just by higher I was, I could grab any block below up. Maybe with that I could climb higher. But even this discovery didn't help progress Arrows and bows couldn't float on their where they had to be placed on the ground. And more experimentation later, I realized There weren't nearly enough blocks to reach It was over. I'd lost to seeds, I'd lost to quartz, cacti too. AI won. In a last ditch effort I thought that maybe cacti on non-sand blocks if I threw it instead Nothing, it just landed on the block in a But when I tried to see if I could step on I was hit away in a random direction. This limbo cactus had some weird property So I ran into it again, and again, and again, I was gaining elevation. I didn't know how it happened, and I had All I knew is that I had accidentally discovered A glitch that was now my only hope. And so for 20 minutes, for the sake of humanity, over again. Different setups, different positions, different I kept running into the cactus. Trying to push the limits. It didn't matter how much damage I took, it didn't matter how many times I had to to work, I was going to win, because I have Never giving up no matter how stupid the odds. When representing humanity, there was no way Death wouldn't stop me, nothing would stop And when I saw that stupidly high gravity-defying I had won. The score was 4-3. Humanity. But I wasn't out of the woods yet, I still if I wanted to win. And I planned to. In the next room I had to climb 25 blocks, this one was hardly a challenge. I could fire boost with flint and steel and in single player and frankly no fun, I had TNT boosting, and this was probably the first Using the TNT to blow myself up, one at a 2 more to go. Room 9 was sort of similar and also nothing I imagine that GPT must have thought lava as I didn't get any water, but regretfully Regardless, this couldn't stop me from using Lava and a few dirt. Whenever you disconnect from a world you gain zero damage from anything. So by continuously relogging out of my world until I was at the exit. The score was now 6-3. The battle between human, and robot, would room. If I lost, it would all be for nothing. 30 blocks with only 20 clay and 3 ladders. This looked absolutely dreadful. My first idea was to abuse the ladders. Because you can get onto a ladder at any point scale two blocks. But even with that, and all my clay, I would Just barely out of reach. So, discouraged, I dug down. The dread was already setting in. I didn't want to give up, but this truly My only crafting recipe was to turn my clay there was very little I could make with quite The chickens were definitely not going to Even GPT generated this escape room ADMITTING I was completely devastated. It looked like everything was over. I booted up chrome one last time to do some To check the past versions of everything I help me. Clay obviously wouldn't have anything interesting, After digging around, the chickens offered the exact same since their addition to the I held hope for a second that maybe eating tick boost up each clay. But it only gave me hunger. I was going to give up. AI had truly beaten humanity. And then, in genuinely my final moments before humor myself, and search up the history of The most boring block in the game. And I saw it. A mechanic that existed in the game for only A mechanic so ridiculous, you wouldn't believe What if I told you, that if you built a creeper the ender dragon out of nothing. For the first time, I had hope. All I had to do was to transfer my world back No matter how many deaths, how many times over and over again. I was going to be hit by this dragon, and Not just to win for this video, but for humans, Was it dumb luck that ChatGPT had picked clay, was used to summon the dragon, dumb luck that get out? Or was it dumb luck that chatGPT originally said no. Was it dumb luck that I chose to regenerate easy, but because I wanted it to be hard? You tell me. But it is not luck, that when humans set their the stars, there is no hurdle, no obstacle,