In June 1944, an armada of warships D-Day. Thousands of American soldiers with formidable defenses. But this of Saipan. And the bloody battle there By late 1943, the Japanese are In September, they withdraw to a National of their conquered territories, recover their routes to Japan and island garrisons. that islands must be defended to the last. Douglas MacArthur would prefer to liberate the But US Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Ernest some of which could base long-range B-29 route towards the Japanese Home Islands. Admiral Chester Nimitz leading the Central move against Japanese-held islands in the they'll bypass some major Japanese garrisons, they &quot;[Suitable islands] could almost be naturally the [Japanese] had developed as bases, the Pacific, and needed an air base, there was from the [Japanese]. It's just that simple...&quot; The Mariana Islands stretch for roughly 750 at the core of the Japanese National Saipan and Tinian. Saipan and Tinian are sugar cane cultivation, although large scale Chamorro people into a minority. Japan invaded Fifth Fleet commander Admiral Saipan and Tinian first, establish US The V Amphibious Corps, consisting with the supporting 27th Infantry Division US planners select four beaches on the southwestern coast for the landings. will be separated by Afetna Point, while Instead, the assault waves prioritize LVTs - over reefs and onto the beaches. Unusually, V LVTs inland instead of dismounting on the beaches. the 2nd Marine Division is skeptical. They know although their rivalry with the LVT's Army V Amphibious Corp commander, General reach the Objective-1 line, 1.3 kilometers the south will be captured quickly around 95,000 US troops are available Japanese admiral Chuichi Nagumo is tasked with led the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor and the Imperial Navy. The local garrison under 32,000 men of the 43rd Division, 41st Independent but they're poorly prepared . There is high ground but the Japanese lack transport, troops and but US submarines sink some supply ships and relationship between the Japanese Navy and Army. zones and positions his artillery on He assumes the US will land in the southwest, counterattack any US landings. the island's defense, the navy develops including the most modern carriers, will sail to With the aid of land-based aircraft on the blow to Allied operations in the Pacific. and orders Task Force 58, his fast much to the annoyance of its commander Admiral And so, only a week after US troops in the Pacific prepare their the Saipan naval armada is even stronger On D-Day-3, US warships and aircraft bombard Tinian, and Saipan. US forces also fire white in a failed attempt to burn them clear. the bombardment on Saipan : enemy plane [...] It was a great formation many thousands [...] Until war came to Saipan, I not have known death. But before my eyes, these This is death itself!' &quot; (Hornfischer 76,79) Charan Kanoa , destroys coastal guns, and disrupts the battleships' fire proves disappointing, the sea. While the ships are firing, landing beaches and mark channels Before the main invasion on June 15, the marines Japanese, but the defenders are not fooled. Marines with support from the Army's Amphibious 700 landing craft and LVTs, including amphibious control variants will land 8,000 Marines in fire support until LVTs are 100 meters from Japanese fire increases as LVTs cross the Marine Division north, meaning units land at the As LVTs crowd the beaches, pre-sighted many well camouflaged and untouched by the Still, with in 20 minutes, the first wave of as well as the need to close gaps, limit their LVTs land, only half make it 300 meters inland. immobilize some offshore, and others bog they destroy 11 counterattacking Japanese Meanwhile, Marine Depot Companies, including onshore to handle logistics , but quickly find and bypassed defenders in hidden positions. inland marshes, others struggle to link the 8th Marines fight across Green 2 beach to G Company is armed with shotguns, both firing into friendlies coming from Blue Beach. shotguns during island assaults. Keeper of Firearms and Artillery at the [Jonathan Ferguson]: Hello everyone Jonathan here the Winchester Model 1912 - or by this point Second World War - the Winchester Model 12; just kind of doubly iconic for being, well it's a pump pump action fashion so single shot. You have an eight round tube magazine underneath. This commercial version of which an awful lot were the markings! We have US service markings and on there which denotes the the gun itself as a a flat gray finish that looks very World War II of the show with this thing is the bayonet. So, model 1917 Enfield rifle of the prior conflict. shield as well; it's all one unit that can be for the Winchester 1897. Really more of a shotgun thought to be a combat shotgun, didn't see a huge the famous German protests. But the Second World did see routine military action. So this has the and this really makes it truly, whether you are or whether you are charging the beaches or the itself is pretty pretty terrifying and gives you the eight shots of buck shot ammunition coming out range. Now we're used to from popular culture; Whether that's people getting blown 2 meter away walls or whether it's to do with the spread of the effect is essentially, it's like the shot do damage beyond that. These are actually better they would have been that way and would allow the needed to. That said the effective range roughly 20 meters I would say in terms of having enough a substitute for a rifle. There were I believe on like one in every two marines was also carrying ideal but it gave you the ability to fight very out with with the rifle. But broadly speaking Now the other issue here is ammunition. So back had encountered issues with the paper. This thick for this which was standard at the time in in out on a grouse moor or shooting turkeys out in hot and humid climate as at Guadacanal, so that not be able to load them into the magazine tube there overnight and you cycle the gun you may have time that the rounds be changed to a sheet brass not enacted or at least it wasn't enacted quickly using the the paper cartridges that could swell a limited weapon in some ways but if you are in a through breast works the open trenches that were if you get outside, the other side of those back. Even if as a marine that might still be the semi-automatic M1 Garand. So and then the the combat shotguns in general have carried on to Be that blowing hinges off doors to gain entry to used in the Afghanistan conflict. These But even with new tactics, the and link up the divisions by nightfall. only half the objective area, with around Although units reach the base of Mt Fina Susa, Japanese counterattacks overnight. but they're disorganized and desperate - in one and children as human shields. American tanks, On D+1, the 27th Infantry Division lands with more make modest advances, and link up the a major Japanese armored counterattack Poorly organized and forced by terrain to advance but US tanks, half-track mounted AT guns riding the tanks suffer heavily, and US tanks. Tank crewman Shiro Shimoda recalls: killed or simply abandoned us... The leading US lines] and a confused fight developed... Star and bazooka fires were destroying them. American fire on them, but our shells bounced off them like The battle is the largest tank-on-tank By D+3, the 4th Marine Division cuts the island Aslito Airfield, creating a Japanese pocket on lost half its battalions and two-thirds of "Have received your honorable Imperial words. 10,000 deaths; we hope to acquire While the fighting rages on Saipan, US Fleet. Spruance worries they might try and sneak through fast destroyers in a night the Japanese plan a decisive air On June 18, Japanese land-based bombers attack at a range of around 570 kilometers, Mobile carrier planes. It's too far for on Guam after their attack and allow Ozama's Ozawa sends the roughly 450 while the US scrambles all available aircraft often meet double the number fire over Task Force 58. The result is the More powerful, modern US planes like the F6F aircraft mount attacks on the fleet, and end of the raid, the Japanese lose US submarines also attack the Javpanese fleet, accepts his failure and withdraws on but Spruance's previous defensive orders When Mitscher launches his planes at a range have enough fuel to return. But he hopes his battle to shorten their return flight. 216 US little fighter cover . Grumman TBF Avengers from &quot;The carrier below looked big, tremendous, almost often dreamed of something like this. Then I was was straight up and down now in my dive. I was and for the first time I could see where they were seemed to be a mass of flashing red dots. [...] I as it had stopped the carrier right up and down Navy aircraft also damage three other ships, ditch into the sea or crash on flight recover 143 of the 177 aircrew that ditch . US victory. The Japanese lose three carriers, to zero US naval losses. And Japan's remaining rendering them useless. Including land-based and 445 pilots, losses they can hardly most to non-combat causes. Overall, Japan loses So the US is victorious at sea, but Mitscher is frustrated Spruance held argue that given the Japanese skill at stealthy Back on Saipan on D-Day+7, US forces start Tipo Pale, Mount Tapochau, and Hill 600. But the crawl. Where they can't use vehicles, the soldiers The 2nd Marine Division and 27th Infantry Division Valley", "Hell's Pocket" and "Purple Heart Ridge", the east. Marine commander Lieutenant General Infantry Division of lacking aggressiveness and However, it makes little difference. Some argue the toughest Japanese strongpoints although others unsuitable for this kind of battlefield. US destroyers prevent Japanese reinforcements coherently . Roughly 2-3,000 troops remain in around 950. With all artillery destroyed "Please apologize deeply to the Emperor that we Meanwhile, US troops are able to more their attacks. Supporting the marines are trained radiomen who use a code derived from communicate tactical information . Whereas it encrypt and decrypt three lines of English On D+11, the 6th Marines bypass enemy positions That night, the isolated Japanese troops in airfield, where the Americans eliminate them. battlefield. At night, they send aggressive recon night infiltrations. They clear the Japanese bazookas, and M3A1 Satan flamethrower tanks: yards, deep within caves, and lapped over the top contact, concealed troops were often asphyxiated. shook their heads in disbelief over how precious age.&quot; (Hornfischer 249) [Satan Tank Driver] navy and air forces also improves as On D+12, by exploiting the success of the and 27th Infantry Division are finally able to Death Valley and Purple Heart Ridge. By D+15, the As the battle of Saipan reaches its final days, Japanese soldiers and civilians Between D+16-19, US forces advance north, breaching the final defenses. On D+20, the 27th around the coast. The Japanese navy promises guerilla warfare. But with the US advancing on "Whether we attack or whether we stay where there is life. We must utilize this opportunity to those who remain to deliver still another blow to as a bulwark in the Pacific." (Hoffmann 222) a banzai attack against the 27th Infantry many of them unarmed, and the last three tanks. Garapan and push for Nafutan Point, where Considering this unrealistic objective, others suicide charge - with no tactical goal. overruns two US army battalions who hadn't from the Marines. They fall back and attempt into the valley. But these perimeters fail, overrunning Marine artillery, and attempting US troops create a perimeter and call in formations in a single hour. However, some of whom swim offshore to be July 7th, the charge is now exhausted and charge is now exhausted, disorganized and a US tank platoon pushes through to the banzai's Despite his orders, Saito did not join the charge Afterwards, US troops count 4,311 Japanese many were directly involved. US casualties are 451 such as Captain Sakae Oba also considered infiltrating back into the central highlands. resistance on Saipan, but tragedy continues. remaining troops commit suicide with explosives loudspeakers and interpreters to convince them civilians are likely coerced into killing some of whom forbid surrender. Japanese propaganda and US actions such as indiscriminate firing, vehicles may add to this impression. Ultimately, surrender dangerous and hard for troops to targets . Marine Lieutenant Lewis Meyers recalls: beyond the beaches. But we did not count especially the little children... Marines, their wallets, find it hard to fit these Japs is what were there for, but you hate to which the Japs have been firing." (Astroth 80/81) although mopping up takes months. Captain Oba after more than a year of harassing and killing the US army and marines lose 3,142 killed, these casualties occur in the first two days. Of about 6,000 of which remain in collapsed caves them Koreans fighting with Japanese forces. with an additional 14,700 interned in US camps. Guam. Much like on Saipan, the Japanese fight to the last . The marines apply their get off the beach quicker and aircraft On Tinian, the marines feint a landing then land further north and successfully terrain and fire support from Saipan and the despite the start of the typhoon season. pincer movement around the port and airfield. including jungle like conditions, On both islands, Japanese soldiers hide into mass suicides, although in one case American the US secures both islands at a cost of 9,500 US, Some Japanese soldiers retreat to fight a guerilla The Saipan landing was just a week after in the Pacific Theatre. The Americans recovered Guam and now had a clear path towards to conduct such an ambitious operation while is testament to the sheer scale of its Historian James D. Hornfischer also claimed the &quot;There was no explaining away what thousands of eyes in the Marianas. The ritual suicides of brainwashing and murder of the innocent unarmed, point that shaped the war's final year. of total war occurred in the Marianas, and it using all means available, without restraint." As the fighting moved closer to Japan, commanders compensated for a lack of material spiritual and racial superiority. As resistance, war extended and the lines between civilians and civilian Shinozuka Yoshitaro recalled: soldiers. You are no longer civilians. suffer the same.'" (Astroth 124) the Pacific is far from over. US planners think an despite the latest defeats, is unwilling believes a major victory against the US is needed also looking for their next major target, Videos like this one wouldn't be possible without Patreon. If you want to support us here at Real company, go to patreon.com/realtimehistory - videos and to our Discord server and your support We want to thank the Royal Armouries you have even a passing interest in check out their YouTube channel and see what collection. As usual you can find the sources you are watching this video on Patreon or we couldn't do it without you. I am Jesse Time History, the only history channel that would