November 1918. In western Europe, the four-year slaughter But across the former Russian Empire, a new rages from central Europe to the Pacific... and Lenin, the Bolsheviks and their survival against their many enemies The Whites' great hope: their newly-appointed 'Supreme Ruler He is a war hero, a man of duty and discipline, who believes above all, in Millions look to him to crush the Bolsheviks, avenge the murdered Tsar, and save This is the extraordinary tale of the life and death of Admiral Kolchak - The Arctic Ocean. 1900. Russian scientific vessel 'Zarya' sails east, on a voyage of discovery to the The expedition leader is Baron Eduard von Toll, He intends to explore the Arctic Land' - a near-mythical landmass, rumoured Among his crew: 26-year-old naval Kolchak had been a brilliant naval cadet. one of Russia's newest battleships, had bored him. Kolchak had a passion for scientific discovery When Baron Toll asked him to join his The dawn of the 20th century is an age of intense Russia, under the autocratic reign of Tsar and learn more about its vast eastern territories. Toll's expedition is part of this as any tale in the annals of polar exploration. Toll was a deeply ambitious leader and expert ship, Zarya, was in poor condition, and Nevertheless, the expedition spent ice floes and islands of Russia's Arctic north. On one occasion Toll was nearly drowned by a In May 1902, frustrated by his Toll took an extremely dangerous decision. With Zarya trapped in sea ice, he set off with 3 Zarya broke free of the ice a month But facing impenetrable ice, and running Toll and his team were stranded. Lieutenant Kolchak had distinguished himself as a key member of the expedition, He was determined their leader Returning 3,500 miles overland to St. Petersburg, His plan seemed insane: to reach Bennet and small boats. But in the absence of Kolchak postponed his own wedding to return On 5th May 1903, Kolchak's 17-man miles of snow and dangerous, shifting of dog-sled and whaleboat, it took three Where... they found no sign of Baron some scientific observations, and a note: &quot;Departing south today,&quot; it read, "We have provisions for 14 to 20 The note was dated 26th No sign of Toll or his three Despite its failure, Kolchak's daring and the Imperial Geographical Society's It also won him a nickname... Returning to Yakutsk in January 1904, Russia's Far Eastern base at Port Here was an opportunity for action, that Kolchak craved. He immediately But first, he met his fiancee Sofia Fyodorovna Four days later, he left for the Far East. The world expected Russia - a great an Asiatic upstart, according But instead, the war proved a frustrating and With devastating defeats on land... and sea... There was little Lieutenant Kolchak bottled up with Russia's He nevertheless served with As commander of a small, ageing destroyer, December 1904, one of his mines scored a major But the repetitive nature of his duties bored In December 1904, the Japanese got Russian warships with their land-based artillery. Ship by ship, Russia's Pacific Days later, Port Arthur surrendered. Kolchak was among the 25,000 Russian prisoners, he was repatriated a few months later, The war had been a demoralising affair though he received several medals 1914. The assassination of Sarajevo sparks an international crisis. Austria-Hungary accuses Serbia of responsibility causes Nicholas II to mobilise Russia's In response, Austria's ally Soon, all the great European empires are at war. That summer, as the Russian army blundered 39-year-old Captain Kolchak took command of a The previous year, he'd been 'an outstanding officer in every respect... firm Kolchak was, in every way, Now in the Baltic, he and his success, despite the overwhelming Once more, mine warfare was In the early days of the conflict, Kolchak's flotilla alone laid These operations effectively shielded Kolchak went on to direct a laying mines on the approaches to enemy Kolchak's courageous leadership won him more medals, and a meeting with In 1916, Kolchak was promoted, becoming with a new role... Commander-in-Chief He arrived at his new headquarters He was accompanied by his wife Sofia, and their six-year-old son. The couple Across the Black Sea, Kolchak faced Russia's Kolchak quickly adopted an aggressive coast, and providing naval support for His great hope was to launch an operation to decisive blow against the Ottomans, and open Russia's first Naval Infantry division was created But the operation would never happen. It Nevertheless, Kolchak's success in the celebrated war hero, at a time when Because from every other quarter, the March 1917. On the streets of Russia's there were protests against food prices It was the start of a revolution. The news took a few days to reach the Black Admiral Kolchak, determined to prevent any "I order all officers of the Black Sea Fleet firmly and unwaveringly, to fulfil their The very next day, Nicholas For Kolchak, it was a bewildering blow. Duty, discipline, loyalty to sovereign And he foresaw chaos ahead. In contrast, most of his sailors celebrated Their life was one of grim conditions here was a chance to overturn that hated regime. In Sevastopol, sailors elected their own Soviet Initial demands included renaming every Discipline and respect for Kolchak maintained a high tempo of occupied - but privately talked of facing 'the For three months, he held the fleet together, with firm leadership, and careful But Bolshevik agitators were They wanted the 'capitalist' war officers like Kolchak removed from command. In June, the crew of his own flagship, the They demanded that all officers be To avoid bloodshed, Kolchak agreed. But rather than hand over his own the sea. 'Even the Japanese, our enemies, 'You will not have them now.' A few days later Kolchak resigned his His wife and son remained in Kolchak had already publicly denounced the which he believed were destroying the military. Now the story of his defiance in the face Kolchak's reputation among Russian wondered if he might be the military dictator Such whispers alarmed Russia's The new Minister of War, Alexander Kerensky, So he met with Kolchak, and informed as part of a military mission In truth, it was what Kolchak himself That summer, Kolchak sailed via Norway to He met with President Wilson But plans for meaningful military co-operation between Russia and the allies In San Francisco, Kolchak accepted to enter politics as a candidate for the Kadets But in Japan, en route home, he received revolution in Russia. The Bolsheviks had Kolchak was appalled by the He despised Lenin and the Bolsheviks - who'd soon The chief cause of his hostility was Lenin's Like many Tsarist officers, Kolchak regarded Russia's commitments Lenin's negotiations with the Germans Kolchak's course of action was clear: "As an admiral of the Russian fleet, I considered our allied commitment to the The only form in which I could continue my service German agents and traitors, was to join the war Kolchak offered his services to the send him to Mesopotamia... but soon With fighting still raging on World War desperate for Russia to rejoin This meant removing Lenin and the Bolsheviks from by executing Emperor Nicholas the Second Therefore, as civil war engulfed Russia, the known as 'the Whites', against The British now put forward Admiral lead White Russian forces in the Far East - In September 1918, Kolchak arrived in Vladivostok. Here he learned that anti-Bolshevik and established a new 'Provisional This was effectively a continuation of the Provisional Government that had Therefore it had little support from Kolchak Provisional Government for leading That month, the advance of forced the Provisional Government Kolchak travelled 2,800 miles by train to join it. On 5th November 1918, after much discussion, he agreed to become the Provisional Two days later, Kolchak formed a General Staff Across Russia, the military White Russian forces were General Boldyrev commanded 180,000 Provisional General Denikin's Volunteer Army in The Northern Russian Government, a small They were supported by Allied contingents, of varying sizes, mostly in The Allies' most important ammunition and supplies via Russia's sea ports. Then there was the Czechoslovak Legion, The Legion's story was an odd one. The had been fighting alongside the Russians When the Bolsheviks took over, and made peace to travel by rail to Vladivostok, to then But the Bolsheviks then changed their mind, and The Legion was now stranded in the Trans-Siberian Railway - the crucial To further complicate the picture, Russia's wars and independence struggles, in Russia's White forces - fragmented, both the gigantic resources of Lenin's Bolshevik industrial centres and transport hubs, with It was a daunting prospect. The challenging military situation did nothing They included, at one extreme, left-wing Socialist at the other extreme, right-wing conservatives, This latter group had no more time for they believed only a strong On 18th November, they made their move. 300 Cossack troops rode into Socialist Revolutionary delegates they could find. The Provisional Government was abolished by It then moved to elect a new who would wield complete dictatorial power. The man they chose.. was A proven leader with a brilliant in close contact with the western allies. Above all, he was a man who shared their vision, that only a return to law and Kolchak himself had not sought believing others were better suited. But duty had called, and he would answer. November 1918. In western Europe, the four-year slaughter But across the former Russian Empire, a new from central Europe to the shores of the Pacific... Lenin, the Bolsheviks and their new against their many enemies - The Whites' great hope: their Russia' - Admiral Alexander Vasilyevich Kolchak. He is a war hero, a man of duty and discipline, Millions look to him to crush the Bolsheviks, to avenge the murdered Tsar, and This is the extraordinary tale of the life and death of Admiral Kolchak - In November 1918, a coup d'etat brought Alexander Kolchak to The 44-year-old Admiral now wielded authority equal to that of a Tsar, with an Despite his sudden elevation, Kolchak did not palace. He continued to rent a town house in He was joined in Omsk by his devoted mistress, His wife and son, who he'd not seen in They would soon travel to Paris, where many As Supreme Ruler, Kolchak faced challenges And it was soon clear that he was neither His manner was stiff and and to the point. If he failed to get He clung rigidly to his own conception of honour He was, however, extremely and could be personally kind and generous. Kolchak's first priority was to have his the Russian people, the army, and Equally importantly, he needed recognition from the allies - The previous week, the 11th November armistice And though fighting continued the allies would now be able to send far However, the allies no longer needed they were more interested in 'regime with someone less hostile, and more reliable. Initially, therefore, the allies were alarmed by He immediately set out to reassure &quot;I will not go down the road of reaction, objective is to build a combat-ready army, to so that the people can freely choose Whether Kolchak really wanted democracy in In White-controlled areas of Russia, the response Conservatives welcomed the prospect of But the reaction was not long in coming. The left-wing groups that the coup had forced from power - the Socialist Revolutionaries They convened their own Constituent Nicholas the Second and his family had been This Assembly refused to recognise Kolchak's In response, the Supreme Ruler arrest all its members. Several were in which several hundred Socialist Kolchak had shown himself unafraid to such firm action helped to shore up his position. On the other hand, the Socialist the fight against the Reds until a few weeks They accused Kolchak of wanting they declared, made him an even Elsewhere, White forces General Yudenich, in the northwest. Marushevsky in the north. And General Denikin, commanding Areas directly under Kolchak's control were Local councils could not be relied on, due to their support for Socialist Revolutionary Instead, the Whites banned trade unions, and returned nationalised Wherever they encountered opposition, When an uprising broke out in Yenisei, Kolchak was to be destroyed - burned to the ground, Hostages were to be taken, with Bolshevik partisans, they were to be shot. In the process of crushing the Yenisei revolt, White forces executed an estimated 10,000 Russians The Bolsheviks were just as merciless Some historians differentiate between Red The Red Terror was directed from the top, an The White Terror was reactive, improvised It made little difference to ordinary Russians, who suffered untold miseries in this In economic terms, Kolchak had he controlled two-thirds of Imperial Russia's now stored at Omsk - 490 tons in all. By late 1918, there were several to assist the Whites. More important than troops were the arms, ammunition and supplies they were But the support came with strings. Kolchak was informed by telegram that the based in Vladivostok, to take overall Kolchak rejected the idea outright, declaring he'd rather have no foreign Eventually, a compromise was reached the Czechoslovak Legion, and some Most of these would be held back While some historians believe Janin's wounded pride would later have bitter The war against the Bolsheviks was always recapture of Moscow and Petrograd. From the Provisional Government, he inherited advanced plans for a The goal was to breakthrough to and gain access to Allied aid The offensive began on 27th November. The Whites' Yekaterinburg Army faced the 3rd 250-mile front, while suffering from serious The attack broke through. The Reds and on 24th December, the It was a major victory for Kolchak's 120 artillery guns, 1,000 machine Eager to avenge this humiliating defeat, in January. But after small gains, and huge The capture of Perm filled Kolchak and his large-scale offensive for the spring of 1919. Their ambitious plan was to attack break through the over-extended Red Army centre, The offensive began in March, and soon White forces were advancing By the end of April, they'd advanced around 200 and agricultural resources, and threatened French Prime Minister Clemenceau, and British were among those who sent For the Whites, Moscow itself And with military success, and Kolchak's government had never looked stronger. The days of the Bolsheviks, Lenin and the Bolsheviks were But extraordinary measures had been taken, People's Commissar for Military Affairs Leon Trostsky had overseen the doubling in Now 1.5 million strong, it was backed mobilised under a new policy of 'War Communism'. In April, Lenin declared Kolchak 'enemy on Kolchak!' became the Bolsheviks' new slogan. The Red Army's eastern front received Mikhail Tukhachevsky, and In April 1919, they launched a White Russian forces were soon in rapid retreat. On 9th June, Ufa fell - a At the height of this crisis, lifeline - an offer of military support, Finland - ruled by Russia for more independence following the Bolshevik revolution. Finland's regent, Carl Gustav Mannerheim, troops. In exchange, he wanted Kolchak Kolchak flatly declined. Even in this desperate hour, he would not accept any By August, the Red Army had But Kolchak had a plan: he for time to rest his troops, and regroup. As Supreme Commander-in-Chief, Kolchak to see conditions and speak with the men. He would bring extra rations of coffee, He spoke always of duty and 'the motherland'. But small gifts and rhetoric could not compensate They were desperately short of clothing and weapons - a crisis partly caused by While the return of Tsarist-era discipline, which included flogging and beating Desertions were rife, particularly who had little reason to love the Whites. In private, Kolchak was increasingly under looked visibly exhausted, and at 44, The rumours of morphine-addiction the Supreme Ruler had become erratic and agitated. That August, Kolchak threw himself to support General Denikin's thrust on Moscow. Great hopes rested on its outcome. The attack began on 1st September. Initial indications were excellent. Kolchak's forces smashed through the 3rd advancing more than 100 miles, and But the great encirclements Kolchak Red forces on the eastern front, failed At the Tobol River, the Reds were able to Kolchak's troops, exhausted by their advance, and October 1919. Along the Civil War's eastern front, as the Red Army launched The Whites fought stubbornly, but when the the decision was made to General Denikin's advance on Moscow Everywhere, the Reds were advancing. Omsk, Kolchak's capital, was under threat. Kolchak wanted it held to the last man. "If But the speed of the Reds' advance left The city was hurriedly evacuated on 10th November. Russia's gold reserves were loaded onto a Red dismissed French General Janin's invitation to "I do not believe you," Kolchak told him, "I would rather leave the gold with the His words revealed how far trust had broken Kolchak hoped to establish a new defensive line But by December, this line too was crumbling. A breakdown in relations with the These Czech troops controlled the artery for the movement of troops and supplies. The Legion's officers now decided the priority over the movement of Kolchak himself was travelling east on the reserves. His destination was Irkutsk, where Around him, the country was in chaos. the government's authority had collapsed, Large areas were controlled by Bolshevik On 25th December, at Nizhneudinsk, Kolchak's train was halted by Czech He was held for two weeks, with limited While he waited, Bolsheviks launched a revolt in Irkutsk, Now even Kolchak's escape route was closed. Kolchak was now completely isolated. Military disaster had swept away his forces. The allies had lost patience His authority had been destroyed. On 4th January 1920, at the insistence Kolchak issued his last decree as Supreme Ruler - With enemies on all sides, Kolchak with the 60 officers and 500 He announced that no man would be compelled to join this enterprise - he At dawn the next day, of his Kolchak saw the game was up, and placed himself under the protection On 10th January 1920, Kolchak's train finally "These allies will sell me," Kolchak Sure enough, on arrival in Kolchak was handed over to the city's The Czechs claimed they had way to ensure their own safety But some Russian historians later own theft of Russia's gold reserves, This is almost certainly a myth, though legends The interrogation of Admiral He answered questions willingly, and took full responsibility for But the Bolsheviks had now taken control of He, after all, had instructed his own &quot;The civil war must be merciless... But then, suddenly, the hope of rescue. Several thousand troops loyal to the Irkutsk, aiming to free Kolchak and They battled their way to but they were massively outnumbered and outgunned. It was a gallant but doomed rescue In the early hours of 7th February, on the Committee of Irkutsk, Admiral Kolchak, and Viktor Pepelyaev, were taken from their cells, An order was given, 'Platoon, against The two bodies were pushed through With the execution of Admiral Kolchak, national leadership was over. 1920 saw their defeat on all fronts. Western Allies evacuated their And though fighting continued in corners of the ultimate victory of Lenin and the It came at an appalling cost. The Russian Civil War was one history - with an estimated 750,000 5 million civilian deaths from famine, and The career of Admiral Kolchak - Russia's the world's great hope for defeating He had faced extraordinary challenges, and shown and his own imperial vision He was a skilled naval commander and rigid and inflexible - unable to compromise, Under the Soviet regime, Admiral Kolchak's a would-be tyrant in the mould of the Today, a cross stands at the presumed site of For some Russians, Kolchak remains a romantic, and stood by his sense of duty, to the bitter end. Thank you, as ever, to the Epic History TV Patreon Visit our Patreon page to find help choose future topics, and get