Everyone knows that and versatile tool. But the seven secrets will blow your mind. I'm Dylan Stewart, The today's lesson, I'm going that will unlock Apple but don't leave before you tip, which will transform Our first secret Let's jump right into here and get started. If you're anything extensively, which means tons and tons of notes. And when you need to that's really important, scrolling forever, or and searching for it, you're doing that all the There's a better way Here's how it works. We're going to start off my notes folders here. Now in this folder, I've I need regularly, but that I need every day. So rather than hunting jumping into this folder to scroll down and The two notes I'm talking and my Zoom links note. To pin a note, there's two You can press and hold And then select Pin Or, even easier, you from the left side to Either way you do you pin a note is it to the top of that folder Pinned, making it easy But that's not the real The real power comes your all notes folder notes are located. And those pinned notes meaning that you don't or dig around or search that you use the most. I recommend only because as you pin becomes harder to find You can easily unpin the left to right in the note just drops back of the pinned section. This makes it super important ones. Those important links to hunt for them. Secret number two is your folders efficiently. The default view for a list like this. In fact, it's a down in chunks by But it doesn't have You may have a folder full to organize differently. like by title. It's easy to do by in the upper right corner where it says sort by. You'll notice the default click that I can change it all of my notes are making it easier to find looking in the alphabet But there's another do things too. I'm going to go ahead again and And I'm going by title back to date the way I like it most. One of the interesting is that it puts things Like here's my today 30 days clump, and my So it's very, very in these chunks. But sometimes that I don't really know I just need to track that clicking on the three corner here will allow you What that means is in a chronological list which in a lot of cases you're looking for and notes on a page because them by those chunks. But there's another way that is super powerful. For this, I'm going to and I'm going to go into that I have right here. In this folder are all for my wife for our As you can see on the has a beautiful picture and makes it easy to find If I click on the right corner here, I folder as a gallery, you've got attachments Let's see how it looks. Right from here, it's which poem I want to the titles right there. I named each of the day of the month. All I have to do is images, and there the ready for me to read it. or share it or print it And because of that easy to see and I'm of the other clutter. It's easy to turn it the three dots in the selecting either view like that, or view as It's a powerful secret for you to visually And it also looks great Let's go ahead and hop here, and let's turn that Right here now I can see clearly so I know which make my next gourmet meal. Secret number protecting your notes. Apple's extremely security have pin codes and face and our computers have safe to use notes anyways. But sometimes you've a little more sensitive Maybe it's got a bunch of passwords in it, or maybe, list of the gifts for my But the problem is, my iPad, which we keep computer, which is in the PIN code to my phone, her to log in and, oops! stumble across the I'm getting her It's easy to change three dots in the upper and choosing lock. When you do that it immediately lock the note. You'll notice the note can see the padlock open If I click that padlock, to close it and there's it without my face. The first time you set it's going to ask you the device password, which to unlock your phone, to lock this note. Remember, if someone they can get into this defeats the purpose. I'm going to create for it right here. And just like that, this note without that that my secret is safe. Secret number four to other notes. And this one is a that's new in iOS 17. Here's where it's useful. Let's say that we're And in the note that this dinner party, things I want to cook. The appetizer, the main Even the drink But each of these that recipe in it. I don't want to have to recipe, copy it, paste It's going to make things So instead, what you link one note inside What I've done here is guacamole note or the key lime pie or the ginger me right to that note with And all of a sudden I've recipe without having and jump back and forth. It's really simple to do. Let me show you how. In the case of this link to the entire guest invite to this party. So the first thing I'm in the title of what I don't get confused. And then you come you go to the greater you click it twice. That immediately links library, allowing you you're looking for. Simply continue typing, that specific note. There it is, Now that's right there. and whenever I want list or call them, all the note and it jumps me page with all of their It's a great tip and valuable in a number Secret number five If you've got a ton of you're going to have complicated and annoying, remember the title. But Apple's built in Searching directly All you have to do is come here, and you'll notice that will categorize For example, I can find all of my locked notes, checklists or tags or documents or attachments, helpful in situations the title of the note. Bye! For example, coming in notes immediately shows me has all of my credit card So I don't have to All I need to do is come and pick any one of these of the notes that fit having to hunt around. Way simple. Secret number six is And Quick Notes is an on something when you're But before we get started, you have Quick Notes The way to do that Settings section here Control Center here. In this section, you find Quick Note. If it's got a plus ahead and click that. That will put it up in Once it's there, you can the right, by pressing organize it so you your control center. I'm going to put Now, if I'm in an app something that I want to remember a little not ready to buy it and it into my reminders you know, Get a little All I have to do is pull hand corner here and click icon that we see here. That immediately brings up up at the top it has this means all I have to do the link of the website can then add any other when I look this up later. This looks like a fun know how well it's it's the right price. Period. Let's make sure Exclamation point. And then I can click right hand corner here. QuickNotes works So if I happen to be appointment and I think remember to bring the take a couple of notes at that appointment. I can pull down from the click my quick note icon link, which will link Meaning when I go back if I click on it, it Pamela wanted to talk Dennis wanted to talk Click save. And that QuickNote to find easily. QuickNotes are located up at the very top Coming into here, I can note I created about click this link to jump Or, I can click on this the calendar appointment It's an easy way to add your notes QuickNotes the app that you're in. Super, super helpful. Our seventh tip is That's right, you can Notes app right from your super easy, super simple, Here's how it works. First thing we're going open up the Notes app from here I'm going to clicking the new icon in And from here, I'm going on the formatting bar. Under that camera icon like scanning text, taking choosing a photo or video. But there's also When you click the Scan to hold the camera as flat that you want to scan. It will attempt and automatically There's a couple of change in order to make color, or to turn off But if you just use it it works like this. Let's go ahead and Let it find the document. And And just like When you're done, you button in the lower and that scan will go You can then come in scans as you want. Simply by doing the on the camera, going holding it directly over. Now this time, up at off the automatic, which it, it's not going to scan it, which can be little bit of trouble with Then, in the middle where you click that, you can or black and white, Over to the left of flash if you want to. Then when you're over the image, tap click keep scan, and it that same note next to super easy for you to keep you find, or cool quotes Now in just a moment, MacWhisperer power tip. But before I do, learn something new? If so, give this video it easier for other And if you've got a or a question, drop section down below. And if you haven't channel yet, why not? Go take care of that. I'll wait.. Hit that subscription bell so you're always drop new content. And with that being into that power tip. One of the questions I get I use notes and when These two apps are have a decent amount of meaning that maybe I maybe I should use that. The way I teach my clients want to refer back to, a poem that you wrote, cool YouTube video, then Reminders are for cross off, like a to list, or a packing list. But what about when you want to keep track to be reminded about? You see, the problem don't go to the note, come to you and say, You wanted to show You wanted to Or maybe you need to birthday gift for Julie Or maybe I need to all the people for It's easy to do. Come into the note be reminded about. In this case, it's And click the share right corner like this. Now make sure collaborate turned on. You want to change And then, right below the Reminders button, reminder and allow you you need, like when you In this case, our dinner I better start making And I can even set don't forget to do it. And then, simply click and time, this note will and remind me to start But there's even a a note to Reminders. And for that, we're Let's hop into Julie's I would hate to forget before her birthday. And now you summon Siri, side button on the right I'm going to Remind me about And just like that, into the reminders list get a nice reminder those perfect gifts. That's the way we at The MacWhisperer. Keep it simple. That's what I've got for Secrets of Apple Notes. My name's Dylan Stewart. They call me The passion and profession done with your Apple ever thought possible. And I'll see