Translator: Ying Wu For the last quarter-century, as a physician and a neurosurgeon, my goal has been to prevent death. But, I will tell you that some of the most profound experiences as a human being that I have had is being with people who have truly lived, but are dying. For the last decade, as a neuroscientist, my goal has been to understand what it is that stops people from living. I'm not talking about showing up. I'm not talking about mindlessly You know, somebody sent me and it said: &quot;Life is a sexually transmitted disease (Laughter) The life I'm talking about, though, The life I'm talking about, though, is a life of meaning, purpose, connection, and ultimately, contentment and happiness. What's interesting, though, is that in the United States - one of, if not, the most where we consume 25% where theoretically we have everything, why is it that we have an epidemic of stress, anxiety, isolation, loneliness, and depression? What's amazing is people come here somehow thinking that it will be better, and oftentimes it is not at all; It's interesting; 25% percent of people when asked, will say to you that when they are suffering, when they are in pain, they do not feel that they have It's horribly sad, but why is that? I had a cartoon. Do any of you know Snoopy? I had a cartoon that showed It's interesting, I am a familiar but oftentimes (Laughing) But in this case, Snoopy and he's thinking, &quot;Where am I going? What am I doing? And today I would like to share with you why I believe, over the last what it is that causes pain And also - in the context of what is next. And what is next is neuro-hacking your brain Or, hacking your brain for happiness. How do we do that? First of all, let me explain how we I'm not sure if you realize, our DNA has not changed So we are the same as we were then in this modern world which has evolved far faster As a result, we have evolutionary baggage, which stands in the way, The sad thing also is that that is not oriented towards wellness; it is oriented towards illness. (Applause) So what happens to that group of people who feel stressed, anxious, What is it that they're given? Drugs. Do any of you know Hunter S. Thompson? Obviously, a lot of you take drugs here. Some guys, yeah, yeah! (Laughing) Hunter S. Thompson said, &quot;I don't advocate the use of drugs (Laughter) But unfortunately, who are prescribed it's 20% of the adult population, If you include the excessive and some of you may be it actually increases to over 50%. And what have we gotten from that? We have not fundamentally And why? Here is where it gets interesting. As a species, to have something to have complex language, to have abstract thinking, has come at a cost. The cost is that unlike other species, our offspring require us to care for them for a decade and a half, or two decades. In my case apparently three decades. But, the attribute that makes us want to expend those resources and energy to raise our young is because we are hardwired to care. We are hardwired to recognize the suffering of another - especially our offspring - and alleviate that suffering. This is where you hear which is one of the neurotransmitters - nurturing and caring - dopamine and other neurotransmitters. The problem is, although this is our default mode, we have evolutionary baggage with us being our true selves The baggage is related to a primitive part which many of you know is called When an individual is anxious, when an individual is put that exceeds his ability to process, put them in an environment than how we evolved as a species what happens is this autonomic nervous system switches over from one of, - caring, nurturing, calmness - which is called our to decrease the tone and actually stimulate When the sympathetic nervous system You get afraid; your heart rate increases; your pulse increases - those are the same thing. your blood pressure increases; actually your immune system is depressed; and hormones associated and often released on a chronic basis. This is far different from what the system where if you saw a lion, all of those things would happen, you would run to the tree, and either you would crawl (Laughing) But what is the effect of this type of chronic engagement It is one where people they pull into themselves, it actually affects their work: they're not as creative; they're not as productive. So what is the solution? It certainly, today, has not been science We expend more on health care, have the most sophisticated yet we have this epidemic we have the highest cost of healthcare; the most dissatisfied and we fall in the lowest quadrant in terms of measures of efficacy But there is a solution. Interestingly, what I have spent a lot of time doing, is trying to understand the system. And instead of having it which has a profound effect and in fact a significant is to hijack it in the other direction. I will tell you though, it's not a pill. So that's a good thing. What we have learned is that we can actually potentiate our ability to be compassionate, to care for others, and when we do so, it has a profound effect In fact, the Dalai Lama, the Dalai Lama has said, &quot;Being compassionate when it's okay to be selfish.&quot; Studies have now shown that when you are compassionate, when you recognize the suffering it has a profound effect it boosts your immune system, and decreases those stress hormone levels down to baseline. And you have a sense of calmness, your frontal executive which are associated with decision-making, How do you switch the tide, where this system is not a detriment to you living your life and being connected with another and receiving the full It has to do with the following: I put it in the context If I told you that I had a pill that was organic, readily available ingredients, zero side effects, and had this profound effect where you worked at your best, and it allowed you to have purpose, How much would that pill be worth? A lot. But what if I told you that exists already But the only thing that is required you sit in silence for 15 minutes and focus your intention When you do that, you will realize, That is in fact all it takes. We and others have created techniques that give you the tools to hack your brain for happiness, and what And by doing so, what this will do is that when you are you will know that you have truly lived. Thank you.