Imagine zooming across the wild west on a and cowboys wrangling their herd. You get off back on board and cruising along the west and a beautiful sunset. You do all of this in airport or cramming into a compact car for this option doesn't currently exist in the United The U.S. may be a leader in technological but it's almost dead last when it comes to a nation that is so wealthy be so far behind in that the U.S. is currently dealing with, there are several other issues that can give Let's examine why the United States doesn't have a building one, and how the U.S. can fix its Generally, most engineers require that a train to be considered a high-speed train. This speed but it should be able to reach these speeds for trains are not a new technology. Japan's first which means that the United where Japan was over 50 years ago Right now, a web of high-speed trains every major city in Europe. That being and less densely populated than Europe, just hop on a high-speed rail every day that the United States should have tried to You could theoretically get across the country to taking a high-speed train. It may sound to fly to your destination than to take a train the city you're trying to get to. Many major connected by any form of railway at all, so But cheap flights come at a great cost. that ends up in our atmosphere. In fact, some times more greenhouse gas into the atmosphere trains that run on magnets or conventional release CO2 at all. And if the electricity these modes of transportation eliminate The fact that most plane flights between two an illusion. The United States hugely subsidizes plane ticket isn't really what it be. If airlines no one would be able to afford a plane ticket since the United States stopped seriously taking the train itself has become more expensive What it comes down to is that the railway system a lot of work to bring it up to the modern China, and Japan. So, how did we get here, in the way of the United States building If the United States ever hopes to reach its affordable high-speed rail transport is a numbers of people long distances quickly only cram so many people into an airplane, number of passengers and its weight by adding or transport as many passengers as high-speed Moreover, by using renewable energy to can be reduced to almost zero. Some trains but this is offset by the sheer number of 2050 is about 25 years away, meaning the high-speed rail network that connects the However, before the United States can to high-speed rails, there are some very The most obvious obstacles are costs high-speed trains and throw them onto lack thereof. The already existing tracks and to be upgraded to handle high-speed trains. On for high-speed train travel as the landscape train to reach over 125 miles per hour, which In order to fix the already existing problems with support high-speed trains, the government must wage. The sad part is that the United States any other developed country in the world. Over with over 50% of discretionary funds being the U.S. spent as much money on infrastructure money to build a high-speed train network methods already in service. However, that is not The reimagining of the United States rail cost billions and billions of dollars. All and sadly, many politicians in the federal project is worth it. This brings us to the network needs to overcome before it can If you have been following U.S. politics over the country with two main political parties that high-speed trains and railroads, in general, has The auto industry is a huge force to be reckoned politicians influenced by the power and money issue. What it really comes down to is that the up a high-speed rail plan and fund it. However, in the way of constructing a high-speed train In order to build a railway network that the federal government would need to step in. tries to come up with a plan for an interstate that believe it is overstepping its role. This which presidency tries to start a high-speed to the necessity to conduct long studies, which official is in office. At this point, the proposed and the new leadership either has no interest in This has led to a series of promises around one is arguing against impact studies being a high-speed rail system is built. But if one when they are elected to office, States will ever start connecting A perfect example of this happened in 2009 this time, they proposed building a high-speed Unfortunately, the map and plan presented were It never became clear how certain cities would It was also stated that some railways would others would only be able to be used at 90 miles But perhaps the biggest problem was that many of had zero experience in building railways in the from the federal government, which is a hard questions than it answered, which inevitably made on the high-speed rail front. But this was money, and effort to make a high-speed train administrations brought up plans to build up never gets done because there isn't enough support The real problem in the United States isn't and resources needed to build a high-speed train doing so. Most citizens have never had access to improve our current railway system or build constituents, elected officials feel no need Another major problem is that U.S. citizens it says it will do. Although there are many could be comparable to the Interstate the Eisenhower administration in the 1950s When you look at a roadmap of the United planning, and money went into the interstate used to implement a high-speed rail network if When the Interstate Highway System was trusted the federal government and supported its in recent years. What this means is that even solid plan to build a high-speed rail network the majority of the country might not trust them until the government regains the trust of funding and complete any long-term projects, This is all extremely frustrating for the train network built throughout the country to planet while giving the general public a cheaper masses push for high-speed rails to be built or the United States will continue falling On top of the politics surrounding high-speed the United States needs to overcome before to high-speed rails would need to happen in could be used to provide more people with access drive-everywhere lifestyle to a riding However, almost immediately, this plan runs been experimenting with the idea of connecting economical way to get between the passenger trains were set up to travel along These tracks already follow routes with travel between 90 and 110 miles per hour. This looking to use trains more often, especially if The problem is that the freight trains still use materials, they don't go very fast. The passenger which leads to long delays and makes most people. To make matters worse, so even though they are supposed to prioritize What this means is that the passenger trains per hour are only averaging 53 miles taking the train is even slower than driving, make the trip. If the passenger trains had this alternative would be both faster and importance is put on train infrastructure by Even if you put all of the political issues, problem that the U.S. must overcome if a network When the Interstate Highway System was from their homes as the government bought up land 169 million people living in the United States. million. This means that if new railways are going the federal government will need to buy land When the highway system was built, the which is absolutely messed up. What was even more targeted and forced to sell their homes or highways could be completed. This is a whole other the U.S. government did some terrible things If we fast forward 50 years to today, more surrounding major cities. It's these areas to pass through in order to get to their thousands of families will need to give up their to be built. This will likely never happen, and in America's immediate future. However, there is willing to invest more money and resources into When you look at the population density in areas you will notice a stark difference between them and Japan, have population densities that is actually one of the reasons why these parts of It's also important to note that for many, having lives, and entire communities grew around these these countries are invested in improving train to high-speed rails becoming the obvious next The United States never embraced train travel States, which has the most commuter rails and one high-speed rail from Boston to Washington U.S. that is one of the main factors inhibiting But there is one other key element that led There is no denying that the majority of their cars. From the time the Model T rolled off cars have always been a huge part of American visit friends, and even go on the great American how much the United States favors cars than the government could have come up but that wasn't in the cards due to the fact they could make by creating a car-dependent eventually resulted in the U.S. government pouring People living in the suburbs with their families train to get to work when they could just drive availability of cars led to more sprawl and and still is, a negative feedback loop. so they need a car. People have a car, If the United States developed in a way where or just didn't need cars, it's highly been built to allow them to get from place to network that could have eventually similar to what many countries in Europe have that is not how U.S. history played out, and the suburbs only grew, which is exactly why In hindsight, this might not have been now face a climate crisis as a result of the average carbon footprint of someone than in parts of the world where both high-speed except for China. But the government is also is a way for the U.S. to transition from being a If the United States re-budgeted the money spent improving public transportation, it would be an than funding massive highway projects, the U.S. bus routes, both of which could lead to newly urban planning will need to shift to make U.S. to public transportation and the things they need In many countries, there are high taxes put anyone who purchases a car must pay a 150% price. This lowers the demand for cars and travel methods such as high-speed trains. And tax cars. Many countries in Europe and practically no other country subsidizes If the United States decided to increase the taxes used to build an affordable high-speed rail system same time, people would stop purchasing cars frequently. However, as things are now, Americans U.S. citizens have come to love their cars the U.S. government's only option is to make car. This means the costs for riders must be low, All of these problems seem insurmountable, and is a shift in the mentality of most and the government will have no incentive to At some point, however, they may not have become more conscious of their environmental travel methods. Perhaps in the future, this The question then becomes: how should the network? As mentioned before, there are such as sharing them with slow freight trains. and lead to court cases that last years, building process. Unfortunately, there isn't could try and fix or update the tracks they to allow high-speed trains to pass freight Also, there needs to be an agreement between the which could lead to even more delays as Constructing a high-speed train network be done in phases. Perhaps the U.S. could to existing tracks to save on costs and Other tracks might need to be built out New York City to Chicago. This seems rail as current train passengers must stop in a trip that takes around 19 hours on a good flight is much more appealing, even if a direct route between the two cities using around six hours, which, if affordable, In terms of getting around the problem of to invest in tunneling technology that will towns or areas where the land on the surface option than trying to go over or plow through companies working towards better tunneling Technology is always advancing, and the in high-speed trains, the further behind of mass transportation and long-distance as the population grows and more people move to high-speed trains will not be coming to it seems like the country is doubling electric charging stations and Perhaps the future of mass transit in the that use the already-constructed Interstate place in a sustainable way. However, this which may cause some Americans to the comfort or speed of the high-speed Now watch "Why United States Won't Win World War 3." Or check out "Japanese Train