22 June 1941. Under the codename Operation its ally in the war against Poland. Among Germany is Belarus, officially called the which prior to the Nazi invasion had been Within just a week of the invasion, and immediately implement their genocidal the Jews, who are confined to ghettos, severe food shortages, and starvation. to exterminate the Slavs, the dominant Germans view as racially inferior. As a result of to mass murder, shootings, starvation, and forced to decimate the local population but also aligning with Hitler's vision of East. The highest-ranking Nazi official responsible for countless atrocities including Richard Paul Wilhelm Kube was born on 13 November Kube grew up in Berlin, where he gained attention 1911, he received a scholarship from the Moses advocated for religious tolerance and intellectual political science, and theology at the Friedrich of the German Nationalist Student Association, conservative, and anti-Semitic ideologies he worked as a journalist for several Kube joined the Nazi Party and becoming the chairman of the Nazi Party On 30 January 1933, Adolf Hitler was appointed Chancellor of In September 1933, Kube was appointed to Minister-President Hermann Goring. Several weeks he was promoted to SS-Gruppenfuhrer, While Kube and other high-ranking officials the regime's rise marked the for many German citizens, especially the Jews. citizenship and prohibited them from marrying or and social life became increasingly restricted, time Hitler was appointed Chancellor, there Germany. However, from 1933 to 1939, approximately places like the United States, Palestine, were removed from the economic life of Germany by and assets to &quot;Aryan&quot; or non-Jewish ownership. properties, often at a fraction of their actual Jews were systematically deported to concentration Amid this growing persecution, Kube's dedication he is also known to have said about Jews: are Jews to the white race.&quot; By 1934, full display when he made a chilling statement carrier of the plague must be eradicated." led by Chairman Walter Buch--the father-in-law of private secretary--began an investigation into of adultery and corruption, including nepotism, In December of the same year, Kube received a documented the party's disapproval of his actions. accusing Buch of being married to a &quot;half-Jew.&quot; for Buch but also for Bormann, as it raised wife. When investigation revealed that he was removed from all his positions and resigned The Second World War started on 1 September In 1940, Kube was rehabilitated as the head of the SS, and employed On Sunday, 22 June 1941, under the codename the Soviet Union. For Nazi Germany, this attack war against the Soviet Union was a war and Soviet communism; a racial war between Following the invasion of the Soviet campaign of unprecedented brutality. As including the SS and Einsatzgruppen, systematically targeted civilians, particularly &quot;undesirable&quot; by Nazi ideology. Entire villages of Soviet prisoners of war were subjected to In July 1941, Kube was appointed Generalkommissar today's Belarus, with his headquarters extermination of the large Jewish population the Slutsk Affair in October 1941, a massacre methods employed by the Nazis in the Soviet Union. and auxiliary forces rounded up thousands of of Slutsk. They were subjected to unimaginable homes. Victims were marched to mass execution large numbers and buried in hastily dug pits. The with local Nazi civil authorities, leading to officials, including Kube, due to the unregulated Kube wrote in protest to his supervisor &quot;The town was a picture of horror during on the part of both the German police officers Jewish people, but also among them Belarusians, together. Everywhere in the town shots were heard accumulated. The Belarusians were in greatest I am submitting this report in duplicate so Minister. Peace and order cannot be maintained in seriously wounded people alive who worked their filthy act that the incidents as such should Lithuanian partisans were Lithuanian the Nazis during the first months of the German Although Kube was involved in the Holocaust, planned extermination of German Jews within his he was willing to assist in solving the so-called part of the German cultural sphere, distinct from brutalized hordes." He particularly objected to had been decorated for their service individuals. In at least one case, he managed Karl Loewenstein, to Theresienstadt, Although Kube was a staunch antisemite, When the systematic mass killings of local the civil administration in late March 1942, during the liquidation" to avoid chaos and he appealed to the Reich Security Main Office and Minsk ghetto led by SS-Obersturmbannfuhrer Eduard calling them "unworthy of a German person and Strauch recommended Kube's dismissal to Kube of failing to distinguish between Kube reportedly called a policeman who shot a Jew when they were instructed to prepare 5,000 Jews Kube's behavior continued to be marked by misgivings, he took part in a horrific act on conducted by German and Belarusian police, a orphanage were seized and thrown into deep pits of including Kube, arrived at the scene. Spotless the terrified, screaming children and then walked buried alive in the sand. Wilhelm Kube himself was Maria, who was 24 years his junior, they had two Kube's actions grew increasingly brutal to support the Nazi's objectives. a directive that the strong presence of Jews "cleansing the land of Jews." Kube raised no were unable to work and in May 1943, he showed a During 1942 he ordered mass murders of Jews and outbreaks in the Jewish ghettos. Moreover, he had been confiscated and used his position to In June 1943 Kube wrote to the Reich Minister Rosenberg the following: " The fact that Jews discussion. Imagine only that these occurrences by them! Most likely such propaganda would have about it simply would not be ready to believe it." In the end Kube's crimes caught up with him. on 22 September 1943, he was assassinated in in his mattress. The bomb was placed a Belarusian woman who had been hired in Kube's to assassinate him. Due to Kube's critical Himmler reportedly described the assassination the SS killed more than 1,000 male citizens of to fight with the partisans. In October 1943, she the highest distinction for bravery in More than two million Belarusians were accounting for approximately 25 the highest proportion of any country involved in or 90% of the Jewish population of Belarus, countless of them at the hands of Nazi There were no tears shed for Wilhelm Kube. Thanks for watching the World History and click the Bell notification episodes we thank you and we'll