Some emblematic and outstanding buildings, stately homes or architectural details, have a common material in their construction: brick. In the Aragonese town of Cetina, the Marco family has put into operation one of the ovens that, until the 1960s, supplied bricks for the construction of buildings. The land to make the bricks has always been obtained from the land located around the town, as they have very pure and clean veins of stone. In the winter months the earth has been dug up and piled up near the work site. With a few simple strokes of the shovel to break the &quot;torrocos&quot;, the earth is prepared to make the clay. In order for it to be more rested and compact better, the clay is prepared overnight in a large pile. Water is a key element for the manufacture of bricks. A well inside the work area supplies the approximately 500 liters needed to fill each pile. One of the factors that affect the good quality of the clay is the dryness that the earth must have when it is poured into the pile. Its mixture with the water is done by pouring the earth in layers. Fill the pile, the bricklayer makes the test with a long stick called &quot;catapiles&quot;, to check if the amounts of water and earth have the necessary proportion. With this stick I know if the mud is worth it to rest or if we have to pour more water. We call this stick &quot;catapiles&quot;. This plastic is placed so that the upper part does not dry out. If not with the sun it would stay dry and raw. And it wouldn't be worth the mud. It will stay until tomorrow or when it is taken out again. After a day of resting the mud in the pile, the bricklayer uses crushed or rotten straw as a binding binder. Another factor that affects the good quality of the clay is the tread. The more times you step on it, the greater guarantee there is that the bricks do not crack during firing. When the bricklayer considers that the mud is sufficiently trodden, he removes it with the &quot;legona&quot; leaving the pile ready for another new mass. It is usually brought in winter, at the beginning of the season. It is stored and if you are lucky and it does not rain it dries out. If it is wet you have to step on it and work it more. If it is very dry with four footsteps that you give it, that's it. Covered with plastic during its rest, the clay will maintain the necessary humidity to be worked on the next day. The manufacture or cutting of the bricks is done on the threshing floor. Previously, the brick maker wets the area to be used with water and spreads ash extracted from the kiln so that the mud does not stick to the ground. "Cutting" the bricks consists of filling the mold with mud, spreading it inside and leveling its surface with the wooden skimmer. Every time he makes a brick run, the frame is washed with water so the mud doesn't cling to the wood. The work of cutting the bricks is done in the months of good temperature. The ice and the cold would crack the uncooked pieces as they freeze at night. The most manufactured size of bricks for traditional construction is 25 x 12 cm and those used for the restoration of churches is 37 x 17 cm. Its size and shape depend on the mold used. At 10 or 12 o'clock, the bricks that have been made in the morning are patted to remove the &quot;live&quot; or burr that remains when the mold is removed. This serves to remove the &quot;alive&quot; from them. To make it flatter. When removing the frame, the &quot;live&quot; tends to go up. Then when they dry a bit, they are given to be flat. To remove the burrs and mud leaks that remain from removing the mold, the brick maker skillfully uses small cut sickles called "charranderos". Until a few decades ago, bricks were cut and dried in the sun. This fact caused the sun to penetrate through the pores, cracking inside and splitting when cooked. Currently drying is done in the shade, solving this problem. When the bricks have lost enough moisture to allow them to be moved, the brick maker stores them until they are fired, leaving a small gap between them to allow air to pass through for complete drying. For the total drying influences the time. The bricks cut in midsummer, in 15 days are already dry and ready to fire. Those made in October need 2 months to dry. The kiln for firing the bricks is divided into two parts. In the lower one, called the vault, is where the fire is made. In the upper or furnace is where the bricks are placed. The lower area or vault is supported by four brick arches joined by chests. Between them there are some holes that allow the passage of fire to the upper part. Before filling the kiln, the brick makers remove the ash from the previous batch accumulated in the vault. The preparation of the mixture used to prevent the mud from sticking to the ground is done by combining proportional parts of ash and earth. Here the air enters and when the firewood is thrown, it helps it rise up. This is a pipe that goes up there. The floor of the vault has two ducts in the form of channels called &quot;fans&quot;, through which they receive the air so that the fire can pull. Where it is spoiling, it is given mud to repair it and that the fire rises up. After extracting the ash from the previous batch, the bricklayer repairs the wear caused by the fire on the arches of the vault with a mass of clay. Once dry, they put the bricks in the oven to fire them when it is completely full. Each layer that is placed is called a &quot;bed&quot;, and the first ten or twelve &quot;beds&quot; go in the same direction, to respect the draft of the holes for the fire. The first bed is the one that suffers the most, and for this reason it is always fixed with fired bricks. After the first 10 or 12 beds, the bricklayers make the change of direction or crossing in the placement of the bricks, in order to control the fire to reduce its strength. About 12,000 bricks fit in the Marco family's kiln, arranged in 25 beds. The last of these &quot;beds&quot; is made with rows of bricks to close the fire flue at the end of its path. &quot;Cascar&quot; consists of covering the brick beds with tile rubble to hold the fire when it reaches the top. In this way, the heat inside the oven is preserved for a longer time. In addition, the rubble protects the bricks from the possible risks of a sudden storm, especially before the fire becomes strong enough for firing. Calculating the 36 or 40 hours necessary in the oven to fire the pieces, the lighting is done at dusk. In this way, at the end of the second night of firing, the fire will have cooked all the bricks. Every time the brick makers add wood to the oven, it is called &quot;calda&quot; and this happens every 10 or 15 minutes. All the experience and knowledge of these artisans are concentrated in the delicate cooking process. Knowing the situation of the fire inside the oven at all times, controlling the increase in temperature by eye until it reaches 1000 degrees or directing the fire draft, are some of the keys that can only be acquired with practice and habit. . When the fire reaches the highest part of the kiln, the bricklayer must control the shot to direct it at will. To do this, with rubble, it controls the output of the fire at those points where it has already reached its highest point. This smoke was good for when you had a cough. All the children who had colds came here. This smoke does not harm. In the past they cooked with straw, but currently the fuel used in cooking is coastal pine and about 12,000 kilos are needed for each batch. When they do not receive a sufficient supply of firewood, they must resort to the scrubland: gorse, chaparros... After 24 hours of cooking, the situation of the fire in the upper part of the oven and the cherry red color that the pieces take on, are the signals that indicate to the craftsman the state of the process. This is where it is most cooked. And for the part that is white. This will be the first thing we will cover. Here we will have to let it be seen. The back is left more open. When a part of the kiln has been almost fired, the bricklayer covers the fire outlet with earth to lead it to other areas inside the kiln. Now I'm covering so that the fire goes to that side there. It's done. Although covered, it continues to cook. Keep cooking something. This is already cooked. Like all crafts, this one also has its legends, myths and superstitions, which have been passed down from generation to generation. If a woman approaches the oven with her period, the cooking comes out raw. If an animal was thrown into the boiler, the oven also came out raw. My grandparents told it and we have fulfilled it. Neither that they threw anything, nor that a woman came with her period. Shortly before dawn the work is fully cooked, it is time to finish the caldas and conserve the heat inside the oven by closing all its air inlets and outlets. This is done so that the material does not &quot;wind&quot; as we say. If this door were to open and air could enter, the material would be damaged. The kiln takes 8 to 10 days to cool down, during which time the bricks will reach the necessary degree of firing. When the kiln is completely cold, the brick makers begin to remove the pieces, stacking them to transport them to their destination. These bricks have all come out good, some may come out like the one from before that has a &quot;caliche&quot;, a &quot;caliche&quot; is a stone that is put into the mud and when it is cooked it jumps up just like lime, so a hole is made. But come on, one or two have been able to come out. It is recognized above all in the sound. If they are well cooked in the sound and then in the color it is also seen, but where else in the sound. Fortunately, this is one of the traditional trades that has been recovered thanks to the demand for this type of material for the restoration of old buildings. Very few are the existing technical differences in relation to those used in past centuries. Today the Marco de Cetina family continues to manufacture bricks in the same way that their ancestors did. I'm Eugenio Monesma, director and producer of the documentary you just saw. If you liked it, I encourage you to subscribe to the channel by activating the notifications from the bell and so you can enjoy the hundreds of documentaries that I already have on the channel and those that I will upload weekly.