Chicago's architectural legacy is no secret, it might be hard to imagine how the "Windy Hi everyone, ken here, welcome to &quot;ThisHouse&quot;! Today we are exploring the lost Gilded Age Hit that subscribe button to join me on this on &quot;ThisHouse&quot;. This video was brought to you in part by Babel, this video. When Chicago was founded in 1837, it quickly surrounded by prairies, with wood frame buildings At this time, the city's wealthy elites would not remain there for long. In 1871, a fire started southwest of the city, spread out of control, consuming over 17,000 homeless. In the aftermath of this devastating destruction, a series of new enclaves along Prairie Avenue center. Here they built were called "the most expensive The people who lived here were some of the only of Chicago, but of the entire United Traveling from north to south, you would first Style mansion clad in Indiana Limestone. George Pullman had risen to wealth as a prominent car and founding the company town of Pullman His house was the center of Chicago's social 400 people or more. The interior boasted everything he needed a bowling alley, and a billiards room. For his daughter's wedding, he had a palm glass dome soaring overhead. While his house became a social hub, he wasn't In 1876, Marshall Field's house was completed or the modern day equivalent of around 55 The 3 story brick house had been designed Second Empire Style. Marshall Fields was the founder of one of Marshall Field and Company before it was eventually The interior of his mansion was lavishly decorated millwork below towering ceilings. The dozens of fireplaces in his home had all and featured intricate relief work in their His furnishings were a true testament to his more as a show house for the fashion of the Nearby, on Michigan Avenue sat the house of US Presidents and members of the British Royal On the other side of these massive stone walls, as the Chicago World's Fair, was planned are seeing now being conceived on the wing Down the street stood the towering 40 room the chateauesque style. It once featured a gilted ballroom decorated elaborate tilework throughout. John made his fortune in the meat packing finances. He earned and lost his fortune several times, starving, in his marble halls. When Potter Palmer rose to wealth, he decided the Gold Coast neighborhood. He became successful after running a line with Marshall Field in the retail industry. He became incredibly wealthy and spared no The house was fully staffed to ensure that not even opening doors for themselves. Their art collection was arguably the most Degas, Renoir and Picasso hung in their grand The grandeur modeled by Palmer attracted other Next we will see the home of Edith Rockefeller She was the daughter of Oil Tycoon, John D what to do with. Edith was able to follow her dreams, including She was known to be a socialite who funded private library which was one of the largest Her house was filled to the brim with antiques and other fine collectables such as a persian the modern day equivalent of about 4 and a With so many expensive homes now lining Prairie in with more stately homes of Chicago's lining the streets. Then came the upper middle class, building create a truly idyllic neighborhood. Residents continued to build luxurious homes So what happened? Why doesn't Chicago still look like this We will find out after a quick word from our I took French in highschool and in college, I felt like I had a really strong grasp on and without routine practice, my fluency began words and grammatical structures. When I went back to France, I forgot how to moment in the restaurant. That's when I signed up for Babel. Babel is easy to use and has proven results learning apps in the world. Lessons are planned out by real language teachers Whether you want to expand your career opportunities or have a more immersive travel experience you the skills you need and if you aren't money back guarantee. The next time I visit France, I won't be confidently say L'addition, s'il vous Babel has a special offer for This House viewers, Click this link to start learning a new language Which language will you start learning today? Let me know in the comments section. Now back to our video: By the turn of the century, the neighborhood Cars were now being used in favor of horses homes with soot. These grand mansions had also become outdated, Many of them were not planned to have electricity Instead of retrofitting the mansions, many more modern homes further out in the suburbs, of by foot. This exodus left an economic gap in the neighborhood. The homes were far too expensive for the every afford the mansions were spending their money This lead to many of these great houses being One by one, they were all torn down as industry Where some of the country's most expensive their places. The ripple effects of this economic divide when crime started to creep in. Now with prohibition banning the sale of alcohol, house on South Prairie Avenue where he reigned mob. This only furthered the problem with crime By 1935, very few mansions remained as they industry with factories dominating the once By the 1940s, millionaire's row was only chance to sell while the once perfectly manicured factory workers. After seeing a few rough decades, the neighborhood The demand for more housing near downtown so factories were torn down and replaced with By this point, every single mansion that we with highrises, But not all was lost in the not see survived, including the house of piano Another surviving mansion is the John J. Glessner We won't go into detail about this one quite in an upcoming video. Make sure to hit that subscribe button so Like a phoenix reborn from the embers, Chicago again from the smoke stacks of factories, beautiful works of architecture were lost only in photos. Which house was your favorite? Make sure to let me know down below in the I would also like to say a special thank you can see on screen right now. If you would like to see your name on this program today. I'll see you next time on &quot;ThisHouse&quot;