Translator: Claire Ghyselen My grandfather was the organist and we shared this epic love Also, Queen, Bohemian Rhapsody was a big one. Just that opening melody, the way the sections but come together to form When I was four or five, when I remember I didn't necessarily because I hadn't killed a man. (Laughter) But it was electrifying, familiar like the other lyrics that go, &quot;He was strumming my pain with his fingers Singing my life with his words&quot;. Then later going on to say, &quot;I felt he'd found my letters How does a great song do that? That song came from a poem while she watched Don McLean How does a great song lay out as if the songwriter on your internal dialogue. Like they were strumming and hitting you like a memory. I've been obsessed with this The taking of something silent, formless, and finding a way to convert it into a shareable, via rhythms, harmonies, whatever will get you there. I call it &quot;translation&quot;. The reason why it's a big deal is then chances are on behalf of the listener also. It's a very powerful thing in a world or the context to express Music has this unparalleled ability to take all of one's pain, and invite us to relive it and none of the suffering. Like a wind turbine converts the wind's the songwriter has an ability the human experience, however transitory, and convert it into redeeming beauty I have some machines over here, This one here -- (Piano) if we can get a little bit This is D minor, a great mind once said I don't know why, but it makes You can do amazing things with D minor. (Piano) But the thing about D minor is that it's not sadness itself. It does not create the sadness. The thing is that we carry that D minor seems to be a harmonic match I've spent my entire life trying to accurately convert And for that conversion, we either need to find When I was a kid, I drove my very, I had this 80's keyboard the synth choirs, the fake marimba. And I had this double and I would record all the drums of my then the drums and the base the drums and the base, the vocals And it's tape, so each dub, you multiply so in the end, you are left A kind of R&amp;B-Caribbean-pop-bossa number arranged by a very odd eight-year-old. (Laughter) I loved how the parts interweaved; I loved how, within a chord, a single note can have the final word or at least which part of your emotional In songwriting, just like in language, in order to express a feeling, you absolutely have to capture the experience, the memory, and be able to understand it. But in language, we are often reaching for the nearest possible word and then adjusting But in songwriting, just like in art, just like in any accurate sometimes we have to push beyond the linguistic templates. Sometimes you have that exist between the words, or at least between the feelings And you have to kind of blindly that very non-illuminated space until you stumble across the light switch in the hope that none In art, in faithful self-expression, Singer-songwriters are often In very broad terms, music producers are like guiding where the song goes I've worked with and we've made some great music. But it's always been tricky because this idea of translation It's not a rule, and it's definitely not for everyone. But for some, if the feeling translates into the song then it stands to reason that when the artist hears that some of that emotion or at least somewhat - And if not, then it's possible or lost in the conversion. And it's challenging. Tom Waits said it was like trying Sometimes you end up with nothing And so at that point, I realized I would have to in songwriting and music production. My current live show is centered which make for a very interesting to have with my Italian &quot;nonna&quot;. (With Italian accent) &quot;I no understand (Laughter) Human musicians. I do love human musicians, and I've played with real-life but in a production process, I've only ever accessed You know, that state and that's the only stuff that I kind feel at this point of my life Solo and surrounded by machines, unjudged, safe and free. And so, these guys make up the vowels, the consonants, the slurs, the cadences in my current sonic language. So over here is the drums. (Drums) Just let me hook myself up further, because I do not look like (Laughter) Oh, hi ! This is Randa calling from TEDx. (Laughter) Just wondered if would you like yeah, converting the feeling into sound. OK. Those were the drums. This is the bass. (Bass) Here we have a kind of analog synth. (Ethereal sound) This one here is a kind of synth strings (Ethereal sound) that I've asked the machine to be limited that's F phrygian. I could also play it over here. (Ethereal sound) But when I reduce exactly the notes it causes me to think so it inspires something else Of course, we have the beautiful piano. (Piano) Then you got this arpeggio kind of vibe. (Harpsichord sound) And this here is my vocal effect. So, I've got a little pedal down here or what source the sound is pulled from. So if I just flick this switch - (Voice echo) ... in real time, which means we take some parts The way it happens up here and build them layer by layer, They stack upon one another, and each of the instruments So I can manipulate that I've asked previously so I can manipulate each one individually If I am not looping something live, either there's something until I feel like it's time or I don't want to spoil the reveal, or if I want the part to change or if there's something in the set up that makes me get to kind of get me in the zone. These guys are like my pet wolves, in that it's technology And they often sabotage me, but it's the price for this feeling as close to the source as electronically, technologically, for as little as possible for the essence of who we are (Music starts) (Singing) I used to play in a band [Inaudible] Something like that I used to play in a band [Inaudible] Something like that [Inaudible] Hmmm Hmmm [Inaudible] Hmmm Hmmm I was a rock star I was a rock star I never had a fast car I was a rock star I used to play in the band Hmmm, [inaudible] Something like that No need to get [inaudible] Hmmm [inaudible] Play the hi-hat [Inaudible] Hmmm Hmmm [Inaudible] Hmmm I was a rock star I was a rock star I was a rock star I was a rock star I was a rock star I get paid to play for real 20-inch drum and a bass head [Inaudible] 20 inch drum and a bass head 20 inch drum and a bass head 20 inch drum and a bass head 20 inch drum and a bass head (Music Ends) (Applause) Thank you. Thank you so much. (Applause)