On the 22nd of April, 1992, a series of city of Guadalajara, opening up a trench almost destruction was absolute. Hundreds were killed, damaged beyond recognition. As shocked survivors remained: what could possibly have caused this Guadalajara is one of the largest cities in rapidly, having just passed three million. It world-leading institutions - two universities numerous international sporting events. The day In the downtown Analco Colonia Atlas district it with people. Many of those people couldn't For days now a gasoline-like scent had been It had reached the point where it couldn't be nausea, stinging eyes and sore throats. Others taps would spit and sputter, emitting a liquid of water, and elsewhere drain covers rattled and pressure was building beneath them. By this stage and so would have been relieved investigations in the area. It was clear that but there was no indication that it was anything asked directly, workers assured residents that was no need for alarm. This wasn't entirely true. surveys over the past few days, revealing a Despite this, however, they weren't authorized the problem by searching for the source of the Those who did have the authority to order It would be a massive unprecedented operation and expense would be incredible. Rather than chose to focus on trying to resolve the problem To this end the city fire chief acknowledging that there were problems with was no risk of an explosion and urging everyone to on market day business continued as normal with At 10:05am the first explosion took place. Over by eight more, each one large enough to collapse and cave in the street itself to create a crater paved thoroughfares to rivers of mud and dust explosion could not necessarily flee to safety explosion would take place. Even as explosions a rescue effort was underway - ordinary people, for survivors while police and firefighters The army was sent in to help, and surrounding alert for any unusual activity - such as the Many, many people were pulled from the rubble, made homeless by the explosions were temporarily into morgues to contain the dead who could not be In some places bulldozers were brought in in order to create space for other heavy this was done very early in the rescue operation of survivors in the rubble. Local residents of the bulldozers to prevent them from flattening Elsewhere rescuers dug with whatever sometimes just their bare hands. The site affected for an impossibly complex rescue operation which Because the site was so complex the exact death 252 people had been killed in the disaster, this figure, arguing that the real death toll 15,000 made homeless, and at least 500 In the aftermath of the disaster a state oil company who managed a gasoline Displaced residents were enraged at the way in before the explosion they had complained of a only to be told there was nothing to worry instead asserting that a small cooking oil factory unsatisfied with this explanation, not least a number of smaller explosions in the years before continued to blame the cooking oil factory... a leak was found in Pemex's gasoline pipeline. the steel pipeline to a zinc-coated water pipe. causing the steel to corrode to the point into the ground. This gasoline seeped down Gasoline had flowed through the sewers until not pass. More and more gasoline had then built up As the sewers became saturated with gasoline spark set off the explosions. Pemex, then, was arrested and charged with negligence. Ultimately, The city mayor was also indicted, as it had complaints from residents and not to attempt an Pemex itself voluntarily paid a small while still denying all responsibility. This with little recourse. They had lost their homes, and it seemed that no real long-term help was them many couldn't even afford the medical The victims formed an association and campaign more compensation and help for those for whom the 30 years on many survivors still suffer the 1992, on a daily basis. City streets which were a trail of incongruously modern buildings through the city. The disaster at least focus the need for better monitoring Now in Guadalajara and in other cities across been installed to keep track of any trouble Previously, companies like Pemex dumped impunity. Now the disposal of waste via the The Guadalajara explosions transformed an entire doing so they drew attention to an often-neglected there lies a complex network of sewers and world which must be cared for and monitored every