We are now standing next to one of the most We're standing next to a mark 1 Spitfire. A very of, a gentleman called Reginald Mitchell, this ideas we're going to call it the 'Shrew', but synonymous with this aeroplane - the Between 1937 and 1947 Spitfires came out in their a terrible thing, but one thing it does bring is involved. In the seven years of Spitfires that dramatically from the mark 1 to the mark 24 which This is Britain's best-known fighter aircraft Spitfire, we've seen it in action, many of us have got what it takes. During the Battle of Britain, with Britain's anti-aircraft command, and between Obviously, Mitchell being a designer of racing a Spitfire is its wing. Taking 3 times as many Messerschmitt to build a mass-produced 109 wing. if you press the side of it it's like the back of the guns out quite a lot. The cannons initially Because of the wing, they had to tilt the cannons manoeuvres, as a fighter pilot would when he's jam. Another feature of a Mark 1 Spitfire, the Hand-doped and moulded to a streamlined We've come around to the nose of N3200 now, a are slightly different. One white wing for recognition so British gunners wouldn't with a black and white wing. Unfortunately, so we canned that idea quite quick. very beautiful and famous Rolls-Royce Merlin but in fighter trim 1,100 plus. Depending on how squadron you could, get in a mark 1, up to 1,300 Reginald Mitchell, as brilliant as the engineer unfortunately died at the time he was 42. Mitchell Spitfire fly. After that, all the development was Smith that oversaw all the development from the In the design of the Spitfire, which is a real at Dunkirk was I think a thousand horsepower maybe airframe was 2,400 horsepower with a two-speed, and everything the Germans admitted it in the end the same airframe designed by R.J. Mitchell who As we've said earlier we're going to be Now Spitfire started at 1 and ended in 24, but there were lots of different sub marks. Now For instance, the mark 1s and 2s of the and 4s. The next full production Spitfire was of Duxford's historical hangars now hangar And we're over now with a mark 5 Spitfire so from the mark 1 and the mark 2. A more powerful Ailerons now metal, but still with Now we have a fair bit more power, but in Germany had invented the Focke-Wolf 190 and a most respects except a high-speed dive from a very out of the way quicker, the beautiful elliptical or rather ceased to be put on from here from the original elliptical wing, but of course in to roll out of the way a lot quicker than it the surface area is not there, but rolling it was That's how the present Spitfire 5 was evolved. but for the squared-off wingtips and most versions BM597 has also been a bit of a tv star for those in the story Foyle''s son is and BM597 here starred in quite a few of the square ounce of power out of the mark 5 engine 5 Spitfires obviously needed to be replaced Okay so here we are now by the mark 9 MH434 started life on the production line at fin is just exactly the same as a mark 5. But by a 9. Rolls-Royce had come up with the two-speed, a four-bladed constant speed propeller. Two huge with between 1,650 and 1,700 horsepower a mark Focke-Wolf 190. But then when you get that kind of who's luckiest, or who can get the best fighter pilots in the wartime had the mark Air Vice Marshal Johnny Johnson, the high scoring that he chased a Focke-Wolf 190 through the When you see the 9 in action you'll notice all the curved underside, and small fin and rudder. with the pigeon breast beginning to disappear, and This particular mark 9 as I mentioned and most famous Spitfire in the world. There on serviceability at the time and MH434, other MH434 is also a bit of a film star, she has a Spitfire since the wartime. Operation the Battle of Britain of course and lastly that I know of a movie called The Land Mark Hanna was the son of squadron and ray and mark expertly flew this still beautiful and still famous and still here in And I flew the mark 1 which we had in 1940 in My favourite actually was the 9 because that had They did the same with the 21, but the 21 it was engine in a morris mini car or something. It but any manoeuvrability gone. But I never flew because it was right at the end of the war, So here we are in hangar two now at Duxford and quite a bit different to the previous Merlin it's because it's powered by the Rolls-Royce mark 9 and the mark 16 and the mark 8 Spitfire with 1,700 horsepower. A little bit more with a hornet. But Rolls-Royce had developed the over 2,000 horsepower, and a five-bladed propeller but mainly into squadron service as equalled just about anything with a propeller at The counterpart from Germany at the You have two aeroplanes there going through Really I don't care how powerful your piston the front of your aeroplane, you're not going Okay we're now going to go over to Many Spitfires were equipped for special some for bombing on special missions, and in their own hearts as hundreds of flying bombs All this time the royal navy's carrier-based enemy from the sea. These sea fires are playing a Here we are then, we've come a long As far as I'm aware the only Allied frontline the way through the war. From Mitchell's initial in 1947. In this time of course the jet was were entering the twilight of their career, aeroplane of this magnitude behind me still After the war, just because peacetime comes With a huge 36.9 litre Griffon engine, nearly 10 nearly twice the power, nearly twice the weight. made. From the nose we have a huge, five-bladed Merlin engine. The wings very different even Smith taking on Mitchell's initial design sleeker a lower back, and towards the end a huge tail of over 2,000 horsepower spinning The F-24 Spitfire or mark 24 completely the mark 1 spitfire, beautiful. The mark 24 looking, but still iconically sleek and iconic started life in 1947 and was soon swiftly sent Air Force. VN485 here took her last flight in Coming to visit Duxford allows people Spitfires all the way through here at Duxford all gathered together in one From the very early mark 1s all the Whether you can remember each separate they're all unmistakably of the Spitfire breed.