- I have millions of Legos here. That's one box. In each box of like a and we have dozens of boxes. Can I borrow yours and I want to fill it with presents. - Yes. - Seriously, I'm gonna need you to be away from your house for all day. You have to let me know - Okay. - Just leave and then filling up with stuff and So we got permission from Jake and Bailey to use their house for the day. - Yes. - And I told them there's presents and Legos are presents, I think. Let's go boys. So Jake and Bailey are gone. Before we dump the like 10 million Legos, we want put sheets on the floor, that way we don't like scratch the floor. So we can put the Legos on 'em. - Ah, like that. - Now that we put sheets down we're gonna start dumping the Legos. - That felt good. - More! Some of them were still in the pack, shh. Hey, Chandler. - Ow. - Ah. - You okay? We have a casualty! - Puncture wounds. - I wheel-y like Legos. Wheel-y, Wheel-y. - All right, take them up. Time to duel! I feel like we should ram into - Oh, I hit him in the nuts. - Chandler hit my nuts - Oh, did he? - All right, then that was payback. - Oh, my God it won't stop. It won't stop. - I'm gonna make a Lego angel. Ow! Ow! Ah! - All right, we're gonna play a game. We're gonna drop Legos on and the one here who stays - I got all day. - Chandler, are you gonna bail out first? - Yeah. - You're honest. - This really feels like I'm - My nuts hurt. - Last to move gets $300. - He won! - I have an actual brick imprint. Brick squad. - I don't have $300, I owe you So to make it look like we we put boxes on the ground here and, we're gonna put the Legos on these boxes, so it's a little more elevated. So it looks like we have like 30 million when we only have like 10 million Legos. If you're wondering why these guys literally just won this house. And this video right here, &quot;Last to Take Hand Off That's why there's no furniture here. Chandler lost. Are you still mad? You could have, you could - I'm mad. - That was pretty mad. See that? All right, I'm done. - He's scary when he's angry. - These are the Legos from the Lego house. - Hey, I wanted to say that! - Well, I said it. - I'm gonna- - Ow! - Ow. Hey, watch it. - Truce. - Yeah, just jump them down there. Every house needs a Lego - What's that hole for? - That's not nailed. Holy crap, and that's That is so many Legos. And we're just getting started. Chandler, go dive on the Legos. Can you confirm, is that a lot? - Yeah. - Now it's a lot. - So we're waiting on And while we're waiting 'cause we still have a lot more, we're gonna mess with all the other rooms. We're gonna cover Bailey's - Bailey. There's only room for one - Go on my Instagram and swipe up. - You just ruined all that work. - Ah, we can do it again. - Tomorrow's the first day of school and you lay your clothes out on the bed. - No, I beat him. - No, that's what I'm - No, I beat- - Now we're gonna fill Bailey's All right, now let's go And now this is Jake's bathroom. Chandler, you get in the bathtub. - Really? My socks! - So yeah, we're gonna fill Jake's room with purple and yellow balloons because he used to play for LSU. - You guys wanna play a mini game? Guess how long it'll take this balloon to pop from blowing it up. Guess the time, how long do for this balloon to blow up and pop? - 4.4 seconds. - I'll go with nine. - All right, ready? - 3, 2, 1, go. - Nine seconds, I won! - You switched. - You said, you said six. - No, he said nine. - So this is Jake's other room. So this room we're gonna fill with fans, 'cause Jake has lots of fans. - Do you think he'll want this fan? - Yes. - Are you a fan of Jake? Are, are you? Why did that require you to - Who farted, who farted? - Not me. - It was Chandler! It was Chandler. - Smells so bad, I'm going. I'm just gonna go in here. Since this rooms like a gas chamber. These are the fans from if a hundred fans can push a car. Which now, in hindsight, saying that, that sounded like a terrible idea. Let me know if one day you 'Cause we have like a hundred fans. A hundred leaf blowers. 10,000 condoms. A hundred million Orbeez. We have 10 million Legos. Dude, we have a lot of stuff. One of these days I'm gonna These are all the fans. Nevermind I'll find Someone like you I wish nothing but Don't forge me - That's it. You should go to SHOPMRBEAST.COM Also, four people that buy will get flown down here to You know how we just did a last to take hand off house keeps it? We're doing another challenge Except for the only people are people who buy merch So go to SHOPMRBEAST.COM, buy a shirt, buy a hoodie, buy a hat. Everything you buy will get you one entry. - You might get to compete against me, but it's only so you - That would be way too easy if you gotta compete against him. - Now we have a bunch of We're gonna fill Jake's 'Cause, why not? - I already put the angles here. Hello? - Hey Bailey, we are almost So can you come here in like 30 minutes? - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - Okay, thanks, sorry, we're moving in the new flat screen TV, bye. - Okay, bye. - I haven't told you guys about this yet, but since we trashed their whole house, we actually have real presents for them. We have two brand new and after we're done showing them around their destroyed house, we're to their cars and take 'em to it. Bailey is almost here. These are the last two boxes of Legos. He's about to walk through the - Wait, what does this say? T-Series, more like L-Series. - So we covered Bailey's We filled Jake's room We put whoopy cushions there. Filled Jake's bathroom with pillows and bouncy balls. Put bouncy balls in Bailey's bathroom. And littered their room Let's see how they react. - We spent the whole day in your house. What do you think we've done - Completely furnished it. - You want us to think but it's actually completely furnished with like the nicest stuff. Hundred percent, yeah. My idea is that it's wall to- - It's a pool table. - Pool table, pool table. - I'm gonna cut you guys off here, 'cause you you're, you're All right, go, go inside, boys. - There's stuff hanging from the ceiling. - There's a lot of Legos. - Let 'em get in the door. - I left my stuff, I'm just gonna- - Your first destination Take your shoes off. We don't want to make a mess. Take your shoes off. - Take your shoes off. - Take your shoes off, be courteous. - We got bubble wrapped. - Hey Jake, what are you - Now you should go dolphin dive into those Legos over there. - No. - Do you like it? - Comfy. - Chandler, is that it right there? - You look a little stuck. - It's not bad. - We definitely didn't do anything to any of the other rooms, just Legos. - It's a recliner. Audios gonna great later. All you're gonna hear is- - All right, guys. We got to show them the - There's more to this, Bailey. - Dude, I would go insane if I had to listen to this all the time. - All right, Bailey, you ready? And you're covering your nose, why are you covering your nose? - 'Cause they threw stuff at Oh, my. It's colorful. - I honestly would leave it up. Love that. - You can tell the &quot;I think we're done now.&quot; - Oh, my gosh. - What do you think of that? - Actually, you forgot the best part. - Look at your bath tub. - Should I get in? - Yes, absolutely. - Do you need some company? - Why is Chris taking his - You can't have your - I'm just gonna leave. - This is a bathtub, this isn't a pool. - This is a bathtub. - Dude, they're so cold. - Two bros Chilling in a bathtub - Hey, you guys can we'll be good in here. - We'll just be in here. - The sticky notes is awesome, dude. - Well, your rooms are even better. - Ha, you guys are getting - Let's check out this bathroom. - Dude, you could just lay down. - That's sounded hard. - Why are they wet? Why are they wet? Why is it wet? - Some of those are poop pillows, man. - You gotta get in your - There's water in here, isn't there? - All right, someone help me. - You're trapped. - Soaked. - What'd you guys think about the Legos? - That's insane. - Yeah, what'd you think - I like it actually. - Yeah, let's proceed - Hey! What the? - Because you played for LSU, Did you guys win a - No. - If you get this joke- - You're a level 10 Tik Tok-er. All right, Bailey you up. - My bad, my bad. - Is it the gummi bear one? - Yeah, he got it! - Nevermind, I'll find Someone like you I wish nothing but - Don't forget me, oh. - Now what? - The biggest gift of all. - Okay, all right, we're bringing your real presents out front. - I heard the, I heard the garage. - Heard the garage. - To the garage! - Oh we're going, we're going. - We're going. - Come see your actual present. - Close your eyes, don't peek. - There you go. - All right, open your eyes. - Yes! - Oh, garage, oh, whoa! - Is it on? - Turn it, twelve point turn. - Oh! - What's that? Whoa, is that money? - Yeah. - Uh oh, wait, you check the back? - You got a charger. - I like the car better. - Oh geez. - You trying to tell - I don't know how to make it turn off. - You press the power button. - Oh, come on! - What do you think of everything? - It's amazing. - Overwhelming, I'm overwhelmed. - I mean, if you don't you don't have to kick it. - I can't control my body. - I love the Legos. Seriously though, like Like you can keep them. - That's what I'm saying like, what if you guys just built That'd be cool. - I feel like I've seen that before. - Oh yeah, we did do that. I completely forgot about that. We're all done here. We have an army coming here We will have it all cleaned up, hopefully by the end of night. - I don't think we need to clean it up. - All right, you don't All right, see you later. - Mr. Beast, oh Mr. Beast, oh Mr. Beast, oh - All right, Jake Paulers, and as you can see, I just wanted to let you guys know that. Obviously we didn't make