There are people on earth who do not get sick or die from disease. At the International Cancer Congress, it was noted that this is the only nationality with a zero cancer rate. Their average lifespan is 120 years. They live in northern India, on the banks of the Hunza River. The English military doctor Robert McCarrison first spoke about them . In all his years of work, he has not met a single sick Hunzakut. The doctor meant serious illnesses, not short-term phenomena such as diarrhea, rashes or colds. It was this detail that critics and " myth busters" about the Hunzas latched on to. However, McCarrison and many other researchers did not consider these to be diseases, but natural phenomena inherent in the inhabitants of Dalin. McCarrison lived in close proximity to the Hunza Valley for 7 years. He came to the conclusion that diet is the main factor in the longevity of this people. If a person eats incorrectly, then the mountain climate will not save him from illness. It is therefore not surprising that the Hunza neighbors, living in the same climatic conditions, suffer from a wide variety of diseases. Their lifespan is half as long. In 1963, a French medical expedition visited the Hunzakuts. life expectancy of Hunzakuts is 120 years. And the oldest was 160 years old. The researchers also emphasized that 40-year-old women look like girls, remain slim and figure at 60 , and give birth to children at 65. Based on this alone, we can conclude that the Hunza diet is more effective than the Japanese and Mediterranean ones. This is the only place in the world where there are no cancers . In August 1977, at the International Cancer Congress in Paris, a statement was made: "In accordance with geocarcinology data, the complete absence of cancer occurs only among the Hunza people." Over all these years, many expeditions, scientists, gerontologists came to the Hunza Valley and they all agreed that the secret of the Hunzakuts lies in their diet and lifestyle. We analyzed all available arguments from researchers, as well as comments from critics, and compiled the following list. Secrets of health and longevity in the Hunza Valley. 1.Khunzakuts are very friendly and positive. They rarely get angry or complain. They are not nervous or impatient, and do not quarrel with each other. 2.They bathe in ice-cold water even at 15 degrees below zero. 3. Not only children, but also centenarian parents play outdoor games . 4. In summer they eat raw fruits and vegetables, in winter - sun-dried apricots and sprouted grains, sheep cheese. 5. Residents have a period when the fruits have not yet ripened - it is called the "hungry spring" and lasts from two to four months. During this period, they eat almost nothing and only drink a drink made from dried apricots once a day. 6. McCarrison emphasized that protein consumption there is low. They ate meat, but extremely rarely. Basically, when the animal was injured or died as a result of an accident. 7.Hunzas are very hardworking and walk long distances per day. They can walk tens of kilometers a day without fatigue. 8.They have a large amount of raw foods in their diet. The daily diet is dominated by vegetables and fruits. 9. The products are natural, grown only on our own soil, without any chemicals. They grow vegetables, fruits, herbs, and grain crops. 10. Products are cooked over fire while preserving all biologically valuable substances. 11.Very moderate consumption of salt, and they do not eat sugar at all. 12.Hunzas drink soft mountain water, without calcium. Robert McCarrison, returning to England, carried out interesting experiments on a large number of domestic animals. Some of them ate ordinary food (white bread, herring, sugar, canned and boiled vegetables). As a result, a wide variety of people began to appear in this group. &quot;human diseases&quot;. Other animals were on a Hunza diet and remained absolutely healthy throughout the experiment. What do you think about the Hunza people and their diet, feel free to leave a comment. If the video was useful, share with your friends and thank you for liking.