The United States lags behind the rest of the world when it comes to is dominating. The freight rail network in the U.S. operates over 140,000 miles of privately owned track in every state except It moves one-third of all U.S. exports and roughly 40 percent of long distance freight volume. The North American freight rail network is considered the most efficient, network in the world. It competes directly with the trucking industry to move goods around the And with the rise of e-commerce companies like Amazon, trains are If you see it on a shelf, we likely had a hand in moving it. There are seven major freight railroads that connect North America. Union Pacific and BNSF dominate the West. CSX and Norfolk Southern are the primary East Coast operators, while routes north and south. Amtrak, which is the United States passenger service, owns only three In 2019, the top five railroads in the U.S. had a total operating revenue of over $71 billion. BNSF, a subsidiary of Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway, is not publicly companies have seen their stock on a steady climb over the last several The railroads are incredibly profitable and actually are achieving profits That, unfortunately, is not true for passenger railroad. Amtrak continues to lose money. It's the only major for profit railroad in the United States that hauls The future of freight demand in this country is strong. Estimates of 30 to 40 percent increases in freight demand between now and But the freight rail industry success has not come without its challenges. The industry has dealt with bankruptcies, the lack of demand for coal and The seven top railroads, which owned the majority of the tracks in North industry. They tend to be very oligopoly and have an enormous amount of power and CNBC explores how freight railroads became so profitable and how the The U.S. railroad dates back to the year 1830 before airplanes or Passenger rail and freight were in high demand to move people and things It's been an economic backbone of the United States in many ways, plays a state of the economy. The railroad has seen many high and low points. By 1917, 1,900 railroads operated on 254,000 miles of track. The forties and fifties brought the rise of cars, air travel and trucking. Up until that point, there was basically no competition for passenger or Besides, other railroad companies and the industry was subject to federal After World War Two, the federal government built this incredible relax the regulatory standards on the rail industry, even though the It wasn't until 1980 when the Staggers Act was enacted that these It allowed railroads to choose routes, prices and services and brought Since then, many redundant routes and railroad mergers have consolidated There is a series of about five or six different mergers that allow the today. Without M&amp;A, chances are that rail as a percent of overall freight of our domestic freight network. Kansas City Southern just recently agreed to merge with Canadian Pacific, railroad linking Canada, the U.S. and Mexico. Today, the U.S. has some of the most profitable freight railroad businesses in the world, Passenger rail, however, has not seen a similar comeback. While freight railroads have invested at least $25 billion dollars a year rail has not had the same level of benefit when it comes to Amtrak. The federal government has traditionally been the primary funder of that have occurred in other countries. Experts say geography and privatization of the rail freight industry is why The rest of the world does things quite a bit differently. In most of the rest of the world, the rail network is nationalized. It isn't owned by a particular company. United States geography is the primary reason that freight, railroad and in other countries. A lot of what railroads depend upon are bulk ground, and a lot of those materials come from the center part of the And because these are going to non populated areas. Rail is really well positioned and is a far superior mode of traffic than These companies compete with each other, but also must work together and In order for us to provide service for a customer, say from the West Coast Those boxes, those car loads to a different carrier on the east side of Freight railroads are what I like to call the middle miles. And so when you're looking at international traffic, for example, on the either directly into train or into truck. Train takes the long miles, the middle miles of those trips and then hands So we all work together is one overall network. Through the reduction of companies and consolidation, railroad market power It are occasionally brought up in front of the regulators for not They're constantly under the lens and constantly accused of exercising pricing. Not so much on the intermodal traffic, which has to sort of stay goods that there isn't really an equivalent truck competition. The Biden administration issued an executive order last July that calls for reciprocal switching. Reciprocal switching is intended to foster more competitive environments The regulation would force them to open up the tracks to other freight creating a more competitive market. The practice is already common in Canada, and some freight railroads have When Amtrak was created, part of the deal was its passenger trains would Amtrak pays host railroads $142 million a year to use their tracks. It comes at a time when we're trying to move as much freight as we can undermine the fluidity of the freight network is frankly wrongheaded and The system works. The Surface Transportation Board is in place to adjudicate rate disputes determine whether or not a particular rate might be reasonable or not. The Surface Transportation Board, the agency who oversees economic matter in March. The railroad companies rely on the trucking industry, but Truck is the biggest form of competition for railroads in North America. Trucks have an advantage on the smaller shipments that are associated more We have a big advantage on what I would call bulk commodities that are Historically, a big portion of rail volumes came from moving coal In 2019, coal shipments were down 45 percent from their peak in 2006. Today, the rise of e-commerce and companies like Amazon have made Intermodal containers can move seamlessly from a ship to a train to a We've become a more intermodal intensive industry, and so things that we We're doing a lot more of that. It gives you more breadth and more reach in terms of the customers that The freight rail is the most environmentally friendly way to move goods We emit about twenty five percent of carbon emissions that are trucking One intermodal freight train carries upwards of two hundred containers, And for the railroads themselves, it's far more profitable. They can charge a much higher rate on a per mile basis by hauling commodities. Los Angeles and Chicago are the two top areas in the U.S. for intermodal trains. Theft of these boxes have been on the rise recently in L.A., Union Pacific found open and a trail of empty boxes lined the tracks. A handful of years ago, theft out of an intermodal box was a nuisance. Happened every once in a while wasn't organized. Today, over the course of about the last year and a half, that theft has We have a concentrated issue in the L.A. basin. Los Angeles ports are a crucial part of the global supply chain. The Port of L.A. and the Port of Long Beach together taken 40 percent of by water. Millions of containers and billions of dollars worth of goods Supply chain issues during the pandemic have led to a backup at the ports, When the supply chain is facing challenges. Freight railroads are facing challenges, and we've been working hard to do that's through operating twenty four seven. It's through working with our maritime and our trucking partners to keep economy going. As the industry looks to the future automation and the rise of self-driving industry's market share, If you think about on a per mile basis, there are estimates that an much as 70 percent. If that plays out, that's going to put significant pressure on the participate in that intermodal traffic. We see an awful lot of emphasis on autonomous trucks, and I'm pretty sure But we also then need to be able to automate the railroads to keep up with Union Pacific has invested in TuSimple, a self-driving truck startup as a It also said at the company's investor day in 2021 that ultimately our There are companies like parallel systems currently working on prototypes Of course, we're looking to be as competitive as we can and in the future. There's a lot of pieces that go into that, but certainly the technology we're pursuing those opportunities. Despite being the dominant mover of freight in the U.S., the trucking the pandemic. Labor, as a percent of overall railroads, is far less than what you see So autonomous is going to benefit the trucking industry far greater than railroads. I would fully expect that the railroads will fight through boxed in and tightly regulated, and will be a big constituent that pushes Trucking makes up 27 percent of jobs in the transportation industry The rail industry declined by 40,000 jobs from November 2018 to December Railroads also have their own set of issues as it relates to labor. The unions that are fighting them on things like precision railroading, more dependable, but also mean that there's less labor and humans involved Precision scheduled railroading is an operational innovation that helped turn the It adds, and mixes freight cars onto longer trains for fewer trips and Unions have not particularly liked it, but shareholders of the railroads proper appreciation and the efficiency of the railroads for the past There's pressure to protect jobs. The regulators have to be very, very careful that we don't end up back in industry has evolved, being highly innovative and automated, and rails are government has said you will have a two man crew rule. Despite these criticisms and the number of employees in both trucking and not stop. The projected growth for freight volume in the U.S. is expected to grow 50 percent by 2050. And it's important that people realize that we're out there working out on We've done that throughout the pandemic. We've done that throughout the supply chain challenges we've seen, and