Hey econ students. This is Jacob Clifford. Welcome In these videos I explain all the concepts unit exam, or final exam... but remember it's a summary video. I'm going take a look at my other videos on YouTube. This video is going to cover Unit 2 Before we jump into it, make sure goes along with this video. It'll concepts and it gives you some So right now, pause this video download and print Let's start with a quick overview of the five big picture concepts that you need Number one, economists measure the healthy economy domestic product, the unemployment rate, and the Number two, the circular flow businesses, and the government, interact. Number three, gross domestic product, or GDP, is the dollar value of all final goods and Number four, there are frictional, structural, and cyclical. The economy is at full employment Number five, real GDP is adjusted for or unchanging dollars. Nominal That's it for an overview, now Topic 2.1 starts with the circular flow teacher or professor is going but it is going to help you It all starts with households and own the factors of production and sell Businesses use those factors, or resources, to produce goods and services and sell Households pay for goods and services with money and businesses use that money to These are called Factor Payments. For labor, paid rent. For capital, they get interest, And this is why it's called the circular resources, and money all flow in a market economy. But a mixed economy also includes the government, to buy goods and services, like fire engines, The government provides public goods and services, like fire protection and schools, These are government payments made subsidies or public assistance, The government's not buying something, instead they're trying to So that's it this is the circular flow model. But there are two things missing. First spent but instead saved and lent out to The second is other countries that buy goods We're going to learn about the Unit 4 and international trade Right now we're just going to look at a closed Every economy has three economic they want to limit unemployment, And that's all we're really doing in this unit. We're talking about those three goals and The most important measurement of economic activity and growth is gross GDP is the dollar value of all final goods and And remember there's three ways to measure the income approach, and the value added approach. The most important one by far It adds up all the spending in most important equation in all Think of it this way. A car can only be purchased by one of four entities. It can be purchased by consumers, by a business, by the government, If you add up all the spending in those four So if you bought a new car for yourself If a business buys that car, like a taxi company, that's counted towards GDP Now be careful here. In this class the word investment is used completely different Investment is always business like tools machines and factories. Things It's never ever the idea of bonds or retirement accounts. That G stands for government spending. It's like that new car was purchased by Government spending includes public goods and public services, like But it doesn't include transfer are not counted in GDP because no new good The last part of the equation is So if a new car was produced in that counts as an export for the United States. Now let's slow down here for a second. There's Students see that negative number and they assume buying things from another country But that doesn't really make any sense If an American buys a car from Japan that What's really going on here is buys a car produced in another country that since GDP only measures domestic economic The point is, buying things from other Now this is what the expenditures For the US almost 70% of GDP is consumer spending. And notice net exports is negative. That's Again I'm going to cover all that with international trade and The second way to measure GDP is the income you add up all the income. And that The best way to think about it is by The expenditures approach adds up all the spending The income approach adds up all the The equation for the income approach is not but it's right here: wages plus rent plus So sometimes you might see a question that's just the same thing as the GDP. It's the The last way we measure GDP approach. It adds up all the value added So instead of just looking at the up the value added by the mining the steel mill that refined the steel, You're probably not going to see many questions the most important thing is methods for calculating GDP and the I just covered a lot so let's make video and fill out Topic 2.1 on your study guide. And remember if you need more help take a look In Topic 2.2 we're going to of GDP. Now this is where your you a ton of questions about what counts Remember that GDP doesn't include all this year, so buying or selling anything Also GDP doesn't include intermediate goods, or goods that are used in the So we just add the price of the new car. Not And GDP doesn't include like buying stocks and bonds. That doesn't Also illegal or non-market transactions they exist and really they're Now with all that in mind let's practice. is to find out do they count or not Pause the video figure it out Did you get them right? I hope so. Cheese ball Number one doesn't count because Number two does count in GDP because education is a service. So remember goods Number three counts but it's not an example of investment. Number four doesn't count that's an example was being created. Remember stocks Now number five does count towards GDP and but it's actually not. That's This gets to the little details of what counts spending but it's also consumer spending on So technically, if you buy a new house, that actually considered investment when But don't freak out about those little going to ask you general questions about But of course you are going to have to video fill out Topic 2.2 inside the study guide. Okay now let's talk about unemployment. Now listen. This is your last week kill somebody next week or we're going to There's several definitions and equations To get an accurate idea what's we don't want to include kids The labor force are the people who or actively looking for one, and it doesn't The labor force participation rate is divided by the working age population times 100. The unemployment rate is the number divided by the number of people To better explain it here's a visual The total population includes everyone can't work. When you take them out that But that includes people who don't want a job like you take them out you end up with the labor And it's inside the labor force that we looking for a job but they don't have And when that unemployment rate goes up or down that shows you what's going When you see questions on this, remember The first one is discouraged workers. These are job so they're no longer counted as unemployed So if a bunch of people stop looking for rate to go down making the economy look The second thing you have to look out for is workers are considered fully employed I think you got it so let's like one of the ones you're going The table below shows the number of three questions and be sure to show your work. The labor force includes people with jobs both are unemployed. It doesn't include discouraged The labor force participation rate force which is 200 divided by the working So it's 200 divided by 250 time 100 so 80%. So 80% of the people who are eligible to work The unemployment rate is the number divided by the labor force, I promise you you're going to see questions Now the other thing you have to know Frictional unemployment is when people are college and looking for their first job They have skills and there's jobs for them Structural unemployment is when people for them because the structure These are people like VCR repair men. They Another cause of structural unemployment is technology. Some jobs become obsolete The last one is cyclical unemployment and Thee economy is doing poorly so people need less workers so they lay off those Now to help you remember the three types a trick that I learned this summer. Let's start with frictional unemployment. put them together rub them together. Like that. That is frictional unemployment. are people between jobs. You got to dance it out! Structural unemployment happens because of And cyclical unemployment happens economy so here we go. Here comes I know it's dumb but it's going to help you Frictional unemployment is between jobs. machines, and cyclical unemployment happens There's one more thing you have to remember in No matter what the economy we will always We're always going to have some frictional and we're always going to have some structural So the economy is doing great and at full and structural unemployment. That's It's the amount of unemployment that exists the United States that natural have 4% unemployment we're actually doing It'll make more sense by going back the production possibilities curve. Question, what type of unemployment do Now you might have said cyclical It's not just cyclical, it's all three. have a recession we're going to have If the economy is here and we're doing and we still have frictional So that means we can be out here when structural unemployment and So we can draw another line that though that's not the goal and But the point is we can be beyond frictional and structural economy is overheating and eventually I'm going to be explaining all that in the the goal is to have the natural rate Now other countries might have policies like offering more unemployment Paying people more money when they unemployment as people take longer to find jobs. So the number of the natural rate might change Before you fill out your study guide, do me a and love economics, please consider It's a great way to thank me for helping you and it tells other students Okay now it's time to practice. Pause this 2.3. If you can answer those questions So far we've talked about how to measure with the unemployment rate. Now we're going Remember one of the goals of every economy inflation. It's okay and expected if What we don't want is massive spikes in The most common measurement of inflation Economists take a market basket services and track it over time The equation for CPI is the value of year divided by the value of that same This pops out an index number that tells you For example if the value of a market basket is $20 then the CPI is 125. This means that So if the CPI is 90 that means prices decreased 10% since the base year and By the way, this is what CPI looks like in real life with 1982 being the base year. You you can also see they've actually been But right here you can see it's increasing at prices are still going up but just not as fast. Make sure you know those three terms. Inflation are going down, and disinflation means prices The CPI is great but sometimes actually going on with prices. For If the price of beef increases, the CPI are buying beef but in reality they In that case the CPI is overestimating paying those high prices even though they're not. The big idea here is that all three measurements CPI, they're not perfect. Each of them have Now trust me, CPI is one of those concepts and practice so pause this video fill out In topic 2.5 we dive deeper into Most importantly make sure you know who is The people that are hurt are lenders and people with fixed incomes like retirees. If your grandpa earns $2,000 a month there's unanticipated inflation that's he's definitely going to get hurt by inflation. The people who benefit from anticipated inflation are borrowers that borrow So if you take out a loan at a 10% fixed be 2% but it pops up to 8% you're paying back Now's a good time to point out that this stuff inflation because someday you're going to have If there's a 2% increase in inflation then you know you have to ask your boss for To make better decisions you have to to change in the future and that's why &quot;The man's logic is sound&quot; This topic was super short so right now pause Now in 2.6 we're still talking about inflation. In addition to the CPI there's something else Instead of just looking at a market basket, the nominal GDP, and compares that to the And the equation is very similar to the CPI. everything, the nominal GDP, divided by that value And just like the CPI it pops out an index number that tells you what's going on with But unlike the CPI, it's not it's looking at the prices for all And the reason it's called removes the inflation or deflates the nominal GDP. Just remember the nominal GDP distorts We use the deflator to show what's But your teacher or professor is not the GDP deflator?&quot; They're going to here are two practice questions. Pause This is why you have to know the $300 divided by $250 times 100 gives you 120. And you need to be able to take solve for x. So if the real GDP is $160 deflator of 120 divided by 100 gives Again you got to trust me, like the things you're going to be calculating not enough to just watch me do it. So when you're done watching this make sure to take a look at the multiple choice And when you're ready, do the free look at a video where I go over all those answers. But right now, pause this video and The last topic in this unit talks already know something about them because you This is where you see the like the circular flow model, it's on exam. Instead it shows you The economy goes up and down over time and there's trough when the economy is at its lowest, then There's a peak, when the economy is at its height, then there's a recession, And this trend line represents the idea of full employment or our potential GDP when But the actual GDP might be higher The big takeaway here is that any point in time It can have a recession, or a negative output gap, when there's all three types of unemployment and It can be at full employment where the so there's only frictional and cyclical unemployment and that means we Or it can have an inflationary when there's still some unemployment structural unemployment and the economy is the potential GDP and all that spending Remember these three situations. In the them on different graphs and then start For now, understand the economy goes up and down over time but it can only Okay that's it for this topic. Right now pause this video fill out Topic Okay that's it for Macroeconomics only a few equations you have You're going to be fine. We're going to move on to harder stuff in the future. Thanks