Transcriber: A Birsa Are you aware of the fact gives you more communication power That's only 50 years ago. Now, this shows that technology with whole new opportunities. And if you look at, the time it took before half actually had one took more than 50 years. A century later, the first and that only took 16 years And then a few years later, That only took six years. Now, what does this show us? This shows us that not only technology is it also shows us that the adoption time - the time it takes for you is decreasing dramatically. Now, this has huge implications but also on our whole business landscape. And it means organizations really need to start innovating. Now, luckily, most of the CEOs according to a study - that innovation is a key priority. However, saying so It's all about execution. It's not about having a bright idea it's about what you do with it. Now, in the same study, they actually looked at how successfully And unfortunately, put innovation as a key Now, it is hard to innovate. And why is that? If as an organization it's very difficult to do so Firstly, innovation is, per definition, Most of the larger organizations nowadays are not set up They have - I would call it So the corporate antibodies will come and attack those new And secondly, innovation is about long-term results versus most of the organizations are all driven by very short-term And thirdly, even though a lot &quot;Of course, you're allowed employees don't feel it that way. Failure is not an option Now, I'm not surprised to see that - if you look at a study from Oxford that looked at the biggest they predict that almost half of it That's five years from now. Imagine the biggest corporations, five years from now Why? Because they simply won't be able to cope due to technology. Now, this has huge implications. How do you cope with this change? How do you remain And the interesting thing here is that most of these organizations however, they were designed or maybe even in the 19th century. I truly believe to be innovative and I've been in the innovation space it's not about finding It's not about having or having innovation in your strategy. It's about finding people that are passionate and want to drive a change. Now, let me give you an example. In the organization that I work for, and Rob was, or is, an accountant. Now accountants, as you might know, They check the balances of companies. And he's been doing so for over 10 years. He's a young, enthusiastic guy, full of enthusiastic And one day, his wife said, &quot;Listen, I have this great app. And look, I can just put in and it tells me how the dosage And he said, &quot;Well, that's interesting. How do you actually know that what the app tells you - And she said, &quot;I don't know. I downloaded it from the App Store, So he said, &quot;Well, why don't we go from doing to doing the accountancy on medical apps? Let's check these apps!&quot; Now, you can imagine the corporate when he went to his bosses. They said, &quot;Sorry? Medical apps? Why don't you just continue which is checking financial statements?&quot; Then he came to us, and said, &quot;Listen, I have this great idea! We should do something with medical apps.&quot; And we said, &quot;Okay, we'll offer you a job. Come and work for us, Now, did we hire this guy No. Did we hire him because he had Nope. Did we hire him and because he believed Definitely. Nowadays, this guy, Rob, where he never used to talk gives guest lectures and is every week on stage at one or the other Where he was used to sitting he now leads a team, and sells his own stuff. So just by giving him he is now been opening a whole and finding a wide area This is easy to explain as an example, but it's not that easy We have also started, in our organization, with doing all these processes: ideation, generating a lot of ideas, You've probably all heard But basically, it's really about finding And if you give them the right conditions, you will see that they can drive Now, what are these conditions? Because passionate people they see possibilities. They don't see impossibilities; They don't work because they work because They don't work for a salary; Now, as a large organization, it's very crucial to give these people So let me share with you that I feel are valuable. Firstly, hire people based on their passion Now, why is it when we look at a resume, we hire people based on that while the only thing It doesn't look forward or what you want to achieve as a person. So hire passion instead of skills. Secondly, create a safe environment It makes no sense if these corporate antibodies attack them. You need to create a place where they can fully spend working on whatever they feel And thirdly, excuse my English, introduce and give them Now, what is the &quot;I fucked up&quot; card? It's not when they make a stupid mistake No, it's for them and the entrepreneurship mentality So how it works - you give them a card. If they don't use it And it stimulates them (Laughter) which they otherwise wouldn't have tried. And if it goes wrong, you, as their boss, take responsibility. Now, if you look at the impact that it had on our organization it's tremendous. My point is that it's about people. Remember I said you had that gave you more communication power It is worthless if you don't have the right people You need people that truly If you want to do, as an organization, if you want to change, if you want to remain and don't be part of that half that will no longer exist, make sure you hire people Make sure you give them the full freedom and give them the &quot;I fucked up&quot; card. Now my question to you. You will all receive one (Laughter) Who are you going to give it to? And what are you expecting But I can guarantee you there will be something True innovation is not about It's about finding the right people: people that believe in something and people that have a true passion. Thank you. (Applause)