Hollywood, maker of make believe, Lotusland, Cinderella City, Hollywood, weaver of fantasies and the dream factory hub of Hollywood that lures young factory and farm, all at the end of the rainbow. For some, the dream is realized. For others, their hopes and on the shoals of despair, but still, they come. Behold them, dewy-eyed, a flood of femininity, Will they soar to stardom, find a permanent niche Or like the moth and the flame, plunge like a meteor into What does fate hold in store for them? What is their destiny? Let us seek the answer through the eyes of one of these young hopefuls, as we follow her quest A young hopeful like Mooch. Mooch is here Watch out Hollywood La, da, di Mooch has come here to stay This town Won't be the same again Brothers may Never quite succeed Mooch will stay She's a whole different breed Best of class, no pedigree Mooch has a dream Dreaming of stardom To make it big in Hollywood A facelift too Before she's through Mooch is here Mooch is here Mooch, I can see you are new in this city. So let me give you some advice. If you want to make a career I will tell you what not to do, what to do, and when to do it. This is no good for you. Keep your fur on, Mooch. Ask Mickey. He'll tell you no news is good news. And now you have come Look down at the famous They will last forever. In the old days, they It was exciting. All the stars getting walking on the red It's a marvelous - Now, wait a minute. Mooch, that Why don't you make a wish? Oh, I know this producer is Look, I'll tell you how to make it in Hollywood, baby. Talent has like nothing Acting don't even matter. It's who you know in this town. And it's who you're seen with that counts. And it's who you're seen with that counts. Don't take her advice. It's not who you are seen with. It's who you are marrying, To make a career, darling, you must go where the producers, directors, and the money Good girl. Mooch, you're wasting your time. Get into the Brown Derby. Don't be discouraged. Try the back door. - Can we, you do like the script, right? - Yes, as I told you, I like everything about - But the boys will fix- - Look, look, darling. There is someone to be seen It's really Vincent Price. Hallelujah Hallelujah Hallelujah, hallelujah Hallelujah, hallelujah Hallelujah, hallelujah Quick, be charming. Tempt him. Tease him. You know, they can't wait. Why should they wait when No, I can't do it. Haunt him. Why can't we tell him what to do? Try tantalizing. - Arthur does all my talking for me, Sam. Be sexy. Fabulous. You do like the- - I told you I like - We got a whole crew standing by. He was there for Johnny. - Thanks for lunch. - Talk to, I'll call you tonight then. Here you are, Mel, thank you. Kiss his ear! See, darling. It always works. - Now that we've been you might as well sit up front with me. - Congratulations. Oh, I'm afraid he's Poor Vince. Mooch is here Proud and all Little old, wondering where Where, oh, where will they go Hey, town, you've opened up your door, Going to a movie studio Going to play that Hollywood game She'll even have her own analyst Mooch has a dream She's on her way now You better watch out Hollywood When Mooch rides by the boy dog side Mooch is here Mooch is here Mooch is here Bev Air Pet Clinic. Oh, this is marvelous! He's starting to invest Let's face it. Every girl needs a little fixing up before she becomes a star. And darling, you need your - Hello. I'm Mr. Price. This is Shaggy. Is Dr. Hackett free? - Yes, Mr. Price. If you will just be seated, I'll tell him you're here. - Mr. Price, the doctor will see you now. - Oh, thank you. Thank you. - Doctor, Mr. Price is here. - All right, I'll be Well, look at this, it reckon he has an ulcer. And what's the problem here? - Well, Doctor, I was when somehow or other, - Nurse, prepare the - You know, I don't know how, but well, she got into the she was sitting right in Name of patient, please. - Well, I call her Shaggy. - Next of kin. - Well, I guess it's me. - You got papers on this dog? - Oh, no, no. As I said, I was just leaving the Derby when she turned up. - This could get you in a lot of trouble. - Trouble? But she's just Look, Doctor, the reason I well, I have a kid who's and he is just dying to have a dog. - I was reading in the medical journal about a case similar to this. A man picked up a dog who was an alien in the country illegally. Wound up in a lot of litigation. Finally took his house away. - Is that how the canary got an ulcer? - Huh? - Well, look, Doctor, all I want you to do is just examine her and make sure that she's all right. And I'll send the boy around Hmm? Oh, it's all right, honey. It's all right. You're going to have a good home. Look, I'll come and visit Oh, now take it easy. Sweetheart, take it easy. I love you, but I can't keep you. Now, now, now you be a good girl, and I'll come see you Bye-bye sweetheart. Bye-bye. - Nurse, gimme a hand here. Well, that's One moment of promises, ecstasy, then thrown away like a broken toy. Don't be sad. I stay with you. Darling, remember, it's who That was for Fang. Everybody loves somebody sometime Why don't you take and come on in? Look, it's I can tell you a lot of young girls have been discovered Oh, that's a bunny. Go in, go in, Mooch. What Oh, poor baby. It always helps to change your top when you have been rejected. It's good for the morale. Darling, stay rejected. Whatever you have in mind, I must tell you the terrible news. There are very few parts Yeah! Yay! Take it off, honey! Take it off! Take it off, take it off! Keep it on. Keep it on. Oh, now we are getting lucky again. There's a handsome one for you. It's James Darren. It's really James Darren. Hallelujah Hallelujah, hallelujah Hallelujah, hallelujah Hallelujah, hallelujah Hallelujah, hallelujah I think I know what type Be sweet, demure. Look what happened to Grace Kelly. She got herself a prince! More like Grace. Better go back to be sexy. You must get his attention! Clever, Mooch. I couldn't - Hey, what happened to you? Oh. Oh, you weren't hit. You're That's a good girl. Hey, does this dog belong to anybody here? No tags, looks like you don't Huh? Let's see if you can stand Come on, sweetheart. That's a good girl. You know what, Sunshine? I was just about to head for the beach. You feel like going for a ride? Wonderful. Compromise him. He'll never get out of this. Hey, Jim! - Hey, would you wait Hey, would you guys keep - Sure. - Now, you be a good girl - That'll do it. - He'll be back. Get a nice tan. Mm-hmm. You see blondes have all the fun. Ha-ha, not always! Don't walk There's producers all along this beach. Why, three girls have been discovered here already this summer. Here is an opportunity. Go with them. Wiggle like they are wiggling. You pose too. Follow them. You wouldn't want to make it What goes on here? Oh, I bet he doesn't have You're wasting your time. Bravo! You're better Yay! Oh, darling, you're hopeless. Your chiffon. - Hey, Sunshine. Did you miss me? Going Hollywood already, huh? Hey, if you take those off, we'll go for a little Come on. Don't panic. I know you were here once before, but that's our little secret. Don't fight it. Be casual. When you are in the Be nice of nurses. And if the doctor says he knows - Hi I'm Mr. Darren. Is Dr. Hackett in? - Oh, yes, Mr. Darren, if I'll tell the doctor you're here. - Thank you. He ate my gloves. Congratulations. You must be very proud. - Mr. Darren, Dr. - You say the temperature's normal? Good. Good. Now, she's to have no solids. Plenty of liquids, that's very important. And rest, lots of rest. I guarantee if you do that, she'll be back on her perch - Dr. Hackett, Mr. Darren. - Oh, yes. - Hi, Doc. - I found this dog this morning while I was down at the garage, and she just kind of attached herself. - Nurse, prepare the - She's a great dog. You know, I took her down to the beach and we spent the whole day together. Name of patient, please. Oh, Sunshine. - Next of kin? - Well, I guess me. - I've seen this dog someplace before. I never forget a muzzle. Dog I'm referring to was Very sullen beast, morose, neurotic. - Oh, no, that couldn't be Sunshine. She's one of the happiest - Yeah, she looks pretty familiar to me. Of course, I wouldn't testify I remember a classmate made that mistake. Very famous case involving even the casks were identical. Picked the wrong one, ended his career, took to drink, horrible. - Yeah. Well, look, I was wondering, Doc, could I leave the dog here You do take boarders, don't you? - Yeah, we have excellent - Nurse, send for the attendant. - Yes, Doctor. - Hey, hey, sweetheart. Listen, hey, I'll be - Attendant, take this - Yes, sir. - You be a good girl, you hear? just as soon as I'm through Take care, Doc. Thank you very much. - It's a pleasure. Oh, no, I had no This is terrible. It's like the &quot;Last Mile.&quot; Mean old man. Don't give up, Mooch. Keep on trying! You're doing it. You did it! The world is yours. The world really will be yours, darling if you can just get into that studio. That's it. This is where you really belong. &quot;Rhett, as God is my witness, Underneath a lamppost Guess who's coming to dinner? Who? She ran thataway. Mooch, go in there. This is Jill St. John's dressing room. And that's really Jill St. John! Hallelujah Hallelujah, hallelujah Hallelujah, hallelujah Hallelujah, hallelujah Hallelujah, hallelujah Hallelujah If she advises you, listen. But remember, she's also a woman. And you are competition. - Hey, little dog. What Come on, out. Now you stay right You know Mr. Albert, you mustn't be too hasty She could be a contract player. They're always discovering Are you talented, darling? Well, she is. What did I tell you? She's probably even got her own series. - Really? - I'll only be a few minutes, darling. And then you can have the chair. Really? - Aw, don't think it's But I think since you're I should give you a little advice. Let's see your profile. Other side. That's it! That is your good side. Remind the cameraman. And be sure to tell him no close-ups after four o'clock. Really? - Oh, and the eyes! The eyes mirror the emotions. Now, I know you have great inner depth, but the audience doesn't. Now, I suggest shading Right, Mr. Albert? Oh, really. Miss St. John. Ready on the set. - Coming! You'll have I'm due back on the set, but we'll continue this some other time. Dinner, cocktails. Call me. Oh, good luck with your series, dear. - Oh! Really? Come and they go. They use a shampoo. You're beautiful! If I do say so myself. Diamonds, Mooch. At last, now, you look like a star. - Polly want a cracker. Now he weighs 500 pounds. He has indeed. Have I drank, my dear? Yes. It's Jim Backus. By George, it's Jim Backus. - Oh, he's shy and bored, you're Welcome to San Clemente! New Year's Eve party! Get out the paper hats. Champagne, my dear? I even like the corks. Pow! Wow! Well, hello there, my dear. Oh, you're a beautiful little girl. You're all gussied up too. Hey, whose dog is this? Anybody own this dog? Well, you just wandered in, is that it? Hey, I'm doing a guest shot, and we need a dog that Would you like to be on Would you? Well, now, you're in show business. The star might break a leg. We'll dance our way into their hearts. Made it big You're big in Hollywood You're a star All that hustle paid off You're number one, you're top dog now Get it on, Mooch Lap it on up now And you can hear your public say It was your style that drove them wild Mooch is here Darling, you made it. It's fantastic! In such a short time, look Oh, the Bev Air clinic. - Darling, the people are all here. Oh, where did you get this haunted mutt? - This is Mrs. Magoo. - Mrs. Magoo? Oh, she's darling. - You know the TV special I wanna show her to the producer. - A great idea. You know, the casting And as for you, I get 10% of the bone. We gotta go. - Is here? Well, David, here he is. Henny! Well, Jim, at this party, you're Oh, Dave, you See, I told you they were all here. - Oh, you finally got him here, huh? - Yes, but not alone. - She's adorable. So are you, Kathie. - Oh, dear. - I want you to say hello to Mrs. Magoo. - Hey, Rosie! Oh, how are you? - Meet Mrs. Magoo. - Oh, then here, have a potato chip. - Oh, come on. Forget it Hey, Jerry! You're the guy I wanna see. - Henny! Who's your friend? - You know that TV special we're gonna do together? - For the comedy spot, huh? - Hey, she got any talent? - Any talent? Watch her. Little audition, baby. There you go. - Hey, she's terrific. You know something? That dog will go far. - Don't forget, I'm her agent. - Hey, Perry. Remember, remember, it's who you are seen with that counts. - I think a cigar would Don't you see? It would go with it. - Look great deal like you then. - Oh, it does. - Certainly it does. - Well, look at our little &quot;Are you interested in art too?&quot; - Well, hello there. - Isn't she beautiful? - Adorable. Look at that long eyelashes, - they're longer than mine. - Yeah. - Thank you. - Say goodnight, Vincent. - Goodnight, Vincent. But it's far. Don't you? You do it all time. - Didn't I meet you in a beauty parlor? The world is yours! Mooch, this is what I had in Fame, fortune. Oh, there's Vincent Price, and James Darren, and Jill St. John! They recognize you, all is lost. - Well, what do you know? It's Shaggy! - Hey, that's Sunshine! - Well, hello, Princess. Don't just stand there. Hide, even though you are only a mutt. - Shaggy, I remember you. - That's Sunshine. - Oh, little Princess. - I know it's Mrs. Magoo. Sure she fooled me. - What are you doing here? - That's how I never forget a muzzle. - Look at that little girl. She rode all the way out Sunset Boulevard. And came along and I can- - That's the dog I found at the garage. - Princess, why did you leave like this? - You fooled me. I You're just a little, came in - and crashed the party. - I know, that's the dog. Acting so badly, that's the movie she's. We've been had! All over the food. Poor darling. You have come so close Mooch, don't give up. Let's make one more try. I know this is not why but darling, don't be sad. Show business isn't everything. And this will last much longer. This is Richard wherever you are.