This video is better on Nebula, both because it up with an exclusive recording of a live Okay, shh, now the video's starting for Sometimes, huge feels bigger than infinite. Let me explain. No Man's Sky is, more or less, infinite. A space game with 18 quintillion planets, approaches the number of planets in our actual it shoots right past meaninglessness. I can no more easily conceptualize one quintillion It is so big that words fail. But allow me to present a counter-example, The racing game FUEL. Developed by Asobo Studios in 2009, FUEL is handling and weird opponent AI. And yet, FUEL has a serious claim to fame; hundred square kilometers, or five thousand This is obscene. I have thought about Fuel for more than a number, 120 klicks long, 120 klicks wide, upon in the middle. That's 370 times larger than Skyrim, nearly It is so big that the entirety of a real-scale hardly even dominates the space. It is as big as...Connecticut. Or Puerto Rico. And this number still, basically, rounds down Man's Sky or Elite Dangerous, but it sure one direction and drive for literally hours. It doesn't feel like zero when you watch the course of miles of road. You might have recognized the name Asobo Studios Microsoft Flight Simulator 2020, a game that Earth, one of the most staggering technical In hindsight, Fuel seems like a test-run for generation and satellite imagery that can, And, while I love Flight Simulator and have Fuel the stranger cultural object. Unlike Flight Simulator, or No Man's Sky, to vehicles that can cross vast distances You have a car, a grounded, limited, car, and options are so limited, Fuel still- to way. In the decade after Fuel's release, two out, Ubisoft's The Crew and The Crew 2. Unlike Fuel, which covers an undefined portion makes its map explicit; it is the whole country, Kinda. The maps of The Crew games are large, but United States. To adjust for this, the America of The Crew country from memory maps." You can map the roadtrip of your dreams in instance, LA to San Francisco will reveal The graphics and detail are a significant the artifice. You can, hilariously, visit many landmarks to be in a Denny's parking lot, or Mesa Or my favorite, Niagra Falls, which has been of it. Cities demonstrate this same artifice in a what appear to be the average of all possible "50% off- buy one get second one- t-shirts Or this bookstore with a large banner that that it is actually a secondhand and antiquarian inspection is actually a grocery store, or The Crew games, while easy to make fun of, than Fuel. The squashing of America down to a handful is a genuinely interesting idea to explore. But I still come back to Fuel. Because while its cities are even less compelling like butt, there's this indefinable power You can start driving through a dried up Grand going, the cliff walls stretching into the Fuel refuses to make the landscape small in Simultaneously, it doesn't push its procedural creating a quintillion planets consisting It pulls a trick far more stubborn and yet, It refuses to fake the space. If you are anything like me, you've probably point, and run into your own personal conflict. What counts as big? What's a cheat? What's a technicality? One of the biggest ever video game maps is on MS-DOS in 1996. Daggerfall looks like this, its world map size of Great Britain." And I look at that and think...okay, sure Daggerfall has several large regions, and procedurally generated; the exceptionally has a video walking across Daggerfall's videos in the playlist is 7 and a half hours Each generated world of Minecraft has the Earth. But Minecraft is, of course, randomly and The fact that there's essentially no authorship Daggerfall continent lessens their impact. This rationalization of what feels big and Fuel uses plenty of procedural generation, km of terrain. But Fuel's procgen works in conjunction small enough that it can still feel huge rather Essentially what I'm saying here is I'm registers as big, rather than the raw numbers. And while I've talked about map size as found these moments, awe at the sheer size A single instance of big-ness shattering the Am I speaking complete gibberish right now? As I'm writing this, I genuinely can't Anyway. A lot of game development is creating the progression out of several distinct pieces. I remember being mind-blown many years ago of War 2, in which they note that if a piece exist. This makes sense for titles with a fixed camera any style of game to take what we might consider on what the player will see rather than real-world As digital explorers like the YouTube channel straightforward environments, like the office They're essentially games' version of ways to communicate a grander space while and memory. Because games don't have to abide by real-life the endless staircase in Mario 64 is an iconic Near the top of the castle, the player finds up them. The music continuously works its way higher you're 10-year-old me you might run up these realizing...you haven't moved at all. It's a trick as simple as it is effective- almost continuously, creating an illusion It's fun to think that, even in the early having fun with tricks of perspective and But there are counterexamples to this, a bigness One of the best levels in Silent Hill 2- levels of all time- is the Historical Society. A museum located off the main road, the first almost normal, at least by Silent Hill standards. Photographs cover the walls of the entryway, of course your old pyramid headed friend. It is punishingly dark and a sort of foghorn you walk through this hole smashed in a wall Beyond the hole are stairs that go down, and It is minutes of walking into the black. The foghorn gets more frequent. James' footfalls repeat endlessly. And then, suddenly, you reach the bottom. In typical fashion, there's not even a big Mario's run up the stairs is accompanied a sort of musical illusion in which a series overlapping them an octave apart. The effect is bizarre, to say the least. Click around on a ten minute loop of the track to it continuously and you'll swear the But the tone can descend as well. As Gareth Damian Martin notes in their seminal Hill 2's descent functions in much the same "If you listen to a descending Shepard tone slowly dragged down, almost compressed, is It's that downward movement, the slow decay How far can it continue? You ask yourself, how much deeper? But the tone is steady, its slow descent both Following the staircase, James falls further down pits with nothing but dark at the bottom. Silent Hill relishes in the impossibility. After falling miles into the ground, you eventually The spatial absurdity is the point, rapidly But each pit James jumps into is accompanied that- while necessary- remove us just In those jumps, a reminder of Silent Hill's constantly being built around us instead of The staircase is different. There is no load, no movie, to separate us And, as you might have guessed from this video's It's all there. Every step rendered in real geometry, at the I worked with streamer Brossentia to capture footage is more what you'd expect; half-built 2D planes to portray distance. But the staircase...is just there. "This thing is ridiculous," he said, "Nothing And I can't get this staircase out of my is just as nightmarish as the in-game perspective. There is no illusion, no Shepard scale. James, in this moment, is walking into the game allows. Several iconic game moments center around environment, the ~liminal space~ if you will, a single object. The ladder after The End in Metal Gear Solid Bloodborne, the climb up the stairs of the down into the Siofra River Well in Elden Ring. Some of these are "all there" as with multiple different chunks, all are cool and But when I think about enormous transitory energy of Silent Hill. Years ago, I talked about the indie game NaissanceE, an endless brutalist nowhere-scape. My first encounter with the game was in the by Gareth Damian Martin). The game's developer said in that magazine and thus no security. This speaks to how I first experienced the but on a recent revisit, I took this no-invisible-walls Enabling flying in the console commands certainly break the world nearly as much as you might It just keeps...going. This mechanical chasm in the architecture is ever able to normally see. In this endless row of identical blocks, you This dark, electrical canyon has details a But like Silent Hill 2, it's the big staircase Towards the end of the game, you emerge from these white stairs, going up instead of down So you start going up. And keep going up, or at least that's what that you can barely see the step in front even longer than the historical society, so then you're at the top. Like Silent Hill, the space defies all expectations; on top of the mechanical expanse but somehow landing you in a place that feels lower than The stairs are nonsense, they're impossible, Enabling a wireframe outline allows us to display the true scale because the stairs Like Silent Hill 2's descent, there's in fact the construction is even more impressive I've found this kind of thing more frequently a game, the more often it needs to be absolutely hardware power into its intended visuals. In God of War 2, by making everything you see could receive that little extra oomph. But smaller independent titles, either because they're not subject to the same terms of stuff. Sometimes, it feels like they're nothing Sometimes that's the whole point. The game Babbdi, released for free late last the extra stuff. The objectives of Babbdi are as straightforward tickets are sold out so get one from your The appeal is instead the setting, this cold and more vertical than the stated goals of Babbdi- the name of the city as well as where every balcony can be clambered over you might find people having a trashfire-jukebox Or you might not! One of the strangely appealing things about to find, your curiosity can also take you massive reservoir the city sits on is completely there's nothing to keep you out of it either. Eventually I found a pickaxe that allowed that, the intrinsic pleasure of finding that enough work I can stand upon the tallest spire. Because Babbdi so effectively communicates is there, I never even paused to wonder if Like its entire, run-down vibe, the environment there will be no artificial impediment to It is not massive in the way many game cityscapes But Babbdi feels big because its utilitarian there, nothing is a hollow facade, nothing of civilization. Maybe the best way I can put it is the objectives of the environment itself. This city doesn't seem built for the player It was built, existed, and then some time The language I've been using in this video I know that. The verbiage of "real" or fake, "illusion" suited to video games. A computer is making me think there's a thing is an unbelievably complicated illusion, think about it. There is no staircase, there is no Babbdi, wilderness. For the purposes of this video, I've made The Historical Society's stairs are real It goes back to what I said at the beginning- registers as big. And in using this language so loosely, I think for the last game I want to talk about. Because the thing about Anor Londo, the shining all an illusion. In lore, in the game's reality, what we The dazzling sunlight vanishes when questioned, And it goes further, because under that illusion throne room. A massive statue blocks the way, only to fade ring. When it disappears, it reveals- what else- But the stairs aren't the notable part here. Beyond the door at the bottom lies Dark Sun purely for visual splendor. It is a fight based on illusion; Gwyndolin back of the hallway into the infinite, the they vanish into the horizon. The fight is one of the rare instances where surreal, and accordingly, one of its most Gwyndolin only has a few attacks, and no real Instead, every time you get close, the boss in a few strikes before running again down After Gwyndolin falls, the hall returns to revealed to be just a few dozen yards away. On first blush, I assumed this hall was more After all, that's what the imagery basically You're trapped in an endless illusion, run But that's not true. Going out of bounds during the cutscene reveals It's a combination of clever framing and replaced with a wile coyote-style false ending, the game just spawned in. And this isn't just for looks. You can, if you are both stubborn and focused the end of this passage. You can chase Gwyndolin until both of you the way at the end (at which point the boss There is a canon ending to this fight in which it falls apart, and then you just stand swinging where you started. This is what's so fascinating about games, real vs fake I've tried to build around Because we know it's an illusion, in the look at it! There it is, hundreds upon hundreds of statues as anything else in the game! Gwyndolin faked the space; Dark Souls did The other day, I booted up Fuel, I told my road from 2009, and I just started driving. It is an inherently silly thing to do; burn without so much as a fake objective to give But as false night passed into false day into with the "special effect" of hundreds of an entire world built temporarily for a falls, explosions, captured once to be replayed As I drove through the artificial walls of from actual satellite data, I reflected on and true at the same time, an artistic representation abstracts. There is no aesthetic failing in illusion- on its emotional communication, no matter But still; knowing that when I walk down those exists before me sends a wonderful little Knowing that there are no hollow buildings Every game fakes its space, in one way or But I will always love stepping outside the be that there's simply no trick at all. Okay this wasn't an intentional connection in a real space! For the very first time! Last month I was lucky enough to speak to Library in a talk I loosely titled "A Beginner's Am I bragging a little? Sure, but I am also excited to tell you that Nebula! Both the scripted part of it and the 40-plus thoughtful and interesting questions from Nebula sponsored this video, and Nebula has this year- from cooking videos to whole of this live talk. It's a healthier, more sustainable streaming It's also, here's the thing you might Follow my link in the description to get a me, and countless hours of other creators for just over 2 bucks a month. Doing a talk at a local library was a very it was, you know, local, left a lot of people Now you too can see me walk through how I'd jokes about Animorphs, and answer all sorts you can't see them in the video, but they're I wasn't just giving my talk in an empty You're gonna have to trust me on this one. Anyway, Nebula! Watch my talk, watch a whole heap of other for just over two bucks a month. And then go support your own local library!