Andrew Huberman: [OPENING THEME MUSIC] Welcome to the Huberman Lab podcast, science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor at Stanford School of Medicine. My guest today is Chris Voss. Chris Voss spent more than two decades Bureau of Investigation, where he was of the Joint Terrorist Task Force. Chris is also the author of a &quot;Never Split the Difference.&quot; In addition, he has taught courses in at the University of Southern California. As a world expert in all forms of about how to hold hard conversations outcomes, or perhaps where we don't He talks about this in the context of including romantic relationships, but And he talks about how we should of negotiations so that we can all Indeed, during today's episode, you will just other people's emotions, but your whether or not you are processing the and, equally important, whether or not you are in a discussion of any kind, In addition, we discuss the role of the context of difficult conversations, because in the real-world context, just within a single conversation, but even several weeks, months, or years. Chris also teaches us about deception, is lying by asking particular types of both breadth and depth of expertise gleaned during his more than two-decade generosity in sharing that information. By the end of today's episode, you of what the negotiation process is carry out those negotiations so that Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is, however, part of my zero-cost-to-consumer information tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, I'd like to Our first sponsor is Plunge. Plunge makes what I believe is the most plunge for deliberate cold exposure. I've talked numerous times on this of deliberate cold exposure. Deliberate cold exposure, especially to the neck in water, can be used endpoints related to mental health, Plunge uses a powerful cooling you access to deliberate cold exposure I've been using a plunge I can tell you that it makes deliberate cold exposure at home. It doesn't require much cleaning. In fact, it's very easy to You don't want bacteria and other Basically, everything about the Plunge myself, can get their deliberate cold If you're interested in getting spelled plunge.com/huberman and Again, that's Today's episode is also ROKA makes eyeglasses and sunglasses I've spent a lifetime working on the tell you that your visual system has challenges in order for you to be able ROKA understands the biology of the eyeglasses and sunglasses so that Originally, their glasses were designed and cycling and for sport, and indeed, They won't slip off your They're extremely lightweight. But I should mention that ROKA some of the aesthetics more typically like those cyborg-style glasses. But they also have a number of styles wearing out to dinner or to work. I wear readers at night or when I the day if I happen to be driving it's just overwhelmingly bright. I do not wear sunglasses when I to set my circadian rhythm, and If you'd like to try ROKA eyeglasses ROKA, roka.com, and enter the code order again, that's ROKA, roka.com. And enter the code HUBERMAN at checkout. And now for my conversation Chris Voss, welcome. Chris Voss: Andrew. Pleasure, man. Andrew Huberman: I've been wanting You are quite what we call in is a true sample size of one. I realize that, yes, you are, because from your time in the FBI, but you and knowledge of how to communicate can glean useful information from it. You are also the guy that I text when I've run myself into a jam or And I won't reveal details, but you And fortunately, the last couple of times So thank you. Chris Voss: Always happy to help, man. Andrew Huberman: Thank you. Well, I have a lot of questions today, about is negotiations take many forms, but broad categories, that will be useful. But before we do that, I want to know you go into a negotiation and whether I realize you've been in this profession reflexive to you at some point. But all of us at some point are business negotiations, Is there a process of getting one's mind from more listening and less talking? Are there any tools that you use on to keep in mind as we extend into the and ways to approach those negotiations? Chris Voss: There can be a couple of to figure out what's really going on get an approach where I'm most likely So there's always more than meets to but the real issue is there's always a So first of all, my first thing is I want at all or whether or not it's a bad deal. And then I'm going to walk away to be a complete waste of time. It's not a sin to not get the deal. That's a sin to take a long time to take a long time to get a bad deal. So I want to know. I'm going to try to figure out real cutthroat on the other side of the table? Is it somebody I could trust? I'm leaning a little more inclined now, as long as I don't give in. So I want to diagnose early Now, if I'm curious, if I'm actually mindset is if I'm in a great mood, a couple of really huge personal I was just trying to be playful. I mean, I was in a great And great negotiation is not exciting. It's astonishing. We're in conversations right now And so I was telling the producers, Housewives&quot; to make this show properly. There ain't going to be any screaming. It's not going to be &quot;Bar Rescue,&quot; We're not going to be &quot;Hell's Kitchen,&quot; It's never going to be exciting, You'll get outcomes where place like, what in the world? How did that just happen? And so I lose a suitcase in an airport lost luggage place and I'm in a great mood and I'm going to get a good night's sleep. And even though it's late And I get ready to walk into the people are battered children. They know that you expect them to luggage is going to be there. So for whatever reason, and that's what young lady says, how can I help you? Well, first of all, how you could help me There's only one reason I'm in here. So that's kind of a silly question. And I go, I need you to wave a magic wand. And she just laughs and she looks at me. She ends up walking me Climbing up on the carousel, The luggage comes out of, and I guarantee And she sticks her head in, she looks seen any of these people leave the office, And she says, wait here. And she disappears into the bowels a superhighway down there, right? Like, God knows what it looks And pretty soon, the carousel And another bag pops out. This other poor schmuck is sitting never seen anybody do this, ever. Normally they say, here's a number. We'll call you in 24 hours. It might show up at your house. And I look around at the ... there's And I say, please tell I got to go. Because she doesn't come back out And on my way out, she comes out the &quot;how's that for waving a magic wand?&quot; And that was the magic phrase. And I never would have said it to And I've got a couple of others, like, with people almost at my expense. It's shocking. Astonishing what you can get people Andrew Huberman: So interesting. I wonder what it tapped into. But it sounds like it might have tapped asking me for a magic wand kind of said it directly, and that would be because normally they're restricted I love that. On the opposite side of that spectrum, jet lagged, angry, I can think trying to keep their egos in check. They want to be right. Their breakups, negotiations. There's not necessarily romantic breakups professional breakups, the dissolution Do you ever have to check yourself, like, than not being calm for most all things. Do you have a process of doing that? You seem like a pretty steady guy. I've never seen you. Chris Voss: Overall, I'm pretty steady. Well, the late-night FM DJ voice phrase, but kind of famous for to So if I get bent out of shape and into that voice with the intention the hostage negotiator's voice. But it'll calm me down, too. Like intentionally going to that voice which I'm convinced make me dumber capacity to process information. Got reasons for that? Layman's reasons? No. Scientific, academically rigorous Andrew Huberman: Well, after you're that will perhaps be astonishing to behind that late-night FM DJ voice having Chris Voss: Yeah, and I'll do Now, if I can make the shift. The hard part is a shift into a positive I can only make it from a calm voice. I also think the emotions are kind I don't think you can go from sadness to I think there's something to getting And I think if you're angry, But if I can get out of anger and go to Like, the reality is, this is a negotiation with a counterpart that And I remember saying to myself, I mean, they wouldn't be trying to if we didn't have a product that was So I'm actually lucky to So if I can make that next shift The hard part is making those shifts. Andrew Huberman: I'm going to recently about sound and emotion. I'm researching an episode Fascinating topic. Believe it or not, there's a lot this property where, of course, there to different frequencies of sound, frequency squeals and that sort of thing. Okay, that's pretty straightforward, respond to different colors or But what I learned and I confirmed auditory neuroscientist and neurosurgeon. His name is Eddie Chang, who was a Is that low frequency sounds that late-night FM DJ voice, are No surprise there. But the frequency that those In other words, when you speak in your low and starts firing in a low frequency tone. In other words, it entrains to your actually like you're essentially in the low keys of their mind. Now, when you go up to the high follow that high frequency. So there's something special about low the emotional tone of the people This is wild, right. Of course, the content of But anyway, there's real neuroscience to with and that you employed for your work. Chris Voss: Well, then also, the side is not making a choice. It's an involuntary reaction. Andrew Huberman: That's right. This is not something one can override, Right. If they're hearing that, their state of low frequency oscillation, That's a real thing. And were you to have a high, not have been the negotiator. You would. Maybe there'd be another tactic there. I mean, I think back to the, I guess it Where weren't they trying to squeeze by playing like, Milli Vanilli at Is that tactic actually used? Chris Voss: So that was Panama when Andrew Huberman: I'm only Chris Voss: I got the trivia I was fascinating, useless information I tried that at Panama and for were playing music and sounds. And then also among the many stupid late at night, they tried that in the things that the hostage negotiators got overruled by on-site command. Among the many stupid things that were It was stupid. It's counterproductive. Hostage negotiators Andrew Huberman: So for those Waco is Branch Davidians, Chris Voss: Yeah. There was a Netflix series That's fair. About how it went down. Andrew Huberman: Yeah. He eventually set the building ablaze, Chris Voss: People inside Andrew Huberman: Yeah. Including a lot of children Chris Voss: There are some FBI agents Andrew Huberman: Like to talk about Oftentimes, I think because you're a task force, this kind of thing, we tend Right. Get the hostages away, and Breakups, business deals that have What about negotiations Let's say that two people want to they each see to be their best Two friends taking a Who's going to pay for what? Who's going to pay up front? Are people going to pay each other back? Or a romantic relationship? Two people are considering fusing finances What sorts of questions should prior to those negotiations? In particular, is it very important want going into a negotiation? Or. I can recall many times when I've I wanted a certain set of feelings specific about, I want this salary. I want to live in a west-facing An exploration of potentials, I think So how should people think about like, where we're not talking about go through, it might hurt, it might be talk about how to get to a win-win. Chris Voss: Yeah, well, there's a First of all, the phrase win-win, because I mean, in point of fact, it only be emotional win-win. Now, the phraseology win-win. I know that if someone opens a negotiation look, I want to do a win-win deal with someone who's trying to pick my pocket. So if you use that phrase in the know where you're coming from. You're trying to get me to drop my guards. You win, I lose. This came up on an Instagram post I put out for the person who says win-win. Now, I didn't say win-win is bad. I said, watch out for Also, you got to be cautious. If you're like, some of the win-win to just get slaughtered by the person and looking to pick their pocket. Like, if I feel win-win in my heart, If I don't watch it, I'm And then I find myself So there's a lot behind the win-win have a complete understanding of. In point of fact, both sides And isn't that the definition of win-win? Well, kind of, sort of, but more than really what they got. So in a benevolent negotiation among Where are we going on vacation? What route are we going to take? People really just want to be which operationally seems to be. I don't understand how it's Makes all the difference in the world. And what's the best way for Well, I'm going to start out by telling you, but describing to you what my best it's really calibrating me actually And the only way I can find out what increase you telling me if I start taking immediately, right away, immediately I'm wrong, you're going to correct me. Correction is a satisfying thing to do. And you're going to be much more me than if I'm asking you, and So there's all these great getting you to correct me. So I'm going to start out by saying, Here's how I think Here's what I think you're wanting out of probably are based on your perspective. And that's going to accelerate Like it's ridiculous how much And then it becomes both an information simultaneously instead of separately, even though it seems more indirect. So if we're getting ready to, let's say to San Francisco from here, and I'm is you want to take the most direct And you're probably going to say to, Coast highway because this beautiful going to be a waste of time if we got to jump off it at some point. But I really want to see the scenery, you want and you're going to come And then maybe I'm thinking time beautiful it is to roll up the coast. And so when you throw that out, I'll ride, and we might not get another shot. Who knows what's going to know now rather run up the Pacific Coast highway And that's how we get to, we maybe a better idea than what I Andrew Huberman: I love that because what Chris Voss: Yes. Andrew Huberman: It's the Many people don't know this, but they but to start with a question like how And then you say a hypothesis and figure out if they're right or wrong. And that takes you through a set of get at what you hope is some core there as well and you get a consensus. So I love the idea of hypothesis testing. In fact, when you said take the most in Los Angeles to San Francisco, The 5 is faster. So I immediately think, but I like 101. First of all, there are a couple of really way that I used to stop with my bulldog. And yet also you get to see the two hours completely worth it. And so you're exactly right in that doesn't necessarily mean presuming It sounds like you'd be equally okay with what you're trying to do is just learn. And in learning, set I love that. Chris Voss: A couple of things. First of all, when you talk about involved in a company, he's out on say, hypothesis test your hypothesis. He always used that term. And then even now, if we were talking hot dog and hamburger places, I'd be Yeah, I want to check those places out. So that's how you discover Andrew Huberman: I love it. And also, I'm sure people are noting approaching any kind of negotiation. What do you think it is about those of authenticity or trustworthiness? Because you could imagine that somebody, let's do some collaborative thing for going to be a win-win for both of us. Now, I know to never say that that somebody really means that. But for you, it sounds like it's a flag Chris Voss: It correlates really definitely trying to cut your throat. And I've had them admit Andrew Huberman: Amazing. Chris Voss: I've experienced it. If somebody throws win-win out right, I think I know where this And they'll say, Yeah, this great And we're going to put you in a room there's going to be all this opportunity speak, and we don't have a budget. Andrew Huberman: Well, I've The world will just work out going to work out in my favor. Chris Voss: Right, exactly right. Andrew Huberman: I've been on the Fascinating. Conversely, what sorts of openers do and benevolent discovery of a topic? Chris Voss: Well, what I'm saying people I want to do business with. If they figured out something that they done it and they've just offered it, like They found a way to drop They didn't approach They approached me with Like a friend of mine, Joe Polish, Joe, he says, life gives to the giver. Joe did a bunch of favors for me before help me out and get my book sold, and he emphasized my book on his podcast And I finally paid the fee to join There's not much Joe could ask me much for me that he gets a blanket. Pretty much, yes, right away. What do you want? What do you need? Because he's just generous. And the generosity approach universally, people that lead by generosity. And so if you start out, if you give Amazon, no strings attached or anything somebody who wants to establish a Andrew Huberman: When I first opened technician at the time who had been And there's this culture in science of and not giving them back or breaking them. These can be little things, like But as a student or postdoc, these like a really nice pair of forceps. It's like a great thing. You drop them once, they're It's like you have to Surgical tools have to These are very fine instruments, all the time and borrow stuff from And I was like, what are you doing? But anytime I went to go borrow anything from anybody else, because Right now, everybody owes us everything. And I was like, you're running up our They come back with the And he said, just trust me, And I don't recall ever, quote But he was exactly right when I We had given away so much and we had that when you leave a place, typically And all we got was sorry to Had it been me, I would have been ask for things, we give things. It's kind of a neighborhood. I grew up in a neighborhood where you'd Remember those days? I don't know if people do that any longer, you're describing, that when you just do sure, you sort of have a history where But there's also just something good and also not asking for so much and So I love that and I love providing good When the airline, we don't do this But anytime I get help on the help, I'll say, how can I help? And they'll say, oh, it would mean to my business just saying I did a And I actually really enjoy doing that. So I love the points you're making As many of you know, I've been taking that they're sponsoring the podcast. AG1 is a vitamin-mineral-probiotic your foundational nutrition needs. Now, of course, I try to get enough whole food sources that include vegetables I simply can't get enough servings. But with AG1, I'm sure to get enough that I need, and it also contains Simply put, I always feel I have more focus and And it also happens to taste great. For all these reasons, whenever one supplement, what would it be? I answer AG1. If you'd like to try AG1, to claim a special offer. They will give you 5 free travel packs Again, that's drinkag1.com/huberman. Shifting slightly to the more, let's the types of negotiations where there's Chris Voss: Right. Andrew Huberman: I know you've been listeners are going to be learning Do you recall of the many negotiations one particular negotiation that out, this is really catastrophic? And would you be willing Chris Voss: I learned, you know, not everything's going to work out. And the second negotiation I had in the named Jeff Schilling, was grabbed by up walking away because we stall the bad can slow it down, you wait for something And that ended up happening in that case. And a bad guy ends up calling the after it was over to basically tell him It was nuts. Why does a bad guy call the negotiator everything and know you did a good job? Which is exactly what happened. So we roll into a case, and I hadn't had Very next case, a Burnham-Sobero case group, 13 months later ends up in two killed by friendly fire along the way. Hostages had been executed. An American had been executed and lots of people got killed all ridiculous bad things happening. And that was bad all the way through. So learned a lot from it, went back and do anything wrong that we felt based And that was why I ended up going because my reaction was, if we did wasn't enough, that means we're not And so that case taught me a lot about the side and the difference between whether The US government was The Philippine government Everybody wanted to get their pound I mean, just everything Early on, when Guillermo Sobero it was a national holiday in the history of killing people on national Philippines, and we had no idea that And we showed up at Philippine in Manila, and it was closed. Now I got an ongoing hostage case with And we show up at the gates, and like, what the hell's going on here? Well, it's a national holiday. Nobody's working today. I'm like, first of all, Secondly, I don't think the bad guys holiday and nobody's working. Our negotiator is nowhere to be found. We got a guy there that the Philippine National Police, was have him under complete control. So they give us a guy that will not tell So he's having conversations with hearing about him secondhand. He didn't show up that day. And, of course, that day, the bad guys and give it as a gift to the country of And they go, oh, by the way, And Guillermo Sobero ended Because of all the warring factions each other what the hell's going on. So I had assumed at that point in time need to know, we didn't need to ask. And after that, I got like, that I don't need to know. If it's a holiday, it's coming up, and So, really learned a lot about and also the lack of collaboration Just because we're a mess doesn't mean guys didn't have their act together. And ultimately the hostages, one come out, because internally, they So learned a lot about what really are in teams, and your team has the other team does not either. So what can you do as a Really learned a lot I had cases subsequent to that killing people on a regular basis. But we saw those coming and we the train from smashing into us. You see a train coming down the tracks, and you do the best you can Andrew Huberman: I've heard it captive that they either want life, or some combination of those. Chris Voss: Yeah, that's Yeah, that's very true. Andrew Huberman: And as the negotiator important to identify early on which of they're after, like how serious they are? Are they willing to Will they go for any amount of money to figure out their threshold. Right. Because the person is on Right. They're gambling their freedom, whoever their reputation matters to. Is it important to get into the mindset of using the hypothesis-generating method? And if so, could you give an example of Chris Voss: Yeah, the Once you sort of lose your illusions out, then the patterns of behavior And just because you don't like the the patterns, and knowing what they are And Al-Qaeda in 2004-ish time frame deadline, and we had to recognize that. So there becomes a pattern specificity in what they say. And this is all human nature. Like, if you're in a business negotiation something horrible here, we're going And if they say, look, if we deadline, if we don't get these time, that's pretty specific. It's specificity. You're looking for it. I learned to look for it We're working a case again in say if we don't get a ransom for time is kidnapped, you tell his And that's a euphemism for losing a child. And early on, when that threat table, everybody's like, oh, my This is really bad. We got to make sure the I'm like, no. They didn't say when They didn't say how it They didn't say who was going to do it. The basic specificity of Like, they left themselves an We never said we were going to do it. We never said when it was going to happen. We never said which child. They're just trying to scare you. They're throwing out something vague. I said, we got plenty of We got to push this all the way Now, later on in that case, when and it was screwed up by God knows the phone and they said, if we don't And I said, all right, And these guys sound like they mean it. And so we're going to have to make or that's the end of this kid. And at that point in time, we a position to allow or disallow. We were in a position to offer thoughts. And our thoughts were, they mean it now, likely something bad's going to happen. And now that they're this serious, what we used to refer to as a double dip. Do they take the money and they come back That wasn't the ransom. That was just a down payment. You got to make sure you don't get double you got to give them your honest opinion to let the hostage go if you pay now. And our thoughts were, Your son's coming out. And he did. Andrew Huberman: The double dip is a lower level, meaning more minor level. People sometimes get shaken down online, There are people everywhere link,&quot; you'll get a text message. We've identified that your Verify you. Click on the link, takes you someplace password, and boom, it's gone. And then they try and sell it back to because it's not traceable. Chris Voss: By the way those negotiations Andrew Huberman: Well, I'm hoping going to save some people the trouble I've known people who've had these are some smart people. But what's interesting is that where somebody gets to the point going to give them what they want. And I remember in this one particular them the money, because then they're There's no guarantee that they're And why would they? If you think about it, why would they? The money funnels in and they just So how do you gain confidence that you Chris Voss: Well, first of all, I got to out the threat, or if they're in any sort For lack of a better And there are a lot of people that really have the ability to scam you. So you got to find out, Do they have access to your account? Do they have your data? They have your money. Do they have it in a position or are they have that position of influence on you? There are a lot of the bad guys out dialing for dollars, if you will. And if they don't scam you when they find somebody else that'll give in. So there's a bit of authenticity, And the same rule applies The other side is going to give gotten everything they can. Kidnappers. I'd be asked by an ambassador, when's this going to be over? When the bad guys feel like they've gotten did, but when they felt like they did. So our job is just make So how hard do you make it? Innocently on the other side? Everybody wants to feel like they got So if you let them feel like they're in them innocent how and what questions, answer, then you're going to get to a solid outcome where you don't get happy that it's over because they felt It could be your data, could be your The other side is going to be feel like they've worked for it. And business negotiations, you're selling car, and the guy walks up to you and What's your reaction? I should have asked for more. Maybe I won't sell my car. Every human interaction, the that they earned what they got. And so the idea of empathy and just to make them feel that sooner. Andrew Huberman: We're going to such a big and important topic. But I've heard it said before that also somebody you know, places a real now, or I need you to do something physical violence, but that any request flag, that it's likely to be a scam. Very seldom do you need to click Right? Right? But that's one way in which people comes in by phone or by email Somebody says, you need to do this going to happen, capture people's mistake, and then they're left reeling. Because that request for something hits a fundamental nerve in us. Chris Voss: To want to Andrew Huberman: Right. So is that a good rule of thumb Chris Voss: I think that's I mean, a friend of mine, somebody not that long ago, and I was Sound like, look, man, I Look, I need some money from you now. It was a friend, a friend's number. And I remember when I first saw it, was really busy, and I felt bad that And then I didn't hear from him again. And so I thought, well, whatever So a couple of weeks later, I get the You got to get back to me right now. So I decide if it's really my buddy, I got to make sure it's really my buddy. I said, hey, man, you didn't raise this Because I'd seen him in Vegas recently. And he's, you know, I was busy. I couldn't bring it up. And so I'm thinking, like, all right, so We had breakfast together in Vegas. So then I shoot back, I said, like, That was such a crazy night, and So that night when we were I'm happy to help. Now, it wasn't a crazy night. It was breakfast, and I didn't owe money. And his next response was like, You can make that up to me with this. So I'm like, all right, cool. So now I start making stuff up. And I said, and when we were with those and the pony, I'll never get over that. And so now the guy's, what And I said, by the way. And then I started throwing in some and the guy got insulted and called And then I sent all those text messages about his mother, and he texted me back. He's got a great sense of humor. He says, by the way, my mom Andrew Huberman: Oh, man. Chris Voss: But I started it If it was my friend, I would And I need to throw something at it's him and that I'm there for him. But I'm also going to put a little doesn't catch, I know it's a con, and Andrew Huberman: Incredible this and they might think, oh, But like I said, I had known family the mistake, they take the bait now they're getting the shakedown. Actually, a good friend of mine said Her parents are probably Someone had called their house this woman, had been kidnapped and Chris Voss: Right. Andrew Huberman: And that if kill her or harm her in some way. So they started sending money and And you can see what a bind Right. They obviously don't want to get obviously are willing to do whatever Turns out it was total scam, right. Because eventually there was communication daughter was perfectly okay and never So those kinds of scams Chris Voss: I've had that Andrew Huberman: Yeah. So the sense of urgency should Chris Voss: That's a great point. Yeah, absolutely. And look, even if they've got your loved they want, are they going to let them go? Which is actually a legitimate question, One of the things we learned in hostage negotiation, there are legitimate You're not being disrespectful, There are fair to use the F bomb. Fair, legitimate questions that you which is basically, if I comply, way that you're articulating it? Anything that adds communication into it, out what the ultimate outcome looks like. Even in kidnappings, how do you know that That's a legitimate question. Andrew Huberman: There are examples Instagram account hacked, your bank your child kidnapped, for instance. There's a whole practice within the legal or not somebody is going to give up Actually, a lawyer friend of mine He said, in his words, first person, The operative word being scare people. Chris Voss: And that's being honest. Andrew Huberman: Yeah, He scares people for money And he understands how other And he works both sides in plaintiff But it made me realize that a lot The lawsuit slid across the table. It's the, okay, here's what Here are all the statutes that potentially probe of what somebody's finances are And do they have liability insurance? Do they have an umbrella policy? All the sorts of things that are shakedown, but it's a probing as to Chris Voss: Diagnosing the Andrew Huberman: You're right. And so that happens really often. I can give a specific example at a dog park, where their dog charged at somebody ... dog park. People are standing around and the person But rather than sue the owner of the dog, set of documents that say, I was injured, if you don't settle up for X number of usually an exorbitant amount above that. And then there's this question out, like, is it puffery? Chris Voss: Right? Andrew Huberman: Are they saying, Is there any basis for that? And good lawyers will say, that's puffery. They're trying to scare you with see that number and go, oh, my You know what? I don't even know if they were injured. If they were, that's terrible. I'd want that taken care of. If my dog's responsible, But what do they need in And that happens millions of times a portion of those probably happen here the way the legal system is arranged. So this is not somebody. It could be somebody manipulating the law. It could also be somebody who's being of being injured by somebody else's dog. So under those conditions, I mean, it You want to know how serious they are. Do they have a case, so to speak? That's the work of the lawyers. But in assessing how serious You called it the F word. I like that. I'll never forget that just money do you think you deserve? Or would that be a good example Or is it, how likely are you to walk Because I could imagine there's all dishonest about answering those questions. Chris Voss: Well, and then how is a really good question. Not necessarily what the answer You're going to get how quickly not they stop and think about it. How and what questions typically are And the answer is secondary because the refer to as deep thinking, slow thinking. Daniel Kahneman, behavioral Slow thinking is in-depth thinking. You ask a how or what question to make their reaction to how they think about it. And do they actually think about it, That gives you a clearer picture where the outcome is going to go. How much money do you think that Ten million. All right, so this is, I got a Or they say, all right, if they stop thoughtful answer, that's a completely You're asking a question to diagnose how And sometimes if it's a cutthroat on peppering them with how and what That's passive aggression. If I got a cutthroat aggressor on into passive aggressive behavior to One of my hostage negotiation heroes, Domenico Picco, not Johnny like Gianni Domenico got all the Western '80s, wrote a book called &quot;Man person, face-to-face with Hezbollah. The only guy that ever did And in his book he wrote, one of learning how to exhaust the other side. And when you've got a really dangerous table, you don't go nose to nose. You don't argue, you're not combative. You wear them out, exhaust them. And if you got somebody really side, start peppering them with how think about the answer, it tires them it's deferential, and it really works. Andrew Huberman: So if the person on negotiation is aggressive, the goal them, and get them to just either That's a loophole. Chris Voss: Yeah, if I have to make the Andrew Huberman: I'd like to take our sponsor, InsideTracker. InsideTracker is a personalized data from your blood and DNA to help help you meet your health goals. I'm a big believer in getting regular that many of the factors that impact your be analyzed from a quality blood test. However, with a lot of blood tests about blood lipids, about hormones what to do with that information. With InsideTracker, they have a easy to understand your data, that is, those hormone levels, etc., mean, and other protocols to adjust those numbers to for your immediate and long-term health. Right now, InsideTracker is conducting This giveaway includes a full year of with a registered dietitian, and To learn more about InsideTracker and to fitnessfuelslongevity.com to enter. That's fitnessfuelslongevity.com to enter. I'm interested in drilling a little bit them down and the passive aggressive And I want to highlight for people that manipulation to extract something we're We're talking about a bad actor to defang that bad actor. What does that process of wearing Could you give us a couple of actor, we could play this game. I won't be very good at this. And I am saying, look, I want X you're not going to get what you want, Is that simple? And a stonewall kind of approach. What is the approach that you Chris Voss: Well, they're going to be And they're going to be legitimate you're going to follow through? What does that look like? Like if I do what you want, how do I Andrew Huberman: So get them Okay, so if you were to. Well, if you deliver by that date, I'm Like, if they're just getting person is just, again, this kind Chris Voss: Yeah, well, and so the time, vision drives decision. So if you're really going to comply, know you're going to follow through? I'm not talking about the threat. I'm not trying to get you I'm trying to get you to clarify So I need to know based on your reaction If I comply, you will already have Vision drives decision. You've thought it through in advance. What does letting the hostages go of ever releasing the hostage? If I follow through, then you're question and you're probably going to And so then now I know, like, all If I give in, you're not going to Then I'm going to ask, well, how am I any plans for complying and if you're about what compliance looks like? There was a kidnapping that my unit Venezuela, where they weren't entirely to ... the FARC, I think, had the hostage. They agreed on an exchange That was some distance from idea the hostage was being held. So they figured they're not the way to this river crossing if It's just too much effort. And then it was one of the few times a simultaneous exchange, but they're the river before the hostage was let go. So if we agree to this, all right, all the way to this river crossing And if it's a long way to drag do they want to drag them back? Like, even if they're ambivalent, gone through all the effort to get hostage is there, we've now just They're going to go ahead and the neck to take them back. This is all human nature How do you get them to engage in actions that actually mean something to them? When I was working kidnappings, the family get the bad guys to say at actually get a verbal promise to let we've been talking to them long enough. At this point in time, we got a pretty when they're lying and what they sound If somebody tells the truth, truth the same way every time. If they tell the truth, you talk line on do they ever tell the truth? And if they do, what does it sound like? People lie 20 ways. They tell the truth one way. So we've been coaching in negotiations that we know what they sound So when they ask at the very end, if It's not that they answered, but be the last thing to seal the deal. How do you continually stack the odds Andrew Huberman: Do you have a bodily, The reason I ask is, years ago, I had the turned out to be a generally good person. But I sensed early on that I couldn't relax around them. I just couldn't relax around them. And I could not tell you why, but identify the neuroanatomy of it. You might say it was the vagus nerve or I can't point to one pathway in the body. There was something about my autonomic up when I was around them, like, something And I kid you not, five years later, of lies that all ratcheted together in the total context of things. But I remember thinking at that moment, And for all my knowledge of neuroscience, it was in my biology, but it had It wasn't just a thought like, that like I'm getting the runaround. It was a physical sensation. Are you familiar with that experience? Chris Voss: Yeah. Well, it's a little bit what you discovering the science behind the gut. And what we are actually teaching my the difference between your gut and your fear centers, and know which one is which. And listen to your gut. Your gut is ridiculously accurate. Now, where does that One of your podcasts We were talking about The smells like. I never thought of that. Of course. What was the term for the Andrew Huberman: Pheromones. Chris Voss: Pheromones going And that's why some of the would say, I can just smell it. I can smell it. So what all is feeding your gut, science hasn't yet discovered? You can't make me believe, I will never surface of our skin, that there's energy I mean, our gut is being fed by all these that we have yet to be made aware of. The tone of voice doesn't The head tilt. You've got a supercomputer in your brain. Your gut is incredible if you listen And as soon as you start listening to your but you got a bad feeling in your gut. And later on, then you saw it all picking up these cues, your brain presence, there's got to be an odor. Somebody gives off when they're You didn't know that that was have consciously smelled it, So long answer to I'm a very I think there's science that we know and gut is just ridiculously accurate if we Andrew Huberman: I completely agree that neuroscience can't yet explain. The field of neuroscience, that is, is There's basically three apex journals, publish in: Science, Nature, and Cell. And I only mention that because there was magazine about magnetoreception in humans. The idea that humans can detect magnetic Turtles can detect magnetic fields. They migrate by them, actually is that humans can't do that. And yet there are some well-controlled the orientation of a magnetic field, Not everyone can do it, but some can that cannot be predicted by anything magnetoreception in their nervous system. So there are capabilities of the nervous for which we don't have a lot of evidence, that these things are really happening. The other example, which you might bit more, a little less esoteric. But there was a beautiful paper journals a couple of years ago showing story, the distance between their Now, it doesn't mean that their if you look at the distance between to the same rhythm, the same song. And get this, they're in The experiments are being done And yet, if I were to line up just the they would line up like a set of columns. Chris Voss: Wow. Andrew Huberman: For dozens of So clearly there's a passage of energy goes into our nervous system at a level Here's the last thing I'll say about this. We have a series on mental health coming health, by, I think, to be among the very Paul Conti, and he said, you forebrain is the supercomputer. Chris Voss: Right. Andrew Huberman: He said, no, the That's where the real knowledge That's the iceberg below the heavy lifting has taken place. And that people who learn to tap into information in very meaningful ways. And I think that's what you're describing. Chris Voss: He's been on Andrew Huberman: He has, to And he was on Lex The series that we're doing with It's really about the I think you'll find this series really practical questions that one can ask kind of work the process of psychiatry. We're excited to release that series that's been put out there into the public. But I was so pleasantly surprised the forebrain is the supercomputer. It's what drove our evolution. He's like, no, it's the subconscious. That's where our real wisdom resides. And the forebrain is just Chris Voss: How we can convince Right? Andrew Huberman: Yeah. I mean, I can't think of a time that my More often than not, though, I've I override it, thinking, I think I made negotiators to avoid, which is I thought, anxiety must be like me, this must be my this situation, not sleeping well, etc. And therefore, this must represent And Lord knows, as your shirt points I have many flaws. I always say I have 3000 pet to match those pet peeves, a But the point being that I They know. Chris Voss: Yeah, I would agree. Andrew Huberman: So when you're hearing somebody's voice on the When you're face to face, There's their face. And then, of course, if the text over a computer or a phone. It's a very diminished So maybe we could talk about live in those landscapes. If we're face-to-face and we're to what I want, what I'm insisting on. You're working that What are you paying attention to visually? Chris Voss: It's more, There's layman's data, the words, people's face and how are they There's a ratio out there that delivery, 55% body language. People want to argue about it all the As a rule of thumb, we But I tell people the most So I'm not going to look for, like, when do you look up into the left? I'm really just going to try to get a things are lining up, whether they're in And then I'm going to be real careful Affective cues, changes in your tone And that's one of the reasons why language, because it's completely So if I convince myself that this, it's out of context. I was in a negotiation once where I saw him kind of look off to the side And I made the mistake of not saying to at the time would have been, seems like the only completely true observation, back, something crossed their mind. Now, I read it at the moment of saying out after the fact that was wrong. They were stretched to the limit. The look of hesitation didn't mean that read it wrong, and I didn't bother to So what am I babbling about? What I'm babbling about is if we're I'm listening to your tone of voice or If I see you shift at all, I should pay affected behavior, but I need to find making an assumption as to what it meant. So, yeah, I'm going to watch, I'm going to say, sounds like there's some just crossed your mind, or even if affective move, I might say it feels That's me listening to my gut. I'll throw out an observation on just to go back over the ground Because the other thing about going to give me more information And if you say something that's thought And while I'm stopping and said, I'm missing all your cues. So all the skills that we teach, the questions, which seem like we're going Because I didn't pick up all the just more there than I can get. And so I need to go back over it a get it right, without making you feel you actually get to go back over it again. So it becomes what seems to be an me just double checking my information. So if we're face-to-face, I'm going to to say, would you please repeat that? I'm going to get you to repeat Andrew Huberman: Is the same true Chris Voss: The same thing is true. The problem with online and everything into one communication. The best analogy I can think of is if you put seven moves in your text? No, you'd only put one move in. So only try to get one Don't explain, don't throw a whole They're all almost always too long So do what you can to soften it. There's a documentary film called &quot;Tactical Empathy.&quot; Nick Nanton won 22, 23 Emmys. The filmmaker, DNA films. It was finished last year. It's not out yet. For a variety of reasons, So we screened the thing I see it. I love it. I'm not a good judge of a film about me. I'm going to love it no matter what. It's about me. But I tell Nick that This is great. Two days later, I find out. I realize there's a huge problem. I've already told him it's okay. I'm going to text him and then I'm going It's a Sunday text message. I sent him a two-line text. Is now a bad time to talk? I got something you don't want to hear. Two lines. Now. What were my other options? I could have called him. Nick and I got a great relationship. I call him. If he's in a position Doesn't matter what he's doing. He's going to answer the phone. He was in the middle of a Zoom call. If I'd have called, he'd have picked conversations would have been bad. He immediately fires back to me, I'll call you in a half an hour. He already knows he ain't going I'm prepping him for bad news. Get him on the phone, like, We got a problem. We got to get Derek on camera. Derek is a guy in my team. I'm shocked that I haven't made This is going to be We got to get Derek on film. We can't show this to anybody make a part of it immediately. He's in problem solving mode. He goes, okay, I got to get a crew I need to know when we can do it. We got another showing of the films Says, I got to get Derek on And it's going to take I said, I'll get you He goes, done. Or Derek's calendar. He says, done. It's done. We go through this whole conversation Now think of the normal negotiation. Hey, Nick, how are you? What's going on today? Are you in a good mood? Hey, how the kids doing? All this time-wasting conversation? If I had set him up with that said, are you out of your mind? We've been working on this for a year. You didn't bring this up in a year. Not only that, you already told in Vegas that you loved it. And now, a year and a half into up all these new problems. That would have been But since we got a highly collaborative text, we're done in ten minutes. Now, since Nick's a very generous says, by the way, you understand This is three weeks of editing. This is three hours of shooting I go, yeah. He goes, but I'm happy to do it. Calls him back the next day. He's got a favor to ask me. You got it. Doesn't matter what it is. Because we'd gone through what negotiation that started on text, Sunday, and we got to solve that fast. Andrew Huberman: So if I understand it a very direct and succinct way, right. He goes into it in a Whereas if you do the tour of all the Chris Voss: Yeah. Andrew Huberman: We'll keep this PG. The mud sandwich approach. They teach you that when you get no skill running a business, right? You get a laboratory, all you've suddenly you're in charge of people Most scientists, 99% of scientists, are do at the level of running a laboratory. When they start, you learn it on up having to let somebody go. And so the typical thing they teach you tell somebody something nice, then you tell them something nice on exit. Right? That's kind of the mud, This is not that. What you're talking about is You're not going to like the you're not going to like it. So that they show up with the context giving them the tour of all the things problem is really in contrast to that. And then it's like, what I love is it's direct, it's honest. You're not doing the tour of them down to the septic tank. Chris Voss: It's what I would call and being a straight shooter. A straight shooter tells you the truth. They just tell it in a Andrew Huberman: Let's talk breakups, romantic breakups. Chris Voss: Right. You breaking up with me? Andrew Huberman: No, but No, in fact, I'm enjoying this I'm learning a ton from you that, and deepen our relationship. Chris, there. You got a lot of knowledge out of me. Platonic and professional, but expansive. What is the process of And again, this could be romantic relationship, could be employer, Could be telling a whole group or an The reason I raised this as a particular both sides don't want the same thing. One side wants to continue, Chris Voss: Right. Andrew Huberman: I'll avoid the use of the me, and just ask, is there a way to have just mentioned in, as you so beautifully Where it's direct, it's honest, but it about here is feelings of rejection, I don't know anybody that likes don't like, people's egos suffer. Chris Voss: Right. Andrew Huberman: So is there maybe The question is, is there a way to news, to get their ego out of the way it, it's best for everybody involved? Chris Voss: I almost want to say no. But first, what are the caveats? Most of the time, when people are trying to save the other side, So who are you really trying to save by act like it's something that it's not. I don't know that anybody has have a sense that it was coming. The person that was getting ready to fire They know how the other person is fired has got some gut instinct Like you said, the gut's very powerful, as you can, but also as gently as you can. I was involved in a nonprofit a number and we're struggling whether or not I go to the minister of the church, named Arthur Caliandro, one of the best Phenomenal guy. And I'm struggling with. I thought firing, letting this woman Arthur was going to counsel me a way out. And he looked at me and he ... There's. There's no gentle way to And I thought, yeah, the humane to conclusion as quickly as possible? Because there's no humane way There's no humane way to Now, what are the caveats? Maybe there are first caveat. If you're going to fire somebody, Fire them on a Monday. Fire them on a Monday. They got a work week to You fire them on a Friday, they and to feel horrible, and they Caught off guard or not, on a They can start looking for a new job. No matter who you are. Fire them on a Friday. They can't start looking It's two days of misery. So, yeah, if you're going to a Monday, not on a Friday. If you got bad news to give People are ridiculously resilient to pain. If warned and then that, You're not going to It's going to be heartbreaking. You're going to hate me. Hesitate no more than 3 seconds. They got their guard up. Let them have the bad news. That's the humane way to Don't linger. Don't make them think that. How are the kids? How are you? I care about you. You're a great human being. None of the stuff at the beginning. Warn them bad news is coming Rip the Band-Aid off. The pain is not. If you try to rip the Band-Aid off. Slowly. That's excruciating. You're trying to save yourself. So if you got to terminate a relationship, you do it, the less painless it Stop trying to save yourself. Realize how human beings handle pain. If anything, human beings are opportunity to brace themselves first. Andrew Huberman: I agree. Thank you for that. There's a concept that a lot of people in saying that because I hadn't heard a lot of time in the literature And it's a term from psychology that And it's ego depletion. Yeah, it's an interesting concept, by you for a while, but I saved It turns out ego depletion is We all heard the Steve Jobs thing. He wore a black turtleneck every make that decision, so he had more I've been accused of doing the same but there's a whole other reason for But anyway, it's unimportant in is a little bit different than The idea with ego It's that the molecule dopamine But one of the things that it to goal-directed behavior that's Like, I want to accomplish this. I want to get to that. And the whole notion of ego depletion a data-substantiated observation, that or to defend their position for a period And it seems to be, at least in defending one's position takes work. Chris Voss: Right. Andrew Huberman: Earlier, you talked about And I wonder, as I just throw this concept that calls to mind any examples from person could really hold, but if I just Chris Voss: Right. Andrew Huberman: And it's different than conversation that starts at 3 in the We've all been there. I've been in those conversations. Usually they're not very pleasant. And at 3 in the morning, I've learned over the years, you clip Right. One of the worst pieces of you'd never go to sleep angry. It's like, no, actually get sleep, problem if the situation allows. That's my belief, anyway. Yeah. Trying to stay up all night trying to work So ego depletion. I have a feeling a lot of what you did their dopamine to the point where then place where they're not defending the practically about the whole situation. Does it have any kind of Chris Voss: Yeah, no, I would agree First of all, in hostage negotiation, If there's a demand and there's going is just literal definition, contained Chase Bank in Brooklyn way back when, away -- and uncontained is a kidnapping. You don't know where they are. Uncontained, unknown location. We're going to try to get our way in depletion, wearing them out, getting to give in because they're tired, going to put handcuffs on them, which they're going to go back and they're So wearing somebody out in a business because even if you come to an agreement, Did you get the agreement Because they get tired, At some point in time, they're going to recharged while you're in implementation. So they're either going to not going or at the slightest opportunity, I think ego depletion is a real business deal that's going to stick. Andrew Huberman: Because they rest and Chris Voss: Yeah, they're ego is going to be recharged. And if you got the agreement based on is going to get charged back up again. Whether it's a business deal, whether a disagreement with your significant Don't go to bed angry. And so you stay up till three you come to a resolution. Everybody gets a good They feel completely differently Andrew Huberman: Yeah, I might have Chris Voss: Saw it in a movie, right? Andrew Huberman: Yeah, saw it in a movie. A friend explained that You mentioned approaching a Chris Voss: Right? Andrew Huberman: Like, all right, let's play this like a game, because Now, we know that when we are When we're tense, everything narrows. Tunnel vision. Tunnel vision, tunnel We lose access to the full toolkit. So you obviously take really You're fit, you're in I'm sure you have your But what are some of the things that So that when the bell goes off and And the reason I ask this is because kind of a vacuum, like it's happening, But like any athlete, like any any kid, everybody has to be And we don't always get the warning. We don't get the memo that And sometimes the conversations around implies that we get the warning. But more often than not, it's a in and boom, it just hits us. And suddenly we are in negotiations and So maybe we could talk about readiness, maybe this sounds trivial to you, but whether or not you have any practices of what you've seen other people use to be of being able to show up their best self. Chris Voss: Yeah, well, for high-stakes results. I will occasionally find myself in the expect if I've been throwing out stuff on Verbal observations, what we refer like something just crossed your mind. Is a label in the middle of a negotiation, the side, how do I get ready for that? I'm on my way over here to this interview. I'm both talking to my Lyft driver Also being careful about not tapping that I'm fatigued when I get here. I talk up to Lyft drivers The interactions, TSA guys in the Seems like a tough day. Tough day. Seems like you're in a good mood, and I'm trying to stay loose. I'm trying to keep the mental muscles of a habit on a regular basis. Occasionally, I'll throw something out. Now, I'm talking about Lyft drivers. If I'm in a bad mood ... I get into a Lyft driver is not helpful. I mean, I'm coming out of the airport. I'm struggling with my bags. Not lifting a finger; I got to open up the rear I got to load the bags, everything. I get in, and he's just Now, I know that if I say, what do you I immediately trigger what Tony And I'm annoyed at this guy. And our pheromones are combative, but I'm And so I go, what do you This guy proceeds to unload on me, on all a complete jerk for being angry at him, And I'm just trying to get myself out of really negative vibe the whole way so that 65-miles-an-hour lane and make it inflict because I'm so annoying as a customer. But I've got a habit of small-stakes And who do I get a practice on? The Lyft drivers on a regular basis. The guy behind the counter I'm going through TSA. The grocery store clerk, The only way I'm at my best in my my negotiation muscles limber by the course of my day and then ideally Trying not to leave Trying to leave as much positive Andrew Huberman: I love that. And I'm very familiar with the feeling podcasting, or energy for things. And yet I'm somebody who's, I what people's experiences are. So I like the question, It's pretty open-ended. I suppose if somebody was really worst question I could possibly Chris Voss: Well, and I'll put a fine them with, what do you love about moment to immediately to shift into this what do you like about driving for Lyft? What do you love about driving for Lyft? I can trigger a state change in kind of mood you're in, because Plus additionally, the download I'm going to get a real clear I'm talking to a CEO of a company lack of a better term, they're And I'm like, that's a cool mission. Like I dig this as an entrepreneur, make a dent in the universe. I dig that. Like I'm trying to make a So I say to him, what do you love He immediately fires back I love leading teams and I love return on their investment. It's really important for me to And then, yeah, we deliver water. And then he said a fourth could be doing toilet paper. He doesn't care about the He's a great CEO, probably because You want a CEO deliver, a on investment for shareholders. But that's why he's a great corporate So by him giving me that download like, do I think this is a great guy? Yeah. Do our core values line up? My mission is more important his mission is making money. Now, I like making money, but it's not But that question, instead To what do you love about you? Immediately put them in a better place. Plus, you get some ridiculously you who they are real fast. Andrew Huberman: What is the best somebody who's asking to be heard? Perhaps they've got complaints, maybe People who are venting. Chris Voss: Right. Andrew Huberman: People seem to vary Some people just, they vent all the time. This happened, that happened, The way it's sometimes described is they They love to take inventories They did this, they did that. It's a lot easier often than taking could be focused on and do better. That's a universal truth in my mind. But people approach other people vent, presumably to get over whatever But all too often, it seems to just What do you do when somebody about you comes to you to vent? Is it just you let them vent? Or do you try and let them negotiate way that could help them more than Chris Voss: I'm really leery of of times it seems to be a spiral So why is somebody venting? They don't feel heard. They feel ignored. They feel like they've been They're frustrated. That's the feedback I'm going guessing is causing you to vent. In just an observation, it sounds because nobody listens to you. Sounds like you've been struggling Sounds like this is very What's the emotion? The particular negative emotion, being denied a goal in the future. Anger is about somebody's upset The type of negative emotion begins it forward thinking or is it backward can be two very different versions of focused on different points in time. So I'm going to try to intuitively, me, I'm going to start taking educated on what it is that's driving you? If you need to vent, you've been you, or you've been taking actions need to vent because your communication There are some clues here, and the what's bothering you, the sooner So I'm going to encourage letting the you, without giving you advice, without you, by trying to recognize verbally what deactivate the anger much more quickly. It's the whole basis for a People are venting, and so how do you instead of going on a rant for an hour system where they're poisoning themselves. I think negative emotions How do I deactivate that as quickly as much and you feel heard, you If it involves me, if it's a close friend in a situation to some degree, and I probably frustrated because I haven't to start taking some emotionally educated and I'm going to put it in the form of Seems like, sounds like, looks like, that's not it at all, I can say, It just seems that way. It puts you in a position to just let you're doing your best to understand. I'm not a fan of venting. If I go on a rant personally, So I want to deactivate that feet back under me emotionally. Andrew Huberman: Very useful Do you meditate? Chris Voss: Tiny little bits. I mean, I'm trying to make I have a gratitude exercise Other ways to make myself effective, non-sleep deep rest practice because I'm spiritual, so I'm talking to Andrew Huberman: You pray? Chris Voss: I do, yeah. Andrew Huberman: The morning Chris Voss: Both. Yeah, both. I mean, I think whether or not you whatever it is, I think spirituality Whatever your spirituality is, and be better off if you engage in It doesn't have to be any of the three is a component of who we are. So, yeah, I practice Andrew Huberman: So, sense of higher It could be, as you said, aligned with with the idea that there are things pay attention to, that we can all do service to, or both, something like that. Chris Voss: Pretty much like that. And then leaving it as open as a spiritual nature to us, period. Andrew Huberman: I agree. What about your physical training? I must say, you're in excellent shape. I imagine that went I mean, I saw &quot;Silence of the running around with other agents. Yeah. Shooting targets and running and And I think it was a 1980s film, so now they're doing other stuff as well, So was the FBI the first time you got were you an athlete and into fitness? And what are you doing nowadays to Chris Voss: Well, thank Sports, athletics, fitness I was into sports, but not Football, basketball. I'm a last-century guy. So long before the conditioning interval training and the rest of Weightlifting was introduced My senior year, I lifted weights. Some continued through college. Little bit of time in the martial arts. Ripped my knee apart in But, yeah, fitness has always been a part condition and the spiritual regeneration These days, I'm looking I know you don't like the term hack. Well, we like mechanisms. Scientists like mechanisms. Andrew Huberman: Yes. Hack sort of implies that we're using one I like mechanisms, but at the end something a hack because it gets more appealing to apply the tool. That's what matters to me. Tools sitting in a box don't do anything. People are using them. Then I'm good with the term. Chris Voss: Yeah. So what these days, cold plunge, sauna. Principally, I'm struggling joints that I know science will So in the meantime, good diet. The basic pillars, diet, not a overall, my diet is pretty good. And then the little things. Spiritual keeps me in shape physically. Hitting a cold plunge is challenging Andrew Huberman: And the state You don't need science to know cold water is going to change your and for the better, I believe. Once you get out, people forget this. They're like, I hate the cold. The point is not how you You can feel proud of how you point is how you feel afterwards. Chris Voss: The old saying, why do you Because it feels so good when you stop. Andrew Huberman: I like that. Spoken like somebody who worked Out here, we'd probably say something, lamps or something, although there I think that the idea that California is I think it's been overrun In any event, thanks for sharing that, physical from the psychological, right? I mean, we've been talking about the people you're negotiating with But then, of course, there's I mean, if you're run down three days spouse, and that's still in the back sick, not connected to your higher way you can be as effective at any job. So it's great to hear, and not bedrock practices that you implement. Chris Voss: Yeah, it's Almost everybody I knew that was for a living, they probably took Andrew Huberman: Yeah, I agree. The language around self-care, I'm going to editorialize for a second in line with what you just said. I think self-care sounds like it's all about self, but it's actually show up better for everybody else. More energy, more capacity, more conversations with the people we care So it's really refilling the fuel tank egocentric, narcissistic stance that And I understand why they do. People scroll through Instagram and and all this stuff, and listen, I'm but at the end of the day, self-care is the world if you're mission oriented. Chris Voss: Agreed. Completely agree. Andrew Huberman: Do you think FBI over the last 30, 40 years? Around that? I have this image in my mind of agents, hoagie sandwiches and looking through the ground with this kind of bulldog-like Put differently, I imagine there were very long and fatiguing. Do you recall one of the longer and how do you sleep at night Chris Voss: So the longest one almost day-to-day, an hour-to-hour Washington, D.C., 2003. Started the Second Iraq War. Guy named Dwight Watson rolled the and claimed he had four bombs. And he left four bombs Andrew Huberman: Had he actually Chris Voss: He was bluffing. He hadn't done either and Andrew Huberman: Like the thing it's like national holiday. Chris Voss: Yeah, holiday, right. Interesting for a whole bunch of reasons. Now I had to go home and go to sleep middle of that, and then it was just. I don't remember having trouble going good job and that I handed the shift from the bureau, was effectively And Vince was a brilliant. So. And the team that he was with, As a matter of fact, Vince because I didn't want to go. And he just kept saying, go home, get And finally, the fifth time So I felt like I was leaving And when working kidnappings, we expected And you just kind of got to. If you have faith in a process and the best it can be done, then I I guess to answer that question, you're working a case, a siege, don't run yourself into the ground. And there was some cases I worked in We worked hard on anybody we ever saw, but I worked with guys that realized that a beer, kick back and blow some steam. So I think everybody that I ever enough to recharge the batteries. And then depending upon the of you, it was a siege in St. Martin's Parish and went six days. I don't think those guys got a lot sieges, that particular type of siege You just got to gut it out. Andrew Huberman: Were there ever instances person on the line so they can just raid? Chris Voss: I never had You had to be prepared to do any siege that you might have to I was fortunate enough There's kind of a famous siege in, if London called the Prince's Gate Siege, David Veness had the bad guys on the phone And I remember that we were showing when you have to keep somebody That goes with the territory. So expect that's a possibility And it was a great siege. The bad guy, Salim, the photos phone is within his reach. David kept him on the phone. I've heard the tapes. The breaching explosions were going on. And Salim says, I got to go. I got to go. There's suspicious noises. And David Veness, in his classic there are no suspicious noises. Now let's get back to talking on the bus to the airport. Andrew Huberman: Bam. Chris Voss: And they went in, and I caught I had a presidential intern from the White We're drinking in a bar with David Veness. I got a lot of stories where I'm And the intern walked around everybody And he says, Chris says you kept moment that SAS came in the door. And David says, yeah, and I'd have if the SAS hadn't come in so soon. So why am I telling that story? If you're going to get into that all the things that go with it and the decision, somebody else did. You got to implement the strategy. Andrew Huberman: Do you remember a case gang, took over like an electronic store? Chris Voss: Good Guys siege. Andrew Huberman: Yeah, I There are two things that stand out One was the-- Chris Voss: Good Guys was the Andrew Huberman: Right. And bad guys, so to speak, went And I must have been a kid. This must have been, like, late. This was a late '80s I remember that case. It was either '89 or '90. I knew one of the Andrew Huberman: I was And as I recall, they ended up who were laying down on the ground. Is that right? Chris Voss: They knew that they were because they put bags over their heads. And that whenever the bad guys do it's easier to shoot somebody with a because you can't see their face. And so the bad guys had begun that process Andrew Huberman: God forbid anyone I realize circumstances putting bags over their heads. There's this notion of sheeple that Something about how somebody walks into ties on their own ankles or go into And that, in retrospect, had somebody have caused enough of a commotion And yet, of course, there's a brain, I would hope, that thinks, There's a gun in my face. Don't be an idiot. Right, because we also have heard I read about this in the newspaper. So presumably it's true, where someone women in the group that was held up And the person shot them. So that happens, too. I don't know if there's a fair and safe you're told to do something by somebody I mean, you have to ask, do they want combination of the three, in real time But for hostages, if they disobey, cause life or is it shortening their life? I guess it's very Chris Voss: The only thing that I could, you could do to humanize yourself and increases your chance of survival. So let's say you got ordered You could look at the hostage taker I'm Chris. Drop your name on them in a way so person to somebody with a name, that Humanization, whatever you can do to a human being because it's the opposite If you're easier to kill, if you've If you've been humanized, Like, maybe they're not going to kill They're less likely to harm you How do you get them as If they talk about a hostage, Do you mean Rex? I'll find a way to drop the So as soon as, if you can humanize, name, you increase the chances of of being treated better and comply. I'll do whatever you say, I'm move the odds in your favor. Andrew Huberman: You know that what I've talked before about my why I choose to no longer do it. I do think it has its place in making on humans, but that eventually extend to-- Chris Voss: But you don't want to do it. Andrew Huberman: I don't want to do it I don't want to do primate work or large But the point I was going to make they strongly discourage, near Chris Voss: Right. Andrew Huberman: They give them numbers. Chris Voss: Right. Andrew Huberman: So it all falls in line the moment something has a name, it moves sorts, and that makes it a relationship. Chris Voss: Right. Andrew Huberman: So interesting It elevates something to a It's up a notch and into Chris Voss: Yeah. Andrew Huberman: Which is perhaps the This is a topic that you're You mentioned &quot;Tactical Empathy,&quot; going to be out, or do we have some sense? Chris Voss: My guess is we'll finish have out at the beginning of next year. I'm currently working with couple of different projects. They've been enormously supportive, on the best time to get the the people I'm dealing with there. And actually stroke, the Funny set of circumstances, and that I'm working with there. So probably first part of next year. Andrew Huberman: Fantastic. What's your take on empathy? I think of empathy in the pop pain and we feel their pain, but of Chris Voss: Yeah. And that was Rob Malenka. Yeah. Chris Voss: Yeah. I was really fascinated by with him on that recently. And he said a lot of people use sort of for their own meanings. So my take on empathy, tactical out, because people give me thoughts I'm very close to Steven Kotler's would say empathy is about the Compassion is the reaction Andrew Huberman: I like that. And by the way, I'm a I think he's quite astute. And boy, is he a hard worker. He writes like a beast. I think he's up at like He also has like 50 Chris Voss: Well, he's away in the dogs. Andrew Huberman: Yeah, well, you can fit Gotcha, Steven. Chris Voss: And that was We started collaborating with Harvard empathy was not liking the other side. It was just demonstrating an Bob Mnookin's book &quot;Beyond between empathy and assertiveness. He says empathy is not agreeing, other side, which sort of falls It's about the transmission Now, empathy is a very compassionate equate to compassion itself. If I make you feel heard by me saying to is, you're going to feel cared for, It's going to land with you, really well. I don't necessarily have I know it's a precursor to compassion. So I would separate it And I would even separate it from a very compassionate thing to do. It's about ... tactical empathy verbally to you that I understand Tactic from the experience of hostage is that people largely react negatively. So the smarter move for me, positive, is to first deactivate the Calling the elephant in a room out. Don't deny the elephant. Don't ignore the elephant. Call the elephant in the room out. Say, it's probably going If I expect that you're going I'm not going to say I don't I'm going to say it's So simply, well educated, emotional instinct, influence on what the If I can define it in that way, If it requires me to have compassion limits my ability to use empathy, that ability to be limited, I So if you just define it strictly information, then it's not sympathy It has a very powerful effect. It at least feels like It reacts with the emotional circuitry, has, to some degree, if they're alive, have some of that going on inside. And of what I've read on even the training, I saw people who were paranoid of a wiring problem than a chemical And a lot of what I've read with paranoid schizophrenics. People, regardless of how disarray the them on some level to feel understood. So empathy is just about letting Example, when I'm working terrorism, in open civilian court against a a criminal, who also committed crimes. And I would sit down with him, and I'd I know where they're coming from. You believe that there's been a succession 200 years that have been anti-Islamic. And they'd look at me I never said it was true. I never said I agreed. I never said I disagreed. By me simply articulating what was, they were so startled by it. It was empathy. We were so good at that empathy. Frequently in that time frame, And I'd say, no, I respect a a Christian, but I respect your to you where you're coming from. That's empathy from my definition. And then it becomes an unlimited skill. I don't have to feel it. I don't have to necessarily Goldman says, there's cognitive your emotions are coming from. There's emotional empathy, me empathic concern, me wanting to My version of tactical empathy sequence on a continuum of sorts, It's just me showing to you that from, and it has a phenomenally Andrew Huberman: Tell me Chris Voss: Yeah. Mirroring is one of the simplest, easiest, Takes the least amount of brain power. It's just repeating one to has just said, can be one. It should never, usually, Hostage negotiators learn it by words that somebody has just said. It doesn't have to be the And the mirroring is not It's not mimicking anybody physically, or their affect or anything about them. It's just repeating We found that accesses for you got to energize to do it. It's a different part of People are usually either Like, I label, almost everybody Sounds like this is bothering you. Seems like you're just not And the mirror, I got to consciously And what's a mirror used for? It's in place of what Or would you please go on? Or I don't understand. Could you repeat that again. I'll listen for stuff that I need you to talk more about. And instead of saying, could I'll just mirror the words. Now, for whatever reason, it The way that lands is, I heard I got the words because I just repeated So I need a more in-depth same words that you just used. Because if you say, I think might say, what do you mean by that? And you go, isopraxicism is useless. You repeat the same words, only louder. You figure that saying it louder That doesn't work. I need you to explain, to go into more And for whatever reason, we found in business that if I mirror you, So I use it in that context. I might use it to get you Like, if what you just said back word for word, one to three I'll say, that doesn't make sense. Use my tone. Make it land with my tone so Somebody else just pointed out to me somebody and they're in midthought and of lost their train of thought, if you their train of thought back and expand. So it's a ridiculously effective people to expand and feel heard. Its simplicity puts some people off. There are some people that I don't see what good that will do. I always notice if somebody really wants is they're both high IQ and high EQ. And why does that work? A high IQ guy is going to want to It doesn't take any effort to do, It's really effective, and it's Andrew Huberman: Interesting. I must say that neuroscience has about how brains interact. This is starting to change. But most of what we know about how into functional magnetic resonance exposing them to movies or games that looking at brain state activation. There are a few laboratories starting in real time with both people in we'll be able to parse some of this. And I'm certain that somebody knowledge to go do the experiment. If not, I'll run it up the flagpole Stanford who could do this, because But I have the sense that what's happening when one hears their own words spoken brains processing the same information, So I don't have any insight as to what something is happening there, right? Evidenced by the real-world We don't need experiments to tell us and learn a bit of what's happening. If there's a fusion, for instance, centers, coactivation of ... There's voice that's very different than Most people cringe when they hear Most, not all. Some people are in love We know these people, but we know out the hearing of our own voice. Did you know that? As we're talking now, our auditory We don't really hear ourselves you speak, I hear you speak. So it's an active neurochemical And it's amazing, too, because as we and so forth, and other ways, too, thickness, etc., and our voice changes. But we always know self from other in actual auditory perception of our own. Chris Voss: That's fascinating. Andrew Huberman: And We shut down our response to Chris Voss: That's fascinating. Andrew Huberman: So maybe hearing back to actually hear what we just said. Chris Voss: Yeah, well, true. And that's why people, sometimes board so somebody else can hear. They can hear themselves out and then they go like, wait a minute. Did I just say that? Yeah. Interesting. Andrew Huberman: Interesting. Chris Voss: Useful. Andrew Huberman: Indeed. Proactive listening. Tell us about proactive listening. We're all told that we need The other day, someone said, As if that's supposed to remind us. Most people have two ears and one mouth. But I get the point. They were saying, hey, And more often than not, we default mostly broadcast, less reception. Right. Hence the call for nasal breathing. It's useful in a lot of circumstances What is proactive listening? How do we do it? What's it good for? Chris Voss: I'm really trying to get listening, just because active people have lost track of it, and it's interactive or it's proactive. And so we learned as hostage to label the presenting emotion. And we just assumed that. And the presenting emotion was always On certain rare instances, the guy almost always negative emotions. So we just assumed that it was What was driving hostage Now, if I may, because I about neuroscience to you. Andrew Huberman: Your knowledge I must say, numerous times you've and you've never been off the mark. You've clearly done your homework, too. Chris Voss: We keep trying to learn survival brain, is largely negative. Ballpark, I would say 75% negative. Your reactions are going to be negative. So, number one, I believe that's of neuroscience efMRIs have alluded to. And so then in hostage negotiation, label the presenting emotion. And then I've seen experimentation I think the first time I read about it and that book is a good 10 years old, I evolving, but primarily the experiment read about in other places, that if people my layman's paraphrase of the experiment a negative emotion in their head. And then he asked people to simply call self-labeled, then the emotion diminished. Now, the degree of diminishment varies, diminishes by simply, by calling it So if we're largely 75% negative and calling it out, well, let's be proactive. If you're a human being and we're going to be certain very predictable I should be proactive in calling it out. Anticipating the negativity is circumstance, is highly predictable. And your gut instinct before that, want to say, look, I don't want Your gut's telling you You're going to come off as greedy. So let me be proactive and say it's greedy, and that's the dialing over in the interaction, and just being emotions that either are taking place And I haven't seen any science opportunity to back this up. It inoculates, I can create a barrier. If I call out a negative that's actually inoculates you from it. And I've done this in practice. I was given a lecture Anybody asks a question, I try to no matter how bad the question is. This poor guy asked me a question that in his question that demonstrates that There was nothing about it that And so I said, this is going to answer I'm getting ready to give him the group that I think he's stupid. I can't think of a way to respond like, what are you thinking about? That's got nothing to do So I go, this is going to sound harsh. And I answer the question. And he just kind of goes, okay. And I start answering And he goes, that wasn't harsh. Now, if I hadn't said, this is the question, I guarantee you my And embarrassment is one of the worst on anybody, and he would hate me So I got a moment coming at me that is train run me down, or I can call that the guy says, that wasn't that bad. And that's what being proactive Andrew Huberman: I love it. And I'm recalling an instance during who sadly has passed away, but was a pure, insisted on getting the answers, She just was a ninja. She used to come into the laboratory when down and she'd say, you're going to hate And I'd think, oh, no, I'm analysis or some monumental thing. And then she'd say, you got to My god. What do you mean, I want to hate you? It was released, but I wanted nothing my work because I respected the She could have asked me to stand on my I probably would have done it if I thought And as a consequence, she would have for me and in many ways still is. But I'm wondering if she read your book with, like, you're going to hate me. And then she'd ask me for something. I'm like, oh, I hate you. That's nothing. But now I wonder if I would have been by the way, figure 2 needs redoing. I might have been kind So maybe she read your book. Chris, these are great tools, And thank you for sharing these. Chris Voss: Of course. Andrew Huberman: Did you ever employ the of kidnappers, as a means to kind of tap Because I think that we are all, as So I can imagine that the person to steal somebody's resources is And I do think there are people But I also know, because I've read about people who have done horrendous things, their dog and wouldn't harm an animal. But I'm not trying to But I could imagine that those other entry points for allowing them to see the Or is it the case that when these are to attack the, disarm the aggressor, as the bad actor, not considering Chris Voss: All right, so let's draw a a contained situation and kidnappers So you're probably asking about bad guys in a bank, Dwight Watson So very counterintuitively, if they're in out there that says the system that to give you the outcome that you have. So bad guy Dwight Watson The family's part of the The blunt, harsh reality of that is enough and it was so high profile, Now we could and did try to use them. I'm walking from one place to another, component on the way to command post. Hostage negotiator stops me, a couple of and they see I'm in a hurry and that And they got to say to me something and they go, look, our brother's He's just hurting. Things have gone bad for our whole Don't kill him over that. And I looked at the negotiator and we'll play that for him. Because if we can get that on tape exactly But if we put them on a phone with with them and they're going to say they don't very well intentioned, but it's probably going to make it worse. So you have to understand, family can them to say exactly the right thing. And it's probably going to need you know how it's going to land. And unfortunately, if you get it'll probably renew an old wound. Family members have hurt each other in And so a family member, my son told him Santa Claus wasn't real. And I have no. I have no memory of that conversation. I'm sorry I blew it for you. Right? Andrew Huberman: Wait, we got. Oh, my goodness. Chris Voss: But family members that they have no idea which comes And you don't even know what And so in a contained situation, helpful, but it's a surgical shot that Otherwise it can go the other people don't even know are there. Andrew Huberman: Gosh, that's such a because I'm a big fan of the so-called I mean, you can't look at any meaning adaptive or maladaptive family system at which that evolved. Which is not to say that some perfectly issues with a child having mental illness. That happens. But I'm told that 99.9% of the time, you or a lineage, a genetic tie, etc. that makes things start to make sense Right. And as you pointed out, sadly, Wow. Well, thanks for sharing that because I of it, know, they bring the mother As you said, that might be going to let his mother know. Childhood sucked for Billy. Right. And that's not what you want. Chris Voss: Yeah. Andrew Huberman: Goodness, What a complex, high-stakes, What did you do to unload I'm not just talking about getting beer with your coworkers afterward, roles for people, I realize. Do you think we can dump the hard way that allows us to be functional? Because people in your line of the world, you live long enough, Chris Voss: Yeah. Yeah. Andrew Huberman: And you're about get kicked in the gut. There's so much beauty to life Do you have tools, processes that you you can lean into your relationships with restored sense of optimism? Chris Voss: Yeah. I think most of the people that I've reinforcing of one another comedically,, Being able to laugh with each getting people laughter and genuine to tell you that you did wrong. I've been lucky enough to either of the time, or we just evolved it. That's just the way that we were. We were attracted to psychologically because of that. That's probably it, mostly. I mean, I've tried to parse some Like, I'm not particularly proud always felt like it was a privilege. Like, you must be proud I don't know that it's pride, but there's And so thinking about what drives me and I got people, also entrepreneurs their employees, what do we encourage doing, people feel good about it? And I try to take a lot of that agent and a hostage negotiator And we did joke with each other a lot Good-natured humor. Avoid the people that are running good-natured ribbing every now and then. And I think humor is one way or and an appreciation for what you're the mental health along the way. Occasional bourbon. Andrew Huberman: Love it. We did a whole episode on alcohol, and love it, and think, oh, wait, here. I'm supporting ... Listen, You're not an alcoholic, as long drinks a week or less is safe. Make them good, high-quality drinks consume them in the right context, But that's why I said love it. I support your love of bourbon. I'm not a bourbon drinker, about what you're up to lately. You alluded to it a moment ago that lot, so you're in charge of a lot of providing a lot of service in the world First of all, I want to say that One of my favorite books. Chris Voss: Thank you. Andrew Huberman: I don't say that lightly. I don't endorse books very often, but the I also have to say that it's a Split the Difference,&quot; and &quot;The award for best titles of any book. Those are just like amazing titles. Amazing titles. Chris Voss: Tahl Raz, our Andrew Huberman: Yeah, it's a Body Keeps the Score&quot; because there's then the book exceeds expectations. So really amazing book. People should listen to it, But you're doing a lot more Although I want to hear about But before you list off the number of about Fireside, because this sounds frankly, I haven't heard of before. What's Fireside? Chris Voss: Brand new It's essentially an interactive podcast. It's a subscription service founded Falon and I have been friends She was Google's youngest employee. She's an entrepreneur, dynamic, And it's sort of grew out of what's apps that are out there trying to combine And Falon suggested it to me and I thought And what it's turned out to interactive group coaching. And you get the app off your iPhone or phone is on, and then you log in, we do an coaching and then you get to ask questions So if you want to ask a question, we're And I get to see you and And you get to see me Or I interviewed Mark Cuban a couple of ask Mark questions or ask me questions. And what it has turned out to be is of how to get better at negotiations. After you've read the book class, where do you go next? One of the people that came on the podcast said, well, I don't have enough money yet because those are expensive and this is and work my way in that direction. And so the monthly coaching, if you were on a regular basis, on a monthly basis, what we're providing 25, 30 thousand a So at scale, it's an opportunity and the members on my team once And it's just kind of fun. We're getting a kick out of it interacting well with people. Guy comes on the first episode I did you helped me make a lot more money, And he just needed to know how to with his wife in a way that made her a good way to do that beforehand. And I was just like, that's a lot. I don't know how to respond to that people can say stuff like that to us. So the Fireside thing is kind of cool. We're still experimenting with it. It's an interactive It's fun. Andrew Huberman: Great. I mean, I would say changing lives there. I mean, the saving a And I think that the ability to also, I imagine, gives them the that you're providing in real time. It's one thing to hear about you can get feedback in real time. Are you on these Fireside chats Chris Voss: No, we do one every And the other thing, too. Like, I can explain something one way, and in your context, you can't quite get it. So that's what we found about Somebody comes on and asks a question answer it, and then they'll go like, So you get to hear people like you who but I haven't put it in your context yet. And that's the other thing A live Q and A. Andrew Huberman: We had a guest on data supporting the fact that people of doctors that they can relate to and health advice of physicians And oftentimes this can include the someone that they would aspire to be like. But oftentimes it's just Like, they both like baseball, or they sets a bridge where then the patient ordinarily they would be resistant to. Chris Voss: Right. Andrew Huberman: And there are And that really stuck with me because information or the delivery route of the rapport is even along something as like, fan on most things, but like, oh, you're Like, that can be the difference lower their blood pressure, the day-in versus not making the changes at all. Chris Voss: Rapport is a magic. Yeah, it's kind of a magic Andrew Huberman: Well, Fireside sounds not just ask questions, but to build So I'm going to check it out. Lord knows I need help improving my Believe me, I get the memos. Fact, what other writing projects Chris Voss: We've been toying manual for tactical empathy, which So it's sort of a companion book That's probably at least a year So in the meantime, we do We got a newsletter we put out latest cutting-edge application. Thoughts as much as possible. We're putting information out put out a lot of free, you know. I'm throwing out ideas on Instagram, put information out there so that So specific. We just finished a book for A friend of mine, Steve Scholl, That's sort of niched, but it's mostly the because every conversation they're in Sale of a house is one of of anybody's life, selling or In the meantime, we're spreading Andrew Huberman: We'll certainly point out the different venues for learning more. I want to say that numerous times threw out the words &quot;sounds like&quot; as an kind of crazy idea in the back of my mind. I believe that simple, field-tested just for resolving negotiations, but interact with each other and themselves. And if I have one wish for the world on would it be if kids learned early on to perspective, because I think that would or at least offering a hypothesis of what listening, and then getting a defensive about the accuracy or lack of accuracy. And on and on. I feel like the sounds like question, sounds like you believe blank. Just seems to me like one of the And I sure wish that all adults kids would learn about it, too. Chris Voss: Yeah, that's a great thought. How do we teach them at a younger an effective thing to do? It's actually a way to So, yeah, I agree. I mean, wave magic wand, right? Andrew Huberman: Exactly. Well, Chris, I want to thank Mean, you've joined us on this tour of so and present, and you let us get a little work, too, which I'm eagerly awaiting. I also just want to thank you You've always struck me as you can't put a value on that. You're constantly putting knowledge book, Fireside, and courses and on in very intense circumstances. But really with an eye toward people their daily lives, which hopefully unless they're a hostage negotiator. So I just want to say thank you being such a phenomenal communicator. And also thank you for doing Chris Voss: Yeah, I wanted to be here your podcast since I first discovered it. Andrew Huberman: Thank you. Chris Voss: Several years ago, And I love what you're doing in getting so people can navigate more effectively. Andrew Huberman: Thank you. Right back at you. Come back again. Chris Voss: All right, thanks. Andrew Huberman: Thank you for joining me I hope you found it to be as To find links to Chris's website and the Difference,&quot; as well as to his the links in the show note captions. If you're learning from and or subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific, In addition, please subscribe to the And on both Spotify and Apple, you If you have questions for me or comments that you'd like me to cover on the in the comments section on YouTube. I do read all the comments. In addition, please check out the and throughout today's episode. That's the best way to Not on today's episode, but on many Lab podcast, we discuss supplements. While supplements aren't necessary tremendous benefit from them for hormone support, and for focus. The Huberman Lab podcast has partnered we did that for several reasons. First of all, their ingredients Second of all, they tend to focus which make it easy to develop the effective supplement regimen for you. And third, Momentous supplements ship is important because many of you To see the supplements discussed to livemomentous, spelled O-U-S. So it's livemomentous.com/huberman. If you're not already following do so by going to Huberman Lab So that's Instagram, Twitter, now called On all of those platforms I cover some of which overlaps with the content of which is distinct from the content Again, that's Huberman Lab on If you haven't already subscribed to Neural Network Newsletter is a zero-cost podcast summaries as well as toolkits. So toolkits for sleep, toolkits for to dopamine regulation, and much more. Again, it's all zero cost. You simply go to hubermanlab.com, go to and simply enter your email and we Thank you once again for joining for And and last, but certainly not least, [CLOSING THEME MUSIC]