My name is Tyrone White. I'm a former 65 Menlo Crip. Some of my rivalries were the Blood gangs and the Crip gangs. We were involved in drive-by shootings as well as drug dealing. And this is how crime works. Yeah, of course I've I've been a victim of When you're going against there's no winners. Now you can look at it and say, &quot;OK, I shot more of they or, &quot;I killed more of they but both sides are taking losses. So if you both are taking a loss of life, there's no winners. When I was coming up, in gang bangings were the 9-millimeter, the .45s, Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun pump, AK-47s, TEC-9s. The first gun that I ever given to me as a gift from a chrome .25, little small Had, like, seven shots, six shots in it or something like that. And as you got older and and elevate yourself, of Guns are sold on the street You can even buy guns from enemy gangs, because right now it's a business. It's about making this money. They come from everywhere. could be from the police force. It could be from the military. You can never be caught what You gotta always be ready. You You are ready for war at all times. From the early '80s all the those were the years of So drive-by shootings were nothing. You could literally turn your news on every day during those years I mean, every day. We had a drive-by shooting I walked in the house, and I I must have been about 15 at that time. I remember my mom was on &quot;I'm so tired of these and killing one another,&quot; and I remember thinking to myself, like, &quot;Man, she has no idea that I was just in this situation.&quot; She never found out about it, but I just remembered the to her on the phone, &quot;Man, these kids need to stop And there's another situation to go out on what they when all the lowriders, all the car clubs, all the gang members, that's, like, the one day to where all the gang members, enemies, everybody can congregate in one area on Crenshaw Boulevard. I remember we seen a car and usually when you see with no lights or anything like that, you know that's a sign of And all you seen was and everybody just got to And we all just scattered like ants, just everybody screaming, because no one had guns actually on their person at the time. One of my big homeboys, he was very known. He had got hit in the face because they shot with a 12-gauge and they had buckshots, because they weren't shot at close range. Luckily nobody got killed. The Crips were founded in the '60s, and by Raymond Washington. He formed the Eastside Crips, which is on the east side of LA. Tookie Williams formed the Westside Crips. And through those two different sets start to The Hoovers, the East the Menlos, all these different sets. The object and the goal was but, as usual, things escalated, things multiplied, and violence became and s--- happened. When Raymond Washington got killed, that's what caused the division. That's what caused, that's between the east and the west, and different things start and it just became like a disease. One Crip set betrayed this Crip set, and then it just caused Bloods used to be the but now, just as many Crips are against one another A lot of Crips and because they share the For example, the Eight they have a peace treaty going on with the Inglewood Family Bloods, and that's because their borderline is connected right next to one another. So since our neighborhoods you gotta come through my I gotta come to your Let's make this a blood-free Not saying that we're homeboys but let's keep the peace between this area. The beef between the 65 Menlo Crips and the Hoover Crips, it goes way back. We actually all grew up together and went to school together. We became one of the biggest because our sets are so To get to the Hoover hood, you gotta come through our And so for us to get to we gotta go through the Hoover hood. I was raised, born and all my life. Had a stepfather in my life that taught me how to be a but, for the most part, I was raised by a strong single mother. Usually in the Black neighborhoods when kids that come from they usually get caught because your mom is out working, trying to make a living While she's at work, you're doing s--- that you know you're And that's really, that's I was about 10 when I first I knew them very well. It comes down to, &quot;Hey, you've been chilling a lot. You from the hood. And making it official or doing something to Can be anything from sometimes four or five persons. It's to see how you handle yourself. It's to see what type of skills you have. If you get into one of can you stand your whether you get beat up or not? You have to know how to fight back. You gotta be a monster to but particularly the Crips, The word Crip really originally meant Community Resistance in Progress. It was a way to bring the community, to uplift the community, Of course, they took on a moniker and the appearance of a gang because, according to the dictionary, a group of five or more To be a Crip, you have to You have to walk a certain way. But for me, the allure was And they wore blue rags. They wore blue jeans. They wore blue Chuck Taylors. The dress code for me back in the '90s, in the early '80s, it was definitely 501 Levi Jeans, creased. I would go buy a can of starch and literally spend about layering the starch to a point to where before I even put my pants Crips wore K-Swiss It was actually a disrespectful It was called K-Swiss for Slobs is a disrespectful If you wasn't a Crip, If you wasn't a Crip, you And so to learn how to Crip walk and to actually perfect was like a badge of It's when you look at the way they dance, the way they do it, the way they incorporate certain moves along with the hand signs Words that Crips usually use which was part of the Everything we say would start with a C. If you had to say If you say b----, you say citch. It's just different things that you could replace the B with a C, you would do it. And that was the same Anything with a C they wanted eliminated. And it may sound strange, &quot;No, that's stupid. Y'all sound stupid.&quot; That was our language. That We understood it, and And if you disrespect us and you might get your ass whooped. Of course, they threw up the C. The C is, you just take your hands, you make a C with your hand. And now your set, your actual neighborhood, your Crip neighborhood, like the 60s, they have their signs. The Hoovers, they have their signs. The Menlos, they have their signs. You're going to throw up to let people know that You're from that neighborhood. We threw up the M. It was just a M. You just take your hands across you, which is just how Ice Cube throw up the W when he's in concert and taking pictures. Snoop Dogg throws up the W. Just turn it upside down, Gang graffiti is a big part of the Crips. People that are coming in there, they know when they see that on the wall, the Rollin' 60 Crips or the they know, &quot;We're entering this gang. This is their neighborhood.&quot; The gang structure is not so with underbosses and We didn't give titles like that, but people automatically who the double OGs were, and who was ranked over who. The double OG is usually that has put in more work He's done it all: killed, robbed, made money, been to jail. Everything. You name it, he's done it. Usually 50s, 60s, higher age. They were around in the '70s, in the '80s, when gang banging really just exploded. They were at the top of their game. An OG really falls not too much different from a double OG except that he may be a little younger. May have done a little less of the crimes. Then you have some of the OGs that have turned their lives around, and they just want to have a wife and kids, and They're making money the legal way. So what makes them the OG is the fact that they're talking to the little homies, to the young homies, showing how they were able to do this. Street soldier is exactly A street soldier is going to go out there and put in that work for for the little homies, or A street soldier has no limits. He's going to go out there and do what he has to do, no matter what. The little homies are usually, of course, what they sound like, the little homies that's They're going to imitate. They're going to copy everything And if the big homies is robbing people, shooting the little homies going to My main thing was always to whoever called me they big homie, and make sure that he was taken care of, and vice versa because He don't have to, but he does. I started out selling and then moved to crack cocaine and robbing. I did robberies. That was my way mostly of making money and keeping money in my pocket. The big homies had the big dope, and they'll issue it out They'll issue it down to It was a way for everybody OG homies, all the way down to the homies in junior high school to make money. The homies in junior high school, they may be out there $5 rocks, $10 rocks, $20 rocks. The big homies, they moving big weight, ounces, quarter-pounds, The drugs came from, a lot and as well as the I mean, there's a story one of the biggest Black dope dealers in the history of Los Angeles. And he was set up. He was caught up in that Iran-Contra stuff with Ronald Reagan, and come to find out that the DEA was supplying him with dope, the same dope that they gave So it's like, that's just how it worked. They put it in our to keep us down. Always a goal of Crips to make and to open up your own business, whether it be a smoke shop, a liquor store, or a That was the goal, to find and make it somewhat as legal as you can. The LA riots happened in '92. I was 18 years old at that time. The LA riots was a result Those four officers that on video beating Rodney When they were found innocent, that just sparked I didn't never think I The ground zero of the riots happened five blocks from my house. I was sitting at home watching So we jump in the car, By this time, you got hundreds starting to migrate to So at this point, it just It was spreading like wildfire. Every car that came that had a white person in I saw news reporters getting beat up. I saw cameramen getting beat up, getting their cameras taken from them. And at that time it really didn't matter what gang you were from it's a Black-against-white thing now. So it didn't matter if or whatever you was. Even though it was such a messed-up day, it was such a f---ed up to kind of rejoice because in a long time that Crips and Bloods and against this one common enemy, the LAPD. And so after days of rioting, some of the community leaders, like Jim Brown, the football player, a couple of popular gang from different areas, and decided that this was to try to bring a peace treaty, Even though it was something bad that caused us to get to that level, it still was an opportunity for The peace treaty lasted, officially, maybe a good couple weeks, and it kind of continued to dissolve as weeks and months went on, to the point to where But for that little short When gangsta rap came out, it a lot of Crips. And when NWA came out, which is the group that Eazy-E, rest in peace, Eazy-E And from him, you had that were from Crip neighborhoods. You had Snoop Dogg, you had WC, all these popular gang rappers that was in the neighborhoods that were blowing up on the mainstream. And so now you got people sitting at home watching MTV, &quot;106 &amp; Park.&quot; They're watching all these video shows, and they got these gang with the blue rags and and wearing all the gang but they're actually and now it's being broadcast Aside from the UK and the Netherlands, I've heard about Crips in China. I heard there's some Crips in Africa, which I've actually seen people in Africa cripping and just loving this West Coast culture. And I think all these countries adapted onto these United States values and these United States ways just because of how it was glorified, not really understanding that people lost their lives This is not something to play with. In 1994, I went to Oklahoma. I got a football scholarship to go to Oklahoma to play football. That's pretty much really what or anything else bad happening Played football there for two years at a historically Black college. In 1996, '97, I moved to Oklahoma City, and I started working at the They needed a gang So of course I was qualified for that. Just volunteering my and educating them on because I had no idea So I went and I sat down to see exactly, where did I did two years in the school system. They came to me and interested into basically running traffic, writing tickets, blah, blah, blah. I'm like, &quot;Yeah, just I'll do that. See what that's like.&quot; Because I actually wanted to see how they dealt with drug dealers with me being on the And all the complaints that I had as a criminal, all the police brutality, all the mistreatment from the police, I got to witness that And a lot of times I or, like, &quot;Hold on.&quot; Like, it was a couple times that conversation with me, &quot;Look, either you with So even in the training I dealt with racism. I Because a lot of those officers felt like, &quot;This dude is a criminal. This dude is from the streets. How in the hell are you guys Blah, blah, blah. That's why even after I and I moved back to California, I still ended up hooking and old gang members, and Even after being a police My experience with the LAPD, they still haven't found a way to deal with communities and cultures that they don't know nothing about. It's the same tactics. Dirty cops, bogus charges, planting drugs, mistreatment because of who It's the same thing. It hasn't stopped. But one way the police can is to continue to work with those that want to work with them. Big U is an example, from Rollin' 60s. Guys like that, that are gang activists that are trying to do things and help kids in the community and bring some positivity The main thing is to save lives, and after you save lives, you I went to jail in Oklahoma for robbery. Since at that time when I was out there, it was for a robbery that I did when I was living in Oklahoma. When I came back to California in 2006, I went to jail again in and they end up finding out about another robbery that I did, I end up taking the three-year deal. When I first got arrested, to the main LAPD headquarters, what they call the Parker Center. They transfer you the next So I left the Parker Center that morning. They put me on the jail bus, which is known as the Twin Towers. You usually go into the tank. The tank is basically a holding area where a whole bunch of And I'm talking about mixed in. Crips, Bloods, Mexicans, everybody. And that's just a, that's like a box of And sometimes you get and the officers just leave Whatever happens in there, it happens. And you're going to always that's going to challenge you, especially if you're from a rival gang. You listen for the lingo. You Or you might see people that you haven't seen since elementary, and you lost contact with them. You wonder where they were at. And so you find out that and so you guys gotta just connect on one. Now, if it becomes a racial thing, Bloods and Crips, they find a way to unite against whatever race It could be some violence erupt in between the transportation into the different dorms But for the most part in the county jail, Crips was with Crips, Bloods with Bloods, or sometimes you get where it's a mixed dorm. Now, don't get me wrong. If I went in there as a or a 60 going in there and it's bad blood automatically. No matter we're Crips and we're Crips, we're in the same unit, it don't matter. We need to settle this beef. So I might walk in here and &quot;Hey, hey, hey, you from Menlo? I need that fade. I need that fade.&quot; So that lets you know that at some point, you and this guy have both of y'all sets don't get along. Inside or outside of prison The way you carry yourself on that you're expected to except at a higher level because it's a little than it is on the streets. The thing that made me When I took the scholarship to the school, I was in the process of changing my life. I just didn't know it, but that was my start of changing my life. And when I started working with gangs and talking to the kids in the schools and at the juvenile jails, and I seen how I was and how much they respected me and trying to teach them, it It just made me want to and that's what I've I met somebody one day, and They was like, &quot;You You should think about acting.&quot; So I started doing acting And so I've done several projects and been a part of several TV series and dramas and different things that have gotten my foot So there's definitely some from my past that was negative, yeah. I'm Andy Domingo Pellerano, former soldier of the Latin Kings. I used to run a drug-trafficking and this is how crime works. So, it was in 1995 when I got involved. It was because of the name, because of the weight When you say Latin Kings, they thinking, like, &quot;Man, Like, &quot;He's a Latin King.&quot; Initially, it's to uplift our people. This is not a gang, right? This is like a organization, just like you might have First, it would be a validation of who you were in the streets. You just couldn't come from anywhere. &quot;Hey, I want to be a Latin King.&quot; Who are you? What type of work you put in? Who knows you, you know what I'm saying? Are you violent? You know what I'm saying? Like, things gotta line up So, when you have two or three people, they want you to be initiated, they'll have five men that jump you, beat you up in a circle, How you handle that if you made the initiation I remember specifically I was 14, 15 years old, man, it felt like the longest I thought they was giving me extra time. I'm like, &quot;What time is it?&quot; And it was like, &quot;It's And I'm fighting, I'm But when you fall down, They let you get back and that's part of the initiation because if you just stay Then when the time is up, &quot;Amor de rey, amor de rey.&quot; Everybody's saying, &quot;King You hug, and now we're laughing about it. You feel a sense of worth. You feel like you have a sense of purpose. Now you a part of something you a part of something You get in a gang, they give you a name. They change your name. I eventually turned into and I became a slave to my own name. So whether if I had to kill you, if I had to steal from if I had to hurt you, you're because my identity was in this name. And I went hard behind that name. So, they had the peewee That was the trial period just to see your character, see if you a man, if you're willing to fight, if you ready for war. If you're a juvenile, you're and then from there a soldier, and then from a soldier So, in the ranking, they had they had the vice president, which is basically the enforcer. They had the council that would see, it's just like a counselor. Somebody that had a lot of that you would have access to. And then they had the treasurer that would control the finances to allocate where the funds would go. So basically that was So, the first Inca, you You know what I'm saying? So that was a position of authority. And the one that had rank in that period was Paco, and I think in New So, they had some people because they just simply or didn't take it seriously. And then there was cases where some people would get demoted, then somebody else would And there was instances where and there was a green light on them that if they seen them, smash on sight. I kind of skipped the peewee stage because I was doing things that peewees shouldn't have been doing. When I was in prison, I he was a Blood, and I was a King, so then we just joined it together and was able to run the whole compound. Now, in that organization, I I was the president of that, and in Blood, he was the vice president. And I took that from the and was really, that's where I Just really transporting When you in poverty, because you think money is We would steal cars. We had the keys to the Camrys. We had the skeleton keys. You could just go unlock the I was selling drugs, I was robbing people. By any means necessary, whatever I had to do to get because I was deluded by my own vanity. It was whatever came along the way that you was able to get money and put your hands on, you would do. I used to run a drug-trafficking network. One point in time I was going to Houston to bring bricks back from the cartel. We going out to Houston, It takes a long time to count 20s and fives and ones of $48,000. And then dealing with the clubs, we would deal with the I'd give it to them wholesale to where they'll break it all the way down, and they're making money off of that so then I'm making money off of them, but they're making money too. They had a lot of strip clubs. Like, they had Visions. A lot of them was in New Orleans East. One of the clubs on Bourbon that we frequented where we every time we were there, popping bottles, throwing money in the air. All of this a part of that life. But the more money I was making, the more money I was spending, I just think about how throwing money in the air. I can remember everybody and I'm hanging out the window throwing money out the just so everybody could see money flying down the interstate. So, when the Latin Kings it started in Chicago, which So the Latin Kings was formed so they could combat the based upon the Aryan Brotherhood and the other Black gangster disciples and these other factions, so they came together oppressed in that time. There was a lot of Puerto but then it was just you know what I'm saying? Chicago, New York. Those were the main chapters, and Miami, and then it filtered to kind and I remember just at the parades, we would be over 100 deep at the parades. Every King, regardless of where you at, you would fly those colors. The gang signs were still the same, when they would throw up the crown. And every greeting would and they would touch the to unite the crown, and to their heart, tapping their heart. And they would say, &quot;Amor de rey.&quot; They would throw that up. That's why I don't, like, people do that and I don't do it because to me, that brings me back to that place. Like, they would do that. They would bring it Like, that ain't, you So it's a lot with that. But the points, they stood for something. And you gotta think, I'm thinking that in the mind of a child, because I was a child. Like, love, honor, respect, these are good attributes, right? The five-pointed crown is They go into the religion of Kingism. The colors black and gold, the black symbolizing the darkness, the gold being the king rising out of the darkness So, the five points in obedience, loyalty. In other factions, it was righteousness that And then they would have a tattoo where they have a crown, and they'll have five points. I got five points up here. I got the five-pointed crown right here. I got the five-pointed That's how you could identify one another. You would see that on the arm, you would know that's a King. They had Banks Street 31st Hoovers, they had Folks and Crips. All of that was rivals. And that's why basically the ride under the five, because they have the same rivals. When you think about gangs everything was segregated within blocks, within demographics. So so you knew not to go on that block if you was part of a So that was based upon demographics. And then also it's territorial, so like, who's going So if you're selling this other section can't come in and make money on your street You had a force behind you. It was like a machine. Like, this is what you're doing, and these people are here Like I said, in the street life, when you in the streets, When you in the streets, you If not, the Jungle Creed states, &quot;The strong must feed on any prey at hand. I was branded a beast and sat at the feast before I was even a man.&quot; That's the creed that they go by. It's taking. You know, I And if you want to go to You know, it's just not having no concern, no appreciation for life. It was all about you. You gotta think, you're in New Orleans, you in the murder capital. So obviously you're going to carry a gun because people are not So then you would take If it's a fight, let's get in a fight. But if you pull out a weapon, I'm not going to let you kill me, so I need to have a weapon. You don't go to a gunfight And you just had to be There's consequences to actions, right? Because there's a certain that you're to honor and live by. Think about the points Love, honor, respect, obedience, So, when you're dealing with streets, you're dealing with rebellion. So anytime people are there must be built-in pressures. There has to have rule; You wasn't supposed to even sisters. Family was off limits. Homosexuality, that was not permitted. No, it was once a King, always a King. So there was no walking away. When you leave, you had to go through a protocol so you could leave. You paid dues also, and Another rule was, &quot;One moves, all moves,&quot; so basically, if we you better pop off too. And if you don't, then you're Now when we have a meeting, you're going to get beat up for that, so you either take the or you're going to take it aside. When I was a part of it, like, even a guy, he would tell everybody to turn around. Like, nobody was to take pleasure in seeing their brother get beaten. It wasn't entertainment. It's certain degrees of it. There's certain infractions that will enable you to get a violation, then you proceed to move forward, but there was certain infractions to where you would have a green light and it would be smashed on sight. Like, that's it, you're out of here. You're not a part of this. You'll never be a part of this again. And if they see you, it's up. The religious aspect of the Latin Kings is the gravitation Oh, you talking about &quot;amor de rey.&quot; All right, Jesus Christ so when you think of amor, you think of love. God is love. How can this be bad, right? The Bible says we're a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. That's Kings. The initiation process to be jumped in, they would call it the baptism. We would have meetings, and we would meet in a cemetery. Think about that, right? But we would meet in the cemetery. And then the New Orleans now, basically they the same constitution from Chicago. So when we would have meetings, they would open up in prayer. Everybody would get on their they'd open up in prayer, and they would address certain This is what needs to be handled. This is what needs to be seen at. This what needs to be done I would put my money in you know what I'm saying, and that was supposed to go to other Kings that were incarcerated or to look out for But ultimately, I don't You know what I'm saying? We didn't meet as much as they probably should have. When I was in prison and I joined the Latin because they both run they both ride under the five, we would meet on the big yard. And when we'd meet on the big yard, it would be to address any new recruits, you What's going on in this dorm? Where's this money going? We've written up and making sure everybody's going to abide by this so we can have a structure The connection between the and the ones in jail is If you're just a peewee nine times out of 10, you're unless it's your close comrades that was running with you head up. The Latin Kings, to be was based upon recognition like you already having a name and you proving yourself in that prison. So when things came your way, you would handle it with violence. You'd be ready for You would form connections based upon your street connections to really get influence on the guards. Now you got influence on the guards, you have access to things of the world. The more people I would have, I understand how an organization works. So at this point, I'm so this was based upon my security because I wouldn't really but I would capitalize off of it. So the more people, the so the less things I have to because I have people &quot;Look, go do this, go do And then I reap the benefits of it. So then I started going By this time I'm on extended. I'm bored. I have nothing better to do. &quot;All right, let's fight. I'm going to get respect from and then on top of that, you get the respect from because now they know you're not going to be able because you're going to that you gotta do. You been here 10 hours, 12 hours. You might not make it home for 17 hours if you mess with this prisoner. So guess what they do? For me, prison, it made me worse. I didn't get saved in prison. The only thing I got from prison is how to be a better criminal. Man, my breaking point, bro, I didn't care about the fighting. Like, pain don't last long, you know what I'm saying? It was really my kids, man. When I did that five-year bid she was 2 years old when I went. I had been locked up, like, four years, and I was on maximum security. This instant, the officer he was cool with me, so and he lets me hold my little girl, even though I'm non-contact. I got a belt, I got I'm holding my beautiful baby girl. She's like, &quot;Daddy, what is this?&quot; I said, &quot;That's my bracelet, baby. Daddy's shining, you And she looks and she And she grabs my shackles, and I'm making them jump like a jump rope. I was like, &quot;Oh, that's And she looks, she said, &quot;You look stuck. You look like you stuck.&quot; I told you, prison didn't make me better. I'm about to start this But all of this stuff was breaking me. So getting out, for me, it wasn't even a thought because I didn't care what they would do or what they was going to say. I started going to prison at 12, 13. It was stealing clothes and selling them on the block and then possession of a stolen weapon. They kicked my mama's door Then we was all at a parade. We was really going to We had a eight-ball in a bandana. One of the guys had a knife. But, man, God intervened. We ended up getting caught before we could get out and At 16, one count of three counts of aggravated assault, one count of aggravated criminal damage. It was gang-related. Got locked back up, and I was in there 17, and I got a five-year suspended sentence. Then I ended up getting I was on the streets two years, and then I got locked back up. I came home 26, 27, I got I come home 30, 31. Then 32 I overdosed on I was dead on the floor. And I say the paramedics, awesome. They did their job, but He brought me back It's like I didn't care about my life. I'm putting myself in jeopardy. You living that life not knowing that loves you in the process. When I overdosed on heroin, to the church, mandated by the court with a suspended sentence if he leaves, we vacate to trial on the initial So it's either complete rehabilitation program or go I went, because I'm like, I said, &quot;Paco's dead. I'm a new creation in Christ.&quot; That's where rebirth come from. I'm in the process of to where we rehabilitate Some people look at me and Well, what's a pastor Older men need to take accountability to be there for the younger men. They want to see you love them. You gotta give your time Don't just tell them what they need to do, show them what they need to do, right? So how are you going to do that? By proximity, by inconveniencing yourself and going into these neighborhoods, I go hood to hood, block to block, prison to project to juvenile facilities, and I share my testimony, because I make myself transparent. I don't get cleaned up So, I used to rap for the world. I opened up for Kevin Gates, opened up for VH1 &quot;Love &amp; Hip Hop.&quot; I had a beat from Mannie Fresh with Mannie Fresh on the I got a new single out with my wife and our sister Roxy coming out It's called &quot;Amazing Grace.&quot; It's like a 2023 rendition. It's no coincidence, like I'm here talking you know what I'm saying? My name is Alex Sanchez, and this is how crime works. Gang violence comes in I ended up going to prison. I got shot at. I got deported. The crimes that I committed but I learned and came out strong. I came to the United States in 1979 and experienced a culture shock and then a culture clash especially even Mexican, I started seeking ways in and in middle school I was introduced to the Mara Salvatrucha Stoners 13. The initiation into the gang, it always is through a beating. They call it &quot;jumping in&quot; in English, or in Spanish &quot;brincado,&quot; which is getting beaten This is part of what you expect in the warfare, is that you will suffer violence, right? And that's the initiation of I ended up joining what's called the Normandie Locos clique. Initially, it was all about protection, being there for each other. It was seven of us, two and we were all homeless. Shortly thereafter, we have our first friend that was killed. We called him Rocky, from And that basically brought of getting back to those that hurt us. Around '85, '86, there coming into the United States, especially Los Angeles, It was the first time you MS-13 didn't have the funds So for us, the cheapest was the machete. It was something It was a tool for And eventually, we were known as a gang that used the We would go and fight in rumbles Some of us would carry knives. Back in the day, a chain, right? I myself got arrested for crimes, carrying a concealed weapon. I was on my way to shoot somebody, and I got stopped by the I will say divine But I probably would've killed somebody or probably would be in prison doing life, like many of the folks that I go see. The violence that I used was the way that I used to release I was that angry boy, and it took me a long time to realize that I could make a change. I had tattoos on my body, I ended up getting three dots, &quot;the crazy life.&quot; Then I ended up getting the gang name tattooed across my chest. For more traditional gangs, they would put their gang name or a girlfriend's name on their eyebrows. But to start getting for the MS-13, was something different. The more tattoos you had on is the more committed you that I'm here, I'm in your face. I went through the painful process of getting tattoo removal. It was difficult for me, because I felt like a coward doing it, that I was letting go of so and things that I believed in, but that was part of the process. The relationship that MS-13 with the Barrio 18th Street goes way back to the '80s. We, for the most part, were in the same blocks but we also maintained close relationship. It was mostly because the in the area was composed mostly Central American and Salvadorian. But in 1992, Shaggy from the Western Locos was shot and killed by and that's what severed the relationships. Many people started dying, primarily because everybody 18th Street was a lot bigger than MS-13. Still is in the area. And so they were more connected with other gangs as well. They brought in other Chicano I got called in and said, &quot;Hey, Alex, be ready because because they're going to It was a cruel war. There have been points temporary troops and whatnot, But also in 1993 in Los Angeles, there was a truce amongst that actually reduced violence. But the violence has not gotten back to the levels we saw prior to 1993. If you just live on the and represent the neighborhood well, then you'll be OK. If you break the rules, right, then there is punishment. There are some that are judged to death, especially those that those that become snitches But I have not seen that there's, like, a task force of gang members that are going around and looking at every to go target you and kill you. Most of the time, are because they come back to the block. MS-13 is known as Mara Salvatrucha. You could say MS-13, MS, La Mara. You can have different references to it, even alluding to la garra, or the claw, which is While you have the devil's that is used too, also in People have transformed it. They put both hands to make MS-13, or MSS-13 during the time, was into that heavy-metal scene, whether it was Slayer, That music really was how we let out. It wasn't that we were There were some individuals that were into la Santa You have people from all the some people that believe in Christ. So it's a community overall. That's what you call the barrio. So in some ways, being in the gang is like being in some sort of religion. In '86, I ended up getting arrested and went to central juvenile hall. Once you're in prison, you and you're known by as somebody that stood up for himself. So it became a rite of passage to rise up through the ranks like that. Eventually, I made it to prison in 1991, and went back to prison And in 1994, I ended up getting deported. After 12 years of a civil war, the war was over in El Salvador. So many people were getting deported. My first thought was, &quot;I'm I don't have a criminal so maybe I could get or something to that nature, right? I wasn't planning on going or getting caught up or dying down there. But that changed immediately As I was going to the terminal, I saw the gang writing on the hillside, and it said &quot;MS-13.&quot; But as we go down the highway, I ended up seeing on the the Roman numerals &quot;XVIII,&quot; which means 18th Street. And then I realized, So the rivalry must continue.&quot; And I started to start looking around and being more alert as to where I was at and who was beside me. So, shortly after arriving in El Salvador, I ended up getting death threats. A death squad came out or the Black Shadow. And their mission was to that was rising. I had two people with me, two They had been child soldiers in the war, and they were looking up to me. I had two grenades, I'd never used a grenade, and I said, &quot;I'll probably blow myself up, but these two guys, they So I carried my gun, and and that's how we went because I was under the or shot at or even try to be kidnapped from these death squads. The level of violence from whatever I had experienced and that was residue from the war. So you would see gang members using that type of in-your-face violence that was used during the war. I couldn't go to my home I ended up eventually because I felt death around me. Coming up as another immigrant, I got kidnapped in Oaxaca by the federales and almost died in the desert crossing Matamoros into So I have this knowledge of tragedy, of what I saw of other migrants coming up all the way from South America. It's not something that to be targeted, kidnapped, and possibly killed just for But the desperation of what forces people to have to put The only place that I could I was tired of going to prison. I was tired of a life of violence and I was able to talk and they gave me a pass. Because they seen that I was working and taking care of business, and I still lived in the block, but I wasn't getting involved in none of their gang activities. There isn't a specific, I would say, leadership structure, but it's whoever fills in the neighborhood where Most of the time, nobody really wants to because you become a prime They're not a secret group to make millions and millions of dollars. They're disorganized structures that work on what crimes In Central America, Honduras, Guatemala, you have individuals that might take on, you know, into a criminal entity, such as being part of a cartel or getting involved in human trafficking. But it's not something that's to be something like that. So, what El Salvador has done right now with creating the biggest in the smallest country in the continent is that it fits over 40,000 people in a place called Tecoluca. The prison's called Cecot, and they have been transferring that they have designated as gang members to be incarcerated for life. These individuals will never but in a coffin, and that's what the message We have seen this before. El Salvador has had with the Cero Tolerancia, That created mass incarceration, and it didn't reduce violence. This prison is basically going to be holding all these people that Based on just their affiliation, they're being sentenced to life in prison. In the history of mass incarceration, especially in California, this has been a failure in So we know that mass incarcerating people is not going to bail that created all this At this moment, we have the military of El They're arresting, they're on the streets, they have roadblocks every You have local police, but you also have such as the death squads, the exterminators that Before it was the Black Shadow; now it's these exterminadores that are social-cleansing groups that target a specific people So I think that politicians what is the exit strategy out and having the country and start really focusing that has always been every presidency before that. The Mara Salvatrucha into the early '80s in what's considered the Koreatown, Pico-Union And it started because of immigrants coming from Central America, unaccompanied minors and and suffered this culture clash with different ethnicities, right? The migration flow started into, like, Long Island in the 2000s; the Washington, DC, metropolitan area; places like Houston, Texas, where there's a big Salvadorian community. And in the United States, prison became part of the continuation of engagement of the gang. It didn't stop the gang by but it influenced the gang Once the war ended in El Salvador, the government of the United States started mass deporting people Guatemala, and Honduras, and that's what started in those countries. Homies Unidos started by members of gangs that had Many other members, I knew from the gang, or I had done They invited me to a and that's how we in the Pico-Union and, well, It wasn't easy in the beginning. We really didn't have the In 2000, I became part which, they had arrested stealing kilos of cocaine And then he flipped, and then he told about all the crimes that the gang unit was committing, things that we were saying that they were doing in the courtrooms, but the jury didn't believe us over a cop. I became part of the Rampart scandal behind being a key witness, an alibi for a 14-year-old kid that was being charged with murder, in which he was at the during the time that So it couldn't have been him. And that's when the same came after me, and they arrested me for the sole purpose of to be deported. So that developed into this new scandal within immigration during of how they used immigration as a tool to get rid of people And then eventually I was released and won political asylum in 2002, but the LAPD had not forgotten me and were not happy that I sued them, and they settled. And in 2009, they came after me again. They put me in a federal RICO case. The charges were dismissed, and I was able to restart again, because Homies Unidos lost everything. We lost the office, we lost So I organized again. And now, we have 11 staff doing a lot of work in the community. Having been part of that myself, it's like, I know that I'm on a hit list, on a target list by the and they're just looking for ways in which they can get me indicted. So I have to walk a thin I have to watch everything I say. Well, the media has really to the MS-13 gang. That comes down through the state, especially when you have a president that directly names a particular gang like MS-13, and the repercussions Because once a president it's telling their departments to go after this particular group. MS-13 is one of the most because they're targeted by the immigration rhetoric. The &quot;bad hombre.&quot; One individual commits a While other gangs such 18th Street, the Latin Kings, who in some cases are are not -- have coverage like this one, because they're mostly either Puerto Rican or Mexican American or African American, which And nothing feeds gangs as labeling them as &quot;the world's most dangerous,&quot; as &quot;the city's most dangerous.&quot; The mayor Antonio that they put out a list of the top 10 worst gangs in Los Angeles, and every gang wanted to be part of it. It was like, &quot;Hey, I'm dangerous too.&quot; So it creates this system of trying to see which gang is No. 1. And every gang wants to be No. 1. You get to a point where you get tired of being You get tired of being called &quot;Hey, I'm raising your children. When are you going to So you start trying to figure out, like, I'm getting too old for this, or I want to be more responsible. People age out. People, some of them become Christians, some of them try to study and start their own businesses. You have many, many gang members that have turned their lives around, and now they're preaching. I'm still called a gang member, right? And I say, well, I am. I am part of it. I work in those communities. So I am. I cannot say that I'm because that's how society has labeled me, that I'm a gang member for life. But am I a gang member that's calmed down? Yes. I'm somebody that's looking the children of many of my Yes. In my life, I've done a lot of things, a lot of good things, but also bad things. And I regret those things that I've done. But what I'm doing is trying to give back to the The organization, Homies Unidos, we're not stopping gangs, Law enforcement is incarcerating them. We're trying to save as many as we can by helping them once they're Having a nonprofit, you don't have that two-bedroom, two-story house with a pool. No, you're not going to have those things. I'm able to support myself and my family and the little, humble place that I have that's not even mine. I'm renting. But I think that a nonprofit with day-to-day costs. I would love to have that have the funding be able to give us what we need to expand. My name is Omar Sharif, I was formerly involved in and this is how crime works. I was involved in gangs I'm grateful that I'm still alive, although I've come very close to losing my life inside of gangs. I've had a bunch of knives I've been stabbed twice in my right leg. I've had guns put to me. The structure of a gang is OK? You have the newbies You then have management. You then have senior management. I got involved in a gang when actually from selling sweets in school. I was approached one day by &quot;How would you like to make more money?&quot; And initially I knew what I was scared, but when he you know, you can be a man, you can provide for, help And when you come from and sometimes things are not easy, that kind of languaging &quot;Well, OK, can I actually do this?&quot; When you join at the age that I did, you're considered a younger. A younger is the street soldier. A younger is the person who just gets employed into the gang. As part of the gang we're to hold certain things, we're to make deliveries, You're told where to go, what to do, not to look into bags, It's just, you're a yes-man. And we look up to our olders. So our olders are the The ones that have the money, you know, at a time, that had the the gold teeth, the nice cars. In a gang, the older is but he is almost like middle management. So he takes control of what gets moved in and out of the area, who's selling what on certain streets, money management, distribution, and he'll have the -- he or They'll have the connections So it's kind of a chain of command. So they're the ones who normally even groom people into a gang. They're the ones who, and people get hit on, beaten up, sometimes kidnapped, sometimes threatened, it's the olders that they call. But I know from experience that even the olders, who we looked up to, they are speaking to people above them. I've seen people who are above the olders who look nothing like us, who don't sound like us at all. I can guess the jobs that they do, and they are very embedded into society, which was quite an eye-opener for me. Because I thought, even as it's only guys like me But actually, we're just So even our olders, who they're still the The people who are above the highest on the hierarchy, from what I understood, this couple, they were massive on the They were not involved but a lot of the money that came from the money that a the youngers like myself, would be making and passing up the food chain. It's scary to think that or you're speaking to a lawyer or you're walking into greater to someone that's quite high they have interesting habits on the side, or hobbies on the side, because I've seen it with my own eyes. The way that street gangs make there are things like kidnappings; there are hits, where to be hurt or killed; which I'd say is what you hear of or see most of day to Gangs normally have things Trap houses are places where where there could be stored weapons. Gang members will be living there or looking after the place, for example. And these are acquired So these could be places where squatters have been for a while. It could be someone else's And these are safe spots for the gang. So if anything happens, &quot;Right, meet us at the trap The address is never texted over a phone. It's never spoken over a phone. It's always told verbally, so there's no traces to where it could be. And if they're in the the police initially will, immediately will make a connection. Gang wars can start over the smallest things or the biggest things. Smaller things could be they and from there someone gets stabbed, and then it's a whole, we to send a message, we So they rang up everyone, and then it's now not just it's actually a gang versus And now we're talking It got to a point where we meaning it was my block, NW1, versus NW5. These gang wars started because people started to become greedy. People were looking for power. People were looking for, And also people wanted to rise up. Postcode wars are also This is something that started which areas became smaller or bigger. And it's a way of protecting territory. Now there are things called which are, even within the same postcode, there is such rivalry. There is such demand for So it goes from area, postcode, now to blocks, which creates further division. Years ago, there was, it seemed to be more of a reason as to because something big happened. Even recently, I was mentoring about 10 young boys from a school, and one of them said to another one something offends him about his mom. And that spilled out from school. And because it was filmed one of them actually There was a video of around, to me, like, 60 people having a fight. I could see weapons. I What are they fighting over? Essentially it's nothing, really. Those fights are not happening over drugs, not happening over a threat It's just two male egos that and it has to result in violence, and then sometimes even death. Although guns are easy to source, knives are still the bigger problem. We hear more deaths happening from knives than gunshots for sure. Maybe because the laws around Because they say if you carry a knife, you go to prison for four years. But then I hear people getting So people aren't really And nowadays, when you hear it's a younger against a younger. Olders don't get involved And these youngers are to get a hold of a gun unless or steal it from the For any under-18-year-old to get a knife, it's as easy as going onto Amazon and clicking something and it gets delivered. It's not regulated. I know even on Snapchat, there are accounts on Snapchat &quot;Hey, we have five machetes. We have five army knives attached to it. Who wants this?&quot; I've seen axes with chains. Why are they making these things? Why are they not asking for proof of ID? Some of them might say, &quot;You That has never deterred anyone under 18 to say, &quot;OK, ooh, I shouldn't do this.&quot; They don't know that by making that sale and then delivering it to that house, that young person goes They're part of that cycle. But they're so far attached from that. In the UK, there is a law around the size, the blade itself being less than 3 inches. and you shouldn't be carrying I mean, I've been stopped and sometimes I did have a knife on me, but I did have a foldable knife and I wasn't in a state of anger. So the guy said to me, actually, if he caught me and I then he would've arrested me. And that made me realize actually they don't have a correct Because I know so many, well, I knew so many guys who would carry bigger blades on them, And they'd be walking with those on high streets, for example. I've never heard of someone going to prison for carrying a knife. So, I grew up in Marylebone, which essentially is a However, there is a division, because there's one side of very nice mansions and That's not where I lived. I lived on the other side, it's block towers. Even though it's on our doorstep, we're brought up with a that we're not good enough for that. It's easy for anyone to be for many reasons. For young people normally, The other main reason is that belonging. It's having a family, having We don't go to private schools, right? We go to just public schools, and that's where it all starts. I didn't run to a gang and say, &quot;Hey, I want to be in I tried to go down the proper route. You know, I borrowed some I applied for 50 jobs when I left school, and no one said yes to me. If society's not allowing but there's a lifestyle The first thing they do is befriend you, is they welcome you in. So they make you feel a part of a family. The second thing is to spoil you somehow. You know, if they know you need money, they give you some money. If they know you're Then they test you somehow. They may ask you to They may ask you to be And normally they've set something up to get you robbed on purpose. They set you up in some because that's them checking in on, &quot;Oh, can we trust this person?&quot; It's really bad the way and actually love them as a family. But you're just a pawn in a bigger game. In a gang, it's almost a fantasy football team. Different strengths. Someone could be a good driver. Someone could be a good fighter. Someone could stab and not care about it. Someone could steal. So when I would say there are The No. 1 thing they look for is loyalty, but they also look at, how What can that person bring to the table? New gang members are recruited So the local recruitment is, I think, the priority for a gang, because they need to have numbers high. They need to have a on road doing certain things, a certain amount of people So, in the UK, we have And this is where a lot there's no more territory, so they're now thinking, &quot;All So county lines are where in smaller towns, smaller And they normally use So you may have heard which is going out of town, and they're facilitated by the olders. So the olders would have someone in place who may live in a smaller town. They may have someone who Train tickets, everything is They're given a budget, they give them money for They'll tell them to dress They'll give them a backpack, say, &quot;Look, don't open the Go here, wait here, or call The whole point of doing that &quot;Well, it's a young person. I think in some way, the not just on the rap scene. I know the drill scene came out, but also there's always For example, the USA, the Bloods versus Crips, that And that was a massive scene for a while. There was a period where So there was just the bandana, which represented which color That's really why we music videos become more grimy. We started to see more killings. We started to see more So, in the US, we have been going on for 30 I feel that in the UK, Here in the UK, you can And even within that block, it's divided. You know, from block to That's what I experienced, and nowadays I'm sure it's even worse. So the main difference for me But also, it seems that and more structure in the way I believe social media in the rise of gang violence because of the exposure that they get. I've interviewed a young person in prison, and he said the reason why he is because of songs that he'd listened to. He said he wanted to And I'm focused on young people because they're the vulnerable ones. They're the ones who aren't for themselves yet. I know for sure that there's going to be some collateral damage from these things. Because when you listen clearly, if you can understand what they're saying in these drill songs, it's scary. What's allowed to be sold and shared on radios for example, because young people will listen to that, and they want to replicate &quot;Ah, OK, he is now my role model, my idol. For me to be deemed as someone successful, I need to do what he's doing.&quot; For children to avoid it comes down to discipline for me. It's really understanding what I think the way gangs it's difficult, because it you know, to be stopped and And, you know, she cried at home, saying, &quot;Why do they think my son And I hated seeing her upset. But if I put their hat on, I think, &quot;Right, well, if we that looks like the criteria stereotype, we could find another weapon For me, that's the wrong who looks a certain way I think stop and search should because if you find one young person and he's carrying a knife that is foldable, they'll take it away, slap on the wrist, &quot;Have a good day.&quot; Next day, he'll go find from somewhere else, carry it again. Instead of creating or you should try and create a relationship by doing things like going into schools. I've always said that you If you want to police them, A brother of a friend of mine, a while back he was caught on the streets. He didn't have a lot of drugs and he was arrested and went If someone said to him, &quot;Hey, listen, we know what you're doing out here. How about we offer you an opportunity to earn money with us or And you've got to think of it like this: Prison is a business. Every single person that someone's getting paid. It's a good deterrent for some people, because some people might &quot;Well, oh, I know a friend of mine was carrying something and got arrested. I shouldn't do it too.&quot; But for the most people, it's not enough. In prison, there's more going This is what we don't There's people dying in prisons. The gangs are still doing I believe wealth inequality definitely contributes towards The way these gangs make their money, and also from personal experience, is through drugs, predominantly. If 90% of the money comes from drugs and you make it legalized, that there's going to be so either the gang will because now they've got an or it could destabilize them, because the second that companies hear, pharmaceutical companies and they're massive players. That will completely eliminate the gangs. So, will they have money to buy weapons? Will they have money to It probably wouldn't happen. For many young people who carry knives, one of the reasons, and was because we feel unsafe or we've heard about people being stabbed and we want to be able I don't think there's a quick fix to trying to make a The way to solve the issue isn't by fear, because that doesn't work. It's by reeducating them on the consequences of these things and actually giving people opportunity, showing people more love. These people that are involved in gangs, they did everything they did just because they wanted They didn't get love from home. They didn't get that affection at home, but when they did something, and that's what drawed One thing I know that's and that would still help in gang-led areas is the And these were places where come to the same building, play pool together, play And it was a place of safety. When you have something and have something that you care about, it removes the amount of It removes the amount of time Schools do have a big part And it works both ways, if you have a school that's in the middle of three areas that are then you have a big issue just like in prison, you have gang activity It will take a community or reduce gang violence and gang activity. But I think it has to be from all levels of society. If I have to look at London I can see the problem becoming deeper. I can see a culture which is being even more embedded into society. I think London gang like a standard for other There are young people who don't look at the seriousness of this. They They will see it as, it's a thing to be, just like I did when I was young. So, yeah. 10 years from now is a scary Trying to get out of a gang is one of the hardest things you can do. I didn't have a choice. It got to a point where I So leaving the area where I was from. I had to move to a different area. And this is because I'd seen people die. This is because I got attacked. I had been stabbed myself, there were two directions or there was being But it was in that moment of darkness where I realized I need I need to make a decision of what I'm going to do with my life. But it took me going and who were my olders and what I'm telling you right now on camera, is that I've had enough my mental health at the I wasn't able to speak to I wasn't welcomed. I was actually advised Because I was actually able I feel a responsibility to Since leaving the gang, my No. 1 priority was to work on myself to So right now I'm a mentor and a coach. As a mentor, I work with young universities, helping them helping them to make better decisions. And as a peak-performance coach, I'm working with individuals but also to help them understand There are definitely aspects of being around the gang activity that I do regret. But right now what I'm adults, and people in I wouldn't be able to if I didn't go through My name is Jay Dobyns. I'm a retired undercover federal agent, and I infiltrated the Hells Angels. This is how crime works. With all the hatred from me in that gang and from their supporters, they can take some satisfaction of that they ran right over the top of me. All that battle damage, the failed prosecution, all they ran right over the I was just a speed bump. I was part of the Hells which we named Operation Black Biscuit, from 2001 to 2003. I We were both ATF agents. My false persona, I went by the name of Jay Davis. The gang members knew me as Jaybird, and I portrayed myself to be a The Hells Angels don't have They want people that bring them value. I had spent some time as an associate of the Hells Angels, so getting to let them get familiar with me, and I was invited to the clubhouse. And the invitation, it as it was an order. They believed and that I was running guns So I was told that if I intended I had to come to their and basically have them I showed up at the Mesa clubhouse and was greeted in the street Some had guns, some had baseball bats. In Arizona, you can open carry firearms, and so I had guns that were exposed on me. Some of the members who as security told me you can't bring your guns That's not allowed. And I told them, I'm and I don't take them off for anybody, including the Hells Angels. You have people that you feel like you need to defend yourself against. So do I. If I allowed them to to me, it was never going to end. And at that point, one of the shot callers from and put his arm over my I make the rules, and you can So right off the bat, from that very first critical interaction, I felt like I was winning. The Hells Angels call themselves a club, the Hells Angels Motorcycle Club. There's charters, and within the charter, there's a president, a which is in charge of weapons When I was associated with which is where I started, their president was Bad Bob Johnston. And he was a very well-respected, feared longtime Hells Angel. If I could gain his trust, that his trust would be projected to other members and would open doors for me. In the biker gang, you The first step is that which is, you're just some time in the presence Once you build a relationship, the gang will ask you to hang around. Then, after you prospect, ultimately, hopefully you're doing that From the date of your prospecting from, when it starts, there's a And that's to some extent because they know that a cop and can't keep up with To be a full-patched Hells Angel, it is everything to those members. The patches that they wear and the formatting of their vests, is very important in this hierarchy. I was a hang-around for the Skull Valley, Arizona, So I had a black cut that had nothing but Skull Valley on the front. When you become a prospect, you get your bottom rocker, So when I was prospecting, I When you become a member, then you get your top rocker, or whatever the gang is, which, the Hells Angels' To get full membership, you have to be voted on by the and you have to receive a 100% vote. If one member of that charter votes against you, you're There's another rule in the land of prospects, is that Territory is very important The territory you control influences how much money you can They're constantly trying to acquire territories The rivalry that I became most aware of, or closest to, was the with the Mongols motorcycle gang. The Mongols were a I was at the 2002 Laughlin a major, major biker The Mongols' home base which was a short drive up the main Laughlin drag, Casino Drive, to where the Hells Angels' home base was, which was the Flamingo Hotel. Some Hells Angels went down to Harrah's and started poking and it was on. And it was I stepped outside of the Flamingo, and police cruisers and and police helicopters were all And I was with another agent, and I turned to him and I said, &quot;Well, I guess we know where Because the police response was massive. The Harrah's Casino riot, the Twin Peaks shooting in Texas, those biker clashes are We typically don't see it or hear about it until it takes place in a where just common man There were fights that I was present for, that I knew the rules, and I But at the same time, I some innocent civilian, get beat down. I would find the target and throw some legitimate punches on them. Like, I wasn't faking throwing good, hard, solid punches on the But in essence, what I was doing was I wasn't going to kill in the head, but they if they take a steel-toed I got a call from a Skull &quot;Get to the clubhouse right now, and bring all your hardware,&quot; I was told the Bandidos Las Vegas is our territory, and they have not requested a hall pass. We expect you to shoot them before they get the kickstands And here's the kicker: We're going to be watching If you don't shoot them, I was able to get in Joe Slatalla, and tell Joe Slatalla found this pack of Bandidos, pulled them to the side of So I showed up at the target location with but the Bandidos never showed up. In the eyes of the Hells Angels, all they knew is we sent Jaybird to Las Vegas to kill Bandidos, and dang it, he was there, I allowed the Hells Angels to in order to hopefully avoid that I knew were coming. In biker land, a mud check is a test to see if you're going to s--- your with a treacherous situation. So they would accurately see I would either receive or give or give money in exchange, by a Hells Angels, like, What they didn't realize is in the transaction with was who was playing the role of a drug dealer. The local police departments, the local officers, they I got stopped by the cops all the time. I got beaten up by the cops. I was never as good of a motorcycle rider as the Hells Angels were. They could perform tricks and do all kinds of crazy stunts that I couldn't do. And riding in a pack of Hells Angels, it takes an enormous amount of focus. You have to trust the person riding next to you, because they're so close. Like, one person makes a mistake in that conga line of motorcycles, I was told when you meet a Hells Angel and you got your sunglasses on, you better lift your sunglasses up and look that person in the eye. That member wants to see your eyes. I was told if I had riding gloves on, you better take your riding glove off when you shake hands with a Hells Angel. Never touch a Hells Angel's patch. Never slap them on the back. I made those mistakes and I was smacked for it on occasion. With regards to women, there's a hierarchy that There's old ladies who are the wives or girlfriends of You better not get caught trying to mess around with a member's wife or girlfriend, because there's But there's also women who, they move from member to member to member. Members can leave the gang of their Like, in essence, they can retire, and when they retire, They still have to relinquish all their Hells Angels property, they will come and take They will take back your in their eyes, and they'll I was a part and a piece of the process of those reclamations of Like basically, almost like the police doing a into a guy's house, and that said or looked like it The Hells Angels operate independently in their charters, as far as how they make money and how So there's charters that and that aren't involved There's others that are involved gun running, extortions, There's no payday or no salary to be drawn by being a There's no big universal bank There was Hells Angels members that I ran across that and putting those profits in their pocket and keeping at least the bulk And then they also, they have legitimate businesses that Just the swag and paraphernalia of the Hells Angels is a The Hells Angels hold toy runs and they conduct blood drives and that shouldn't be They make positive contributions to society with those things. Hells Angels parties could be as spontaneous as the drop of a hat. You could be at the clubhouse, music's blaring and guests are arriving and women are coming in They could be inside, outside. They happened at parks, campsites. There's a myth that every There was Hells Angels that took care of themselves. They ate well. They got their rest. They didn't drink. They didn't smoke. So to decline those a false alarm, a red flag against you. I have a tattoo of St. Michael on my arm and St. Michael is the patron It signifies good triumphing over evil. There was times when I got pressed, where I would show my St. Michael tattoo and say, do you understand what this is? I got this when I graduated from rehab. The reason why I'm here, the with me, is because I'm sober, because I have money in my pocket. All those things that As the infiltration on started winding down, we had two years under well over a million dollars and I still had not received membership. I still hadn't gotten my To be quite honest, selfishly, I was trying So I went back to one of those very early statements What happens if I cross I was told it's your So I went to the Skull Valley and I told them, &quot;I've got a We found this Mongol. I dug a shallow grave in the desert, took some What they didn't know is that The murdered Mongol was a that we had dressed up, concealed his face in the pictures, and then we'd used blood and guts from the butcher a crime scene. They made me a member there of the Skull Valley charter, Now, after the fact, they They denied that they believed it. OK, I understand that. They denied that I ever became a member. Both sides of that I was made a member of I was given a cut and told and that I was a member of Skull Valley. But I was also told because I was within the one-year that an international vote to accelerate my membership, Our case ended before the So so they're correct in that, too. I've never tried to hedge that. I've never tried to dance So the operation concluded We had a lot, a vast amount of evidence against our suspects, physical of tape-recorded conversation, In the end, we indicted 55 and 16 of those were indicted RICO charges. Some charges were dismissed. Some charges were reduced. In that discovery open-source process, the Hells Angels learned thought to be Jay Davis, the gun runner, the was actually Jay Dobyns, an ATF agent. And the threats against me and my family started stacking up. The Hells Angels held They were farmed to the Aryan Brotherhood. They were farmed to the MS-13 So all these people had their fingers on a murder contract for me. My family was in jeopardy, and in the summer of 2008, my In the process of this Hells Angels case, I abandoned and betrayed my family. I made this investigation my priority. My wife and my kids weren't. I was trying to be a and in the process I That's one of the things, is I built real human relationships. Not every second was spent in the middle of some criminal activity or doing something violent I spent time with members not violently or threatening Members slept at my house. There's human relationships and you can never undercover There's people you like. It's no different than any I wrote a book. It's titled, &quot;No Angel: My Harrowing Undercover Journey to the Inner Circle of the Hells Angels.&quot; Then, after I did that, and after I followed ATF's they ultimately sued me for the book. I coached high school football at the end of my career which I've got a lot of satisfaction from. That service before self, of young men and teach them My name is John Pennisi. I'm a former made member [screen buzzes] This is &quot;How Crime Works.&quot; [screen buzzing and Whirring] The biggest misconception and the people that are are people really believe loyalty, and respect. These three principles, which it no longer exists. Honor, loyalty, and by selfishness and greed. [screen buzzing and whirring] The rules for a member is and the rules of Cosa Nostra. And those particular rules are: You're not to put your hand You're not to go with or even girl, for that matter. You would need to be your mother and your your bloodline needs to be all Italian. But with every rule, there's an exception, and there has been people who slipped through the One of the rules is you shouldn't you should not sue people. And I know that there was a rule where you're not to get I'm not 100% sure if that's Specifically in New York, you were not to kill women and children or family members in the Mob. They were not allowed to such as bombs, because on the other side, in Italy and Sicily, they were known to use explosives to take out members during a war, or just to take a member out. They didn't want that kind So there's an exception to every rule. Frankie DeCicco, who was the underboss for the Gambino family, put under his car, and he was blown up as a result of that. The &quot;no drug dealing&quot; rule applies to all the Five Families, have drug-dealing Every family is going that are involved in the drug business and kind of turn a blind eye to it because it brings in so much money. Cosa Nostra members today have no problem breaking the rules on a daily basis, whereas in Carlo Gambino's era, you couldn't break the rules. Breaking the rules meant So all these rules that were put in place for reasons are now being broken. So when you have an organization that no longer follows its own rules, it weakens the organization. [screen buzzing and whirring] Before they created the Five Families, the head of each family So that's where they would And at some point, they broke and there was Five Families. So the Five Families in New York are the Genovese family, they were known as the Westside. That's how we refer to them. There's the Gambino family. There's the Colombo family And they're like the nucleus of Cosa Nostra for the United States. So as far as the Five Families they controlled the It wasn't only New York City. And then you have the which was the idea, who looked at it as a board of directors. The Commission consisted of the head of each of the families, and they would basically make decisions on anything that went on between them. Territories were divided, obviously, by what family represented It's kind of -- they But if it overlapped, would come in and make a ruling. [screen buzzing and whirring] So when they created the they set it up more like a military. From the bottom of that pecking order, you have the associates, who Anybody that's not a is considered a civilian. Above them are the made which are called friends. We call them friends in that life. Above them are captains. As we say, caporegimes. They're the head of the crews. The family is represented by all the crews that are in that family. And then above them are the The top of the administration is the boss, the underboss, and the consigliere. And that's the structure The word Cosa Nostra means &quot;Our Thing.&quot; And that basically of the Mob, or, as people belongs to them, the members of that life. [screen buzzing and whirring] The Mob picks you. That life, Cosa Nostra, picks you. You don't pick that life. So before someone becomes of a family, they become an associate. And usually how they become an associate is they're associated to someone who's already an inducted member. In order for an associate to be proposed, I think several factors take place. One is how good they get along with whoever it is that they're with, the soldier that they're with, you know, that they do what they're told to do. They keep their mouth closed. Once you're proposed, Who's conducting that a member or members of the administration. Along with them is going to be, obviously, the captain that's going A pistol and a knife are on and it's mostly there Your trigger finger, whether you are a righty Your blood is dropped on a It just symbolizes that the oath that you're about to take, you're taking it holding And they ultimately and you're moving that and you're repeating after whoever's conducting the ceremony. After which he is explaining [screen buzzing and whirring] My position within the Lucchese but there was times that in the capacity of an acting captain, specifically for a sit-down. The administration would pick The requirement to be a captain, obviously, would be good leadership, so they would have to see to feel that he could lead the crew. That captain is of the crew, but he's also responsible for all the associates that A consigliere position So, he is specifically handling not only internal what we would call beefs or struggles inside of the The difference between there's not a whole big difference with the exception of the title. Obviously, the boss is but the underboss holds in that family as the boss. Overall, a boss's position He's really in charge of everything that goes on underneath him, which goes through the administration, all his captains, all the all the way down to the associates. The way the life is structured, the boss is supposed to that the captains, his administration, the soldiers, and everyone A boss of a family or family together could bring in hundreds of There's many reasons to One, obviously, would be a One would be a boss passes away through health reasons, and, you know, there is a void in the position. But then, there's also reasons like in the Paul Castellano situation, a boss that they felt was being greedy and the family turned on the boss. There's different scenarios where a boss can be taken out, replaced for that matter. [screen buzzing and whirring] I think years ago, when the Five Families, there with having law enforcement on the payroll than as it is today. I think there's less of that going on, but that doesn't mean As far as political influence, obviously it would go in people's pockets for political favors. In present times, I don't the political power that they once had. I don't think they're able to corrupt the politicians as they were years ago. Initially, the Mob took They would put people in. Those people would corrupt the union, take over the unions, and that's how they were able to control most of the unions, But today, they have their in little areas, but they don't control the [screen buzzing and whirring] Cosa Nostra came to be in New York sometime in the early 1900s. This was an organization and structure that came from the other side, which means Italy, Sicily. When the immigrants from those countries came here to this country, the Italians were almost and they were discriminated So in the beginning, it But naturally, that turned into and criminal acts to gain a profit from. So when the average citizen of Cosa Nostra here, I believe that the first reactions were fear and intimidation. Because they feared and over this group of Italians, they were also fearful They were fearful to In turn, Cosa Nostra gained [screen buzzing and whirring] So I joined Cosa Nostra because I came from a neighborhood, both Ozone Park and Howard Beach, which was replete with guys in that life. And I believe that I looked up to them at that time and wanted If you are around people inducted members, at some And we were associated, my cousin and I, to the Gambino family And the time I'm talking about, I was around 14, 15 So sometime around 2012, and on record with the By 2013, I was an inducted I stayed an inducted member I ultimately winded up leaving the life because the family that I was a member of falsely accused me of being an informant when it wasn't true. They now were laying on me, which meant that they sent Usually when that is done, or B, kill you. I made my decision that to my former friends who turned on me. So obviously, my life has I'm no longer able to see my I'm not able to live as close I have to watch every and be very careful at what I do. And my plans have to be mapped out of where I'm going and what I'm doing. So my life took a big change. [screen buzzing and whirring] In my opinion, in 20 years from now, Cosa Nostra is hardly I don't believe that they're Cosa Nostra now, compared to years ago, has definitely declined. And the reason is these sentences that are being handed out, the government and specifically the FBI have unlimited funds. They're able to go after them. They're able to take out As far as earning money or doing various criminal than it was. So now, once you limit moneymaking and money earning, because money brings power, and the organized crime today than it was in years past. In the past few years, in arrests, and a large number Specific families are targeted, and the reason being is that it's hard for to operate without law enforcement, specifically the FBI, There are more people that They have people that are with the FBI, giving the FBI information. That's how they're dismantling families. Family by family, they dismantle them. Members of law enforcement now work very closely with members of law enforcement from people outside of the United States, They jointly create cases together. [screen buzzing and whirring] I made the decision to create a blog, and I started just writing So the first podcast I created is also the name of the blog, which is called &quot;Sitdown News,&quot; and that's all also the And I just recently called &quot;Unlimited Substance.&quot; My name is Jimmy Tsui. I have a nickname as Bighead. I'm a former high-level member of the largest triad, Sun Yee On. I decided to leave my life because I got sick and tired of it, and I almost got killed in 1992. I got shot five times. Do I know the person who shot me? Yes, I know the person who shot me. But I don't know why he How many triads in Hong Kong? I can tell you there's a lot of triads. Sun Yee On, 14K, Shing Wo, Shui Fong. My situation is a bit special I'm from New York. And in New York, I already have When I joined the Tung On a couple of former members in Tung On, they are from Hong Kong. When they in Hong Kong, they already are triad. So after they come to the United States, they still have a connection Because some things happened, 1985. Remember. OK? So, after I got out, the couple of members I mentioned before from &quot;Hey, Jimmy, you want to Maybe you can go outside because you were already I went back to Hong Kong with them. They took me to a restaurant, And then afterward, a guy come down, but he didn't look like He looked like a businessman. They never mentioned this So the leader asked me like, &quot;What you do in New York? What's your position in New York?&quot; And I tell him the whole thing. So he's saying that, &quot;OK, because I already on my under level, all the kids who follow me, they will become a Sun Yee On too. For the ceremony, there's a We have to swear a lot and we had to drink blood wine. And then the first thing, I will speak in Cantonese because I don't know how to The rule for the triad, the main rule is you obey You obey your main boss. There's only one main so you must obey him. And never against each other, and never steal money from each other, and never lie to each other, and never take girl from each other. My boss give me, as I remember, two, two nightclubs to collect which they call protection money. The shareholders must be, for the nightclub is our member. In America, you can say that's extortion, but they'd be willing to give out money for the protection in America. But in Hong Kong, you must be a shareholder and then you have your own I tell you -- honestly, I tell you -- we are there every night, at least 20 days a month. We got used to it, just like going to work. Just, like, every day OK, let's go to this nightclub tonight, let's go to that nightclub tonight. Every night is like that. For me, I got two nightclubs to collect. Every nightclub, they give So a month, I get, like, 40 grand, without doing something, But for the big ones, as 100 grand a month for each general. Back then, the triad business always production company, bowling alley. That's a legal business. And for the underground business, maybe money laundering, maybe drug money. They have business right In New York, in LA. They Back then, I can say, they have connections in Hong Kong. They all have connections in Hong Kong. The generals from the other group, they start a business of drug trafficking. Back then, it's very into United States. Maybe they have some They tell the girl to go back to Hong Kong and pick up something At that time, it's very easy. It's not like right now. When the time I'm in Hong Kong, the movie business, I can say that is all controlled by triad. If you don't listen to triad, Not even a spot. You don't listen to them, There's a movie star come &quot;I'm not a triad,&quot; whatever. You believe them. You believe them. OK. But for me, I don't believe them. A lot of famous movie they are triad members. A lot of people don't know. And we know. Every gangster got nickname because we don't want to use Easy to remember. I got big head, and my name's A lot of people are called Jimmy. So they won't forget, they They have a nickname for monkey. They have a nickname for They have all kind of nickname. They have all different kind of handshake, like different position. They have different kind of handshake. Sometimes you do this, and then you show with your hand sign, and then they know what's your position. Maybe the guy who you're and then you show him the and then he don't know because he's only a soldier, so he only can show the soldier hand sign. So if I show it, you're only a soldier, I don't want to talk to you. Tell your boss to come out, like this. They don't use that no more. The generation after the They don't care about this. They just care how many people you have, what kind of power you In Hong Kong, I'll never If I go to this nightclub, will follow me, go into nightclub. So they knew. They knew you're triad. We got experience. We can tell who's a triad, who's a cop, and who's a businessman. We can tell. For triads, they have a couple levels. But for Sun Yee On, the they are all controlled by one family. No other people can take their position. Every generation, they will pass down, like father and son, So it's all controlled After the top level, the We call it 426. After the 426 is the soldier. For the soldier, they call it 49. And after the soldier, that's the people who hang out but they are not a member yet. This is the main structure of the triad. Of course, they have a lot like white paper fan. That's the guy who This other position is for passing out the message. A special guy doing that. Now, at this century, a So only got left is the soldier, and the blue lantern. I only saw my boss in Hong But I know his family members. When I get to the general position, the boss will give you a couple places, like, couple of business places, for you to collect money every month. That's our salary. I just make sure they are they don't step out of the line. And that's what I did. If somebody step out of the line, OK, there's so many people in the group. So many people. Always, things happen, because you cannot control everybody. I never did that before, but what I heard, the worst thing, they got killed. That's the worst. If they did something against the company, against the group, they will get killed. After me, I have a couple of soldiers -- they are in the group for a long time, they have experience -- They are doing all the management. So this thing won't happen. But sometimes in the other groups, this thing did happen. That's what I heard. Hong Kong's really small, They all have their own district. Like, you control this part, and 14K controls the other part. But you know how the gangster is. They always want to increase their power. So they step in. The district is controlled and the war could've stopped. When I was in Hong Kong, I saw another general in Sun Yee On, they have something going They start a war. They want Yeah, I saw that before. But this always happened Back then, in Hong Kong, but they don't use gun. They always use knife, because in Hong Kong the Even though they have a gun, they're hardly going to bring Almost impossible for people to get a gun license in Hong Kong. When the time in Hong always the gangsters from They bring the gun from China, then they use it in Hong Kong, and then they ran back to China. But for the original members in Hong Kong, they hardly use the gun. OK, maybe the lower-lower-level guy, but not the general. And if a fight starts, only the soldiers who start the fight. If we saw something and we know the war going and then the soldier forward. Our different triad members, they are together doing It's money talk. Easy, it's money talk. With one general, he thinks and he want to share or share out with different Hong Kong is real small, I tell you. So you have to friend Back then, in Hong Kong the whole prison is run by the triad. The triad got more power than In the '60s and '70s, all the police was corruption, They worked together. Until now, no. The impossible. You can't. It is very strict right now. You do something they don't like, you will disappear forever, and people cannot find you. And you are not facing jail I decide to quit my gangster life. I got shot five times, and after that, I say, &quot;No more.&quot; I got sick and tired of that, because I'm getting old. The So I want to return to my I know the person who shot me, but I don't know why he Afterward, I found out. Because my soldier, under me, who, people under me shot their member two weeks ago. So they know I'm the general of them. So he shot me. At that time, I was at home, So I have to go down and try to buy a cigarette in the grocery. When I closed my driver's-side door and I check out the side mirror, I saw someone came out from a car behind, and then he started to shoot. And then the ambulance come, like, after at least 15 minutes, as I remember. They brought me to the Elmhurst Hospital, and they do a surgery, and then the doctor come by and tell me that, &quot;We and there's still a So I asked him, &quot;Why don't you And he was telling me that, &quot;Because that bullet is so that bullet's going That's what the doctor says. What do I have to do to leave? Actually, nothing. I just tell my soldiers. Because I have couple of soldiers, who control all the kids already. I just tell them that, starting the gambling house money, whatever, I'm going to give up everything. You guys take care of and anything happens, Even though after I left, I start working, and the FBI come to me, ask me questions. I say, &quot;I don't know In the '90s, the FBI, all the leaders, all the gangsters got arrested Without our help, they cannot stand in the United States no more, and then they back off and now disappear. The first beginning of Hung Mun. Hung Mun is the first one. After that, they split out from Hung Mun to all separate triads. They call it triad for in the southeast area. So inside that area, they Government people, they call them triad. And then they start to Sun Yee On in Hong Kong almost in all the Southeast Asian area. At my time, they have, and all over the world. They have a pretty long history. For all the high-level they become a businessman now. They doing each business. All underground. It's only for the lower-level members. I was born in 1965 in Hong Kong. I born in the district called Yau Ma Tei. Inside Yau Ma Tei, there's a At that time, the whole street So when I was real young, I And my father saw, like, I getting worse, my behavior's getting worse. So he decide to immigrate the whole family to the United States. At that time, there's a in Chinatown. Always waiting like after school. They try to do something to us and try to scare us and If we don't, we have to for protection, but we keep refusing them. One of my classmates, he told us that we should go look for and he's the leader of the Tung On gang. My classmate got killed they thought my friend but which that time we are not. So we asked Clifford Wong &quot;You guys just joined our gang.&quot; So officially we joined the Tung On gang. I'm stuck in Tung On When I become a member So I was already in the gang life for, like, eight years already. We have a channel on YouTube, We started telling the true We want to do the best we can to find every former gangster member, no matter what level they so that the world knows I just want to say that, don't trust anybody except your parents. Don't trust any movie story. You are not a hero in the gang life. If you're really in the only two final ways out. First, you go end up in Second, you're going to get killed. My name is Mike Moy. I was a former member of a Chinatown gang. I later became an NYPD cop. And this is how crime works. You had so many guns that's secret tunnels, and you have A crazy person wouldn't even because even a crazy person, they feel pain, they fear death. So, as far as being in a Chinatown gang, you're either going to wind up in jail or it's going to be some outcome that's not going to be good. So, I was only 16 when I joined the gang, and it was one of the during that time. There In the 1970s, the Ghost those were the two main gangs. Eventually, you had the White the Fuk Ching, the Green The violence between the gangs, I wouldn't say it's because of territory. I would say it's because of respect. Any form of disrespect warrants Remember, these kids are young. 13-, 15-, 16-year-old kids. All they want is for people Maybe it's because they're or they have low self-esteem. It's all about respect. And a lot of people died When we were in a gang, most of us at one time or another had some sort of interaction Even I, myself, in my early 20s, was dealing with guys But these Italian, young they're the ones who were a problem to us. And there were some shootings where some of our guys They'd walk around with and want to be tough, and they didn't know who they were messing with You know, we felt like we were invincible. During my teen years, street robberies, petty But then as I got older, got into my 20s, started selling marijuana, credit-card fraud, stolen credit cards from a source that we I opened gambling houses. A gambling house that we right next to the Rosemary We would have poker They would put the Sometimes we'd have poker tables, pai gow tables where we So that was one of the most profitable business I had. And also bootleg videotapes. Back in those days, the VCR tapes, those Shaw Brother kung fu movies, they made me a lot of money too. All we had to do was get a bunch of VCRs and copy those tapes. So we're talking about the, probably the '80s and '90s. After the Italians lost in the &quot;Pizza Connection&quot; trial, yeah, there was a vacuum The Chinese were able to import high-quality heroin into Chinatown. They dominated that Just imagine how much money during those days in I mean, you had cab drivers, waiters, waitresses benefiting from all that money. Even factory workers. Because the gangsters into Chinatown. Yeah, they extorted from the stores, but they weren't out out of business, how All the business in Chinatown was flourishing during that time. Look at Chinatown back It's open 24 hours. You get the gang members during the Chinese New Year's, and the owner's going to give It's just a little piece Less than what they probably pay for the garbage disposal, right? To the Italians. You know, we did protect the neighborhood. And I even have personal experiences protecting the businesses, you know, doing what I needed to to protect the business by people who didn't even know better. Some of those people remember The person that you least that's the person that's carrying the gun. So, when we travel in a group, for example, we go into a pool there'll be a kid in the watching over us, and that's There could be a targeted hit where, OK, you're going to go get this yes, but a lot of times you can't control what they do. And it was very easy to get I know in the '70s they had getting guns from the Italians. In the '80s and '90s, to go out of state and buy a gun. Just show your ID in a flea market, and you just buy a bunch of antique guns. Safe houses are located all over. We had safe houses in Brooklyn, by Williamsburg, one by Midwood; Queens, by Woodhaven. So we had several places At any given time, there 10, 15 people in that apartment, sleeping there, living there. We kept it very low-key. A side entrance, so it doesn't appear to be a So the runners will go out there and buy whatever's necessary, whether it's food or drinks, whatever they need. Generally, the police wouldn't What they care about are guns. But luckily we hid our guns in a way where the One of the ways what we did was, we were on the second floor, so we would tie it in a string and lower it down to the first floor. So all you see was a string on the floor. But who would expect when there's a gun there? And so many secret tunnels and As far as the tunnels, you Bayard Street, Canal Street, Pell Street, Doyers Street. These places. Those tunnels was used After you do a shooting, and just come out from the That's why there's so many I was 16 years old when I joined a gang. I saw it as a way to During my years in school, So I was a victim of bullying. How did I become a member of the gang? Initially, I started and when they started to trust me, they know I was able that's when I got accepted. And they would give you a and say, &quot;Hey, you have a big head, so we're going to call you Bighead.&quot; Onionhead nickname came The newspaper and journals claimed that Onionhead's nickname came from, &quot;If you betray him, he'll give you tears. That's why they call him Onionhead.&quot; But that is not true. He with his haircut back in those days. They tried to give me a nickname. I put a stop to it. I'm I like to stay under the And I was firm about it, But what they call me behind And we did a initiation ritual together with two other members. We kneeled down and we lit up the incense. We poured wine in front to give him an offering. In the wine was our blood. We pricked our fingers. After the initiation, we felt a certain bond, like a brotherhood. What the Italians would we would call liang chai. What the Italians would we would call them ma chai. Like, a captain, a dai ma. Underboss, that would be a dai lo, which is big brother. The leader, dai lo dai. And that would be the guy at the top. So, how does one become a dai lo? Start out as a soldier, and if you have the qualities of a dai lo, such as the gift of gab, then you'll have these kids following you. You spend money on them, you become a dai lo. The dai lo would give That goes to pay for everything food, expenses, the safe The money trickles down to us, unlike the Italians, where They have to pay for our loyalty. What we do in the streets, we basically enhance their reputation. A lot of people have tongs, triads, and gangs It's not. The tongs were former who later tried to become a legitimate enterprise the new immigrants But you have a handful of bad apples that associated themselves with the gangs, and they used the gangs The Flying Dragons was under the Ghost Shadows was under and the Tung On gang was The Flying Dragons had Doyers Street, and later on they moved on to Canal Street and Grand Street. The Ghost Shadows had control The White Tigers went to Queens, Elmhurst. Later on, the Tung On gang was created, and they took control of East Broadway. Do the Chinatown gangs still exist today? Yes, they do, but they A lot different than what I grew up with. There isn't a dai lo, so to speak. There isn't a big leader, like how we had. They keep it totally underground. Back in those days, we dealt crimes that warrant the The NYPD didn't have the resources to take on the Asian gangs. They didn't even have the translators available to translate. They were just there to help the FBI. But it was the FBI that It was around 1993. The FBI started rounding and that's when it started falling apart. The people at the top So the people at the bottom Most of the gang members or they were killed or in prison. That's when I made the transition. And in order to make that it had to be like a light switch. It was like a on-and-off switch. It was either all or nothing. You know, I grew up What happened to Steven he forgave the kid who shot him. And when Steven McDonald mentioned that this kid was a product of his environment, did a lot of self-reflection, and I see that how I grew up, it made me who I am, and maybe I need to change. So I joined the NYPD in 1995. But the gang was always there When I took the oath, I I was assigned to work in Chinatown. So. I didn't expect to be my old stomping grounds as a gang member, and that was a little bit nerve-racking, because what would happen if I bumped into my rivals or my fellow gang mates? And it did happen. I bumped I bumped into my former Even when I was assigned and I got promoted many years later, some of these guys came out from prison, and I was assigned to arrest them. Some of them couldn't make a living, so they started doing home robbing stores and taxi cabs and whatnot. They started getting involved with different type of rackets now. They didn't get involved because the feds were watching that. So they got involved with other things, like the transportation the bus going out of state. They still did their gambling houses, and the prostitution houses As opposed to back in those days, where you would go into and you would see 10, 15, even 20 girls. So what they did was they broke it up into, like, an apartment, and they would only have The gangs were operating Nobody wanted to call I love the NYPD. NYPD gave me everything I It's just that I had a bad experience while working with some That left a bad taste in my mouth. So it was time for me to leave. I left July of 2021. After over 26 years, called Chinatown Gang from former gang members who lived a life. Because there's a lot of A lot of the information Movies, authors, and documentaries. My channel will give you of what really happened in What did I learn from being Between social media, cellphones, and plate readers, DNA, facial recognition, Big Brother's watching everything you do. So there's no place in today's society for gangs anymore.