(nice jingly curious music) - One of the most intriguing artifacts from Paleolithic Europe are perforated batons. They are found across and date to between 40,000 roughly, rough dates, an absolutely huge span of time roughly coinciding with the For a long time, archeologists have wondered what they were used for. Were they symbolic? Or were they practical, a tool to help people Let's find out. (jingly curious music continues) This whole video began the other day when I got an email from one of you guys: &quot;Hi, big fan of yours here. I just wanted to let you know about a recent article I and many of us fans, I'm sure, would love a video of you to the perforated batons mystery. Cheers, Victor.&quot; You are absolutely right, Victor. It's a great topic, so huge shout out to you I know a bunch of you and you're all a bunch of legends. (car booms and you dive out the way like a boss) &quot;Rope Making in the More than 35,000 Years Ago,&quot; this new paper came out in January. It's a really great study. I had to email one of Professor Nicholas Conard, right away to get to the bottom of this. - So, where I am in Germany, ya know, I can look out my window and look into the Neckar Valley, and for me, it's super easy to imagine, you know, the woolly and the lions and just how people were getting their how you would survive in the and all of those things, to me, seem relevant. It seems like part of our history. - In his paper, coauthored Nicholas describes this excavated from Hohle Fels. Situated in Southern Germany, Hohle Fels is one of the most in all of Europe, probably Archeologists have recovered female figurines, musical instruments, mysterious oblong artifacts (wink wink) whose, uh, use escapes us, all sorts of incredible and Nicholas has been Southern Germany, in particular, to study the Paleolithic, so many great finds. Lion Man was from there, too, and this baton is another - August 15th, 2015, we found There were about 13 pieces It had to be glued back together, but it was largely intact and it was by far the best-preserved ivory perforated baton we've ever found or that's ever been found anywhere. - Perforated batons are typically I have an antler lying around actually. Yeah, so a perforated out of a piece of antler, like this. Drill a hole somewhere around here, maybe where the antler - And for the first time, we found a really beautifully made from mammoth ivory, and that got my attention. I called Veerle Rots, who is my partner for use wear and studies of and one main question we had... Well, first we have a But what was it used for? (camera beeps) - Guys, I enjoy imagining but I don't want to smell Just want to say thanks to Scentbird for sponsoring this video. Scentbird, for those who don't know, is a monthly subscription service for cologne, perfumes, fragrances. They send you about a 30-day supply of the cologne. Now, my experience shopping for cologne is basically buy a large and then use it for the next 18 months and smell exactly the same every day, and I don't love that. I would like to be a guy can, you know, mix it up for This one is Roja Elysium. Let's give it a go. (Roja hisses) This one is kinda... Citrusy and peppery is the notes. Very summery, very tennis club, smells like I just smashed This is another one I Obviously, I am a dad, so (Padre hisses) &quot;Leather and sandalwood.&quot; &quot;Leather and sandalwood.&quot; Smells I can't, but now I could You know the Lion Man in the Paleolithic? This is what they would be wearing, okay? That's a manly smell. If you're interested in trying Scentbird, scan the QR code, or use the link below, and with my coupon code, Stefan, you'll get 55% off at Scentbird, plus you'll get free delivery Just $8 for cologne, that's a great deal. That's a bargain. That's a steal. Huge thanks to Scentbird Back to these batons. Were they cologne dispensers? (camera beeps) In the past, perforated batons were often because their use isn't unlike an axe or something, right? It doesn't immediately jump out to you what this thing could be used for. Some archeologists in the past wondered if they were, like, a badge of office. - For instance, Gustav Riek, at the nearby site found one with two holes and he said it was a gorget, right? - A gorget was a piece of medieval armor that went around your neck, but over time as the medieval battlefield went away and the medieval knight was replaced by early modern armies and the gorget gradually became this, like, regimental badge, this symbol. Here's actually a picture of George Washington wearing in his rather dashing wearing a gorget. - But you know, that's to go from the Napoleonic - That opinion, I don't how common it is, but to be honest, Nicholas and most archeologists, that this object was practical. - And the other explanations of, you know, a symbol of power, I can't really get too far with that. And one thing Veerle and I both thought was that it looked much than a symbol of power or an artwork, so we were both on the same page: &quot;This is probably something practical.&quot; - One of the really interesting features of this baton from Hohle Fels if I pull it up here is that it has four holes, which is quite rare. Often, one or two is much more common. And they also have these spirals To Nicholas and Veerle, this is a big clue to their function. - Veerle Rots and I both thought, &quot;Well, this is used for something,&quot; and we thought, with the it had to have something to do with feeding something through the hole and pulling it out the other side. And the grooves in you know, we came to the conclusion, were probably to orient through the hole and rotate it and put And there aren't that many things you could put through a hole, and we pretty quickly came if you put plant fibers or some and they get twisted, that you might be able to use it to make twine or rope or combine small pieces of rope - Veerle and her team analyzed of this artifact. They never clean them 100%, because that information The dirt and grime inside They found tiny, microscopic These obviously could've so they tested the sediment that was recovered from and they found much more plant than from the sediment just around it. So, that is a positive piece of evidence that plant fibers were connected The only thing left to do, really, was make a replica and give it a go. (mouse clicks) - And they keep twisting. And then the person holding the and the stuff... And it sticks together. You have to tie off, where the... That is Grizzly. His name's Christian. And if you tie that off and keep pushing, it just twists up together, and if everyone twists and, at the same time, and pushing it forward you know, just regular people can make five meters a very strong rope in about 10 minutes. So, you can- that's very quick actually. - Yeah, yeah, you could- - No, you can see in the video. It's not that hard, and the rope's super strong. (funky but curious whistle tunes) - Now, does this prove definitively that perforated batons Probably not, probably not, and that's not the argument that Nicholas and Veerle are making. They are simply saying that this particular baton If Paleolithic people needed this would be an excellent option. Some perforated batons found in Britain from a site called Gough's Cave... These only had one hole, which, as I said, is much more typical, but they also had the and it seems like they were broken under a lot of stress, a lot of pressure. Again, that, to me, suggests that they could be involved Something is putting a lot - If you count... I haven't done it, but I know there are a We're not talking about, We're talking about hundreds. And so, these are things in many contexts: in the in the Magdalenian. And it's not chance. They were definitely good for something. - There's another really of perforated batons, from Italy. They were found in the grave of a young chap archeologists because he was buried with a huge amount of This chap was laid to rest with an elaborately knapped flint blade, shells either braided into his hair or perhaps worn as some sort of cap, and four perforated batons. Again, it's so hard to say for sure, but I really wanted to ask Nicholas what he thought of this burial. As I'd studied it a lot; I know many of you have seen I had to ask him what he thought of this burial with these four batons. Do you think that their inclusion suggest that these are - I think the answer to that question &quot;'some way important?' definitely.&quot; - Yeah. - I'm a little hesitant to say, &quot;Well, the Paleolithic grave where you get on your ship of the dead and you need everything that for the other side, in the nether world or I'm a little hesitant but I can certainly imagine that, if you find a burial associated with multiple well, one that's kind of intriguing. To find a group of perforated batons, that sort of suggests maybe you don't only and it suggests that is something you might wanna have with you wherever you're going, right? And if you find hunting equipment, then maybe, wherever you're going, you might need to be hunting, or maybe you'll need or whatever these tools were used for. Maybe if you find equipment whether it's rope making, maybe the person used to do this regularly in her or his own life. - One interesting question to ponder is &quot;what were they using these ropes for?&quot; I'm sure, if you are outdoorsy like me... I'm basically, pff, Tarzan, basically. I only come inside the otherwise, I'm just in the woods 24-7, (laughs) not really. But I'm sure, if you're outdoorsy, you can think of 100 reasons - [Narrator of old documentary] More snow - Traps, fishing nets, having a strong rope could've in so many ways. One idea I had whilst I after I spoke to Nicholas was connected to moving food, right. The baton from Hohle These people are living in the ice age. There's mammoths around. There's woolly rhinos around. They are killing, hunting, How do you get that much food home? Let's say you've killed a Are you gonna go back to every time you need it? You're probably not. You're probably gonna butcher it and move it closer to So I had a little Google search for modern hunting groups that were still catching And I came across this from the turn of the last century, of family of Inuit people moving a walrus probably in a relatively to how the people in very cold dry landscape. Obviously, in Germany, they're not living close to sea ice, but still, moving this walrus is clearly a whole-family affair, dragging it, using these I can't help but imagine: were Paleolithic people when they hunted a mammoth, You've gotta get it home Maybe they didn't drag an But can one person pick up a mammoth's leg, an elephant's leg, and carry it a mile or Probably not. I think not. (laughs) I don't think I could. I think I'd much rather and get my kids to help drag it. I dunno. I dunno. It's just an idea. I have no way of proving it. These are just hypotheses, right? It's very difficult to rewind the clock 35,000 years and speak with confidence about anything that was happening, but if people in Paleolithic Europe needed a strong rope and they needed a tool to this perforated baton from Hohle Fels would be an excellent tool to do that. And probably, other perforated would also be an excellent tool. You know, considering the length of time that they were used if they had a specific ritual function that would be a long time to You know, it seems more likely that it would have a practical purpose. But who knows? Who knows? It was a very long time ago, (breathe in of contemplation) and humans are exceptionally creative. I'm sure, if we could rewind the clock, we'd be absolutely amazed at what people in the - I always think of this quote from John Shea at Stony Brook. He always said, &quot;The easiest way to be wrong is to underestimate them.&quot; - Hey, everyone, thanks for watching. Hope you found it interesting. Huge shout out to Nicholas I just wanted to point out I am aware of the contradiction, in favor of a Neanderthal ritual site and, this time, I argue against ritual and favor a practical interpretation. It's the dichotomy of man. I can't help it. Sometimes, we make a cheese sandwich. Sometimes, we build the Taj Mahal. It's just our biggest