Somewhere in the ballpark a group of fish went and tried living and changed the course of Those fish were the ancestors that live on land, including us. So naturally, scientists are the details of this evolutionary transition. But there's a problem. There's a period of several million years and it happens to coincide with the time So at a point in Earth's history to look at the fossil record, [ INTRO] Long before humans or dinosaurs there was the Devonian Period, And as you may have guessed, There were placoderms with bony armor, early sharks with their cartilage the lobe-finned fish, whose fins And among those lobe-finned fish were the These included fish like Tiktaalik, which had bony fins capable of That sounds like not that big of a big deal, there's no real separation between head and torso. And it turns out that both these strong without moving the rest of your body want your descendants to live on land someday. They're early steps in the process, so to speak. That said, Tiktaalik was decidedly They were land-curious, at best, but shallow water, dragging their But by the end of the Devonian some later fish species were just Like Acanthostega and Ichthyostega, which both looked kinda like big salamanders. They both had four bony limbs and had a bunch of fingers Kind of like us! But even if they did have feet these were still primarily aquatic animals. Their legs were short and paddle-shaped, and they had gills, all of which is And if we fast forward to the 30 million years later, we find that are really well adapted Their skeletons have a lot in but they also have four strong legs that could support the bodies, no buoyancy needed. We know that there must have been in between those Devonian fishes But the fossils that show it all happened were missing for decades. There was a big empty space in the fossil record, right at a time where we the most important animals Those early tetrapods were the so we really want to know more about them! Paleontologists have been complaining about this gap in the fossil record for The first person to notice it was a who lamented the lack of fossils way back in 1956. He noted that between 360 there were almost no known fossils And since he was the first one to write it down, this gap became known as Romer's Gap. Of course, gaps in the fossil since the odds of anything actually It's like winning the lottery, Plus, not all organisms and For example, hot and humid nearly as well as cold and dry ones do. And fossils are also more likely to So, paleontologists just have to the fossil record can be extra certain time periods, or But Romer's Gap is an especially It's a really long gap that seemed and it's during a time period really exciting was happening on land. One of the big questions See, we know which things had to change walk on land: strong limb bones, a without water, and the ability to breathe air. That's a big one. But without fossils of the we can't know which of those things came first, or what the intermediate steps looked like. We also would love to know what ecosystems and just how fast they made it from water to land. None of which we can figure And there's even been a question of or if something else was at play See, Romer's Gap starts right The Devonian Period ended with a drought, and rapid sea level change that This event devastated populations including the armored placoderms And certain research identified in the wake of these environmental disturbances. This led to the hypothesis that a harsh place for air-breathing animals, wait until conditions improved before they If this were true, it could mean that Romer's Gap wasn't just a fluke in the fossil record. Paleontologists might not have found because there just weren't nearly This is an intriguing hypothesis, but as Because we've started finding the missing fossils. Thanks to Babbel for Babbel is one of the top offering 14 different languages lessons designed by real language teachers. You can learn through a variety of practical conversations about travel, Wouldn't it be cool to say to your Well, with lessons that are only right on your phone or tablet, you'll be able And your pronunciation will Before you leave for Italy, this Fall and start having real And if you decide Babbel is they offer a 20-day money-back guarantee. More importantly, you can get up to 60% by signing up using the link in the description! As it turns out, the solution to Romer's Gap was that we just weren't looking in the right places. But over the past few decades, new filling the gap and completing our picture It started in the 1990s, about Paleontologists identified and Nova Scotia, all of which Then, in 2002, a paleontologist described an exceptional fossil from Scotland named Pederpes. It was originally misidentified as a fish, but further examination revealed one of the earliest known tetrapods. So technically still a fish, but in Pederpes was discovered in of the Ballagan Formation, dating smack in the middle of Romer's Gap. And it does have some features Devonian fish Ichthyostega, like But the proportions and are much more like those land-dwelling So Pederpes was a monumental find. Not only did it partially fill in the famous gap, it also revealed some of the earliest evidence of tetrapod adaptations for walking on land. And a few years later, in 2004, Romer's Gap tetrapod, this one It was named Ossinodus, and it was and walking, meaning it in the transition to, well, walking on the ground. By 2012, researchers considered but there were still around 15 million years that were totally unrepresented in the record. And since then, paleontologists within the remaining gap - not just new species, but entire ecosystems full of early tetrapods. A site called Blue Beach in Nova Scotia, Canada, preserves a rich ancient ecosystem from The fossils there are a mix of more as well as walking animals more like There are even fossil footprints, they were finding walked on dry Blue Beach is a snapshot of where some of the earliest walking tetrapods lived side-by-side with This site, with its rich assemblage of tetrapods, also provided a major rebuttal to prevented these animals from becoming And there's another site that dates to within the gap called Willie's Hole, in Scotland. Excavations at Willie's Hole have of early tetrapods, with even more A 2016 study described a tetrapod from It had slender legs, as well as foot and hip bones that look more like those early tetrapods. And another one called Mesanerpeton got us yet another step closer to having the full picture. The upper arm bones of in a way that's similar to what That twist helped these animals take longer steps, which makes for more efficient walking. So the structure of Mesanerpeton's than their earlier fish cousins, but not they're an intermediate form. These new discoveries aren't just bridging and our fishy ancestors, they're also Which is why it was so right in the middle of Romer's Gap. Fossils from sites like Willie's Hole were already diversifying in the early Which means that the Devonian mass extinction didn't keep early tetrapods down, and When the other species all died some open spots for some entrepreneurial With all these new fossils, it seems Romer's itty bitty crevice, never got to see the gap shrinking. But for modern paleontologists, each at a formerly mysterious time period, how our distant ancestors made the So future researchers will no [ OUTRO]