Just like the first will travel to their own for treasure. May the best find win. Today is Metal Detector 2. Woo. It's time to detect. We're at the lake and we're finding treasures. The adventure starts now. You'll see where we're Eli, take us airborne. Welcome to my backyard. I'm in the great state of Ladies and gentlemen, Chad, get over here. Sometimes the best finds, Just have to find it. There's no rulebook so I am going to find More specifically, my We're here at a world where thousands and thousands come every summer. I'm going to go ahead and So I decided to take the Sea There is no thrill metal detecting in and you hear that first beep. OK. A great start. Have a personalized First island, first find. Kept looking for beeps, and Bottle cap. Bottle cap number two, baby. Bottle cap. All right. Here's the ring. Shouldn't take me too long. Let's metal detect. When I'm looking for gold, I That's why I brought in Jerry. He is a contract miner. He's going to be giving If this was the first I mean, I get it. But this is a sequel. This is a second one. I decided to go big. [ROCK FALLS] What just happened? I don't know. I literally think Day started good. Decided to come This is a first, and I like it. Cory, I heard, is The lazy river is the gold mine. First find of the day lighter, Not amazing, obviously, can add an item to your Chad. Oh, look over-- oh my My heart is pounding Oh. I have an idea. Let me see if I have I don't know what if we hear a beep down there. Check this out. [BEEP] We got something, baby. We've got a metal strap. $2, $3 at a local I think something that, if with you guys, scared me a Couple of days ago, in so this whole with two great big rocks. Here's the thing, have to know when to A lot of spiders, and potentially The Ring girl. So we're going to move on. We just had a I think it's actually That's coming right for us. And that falls under the What a beautiful day. We're headed to Checked out the mine, got We're going to go up top, hit and pan for gold. Started detecting, had really But reality set in. I'm finding cans, that a curved piece of metal. Fail after fail after fail. It's a phone. I love this place. Let's head to the creek bottom. Woah, that's cold. We're just finding trash, after humanity in this creek. At the bottom-- I say bottom We were at the bottom. This has just turned into a no Jerry, tell me if I'm wrong. Nope, it's a piece of mica. No. No, Jerry. Just flaking apart. Gold won't do that. Cut the camera. [BEEP] [THUNDER CRASHES] OK. Time to go. Have we lost our minds? This is no longer This is about survival. Near-death experiences and that's why Chad and I will [HANDS CLAP] That's going to be a powerful This was so dumb. [SCREAMING] [BIRDS CHIRPING] Not bad. Hold on. This is it. [SCREAMING] Honestly, not a bad necklace. I don't know what it I am the king of All right. It's time to find a ring. That's weird. I thought it would You know, it's at this point would probably call it quits. Not this treasure hunter We got out there and we of the entire day. Maybe the entire video. Pretty big hole to find a nail. Piece of wire. [BEEP] Probably another nail. And Chad nailed it. I say that not knowing what the It's got to be top five, though. 100% top five. For the sake of the video, are finding some treasure. After panning for I don't know Let it do all the then we come down here and-- oh my god. This is gold. Where? Point it out. Oh, oh. Oh my god. Jerry, get over here. Oh my god. Jerry. Did I just find gold? Oh, yeah. Yeah. That's a little-- they Yes, I found a picker. Why? Because I can pick it out? You can pick it Because I can pick it up. Woo. We found gold. Just sharing a peanut Just get here quick, man. Sun's going down. Minute that beep knew that that was something Oh, my. VHF marine transmitter. Kind of a weird hobby, but, Yee-haw. My second big find of the day. I'm not going to freak out again And I'm thinking what to my collection right here. This is not detectable but the judge, hopefully, Looks like a decoration, An old grandfather clock piece. Metal shark tooth. Never thought I'd find Search this part of the yard. You're looking for It's, I don't know. A small missile? Could be worth millions. I'm starting to feel like 2 is in the bag. I just found a bullet. Do you think that's The stories that that We're bringing back some and I'm pretty proud of them. My wife's going to kill me. After searching, each Dude Gentlemen, welcome home. Hope you enjoyed your Just like last time, we have Metal Detector. Wow. Ladies and gentlemen, let me Mr. Milliger, thank How long have you been a PMD? It was a calling Anyways. I say we take our seats Starting with one, of effort put into Quantity is not always better. I mean, it could be a huge shark Not sure. Two, not doing so great. I'm not a geologist, so have And this group can't And it might be gold. Like I said, I'm Four has an old That's definitely going Walkie-talkie, propane. Whoever brought this in not After my professional I think you're disqualified. [CLAPPING] When you guys are done, I need I've got to find my Oh my god. [LAUGHTER] No. Hey, you dirty scoundrel. Wrap this up quick. For fourth place, I'm [CLAPPING] See yourself out of What if it's a real It's not. It's definitely not. See yourself out of I see the effort, a because there's no value. No value. I'm sorry. You forget about You didn't even pick this up. It looks like a It does. That's what I said. [LAUGHTER] OK. So as much as I hope and I am just not sure-- and the winner of Metal Boom. Are you kidding me? That's gold. That's real solid gold. I flew to Colorado. This works great. Add some batteries. Yeah, absolutely. Party favor. It's not my honor, or Here you go. Metal Detector 2. One clap. That's all it gets. By the way, PMD, Mr. Milliger, that Cory actually found gold. Too late to change it. Thanks for watching. If you're not click down here so you don't Summer tour. If you've not got your half the shows are Click here for your tickets. Also, if you want to see the Signing off for now. Pound it. Noggin. See ya.