Cartoon Network has always been one of the Their darkest show, and one of their more About a dog trying to protect his farmer owners it stands to reason that the show itself can to kids, and even adults. Needless to say, there is more than enough moments... I'm Brad with WickedBinge. And today, we're counting down The Top 10 Let's get started! It's saying something when Freaky Fred ranks This episode is all about Muriel's nephew, He drops by his aunt's house for a visit, cruel to Courage, Courage and Fred are both While being locked up, Fred decides to give the poor dog down to just his tail, alongside Courage, not that happy with getting a haircut He goes as far as to hide in the toilet and even Fred drops his eternal smile in sheer Eventually, Courage manages to call the Home locked up again. Now, it's pretty clear as to why this episode The guy is actually an escaped mental patient, rhymes throughout the whole episode. He is distant from the world around him, and that everyone loves him. Even as Courage is cowering in fear and he's However, there is one big reason he isn't Despite how unnerving he is, he really doesn't Sure, shaving all the hair off of an animal and heinous acts on this list, that's a For one entry that isn't immediately obvious, 9. The appearance of Doc Gerbil, he is introduced Muriel and Eustace down and kidnap them. His reason for doing so is that he knows about Courage to be a free animal as well. Of course, Courage being who he is, decides Doc Gerbil is more than ok with experimenting Of course, the Bagges (pronounce: "bags") seem to understand why Courage would save Now, like with Fred, Gerbil does believe he However, unlike with Fred, the stuff Gerbil with literally experimenting on poor unsuspecting Like with the Lint Lady and turning her hands This eventually escalates into a boat chase waterfall and Courage screaming. It's a very surreal finale to say the least. Despite very much claiming to be a good person, He's certainly an egotist, if that unsettling is any indication. It's Doc Gerbil's world here at the ninth In eighth place, we have Curtain Of Cruelty. This is one of those episodes where it has During a trip downtown, a giant curtain falls to become crude and mean. They even hate the idea of people being nice saying thanks, and arrest her for apologizing Meanwhile, Muriel seems to be resistant to and as Muriel is forced to a video telling for the culprit of this curtain, only to find Using Muriel's homemade fabric softener, was able to turn the machine that Floyd was At first glance, this is a bit like The Tower more on the creator of what was making others affected by him. While the town folks end up becoming overly line from so mean it's hard to watch, to Heck, it's so nasty now that Eustace is And while they try to force Muriel to prove kind of cartoonish cruelty that helps keep It's a disturbing episode due to how everyone a bit as well. It's a good blend of horror and humor; just loved for so long. For the normally lucky seventh place, we have Now, everyone knows of the terrifying ending to the little farmhouse in Nowhere to offer stardom. The act is them performing on a stage as an This is already creepy enough, but it gets puppets. Courage is able to get his now puppet formed back to normal. Meanwhile, Fusilli ends up succumbing to his himself. As unnerving as this episode is, the scariest to be the series finale. This meant that the last scene of the show into insanity as he re-enacts his daily life Of course, what ultimately puts this episode end, and the series continued, letting this However, the fact this could have been the and thus, gets a slot here. Obviously, if it was the actual finale it still creepy, even if the show still goes Our sixth most terrifying episode here is Due to not being able to sleep well, Muriel However, this bed is cursed, with a scary and scaring Courage, and possessing Muriel. What follows is Courage having to find a way trapped inside the demon, screaming for Courage Even Eustace recognizes the severity of the to get possessed by the mattress himself. After knocking him out, Muriel calls the mattress This is a plot of something that crawled out the bed, Muriel levitating, and even puking falling off. These references were so disturbing that some However, this is balanced out by the titular the same voice actor as Winnie The Pooh, so Demon playing a round of Thumb War with Courage. Overall, this may be an earlier episode, but perfect to watch with a cup, of...TEA! Past the halfway mark, up next is Remembrance Over the course of the years, many have wondered his actual parents are. Well this episode offers a depressing yet After getting traumatized by a carton of milk to a vet to be checked out. However, this same vet was the reason Courage and startled by everything. Back when he was a pup, this nightmarish vet attempt to create a super space animal. How he got to that conclusion from just two us is realizing just how tragic and nerve about to lose his owners thanks to the vets. Thankfully, the doctor ends up in his own didn't work, as all the dogs are there on Courage's parents included. What's more, they all want to beat him up Normally, Courage's conflicts aren't this Usually it's just a random monster stumbling folks before eventually leaving. Here however is much more serious and personal Upon first seeing that milk carton, instead just silent. Nothing, not even Eustace with his usual mask a inch. Of course, considering just how vile and cruel Courage is an orphan, we really can't blame Overall, this is just a hard to watch episode apart all in the name of science. Outside the top 3, The House Of Discontent. This is where we get our first look with The isn't a pretty sight to look at. Due to just how pathetic their farmland is, give the Bagges and their dog an ultimatum. Grow something; anything, or leave the farm. Despite Courage's best efforts, they failed in the basement. To make matters worse, it's also getting However, thanks to Eustace literally sweating a plant to grow and appease the spirit, earning The thing that really puts this episode up is. He's a floating white head with black eyes is. He shows this anger by attacking Muriel with Eustace by blasting his tub's pipes open, the both of them. His low toned yet obviously angry voice certainly However, what ultimately puts this episode to leave and return the farm to normal after Just goes to show you that if you don't care of you in the worst way possible. At our third most terrifying episode, you Curse. "Return the slab, or suffer my curse." Those 7 words manage to get under everyone's After finding an old slab that some thieves greed puts the family in jeopardy as King A flood is first sent upon their house, almost brave act of swimming down to the basement A more lighthearted plague is soon followed Courage smashes the record. Finally, the scariest plague, a swarm of locusts as Eustace, trapping him in the slab. Did we mention that this locust can devour It was capable of even destroying the original This episode is infamous for one big reason; Like with The Spirit Of The Harvest Moon, style, being a CGI animated figure. His movement is rather slow and sluggish, He doesn't move an inch from his spot however, His own low rumbling voice only just added While we do think there are those scarier creeped out by this monster of the week. For our second place spookiest episode, we In comparison to our other episodes here, it is. After being assaulted by a mysterious masked that the mask itself is evil, and tries to However, the truth is much darker than that. In reality, Kitty is more or less locked out is stuck there with her abusive boyfriend, In comparison to other nightmarish scenarios is significantly more realistic and down to Mad Dog himself is a scary abusive boyfriend, to elevate himself. With him being run over by a train and killed well as a bit unnerving, to say the least. There are also heavy themes of misogyny and due to her thinking that all dogs are bad; terrible Mad Dog is. Even Courage seems to be paranoid of Kitty, the only other cat we see being the villainous Of course, there is also the potential of in their reunion in the end of the episode. Overall, this is definitely the most realistic themes it showed or hinted at, it definitely trophy. For our most disturbing and scary episode isn't quite obvious at first, but we think You know that old windmill, the one ever so Well, it turns out that it's rather important Not only is it their source of power, but made to ward off evil spirits, known as the You see, 250 years ago, the original owner a stick with a windmill despite the rising by the titular vandals. However, the water eventually dried out, and windmill, who was able to ward them off thanks one on each fin. Now that the windmill stopped, they came back forms riding horses and weaponry, even decapitating This threat is so sincere, that this is one are on the same page as Courage and have to They are ruthless and show no signs of slowing thanks to the windmill being repaired. This puts them as one of the few threats that permanently. Sure, continuity is a fickle thing here, but and stopped throughout the series; they would the Bagge's down. They could return anytime, anywhere. They are beyond death at this point, and only put them to rest, as long as it keeps spinning. For this fact of their ever looming threat, of the most horrifying Courage episodes. And with that, the nightmare is over! Did we miss an episode you thought should just being a bunch of stupid dogs? Feel free to scream your opinions at us in If you're feeling brave still, feel free notification bell. But most importantly, stay wicked!