(commentator speaking Farsi) (intense orchestral music) - [Steven] It's April, 1951. The World Wrestling Championships are being held in Helsinki, Finland. And this is a year that one of won Iran's first international medal, the silver in wrestling. His name was Gholamreza Takhti, and he was just getting started. One year later, he went to the where he finally brought home the Gold. Takhti's career in wrestling winning metal after metal. This guy was a national icon one of the most beloved I mean, they made a movie about him. But he was loved not just but also because of He was honorable and fair He once found out an opponent so he intentionally avoided it When he beat the reigning he noticed his opponent's so he pulled her aside and comforted her. And when an earthquake Takhti walked the streets especially other prominent Iranians, to provide help and relief. He was in many ways a man of the people. But why does all of this matter? A few months ago, I was in And I first learned about Takhti when I visited his grave His unexpected and controversial death caused a stir in the nation and thousands showed up to his funeral. It was clear that the was different from the others. It looked like a tomb for a king or a shah as they're known in Persian. And back in the sixties, Iran was ruled by the shah. But unlike Takhti, the shah and his regime was not as beloved or Across a backdrop of political corruption, economic strife, and natural disasters, people had very little They lived in fear and distress, but they couldn't complain arrested, or even killed by The contrast between a leader couldn't be clearer. While we were at Takhti's grave, told me story after story of the hardships and discontentment of living under the shah. But it's what he said at that stood out to me the most. Living under the shah was terrible, but life today under the Islamic regime is a hundred times worse. My name is Steven Morales. I'm part of the team here at Radical. For the past year, we've of God's work around the with us in a series we call I wanna take you on a of one of the oldest civilizations on the planet, tracing back thousands of years to understand the complexities of a nation and how that has led to cultural and religious challenges that make Iran such a hard to reach place that is bursting with opportunity The truth is, if you're a and watching this, you've through the limited lens of news headlines or Hollywood movies. It's possible that, like me, you've never actually or supporting indigenous that just seems like another Nineveh. But if God's heart is then we have to ask ourselves, how did some of these become so hard to reach? And is it possible that to cities in Iran like just like he did to Nineveh? This is &quot;Hard To Reach: Iran.&quot; (emotional string music) (soft marimba music) So let's go back to the 1960s. Iran is being ruled by Since the time of the Medes, yeah, like the ones you read Iran has been ruled by shahs. And Pahlavi was the last of those shahs, and he was allegedly trying to He came to power after World War II with promises of freedom for Iran like never before. And while things seemed to Pahlavi was not the ruler His life was marked by excess, throwing lavish parties while his people starved and struggled through a national economic crisis. This was nothing new or even for the dynasties like the Qajar dynasty, which started all the way back in 1789. Iran has had a long history and changing of powers. And in order to understand for us today we need to to before Iran was even called Iran. (intense music) That's right, Persia. It's not every day you can back to the Bible, but flip and you'll find a lot We hear about Persian rulers Ezra, and Ezekiel, but from this story. Oh no What we gonna do? The king likes Daniel Surely your god is above all men Now I understand For even at the bottom You were in his hands Daniel and the Lions all of this is happening the Achaemenid dynasty, the world has ever seen, and it all happened right here in Iran. The story literally ends saying, &quot;so this Daniel prospered and the reign of Cyrus the Persian,&quot; who's also known as Cyrus the Great. Cyrus was the leader that in Isaiah 45 saying he would Cyrus was the founder of the that extended over the and into parts of India. His grandson, Xerxes, was also You might remember him with another name. &quot;Now, in the days of Ahasuerus, from India to Ethiopia, he gave a feast for all his officials and servants. The army of Persia and media of the provinces were before him.&quot; This is the beginning and it's also happening So 2,500 years ago, Persia that ruled over man, almost And it seemed like for a moment there, Persia was poised to rule the world. And then history took a turn that no man could have foreseen. A group of tribes that had and at odds with each other united under one man and one creed, and began expanding into Iran. Arab forces made their first incursion unto Iranian soil right in 633 AD. At this point, the Persian empire had worn itself out while defending its and now found itself They pressed on and continued to fight for almost two decades, would ultimately prove the And so Islam entered Iran. (folk vocal music) Now, we can't cover a whole but for the sake of this story there's some things you should know. Islam is an Arabic word that Muslim means one who submits to God. You may have heard the Islamic creed, &quot;there is no God, but God Their holy book is called the Quran which should only be read There are two major Sunni and Shia. Across the world, Sunni's but the most well-known The split between these two denominations happened in the first generation of Islam in the seventh century, was about who should be Today, there are a number of theological and practical differences between the two, but they do share some common beliefs. Islam has a high regard for Jesus, considering him a prophet However, it denies him his rightful place as a son of God and payment for our sin. Muslims may be devout and but just like everyone else, they're in desperate need of salvation. Talk a little bit more about this later. (energetic marimba music) So back to the story, the changed the game in Iran, transforming its political but many Iranians today are still resisting Muslim influence. - Yeah, so I mean, Persian I mean we see it in the Bible too. When Islam actually came to Iran and Islamic Way impacted Iran, slowly and slowly we adapt the culture, but if when you go back to the root, we are Persians. That's how Iranian would look at it. We say we are Persians, we are not Arabs. It's not that, you no, but we have our own identity. So Islam was not part of our culture. We had our own culture. Now, Iranians actually wanted So they're opposing to because we think, okay, - This is my friend, Mima Alisade. Before he became a believer, he was also a star athlete but playing for the When he converted to Christianity, he was forced to leave his home and dreams of playing professional basketball. But the Lord took him on a different path, training Iranian church and translating a whole bunch He knows firsthand what under the heavy weight of Islam in Iran. - When you go to school, for example, you have to learn Arabic to and then pray five times in Arabic. So Syria, you have no idea but you're just, you know, You have no idea what And then we say, okay, like 2000 years ago we had this in Farsi. Why can't we just keep that culture? Why can't we just be Persians and have the freedom of having our own God and worshiping, you know, God in the way that we wanna, you know, worship our God. - When your country is so culturally rich and historically influential, for outsiders to only see you as Muslim, it's a bit insulting. While there are many Persians in particular have before anybody who spoke All of this is crucial to and even to understand what's happening with Christians today. Islam may be Iran's national religion, but it wasn't always that way. It's not even what most (energetic accordion music) Quick break from the rest of the video. We're currently in Tehran, in Shahr Park, really close to the Grand and it's incredible, the hospitality, the kindness we have A lot of people look at Iran and maybe don't have the best impression, but really when you get here you realize how much the media probably So I'm guessing the majority haven't been to and aren't planning on going to Iran anytime soon. And if that's the case, I just wanna let you in There's something just lovely and unique about the people of Iran. They're truth seekers. They're really not afraid even hard questions. But at the same time, they're Culturally, you just until you've experienced I mean, I was walking when a woman approached than seeing that I was from out of town invited me to sit with her family, drink tea, and eat sweets. I mean, I think every about hospitality from our It doesn't matter how far or different a place may seem to us, the image of God is everywhere and it's why this story matters so much. (soft marimba music) Alright, back to the story. It's December, 1979 and after and public demonstrations, was overthrown and forced You see, Pahlavi was no He was after all a huge And if you watch in the sixties and seventies, you'll notice it doesn't look all that different than some places in Europe and even the us. And while initially the satisfaction grew who felt that that Western Not to mention that the left many wondering how he while the people were going hungry. All of this led to the point of no return. The shah was deposed and in came the Islamic Republic's new supreme leader, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. Things were about to drastically change for the people of Iran, a new Islamic constitution of every citizen moving forward, meaning no more religious freedom. Islam is the rule of law. And most of all a new name, Now I wanna talk about for believers in Iran. And I know that talking may not be be the most exciting thing, but it is really relevant And so let me take one what it means to live As a republic and as part of the UN, Iran technically has a There's an elected a parliament of 290 elected officials. These officials represent all And there are even three seats reserved for leaders of traditionally There's a chief justice, Everything atypical But let's go back to that word Islamic. Being an Islamic republic is subject to the former. Yes, Iran has the president, there is a supreme leader which means a sign from God. And the Ayatollah can approve or remove any president at any time. He sits at the top of which approves or removes He supervises the special clerical court that handles religious He appoints the chief the police and armed forces Iran is one of only three And when you get down it doesn't actually function But here's why this matters. For the last 40 years, in Iran have been one and the same - It's the Islamic Republic of Iran, so the main religion is Islam. So you cannot have any other So when you are born in Iran, You have to practice Islam, since that's your religion by birth. - Islam is not a choice. It's what you're forcibly born into. And in people's minds, and the rule of Islam are the same thing. There is no separation And while that has elevated against Christians and it's also had one huge And I'll say it like came to power in a time when people were looking for hope for the future. And they came on a wave of promises that things would change for the better, but that didn't happen. - For example, the promise in Iranian never take place in Iran. And it causes that people for example, truths in the other way. You know, because before that, Iranian was so strong in Islam, but after they started Islamic revolution, they found out there is nothing in Islam. - [Steven] They were disappointed by it. - Yes. - This is Rantim Sudman. Rantim is an Iranian pastor who recently had to flee his He's also the son of the who was officially killed after the Islamic revolution took place. So what happened after - The excitement caused of the First Republic of Islamic Sharia and the so quickly faded in the because not only all social problems, despite the initial promise of the Iranian revolution, discrimination, corruption but also all problem were clearly visible in Iran's society more than before. And this caused unanswered - The Islamic regime on its promises to build a better country. And the disillusionment and disappointment people felt after wasn't but with Islam itself. And for people whose culture this led many on a search particularly in Christianity. It was in many ways the - Perhaps the corrupt had a bitter taste in people but it never tired them of The positive evidence and good testimony of the life of Armenian and during the years draw a lot of attention to Christianity among Iranian. (soft piano music) - There's this quote by CS He says, &quot;every good chess player takes what is precisely the strong point in his opponent's plan of his own plan.&quot; He takes his opponent's best move and makes it work in his own favor. He makes unpredictable moves. This is kind of the pattern of persecution that we see across the world God's enemies will do to crush the gospel, but and makes it work in his own And so if you take away anything it should be that life for and that's a huge understatement. But we also need to acknowledge that life is not easy living under the Islamic regime. There is a long list of urgent and yet God is doing something incredible and unpredictable here in Iran which we'll dive into in the next episode.