[Music] take these broken wings life hi I'm Robert Cassard happy you're with me I have been zeroing in on the individual Beatles on their instruments or overrated. my answer has I learned from John Lennon, who for me was a that's my most viewed video ever, at least so far, made the case for what a hugely influential now it is Paul's turn. I mean more than any other as a songwriter, a singer, a guitarist, and a songs could be so sweet and bouncy, and he loved kind of variety show fun, and sometimes campiness his solo career, and his years with Wings/ now and say. ah. he's a lightweight right? my wife good time debating the question of whether Paul the Get Back documentary kind of changed her mind, matter how you feel about Paul's schmatltzy side. of the world's most beloved songwriting duo. and stuff that made the Beatles a Rock band. I'm now like John and George, Paul wasn't a virtuoso and shredder type. but I argue he was a virtuoso song needed to optimize it musically and really going to share the three most important lessons things first, please take just a moment to like, I want you to know about future videos and to guitarists. I'm even planning a Ringo episode and Paul started out as a guitarist with the Beatles, original member Stuart Sutcliffe. and because a lot of people don't even realize that he wrote early Beatles years, he and John sat across and since Paul was left-handed and John was mirror. so John Lennon was considered the Beatles' lead guitarist, but often you know, thanks to play bass and step in on certain guitar parts. and one of the key things he taught me was to play which parts and riffs are Paul's, so here are a car. and the killer solo with slide heavily bent lead guitar parts on another girl. Paul wrote and played the the aggressive and driving Paul. and the lead guitar parts on Back that is attitude. usually when Paul stepped in you know, subtle, deliberate and more reserved needed to be a little wild, that was often guitar? if there's one lesson I learned from played acoustic in ways that sounded different was mainly self-taught,and just doing what he out of the guitar. so there are a few songs where you know, like I'm looking through you, Us. standard down up strokes. but he ditched the pick and played a unique style that I've never heard anywhere else. picking. on Yesterday, his thumb followed by three quarter-note pulls. you can see this in a live clip from claw position, and uses the flesh of his chords. I'm not half the man I used to be. but instead of a bass note on the down beat, Paul and three and four [Music] pattern. born a poor he switches to playing the root of each note, Blackbird, he does the same one, two and three and that every guitarist has to learn at some take these broken wings and learn to fly, all your arise, something like that. so overall, Paul's informal to me, and he doesn't mind leaving he carried forward into his post-Beatle solo relaxed vibe on songs like Every Night from Some People Never Know from Wild Life, and on and on. okay, let's change gears to bass his own. so what did I learn from Paul as a bass basslines. I mean pretty much every musician this side of Paul really influenced me early on, you know, like my solo stuff or my band Cosmic this bass part? so growing up, I sang in choirs played double bass in high school and college. I got used to the way a bass line supports and and then how that low-end contribution affects understood this too, and that might partly be 10 to 15. so he was certainly familiar with how so when he switched from being a guitarist in expected role of a bass player, and the kind of and roll rhythm section. I mean, it's mostly like over. and on some of those early songs, you know, he had to take it further and he developed this unique melody in itself. so his approach to bass you know, but no no matter how detailed his parts or detracting from it. I mean that was really encouraging every guitarist to try playing bass, from great rock songs. here's where I talked about it can really be fun to wait till the end of and then record a new melodic bass part. did with the Beatles. And by doing that, he to play in pop songs. You know, listen to the that is a great example of what happens when kind of dance around the melody and chords. so right so that's what's normally going to be goes... what a cool thing that is, how melodic, you know, to go from the then he hits the ninth just unexpected on bass. hook Rain, which was the B-side of the Paperback part. okay on the White Album, with a standard descending bass line [Music] sound. so we might just expect Paul's to C to B to B-flat, but as soon as Paul and it does follow the descending guitar line, tonic note D, which he hits on the second 1 and two and three and four and one so the swooping bass serves as vocals. love it. Hey Bulldog, one of parts. now by the time we get to The McCartney is pretty much unfettered as a are legendary. George Harrison wrote the ballad beautiful chord progressions and vocal melodies a more complex structure of a song like that, root notes and fifths. not Paul right? I usually find myself singing along [Music] you know it's funny, in an interview from the my bass playing was a little bit busy. from I could.&quot; Pretty humble. I mean, whoever decided you. I feel like it's a major part of what makes most non-musicians probably don't even think about a deep groove that made a song and recording way bass line. prime example: Come Together. so simple and then does a hammer-on slide up a fifth to sixth above it, which, that's the minor third an octave higher than where he started, and this here's Paul playing [Music] You got to love it. lays a great foundation one more vital lesson I learned from Paul, for this too. it's to go wild and get and I include myself in that category, we and their sense of humor and relentless being groundbreaking and and kind of a right? but actually, some of the Beatles' wildest, I mean, we all know he could let loose example: you know you can make it but check out Paul's guitar solo on Tax man Good Morning Good Morning from Sergeant Peppers. [Music] fire. and we can't leave out Helter an interview with Pete Townshend of The the loudest song ever and Paul responded that's often referenced as the precursor finally to end my lessons from Paul, here End: all right, those are three essential things to play with attitude and play your own and number three, to go wild and get weird. take ourselves too seriously, and I think that we all keep coming back to the Beatles, you know, be listening to instead. okay, even though I my next video will be what I learned from be patient with me, because I shoot, record, and this channel is just a hobby. I have been at it archives at GuitarDiscoveries.com and also