- Jargon gets a bad but there's something good about jargon, and I think it should be explored because jargon hangs on, because it has a usefulness. When people in the same that stands for five pages why say five pages of stuff And if the other person understands it exactly the way you understand it, then jargon has usefulness. The trouble is we develop that they're not understood by people at just a little distance For instance, even show business, which you wouldn't expect where you might not expect it- even show business has it, movie making. &quot;Take this gobo and put it and hurry up because And while you're at it, Well, that's not and it's crystal clear to somebody who's been on I guess I have to explain it or people will be writing &quot;What does all that mean?&quot; A &quot;gobo&quot; is a thing that blocks out light. A &quot;century&quot; is a century stand made by The Century when their name is on the stand- it's a stand that holds The &quot;martini shot&quot; is before you go home and have a martini. And a &quot;half apple&quot; is a box that you can put things on, like people who are too short. So that's jargon for a movie set. But jargon has another evil use aside from separating us from one another, and that is that when we want to use it to make ourselves look really smart. &quot;I'm smart, I talk like this. You can't really talk like this, so you're not as smart as me.&quot; A lot of us do this unconsciously, We get more done if we open ourselves up. It's really fun to be on the that is probably not gonna be understood by the other person. And to say, &quot;Wait a second. How can I say this in And if we do that, sometimes we learn more about the jargon than we thought we knew. We humanize it, we reduce What are the concepts that And then the jargon sometimes of some of the luster of doesn't help the jargon be helpful. Choice of words does matter, it matters a lot. But I think that it's that if all we do is get and the right order of words and think that that's gonna make all by itself good communication, I think we're missing the boat because really effective communication is not just because I have It really occurs when you understand and internalize what I have to say and are able to make it and that kind of thing. Here's an interesting example of that: One of our medical students who we were training to communicate better was on rounds with a supervising MD. And the doctor who was in and he had to explain to her that she had incurable And he was talking to her. And as he was telling her these, all this was really she wasn't asking questions. And you could tell by or at least the medical student could tell by the look on her face, that she wasn't understanding it. She was just listening with And the lead doctor said, &quot;Okay, or whatever he said, and left. And the young doctor, the &quot;Do you mind if I stay and talk to her?&quot; And he was given permission to do that. So now, he sat down right opposite her and took her hand in his, and he started to say that the other doctor had said, but he didn't use the same words. So the words changed. He didn't say &quot;metastasis.&quot; He talked in simpler terms, but he was making contact with her. He was looking at her eyes. He was opening himself up And little by little, she started to cry and she started to ask questions. And finally, she understood And he helped her through He helped her get that understanding because she wasn't protected against this barrage of that the other doctor had been giving her. And what he said to us, what the medical student, was that it brought him back the mirroring exercise, where he has to mirror the And when that happens And he said, &quot;I was mirroring her. And then she began to mirror me because she helped me be a better doctor because she responded with which let me know she He was so moved by the experience that he began to cry And I don't think he was crying because he felt her pain at the awareness that she was gonna die. I think he was moved because that this And he realized that during the workshops to be able to make this kind was a profound experience. And he said that he would and how it came from the So that was a wonderful because it was a personal that people can be changed by this.