Thank you to NORD VPN for supporting PBS. It's about time we discussed an obscure than energy and entropy and perhaps time itself. Ready? Action. In order to wrench the laws of physics from the reluctant clutches of nature, we need to watch for clues - patterns in its behavior example: around 40 AD, Heron of Alexandria noticed that when light moves between two points, out of all the possible paths between them, it follows the shortest one. He proposed what you might call a Principle of Least Distance to define the path of light. Of course we now know that light doesn't always travel by glass or traveling through a gravitational Heron for Pierre de Fermat to propose a solution for the case of refraction: what if light didn't travel the path of least distance, speed between media, then the fastest trajectory is no longer a straight line. With this principle of least time, Fermat was able to explain It seemed as if we'd stumbled on a powerful guiding pattern in nature - minimizing principles. What if there was a similar property that of matter as well as light? There were some involving momentum and kinetic energy - but to no avail. In the meantime Isaac Newton came up with his laws of motion which gave us the instant and miraculous power to explain the motion of all particles in the universe. exact vector forces on each body at each time, which lets you calculate its exact vector positions, velocities, and accelerations at That's doable for, say, a ball flying through for complicated systems. So maybe we were still in the market for a simple guiding principle after all. It was Joseph-Louis Lagrange who found that principle. Consider again the ball flying through the air. We can describe that motion without the painful vectors if we use energy. The ball starts out moving fast - it has a potential energy as it rises, and then back on the energy stuff, check out our previous video when you're done here. You can figure out a lot using just energy - like the maximum height the ball will reach. But because energy doesn't include directional information to determine the exact path. Except you can. Lagrange realized that a particular combination of kinetic and potential energy had the same minimizing property as does time for the path of light. He found that the ball will always follow the path that minimizes the time-averaged difference between these energies. In other words, add up the difference between kinetic and potential energy at all time steps during the flight and you get a number. Then try The result will come out higher for every travels. Lagrange called this new quantity over time of the kinetic minus potential energies. And that difference in energies itself got to be an enormously important and useful quantity. Lagrange proposed that everything in Nature happens in such a way that Action is always of Least Action. A century later William Hamilton made the important correction that Action is always minimized OR maximized. Here's between paths - you get paths where it's tend to choose paths where the variation of change much - in other words, where the slope of this curve is zero, and that's true at both the minima and maxima. Most of the time it's the minimum, which is why most people still call this the Principle of Least Action, If the principle of Least Action is true, path that any object will take between two which has the minimum action. That sounds hard, but thankfully Lagrange and Euler already did most of the work for us by finding the students and nature to minimize their action. The Principle of Least Action in combination with the Euler-Lagrange equations leads to When you study Newton's mechanics and then move on to Lagrangian mechanics, it seems almost like a miracle. The hellishly complex Newton seem to just melt away into much simpler forms. This simplicity comes from the fact that with Lagrangian mechanics we can dispense with forces and vectors in general, and only consider the energies. The Principle of Least Action is so powerful us something deep about the universe. But property really signifies. Well, if it really beyond classical mechanics and into our modern theories - in particular general relativity and quantum mechanics. And perhaps in these we'll find clues as to what the action is really about. Let's start with Einstein's General Theory before, describes the force of gravity in and time. One of Einstein's motivations that Newtonian mechanics failed to correctly predict the orbit of Mercury. If you calculate that orbit using the Einstein equations in get the right answer. But you don't even Action is really a fundamental law, then there should be a relativistic version of the Action that we can minimize to find Mercury's orbit. After all, planets trade between potential and kinetic energy as they move around their orbits, just like the ball. It turns out that we only need to make a couple of relativistic corrections to do this. The most important is writing the Lagrangian as In relativity, clocks run at different rates position in a gravitational field. Proper in its own reference frame. If you plug the equation, you get equations of motion correctly describing the orbit of Mercury around the Sun. This shows us that the Principle of Least more. First, it means that Lagrangian mechanics based on this principle can be made to be "Lorentz invariant" - it gives equations frames of Einstein's relativity. And we of the Action. Once we apply the relativistic corrections, the Action simplifies into just the integral over proper time. Let's take a moment to think about that. Before Action was a somewhat vague notion of change in energy, but working with a more precise model of the universe we see Action is much easier to understand. Action is now just how much time is perceived by an observer in their own frame of reference. All objects moving through space time move through paths that minimize the time measured on that path. Remember that Fermat figured out that light always travels the path that minimizes its travel time - the principle of least time. case of a Principle of Least Proper Time. limit proper time becomes kinetic minus potential energy for objects with mass, but for objects without mass, like light, proper time and OK, it seems like we're getting somewhere. us any deeper, or perhaps just make everything more confusing. Let's start with the famous double slit quantum mechanics. In it, a stream of quantum particles are launched at a barrier with two slits cut in it. When the stream reaches a particles make individual spots, but over time the spots make out this series of bands - an interference pattern. The quantum interpretation of this is that the particle travels between its source and the screen not as a particle wavefunction that represents all possible screen represents the range of possible final locations for those paths, with some being more probable than others. The particle then appears to randomly select a position from that distribution. But there seems to be a conflict here. The will always land where the action of the trajectory is at a minimum or maximum. That should correspond only to the central points of those bands. location in between - albeit with more likelihood the closer you get to these action stationary points. So perhaps Action isn't as fundamental as we thought it was. Or perhaps this is telling us more about what the Action really is. Paul Dirac very nearly figured this out. He existed that was related to the integrated realized that this quantity should result - like the dark bands in the double slit experiment. It would lead to constructive interference only where this quantum action varied slowly - near it's stationary points, just like with classical action. But the real action hero of this story is tells us about a particle's history along the path of a quantum object could be determined by adding together all possible paths that particle could take weighted by this quantum action. In this case the quantum action doesn't come from adding up kinetic minus potential energy nor the proper time. Instead, it effectively calculates the phase shift that a particle Then it adds the phases of all conceivable most likely destinations are those where the phases line up - constructively interfere. This is Feynman's path integral formulation the predictions of previous versions of quantum mechanics - for example, Schrodinger's wave mechanics that talks about the evolution of a single wavefunction. This is analogous to how Lagrangian mechanics reproduced Newton's mechanics. And it's no coincidence, because the path integral is the quantum analog of So what does this tell us about the Action? final destination is likely if the phases destination line up. Away from those special points, very tiny changes in the path lead to rapid changes in the phase, causing those paths to cancel out. As Dirac started to guess, particles tend quantum action. In the path integral, this happens for paths that take the shortest path, but not the shortest path through space, the shortest path through something called configuration space. And this "configuration space" is what is the space of all possible trajectories of the ball, configuration space refers to current Potential and Kinetic Energies. When we take this to relativity we see the configuration space becomes configuration spacetime, where the shortest path minimizes proper time. In quantum mechanics configuration space could mean phase space - the space of possible positions and momenta - or it could be more general states that a system could evolve through. The application of the quantum action principle to the evolution through quantum states underpins modern quantum theory. Back to Paul Dirac just for a moment. His eponymous equation was derived to describe the quantum evolution of the electron. Well it turns out that this equation is just And there's a Lagrangian for each quantum field which describes how that field and its particles tend to evolve. Combining these allows us to track the evolution of all quantum fields through configuration space, and so predict the behavior of all known particles. And remember, this all started with Heron of Alexandria studying light two thousand years ago. He found a very simple and beautiful pattern in nature, and this has been inspiring us ever since. Through Fermat and Lagrange and Dirac and Feynman, each seeking a path through the configuration space of ideas, guided by is the Action - pointing the surest way to We'd like to thank NORD VPN for supporting PBS. Imagine VPN as a secure, encrypted tunnel for online traffic to flow. Nobody can see your internet data. NordVPN allows you to or anywhere else that you're on someone personal and work accounts on the road, or simply keep your browsing history to yourself. With NordVPN, you one account lets you connect securely up to 6 devices. They don't log your activity while you're online, they've and 24/7 customer support. To learn more about NordVPN, just check out https://nordvpn.com/spacetime. As always, if you've joined us on Patreon, support is in keeping this show going. But Quasar supporter Michael Schneider. Hamilton's principle tells us that action must always be minimized or maximized. Michael, thank you for choosing maximal action. You clearly have a Lagrangian of the highest order, and we're delighted that our equations of motion have joined forces. Let's get into your comments on our recent contentious one. Many of you were dubious that constructor theory really offers anything new. And honestly, I started out wondering an inkling that there probably is something example, David Deutsch, that this is some sort of huge revolution, but it at least seems a useful path to explore. Nestor de Buen asks: Isn't this more of Adding that everything would be better if more. So my sense is that constructor theory does try to bring a philosophical perspective shift, which in principle can be incredibly shifts. But there is math behind it also, and ergodic theory - and for a great resource on those I recommend ... the internet. Speaking of the math - Corbin Simpson and Skooks say that constructor theory sounds like category theory. I only learned about when Chiara Marletto was asked at the end of one of her lectures whether she'd tried formulating constructors theory in terms of category theory, and she said the hadn't but agreed maybe they should. So nice insight there, Corbin &amp; Skooks. As for what category theory is it's loosely a way to generalize and the relationships between them with graphs. But for details check my previous reference - the internet. Chapter 7.4 I think. But as theory, and presumably constructor theory, and arrange our axiomatic foundations. This is all some pretty obtuse stuff, and of constructor theory than I did, so let me The Andy points out that constructor theory seeks to narrow down the space of all possible functions that might represent physical laws into the subset of functions that are consistent with the restrictions that come from observation. Subsequent observations and constraints then allow that set to be further narrowed. The function, which means physics is over. Or that can perfectly describe the universe. Joe Habel also puts it well: If we assume the universe operates under certain assumptions (infinite/finite, discrete/continuous spacetime, invariance, quantum etc.) then constructor theory gives us insights as to what math is possible, and Nicely put Joe - so rather than digging for details of a given observed phenomenon - usually by trial and error - we come at in from the other direction and ask what sub-realm of we know with certainty is possible and impossible. DJclub notes that constructor theory feels shade on Newton with that whole &quot;you can't transmute apples into gold&quot; line" - and for those are unaware, Isaac Newton was an avid alchemist. But I think there's a point to be made here. How could Newton have know which lines of inquiry would be "fruitful" without exploring them? Constructor theory might be another alchemy, or it might be another Newtonian mechanics. Shall we find out? Not according to Syn Severus, who says It's honestly the dumbest thing in existence. Best to forget it exists. I'm swayed by the strength of your conviction, Syn Severus... I guess we can rule out ... What were we talking about again?