GMAIL'S POPULARITY: In September of 2021, they controlled 35.25% But by October of 2022, they only controlled This means that within these 13 months, Gmail's This might not seem like a large amount at that basically everyone with an internet connection There's estimated to be about 4.26 billion So, this means that Gmail either lost 306 new email accounts are choosing the other It's probably some sort of combination of Ever since gmail launched, the consensus has Whether we're talking about personal use, been the bomb. I would even argue that some of the other them especially yahoo and hotmail. So, how did Gmail go from being the go to their market share within a year. THE APPEAL OF GMAIL: market share, we'll first have to understand And for this, we'll have to go back to April If you didn't know, Gmail was actually launched In fact, Sundar Pichai, the current CEO of time. And when interviewers asked him about his was just an April Fool's Day joke. The main reason that this theory was so popular laughibly absurd. At the time, Yahoo and Hotmail offered 2MB So, when Google came out with 1 GB of storage was surely a joke. But, April Fools Day came and left and Gmail This definitely caught people by surprise, In 2005, they would increase the storage to storage to four GB. Very quickly, Gmail went from being a joke I don't think I have to tell you the horrors archive is less than 2 or 5 MB. But, storage was just the first of many advantages Gmail also boasted the best spam filters, to actually search through your email. Yes, the other popular services didn't even But, while everyone wanted Gmail, not very brings us to the second appeal of Gmail which Here's the thing, offering these crazy storage turned out to be extremely hard. So, they had to heavily limit the number of For most companies, this would've been a made it an advantage by making Gmail invite People could only open a gmail account if a gmail account. So, if you had a Gmail account, you were very It wasn't till nearly 3 years after the to everyone. By this point, most people who didn't yet so Gmail's marketshare continued skyrocketing. It wasn't just everyday people who craved Google was very much getting schools and institutions features. For institutions, Google offered custom domain 30 GB of storage up to unlimited storage based Once again, Google blew out the competition But, this was basically the end of the era While Gmail was indeed the superior choice, 2010s was forced adoption. FORCED ADOPTION: Google ecosystem, Google's strategies throughout But, for the people who didn't buy into pain in the neck. What Google started doing was merging all have a single Google account for all of them. This probably doesn't seem like a big deal heated about this. And likely the biggest culprit was Google+. If you're not familiar with Google+, I don't failure. Google+ was basically Google's attempt at competing against Facebook. It seems harmless at first glance, but the to join Google+ because of its features, Google For example, in 2011, Google modified the had to create a Google+ profile, and this I think you can see why this would be annoying, worst infraction. Likely their worst infraction was their policy In 2013, YouTube mandated that people must comments. For obvious reasons, people were enraged and call out google. Jawed would post quote "Why the f do I need Despite all the backlash, Google wouldn't While Google+ was no doubt the worst offender, to Gmail accounts as well. Google made it so that you needed a Gmail on Google. Do you want to use Google Drive? Well, you're gonna need a Gmail. Do you want to a YouTube account? Well, you're gonna need a Gmail. Do you want to download apps from the play Well, you're gonna need a Gmail. The funniest part was that this monopoly extended I'm sure you're all familiar with the While this feature is on doubt super convenient, and forced more people to get Gmails even Gmail for email. A similar case could be made for the education If universities wanted to run Google Ads or needed a Google account, and they needed all well. Now, technically, many Google features are all know that the services are way better Trying to use Google's services without a Windows computer. It works, but it's not all that great. THE TURNING TIDE: Google has become one of the most dominant scarcity, and forced adoption, but their dominance So, what's happening? Well the answer is pretty simple. Google is running out of trump cards. Let's start with features. One of Gmail's original selling features has not only caught up, they've actually Take Outlook for example. Outlook offers 15 GB of storage just for their through OneDrive. So, Gmail is by no means leagues ahead of Moving onto Gmail's second selling factor having Google account is cool anymore. It's basically just the norm and everyone This also makes it extremely difficult for really no one left to convince. Something else that we should mention is that students or professionals because you can't The reason that many schools and universities because they made collaboration extremely But, if you put the convenience and collaboration Microsoft office is the superior service. And over the past 10 years, Microsoft has office products and collaboration features. Microsoft Office online is actually free, because they usually already have a bunch So, many institutions are switching back to cloud storage, and Microsoft Office. We should also mention that while schools companies never did. In fact, nearly 196,000 companies in the US Another catalyst that has stolen market share Protection program. This program makes it harder for email marketers activity. And in age where everyone is worried about your data, it's not surprising that people This is made even easier by the fact that of this program. In fact, it would be easier to take advantage it. All you have to do is use the inbuilt mail Gmail app. And while people have been weary of the iPhone feature is very much pushing people towards data. In September of 2021, Apple had 50% market share. And I suspect that this will only grow with of data protection. THE FUTURE OF GMAIL: dying or becoming irrelevant. You very much still need a Gmail account to But it does seem like people are using other Some of the surface levels reasons for this up in terms of features, they have better has basically just reached market saturation. But, if we look beyond that, it appears that People are more aware than ever how these for free and how they really make money. For example, here's all the data the Google It appears that Apple has caught onto this framing their business with this mind. They're positioning themselves as the big This can be seen with their "Ask Not To program. It's not just Apple who's jumping onto In the messaging space, we have Signal and While these services offer completely different Erasing the bad aspects of big tech. And given that Google already doesn't have popularity will simply continue to trend downwards, Which email client is your favorite? Comment that down below. Also, drop a like if you hope this trend leads Google's services. And of course, consider checking out our discord consider subscribing to see more questions