Hello, this is Komusubi.I'm in Hokkaido, but I have to go back to Honshu soon... I have unfinished business in Hokkaido, so I'm going to put my energy into it today.My trip to Hokkaido was a lot of fun, and every day was fulfilling. However, I have a mission that I must complete!! I'm thinking of making a long video about how sad it would be to say goodbye to such a wonderful place . It looks like it's going to be great, but if I make it, will they watch it!? There are some spots that aren't shown in the video, so maybe people will enjoy it. I'm always thinking about this while making videos Also, the viewers always tell me their recommended spots, so it goes smoothly. I thought I had completed my trip, but it seems like I just passed by " It happens often I arrived safely . This is a place I wanted to visit again before leaving Hokkaido. GOGO!! One person around my age is enjoying it. Niseko is my favorite place because the scenery is amazing. My favorite [Kokia]-chan I came last time in June, so the scenery was different. On my second visit, I was greeted by sunflowers. I couldn't help but come back again. I wanted to come here Prativo Takahashi Farm Restaurant New Caption Mandriano's Pizza Cheese Gorgonzola Cream Cheese Grana Padano I was so moved by the deliciousness of this pizza that I couldn't forget the taste.The cheese is so stretchy~~~ And I couldn't finish this visa. It's great that you can take it home.It has 4 types of cheese on it, so the taste is different depending on where you eat it, and it's so delicious that I wanted to try all of them.Cheese lovers should definitely try this!! Happy everyone, I know what this is called. !? There are so many big round lumps in Hokkaido , I don't look so small!? Oh... from the beginning!? Runrun Komusubi is back and is having a hard time taking off her sandals... This cheesecake tart is really delicious! You can feel the melty texture on the inside!!! It's delicious even when it's cold!! I bought two, one to eat right away and one to eat at night, and I'm off to another destination. There are so many things to do, but I have to go there... Arrival!! &quot;Lucky Pierrot&quot; Long time no see ~ Chinese Chicken Omelette Rice How many times have I been to Lucky Pierrot in Hakodate? The eggs are fluffy and the chicken is nostalgic . Besides being delicious with rice, this chicken is my favorite Best of all, it's huge!! Lucky Pierrot only has a store in Hakodate, so I'm thinking they should open it nationwide, but it's only available there. It feels special and that's good!! A few hours later... Komusubi visited Lucky Pierrot again.This time I went to buy a souvenir (in a different store) .I ate a lot today. ~ Tomorrow we finally say goodbye from Hokkaido. One last place I have to go.Yesterday was my last day, so I was a little nervous and couldn't sleep wellIt 's like being so excited on a school trip that you can't sleep! Have you all had that experience ? !? While we were talking about this, we arrived at our final destination: Lucky Pierrot.Why do I come to Lucky Pierrot so much!?? There is a KFC next doorThe reason why I came to Lucky Pierrot in various stores ... It was to collect stamps and get a mugSome people think it's okay just to buy them, but there's a meaning in collecting stampsI came to Hokkaido in June, and it was just around the corner. Apparently the stamp rally started on June 1st, and after I received one stamp on the day I landed, this curse started.I wanted to achieve this curse no matter what, and I cleared the remaining three in the last two days.It 's only here. Story... Shake looked like he was drinking vanilla ice cream too, so it was really fun.Finally, we arrived at the ferry terminal. I miss you a little bit. The monumental bell at Hakodate Terminal Heart makes me want to ring it. The time has finally come. Even now, it's a strange feeling to see a car go inside the ship.I have a lot of respect for a ship that doesn't sink.(lol) I thought I was going to go inside the ferry , but I was surprised to see an escalator.It 's so high-tech. I didn't prepare for the ferry beforehand, but it turned out to be an amazing (excellent) ferry.I chose the cheapest plan this time as well.There was also a space where I could relax while looking at the sea!! I took the opportunity to take a walk inside the ferry. I'm going to give it a try. What the heck is this?! After taking a walk, I discovered a shower room, which was free, so I had no choice but to go in!! I only had a small towel, but I went in. After I went in, I had a beautiful time looking out at the ocean elegantly. It's so refreshing and the scenery is amazing and mesmerizing!! I was thirsty so I bought some juice!! I'm tipsy and drink a lot so people think I'm going to drink juice, but oops, excuse me, I basically only drink water (((;d; ;))) Musubi is made of water ((( ;d; ;))) That's why it was rare for people to buy juice. People in the past lived on continents across the ocean . There must be an amazing story behind discovering a new continent, something that was unknown to us beyond the ocean. I was thinking about what to eat with the devil fruit... Already off to Aomori, buddy !! How have you been?? We've just finally passed through Hokkaido and landed in Aomori . Honshu! Komusubi is back! ~ Bye bye , I'll be back~ Hokkaido I really enjoyed my two-month trip to Hokkaido.I was filled with new discoveries , like there are so many delicious foods in Japan.Komusubi 's journey will continue...