(music playing) (music playing) - Today I am at the world's Up to eleven A380 can be at the Emirates engineering. And I have engineer Omar with me today. He's going to give me a and showing us a lots of (music playing) (music playing) (music playing) (machine noise) I bet you haven't seen an stripped out, just the floor. That's exactly here what I'm seeing today. (music playing) Oh, wow. This is definitely different. The whole cockpit panel and you can see the 3d copied between the main and the upper deck. - And this is the maintenance which we get all those items get removed for either for overall repairs, modifications, - And then you can see, this And you can see all these off the cockpit. And I don't know how many There's huge here. (music playing) Imagine 400 seats used to And now they've all during this heavy maintenance, right? - Right. (drilling noise) - So Sam, as you see over here, we talked about the three C. All of those floor, both were removed. Just for the inspection And now we are installing them back. You can see the guys that are installing the floor back in position. - Why are you doing this? - The first reason of that itself, for damages, The other reason is to inspect and the, the seat track. - The track. - Yeah. The seat tracks. Those are the seat tracks - Yeah. I see the guys are This must be a massive job. Taking all the seats out, interior out. Then open every floor board to check, and then bring everything - It is. This will take just to get it all removed - In the middle there What (inaudible) is this? - Well, this is a lift, just to get. - This is a lift. Elevator. - A lift, just to transport items from the main deck to the upper deck. - Yeah, I can actually see, So this is the galley. They - Exactly. I actually didn't even inside between the galleys. (music playing) Guys, if you've flown the Emirates A380, you've probably remembered goes up to the upper deck. And after all the panels, all the laboratory has been stripped off, this is what the bare Just like your home staircase, right? (music playing) They actually earlier, they Now they're reinstalling - Correct. - Oh, I see. I see. - So the guys are making the If any of these, just to So Sam let's go have a - Yeah. Sure. Let's go to upper deck. There's a lots of exercising. This is incredible. Incredible how huge Omar just told me this is because at the first you remember there's two showers spa, and now it's completely been removed. I want to check out what's - Yeah, I remember he was talking about the avionics compartment. This is the upper avionics compartment. - Oh, we didn't know that. - Yeah, over here, we're having the upper avionics compartment, Which is nobody can see unless - So would you like a glass of Mojito? This is where normally they serve you a drink on the upper deck on the Emirates A380. Now everything has been removed. You probably don't recognise. I'll come back to the old boar lounge. And here's your Mojito. - So, Sam, I don't think This is actually the platform And the seats should be Now, those platforms have to do the inspection, and the seats have been sent to the shop for the overall as well. - This is really quite unbelievable. You know, you have to climb to reach the horizontal Cause usually it's so tall It's unbelievable. - We are going on the top of On the view over there, As you see it from the seats - We're going slowly. Step-by-step. This is a serious exercise. Incredible. You can almost Incredible feeling, having the - This is the 10th camera, on your seat. It will show you the full - I can see number four engine is removed. Not often you see A380 - That's right. Well, the that the overall engine, overall got view, and we get it to shop, to the engine shop to do the full overall. And then the replacement of this, we're getting a new civil - This is the GP7200, right? - Correct. - The engine Alliance. - Correct. - Yeah. - Any idea? What's that box is? - That grey box. - The grey box. - No idea. Just a box. - That's the brain of the engine. That's the controller, full - So that's the computer of the engine. - Yes. - Wow - This is the air conditioning unit. And this is the old one And we saw the new one over - Right, this is huge. - It is huge. - It's not quite like the How many air conditioning - We're having two of those, two units. - Two units, to get all - Yes. - Wow, amazing. - So over here behind which is returning back to service. Over here, we'll be doing the gear swing. Gear swing is getting the gear retracted and extended back again. Over here, the engineer with the other engineer on cockpit, to give him the command to - That's incredible. Like I haven't seen this It looks incredible. And two jacks on each side, They're supporting the 580 Imagine you losing one pin. It's going to be a disaster, but we're going to make - We'll be seeing the - Oh yeah. - The doors open first, all doors. And then the wind gears coming out. - I was under the wing first, wind gear. - Yes, the wind gear. - And then the buddy gears. - Okay. That's eight, eight tyres. And then there's two more here. - Those are six, six. - That's just amazing. It feels like this is the (music playing) Tell me. What's the other apart from the gear swing. - Apart from the gear that the engines are serviced and checked, landing gear as well, flight controls and internal should be inspected and checked. (music playing) So we walk over here 24/7, to get each and every 380 back to sky. - Wow, this is crazy. Hi, how are you? Nice to see you. - Thank you. - I don't think we need This is where every - Yeah, we have a business class, the first class and the - This is the economy, - This is business class. - This is actually business class. Kind of recognise it. Honestly, - Cushions and covers. - Took out the console, it but there you go. There's a business class seats. Switches underneath, to play with. - These are manual switches. - Oh, manual switch in the business class. - Yes. - It's heavy. You know I try to still want to go home So I did a little detective work and discovering things here. These seats actually we saw earlier while doing where they strip off all the And each seat has a tag. this one was 23 echo. This was 19 Bravo. So because the seats is in aisle seats, in the window seat, and the centre pair seats. - Business class shells, we're going to send it to a fresh new paint. And we are again going to assemble it, and make it look like a brand new seat. - That's part of the heavy seat chair. - Heavy seat chair. - Wow, now it looks more You recognise this shell here. And this is where the suits come into. I'm actually quite amazed. This is actually the first class suites. No one would've believed it. And today I've really seen a lot. - We completely stripped down the seat. We check each and every the integrity, the quality. You can see down here. These are the actuators the seat to bed more when they're applied. So all these undergo a series of tests. - How long does it take to in first class cabin. - It takes almost 14 days to - Feels like a factory here. It's incredible. It feels so different to the end product where customer's sitting on, right? This is just a shell. It takes a lots of good cleaning and also decoration presentable and comfortable. - Well, Sam, this is a sidebar panel. This one is, it's a place for you. We just want to show you onto the sidewalk panel. - Oh, I see. It's actually, this is the wallpaper. - Yep. - And then it goes into - The composite panel. - The composite panel, right? - So this machine helps us to composite panel by heating - Oh. So when it got heated, this thing will stick onto the sidewalk. - Yes, exactly. - Interesting. Never thought we fly the plane we thought And we didn't know there and material behind. - Once the lamination this is where we do the And we attach the brackets. These are just trying to hold - And this one, you probably have seen my This was the wall on the This is only on the Emirates also a huge bathroom. - So Sam, let's go have a look inside, see what's happening in - Let's go. (music playing) - So I just came inside that work here changing cushion covers. So these are new cushion - Yes, new ones. - Okay. That's pretty intensive job in the economy, changing one by one. There's a lots of, lots of work. Just imagine how many need to decorate and change, - So, Sam, not only the bins Also we have to check on the IFE system, we'll check the monitors. We check the, the condition The guys are preparing the and preparing for the And the replacing gets by the new carpets. - You have to test every single seats. - Yeah. We have to check the operation of each and every business class seat. - That's pretty cool. I I can change. I can check. I'm going to be a seat checker. I love to be inside of the aeroplane. - Hi, Sam. Good afternoon. - Oh, actually my first I've seen a lots of video of painting, but I've never been Quite special here. ( music playing) We all hooked up here. I guess, you know, where we're heading. We're going to see from the I liked that whites and gold right? It's a sticker on top. - It is. - It is 50th UAE anniversary this year. How long would it take - This took us two days. - Two days. And then you just have to go near and you have - Actually, this is on top - Oh, it's on top. Okay. - Yup. - But my question is how long it takes to paint a 777 or A380. - We do a 777 in 11 days. We strip it to the bare metal and painted, including the labour in 11 days. - What's the process like? You have to strip off the old paints. - Yes, We have to strip it to the metal and then, start applying all and the clear coats and the colours. And then we do all the And then we started - It's always a great with special colours as a plane spotter. Hopefully you guys can catch Cause Emirates 777 (music playing) How many litres of paints - For a 777, we would use up - 600 litres. What about A380. - A380 would be almost twice as much, - Twice as much. And you know, a lot of airlines, they paint the planes just white, which I hate as a plane spotter. Some airline painted all black, right? Is this cost the same, - Material wise, it will cost the same. There's no difference. - No difference. If you painted. lots of different colour. - Exactly. That's the look add the cost. - Add the cost. Yeah. - I see. Interesting to know. (music playing) What a day. It's amazing. I've seen so many things that Thank you so much, Omar. But more so I also seen a and technicians here. Working 24/7 to ship, to make sure the aeroplane are safe to fly I want to thank them because normally would never came on the camera. But they're doing great work