- In 2017, my father felt the strong urge to move to El Nido. He was always looking for That year, he closed his shop in Cubao. He wanted to get away from the Here I just tagged along with him. Hi, my name is Justin - And name is wife Sarah and - The house has a footprint and the floor area is I wanted to live close to but I still had to visit sites and get internet access for my work. Fortunately, I found this to electricity despite but it was still remote enough - There are small waterfalls and a beautiful lake of water in the dry season. It is a great place for I think this close to untouched nature. - It is a very interesting experience to design something for myself. It was the first time I got to explore and be as creative as I wanted, but also it's the first repercussions of cost. Now I understand better - He made sure that 'cause I like nice views. I think it's very well Everything's open, the plants are here. I think it might even be more what he likes sometimes. 'cause he really made sure And then when we found out we just kept on building Originally we didn't really anything, but it's okay 'cause we're very close - I started by studying the natural characteristics of the environment. I tried to design the house to nature as possible. I tried to get to know the and the insects that lived here. When I first found this land, but we kept all the trees. I spent a good amount of and the sun at different times of the day. The house is oriented towards of natural ventilation. We follow the slope of the to the natural levels as possible. We also have some gaps in the I feel like every project So I kept asking the house Later it told me where to The house is totally open. There's a blurred line We tried to use humble ramed, earth, concrete. We used wood that is Most wood that is planted in species of wood like mahogany or gmelina. These species are chosen because they grow faster but planting these non-endemic It tried to make the so there's not really one We don't have a main door, so you can step into the Most of the homes here in Happy I think it shows how peaceful it is here. The original plan was and dining space and a But instead, maybe it would be interesting to combine all these spaces into one. We built a big table that the dining table, and the We wanted to make the table feel light so we cantilevered it out the wall set. Hold up the table. Also hide and gas lines and serves as some storage. The water we use in the house and is clean enough to drink. It's charged with ions The pocket garden is a When we come home from to wash off the sand from our feet. The plants that we used They love water so they're The water from the bathrooms so the plants help filter We designed the opening of the and to help provide natural and for hotter days. These green chairs are from my dad and the other chairs We collected from the forest. I thought it would be interesting and it doesn't take away from - The animals are here because there are so I love animals so much. I think they all fit in - Sometimes there are animals We needed to have a place So we made this pantry space. We designed an oculus on the ceiling so we can let in some and allow the space to be ventilated. Above the enclosed rooms. We have loft spaces where guests can set up their The roof is oriented towards So there's a lot of good when there are no guests, with the cats, it's a and rest while looking at the mountains. The roof is made of cogon, The cogon insulates from the heat well and also lasts better than which comes from a leaf of a palm. We had to make the slope so it lasts longer. We tied the cogon to the perlins what the local suggested. They said it's how their their houses before. It's interesting to think how far back people have been Could be hundreds of years, could be thousands of years. Our bedroom is very simple. We just have cabinets on one side and a long desk on the other side. I wanted the desk to look so it is supported by just two legs. To provide stability, we concealed additional The lights in the bedroom are simple, linear lights facing the We tried to only have indirect house. In nature Most light is We tried to replicate as close to natural lighting Our bathroom was designed to be open but still protected from the elements. We brought in a big and it took us three months This is where my wife gave Water has a powerful healing effect. The water comes from a nearby spring. So every day when we we get charged from the This is the guest room, When I use this as an office, I do most of my design work here. I spend a lot of time here And when I get tired from for too long, I just look out the window and look at the mountains The light hits the trees nicely. We wanted the rooms to be able to open up if you wanted natural wind. So the carpenters I worked with helped build these After living here for a while, it really feels like the and raise my family. Being here, we like to live Now that I've been I understand more how to design for others and how my designs translate I feel lucky to be living We live here, but the before us and as they build I feel happy to share it with them. 'cause this is really their space and we're just trying &quot;Nakikitira lang kami&quot;