So can you starve the tumor cell of their And the answer is absolutely. It's an elegant, beautiful system. And when it's done it, you can't believe how Problem is Sanjay. Nobody is doing that. Welcome to Target Cancer Podcast. My name is Dr. Sanjay Juneja, I'm an oncologist today I'm very excited to have Dr. Thomas comes to metabolic stuff. And what does that mean? All this stuff that you hear about, are there with? Or what does it do to have a, like a keto And does that help? He's got over 150 publications. He's extremely respected in the metabolic So thank you for being here, Dr. Seyfried. Thank you very much for having me on your Of course. So I'm just gonna get straight to it, usually. The first question I get on social media where And caring about either themselves with their Ask the question, can I starve my cancer? And especially with limiting sugar and things We always have to go back to energy. Without energy, nothing can survive or grow. So you say to yourself we breathe air. We exhale CO2, we produce CO2 and water from You and I are having a conversation. We're talking obviously there's energy going our body and that allows us to do what we Now, if you and I were to take a cup of cyanide of us would have much energy. We would both fall and collapse right in front Hey, let me put it another way. If you and I both had tumors growing in our together. And someone would say, whoa, what a catastrophe. These two guys that think they know what they're cancer. So we're gonna take the tumor out and we're be fine. The cyanide would not kill the tumor cells. We say, whoa, what's going on? How is it possible that the cyanide killed And the answer is, the tumor doesn't use en It uses fermentation for energy. So Warburg did those experiments years ago, rat died, but not the tumor and the, and it using oxygen for their survival. So what are they? What are they living on? How are they growing and alive? If they're not using oxygen, and it turns is a form of energy that bipo bypasses oxygen. So that's interesting. They're fermenting, huh? What are the fuels that are driving their What are they using? And it's glucose. The sugar. Glucose and the amino acid glutamine. And those are the two fermentable fuels that So what the answer to your question is, yes, them? Okay? So if we know they're fermenting and we know and you know that they're only two fermentable target and take those two fermentable fuels And they die. So can you starve the tumor cell of their And the answer is absolutely. And then your question is if that's so simple, And the answer is because everybody thinks They're not thinking about what's keeping It's.. Right. It's not that complicated. So interesting. When you say, it's, it, this applies to really for some in particular? I went through all the major cancers. I spent a lot of time in our, my eye science cancers. But you have to go back and look at electron and you have to ask what is the, do the mitochondria or not? And every case, not. Respiratory systems, they're all like deficient So what I just described to you would be common Is it possible that the fermentation process Once you've broken a threshold of no longer and growth in a plastic, traditional, non that we are used to, blood flow and oxygen, in the environment of injury, which is why a different mechanism. Or do you think it was something that originated a required tool to even permit it to become or cancerous? Yeah. That goes back to the how you get how does What is responsible for the dependency on Because as Otto Warburg said, you can never respiration to fermentation. And the evidence for that is we rarely, if brain they just simply cannot sustain they fermentation. You see it in glial cells, of course. Which those cells can, we don't see cancers because those kinds of cells cannot they can't, Oh. So that, that observation in of itself prompts supports, exactly what you're saying. What are some of the things that. If you do deprive it of fermentation, would Obviously we've just said unlikely, the central there something that may take an insult that's those things? Oh, sure. If you go and try to knock out glucose and gonna harm the rest of the body. However, what we do with the cancer patients, a ketotic state ketosis. So all the normal cells of the body, brain, acids or ketone bodies. Once the patient is in therapeutic ketosis. Then you can lower blood sugars down to mi 0.5, millimole, nine milligrams per deciliter. You can push blood sugars down to incredibly of the cells are protected because they can to fermentation, fatty acids and ketones bodies They cannot be fermented, so they become non-fuel So obviously the answer to your question is target glucose and glutamine without first Once you do that, then the rest of the body become marginalized and killed off without And why is it that they can't use when you those to, to we know? You need a good mitochondria to burn ketones You need a good oxidative phosphorylation And the common phenotype of all major cancers So it's, and from the structure in evolutionary That's why when you look at the electron microscope mitochondria, they're not gonna be able to phosphorylation. They're gonna have to be de dependent on fermentation. Yeah. Very simple. Yeah. Not complicated. We pardon this interruption real quick. If you're enjoying this podcast or find it and how people see and think about cancer a subscribe, and especially a share so we broadly as possible. Thank you so much for listening. So this is just, me thinking out loud, but people listening like VEGF inhibitors or endothelial Basically growth factors where tumors are tumors that want blood flow, like renal cell Like a lot of that, a lot of those lung even Does that further inhibit the tumors, ability does that. How is, why is that, why does that work in If it doesn't work, it doesn't work. That's why they threw out all the anti-angiogenic Even Napoleone Ferrara who said, who was developed Cancer cell doesn't need all that stuff. And don't forget Angiogenes, a downstream So when the cell can't res respir HIF-1alpha, on glycolysis and runs vascular endothelial So all that stuff is downstream. You don't have, that's why Avastin and all they don't work. They don't work because the damn tumor cell the microenvironment the necessary fuels. And that's why when you give brain cancer treats somebody with Avastin. And what it does is it forces the cells out Into the neural parenchyma. You can't see them on PET scans or MRI, CAT Those damn cells can, and they're also phagocytic. So you gotta know that they can eat engulf and glutamine from the microenvironment. Even if you, if even if you try to stop the None of that stuff works, man. You gotta realize, how do you know that we Dying from cancer. So obviously all that stuff is not working on the essential proc issue that we're dealing Yeah. They don't, they definitely don't like necessarily we really have two groups that are seemingly so we use a lot of the TKIs now in combination But you're correct. Eventually there's a statute of, expiration So very interesting. And so that is a way that, it's almost like the sense that we've said before where what origin or the histopathology to some degree But really it's just a matter of, is it this exist without being able to use its mitochondria wherever it originated. It sounds like you have a high, degree of I guess if that's the right term. Just by putting yourself into that state. I think you have to recognize that we can diets to reduce glutamine. And glutamine is an essential amino acid for In fact, they call it a non-essential amino But really it's quite essential for our immune We need glutamine and glutamine is abundant. It's the most abundant amino acid in our body. So we have a situation here where our normal The same fuel used, the same fuel that the So we have to, that's why we developed the You can press glucose down consistently because So we eliminate the glucose issue, but we because if we're too aggressive, In targeting in its ability to pick up the dead cancer to infections and other kinds of adverse effects. So we use small doses of glutamine targeting Once the patient is in therapeutic ketosis, timing, and scheduling, and then we pull 'em and everything come back to a normalcy. But you've already slaughtered a significant system, the, our immune cells aren't killed They're just stunned. They're alive, but they're just like paralyzed. But once you pull the glutamine drug back in and picks up the dead corpses and we have While this process is taking place, and of don't remove the drug you will get the rescue but they're not coming back very fast because So they're there, but they're growing extremely And then once our immune system comes back inhibitor then we hit 'em again. With another small dose of glutamine inhibitor, rest of the cells in the body are generating So we're, the rest of the cells in the body slowly degrading the tumor cells that are It's an elegant, beautiful system. And when it's done It. You can't believe how well it works. Problem is Sanjay. Nobody is doing that. Yeah. I think that the first time I heard about Mukherjee. I think he's got a new project he's working I think more particularly for that, the glutamine, But gosh, that is really almost like getting oncologist. It, it makes sense on a cellular level and If it's really fast replicating shouldn't just to accelerate the replication process? You can do that. Our colleagues in Turkey do that ul. They use the lowest possible doses of chemo So you're not so you're not out of compliance. And once the body is in nutritional ketosis, minimal dosages, and it just slaughters these toxicity. My view is I'm not a against that because people doing this kind of a strategy. But, why would we ever want to put any level don't have to? Yeah. I'm not opposed to people who say, let me patient into a nutritional state of ketosis. Because the toxicity levels are significantly high. So this is why when we used our glutamine was considered too toxic when it was used Oh, it's toxic, but it's never been as toxic these horrible drugs. But once you put the patient in ketosis you and it's just like a whack man. You just swack those tumor cells because you, They're just like on the precipice, survival. And you hit 'em with another little bit of The brittle. Yeah. Wow. Yeah, they're very susceptible. But you gotta put the body in the right state You just can't go in there like a bull in You really need to know. The strategy of what we're talking about. So it's a graded process. Why we developed the press pulse therapeutic It's a process and you have to know how to and drugs used in the appropriate way. So you can't use glutamine inhibitor by itself. You can't use glucose inhibitor by itself. You can't use the diet by itself, most of You have to put the package together and know have powerful synergy without toxicity. And in what sequence. And that's, I think we, the. Yeah. Dosage, timing and schedule. This is where we are right now. We're perfecting dosage, timing, and scheduling it directly into the patients with my colleagues That's amazing. It's a work in progress. We have a very singular goal. How long can we keep stage four cancer patients Where, what or tissue of origin, how long of life? If they die at 98 years old when they had cured with no recurrence. But you can't know that. When you say, oh, you can cure, I don't know All I know is we.. All I know is if you can live far longer than of life, that's good in itself. And if you live to be 90 because you manage yourself very fortunate. But the goal is, how do we keep cancer paid? All these guys, oh, stage four, lung, brain, Many of them are out there doing well. Are they cured? I have no idea. But they're still alive longer than they would've That is something else. So I'm sure a lot of people are thinking this Is it conceivably correct if somebody said, the likelihood of having a neoplastic or cancerous ketosis state is low. Yes, absolutely. And how do we know that? We know that from historical records and aboriginal relative the chimpanzee, which are gene, he's, protein sequences. And the aboriginal. Tribes that existed have been examined at The Inuits from the Alaska and Canada regions, the ab Australian Aborigines. These folks never had cancer. And they're always in a semi-state of ketosis in carbohydrates. So when you're very low in carbohydrates and you're always in a low state of ketosis. You might have two you might have 0.5. Millimolar ketones circulating your blood a cancer if you have a very healthy mitochondria. The only way you can get cancer is damage So whether that comes from drugs, diets, or If you're in a state of ketosis, you're enhancing It makes it very rare. That's why Albert Schweitzer, the great humanitarian African. He never saw cancer in any of these patients. So he said, wait, no. What's going on? Why these Africans don't get cancer? Why the Inuits never? Now the problem is the Inuits are loaded with disease. As soon as the western diet comes in high, in a state of inflammation. Inflammation damages, respiration. So chronic inflammation can damage respiration Eliciting cancer. We have an obesity epidemic. In fact, obesity is now replacing smoking cancer. So what's going on with all that? Diet and lifestyle. It's all diet and lifestyle. You're not exercising, you're eating horrible and that puts you at risk for all kinds of And you're saying the inflammation, when I of error and inflammation obviously decreases an area. You're saying in addition to that, if not, allows an environment for the mitochondrial Yeah. And then what hap then what happens? So you put.. That's a chronic, it's chronic, it doesn't It takes sometimes years. For that constant inflammatory insult, whether all these, and then you combine that with in your body, and you put all that together. And then gradually ox oxidative phosphorylation During that process and when the oxphos becomes species. ROS. ROS are carcinogenic and mutagenic. So the mutations that you see in the nucleus, effects of the ROS produced by the damage So the cancer field, for the most part, are They're chasing effects. They're not focusing on the real issue. So you're looking at how many different kinds different cancers, which is largely irrelevant. All that stuff is largely irrelevant. The National Cancer Institute says cancer further from the truth. It's not a genetic, it's a metabolic disease. So why is everybody focusing on all these effects? You don't get the mutations until the mitochondria So you put carcinogen, you can see the mitochondria They bio luminesce actually, and you can see So it's a staged chronic process. It's very hard for the human body to get cancer. You can't believe how tough it is to get. We evolved to be completely resistant to cancer. So in order for us to get cancer, you have by exposure to all these kinds of things. Because the aboriginal tribes and the chimpanzees It's, it's just, yeah. It's hard to, we're just so deviated from It's so interesting hearing you say that is people ask, frequently, What can I do to reduce And I basically spit a rally off a line of that they recommend to do for cardiovascular They pretty much like overlap entirely. Am I hearing that? Possibly because of what's called, when we disease. If you smoke, if you have diabetes, gly oscillation, flow. Is that in some way a super imposition of Because the delivery of oxygen and then the Are the things that are propagating or inviting Yes. That's crazy. I think it's very fair. It's a very fair statement. And so that is why there's such an overlap, occurs to the impaired, blood flow because health. Yeah. So what when you said, processed foods, obviously of the reasons that can cause cancer. But say somebody was keto. But ate processed foods, like what is it about mitochondrial injury? Which you're saying is the, like you're saying, To turn into a neoplastic, cancerous, malignant Like you have to have that is like the limiting Okay. So yeah. That's the origin. That's the origin of cancer. And so. This damage to oxid, chronic damage to oxidative can happen by any number of provocative agents. What, when you say highly processed, what So the issue, of course, is that these are and they have no nutritional value. They're with minimal nutritional value, but Now, don't forget, we evolved. As a strave species, our whole existence on trying to... we move around. We, we had to bring tools with us to to get Our physiology and our genome is ultimately Because we're always starving now, we put Within the last 50, 7500 years into a state no nutritional value. And that puts, that again, causes your inflammation, cardiovascular disease. So you're absolutely right, Sanjay. This is all part of a continuum. And when we. In our metabolic approach to cancer management many of these folks come in with cardiovascular and all these other kinds of things. And by the way, that all goes away along with You're talking about a very dangerous situation You're talking and point in fact was the recent reducing cancer, dementia and cardiovascular And it's not the Mediterranean diet, it's foods, which are not part of the Mediterranean And all of those not. Not complicated. Not complicated. So it's not the olive oils and all that stuff No. Yeah. It's the absence of the highly processed carbohydrates. You wanna neutralize a Mediterranean diet, eat a couple of dunking Donuts and you can a Mediterranean diet real quick. That's too funny. And it's so true. Cause. Again, it's just why is it a coincidence that of heart attacks and strokes and they have Oh, and also they have like less cancer like, pegging. Bro, it's not just a coincidence there's a Those things almost always, yeah. Align or superimposed, I'll tell you, nobody really cares. Unless it's really pointed out like I just we have an obesity epidemic. If people really cared about preventing cancer, Yeah. Yeah. That's hard. I, you know what I think is just, Those things Like the concerns, which is, which hopefully motivated right now to be healthier and eat probably in a long time, like just hearing Cuz now when you understand and hear it, you're Again, that's why we're doing this, is that oh, your risk will be higher. It's this is what's happening. This is where you have the, potential for This is why this is your arteries getting all these sugars or whatever. Now it's No, I'm doubting my lunch now. Yeah. But the other, the problem is, of course, in every place in the United States. It's so convenient and not only that, we're Do you ever eat that subway sandwich? It's absolutely delicious. Yeah. It's, you ever have McDonald's hamburgers? I. All right. This stuff is like so good. A Taco Bell. Are you kidding me? Papa John's Pizza. These things are really tasty. They've been designed to make you want to They should put a skull and crossbones on every now and then you shouldn't. Just if you do it all the time, I'm not saying because I enjoy it myself too, occasionally. But the problem is I think so many folks in That if you do that, if you're not, if you're that, it's our lifestyle. We're not as active as we were. Those aboriginal tribes that I spoke about. Those guys are out working in the fields. They're doing stuff all the time. They're not sitting in traffic listening to computer, chowing down a big blueberry muffin. It's our, it's a combination of the foods and emotional stress that we have in the society. All of these things impact together to damage in some tissue, putting you at risk for either dementia thing. It's all part of the same process. Yeah. And we're paying the price. We're paying the price for tasty foods and Yeah. And that. That people need to know. And it's a it's almost like it's not our fault for those things because we needed to know across some whatever on the field. Like we needed to know that this was a high So it's like a bottleneck effect over evolution. That's now. We.. That's why they say with intelligence and for such. We're still stuck with the things that we But the availability is of abundant. I like what you said about tying in really like more physically active. It's not so much that we're saying like, oh, We're saying that it's that activity that you, I love that angle on explanation, on be healthy. It's the actual process. And one thing that I remember reading when was that the best kind of cardiovascular health And decrease your chance of heart attack and of cardio in a day is doing 10 minutes every rate up. And that goes into that concept of constant into some of these chains and stuff to that as ideally as regularly as possible. Absolutely. You're... you're making your mitochondria You're giving them the oxygen they need. You're increasing the blood flow. You're just generally making yourself healthier. I wouldn't Yeah, I agree with you a hundred I don't think it's just to lose weight. I think it's just to keep healthy. Yeah. Walking swimming, whatever you're capable Make your body need to make energy. Like at a moment make it dynamic. Make it, we are, yeah, we are very mobile We would cover great distances looking for It's, in the paleolithic period of our existence of civilizations. Think about how hard it was to get something You had to track down some animal. That was oftentimes bigger than you with in it up and eat it. And there's a lot of energy that goes into Imagine, the reward too. And you're gonna, yeah. And then you're gonna gather what a few ripe gonna gorge yourself on those things, and We actually survived in these products cuz We learned how to kill animals in a better Now we can farm them, or they put 'em out But we survived because we have Rick Potts We have this capability of adjusting to the species have, and our genome and our physiology conditions. And now we put ourselves in a new environment we evolved in. And we have all of these chronic, different So it's not that mysterious when you put everything No. And that becomes very clear what the situation So rather, and then we spend billions of dollars try to put a bandaid on cardiovascular disease things when we just have to keep our mitochondria issues in the first place. Yeah, that was very beautifully said. It's it makes sense on just a macroscopic The more you like, get distant. From the very cellular and behavioral, adaptations and thousands of years. What the things we had to get selected for store their fats well enough or didn't have fats. You're dead. Because that's that's the thing that's gonna The fact that we had all of this, it's almost And then to say, let's go ahead and now live distant from exactly what this very, I mean Yeah, no, you're absolutely right. And now you don't even, you can just dri, You can just drive up and they hand you the Yeah. You don't even have to get out of the car. Rather than walking in to get, do a donut and wait in this car line, and then some guy And puts a load of food into your lap. Thomas, I want it in my mouth. I don't want to take the wrapper off, take Then they wonder why we have obesity and cancer. What the hell's going on here? Oh, and, but again, one, the flip side, the hero or the anti-hero because it's like we're I know you're oh yeah. That's called being an adult or being mature It's, We are having to fight the very thing. That we are hardwired over time okay. I have, yes, I have one question though that it blew my mind and talking about shortcuts in this country, I hear that there are ways so it won't give you a sustained ketosis, or is there such a product that if I took. Six hours that I can have a ketosis without like I said, I want the burger in my mouth Is there a way I can achieve that without before I get ketosis? Listen no. The issue of course is yeah, we were talk, for years. And everybody's talking about can we get a Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was the big thing, right? So you really want that. Okay. You take one pill for breakfast, wash it down with water. Did you do that for three days? One pill for dinner? Yeah. And you do that for a week. That's hilarious. That is the holy rail of like marketing scheme. Cause it's true and you're not doing anything. But more seriously when you say can I get in some level of moderate ketosis that's really now from a lot of folks that are measuring the Glucose Ketone Index, which was for the was low and their blood ketones were elevated for low dose chemo or target and glucose and And we built that. But now we realize that, you can stay into carnivore, with Mediterranean diets, with don't eat too much and the foods that you these states of ketosis with not too much The only difficulty would be the restriction some people, who happen to be addicted to a powerful, addictive fuel. It's like cocaine. It's like opium. It's like nicotine. It can be very powerful on the brain, but We evolved not to have very much glucose in So we will fall back. Our bodies will recognize that we are back into these zones of ketosis. So we now, my colleague Dominic D'Augustino made ketone ester's solutions where you can but it goes away. It goes away. It's, you really want to get it to be sustained very therapeutic. And people can do this. At first we were saying, oh, you gotta do Yeah, that doesn't go over real well. Nobody after a couple of days, you're outta Hell, I'm. I'm gone from this, but with a carnivore diet, and things you can get into these and you you're there or not. So we we did it for the cancer patients, but not cancerous, not cardiovascular, none of the GKI because they know that if they're the healthiest state. So they're using it as a prevention, as a I want to use it, but yeah, GKI, Glucose Ketone You get it from the Keto Mojo and, and when get blood sugar in milligram per deciliter, So you have to divide the glucose by 18 and of ketones. Yeah. Wow. Yeah, it is too little, too much. The Keto Mojo guys made a little chip in the value and the, and you do the glucose strip button on the metering. Gives you the voila. You get the GKI right there. You don't even have to do the admin arithmetic Dr. Seyfried, you were amazing. I would love to have you back. This has been so edifying and now I almost years. But I, you definitely have catalyzed my thinking And and I'm excited to do some digging, but can people find you if they wanna read more We've published our papers in peer review Cureus is one of them, for our case reports. But anybody can look my name up and see the publication of Library of Medicine. Hi. Thank you so much.