Oumuamua is not the only interstellar interloper. If you follow space news, then you will have another planetary system. This object, discovered in 2017, was the first from the IAU, but interestingly, we actually So, what are these objects? How do we know they came from beyond our solar And what are they doing now? I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching we know about Oumuamua and the other interstellar There are a lot of predictions in the science pass through our solar system. Some think we regularly see visitors, with of Neptune. That seems like a lot, so let's figure out The first thing to understand, is that our of Neptune. Beyond Neptune is the Kuiper Belt, and beyond The Oort Cloud contains potentially trillions our Sun. Some of the comets that we see that pass by this Oort Cloud with their extremely elliptical years to do so. Some of the comets we see from the Oort Cloud were it not for massive third bodies which gravity so that they fall towards the inner These third bodies are often other stars. You see, the solar system is not stationary constantly moving, orbiting the galaxy. As we move in our orbit, we cross paths with stars. Even distances of a couple of light years crashing down towards the Sun. On the other hand, it can also be enough for system altogether, joining the ranks of the found in the galaxy. As an Oort Cloud like body is likely not unique are constantly being lost and others are being day, although generally speaking, what we've the majority of comets in our Oort Cloud did quite similar in composition. As the solar system travels through the galaxy, that have been pulled away from their original They often approach from Vega because that's through the galaxy. While the Sun does capture some of these objects, that they pass right through the solar system, as they pass by the gravity of the Sun. Oumuamua is one such object. It was originally thought to be a comet when classification C/2017 U1, but upon further A/2017 U1 when no coma around the comet could get a reclassification like that. Once the orbit of Oumuamua had been established, too fast for it to be in orbit around the We say that the object like this one has a Because its velocity will see it leave the come from the solar system to begin with. The International Astronomical Union had the of object just for Oumuamua. They decided upon I for interstellar, so Oumuamua's Oumuamua is unusual for a number of other As it is like an asteroid, it must have originated how did it get ejected and make its way to Is it from a collision of huge proportions? Alternatively, maybe it really is a comet, over millions or billions of years before meaning that the volatile materials typically The other weird thing is its shape. I have always seen Oumuamua referred to as a kilometre long and only around 35m across, resolve more than a pinprick of light. It's been given this shape because its brightness This is because we receive more light from our perspective. However, this could apply just as easily to It also appears to be tumbling rather than Its shape and rotation could lend weight to Another weird attribute is that it accelerated but more than it should have if it really So now some scientists think it might be comet gas rather than gas and dust like we normally However mysteriously, no coma or tail was To be sure, the Spitzer Infrared Space Telescope on it, but couldn't, meaning this object Typical comets have comas and tails that Spitzer If there was an acceleration, but it's not This point in particular got people thinking maybe there's more of an alien origin to This theory received more credibility when shinier than a typical comet, meaning it reflected However, before you get your hopes up too emanating from the object, and nothing was Even the faintest half watt signal would have So, at the end of the day, we don't have way, and it is now too far away for us to you decide for yourself. It's intriguing though, nonetheless! But as I mentioned, we've also had other this next one is a little more conventional. Being the second "I" object, it's been Zooming in on Borisov reveals that this object the size of 14 Earths across. We couldn't see it with the naked eye though, the orbit of Mars in 2019. Borisov was roughly the same size as Oumuamua, After its closest encounter with the Sun, This is reasonably normal for a comet of this Also, it's composition, while uncommon, Because it passed through the solar system trajectory wasn't hugely affected by the So overall, apart from its I classification, Now moving on to some other interesting interstellar C/1980 E1 was originally a solar system object The furthest its orbit used to take it was However, it passed a little too closely to Jupiter's gravity accelerated it just enough so this object will eventually become an interstellar system in a few million years. On the other hand, we have had the opposite their velocities slowed down enough by the and locked into our solar system. Again, I mention Jupiter specifically because aren't massive enough to do this, and it the comet that does the slowing down or speeding Machholz 1 and Hyakutake C/1996 B2 are potentially planetary system. The giveaway for objects like these are their compositions compared to the majority of other This makes them interesting and viable targets have done all the hard work for us in capturing arm's reach. There's one more giveaway that an object And that is if it is orbiting retrograde to An example of an object like this is 514107 What makes this object especially interesting other interstellar objects we would expect It could be that the volatile materials have meaning it would have been captured very early Its orbit is also unusual in that it is locked Now, if there really are plenty of interstellar its clear that we need better equipment for One of the new Vera C Rubin Observatory's When it begins operations in 2021, it will the sky for all sorts of asteroids, comets Want to know more about this impressive project Check out my video I made about it here. So, there we have it. Although Oumuamua is beyond our reach, there to go to visit the next one at a moment's What secrets will we find on objects like Only time will tell. But for now, subscribe for more space videos, on interstellar visitors. Thanks for watching! And thanks to my patrons and members who support and want to support the video production process have your name added to this list. All the best, and see you next time.