We tend to think that being educated But actually, being a person who is well educated than just going to school and get I'm gonna give you those 10 things that refined. My dear elegant ladies, First things first, this video is not about pretending that we're not and we're just this video is made as guidance for you in life to enrich yourself and And this leads me to the first point, because the first point is all about but in reality, you're not. And I think we all have met those types smart they are. They discuss specific topics just to or let's say when they use fancy deep down, you probably understand that. They probably don't even know what it actually means. The point is that when you are usually you are overcompensating So if you're there trying to show the so intelligent, most likely, everybody's Point number two. What gives away education in someone not when they have just done the year in and year out. It gives a person a lot of depth when they have done loads of different And all of these things is part you can be the best but if you haven't had experience For this reason, ladies, I really do recommend that you always that's gonna enrich your life experiences. Don't be that person who stops in same old same old thing year in and we're gonna continue talking a little actually deserves its own point. Talking about having variety in the So someone who is well-traveled is person, because you have been different cultures, different and ways of doing things. It's not necessarily about because you can have only but if every place have that means you are seeking out different types of people Now compare it as an example to some rich kids, born into a very wealthy family, but all they see is always the same St. Tropez in summer, and Is that person truly well-educated or really experienced the real world? Point number four, I think we all know that being well And there is this kind of stereotype that But the truth is that even though But what about also the things I think there's always this list of yes, to be smart you must But I do think it's variety in the things that you read, but also read the things that truly interested in. Maybe your biggest passion history or gardening. Why not just go all in on those because I think that's gonna motivate to feel the pressure that if you But one thing is for sure, whether or if let's say you're it is important to keep feeding In particular information that you keep enriching yourself, your mind, you're getting new creative and it is so important but also to have things to talk to Otherwise, you always stay the same Number five, an educated person definitely has some going on for themselves. I'm sure you you're trying to have a conversation to talk to them about because they don't And it's okay. Not everyone over performer and always There is a charm with people who But then there comes this limit they literally fill their Well, besides the basics of Netflix I'm not saying that everyone should activities going on for but have at least one thing that you that you dedicate some It's going to give you more you're gonna have more things but it's also so incredibly healthy When you are doing something, it's gonna stimulate you in a way, not even the best show on Netflix Number six, an educated person is regularly we don't want to just do cultural educated and smart. We want to attend those events So for this reason, I would like to If you don't know, then maybe you should start trying out discover what you truly like. Me personally, I love going and seeing a good or just going to the theater in I always leave with so and I just find it to be But the point is that you shouldn't just a blue moon, the point is being Let's say you have one day a month where a museum, going to an art doing something else that is Culture is important for our for inspiration. And when you are Point number seven. So this one deserves a little quick story area where I used to live back home but not like in the highend suburbs, more like in the mid to That means I went to some really wasn't really the highest level. So when it was time for I decided that I wanted to study in the kind of fancy type of high school. I was able to get in because I had good I realized that, wow, the education here is completely different of education that I have been used to. What was very interesting at this elite they were teaching me analytical thinking. And that's something that I quickly there was no pressure of having your own But here, they were teaching it to me in a way where mind and use your analytical mind. they always practice analytical thinking. An educated person would therefore always try to analyze answers in their own mind and draw conclusions. And that's How to question things, how to ask the right questions, how to draw the right summaries, how to develop a mind where you having a broader approach in life, because you're not just coming across running it with it. No, you're always able to apply but also being able to really things that people usually It's about really knowing how to think, how to use your mind and how to digest they know exactly how to analyze. Point number eight. Of course, there will always be situation but when a person is overusing that does come across quite uneducated. I don't know too many times. thinking for yourself and say something Because it's easy to be just like, oh, I don't know and that you You never activate your brain, but you have to apply a curious mind. You have to become a little miss Google don't know but you might wonder That should be part of your You always Google things. You don't settle just for, let's say in a conversation where then listen instead carefully in what I think always being attentive and so important and really does signal Number nine. Now me personally, whenever I meet someone who I know seminars, workshops, you name it, they Now of course we are talking but many people think that, okay, you name it. I don't need to educate Maybe I read a little self-help book I personally believe that no, you always have to keep educating whether it is for personal it doesn't really matter. It's about always investing in knowledge. I'm so passionate about because you always get So that's why when I created my program, Secrets of the Elite Woman, I really wanted the ladies to develop benefits in life because there is but we don't tap into those things because take us to that level. And that's Secrets of the Elite Woman is about. If you want to find out more www.LevelUpSecret.com In this program, I really do teach a woman the most if you want to level up If you want to position yourself And one of those things, which is part of being an educated And that's also something Secret of the Elite Woman. And there are so many misconceptions There is a reason why it's so confusing rules out there. People who they're lucky that usually they're not all rich families, by the way. I have seen some bad, bad table manners, even from wealthy people. you really need to invest in your education when it comes to table manners, because that is a big what's funny is that YouTube has this So it knows you inside out probably So it actually knows what video So I suggest you hop on over to this in the comments below. Did YouTube actually guess what you I will see you in that video.