This is my home server. You might remember it from this video that It's cheap, doesn't consume a lot of power and has enough storage for system Unfortunately, after around a year of use, one which prompted me to look for a new case. I had some parts left over and it kind of spiraled out of control from there. So this is my new home server. It has 18TB of hard drive storage, and 8 SATA ports in total. It also has a 10 Gbit SFP+ LAN connection, and all of this is installed, provisioned, using Ansible and cloud-init. This might be one of the most overkill And if two of my previous on practical setups that don't break the bank This build went a little bit off the rails. As I mentioned, I used some parts that So I wasn't really concerened But I will definitely mention sensible That being said, if you need a file server you probably don't need something like that, and my previous server build Oh, and one more thing before we get started - This video is going to be about If you want to know about the how I deploy and configure check out this video right here (here) It should be out in about a month if you're First off, let me tell you a little And what I need from it in First of all, I need my And that eliminates both rack Rack cases often have That are optimized for maximum airflow (1U fan noise intensifies) And ATX tower cases take too So that's why I decided to go with Even though you are limited to one PCI express That's not really a deal-breaker for me. Second, I want my server to be performant enough. I don't run any virtual machines and But it should at least be able to handle I also run Nextcloud, Bitwarden, Unifi So I need something that could handle that. That's the reason I didn't go Like HP Microserver, Synology or QNAP. They're great products with their own use Third, despite going with a small form Many cheap miniITX motherboards Which just isn't enough for a storage server. Last but not least, I want my home server While still fulfilling all And I think I've found a platform that is the Size, performance, SATA This is ASRock Rack C236 WSI. It's an Intel Skylake miniITX That has 8 SATA ports and It's an old motherboard, and it's I bought it for 185 euros And that's a lot of money for But it's pretty much the only miniITX motherboard I paired the motherboard And even though it's a pretty old CPU, the performance is still more And yes, the i3 Skylake CPUs do And you don't need a Xeon CPU for that. As an added bonus, i3-6100 also supports Now, the fans of AMD might want to ask me Why I went with a crappy Intel CPU, And the reason is pretty simple As I already said, Asrock's C236 WSI was the And apart from that, Skylake hardware accelerated video encoding and decoding, Which is good for Plex and Jellyfin. Now RAM is where this is where the whole &quot;I Because it just so happened that Literally laying around in my basement. I bought them for my desktop ITX build Since those were the only RAM sticks Now that I have a different I've been trying to sell these, but to no avail. Which is good, because now I If I didn't have 32 gigs of ECC memory laying 8 gigabytes is more than enough for a server like Hard drives are probably the most And here you have three options. If you want cheap drives, get these. These are 6TB WD Elements external drives Which you can just take apart and use in The problem with those drives is that Which makes them slower and probably You should definitely stay away from Because the resilver times are That being said, they're And go for as little as 90 I'm cheap, so that's what I went with. I've been running these drives for 1 year If you want good and These are the same WD Elements Those should be CMR drives, But they're also harder to get. Also, depending on when Western Digital might have made them Now, if you want to go balls to And don't care about the money, get these. These are WD Red Plus, flagship prosumer drives They also cost almost twice as But for that price you get the NASWare firmware Now, if you're gonna be using You don't have to go for the same size You can start with just one or two drives, And then gradually buy more and There is only one thing that you need to consider: Your parity drive, the one you're going Should be as large as your biggest data drive. So in my case, I got three 6TB SMR drives, Which will mostly be used And I also got a 1TB SSD for Time Machine backups. I pulled that SSD out of my Sandisk Extreme And so far it's been working out pretty well. I've also got a 128gb SATA SSD as my boot drive. It's the same drive that I used all And it still chugs along just fine, Next, we've got the case. I decided to re-use Streacom DA2 that But you can definitely get a cheaper With six 3.5&quot; hard drive slots. Because of its modular rail system, Streacom AND up to twelve 2.5&quot; drives. That's 18 drives in a system that Obviously, my motherboard doesn't even have I've also ordered some extra To mount the additional hard drives at Remember I said that Noctua's 140mm fans suck? Well, apparently they suck so Which is once again good, because now I'm also going to be using This case can fit coolers that But I need the space for hard drives, And the L9i is way enough to cool In my previous NAS I used a It's a passively cooled super Which would absolutely not cut it in my new build. So instead I went with Corsair SF450, Which is a small form factor 450W power It's also modular, which makes cable And there's going to be a lot of cables to manage. For the network card, I got this. You might wonder why I need another network adapter if I already have two LAN Well, that's because it's not This is Mellanox Connect-X3, This will let me have a and take advantage of that 1TB I'm going to make a separate video So make sure to subscribe if One thing that I really wish my old server had Sure, SSH is fine for most things, but it only works if you can boot If your operating system doesn't boot, or You need to take the server out Connect it to the monitor and the keyboard, Which is really annoying. A lot of server motherboards have a It gives you access to a web UI where Change the boot order or reinstall the OS Without connecting the computer But this motherboard is a workstation motherboard, Plus, even if I did find a With 8 SATA ports and a remote management port, it would probably cost three times as much. So instead, I use this. This is a Raspberry Pi with a USB-C splitter The capture card connects to And the USB-C splitter is connected PiKVM gives you a nice web interface where you And even upload ISOs and boot from them, Since Raspberry Pi can also pretend As you'll see in the next video, I also use it to automaically mount So the only thing I actually need to do This thing saves lives. It can add remote management to any Compared to a server The whole setup looks pretty clunky But you can just hide it somewhere in the case There's also a Kickstarter for PiKVM That doesn't need a USB-C splitter or an HDMI So since I've done my fair share Building in this thing wasn't too difficult. I used the vertical brackets to put a I think two 140mm fans are more And the components seem to be running pretty cool. I also had to use some standoffs for the PSU and and the 2.5&quot; drives just barely Which is oddly satisfying. I used rubber grommits between the vertical rails And the hard drives themselves And I also put some rubber bands Now I also wanted to hide the Since you need a total of 4 cables for it to work, It could create a pretty So I decided to separate the server part and I think it worked out pretty good, But I can tell that accessing the Pi in Would be a real pain in the butt. I might find another way later. Overall, I'm really happy with this build. It's a tight little box, but For 3 more hard drives and 10 more SSDs It also looks pretty cool. Now we're coming to the cost. And well, all I can say is when This thing doesn't score very high. My first build was focused on cutting costs and It costed me 256EUR My second build costed quite a bit more, I paid 481EUR for the whole build, including This built cost me almost twice I'm obviously still including the prices So 755EUR is about as much If you were to build something Is 755EUR a lot of money? Well, depends. In and of itself? Yes, it is. But for a small form factor NAS with That's actually pretty cheap. Synology,'s 8 bay NAS costs 1000EUR, and That would cost you 200EUR extra. And QNAP's 8-bay NAS is 1300 euros, which They do have their advantages of course. You don't have to set anything up With no need for manual The drive bays are also much And if a drive fails, the NAS will tell you There are also a lot of refurbished HP MicroServers, Dell PowerEdges, If those solutions work Just because I built something else, Unfortunately, can't go over each and And tell you exactly why my But rest assured, I did go through And ended up with building my own NAS instead. It might not be the most cost-effective, or the most performant, or even But I think it's perfect for me. It's small, quiet, powerful enough has 10 gig networking and plenty of room And I seriously hope that this is going to be