I saw a UFO once. I was eight or nine, playing in the street with a friend and we saw a featureless silver disc We watched it for a few seconds, and then it shot away incredibly quickly. Even as a kid, I got angry it was ignoring We ran inside to tell the grown-ups, and they were skeptical -- you'd be skeptical too, right? I got my own back a few years later: one of those grown-ups told me, &quot;Last night I saw a flying saucer. I was coming out of the pub I stopped him there. (Laughter) Psychologists have shown to tell the truth. It's easy to fool ourselves. I saw something, but what's more likely -- that I saw an alien spacecraft, or that my brain misinterpreted Ever since though I've wondered: Why don't we see At the very least, why don't we see life It's a puzzle, and I've discussed it from different disciplines And there's no consensus. Frank Drake began searching so far, nothing. And with each passing year, this nonobservation, this lack of evidence because we should see them, shouldn't we? The universe is 13.8 billion years old, give or take. If we represent the age then our species came into being 31st December. Western civilization Extraterrestrial civilizations Imagine a summer civilization developing a level of technology but tech based on accepted physics though, I'm not talking wormholes just an extrapolation That civilization could program to visit every planetary If they launched the first probes then before breakfast same day, they could have colonized the galaxy. Intergalactic colonization it just takes longer. A civilization from any one could have colonized our galaxy. Seems far-fetched? Maybe it is, but wouldn't aliens engage put worldlets around a star collaborate on a Wikipedia Galactica, or just shout out So where is everybody? It's a puzzle because we do expect After all, there could be maybe more. You don't need any special knowledge and I've explored it And I've found they often in terms of the barriers if a planet is to host And they usually identify Habitability -- that's the first barrier. We need a terrestrial planet where water flows as a liquid. They're out there. In 2016, astronomers confirmed of the closest star, Proxima Centauri -- so close that Breakthrough Starshot We'd become a starfaring species. But not all worlds are habitable. Some will be too close to a star some will be too far away Abiogenesis -- the creation of life from nonlife -- that's the second barrier. The basic building blocks of life amino acids have been found in comets, complex organic molecules water in exoplanetary systems. The ingredients are there, we just don't know and presumably there will be worlds The development of technological Some say we already share our planet A 2011 study showed that elephants A 2010 study showed that an octopus in captivity 2017 studies show that ravens wonderful, clever creatures -- but they can't contemplate and if we vanished today, they wouldn't go on why should they? Evolution doesn't have There will be worlds where life Communication across space -- Maybe advanced civilizations rather than outer space, or engineer at small distances Or maybe they just don't want with a potentially more advanced There'll be worlds where, civilizations either stay silent As for the height of the barriers, your guess is as good as anyone's. In my experience, when people sit down and do the math, they typically conclude there are But then we're back to the puzzle: By definition, UFOs -- including the one I saw -- are unidentified. We can't simply infer they're spacecraft. You can still have some fun Some say a summer civilization and seeded Earth with life ... others, that we're living a zoo. Yet others -- that we're living in a simulation. Programmers just haven't Most of my colleagues though we just need to keep looking, and this makes sense. Space is vast. Identifying a signal is hard, and we haven't been looking that long. Without doubt, we should It's about understanding It's too important a question to ignore. But there's an obvious answer: we're alone. It's just us. There could be a trillion Is it plausible we're the only creatures Well, yes, because in this context, we don't know whether In 2000, Peter Ward and Don Brownlee Remember those four barriers that people use to estimate Ward and Brownlee said Let's look at one possible barrier. It's a recent suggestion by David Waltham, a geophysicist. This is my very simplified version of Dave's much more We are able to be here now because Earth's previous four billion years of good weather -- ups and downs but more or less clement. But long-term climate if only because astronomical influences can push a planet There's a hint our moon has helped, and that's interesting because the prevailing theory is that the moon came into being when Theia, a body the size of Mars, crashed into a newly formed Earth. The outcome of that crash could have been We ended up with a large moon and that permitted Earth and a slow rotation rate. Both factors influence climate and the suggestion is that they've helped Great for us, right? But Waltham showed that if the moon things would be different. Earth's spin axis There'd be episodes not good for complex life. The moon is just the right size: big but not too big. A &quot;Goldilocks&quot; moon around a barrier perhaps. You can imagine more barriers. For instance, simple cells came into being but perhaps the development needed a series of unlikely events. Once life on Earth and sophisticated genetic structures, and sex, new opportunities opened up: animals became possible. But maybe it's the fate of many planets for life to settle Purely for the purposes of illustration, let me suggest four more barriers that people said blocked the path Again, purely for the purposes suppose there's a one-in-a-thousand chance Of course there might be and some chances will be better Equally, there might be more barriers and some chances Let's just see If the galaxy contains a trillion planets, how many will host a civilization projects such as Breakthrough Starshot? Habitability -- right sort of planet the trillion becomes a billion. Stability -- a climate that stays benign for eons -- the billion becomes a million. Life must start -- the million becomes a thousand. Complex life forms must arise -- the thousand becomes one. Sophisticated tool use must develop -- that's one planet in a thousand galaxies. To understand the universe, they'll have to develop the techniques that's one planet in a million galaxies. To reach the stars, capable of discussing using complex grammar -- one planet in a billion galaxies. And they have to avoid disaster -- not just self-inflicted That planet around Proxima Centauri, last year it got blasted by a flare. One planet in a trillion galaxies, just as in the visible universe. I think we're alone. Those colleagues of mine often see a barrier ahead -- bioterror, global warming, war. A universe that's silent because technology itself to the development Depressing, right? I'm arguing the exact opposite. I grew up watching &quot;Star Trek&quot; and I saw a UFO once, so this idea of cosmic loneliness But for me, the silence of the universe is shouting, &quot;We're the creatures who got lucky.&quot; All barriers are behind us. We're the only species the only species capable And if we learn to appreciate how important it is to look after our home and to find others, how incredibly fortunate we all are humanity might survive for a while. And all those amazing things we dreamed aliens that could be our future. Thank you very much. (Applause)