Our main characters are back, but they won't be back for long. My name is Avery, call me up because I'm ready to serve. [bangs table] I gotta somehow wedge so I might as well Today we're continuing our lore week of the entire storymode called Dance with the Swan. And there is a lot to cover in this one, so hold on tight. In this video, discuss some theories that we have, and then I'll give you some information If you're not familiar with the lore I do have a lore video but if you're a businesswoman like me, and you don't have that kind of time Wanderlust brings a human girl, and introduces her to Just Dance coaches that end up getting kidnapped They build a team and Jack Rose, who is This culminates in a battle where she is defeated At the end of the game, Sara returns back to the real world Or is it? [chuckles] Let's pick up where we left off and get into the story of Just Dance 2024. The way the story begins In the first shot, we see Discoball who, if you don't know, But he throws off his coat and it's actually Wanderlust dancing through the lobby which is classified as The Traveler's Lair in the tagline of one of the backgrounds This map introduces the story It introduces characters of the story, Brezziana, Mihaly, And all of their introductions At the end, Wanderlust tosses to invite her back into But shockingly, and she now has taken control of Discoball A neat fact about this map is if you watch Sara's first introduction. As she's waving to the camera, her background glitches slightly It's a pretty neat touch. I feel like Just Dance always puts some really interesting details The next map in the story We start in a very familiar place, which is Sara in the real world And a quick side note, all of her friends here Like look, there's Felix. He's the one that asked me to be a coach. And there's Redoo, This is Benjamin, he's a character This was a really cute touch Wanderlust offers Sara through the TV screen. But Sara has also been tricked as Night Swan has impersonated Wanderlust and just sent Sara the Night Discoball. Sara gets sucked back into but she's brought straight as she attempts Say it with me kids. Serves. Night Swan almost acts and this is symbolized by Night Swan her first solo map in Just Dance. The map culminates but being surrounded by Night Swan's Flow and ultimately captured. It turns out Wanderlust and vows to get Our next map is Stronger, who is now working as a lifeguard She sees a vision of Night Swan returning and puts her costume back on Brezziana dances alongside the people and fights them off During the bridge, while they go to the bathroom. [chuckles] That's a true friend right there. Thanks, Brezziana. Before anyone says anything, I know that they're changing rooms, but it's funnier to think Just let me have this. At the end of the map, she successfully fought off Never Be Like You, starts in Mihaly's room of Night Swan on the wall. That's right, everyone! Their pronouns are they/them! That's another win for the enbies! [dance music playing] Also, why does Mihaly have a poster of Night Swan on the wall I actually got an answer for this, Mihaly goes back to their meditative state where we initially met them in Rather Be and returns back This is one of my favorite maps because I feel like Mihaly has the most character development In Rather Be, they look very concentrated and maybe even a little nervous, but in Never Be Like You, they look It's really cool to see for a game that has no words. During the bridge, and transform into a panda. And no, I don't want to talk about it. Go back to sleep, honey. Mihaly Panda isn't real. They can't hurt you. As Mihaly starts to feel they fight off the bad vibes Why did I write bad vibes? I don't think that's what Flow is called in the Just Dance Universe, On to our next map, Treasure, And if you remember, A portal opens in the background and Wanderlust calls but Jack can't hear him In the reflection Night Swan shows Jack a vision to show him An alternate, dark version and his costume is mirrored Jack dances with multiple versions as well as a sea of Jacks in the crowd, showing he's now a star in Eternyx. Eternyx being the Danceverse I actually think this vision because even though she doesn't approve she realistically knows so she's playing off of that. She's crazy. I love her. At the end of the map, and he denies this future for himself. However, as the map comes to a close, Jack still has no idea We finally reach the climax of the story Wanderlust, Brezziana, and jump through the portal Sara looks like she's being held captive and Night Swan is looking scary, as usual. Wanderlust works to free Sara, but she transforms into her dark form and traps him the same way Sara moves on to Brezziana, who is doing the same choreography However, she also fails and is captured. Lastly, we have Mihaly, and manages to summon The Panda Unfortunately, Mihaly is not successful, but right before they're captured, they send off an SOS that makes its way making him aware of what's happening. This is my favorite part because as Mihaly sends the entire HUD disappears to let you focus on that small cutscene I just thought it was and I'm really glad they did it. It made the story feel At the end of the map, our entire group has converted And listen, I'm all for heroes winning and prevailing, but they do look so good Like, hello, this makeup on Sara. Oooo! The final map in the story and can I just say, best cover I've ever heard of, like, The artist did an amazing job on this one. Go check it out. It's actually on Spotify We're back on Night Swan's ship with our newly transformed Night Coaches Everyone dances on the ship together as it prepares to take off for... somewhere. By the end of the map, to save his friends, but he's too late. Night Swan ship has already taken off. And that's where they left the story. Just Dance loves I do have a few lore theories but I want to read what the Lore Guardian And if it's not clear, for future games in this video. So don't worry about me giving you This is what the Lore Guardian had to say. Damn, Jack Rose got called out. And if you were wondering why Mihaly has we got an answer for that too. Thank you, Aurore, for clearing that up. She also said, You'd think I'd be sad after all, she is named after me. But I haven't lost faith If there's one thing it's leave and come back again later. The Lore Guardian also sent us These riddles took me so long to think on. Like, you could hear Obviously, I don't know but I fell on two outcomes. For Night Swan and Sara, I think the trait they both have It seems like both of them Sara by her friends and Night Swan But I'm not 100% set Now for Jack Rose and Wanderlust, They're both gaaaay-reat friends! I personally think to be independent from their parents. It's been established Si'ha Nova and The Traveler, Si'ha is a deity and The Traveler which is a power that is shared Wanderlust, because he passed and also Night Swan. I'd imagine it's kind of hard to live up when they're so powerful. And look at the contradictions. Jack Rose is currently and Wanderlust is kind of The only thing I really have is a tagline on one of the avatars featuring Wanderlust The tagline reads, Don't I get a say?&quot; So it kind of seems like the expectations their parents have set There's also another Jack avatar which reads, &quot;No one's perfect, but mom says we're But who knows what any of this means? Thank you guys so much and I'll see you in the next one. Bye! [vine boom] Who is we? There's another spawn of Night Swan? Up until now, So I've been yapping about this theory I think the sibling is Cygnus Firstly, Cygnus is from Eternyx, and he shares similar moves in Beggin' I dunno. I see it! But even if Night Swan is disappointed it does kind of seem like Jack Rose After all, he is the one when we meet her And if you wanted you could say that the map of trying to win his mother's affection. Of course, I don't know I wasn't given it, but I would love And then maybe we can revisit our answers Until then, everyone wave goodbye Bye. Thank you so much for the entire story of Just Dance 2024. I'm so curious how the Just Dancers And also I'm curious if we're getting like or if it's just going to continue on I think a trilogy would be nice because I would like to get like Not that I don't love the Just Dancers. I just want to mix it up a little bit. Like what if they all have kids and then their kids Oooooo! Get me on the lore team. My brain's too big. If you enjoyed this video, and check out Also, of course, for giving so much information And Amberfall, our meme queen, I hope you'll join us for the last video where I delve into the lore You know, a totally normal map, And I mean this genuinely when I say this. I think Can't Tame Her out of any of the stories this week. I'm not saying that because I'm the coach. It really spun my head when I read it. So I hope you'll come back tomorrow Thank you so much for watching Bye. Today we're continuing our lore week Today we're continuing our lore week- Lore week. Today we're con- [laughs and claps] Good job!