Richard Ramirez, aka, The Night Stalker, He growls, "You maggots make me sick!" don't understand me. You are not expected to...I That's one reason this man was called "evil". he was evil, perhaps doing the devil's bidding. much like other maniacal serial One of the categories that serial killers murderers who, for some messed up reason, think They would usually say they are working getting rid of the human garbage, etc, but Hired for what, you might wonder? More of if not entirely, given the "I don't believe in the hypocritical, I need to look beyond this room to see the the paranoid cowards; truly trematodes of the If you're wondering what a "trematode'' Ramirez blasted society for what he those that "kill for policy, clandestinely which kill in the name of God or country." then. Maybe you're right in that governments of power have done some rotten things, but how does worst crimes in the history of the USA? On June 28, 1984, a 79-year-old woman named in northeast Los Angeles. Police believed she'd property and attacked her with a knife. The immediately think this was a break-in gone wrong. Ramirez didn't strike again until almost 22-year-old Maria Hernandez. She survived, but he shot and killed a 30-year old woman. the space of an hour even in violent LA was a big was lurking in the night hours, describing Some called him "The Valley Intruder" in the He was just getting started. Vincent and Maxine Zazzara. When police arrived with the eyes removed. The same kind of gun they had another clue. That was the footprint in a About a month and a half later, he killed another both in their 80s. He beat them viciously cord to torture one of them. Amazingly, women died soon after from her injuries. He'd used some lipstick he found in the house to He'd also drawn a pentagram Just one day after, he entered the home This time he left no dead bodies, although "Don't look at me, or I'll cut out your eyes." a telephone cord when he thought he saw electrical alone after that, believing that Jesus had made Did he really believe that? he had tied up, he demanded to know where all the to tell the truth, saying, "Swear on Satan." elderly woman. Footprints were found on back to a pair of Avia sneakers. Two weeks another elderly married couple. Again, Ok, so what were the police looking at? was a little bit unusual in the sense that the killers have no interest whatsoever in monetary the impetus is gratification, not Then there were the Satanic symbols and that of his murder scenes with "Jack the Knife", Ripper. Like the never-caught Jack in London, But in the terminology of FBI profilers, or at least not very organized. Organized police tactics and go to great pains to avoid the guy next door with a good job, rather than If Ramirez was what criminologists call show it. He left footprints behind when a more He was also seen by some of his According to the FBI's serial killer catching Silence of the Lambs - this killer didn't He was a bit of everything. He obviously He was no doubt a sadist, given how he tortured On top of that, serial killers, or at least sometimes meticulously. With this killer, it was His crimes came one after the other. a family home. He killed the man immediately, again he made her "Swear on Satan" as he asked her he didn't just not attack the child, but he sent Police then got a break. Yet again, after and it was almost certainly from a pair of particular style wasn't all that common They found out that very few pairs of that In fact, to get that size in LA was almost city had received a pair. They could also But, there's a good reason the police don't The reason, of course, is if matters of will be tipped off. It goes without saying that Sure, police release sketches of criminals because they know the person, but cops also hold a lot and another is so during interrogation, the perpetrator could possibly know. Dianne Feinstein, held a press conference and "Without a doubt, Mayor Feinstein made a big about as foolish as the Nazis publicly releasing So, what did Ramirez do after watching that on them to the Golden Gate Bridge and throwing them for the cops. Imagine they'd have arrested Ramirez were pretty much the four-leaf clover of footwear. details of the LA crimes because of a wasn't meant to talk about the details in public. stating the obvious. She said, "This is a very night and kills at random. Somewhere in the Bay or a home to this vicious serial killer." he didn't throw away the gun like just About a week later, he was skulking this time in Orange County. He was chased away the car and part of the license number. He had That same night, Ramirez entered another He tied up the man's wife, beating her and He left her alive and told her to inform the The man actually survived after surgery. but despite Ramirez's best efforts a fingerprint was taken from the rear-view mirror. recently acquired a new machine. That was a $25 Police could run a fingerprint matched with fingerprints from other crimes. While it's said this solved the case, that isn't from all the stuff that Ramirez had stolen from and some of the items police had a trail were told was named Ricardo or perhaps just Rick. been taken after he was arrested for stealing a "We know who you are now, and soon everyone They knew they were looking for a 25-year old What they didn't know is this kid and on top of other traumas he Not that many people knew Ramirez because taking drugs wherever he could find them. Alone slasher movie when he wasn't listening to Black We won't criticize his music choices, was a way to rebel against his violent father amphetamine, and PCP, and sprinkle on that as one serial killer author put it, by the time Ramirez moved on to cocaine through he would read the Satanic Bible and attend He was now in hiding, although he hadn't checked his photograph. His face was plastered over just but he didn't know that when he got on a If he'd only gone to a newspaper stand he'd This guy was walking around when the vast majority He managed at one point to walk past and then he walked into a convenience store. him. They were almost shaking, saying to each Inside the store, things had changed in front of him newspapers showing where there were more people pointing at him. freeway and then unsuccessfully trying to steal a and tried again to steal a car. Now Ramirez managed to get inside one car He punched her in the stomach and got hold Jose Burgoin, was soon on the scene. "I ran to defend her, and he told me, 'Don't get I opened the door and pulled him out of the car." mayhem. The Night Stalker was now a daytime De La Torre's husband turned up, and he with what he described as a BBQ utensil. a street that was starting to look Mexican-American Gladiators where the weapons Someone hit Ramirez over the head with a The jostling crowd now laid into him and a public execution there and then had some Ramirez was later given a date with the gas women sent him fan mail while he was in prison. The Night Stalker never was killed by the due to B-cell lymphoma in 2013. He was 53. Caught Jeffrey Dahmer." Or, see another psycho