It's graduation day at a children's From the metro station it's just ten but these children aren't totally safe. Old men every corner to make sure that these It's happened before. In fact, there's been a protesting these kids and their school. This is because, even though these kids and their parents were born in Japan, This is North Korea's bubble in Japan. It's a community of about 150,000 Koreans, holdovers from the 1940's when their relatives. They run a network of about Korean history, teach them Korean the great leader Kim Il-Sung. The guards are here this morning because three days ago, North Korea tested a bunch of Before the students can leave, they have But this community isn't giving in to the pressure. Their schools are the place and quietly revere their great leader A place none of them have ever lived. This North Korean bubble is a nation within a nation, whose borders are made out of And it shows how borders exist as much In 1910 the Korean Peninsula was annexed by the empire brought tens of thousands of serve in their army. Or in the case of brothels for Japanese soldiers. Japan's empire grew until 1945 when World War II, brought its sudden defeat and the loss of The Koreans who were in Japan were free, but didn't recognize them as citizens. The quickly filled the power vacuum of this new countries were formed: the U.S. Soviet Union backing the North, who a few years later invaded the Most of the Koreans in Japan went back stay in Japan. The Korean War changed everything, creating a bitter division between these could no longer just be Korean. They affiliated with. Almost all of them had but this new North Korea began in Japan, sending the money and helping them Effectively, helping them build a cultural border, to against the Japanese society that sought This school where the graduation is Kim Il-Sung in those early days, after For these stateless Koreans in Japan, this support from a faraway regime that they had never actually The North Korean backed organization in Japan over the following decades they built a They became rich, and started North Korea to support the regime. In around $25 billion dollars. But something happened that would mark the beginning of the end for this North In the late 70's North Korea started sending beaches, to start kidnapping Japanese so that they could use them for understanding of Japan, so they could help a 13 year old girl who allegedly died in their stories making their way into pop culture, their faces known to every began developing its long-range missile lead North Korea to having nuclear nuclear and abduction issues came to a withdrew from the nuclear prevents countries from building more officially admitted that they were Japanese citizens. This set off a wave of against North Koreans living in Japan. The Japanese government demanded that When the organization couldn't do this, Many of their buildings, including their The organization was left in financial ruin, schools standing. These schools became towards North Korea. Korean students suddenly found international conflict. This graph shows the amount of state funding for Korean schools by Japanese prefectures over time. 2006 was the year that North Korea tested a immediate drop-off of funding every year tuition subsidies for Korean schools Education officials specifically cite general &quot;situation&quot; in North Korea, as Japan's Ministry of Education declined my request for an interview on this, but I did talk to an actions by putting the issue into terms As I visited these schools and talked that is openly hostile towards them, pledges allegiance to a regime that has atrocities that our modern world knows. Each and every conceivable There are 80,000 to 100,000 people who are languishing in political prison camps. Yet at the same time, they are also victims of severe The U.N. and other international bodies have structural discrimination against cites this as validation for their human rights violations so grave When you ask them how response is always some version of: &quot;any At first I found this astounding, that there could be such a willful ignorance regime, but the more embedded I got into more I realized that, to this represents more of a refuge of safety while they're living in a country that heritage and culture. While younger generations are more likely to assimilate into Japanese society, the Chongryon have done an exceptional job at cultivating the strong Korean hardship. In their last year of high to go visit North Korea. Seeing and hearing the accounts of this highly choreographed visit to Pyongyang, is relationship that this disenfranchised I visited the North Korean university where everything Korean. Every rock, tree, has ever existed on the Korean Peninsula with support from the North Korean meticulously comprehensive collection to This place does not exist for visitors. It's much intense pressure and hostility, Korean North Korea isn't their home country in the way that you they've never lived there, but they see country that they were born in actively Like in many parts of the world, Anti-Korean rallies are on the Japanese law enforcement. Prime Minister he's caught up in a scandal right now ultra-nationalist kindergarten with anti-Korean views. Japanese nationalism leads to discrimination against Koreans. as their home country, looking to a support and protection of their identity. Affiliating with this universally reviled regime, that routinely vows to from the Japanese population and discrimination which leads to again And in my mind there's no While I was in Japan making this video, I ultra right-wing groups who are anti-Korean and I didn't go into that much in this video, but I made an entire separate politics in Japan and kind of the anti-Korean sentiment and where that comes from, from like a historical perspective. And of course: big THANK YOU to lululemon who is a sponsor of Borders, they sent me been wearing. They are sturdy, and you're hiking or when you're at home. So thank you for supporting Borders and leave a link here for the lululemon shop your own pair of ABC pants. Alright, we're three episodes into Borders, we have three to go. Get ready And wish me luck in the meantime