Finding the perfect concealer that covers up dark circles and yet does not emphasize fine lines and wrinkles, is the bane. It is the bane of my existence. Okay, it is the biggest challenge ever and I am, I am on it. Challenge accepted. I bought and tried every drugstore concealer that I could find, and I'm going to show them to you today. In order to keep this fair, I've blended up every single concealer using the exact same clean concealer brush, and then I show you the result in studio lighting and in natural day lighting, which is how you would likely see it on yourself. As always, no filters or skin softening of any kind has been used in this video. Let's go. So let's start with Rimmel Kind and Free. On the website they say that this has a fresh, dewy finish, so it's a hydrating light coverage concealer that's buildable. It's also considered a thoughtful choice at Shoppers Drug Mart. So a thoughtful choice product is one has no animal testing. It's formulated without parabens, phthalates, formaldehyde, formaldehyde, releasing agents, hydroquinone, all of those things. I will leave a list of the things that it's formulated without. Okay, so if you're looking for thoughtful choices, this does sit in that category. My thoughts about this is that it has very light coverage. The creasing and the separation of this was not terrible by any means, but that's because it is such a light coverage formula. Typically, light coverage formulas don't sit in fine lines as much. If you struggle with very dark circles like I do, if you have blue or purple undertones under the eyes, I can pretty much guarantee that this just won't be enough for you if you don't, right? And if you just want to brighten without too much density and you're looking for something that is vegan or cruelty-free, all of that stuff, then this may be a really great option for you. On my other eye, I use this one. This is the NYX Bear with Me concealer serum. So this was rated the best Drugstore concealer that won't settle into fine lines by InStyle. I was very intrigued when I read that. So this has medium coverage with a natural finish that's not too dewy or too matte. This is also considered a skincare treatment and makeup product hybrid. I love when brands put skincare and makeup together, so this hydrates the skin for up to 24 hours. And because it's a serum, it has this really silky light texture, which is really easy to blend and buff out. It also doesn't exaggerate dehydrated skin, which can be a bigger concern with age so that crepiness under the eyes. This really doesn't exaggerate that. It says that it doesn't on the website. And I agree, I don't think it does. So my thoughts for this right away. I didn't love that it doesn't have a doe foot applicator. The formula itself is actually really beautiful. I loved it right away, does not crease a lot, does not get super cakey. It is more coverage, way more coverage than the Rimmel kind and free. The finish is luminous but it's not too shiny. It's really beautiful. I just hate that you have to pump it on your hand and then, you know, pop it on the eyes. That's being really picky. If this had a sponge tip or a doe foot applicator, it would probably be like a perfect concealer. I'm very impressed. Really, really like this. If you tried it, let me know if you like it too. Okay, let's move on to this guy. So this is the L'Oreal Super Blendable Crayon concealer. As soon as I saw this I thought, I need this, I want this in my life so badly. I was really, I don't know, intrigued by the crayon shape of it. So the tip of this crayon allows for really precise application. So if you have a teeny little pimple, you can use the tip of this crayon, but you can also turn it on its side and then you can cover more area with it. They say that this has sheer to full coverage, so buildable as well, and they also say that it blends easily and doesn't look cakey. So my thoughts for this. Honestly, it's great because it's really portable. It has pretty good coverage. It blends perfectly. It has a really nice creamy consistency. Although I like this and I think this could be a great concealer even to use as a foundation. Like if you are having a natural makeup day, you apply your sunscreen. You could pop this on your forehead, the bridge of your nose, under your eyes, maybe around here, a little bit on the chin, blend it all out. I think this would be lovely for that. Like almost a stretch out as a spot correcting foundation style product. It's great, but I don't think it's full, full coverage. Like if you have very dark circles, very dark blue, and you want impactful coverage, this isn't going to give it to you. Is this still great? Is it still blendable and creamy and smooth? Absolutely. I love this product. I love it, although it doesn't live up to what it says it does on the website. Regardless of it, I'm really happy I have it in my, you know, concealer wardrobe because I know I'll be reaching for that a lot, especially in the summer months. Now, I compared it to this guy. Okay, this is the true match serum corrector. This is also a hybrid skincare and makeup product. It corrects like a concealer, hydrates like a serum, and provides this instant dark circle coverage. It's also says that it visibly puffs a look of eye bags and helps iron out fine lines. Now, I don't believe that, really. I don't think that if you use this on your eye bags, your eye bags are going to miraculously go away. Puffiness under the eyes is a big challenge. I'm currently working on a video where I'm testing a bunch of products on my husband, who has under-eye puffiness, because it's not as easy as you think. Do I think if you buy this concealer, if you have puffiness, your puffiness is going to go away? Absolutely not. Like the marketing. They just they go so over the top with the marketing. But again, regardless of that, it's still really good. This is a medium coverage radiant finish. And it really does leave the under eyes looking instantly brighter. I got more coverage from it than from the L'Oreal crayons for sure. So if you're looking specifically for under-eye darkness, I think between the two of them, this is the one I would go for. This one is the Revlon Colorstay Skin Awaken 5-in-1 concealer. On the website. They say that this has light coverage, so natural looking coverage. It's transfer resistant for up to 24 hours of wear. My thoughts on this I really like the sponge tip applicator because this does dry down fairly quickly, which I actually don't mind because if you have a lot of fine lines and wrinkles when you have a formula that's too emollient, like too wet and shiny, that doesn't dry down, it can really settle in those fine lines and wrinkles quite quickly. I'm sure a lot of you guys have noticed that, so I do find this one to be a really nice one for fine lines, because it minimizes creasing significantly because it does dry down. I'm not overly excited about this. I do find that it has a lighter coverage so it doesn't cover extreme dark circles very, very well. It was just okay. The next one is this Revlon Flex Wear Full cover. These are actually pretty different. They're both Revlon, but they're very different. This one's 100% full coverage. So this is supposed to conceal imperfections redness dark circles. It also has something called an adaptive flex technology which basically claims to give you this comfortable, breathable feel that moves and flexes with you. And it's transfer resistant, fade resistant 24 hour wear. This is fantastic for those people that need full coverage. It really is. It has an elasticity to it that's very unique. I could see this one being a little bit thick for mature skin, almost too much coverage for most people. See, this is the crazy thing with products. It's never black and white right? I bet you guys wanted me to be like, this one's garbage, this one's good, get this one, don't get this one. There's so many factors. And those factors will determine what you need, what you want and what you like. For me, this one is better because I have a lot of darkness and I want more coverage. But for someone that has less darkness, maybe more line, someone who's older than me, I really think you're going to like this one better. Okay, they're both good. I wasn't super like mind blown impressed with this one. Just because this isn't the type of formula that I typically gravitate towards. But if I had a client, for example, in their 60s or 70s, with not a lot of darkness, but a lot of lines, I definitely reach for this before I would reach for that. So I hope that's helpful. Let's move on to a concealer that I'm sure you guys have seen on the channel before. Okay, this is the Maybelline Instant Age Rewind Eraser. This concealer has been on social media for a while. You guys can see I've used up. This is, I think, my second or third bottle of it. The really nice thing about this and what they say on the website actually, is that has a really buttery formula and it glides on very easily. There is a little click dispenser here, so you just rotate it and the concealer comes out. And then of course you have your sponge tip applicator. One of the cool things about this is that a lot of people online, and it's actually marketed to be really good for highlighting and contouring as well because you can like pop it on really, really easily. You can grab a shade that's, quite a bit darker than your skin tone, maybe grab a shade that's lighter, use it to highlight, contour and conceal. And because it has such a buttery formula, it does that really, really well. It does have medium to lighter coverage, though. Okay. It's not a super full coverage, which again, you don't always want it to be right because you want it to blend and brighten, lift and sculpt. You might not want something that's too tacky, too dense. This isn't tacky or dense, it is light to medium, but it's great. Okay, let's compare this to the Maybelline Super Stay Active Wear. This one's a bit different. So this is up to 30 hours wear plus it has a really unique applicator. They call it the comfort curve flex applicator. It makes it easy to apply at the end of the day it's a tiny doe foot. Let's be real. It's a tiny doe foot. Do I think this applicator is like, mind blowing? No, I think it's fine, but I don't like rave about it. You know what I'm saying? My thoughts on this honestly, it's not bad. The creasing was not bad, especially for full coverage, but I did still find like between these two, I still found the Instant Age rewind one to be much more brightening. Even though Instant Age Rewind isn't supposed to be as full of a coverage. Honestly, I found it to be more brightening. This one is definitely more on the matte side. maybe that's why I found this to be more brightening because it doesn't lay as matte, but if I were to choose between one of these, I would definitely reach for this one. Let's move on to this guy. Oh, I had such high hopes for this. All right, let me tell you what the website says about it first. So it's infused with hyaluronic complex, vitamin C and niacinamide. It's supposed to give a bright, radiant finish with medium to full coverage. And it's certified cruelty-free, which is great. Okay, this is what my thought is on this. So this was the second time I bought it because as soon as I saw Simply Ageless, I always try those concealers because I do have a lot of fine lines around my eyes, and I do have a big issue with creasing. Okay, you guys know if you've been here for a while, that's my biggest issue for sure. So as soon as I saw it, I bought this and I was like 100% invested in making this work for me, for me. And within three days I literally threw it in the garbage. The formula itself is really thin, yet creasy, which is so annoying. So it doesn't cover up dark circles and it creases. The worst thing about it, I would say, is that it has a really weird applicator. This applicator is so weird. it's supposed to be a cooling ceramic wand. Okay, that's what they describe it, and it's supposed to be used to de-puff without tugging. Like, listen, I get it. I get that it's supposed to not tug and we're not supposed to hug around the eyes, but I just find that, how are you supposed to get the formula even out of here with this, like, weird plasticky wand? I don't know, I don't get it. It would be so much better if it was, if it was a doe foot applicator. All right. I chose to compare it to this one. Okay. CoverGirl clean Fresh Hydrating Concealer. So this one again claims to have a glowy, buildable coverage vegan formula made without phthalates, mineral oil, formaldehyde, talc, parabens, or sulfates. So the biggest marketing thing with this concealer everyone always emphasizes one thing like this one's all about the one being super cool. I'm like, it's not cool and sucks, but this one's all about like you can highlight and contour with it, right? Every single one of these has like its star thing. The selling feature of this one is that it's the whole clean makeup thing, okay? It's called clean, fresh vegan right on the bottle. It's all about clean makeup. I might get, you know, roasted in the comment section below for this. I don't buy the whole clean makeup thing, you guys. I think. No, it's a total scam. I have a science background. I've gone down that rabbit hole so many times looking deeply into it, trying to like, fully understand it. I've watched a lot of videos about it. I talked to my dad about it, who's now quite a well-known scientist, and clean makeup is just marketing. Okay, it's just BS. There, I said it. I know I use that as a point in some of the other concealers, because I know a lot of you guys are looking for that, because I see that in my comments a lot. Like please do a whole look of clean makeup. And I'm like, it's hard for me, you know, because I respect that you want that. And I'm giving you options. That's why I mentioned it in the other concealers. But I also think it's like just like BS. Like, I just I really think it's BS. Regardless of that, though, putting the clean makeup thing aside, this has very little coverage. I would never buy it again. It's probably the worst one of the lot in my opinion. Let's get into the highest coverage concealers now. These ones are full, full coverage. Okay, so let's start with this one the Elf Hydrating Camo Concealer. Elf is known to be cruelty-free, and a lot of people gravitate towards it because it is cruelty-free. So that is actually amazing. And I really do love so many, so many elf products. They say it's crease resistant. We're going to get into that in a second and a 16 hour wear. So this is the thing with this. I loved this concealer. At first. When I first bought it I was ten out of ten impressed with it. It's made its appearance in so many videos I've used it on so many models. I use it on myself forever, for months, every single day on camera you will see that it looks like a dream when you put this on on camera, it's like almost shockingly impressive when I use this on my mature models on camera, it's like, whoa! Because it's so luminous and creamy, but so full coverage that like, boom, the dark circles are wiped away immediately. But off camera, there's a little issue with it. That's actually a big issue. That makes me so sad to say this, because I love this concealer and I still really want to love it, but it does separate quite a bit and it can look patchy and very dry. I don't know why and I was so bummed it didn't do that at first and I loved it. I use it all my models and we like loved it. And then after I use it for a few months, I'm like, why is it doing this? I recently saw that Marlena Stell made a video and she said the same thing about it. Marlena is a friend of mine, so I've talked to her a little bit about it as well, and she said it's because it has kaolin in it, which is actually used in like clay masks to draw out impurities in the skin. So it's known to be very drying, which is bizarre because it's a hydrating satin finish concealer, but it has kale in it and it's drying and separating, which is so strange. Like it makes me wonder why they formulated it like that, you know? So overall, I mean, if you are going to be on camera like me, yeah, this is gorgeous. But if you aren't and if you have a lot of fine lines and wrinkles and you're going to be in natural light with a lot of people, it wouldn't be my first choice anymore. And that brings me to another one that's very full wear okay, this is L'Oreal Infallible Full Wear. This is an OG of mine. I've had this in my pro kit forever. Actually, this one is pretty much empty. I should throw this one out. I've used it on a lot of people and I've used it on myself. I use it on myself exclusively as my under eye concealer for probably at least a year. This is the most pigmented and full coverage concealer of L'oreal's concealer bunch. It's waterproof. They say it's non-greasy and it won't transfer, fade or flake and it dries down to a thin natural finish that lasts up to 24 hours. Okay, that's what the website says. So my thoughts about this after using this for a very, very long time is that it's definitely the most full coverage concealer at the drugstore. This is amazing for covering up hyperpigmentation, red marks or anything. The only thing is that this is very thick for under the eyes. You know the website says it dries down to this really thin consistent I don't agree. It doesn't. It doesn't. It's very thick for under the eyes. If you have aging under eyes, mark my words. I'm telling you right now, I can almost guarantee that this is going to be too much for you. It will cover your dark circles 100%. It will, but it's also going to significantly emphasize your lines. You guys have seen me do those before and afters, where I use these really thick concealers on one side and like a lighter, more radiant concealer on the other. And my one side looks so old and wrinkly and dragged down and the other side looks so lifted. This is the type of concealer that I think if you are more mature and you have circles and lines, it's going to actually cover your circles but age you. Again, makes me sad because this is a really excellent, very full coverage concealer. But it's not great for a mature skin. If you are younger though, and you have pigmentation issues, but you don't have issues with fine lines and wrinkles and creasing, then I think this would be a fantastic option for you. Thank you guys so much for watching. I'm going to summarize all of these into some really cool graphics, and I'm going to pop those all up on my Instagram. So definitely follow me @glamgirlgabi over there. If you want a place where you can see summaries of everything that I talk about in the videos, we make really cool graphics over here, so it's a lot easier for you to shop when you're actually headed out to the store. This video is over.