- That helicopter is and it's gonna land right over there. (explosion booms) hunts me down before the end of the day, they get this hundred grand. Run, run, run. Get in, get in. - Oh, they're running after us. They are right on our tail, we gotta get outta here. I purposely put their car further away so I can get a head start. - [Sean] Get in the vehicle, let's go! Come on. (intense instrumental music) - Right now he's not too far away. He's right on the other side - All right, we gotta be quick. Okay, we're crossing the bridge. Hey Chandler? - Yeah? - I got you. I've been waiting for this. - So I've done this in the past where I ran away from a but I've never ran away (intense instrumental music) (explosion booming) - I think Jimmy can get away now. - We're like a mile down - Ooh. - Yeah, you might have to go another way. - The quickest way out of that we just blew up. So now they have to take the long way out, and that should give me like a I rented an entire museum, giant military equipment, This is just the beginning. - He's heading up, back up like northwest. - This is where things get fun. As you see the Squid Game mask over there, we're in the right place. Who is this guy? - Now we are in a warehouse full of jeeps. Let's just say when they pull up, they're gonna be very confused. Do you know what to do when they get here? - No. - [Jimmy] Just drive - Right now? - Oh. and monitor the security cam. - Looks like he's stopped at a building. - [Cameraman 2] What's the - Yeah. - Yeah, this is the spot. - We've spotted the military All the doors on this building are locked. Let's see if they break - I'm gonna stay out front, just in case somebody decides - We're gonna check out the backside, see if there's a vehicle back here. - So one of them is and two of them are in the back. We're just gonna patiently wait. - The tracker is still in the building. - [Zach] We got some glass doors we can break up front here. - All right, sounds good. I'm gonna grab this to - There are fresh tire - Jim's going to get the vehicle, I'm gonna go ahead and break in. - [Sean] All right, go (glass shattering) - [Voice On Radio] Military It's time to go. - I should probably recline, I'm gonna hide under this blanket, so they can't see me in this car. Lock your doors. - Zach, let's roll back to the Hummer. (intense instrumental music) (engine noise drown out speaker) - [Jim] Which one? Which one? - [Cameraman] That should - [Jimmy] Do they notice me? - [Cameraman] We drove (intense instrumental music) - We made it out with all the other teams. Oh my gosh! Dude, they didn't even know how to react. - He's on the move again. He's straight ahead due south. - This is the tracker that where I am at all times. And if I put the tracker it jams it. And now they don't know where I am. - It looks like the - I don't see Jimmy. I think he's messing with us. - All right, so hold on. It just updated. He's straight north again. (Sean cheering) (upbeat instrumental music) - And now we're in the middle of nowhere. There's literally nothing out here, except this old barn - Whoa. my hundred grand right here? Bad news. There's only two seats inside of here. (Jimmy groans) - I think I see them. - Coming up on the tracker. - Holy cow, here they come! - Check the car, and take the top. - Go, go, go, go, go, go, go. There he is. There he is. (wood splintering) (intense instrumental music) - [Jim] Get in, get in. - [Sean] Let's go. - Oh my god! - Run away! Don't stop! Go! Hey, I'd like to join your guys team, what do you think? - Get in. (Karl laughs) - [Cameraman 2] That's not funny. - Saved Jimmy some time. Hopefully that's enough. - Go, go, go, go, go. - All right boys, here we go. Let's go. - It's this as quick as she goes? - Full speed. - There he is. There he is. We're coming for you Jimmy. - Oh my God! They're catching up! Go! (intense instrumental music) - [Cameraman] This is scary man! - We're coming up on the rocks. (squad laughs) - We got you! - According to our calculations, their cars shouldn't be All right. - Go, go, go, go. Just go. (truck engine rumbling) (cameraman laughs) - [Cameraman] Later nerds! - Let's go, yeah we can go. Just go. (intense instrumental music) - Oh no! - Clear. Boys let's go. They weren't supposed to go over the rock! - I don't think he thought - Oh no! I'm screwed! The plan was to get in but then the rocks didn't work. Just go! (intense instrumental music) Let's think of a plan. we're gonna catch him. (squad laughing) (intense instrumental music) - Send the helicopter. Go, go, go. (intense instrumental music) - [Cameraman 2] You heard Jimmy? - Hurry up, he's in there. He's in the truck. and I'll give you ten grand. - We're coming for you. - That's a badass truck. They can't go very fast though. (engine roaring) - All right, we've got a proposition. You double the money to 200K, we'll give you 10 minutes from right now. - What about 150? - 150, deal? Pull over Jim. a Reese's Peanut Butter Cup Blizzard? - Do know who Mr. Beast is? - Yeah, I do. right now, so we're gonna We just gave Jimmy a 10 minute head start. We already decided we're We know we can help out - And while the military got ice cream, we buried Nolan alive so that (slow instrumental music) Nolan? - Are you ready? I'm about I dropped it. Did you get it? - No. but I just did. (Nolan groans) - Act like your me, I'm gonna go hide. Me and Chris are hiding in the woods, let's see what happens. Do you think they'll see us here? I swear to god if we lose a 150 I'm gonna kill you. - I can't help it, I can't get rid of- - Can you just go walk down - Yeah, sure. It's very dark and spooky out here. Couple of, oh... You guys aren't very good Oh god! Don't tackle me. (Chris screams) - I just heard Chris screaming. I'm gonna call him. - [Chris] Jimmy they got me. where I buried myself alive? - We've done a lot of - I can tell. This whole video you've been It's annoying. I'm currently buried alive. Good luck. I hung up on them. That was a complete lie, - So right now he's still so we'll see. (phone rings) - Karl, they're almost here. You go investigate, report back. - Okay. (phone beeps) I'm terrified. - Hello? - [Jimmy] Who was it? - Are these my Marine friends that are right in front of my car? - Is it a Hummer? Wait Karl who is it? in front of my car. (engine rumbling) - Hey, what's up? Karl, is it them? Karl! Karl! wait, wait, wait, wait. Oh, and he is driving through - They blocked off our exit route. I have no idea what they are, I'm just laying in the woods. - Jimmy? - Earlier today, before we who'd you talk to? - I don't remember, that - Was it FaceTime or phone call? - FaceTime. (Sean grunting) - You couldn't have been I'm Jimmy, I'm famous.&quot; - I have the tracker. You can't find Jimmy without me. - Fair enough. - You literally have to dig me up. - You guys have to dig - Hello? - Let me know if he comes down this path. - He's passing my car right now, you gotta go somewhere. - [Jimmy] Yo, yo, yo. He literally just walked - [Karl] Just move it that way. - I can't believe he I've been laying down (intense instrumental music) - If you come to me right now, we're fine. I moved their Humvee, so - So the coast is clear Karl? - Yes. I'm trusting you. I don't actually know if it is. (intense instrumental music) Close the door, oh my God! Go, go, go. Oh my God, I can't believe we got away! We're currently driving I literally rented an entire museum. Two hours until midnight, let's do this. - Hey Nolan, just letting you know they're contemplating breaking the glass. - [Nolan] Oh don't... No seriously, I'll die. - If you tell me the information that we need to know to keep moving, I'll get the Bobcat, and we'll dig you out than Jim and I can dig Deal? The North Carolina Museum - I'm just letting you know, they're not getting the - No. we'll see you later Nolan, bye - Are they lying? Chris! - And now we are finally at the museum. - Let's spend a night here. - There's literally to this museum, and I could hide anywhere I want. Now I'm gonna sit in and I'm gonna cover up (Karl grunting) Now I'm hidden below this makeshift rock. Cut the lights. - Oh. I'm gonna go meet with them, and try to get them to - [Jimmy] Okay, have fun. (Humvee door slams) - Exactly an hour left to find Mr. Beast. - The military guys are calling me. Hello? - I promise you I will I am in here somewhere. Goodbye. Why is it so much fun - Hi guys. - What are you guys looking for? - [Jim] Ignore him, he's the enemy. - I'd check the theater. - No. in there. (all laughing) Yes, he's probably this way. - Ah, nope. That means no. Jimmy come out. Do you know where Jimmy is? and of course I'll tell you. - Okay, where is he? Jimmy. All right, nothing. - Hello? go across any bridges? - Lots of bridges, especially the bridge I (Jimmy cheers) (Karl laughs) We got 45 minutes. - Jimmy. We know you're here. (suspenseful music) - Oh no. What gave it away? - Your shoes. He's taking a picture for his son. All right, get this You guys just won a 150 grand. (squad cheering) gonna spend it on? - We're gonna donate it to The HunterSeven Foundation does research on toxic exposures for veterans - By the way, your friend Mr. Beast oh - Dig me out. Dig me out!