(uptempo music) - Hello, and welcome to Close Up with the Hollywood Reporter Actresses. I'm Matthew Belloni. I'd like to welcome our guests today. Saoirse Ronan. Allison Janey. Mary J Blige. Emma Stone. Jennifer Lawrence. And, Jessica Chastain. Let's get started. Obviously the headlines are incidents of alleged harassment after incidents of alleged Some people believe that will never be the same. I'm curious about your thoughts on this and whether all of are going to lead to actual change, and we'll start with Jessica. - I hope the entertainment I mean, if you look at Louis and Jack Warner, you read you find out what happened there is a history of abuse and it's never been addressed, and I think I'm devastated that have come out but at the same time I feel hopeful because we're not ignoring it anymore. It's painful for change, but it's needed. It was needed many many years ago, but what's coming out now there's abuses not just in terms of that needs to change about Hollywood, and I think that the unless we show a more modern version of the world that we're presented with. - Do you feel a sense that these stories are being told? - Yeah, I think that the is that this is just in I mean, once again the is the stage at which you can see the inner workings and the problems that are all over the world. The only reason why there's so much focus on the entertainment industry is because these people are famous. If a flight attendant it doesn't end up in the news That doesn't meant that going on anywhere else in the world, in any other place of work, but fortunately we're - Do you agree with that, or is there something specific where there is a power dynamic and someone is in a position and to exploit an actress in that way? - Well, I think what she's We see these people. Maybe they grab headlines or what we do grabs but no, I think it's a pandemic. It's through every industry. There's a really amazing that was essentially saying if women were paid this would not be occurring. I mean, this is something have had to fit into these different boxes for so many years just to get work, and if these things are happening, and they bring them to people's attention they're much more likely to be fired or to be dismissed in any industry than a man in a more powerful position, so I think that it's a huge conversation for our industry, certainly. But, I would hope that this for every industry for for equal work for women because that's been a since the beginning of time and industry. - Yeah. (all laugh) - Have these stories coming forward, have they caused you to look at things throughout your career and re-evaluate some of the - I feel very fortunate any kind of harassment at all. The only reason why I can think that is I'm you know, five-foot-15, and my career didn't and my life was started in the theater. I didn't experience this, of the casting couch. That was just something that I thought women had to navigate Or, I thought, &quot;Well, someday &quot;but I know how I would.&quot; I always felt prepared in my mind if that were to occur what I would do, but it's exciting to think of a time where kids growing up that that will be a thing of the past, and there won't be any That's the most upsetting thing to me is people who abuse their positions, people that people look up to, artists who are revered, coming in are gonna look to them. It's just one of the worst crimes I think to abuse your influence and and it's exciting to think and it's high time. - Have any of the stories been especially resonant who has grown up, - Yeah, I mean I have to say that for me I was the same as Allison. I've never experienced that. I think I was very lucky from a lot of that. I never was really exposed I was never left on my own with anyone. My mom and dad were always around, so I was very protected in that way. I mean, every story that's come out has so much gravity to it, and I think it would be wrong to escalate one over the other, but you can actually hear it happening. The one with that Italian, - She was a model and actress. - [Saoirse] She was a model, actress. - The Harvey Weinstein story. - And, what was incredible about it was that she was brave enough because she knew that this was important for this to come out, and in that position again and and still nothing was done about it. - Yeah. - And, that's the really about all of this. They've had all of this shit basically on all of these men and but they haven't done anything with it. It's just been swept under the carpet. - Do you think that the Perhaps people will be less because of fear, but do of the leverage of power and - I hope eventually. I think it's gonna be a while. I think it's so deeply ingrained, I don't even know. If you think about obviously it's not coming It's this social proof of and also what Emma was saying is so true that until we're equal in every way then how can you expect us if we're not being respected - Yeah, whenever you have one demographic that's in charge of the you're gonna have abuses of power. I mean, for me, I'm really interested in your point of view on this in terms of coming into the industry, being in music, now being in film. - In the industry, like her, I was always a tomboy and one of the guys, and I feel really sad for the women, but I'm happy that they're free. Everyone that's coming out, because they had to hold onto a secret that they ma have seen shrinks for for years and years and years, and I believe that things will change because this is making other women say, &quot;Me too, me too, me too,&quot; keeps happening every day, every day because people are tired of sitting around with that secret and that so I think it will change things because people don't want women anyway. Women have been going through this since they were children, you know? As a child I went through it all the way up until adulthood, but when I got in the music because I went through so - You said you were a tomboy. Do you think you made that decision to shield yourself from it? - I did because I've been and a teenager. Not that I was a guy, I and Timberlands and hat turned backwards, so I won't be so revealing. It took me a very long time to even wear makeup and tight clothes because I had been through so much, and that that I've been I exposed it on Oprah, that people don't know, so like I said I'm happy that these because it hurts, and you women all over the world, like she said. - That's another thing as well is that these people who went through it then had to get up the next or they've had to see these men for years and shake their hand and or get on a flight and work I mean, imagine how much to do that every day. - Because I'm someone who holds a lot and gets really nervous to we have to also recognize who haven't told their stories yet, who aren't comfortable to share, and this is a deeply, and I know this is a very millennial word, but for a lot of women too come out one after the other whether they have stories to share or not about assault or harassment. It's a very difficult thing to watch. I also want to say for women I feel so much compassion for those who haven't shared their stories yet, who are still getting up they're with their abuser, or and who are not ready to say anything. I think that putting pressure if you're not saying it in this evil that's I think we need to have and patience that more and in a slow way and in a to people who have been - It's interesting. We haven't seen as many come forward as in the and I'm curious why you think that is. Is it because of this? Because people may still be afraid or because it's less prevalent? - I think a lot of people are not ready, and a lot of people, or a lot of women... I don't want to say when you're young and or you want to be an actress there's people that threaten - That's what I was gonna say. They're afraid of losing their job. - You do certain things, and but they don't know it - You don't know it is, but also sometimes I've had this happen. I've finally made the decision I went to go to the bathroom at work, and one of the producers and was like, &quot;You know, we &quot;You've been really - The mic should've been off anyway. - Yeah, seriously. They were very unprofessional and basically threatened my job because the director said and I said, &quot;That's sick. &quot;You can't talk to me like And, I was afraid I wasn't - Yeah, you were difficult. - Yeah, I was called I think a lot of people because they're afraid - Exactly. - That's what needs to change. You need to be able to and have somebody do something about it instead of saying, &quot;Oh, it's wrong? &quot;Well, you're fired.&quot; - I think you're right though, Emma, in what you're saying too that there's support here If they don't ever want to that's fine, but to know that I would imagine, having to know that other people and they're not the only one, the strength that hopefully just for themselves too - To relate it a little we're talking about today, in your film about this fight for equality and fight to be taken seriously. What about the current climate did you bring to the - Well, we shot Battle of the so when it comes to our political climate we're still very... There was a lot of hope happening. It was early on, early days, so it was fascinating It's a historical event. It happened in 1973, and now and the depressingly are very tough to look at. There have been strides made, Women can get their own credit card without a male signing for it which you couldn't in 1973. You had to have a man sign. So obviously, we have our all of us now which is great, and we're really really thankful. - That's enough. - That's enough. Nope, we're fine. But, you know, there's - You're offering the men's what you're offering the women's winner. Do we bring in an eighth of the crowd? - I don't know percentages. - Well, the sold the exact to the women's final today as the men's. Isn't that right, Jack? - Today, I suppose so. - Same sales, same prize - Oh, come on. Be reasonable. I mean, there's no way - What's your argument, Jack? - Well, for one thing that they have to support. - Well, I'm the main - That was what we brought. It was studying that era in many ways has changed. - Right, interesting. The pay issue is interesting because even before the current climate there was a lot of stuff and getting equal- - Did you hear about this? - Getting equal pay. I will get to her. - [Emma] Just wanted to make sure. - [Jennifer] Thanks, John. - But, how much is that when you approach a new job? Is it something that you're adamant about? You want to know what You want to know that there's Is that something that you bring up before you take on a role? - I do. I think when you look at the industry a lot of problems in but also in terms of writers and directors coming onto a project, it because I now have a production company, and I'm asking, &quot;Can you guys And, it's all men. And, I'm realizing that because we wouldn't probably but for the agents they're gonna submit the writers that have the higher quote because they get a so that's leading us to why there's not so many female filmmakers, right? But then also, in terms of wage equality I don't understand if you're and they know what how an agent is okay of your co-star's salary? I've been on projects. After Zero Dark Thirty I where it's a female protagonist, and they wouldn't do who the male actor was because they needed to do his deal first and (all groan) - What? - Yeah, and I was like, &quot;I'm So from now on, if someone has something they're bringing to me, but also if someone's of a two month film, they're - No! - No. - It's something that I feel like before I used to trust the industry. - Be protectors. - Exactly, but I think we have to be more proactive. - Is that a priority for you? You've been vocal on this issue. - It's much easier for The reason I spoke out about I'm okay. It's just if I'm going through this, and once again we're in the industry, everybody's looking at us, every woman in the world so now obviously it's something The real problem is the It's the reason why your about paying you a third for so long. That's why when I was being and I was being treated a nobody could do anything about it because the behavior was normalized. - It's an industry that's and pay gaps. - Allison, is there a that has really stuck with in your personal life especially? - I was not expecting that question. - Can I answer it for you? - Please do that for me. - If you'd like to talk about pay you can do that as well, but... - If I'd like to talk about what? - About pay. - Oh, pay. It's so funny. I do a TV show that two so we're like, &quot;Damn, &quot;we're not getting paid.&quot; We don't have any way to compare. - How much could we be making? - [Matthew] If a man I would be surprised. - Oh, I would, I would, I would... You know, I suppose, well West Wing, CJ Cregg was huge because and role model, and I have a lot of people that come up to me and say that that character inspired go into public service, I just feel like such a in that role because I'm as CJ is, and I feel bad about it like I let people down like, &quot;Oh, you're not anything like CJ.&quot; But, then there's some other roles... That's the one. I'm gonna go with that one. - That's a good one. - Was that what you were hoping I'd say? - I'm a fan of that show. (all chattering) - I feel like I'm playing Password, and I'm like, &quot;Is this the right answer?&quot; (all chattering) - I have watched that so many times, and I'm like, &quot;I am stealing that moment &quot;and that moment and that laughing thing.&quot; - You have got to work with my... - What's interesting Aaron Sorkin on this film, and He has been criticized over some of the female characters, and people have said that they don't control their own destiny but then you look at a on the West Wing or your It seems like they do What's your take on that? (Jessica sighs) - What's my take on that? What I'm so excited about, and I hope that other people as long as Aaron Sorkin has and ones that have as much power as he has are inspired by what he did because for his directorial debut he decided to tell the story and he made a film about patriarchy in terms of family, in terms And, what women have to the rules of men. - My brilliant find. He lost $6 million on my table. - Stop, stop. - Moved to Florida, got a then hanged himself in his shower. - Oh, and that's your fault? That's not your fault! - Johnny Sutherland is dead. Harlan Eustice is in jail in Nevada wishing he was, but that's - You're not saying no. - I was named after my great grandmother. - I don't care. We will stay here all night is my name. nobody gives a shit about your good name. - I do. - [Charlie] Why? Why? - Tell me why! - Because it's all I have left! - When I read the script in the beginning I was like, &quot;I just can't Twice in the film men tell Molly that she's not presenting Her boss tells her she has ugly clothes, so she goes and buys really sexy clothes to make her more desirable in the room, and then also her lawyer tells her she looks like a Cinemax and that she needs to change her clothes. I mean, there's so much in this film that deals with what a woman has to do to try to find some bit of success, to find some sense of and I'm really impressed who could have told any chose to tell that story. - I love to believe that it's I really think that has - He said that. - He did say that? Oh, well. - But, also do you know what when we were talking about what's going on in the industry? His daughter, Roxy, he said and saying, &quot;Listen. &quot;When you go into the workforce &quot;if a guy grabs you or does anything to do &quot;you can scream, you can fight back, &quot;you can do all these things,&quot; and that she turned to him and said, &quot;Dad, why are you teaching &quot;and not teaching those (Jennifer laughs) - Good point. - Yeah, so absolutely. I think that's what he's trying to do now is to teach men not to be creeps. The onus isn't on the women. Society has a way of blaming victims. &quot;You didn't come out soon enough&quot; or &quot;you're not asking for enough money,&quot; but actually the onus is on the others not to abuse their power. - [Allison] Absolutely. - Mary, this is your most What was the preparation compared to your normal music career and preparation that - Well, of course I But, I think I was being ever since I was a little girl. My mom and my dad are Southern people, and they came to New York in their 20's, and they had me, and I so I'm a New York girl, but my mom sent me to every summer. My grandmother was this woman, Florence. My aunt was this woman, And, every woman in the South they had farms and chickens but they had this silent power. They didn't really say much, but you knew that they were powerful because of the way their men treated them and because of how everybody treated them. So, that part of my life Florence was a silent, powerful woman, and when she spoke, her husband listened because she didn't say much, and she loved her family. So, she was just this loved her family. They were all stripped down. They didn't wear things and they didn't hang on to them. They just were free. Free, strong women, so Of course, and an acting coach. (all laugh) - You just come back. - I will. - You come call the way back. You hear? - I love you, mama. - I love you too, baby. (somber music) - My acting coach is one of my friends, so I was going through and I just ran over to her house, and I just threw myself on the floor, and just started crying. And, she was like, &quot;This is what you do.&quot; She didn't baby me. She said, &quot;You take all of that shit &quot;and you give it to Florence.&quot; - And, I was so like, &quot;Oh And, I had to pull myself together and just give everything to Florence, so that was the first thing I said to her. &quot;Help me, I'm going through it,&quot; and she said, &quot;Forget it. &quot;Give it to Florence.&quot; (lively music) - Is there something memorable that an acting coach through your career or mentor figure or something that you carry - Yeah, Sanford Mesiner told me don't let anyone tell you (all laugh) - That's that James Dean quote. &quot;How can you measure acting in inches?&quot; They told him he was too short. - Oh my god, that's so funny. That always stays with me. - Al Pacino told me, he and he said that for so whatever you are feeling It can see more into you So, to look at it not like but it's part of your body almost. It has a direct link to your soul, so whatever you're feeling but the camera's gonna get it. There's this sense of once you allow that and allow yourself to hide but it's still gonna see it anyway, and whatever you are feeling that's what the character's feeling. I was so lucky that that was my first film because I was afraid to go from... I started in theater, and I was afraid to go I thought there was gonna be a and that advice changed everything for me. - That's great. - I did a period film recently, and it was set in the 16th century. - Brooklyn? - No. - [Jennifer] 16th century. (all chattering) - One of the best pieces was from one of the other I was trying to figure out a scene, and it's like, you know, so much of it is this beautiful, which is great, but it's very hard to get to the heart of it, and there's this big scene in the film between me and one of and I was trying to and it was just this big turning point for this bit in Mary and I was talking to one of &quot;Basically what it comes down to &quot;is you just have to talk like a human,&quot; and as soon as he said &quot;Oh yeah, that's actually it.&quot; No matter what era you're in or what kind of language you're using, it's just about remember that this person is just a human being regardless of what situation they're in. - Did you have any challenge in playing a version of your director - Well, I was just mess it up, I think, 'cause She was there every day. It's not necessarily autobiographical, but I think what we've been saying is when Greta and I came together Lady Bird was born. She's come from us, but she's and she's the girl that we've or aspired to be when we were 17. - I want to go where - How did I raise such a snob? - Or, at least Connecticut where writers live in the woods. - You couldn't get into - Mom. - You can't even pass your driver's test. - Because you wouldn't - The way that you work, or you're not even worth - My name is Lady Bird. - Well, actually it's because your name like you said you would. You should just got to city college. With your work ethic and then to jail and and then maybe you'd and not expect everybody to do everything. (screams) - She's a ballsy girl as well. She's confident and she's and she's also got a lot of self-doubt. And again, we've talked but just having well-rounded is so important, and it's gonna gravitate towards 'cause So, getting to play a character like that that's magic and she's - Jennifer, when you were making mother! I'm curious about the process 'cause obviously when you know it's gonna be polarizing, and you know it's gonna go to a place that's gonna make some What is it like making a film like that? Is there a conversation around people are gonna go nuts over this? - I mean, we would laugh about it, but by the time we showed about what we were doing. We spent three months meeting talking over the themes of the movie and talking about the movie. By the time we got on what we were doing to the point that even and we have an F on Cinemascore, 63%, nobody's really surprised. We're just like, &quot;Well, yeah.&quot; We know that when we were on set, and it's kind of like an inside joke. I've never done a movie before where... Every time you make a movie you're like, &quot;I hope everyone likes it.&quot; This was the first time where we know not - [Matthew] There was no fear of that? - I mean, people hate it. No. I mean, if there was fear of that none of us would have been there. Anybody who showed up on We knew what we were doing. There really were no surprises. (floor creaks) (gasps) (high pitched ringing) - Do you fear what the reaction (Jennifer scoffs) - Yeah. (Emma laughs) We all do. - Yeah, but how so? When you're making it, you - [Jennifer] Sorry, you were asking them. - I know, but you went into this - None of us do. - knowing it was gonna be polarizing. When you're going into your projects do you fear that is this am I making a fool of myself? That kind of thing. - Yeah. Yes, definitely. But, I think that also there comes a point where you just have to let it go, and go, &quot;All right, well this is it.&quot; Like she was talking about, you go into it and you're like, &quot;Well this is what we're doing,&quot; so in the end if you had the with a group of people who I mean, I think it's actually harder when the wheels come off when when there's a bunch of different ideas that are happening on the day 'cause I've certainly had that experience, going into something and having it turn into a That's harder to get behind and not be afraid of but when you're in a team mentality, which is the greatest thing, about getting to do the job that I do is that feeling of being a team and being a cog in a bigger machine, it's so amazing to know well all right, we all did this together, we're going down with that ship. - It's always a gamble. You never know. - And, you hope that you're doing work that's exciting or challenging enough that you don't know what the reaction is necessarily gonna be. - Are you usually right? Are you usually right in how - Well, it's interesting I just assume it's not gonna I don't know why. When I'm going in I always assume that, but for me my fear is that what we were doing. (Emma laughs) So, the idea of you need the Cliff Notes, you know what I mean? To go to an audience member and be like, &quot;Did you get that part?&quot; You know, all the work we put in. - So, your biggest fear was (all laugh) - But, I watched that movie and I loved it because I was like, &quot;Wow, this is so deep. &quot;Look at all this stuff they did.&quot; For me, I love all the that my greatest fear is that or get it, what we were doing, but those are the films all of a sudden will So, I allow that to happen. - I'm not normally right. I have no instincts at all. I just go in blindly, and &quot;Who knows?&quot; I'm so bad at knowing if a - Even after you've seen - Oh, yeah. When I saw Winter's Bone I was like, &quot;Well, better lock up shop. &quot;No one's gonna see this.&quot; You don't know, it's so hard. The first time I watch anything I'm just watching my am I bloated? Yeah, the first time I ever see a movie. Am I the only one? (all chattering) - Listen, I'm my worst critic, so I don't even listen to myself. - You don't listen? - I know I'm my worst I'm looking at just how - You don't listen to your music either? - No. - [Saoirse] Do you not? - No, not really. And, I don't even look at any I just don't want to see it. I just got used to listening maybe five years ago. - Speaking voice is the hardest part. That's like listening to It's like, &quot;That's what I sound like?&quot; - No, seriously. I just started listening - But, you know what's is that its just going from your feeling 'cause I hate watching never get anything out of it. Ladybird was the first time and go, &quot;Oh yeah, it's really good.&quot; But, I think that's because you obviously go from your instinct as well, and you're performing from your instinct. I find I don't need to That's not what I'm doing it for. I'm doing it for being on set and work. - Right, and I don't want to see it again and get programmed and do that again. I don't ever want to do in anything I do. I want to be fresh every time, and I just don't want to see it anyway. - I do my work is on the and that's what it was for me, and I don't need to see it. And, then the movie comes out, and I'm like, &quot;Oh god, I got to go.&quot; I will go down the red carpet, and then I will go out to dinner and meet people at the (all chattering) - Yeah, what were you saying? - We were saying Tate Taylor to do with The Help, but a lot of us at this table, and Tate Taylor the director of The Help made me laugh so much because and on the set of The Help he goes, &quot;All right, why don't you And, I'm like, &quot;I know It's like, with a tear. &quot;Do your teary cry smile in this scene. &quot;I don't care.&quot; I was like, &quot;Oh my god.&quot; I've never done it since. I was like, &quot;Fuck, it's my If I see it in movies, - That's the worst if I see So, you're the opposite. You learn from watching yourself? (all laugh) - You're like, &quot;He's figured me out. &quot;He got it.&quot; - It's my shtick! - I wonder if its because in real life I don't really wear a I'm at my house, whatever, normal. No one really stops me on the street or anything like that. Perhaps it's because I don't that when I'm acting my - Is that important for you - [Jessica] Yes. - Or, even once you've that physically you just want it to be very different to you. - In fact with Molly's it was a month before, &quot;You know, I think I want And, I was like, &quot;What?&quot; It was a whole out of nowhere because if you Google Molly Bloom she looks like a Kardashian. It's a completely different thing. - Take it easy. (all laugh) - In a good way, in the most fabulous way. We did the shading, we did to show that. I realized that for me I don't want it to be me in a character. - I think it's the same I find that with accents. I'm only starting to get - You don't have to do - Okay, all right guys. I'm so excited to be here, honestly. This is who I really am. But, I think that was I could use as a shield. Not that I wasn't delving into Maybe because I started when I was young it was a great way to - [Jennifer] Yeah, it's easier - Yeah, I mean, your of who you are, how you and I found only recently where I actually want to It's a very vulnerable thing to do I think with your physicality and how you sound and things like that. - Well. (Mary laughs) When I watched Rock of Ages I was like, &quot;That's Mary J Blige.&quot; - [Saoirse] And, you didn't 'cause you never watch - I'm like, &quot;Oh, that's awful.&quot; That's not supposed to be Mary J Blige, that's supposed to be the character. And, then I saw Mudbound at Sundance, and I looked at the character 'cause I was trying to direct everybody. &quot;Your part's coming, your part's coming.&quot; I was trying to hide from my part, and God was like. And, when I saw the I just started crying I was like, &quot;Who is that?&quot; It was a character, so where it was like, &quot;Wow - And, then was it easier because you could watch it and think, &quot;That's a character&quot;? - [Mary] I'm sorry? - Was it easier for you to because it wasn't you? - From that moment on I was able to watch the movie at Sundance. I sat and I watched the whole movie, but before my part came I was - You sound horrible to (all laugh) - Everybody's like, &quot;Shut I'm trying to direct them, and when my part came I to look at it, and I had to - Have you watched it since? - [Mary] And, I cried. - [Saoirse] Have you watched it since or have you only watched it the once? - I think I watched it twice. I think so. I think we watched it in But yeah, I mean, that was cool 'cause I see Mary J so I'm so glad we got rid of her. (all laugh) - Allison, is there someone in your career or a performer that has - Oh gosh. I don't know if there are. Well, I mean Laurie Metcalf. I first saw her in- - That's Saoirse Ronan. (all laugh) - She plays her mother in Ladybird, and I saw her on Broadway. - You're still pointing at me. - Well, I'm thinking. Now it just went out of It was Balm in Gilead. - The one this year? - Oh yeah, the one with the monologue, where Laurie had the long monologue. - No, where Laurie did a monologue, and I saw her and Glenne Headly, and I literally, I had two feelings. One was that I was gonna quit acting 'cause I would never be and then the other was They inspired me and watching those brilliant women perform, and then through the it's not like I'm just but different performances have Of course, now that you're but certainly every one of have inspired me. - Laurie Metcalf. Myself, Laurie. - Jessica Chastain. - [Saoirse] No, she's not Mary J Blige. - Well, I am now. - Yeah right, okay. (all laugh) - My god, Judi Dench. - [Saoirse] Judi, she's so cool. - One thing about I, and this is something is the decision to take and someone who is not just but is actually a real person. - Yeah, and how about that actually wrote it for me. - [Matthew] Right. - Whoa, they wrote that casting? - Very offensive. - [Mary] There was something about you. - That's what I'm saying. He must know the dark underside He just knew that I would... I think he knew. We had one little short video clip of the real LaVona Harding, and in the clip she wears a fur coat with a bird on her and these big glasses, but it's the only footage we had, and he couldn't find her. He interviewed Tonya and found both of their stories that he decided, &quot;I've &quot;through everybody's point of view&quot; 'cause it's crazy how everyone has a completely different so we couldn't find the mother, so it's Tonya's version of her mother, and Tonya thought her - Even when I was a kid did - You think Sonja Poor fuckin' you. I didn't stay home making No, I made you a champion knowing you'd hate me for it. That's the sacrifice a mother makes. I wish I had a mother Nice gets you shit. I didn't like my mother either, so what? I fucking gave you a gift! - It was wonderful because I got to do all this old age makeup. I was three hours in makeup, and I was like, &quot;Oh my I don't have to worry about my jowls. I didn't care about it. It was so freeing to go that I didn't care what I looked like, and it was really fantastic. Even seeing it I was like, I'm so awful. I don't know it was easy to watch. - [Matthew] It takes away the vanity. - Yeah, there's no vanity involved in it. It was really fun to play her. I have to always find that I like or I understand and there actually was that motivated her even though she's not gonna win Mother of Year at all. - Do you think about the before you agree to play the character? No. - [Jessica] I don't. - No. It doesn't matter. - I mean, before I signed 'cause I saw pictures of her, and I was like mmh, and then I met her, and actually then blamed myself for believing this story but I've played people and I don't think you can judge them. For me, I actually feel who are making mistakes. I have more empathy for the characters that do the wrong thing. - I judge mine, but then... I'll just go right in. (all laugh) When I was doing mother! that was so different in and it was incredibly irritating I would just continue to say, &quot;Well, why would she put up with that?&quot; And, &quot;Why would she say that?&quot; Because she's not me. That's not how she would handle something, so I was very judgmental and but in between action and cut, and when I was her I fully understood why she would think that way, but when I was me I was (all laugh) (lively music) - [Matthew] Emma, what's you've ever been given? - It's something I've said probably. - Probably something that she told me. (all laugh) - Let me run your life. - Let me run your life. - No, that's actually pretty good advice. Probably advice I've given to myself, things that I've told myself. - I was just thinking the same thing. I was just gonna tell you is by yourself. She's so hard on herself. - Yeah. And, I think because I have such a hard time forgiving myself that I get scared and then I lock up, and I'm like, &quot;Well, maybe As time has gone on, to play people that are unlike me, or where I need to go because I've felt for so so that's what I understood how to play, but now that I am able to to lose yourself in to find these people that and let their traits infuse your life. I mean, playing Billie Jean She's infused so much into my spirit. Now it's incredibly exciting. convinced to do that? - Sort of. I mean, there was a a couple of years ago, or whatever my half is as an actor and as a human, as a woman, but it become something to expand into because for a long time I was playing different teary cry smile and all. (all laugh) And, even if it wasn't supposed I didn't really fully - She's so mean. You're so mean to my good friend, Emily. - I know. Please don't talk about Yeah, but as time as gone on it's been so incredibly to dare, to not be afraid to make mistakes because as the most anxious kid you've ever met my whole &quot;Please don't mess up, And, that's changing which is incredible. - How about you, Allison? Worst career advice? - It would be obviously from myself. Don't do that, you're terrible. I'm just a terrible Are we all that way or no? I don't know. I'm really really hard on myself, but I usually try to go, &quot;What is Allison telling Allison to do? &quot;Let's do the opposite.&quot; - That's good advice. - I joined a Broadway musical. I got offered that, and I was like, &quot;I'm not doing a Broadway musical. &quot;I can't sing. &quot;I'm not doing that.&quot; I would've loved to do it. - Did you seen nine? It's the only one I've done, - [Jessica] It was good. - It was good, I was all right, right? - You were good. You're always good. - I love you. - [Jessica] Please. - Anyway, definitely myself. No one else has. Oh, there was one movie. Nevermind. (all laugh) - How about you, Saoirse? You've made interesting and you've avoided going the gigantic Hollywood blockbuster route. Is that by choice, or is that something that you see yourself as - No, definitely not. I mean, listen. If a big budget film came and they wanted me to be then yeah, of course I would do it. But, I've just found I've just gravitated towards certain things, but to pigeon-hole yourself as an indie actor or a movie star or whatever. It was one of the best pieces of advice that someone gave me recently is that you should never do something if you know what I mean. You should only do something because you want to or because and so I think that's something 'cause I've been the same as you, very very harsh critic on myself, really beaten myself up about And, also just knowing for yourself as much and I've always had that in my head. &quot;I should do this, I should do this.&quot; Not even just with work, but just in life. It's something that I with maturity and just realizing so that's something I've - Is there an actor living or dead that you would most like to - [Jessica] Gary Oldman. - [Matthew] Really? - Gary Oldman and Isabelle Isabelle played my mother in a movie, so Gary Oldman for sure. - [Matthew] Why him? - Since I was a little kid when he's someone that when you watch from performance to performance he doesn't look like himself. - [Jennifer] Totally, yeah. You can never recognize him. - That's what I'm drawn to in acting, and it means that in real life I'm sure he can go down the street and people don't recognize him which is insane to me that people wouldn't recognize Gary Oldman, He changes his voice, he He's spectacular. - I've said that in my earlier interviews, so I just want to say I think - [Matthew] She stole that from you? - Yeah, 'cause I used to - In 2012 I did an interview where I said he was my cinematic crush. - I hate answering these questions because I feel like I'll say one actor, and then I'll leave and I want to say Bill Murray, but I can't. - [Matthew] You can say Bill Murray. - No, no, I'm gonna say Bill Murray. No, I mean it. Bill Murray. I don't mean it flippantly, but I hate answering these questions 'cause there's just too many. - How about you? - I mean, if I don't do before the end of time I She's my everything. I love her so much. - You talk about her a lot. - I talk about her a little bit too much, and I also absolutely love Hank Azaria. I think he's criminally - Mary, you recently Is there a career path - [Mary] A career path I'm - Yeah, someone you'd in the acting side, the some of the roles they've played. - I thought you meant personally, no. I know this may sound cliche Meryl Streep is... I wish I could do some of that. She's another one that transforms. She goes from Death Becomes Her to the movie where she's I forget the name of the movie. - [Jessica] Sophie's Choice. - Yeah. She's just oh my goodness. The question of someone dead or alive, Frank Sinatra he was a great actor like that, and of course he's a great singer. Yeah anyway, Angela Bassett is another one that I think is just amazing. Those are my top two, and her because she's She made me laugh 'til I cried in Juno, and she's just amazing They just do it so easily. I want to be able to do that. Bill Murray-esque where you love her so much. Even in I, Tonya when she was being the worst mother in the world I was like, &quot;No, I think this is gonna turn around. &quot;I really like her.&quot; - I haven't seen I, Tonya yet, and I saw a preview at and I was like, &quot;Oh, I When she's cursing her - You're so brilliant in Mom as well. When I'm sad that's what I would watch. I love it. I love you and Anna together. It's great to watch. - I love you, thank you. That's really sweet. - I want one Billie Jean King question. How much did you interact with her? How much did you take and the things you learned - Early on we met. I sat with her and her partner Ilana and we talked for a long time, and we got each other's phone numbers, and I was like, &quot;Whew.&quot; We started talking about things, and I realized she had on those kinds of events. If you asked me about an event that happened when I was 12. I mean, obviously I would be in my 40's, but I would say, &quot;Well, okay. &quot;here's what I learned from that, &quot;and here's how my life changed from then. &quot;I can understand it in So, I realized pretty of her at that time, studying from that era was gonna because she was in the midst and yet had to put on this public face as essentially the leader It was actually really in that time period and ask her questions every one in a while, but now we've gotten to know each other, - Did you see it for the first time when she saw it for the first time? - No, she watched it on her own in Vegas twice in a row in a hotel room. I was like, &quot;She's watching it now?&quot; And, they were like, &quot;Yeah, I was like, &quot;What?&quot; (all laugh) I didn't hear from her for a week. - [Matthew] Really, and what - She was so wonderful, and she's been so but I think it's just a deeply I mean, think about your first and then you're watching someone play the heights of that love. There was so much secrecy, She's so generous with her life story, and that has to be so excruciating, and she said that for her to watch or for Ilana to watch, you know Ilana's seen it nine times now, and it's a lot. I think it's a lot to take in. It's really painful to sit with, so she's been incredible and share it with the world in that way. - Is there one line one of your character's lines that has stuck with you and that you just really love? - &quot;You are not a stand up guy.&quot; It's from Silver Linings Playbook, and whenever David makes me - How often is that? - Yesterday. (all laugh) - How about you, Jessica? - Well, the only thing that's always quoted to me. Whenever someone recognizes me they say, &quot;I'm the mother Always. That's the only one. - [Matthew] It's your line. - It's good. I was actually at a boat show and these guys came over, this gay couple, and they were Southern, &quot;Pardon my language, but I was like, &quot;Yes!&quot; - [Matthew] That's fun. - Yeah, it was good. - [Matthew] Saoirse? - I have to think about that for a second. I think the one that I can just remember which I think is just is, &quot;Adapt or die, think on your feet,&quot; or, &quot;think on my feet and that's from Hanna, and it's this bit where her dad is basically and she's got all of this in order to go out into this world that she knows nothing about, but I think that's quite to just adapt to every as much as you can. - I have a good one that in probably actually every but I get to say it in this one. &quot;Well, my storyline is disappearing. &quot;What the fuck?&quot; (all laugh) - [Matthew] That's a good line. That was a big laugh line at the premiere. - It's a very funny little scene. They thought they were gonna cut it out, but they just found, &quot;Well, They kept moving it all 'cause it's such a funny. - Very in the character too. - &quot;Love is a kind of survival.&quot; Florence Jackson. - [Matthew] Interesting. That's great. And, you have the last word. - &quot;Piss off Quiznos.&quot; It's from Easy A. I just shove a Quiznos guy and just say, &quot;Piss off Quiznos.&quot; - [Matthew] That's a good one. - I just watched it last night. - I auditioned for Easy A. I wanted it so bad. - Well, guess what? (Jennifer laughs) You didn't get it. You didn't get it because you suck! - Outside! - Have you ever told her that before? - [Jennifer] We've auditioned Oh my god. - All the same stuff. - Two days we spent doing this. - We're texting back and forth. That was only a couple We were like, &quot;Really? - Well, what was funny and we were like, &quot;Oh, I And, it wasn't until the &quot;Oh my god, I auditioned for Easy A.&quot; I didn't even remember it. - Have you ever thought - No. What? (all laugh) - [Matthew] Why not? - [Emma] I would love to. I keep trying to convince her. - Damn. - I have so many ideas. She's always like, &quot;We'll - There's one idea that's floating around, but it's secret. - Yeah, it's a secret idea. - Wait, did you forget about it, or where you being a better secret keeper? - No, I was just tying to - Oh, you're so much better than me. - [Matthew] You can tell us what it is. - No, we can't. - On that note, I'd like That was a terrific conversation. Thank you everyone. (lively music) - Ready? - [Cameraman] Okay, quiet on set. - And, I look down the lens. - Let's do it. - Hi, I'm Margot Robbie. - Bryan Cranston. - Robert Pattinson. - John Boyega. - I'm Sam Rockwell. - William Defoe. - Emma Stone. - Allison Janey. - Guillermo del Toro, and - Thank you. - Thank you for watching. - Thanks for watching - The Hollywood Reporter. - The Hollywood Reporter. - On YouTube. - On YouTube.