Today, Somewhere on Earth is off to discover the Sultanate of Oman This is the Orient which the Romans called Arabia Felix, It's also the land Bedu in Arabic means desert dweller. Dhofar, in the far south of the country, Mohsin has a PhD in biology. He devotes most of his time Two thousand years ago, and their influence spread worldwide Said is a mountain Bedouin. He lives in the Hajar, a mountain range in the north Said is also a tree man. Like those who have gone before him, Said lives his life according to the seasons He takes care of them, for they're all he has, Ahmed and his son live in Balad Sayt literally the Green Mountain. Greenery means water an irrigation system when the farmers channeled spring water and thus managed to thrive Ahmed is an Arif, a water master, a guardian of knowledge, We prefer to keep it Those who have gone before us In ancient times, caravans would cross the deserts The Rub' Al Khali, the empty quarter, is situated in northern Dhofar. It's a natural frontier Saudi Arabia and the Emirates. In this vast, immense expanse, insignificant specks. When you're in a big city you're caught up in the bustle We're fully aware compared with the immensity of the desert. The desert is immense and boundless, I feel at home here, The desert gives me serenity and peace. Mohsin's father was a man of the desert, and he transmitted to his son The Bedouins Moving from place to place they had to face hunger, thirst, and the merciless sun. This parched earth, wouldn't allow them to camp For those tribes, nomadism was less a way of life It was the Bedouins who long ago traced the caravan routes They would cross the boundless expanses frankincense. The historians say that the frankincense passed through here You can easily imagine Likewise, it gives you an idea It is so important that some people The Bedouins with their precious cargo. Even today, with all the modern means, Imagine what it was like Frankincense was important. It was priceless. At the time, the difficulty of the voyage It could be worth its weight in gold. The fate of the nomadic tribes which was in demand the world over. The story of frankincense on the southern tip of Oman. These wild trees are full of resin frankincense. Today, olibanum, is still a must. In the Dhofar region, It's said to keep evil spirits away. It cleanses the atmosphere It is used in the rituals Mohsin is the guardian of this legacy. His family has always owned trees. This is where the story in the Najd, not far from Yemen. It's harvest time. Many say that the Najd I wound the tree so it weeps. These are the tears of the tree. In order for it to produce, The tree suffers, Of course, This tree grows My responsibility our responsibility is to protect it, to see that the tree continues to thrive, My favorite spots, the places I like to explore are those in the mountains of Dhofar. I'm attached to the spots I've always liked them and that's why I feel at peace Since he became a PhD in biology, It's a scientific I'm at peace when I'm out alone It can be in the mountains, or along the sea. I feel at peace. I feel that it's my place where I belong. I never get this feeling Only when I'm away from it. The only way to get around Certain parts of this broken terrain Mohsin devotes all his spare time to studying and understanding the scientific name Frankincense runs in my blood, in the blood of our history. Our entire existence is bound to it. It's in our flesh. &quot;All of Arabia exhales so wrote Herodotus, a Greek historian If Herodotus was acquainted it means that olibanum across the deserts and seas. The frankincense routes or overseas towards India, Ever since ancient times, these roots have linked Oman and to the Far East via the Indian Ocean. Dhofar earned a widespread reputation [Arabic spoken audio] The Omani seafarers and gave the world Thus laying the foundations Frankincense has traveled far and wide. It has penetrated Asia It has crossed borders, It has opened the gates Olibanum, this perfume of 1,000 mysteries, has even penetrated The frankincense routes They connected communities, united different peoples Thanks to the caravans and the seafarers, frankincense has had a role to play across the continents These ruins are a testimony [Arabic spoken audio] Here, we're in the citadel of Samhuran, where the frankincense was exported It's a historic port. The frankincense would leave here the Mediterranean Sea, [Arabic spoken audio] This port is a historical link the Greek civilization, There is a reference to Samhuran That shows that there were already and the major trade routes of the time. At the time, different civilizations were vying There were many military expeditions undertaken to find the source by Alexander the Great, for example. The frankincense and that's thanks to a microclimate Once a year, Dhofar receives but the frankincense tree needs above all, The hotter it is, The frankincense tree Humidity is not good for it. It can't be too cool, either. It grows in regions that are dry and arid, The seasonal winds Mohsin is on his way to Manzala, The name means land of trees. Mohsin knows a man there That man, a Bedouin as well, has worked all his life I see you have a herd of camels. I need one for a few days. I have to go to Manzala. Let's go take a look, one might be right. One has to use a camel in this region. The trails are impossible for cars Here, we packed everything we'll need, food, blankets, water, everything we'll need At the bottom of the canyon a thriving frankincense market The merchants would come here to buy it directly Then, another voyage would begin. Frankincense is known yet the tree itself Far from the coast, the locations of the groves Manzala still preserves this mystery. -Salaam alaikum. [Arabic spoken audio] I've come to learn how you go Show me the old method, the technique We've always done it like this. These are the cuts. After making the cuts, you wait 20 days. After 20 days, the first layer appears Then, you stop at the fourth cut. Is it the same for all the trees? No, some don't produce anything so then you stop. The frankincense you harvest here, When the resin flows, The best incense It has the lightest color. The desert Bedouins don't speak Arabic. Even today, they continue to speak Even though times are changing in Oman, In his quest for knowledge, Mohsin listens attentively There are a lot of trees here. We've always been part of the Manzala. We share the trees of the whole wadi. Manzala means a region of trees. Each person has his territory. Everyone knows That's always been the tradition. -Do you mean from the beginning of time? We have to respect the tradition literally. This holds true not only for my family, All of them. As long as there are trees here, In these hushed, timeless valleys, only the words of the Bedouins [Arabic spoken audio] To the south, Dhofar borders on the sea, the Sea of Oman and the Indian Ocean. Scheherazade drew her inspiration and one can easily imagine striking out across these waters Mohsin owns a few trees himself, an inheritance. He and his nephew He is also transmitting and hopes to heighten [Arabic spoken audio] Right now, the trees are suffering as you can see here with these insects. We have to find out why Why is this tree healthy here [Arabic spoken audio] There are other insects Again, we have to find out why. When they overtap the tree it's weakened [Arabic spoken audio] To understand and to share, that's the mission Knowledge of the frankincense tree which is thousands of years old. It's the pride of Mohsin, There are no limits to knowledge, but before leaving this world, and make a significant advance Mohsin is perpetuating He carries us off of frankincense, Larger than all of France, the Rub' al Khali covers one-fourth This boundless wilderness and those who live here. It's a last frontier, defended by the wind For the Bedouins, a hostile, arid land, The temperatures can soar and plunge to -10 at night. The dunes can shift in a few hours, The French poet Arthur Rimbaud was 26 years old He answered the call of the desert. During the final years of his life, the poet traveled He roamed these vast expanses on foot, His friend Verlaine dubbed him &quot;There's one thing insisted Rimbaud. &quot;That is, to lead a sedentary life.&quot; In the desert, you feel hunger, You lose yourself Realm of a few madmen, and somewhere amidst these dunes, One can easily imagine the British soldier crossing Arabia Face-to-face with the desert, He approaches as he says, The man surrounds himself solely the only men worthy of his trust, In the peninsula, he earns the honorific name Thirst, hunger, and a hostile environment, this is Said's daily lot. Within him dwells He is a Bedouin as well, This wadi is called Salma. My village is named after that river. I've lived here all my life. This is where I was born. We're in the mountains here. I wouldn't leave it I wouldn't want to live down there I've always lived here. This is my land. I'm attached to these mountains. I don't like to go down into the valley. When I travel, I always come back very quickly to Salma I get homesick very quickly. Said has a three-day walk several hours to his village. He lives right in the heart This range is in the northeast Said lives in this remote valley When Said was a child, no electricity and no roads. Said doesn't know how to read, I get around the valley only on foot, never by car. I know all the wadis, all the rivers, and all the channels because I've walked them. Wherever I go, I use these trails. The same trails my ancestors used. I never learned how to drive a car. It's a bit late for that now. I'm almost 60. According to a legend, this narrow gorge meaning the hidden village. It's called that because it hides when you begin to get close to it. For many years, was protected and hidden from view. Then one day, a tyrant discovered it. He seized its riches Ever since this sad tale, Not far away, in the village of Salma, Said's life consists and his fruit trees, date palms in particular. The date, In this plot, there are six palm trees. Over there, another five. They belong to my family, to my brothers, my sisters and my cousins. I'm the one who takes care of them, We have 70 date palms and all. These branches are palm flowers. It's where the pollen is. I put them in my tunic here, and I wet them so the palm tree This is how we pollinate the palm trees. I have to wet them. Otherwise, it wouldn't work. Now, I have to bring them up the tree. Dates are the sugar of Oman. The inhabitants eat them Said has been climbing I learned everything from my father, and the old-timers before. It's the tradition here. I've been working in the palm groves I also take care of the irrigation here, and in the other spots I've been doing the same thing For years This is my life. Everything needs water. Every living thing needs water, Everything was created from water. Where do man, the animals, the trees, From water. It's the very essence of man, I'm not afraid, even 40 meters up. I'm not afraid, 40 meters up. The Hajar mountains are a mineral barrier All this space and seeming hostility have shaped the life, spirit, Once nomads, they owe their survival that they succeeded in taming. In controlling this craggy terrain, they've made life emerge Our ancestors devised the entire system that allows us and then to the terraces. From the top of the mountains, Every morning, Said makes his ritual tour crossing it from one side to the other. The only path possible in these mountains The climate here is milder The Bedouins have settled in the highlands and Said is continuing We eat and drink thanks Just like our ancestors before us. We came into the world Now, we continue to work the land, and live from farming They follow this way of life The Bedouins are keeping the past alive, and this once-abandoned village as well. They keep up the houses so that their memory will never disappear. The terraced plots to the Hajar Mountains. Said lives a solitary life here. He tends his trees that feed his children. Perched on the mountainside, These are the lemons. Our grenadines are here, the peaches over there, Said knows that one day he too will have to pass his trees All that is in his chant. Born in the palm grove, his lament rises and drifts away Forty years is the prime of life. Fifty is another age, Then 60, the time to reap The fruit of our experience has ripened, Said, a mountain Bedouin, His hands bring forth lemons, This is how life flows Several hundred miles and the capital, Muscat, lies the Djebel Al Akhdar, The village of Balad Sayt It is situated near a wadi, a canyon. A trail has been recently opened but for a long time, For centuries, the villagers here could only count so they managed to master water. In Balad Sayt, the whole life of the village from one generation to the next. Parents teach their children right life comes from water. I would like to do like my father It's always been the tradition here: growing crops, irrigation, After my father, it would be my turn to pass my knowledge and later on to my own children. The spring water is channeled by these aqueducts The channels and plots of land so each family gets its fair share. This irrigation system We're in the heart of the Green Mountain. Here, the air is alive Ahmed and his son Ahmed is the Arif, the water master. His role is to take care Everyone respects Over its 5,000 years of existence, the system of canals Naturally, they had to appoint men The water masters have an overall view laid out like a spiderweb. Once a week, I check all the channels [Arabic spoken audio] Every year, one member of the community [Arabic spoken audio] This year, I'm the one in charge. It's my job. I'm in charge of the maintenance If something needs to be repaired, We buy what we need for the repairs, [Arabic spoken audio] We teach our children If we don't teach them at this age, they'll never know what needs to be done day by day That's why we ensure they come along They come everywhere with us. We're proud of them This way, everyone knows That's why our children It is to learn. The water masters are the guardians The falajs have been classed Even today, life in the Djebel Al Akhdar By tending the falajs, the water masters become with the whole network, and they ensure Once, long ago, Five thousand years ago, Once a month, Ahmed, here's the falaj we have to clean out. We'll start at the source and then go on to the channels, These mountains enjoy a different climate It's not as hot in the summer, In November and December, the mountain is buffeted a true godsend for these valleys. The falaj must never get clogged up, and even less to rot. The water must always flow. There should never be any bugs It's important to take care of the water. Nothing will go wrong Thanks be to God, our fathers taught us Of course, we could use cement, We want to preserve as well as the beauty of the falajs. [Arabic spoken audio] The whole canal system Our ancestors worked very hard. It wasn't a simple task. That's why it's important for us We have to take care of the channels, the quality of the water That's why we prefer to keep it Those who've gone before us Ahmed and his son work Their life continues The mountain jealously guards It's much better living here in these isolated regions Down there, you don't feel the weather You spend all your time running around. It's not like that here. We can enjoy the passing of time, and we can take the time to say hello. We live in the old way. We're not contaminated by the city Here, our modest dwellings In the palm grove, the main canal Each plot of land, The water masters see They know all the ramifications and channel the water where it's needed. We irrigate every nine days It has always been like this. It's our system here. Everyone knows the system. Nothing is written down. Everyone knows when it's their turn. From noon to 4:00 p.m., Then, someone else until 8:00 p.m. Everyone gets their turn. In the Sultanate of Oman, the Bedouins People of an oral tradition, they tell their story This memory is engraved in these waterways