Cannabis has been vilified to a but it's now finally being decriminalised in more and more places around the world - it's And for very good reasons! Compared to cause one in twenty deaths just this justify harsh prosecution and punishment, its Naturally there was a lot of pushback and the discourse over the last few years, you might upsides and few, if any, negative side effects. What made this worse is that criminalization made especially its long term effects. hurdles and studies often had In the last few years this so it is time to bring new evidence to the weed is still much less harmful than alcohol, than we thought and can have significant It seems that...ehm, what are you doing? Before you tell us how dumb we are, please we think prohibition doesn't work and means that we need to treat it as what it is: So let's take an honest look at some Weed is getting stronger and stronger Cannabis's magic juice is Tetrahydrocannabinol, THC. It docks on your cannabinoid receptors, activates some regions and calms down others, The more THC, the more intense the high. or at least this is what the market is providing. of THC in legal and illegal Cannabis products has ever more potent strains are bred, products like have become increasingly common. While the share Unfortunately just about every problem weed At the same time more and more people use weed. than alcohol for the first time in 2022. In up from 22% in 2018. It is not possible to say since studies are pretty inconsistent and vary consumption went up, in others it stayed began in the early 90s and sped up in So today more people consume more weed and it is the strongest it's ever been. Let's start with something that used to Weed Addiction And Withdrawal Symptoms A big narrative about weed or at least not that big of a deal. Studies clearly show that the majority it is just a casual high About 2 in 10 users develop a cannabis use from the inability to stop when you've will have negative consequences, to tolerance and You are doing it too often, even if it's bad There are three major risk factors here: The when you start using cannabis. The more THC, the the higher your risk. If you smoke too much on your life. So if this is you, toning 1 in 10 users develops a serious addiction. is significantly impaired or held their time either using or recovering building a tolerance they need increasingly Studies found a variety of negative effects: Heavy restless, paranoid, anxious and even for many addicts it feels like they need weed help at first - while in reality, it makes Studies also found that loneliness and frequent you are more likely to use weed and if you use not always easy to say which came first, So, on the one hand, cannabis makes loneliness it can also make you feel more socially awkward This can lead to a downward spiral that ends Another thing many people who consume a lot boredom feel ok because it impacts the but good enough. You can spend your days stuff. Being numb rather than having fun. Boredom something new, but this is suppressed. This your daily routines suddenly seem boring and If you find yourself using constantly, this The numbness dulls bad feelings, making it easy get over bad feelings if you actually feel Lastly, let us talk about physical withdrawal will be for you, especially if you use sweating or chills, decreased appetite, in severe might have trouble falling asleep and if you do, withdrawal can put you in a depressive mood feel restless, angry, anxious or nervous. After a few days these symptoms will begin to entirely - the exact time depends on how much Now let's get to the worst part. Weed May Damage Your Brain This section was not fun to research because bad weed is for your brain, and whether or not. There is no consensus yet and Having said that, THC directly interferes evidence that it may alter this may go away again if you quit after The consequences vary a lot between individuals variety of potentially unfunny downsides: significantly worse. Sustained heavy use may perception, attention span, decision making, negative effects seem to go away or at but again we simply don't know Where the evidence is much clearer really bad for teenagers on multiple early, you have many more years to effects. Teens who use a lot are much This may just be correlation and but heavy weed users are more likely to to finish their education. They are on average achieved. This may simply be because if you have fewer interesting experiences And there is strong evidence that teens users issues like psychosis, schizophrenia, depression you start, the higher the risk - and it also making highly potent cannabis products even more only focused on the negative sides in this video, for most people weed in moderation is totally You do you, we are not your parents. The upside your experience will be more intense and special. But for teens, weed, especially using it with potentially life changing consequences. make this better. We now have a new chance under about the state of science and acknowledging that the worst one by a long shot. But also problematic If you really have to try cannabis, is in your twenties. If you are Don't do it. At least not yet. You'll Let's do a different experiment now! a business management software, you can do in three minutes. Don't believe me? I bet you You can try Odoo for free by clicking stays free forever with unlimited the website application to Then you just follow the website configurator website do you want to create? It could be a put down learning platform because why not. have and what is your goal. I would say science do you like? Or simply upload your logo and In step 3 you pick the different you just choose a template You did the first big step, you owe me five But Odoo offers so much more: applications HR - all the needs of your business centralized project while Odoo improves productivity and The most impact you can have on your dream Our latest drop collection has arrived! We here at kurzgesagt are known to cause some the truth is - we actually do it to inspire you. The universe can sometimes feel But that's not true.The universe is our home. This reminding you that you are just as much a part of Dread and awe are actually two sides super-soft scarf on cold winter walks and And at the core of this line-up is the optimistic than the philosophy of kurzgesagt. which is scary. But it also sets you free We also create other truly special edition of our Human Era Calendar. greatest journey, that took our ancestors from lot of time bringing these adventures worthy of representing this Add a brand new Weekly Desk Planner to be extra prepared for the next year Every single product you buy supports enables us to release our videos for for your support! kurzgesagt