Today I'm finally answering the questions so many making Mario Kart videos. How are you tilting glider and it makes me go faster on almost every be turned on. Do you have motion controls always controls always on, doesn't that mess up your not mess up my driving because I use a GameCube a GameCube controller? Don't all the good players secretly better? All right let's slow down there, more. In this video I'm going to show you why the Mario Kart 8 Deluxe. When starting out with unless you have faulty joy-cons these are actually players prefer to use the Pro Controller, and we could end the discussion right there. The Pro the top players, just like how it's working out we're going to take a step back and ask if the Pro Kart. At a high level of play the GameCube disadvantages when compared to the Pro Controller, controller is definitely easier to learn on. We'll but first let's take a look at the GameCube Now I know what some of you guys are thinking in 2001, but somehow it has stood the test of it is still commonly used by Super Smash the Nintendo switch. So yes, this controller is the buttons do the layout is similar enough to you would have no problem problems picking differences. The GameCube controller only has one also some buttons are missing, the left stick has and finally the GameCube controller has no mind because they are key to the advantages of the to drift and don't use R. Thanks to the GameCube can do this while nobody else can, and this is the faster? You might think that moving in a straight that's actually correct. Moving diagonally the gliders are designed weirdly in this game and total speed. The problem is, this higher speed is rotate your cart angle and now you're actually this technique is called glider vectoring. This drift off a glider, hold diagonally up in the out by holding down. Doing this saves a fraction a trick. But my glider vectoring looks like this, diagonal speed which saves even more time. But how motion controls turned on. If you using joy-cons vehicle in two different ways, by using the left reason on a glider the game combines your left when moving sideways, this is called motion glider only problem with this is, motion controls. See, off during regular driving, which is most of the and your driving can get messed up. It's very this to not affect your gameplay. In fact, Mario middle of their time trial to activate motion pause again to turn motion controls off. Although but in an online race, you cannot do this on every with the Pro Controller, most players just don't the GameCube controller? It does not have a motion However, it can still input tilt controls all you turned on. As soon as my mini turbo comes out, I D-pad and hold the same diagonal as the left stick down on the left stick and return my right thumb this works because you do not need to hold A in I don't have to worry about my controller tilt. single glider. Now, I'm not saying that the Pro it absolutely can but you have to plan carefully on Mario Kart Stadium you can activate motion mushrooms to do this. But, unless it's lap three, until you can find a convenient time to turn advanced techniques in Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, I myself wow that seems like a very cool, but very never get to use it, but thanks to the GameCube And if you watch my gameplay videos, I have been important technique for driving fast in Mario turbos. As you drift longer, you will charge up charge speed is not always the same, it depends mini turbo charges fast, if you drift shallow it that sharp, which makes it hard to maintain a fast mini turbo, you might end up overturning. However, without turning super sharp, this is called Soft this is the region your left stick has to turns out holding full right is not necessary. a fast charge speed but also a softer drift angle Controller's left stick has a circular border so needs to be to soft drift and you pretty much have necessary, too high and you get a slow charge until the mini turbo either charges or it doesn't. diagonals, however, these notches are not supposed diagram, it turns out that holding your left stick zone, but I discovered a way we can pinpoint notches built into the controller, here's how it's Y and START for a few seconds or you can left stick on a GameCube controller is really it takes the current left stick position and sets the left stick is already in the neutral position, position gets set to neutral. But what if I reset stick upwards but my controller thinks that that down to the real neutral position, it thinks I am the stick downwards to get there. In other words, Yeah I know, it's a bit confusing but it does make that for a moment. But let me show you what I I hold a very very slight upward angle, and then up diagonal notches, the controller thinks I'm fast charging zone for mini turbos. My controller angle. Anytime I want to drift to the right, I if I want to drift at a shallow angle I hold you'll want to use when drifting to the right, and use the up left diagonal to charge my mini turbo, is the best way to charge up mini turbos on almost to the GameCube controller's diagonal notches, and some videos. My soft drifting notches don't work get them working again. So the GameCube controller consistent, but remember, the Pro Controller the thumb positioning instead of simply pushing Controller at first, but if you play enough, then Controller. So at top level play, the GameCube but for most people, I think having a controller a pretty big deal. Okay we dove very deep into necessary to show why the GameCube controller can save time compared to Pro Controller users on inconsistency of having motion controls activated game to turn on motion controls mid race. On top time with soft drifting especially when you're in mind, does this make the GameCube controller disadvantages that come with using the GameCube weird, because there's no dedicated trick button. but it also does a hop and this can be a problem. hop over the trickable region, and pressing the now you're in the air, you just missed the and that is by shaking your controller. Unlike cause you to hop and this is especially good on tell where you can and cannot trick. And in case Mario Kart YouTubers, you can actually tell when does not have a motion sensor, so you cannot shake makes it easier and more consistent on several lack of feature compatibility between the GameCube actual downside to using the GameCube controller keep in mind if you're considering switching. buttons, this is really not a big deal as the Remapping is common on the Pro Controller, but make it easier to turn motion controls on mid race to do that. The GameCube controller is lacking the but this is fine as I keep joy-cons near me at And finally the GameCube controller requires an switch. In the description I'll have a link it's very easy to set up and I'll show you later Mario Kart 8 Deluxe? The GameCube controller? Or both. The GameCube controller makes it easy to use the downsides of having motion controls activated, incredibly easy and perfectly consistent which may advantage at the top level. The Pro Controller can on several tracks. Now before I tell you which not a top player, so take my opinion for what very knowledgeable about the game, but I should better on either controller. I simply cannot know makes a difference between the two, but with controller is slightly better at all levels of mechanic that is motion glider, which you can use hand, the Pro Controller's shake tricking does just far more gliders in this game than there are that having access to motion glider saves more the reason why I think the GameCube controller controller, I have a question for you. Does appealing? Does that make you even just consider that much which controller you use, but as someone imagine switching to a Pro Controller. Sure, sometimes, but I would also have to lock motion is one of my favorite mechanics in this game and I which is why even the Pro Controller doesn't the GameCube controller can do motion glider was definitely also unintentional and those two have in the end, is a beautiful way to play Mario play with a GameCube controller. If you start with the motion sensor, you will activate doubled your left stick will do both normal inputs and do motion glider without the D-pad, but if you doubled inputs will turn off and you will have input sounds great, I mean why would you want to constant motion inputs will cause you to also have the pros and cons of motion hops but basically but another consequence of doubled inputs is you very bad. So after you turn on your switch, make sensor and this will turn off doubled inputs. I've ever had it on by accident and I never knew how to then I watched this video which not only taught where I learned about the soft drifting problem. feel so off. Okay one more important thing, avoid cheap third-party GameCube controllers. I it out, and here's what I found. The official all the possible input values, but the cheap dead zone that is all considered neutral and you into it. Besides the obvious problem of not the controller reset technique for soft drifting party controllers, so I cannot tell you which Nintendo controller that I have linked In because I bought one recently just to test it Kart. I have also linked to the adapter I used to the Wii U or Nintendo switch setting, plug the and plug your controller into the adapter, for the delay but the pro guide is coming out really wanted this video to come out first, so I without it being this magical technique that is because this is so fun and it's not even that