Hello everyone, in this video I share with you how to sharpen a drill bit in 30 seconds even though you haven't done it yet even though you haven't done it yet. Use a piece of iron v 2.5cm - 10cm Use a piece of iron v 2.5cm - 10cm As you all know, two hexagonal nuts put together will create a 120 degree angle. Two hexagonal nuts put together will create a 120 degree angle and coincide with the drill bit grinding angle and coincide with the drill bit sharpening angle and coincide with drill sharpening angle Now I will create a 60 degree angle for the iron bar Now I will create a 60 degree angle for the iron bar Now I will create a 60 degree angle for the iron bar The diagonal edge of the iron bar is equal to the edge of the nut. The diagonal edge of the iron bar is equal to the edge of the nut Use toothpaste to make an impression Use toothpaste to make an impression Drill a 10mm diameter hole Drill a 10mm diameter hole Cut the bolts short so they don't get stuck in the machine when assembling. Shorten the bolts so they don't get stuck in the machine when assembling you have created a drill sharpener stand with a 60 degree angle you have created a drill sharpener stand with a 60 degree angle cut the nut in half to make it wider cut the nut in half to make it wider install two iron cutting stone discs to make it harder install two iron cutting stone discs to make it harder When sharpening the drill bit, remember to immerse it in water to prevent the drill bit from becoming tender. When sharpening the drill bit, remember to dip it in water to prevent the drill bit from becoming tender. Place the drill bit in the holder and rotate it slightly Place the drill bit in the holder and rotate it slightly on each side about 4-5 times each side about 4-5 times so the drill bit has been sharpened at an angle of 60 degrees so the drill bit has been sharpened with a 60 degree angle very sharp very sharp The second way is the most effective The second way is the most effective: draw a 60 degree angle on the paper draw a 60 degree angle on the paper Use this piece of paper to draw two parallel lines on the grinder. Use this piece of paper to draw two parallel lines on the grinder so you can create a 60-degree angle on the grinder. This way you can create a 60-degree angle on the grinder. Place the drill bit to coincide with the two lines. Place the drill bit to coincide with the two lines. Now the tip of the drill bit is perpendicular to the grindstone. Now the tip of the drill bit is perpendicular to the grindstone. Gently push the drill bit back up. Push the drill bit back up slightly. Note: Do not press too hard as this will cause the drill bit to not be evenly round. Note: Do not press too hard as this will cause the drill bit to not be evenly round. Gently glance the drill bit upwards Gently glance the drill bit upwards on each side about 4 seconds. -5 times on each side about 4-5 times on each side about 4-5 times fix the drill bit not tilting to the left or right If the drill bit is damaged, remember to grind on the smooth side of the stone so as not to damage the drill bit. When you finish grinding, the center of the drill bit must be right in the middle. When you finish grinding, the center of the drill bit must be right in the middle. The drill bit must be evenly round. The drill bit must be evenly round The slant on both sides must be symmetrical. The slant on both sides must be symmetrical with each other very even, beautiful and sharp very even, beautiful and sharp, what do you think, please leave a comment!!! What do you think, please leave a comment!!! What do you think, please leave a comment!!! Once you get used to it, you don't need to draw a 60-degree angle anymore. Remember to keep your hand steady, don't shake. Place the drill bit perpendicular to the cutting wheel. Place the drill tip perpendicular to the cutting wheel. Slide slightly up. Gently slide up each side about 4-5 times each side about 4-5 times so you have sharpened the drill bit so you have sharpened the drill bit in the simplest way in the simplest way please leave a comment and let me know which country you are from !!! Please leave a comment and let me know which country you are from!!! I really want to get to know and interact with you!!! I really want to get to know and interact with you!!! on the occasion of the new year 2024 on the occasion of the new year 2024 son lai wishes you and your family a happy spring son lai wishes you and your family a joyful, happy and warm spring , joyful, happy and Wishing everyone good health and prosperous business!!! Wishing everyone good health and prosperous business!!! I'll stop the video here bye bye guys!!! See you again in the next videos