Kris Jenner is known for to protect her family. But there's one story Rumors of OJ Simpson and Kris Jenner having a steamy affair. I answered the phone and It was OJ. OJ Simpson, accused of brutally slaughtering Kris's best friend. I will always feel guilty. Some people think like, you might be Khloe Kardashian's real dad. I always thought Kris was a cute girl. Did OJ ever try to reach out to you at all? My loyalty was with Today we are diving into Nicole Brown made Kris and exposing her dark He was like a big brother to me. I had known OJ since When I met Robert, I met OJ. We were really good family friends. The kind of friends that you and go on family vacations together. When Kris met OJ's wife, they hit it off right away. Nicole Brown Simpson was OJ was Uncle OJ To us, She was such a beautiful soul and had so much love to give Nicole was the best It was all about her I love you! When you watch this see that little quilt you're laying on? Mommy made that for you. Kris thought she and Nicole shared everything with each other, but Nicole was hiding her 911 emergency. Could you get someone over here now? He's back. Please. Okay. What does he look like? He's OJ Simpson. He's going nuts. And when Nicole was to Kris about her pain, Kris received a devastating phone call. I was coming back from and I was supposed to meet Nicole. She and I were supposed to have lunch. She said she wanted to show me some things and talk about what was in her safe. While I was gonna change and I picked up the phone Nicole's been shot. I said, &quot;Okay, I'm on my way. Where do I go?&quot; And she said, &quot;No, she didn't make it.&quot; OJ Simpson accused of killing his wife Nicole Brown Simpson. That's probably what she which broke my heart. I will always feel guilty that That was really traumatizing for her. Struggling with her own guilt about not being there for Nicole, Kris watched as the whole and only focused on OJ. In the case of the century, the most famous man ever OJ Simpson's trial is a business. It's a business for the media, it's a business for the Kris put her own grief aside to be strong for Nicole's family. Nicole's mom called me and said can we go get Sydney and Justin's The LAPD left the blood on the steps and going all down the front of her house. And I opened the door and I almost fainted because I had never been to a crime scene before so I didn't know what fingerprinting really would entail. This is like this was frozen in f****** time. But Kris was so focused that she was forgetting her own family. It was very difficult was on one side and I the kids were in the middle. My dad took us to court one day with him and didn't tell my mom. And I remember my mom was and Kourtney and I were It kind of tore our family apart. Kris's kids sided with Robert because they hadn't forgiven her for a painful mistake I had an affair. With a soccer player and I did. One of my biggest regrets in my life is that that marriage fell apart. We always protected our dad because he didn't want the divorce. We knew it was my mom's fault. Kris lost her family and Nicole was the only one there for her when she received more heartbreaking news. I got pregnant and had a miscarriage and my body entirely shut down. I was moody and depressed. Nicole really got me through that. She told me, &quot;I promise you'll get pregnant again. I'm going to give you all The most amazing girlfriend. And in the middle of Nicole's trial, the promise she made to Kris came true when she discovered that This has been a really tough year, for you know, tough 15 months for all of us. Kris was actually pregnant with Kendall Jenner. I think I've realized that I've latched onto rather than deal with the that just misses my girlfriend. I mask my emotion I know you do. So well. And when Kris received a shocking call, she didn't hold her emotions back. Did OJ ever try to reach out to you at all? It was dinner time when and I answered the phone and it was OJ and I handed 'cause he wanted to speak to her and I just remember them getting into it. He wanted to talk and My mom was extremely She was believed that, you know, her friend was murdered by him. My loyalty was with Kris Jenner shows up to court wearing Nicole Brown's maternity clothes. Kris remembered what Nicole had taught her and learned to put her kids first. the same way Nicole always had. Family's everything. As soon as I really sort of to putting all my priorities I learned from all those mistakes. I think I have one regret and But then I turn it around, I Kendall and Kylie. That says it all. Kendall, what's your middle name? My middle name is Nicole. My middle name is after 'cause that was my mom's best friend and I'm honored to have this name. Kris got her family back. But 25 years later, on the the media accused Kris of Oh my God. Did you see that article? OJ Simpson once bragged with wife's best friend Kris Jenner that led the momager What? Saying that he f***** that bitch until I broke her. That never happened. Rumors of OJ having a steamy affair. Many fans have even accused OJ Simpson of being Khloe Kardashian's father. Khloe Kardashian so After 25 years you'd think that it just wouldn't be a thing. But this time, Kris didn't let anything come between her and her family. I'm so over stupid rumors I think it's just really unfair to Nicole's family, my family. Once and for all, I have I sued the Daily Mail today. I just called my attorneys or we're coming after you.&quot; Kris will always protect Nicole's memory but now she's focused on remembering the good times they had together. The last time I was here We sat right over there. I wasn't gonna cry. But I think that instead of I think we just need to that we had with her and celebrate the beautiful Nic, say something. Like what? Nicole changed Kris's life forever, showing her what was truly important. My kids are my life. You just helped us fulfill our dreams and what our potential was. Life is about hardships. The Kardashians, we get through things and we get through them together. Never underestimate what that person that you don't have with you anymore has meant to your life and your soul.