The 200-strong German convoy unloaded their bullets. Villagers screamed in horror, pleading a US major looked around at his team... There was In today's episode of The Infographics Show we're the marine who took on the entire Nazi army. York City in 1913 to a French father and an Peter's dad sent him away to France to But Ortiz had other plans. He craved adventure. North Africa, secretly enlisting as a much to his father's horror. Quickly promoted to help defend isolated outposts against Berber Ortiz distinguished himself time and again, being His knowledge and tactical prowess earned him re-enlisted and renounced his American returning to America and the bright lights of At the outbreak of World War II, he conquer France and Europe, so he decided to During the battle for France, Ortiz was involved ended his life. As French troops retreated, Jumping on a motorbike, Ortiz sped towards the ignited the gasoline. As he sped away, the rising and a German bullet passed through his hip and Lying in agony, the Germans took him months in POW camps. After being told he would and regained all his former strength. Never Ortiz attempted to escape from every camp 1941. Now a free man, Peter secreted himself on the day Japan attacked Pearl Harbor and knew After debriefing intelligence chiefs in DC who he wrote to the Army inquiring about a commission. time to sort out. Not wanting to wait any longer, soon shipped out to Parris Island. learned that this man was not the Ortiz turned up wearing his Legion uniform and a After a few months, Ortiz was granted a direct initially slated to command an infantry platoon, be useful during the invasion of North Africa, Once embedded in Morocco, Ortiz's missions and report his findings to higher Commanders also expected him to serve as who might have questions about But Ortiz was not someone who could sit idly Using the previous connections he made during his deep behind enemy lines, including one time when who could not believe that an American officer During a night mission, Otiz and his team broke out and during the initial volley of fire, and another bullet grazed his thigh. However, most of the Germans, before beating As he was recuperating in the U.S., Washington the OSS needed a man like Peter Ortiz. With personally approved his orders, and he went By late 1943, the resistance movement in France the Germans had largely succeeded in that lacked the proper equipment, training, Ortiz's orders were simple. He, along with were to drop into southern France in an area rebuild local resistance elements, and cause as and their collaborators. Dressed in civilian England on January 6, 1944, embarking on a mission Ortiz was anything but nervous. In fact, that alongside the weapons and ammunition he Marine Corps dress uniform, complete with all the Legion. In Ortiz's mind, the French resistance Who better else than a US Marine stomping With that, Ortiz and his team parachuted Once on the ground, Ortiz changed into his dress the next five months. Meeting up with a squad of Ortiz soon discovered how bad the situation was. there was insufficient weapons, food and supplies, London for the necessary supplies. Within a and supplies had been airdropped into southern could take the fight to the Germans. But fighting Adopting the pseudonym of Jean-Pierre, Ortiz traveled around southern France couriers, scouts, and located safe houses. up hospitals. People flocked to join Ortiz was not before long that Ortiz began During a resistance resupplying mission, a British killing all but four of the crew. With the resistance needed to get them out Despite already being known for having taken escort the four airmen to the Spanish border Thanks to the fake identity papers provided the Germans guarding them, show some fake papers, Ortiz was so good at this trick that he pulled it their troops to stop handing over the keys, Behind the wheel of a stolen car, Ortiz made his German checkpoints and roadblocks. After twelve a half-mile from the Spanish border, where would be awarded the first of two Navy Crosses In February 1944, the German 157th Infantry Vercors by train. After rigging the tracks with troop train was in sight, Ortiz gave the order. soldiers staggered out of the train, Ortiz and his After several minutes of chaotic firing, Ortiz Germans, including 15 Ortiz personally dispatched. throughout the German forces, a bounty on Ortiz's head. Over time, this bounty Once, a fellow OSS operative was Gestapo interrogators could interrogate him. Ortiz had to rescue him. But would it be a on the way to Gestapo headquarters? No, Ortiz Outfitted with a German officer's uniform and in a stolen German staff car to the German Ortiz convinced the Germans he was taking Ortiz soon found himself at the center he was forced to move every night to a different this did not stop him from frequenting local continued picking up useful information tidbits. he overheard an officer boast about a dummy airfield. He claimed that the real After searching for several days, Ortiz found expecting a squadron of bombers to flatten when the British radioed back that Ortiz decided to take matters into his own hands. guard towers, another, led by Ortiz, literally at German planes. Within less than half an there. Several days later, a British bombing After this raid, the Germans became obsessed at rounding up other resistance members to catching him. However, little did they know One night, in a bar frequented by enemy officers, had been on the troop train that Ortiz swore how much he hated the United States, Marine Corps. Ortiz excused himself and before returning to the bar. had a fresh drink, he pulled out his pistol President Roosevelt and the US Marine Corps. Then, With more and more people around him getting decided that he had done enough damage and should story, complete with a grave that Marquis members Spanish border and made his way back to England. previous mission, his most dangerous In June 1944, with the battle for northern invasion of southern France just months away, the behind enemy lines to organize the resistance to Ortiz and his team of Marines were given an French-Italian border, Col des Saisies, was would jump from 300 feet, during the day, landing As the lead plane circles around, Ortiz plane and plunged towards the rocky ground. But despite the French jubilation over the One of Ortiz's men lay dead, his parachute had his back severely injured after the ripcord deployed. With two of his six-man squad out of the After distributing the weapons and supplies, to take the fight to the Germans. However, Once the Allies invaded France, the Germans the sea. This included sending in hardened SS to quash rebellions. These troops, accustomed brought a whole new level of horror to France. German troops carried out massive reprisals. by these troops, with thousands of civilians firsthand when he was holed up in the village After a blistering mortar barrage that Germans attacked them from all sides. Realizing with as many men as he could. However, only he the rest of the Marquis and villagers. he knew they were in trouble. The Germans were The group left their hiding place and began Unknown to them, a battalion from a German committing mass murder, was transiting from Italy through Centron. Seeing the first few vehicles, the men held their breath as one vehicle after Ortiz thought they were in the clear. Then they and machine guns rattling. They had been spotted. in sight. Numerous innocent civilians, were cut down. Ortiz tried his best to get swarming around them, it did little good. Ortiz knew they were in trouble. After he waved it for 20 minutes until the German into a still-streaming hail of bullets, commander and asked for conditional surrender. themselves up if the Germans left the village see a repeat of Montgirod. prisoner of war for the second time. were paratroopers who had dropped in as part of saved their lives- if Germans knew who they had But now, Ortiz and his men needed to survive which included two escape attempts by Ortiz the guards on a train, the Germans interned them Germany meant for naval prisoners of war. compared to more brutal places, life was done escaping. During his time there, he tried near the end of the war, he was successful. they learned the Germans had abandoned the camp. 1945, Ortiz approached the first Sherman tank and few more Nazis before the hunting was done.&quot; Ortiz returned to the United States to recover, and the OSS obliged. The Americans figured the where he would raise guerilla armies like in end to this plan. Not wanting anything to do 1946 as a legend- one of the few people in Now go check out The Insanely Crazy Story of a