I have never, in the twenty five years I've something as I was for Kingdom Hearts 3. I don't even know how to properly express Being a fan of Kingdom Hearts doesn't even I feel like I've lived this series, bled I'm not exaggerating when I say that I've I've been with this series since 2002; I've I'm twenty five years old, which means that Hearts has always been there. I've had twenty years to play the games, and cry. A lot. I pieced together the plot over time before pouring over Wikia pages to line the pieces I read and wrote a few fanfictions which will I played Kingdom Hearts at least once a year, It wouldn't be a stretch to say that the which isn't something I like to admit, but You can track my life through Kingdom Hearts Kingdom Hearts, Chain of Memories, and 2; Over 2 and Birth By Sleep; the eager, confused waiting for Kingdom Hearts 3; and now, the 3. With each milestone I gained another reason As a child, I was excited to see more of the with my pre-teen self that I thought about I dived headfirst into the bizarre lore; and never knew were present. As the franchise has grown, changed, evolved: transformed. Though the franchise won't end anytime soon, Just as you can say it's the final act for too marked the conclusion of a chapter in For many, this was an unsatisfying conclusion I suppose controversy has never quite been disdain originated from external sources. For those unfamiliar with the series, it's Not everyone has the patience to deal with Can't say I blame them. But, Kingdom Hearts 3 was one of the first opinions of fans. Evidently, it was not what everyone wanted, Often, even when I disagree with an opinion, I think Final Fantasy VII Remake is a bold remakes and the strict rules they're coerced why there are some who do not like that direction, people to make that point. I don't really hold Super Mario Galaxy 2 in derivative sequel which lacks a lot of the completely get that, for a lot of people, of a reason to love it. We all have different perspectives, we don't the same reasons. I understand that a lot better now than I Nevertheless, with Kingdom Hearts 3: I just I do not, and probably will never fully understand Because when I raced up to Gamestop that cold, on the car stereo, praying that I wouldn't plopped that Disc into my PS4, I was out of When I emerged from that binge, my face was more full. That left me... in a weird spot. There were very few people I followed at the most people I knew didn't like it. I saw claims that it was one of the biggest become its legacy. I've had a long time to think about that disparity, me feel... less than good about myself sometimes. I'm someone who champions detachment. Your video game opinions should never matter health, and they usually don't. But even I have to admit, coming out of that be it friends, other creators, or even just all I could think was... &quot;Am I stupid? Are my standards really that low? Did I overlook something? What's... wrong with me?&quot; It's no one's fault but my own, people are Yet, I couldn't escape the feeling that something I like to put on a mask of confidence, say that I've seen enough comments to build a not really the truth, is it? Occasionally I find myself trying to explain never shake the feeling that people think It's one of the reasons this video has taken this out there. Ironically, it would only get harder the longer Expectations continued to mount, everyone I didn't want to disappoint anyone, and that hours some days. Just as Nomura went through many drafts, I scripts. I started the first couple paragraphs back so much of it. I think it's been long enough. I can't let my insecurities hold me hostage. My video on Kingdom Hearts 3 is happening I'm here to tell you that Kingdom Hearts 3 Seeker Saga, and proudly sits among 1 and Whether you choose to accept it or not, this ever be able to muster. - Half of Kingdom Hearts' essence is found within The crossover appeal was what initially drew that its implementation can be fairly hit Spinoffs like Chain of Memories, Days, Re:coded, from the numbered titles wholesale. There might be one or two interesting shake-ups, for the most part, it's just you doing the game. I generally find that the Kingdom Hearts games integrations as somewhat of an afterthought. Kingdom Hearts 3 is on the top of mine in its Disney side. Excluding Hercules, Pirates of the Caribbean, new properties. We get films like Tangled and Frozen, your We visit a Marvel property through Big Hero And we finally get to step into the realm Story and Monsters Inc, a dream I've had since A lot of work was poured into these worlds. Films like Tangled and Frozen have had many KH3 is able to do this because it's not only mile, it's also one of the best looking games They've done so much justice to the films them. It's startling to me how many scenes taken even for a live action property like Pirates. We're a far cry from the PS2 Port Royal days, Sora, Donald and Goofy have been given a delightful did not need to do. Feels as though every Disney World was this they have ever been. Olympus Colosseum is the perfect kick-off We're given a chance to explore a whole new in its return. It's heartwarming to see Hercules again, getting theme. Where KH2 introduced the underworld, and let opposite and has you ascend to Mount Olympus. You arrive to help Hercules save the city the mountain. They really sell how dire the situation is, Amidst the blaze, you get to help citizens heroes! The scale of the world is unlike anything You can look back as you climb Mount Olympus Some of the world's secrets can only be found There are many different winding paths up heartless battles lying in wait. You cap off the ascent with a fight against up the cliffside, dodging the rocks it throws A storm gradually sets in the farther you of The Deep End plays, arranged by Yoshitaka In true Kingdom Hearts fashion, you defeat from Disneyland's Big Thunder Mountain. You'd expect this to be where any normal Kingdom midpoint. What follows is an exploration of Mount Olympus, Ice, Fire, and Wind Titans. I think it's fitting that, for the (likely) end of the original film, putting a nice bow It's a great way to ease players from the Toybox utilizes its scale wonderfully. I love how it feels to be the size of a toy, you like skyscrapers. True to its name, Galaxy Toys is super fun expect. Toys, video games, even a playplace! You get to run up and down the aisles, sliding 'em sock 'em robots, and fighting creepy dolls. Some of the new Heartless are giant mechs if you try to fight them normally. Naturally, you're allowed to pilot these mechs I love making an emergency escape, desperately It's a cool shakeup to the core gameplay, challenge outside of the mech if you really The Kingdom of Corona is a more standard re-telling You help Rapunzel escape her tower with Eugene, Along the way, there are optional mini-games about the world. Using Aero on the dandelions, splashing her It's small stuff like this that goes a long inclusions to the stories they inhabit, while Sora, especially, knows how exciting it is outside world. Who better than him to help ease her into San Fransokyo has a pseudo-open world to explore. We're at the point now where we can recreate on the sides of skyscrapers. As someone who loves the more explorative most satisfying level design in the series, everywhere. That explorative urge is heightened in The You're given a ship you can use to explore that feel like their own mini-dungeons. Along the way, you do battle with other ships, I've spent hours in this world sailing around, and ingredients. Practically every Disney World has something the most diverse set of worlds we've ever Many of them have even been given original and San Fransokyo. The Toy Story Trilogy is one of my favorites, with Buzz and Woody, taking orders from Sarge, This toy store is huge with secrets hidden Makes it feel like the gang is on a field taking place in between the movies. Gives off &quot;direct to DVD&quot; energy. The KH stuff even makes for a fascinating Ranger he thought he was in the original film. It puts him on edge: he knows how unnatural He's afraid of being possessed; pitted against Woody serves as the voice of hope and optimism. It's fitting that he's the one to save Buzz beatdown to a KH villain I've ever seen. I do kinda wish they chose to retell Toy Story of my favorite games. The scale of the world makes it feel like I should count my blessings. I swear to you, I'll make a video on it one I don't have anything against rehashing the perfectly valid. It all depends on how Nomura and his team themes of Kingdom Hearts. Seeing as worlds like Tangled already have Hearts, there wasn't much reason to change For Monsters Inc. I think it was vital to pick up after the be using the Laughter of children instead This has the effect of making Vanitas and force. In fact, it's the very essence of this world A common complaint with the Disney stuff is KH plot, which I suppose has always been true Most of the major story developments happen have, but in this case people take issue with The reason why Sora is exploring Disney Worlds of Waking after failing his Mark of Mastery. He does this by turning his heart into his forward. The Heart in this universe is a bit like a We've seen concepts like destinies becoming reuniting. It's as if Hearts are drawn to one another; down. Sora trusting in his own heart to guide him to become a true hero feels pretty in-line more or less effective than sealing keyholes Sora encounters much on this journey, but his heart already knows. His interaction with Pete and Maleficent reinforces after failing the Mark of Mastery; he doesn't his friends. His heart chose Olympus to remind him of his Hercules tells him that he can accomplish he's proven time and time again. I've already mentioned how Tangled mirrors but it ends with Eugene sacrificing his life his to save Kairi. And just as Kairi was able to bring him back bring back Eugene with hers. Sora's nature is to sacrifice himself for That heart of hers is what draws Marluxia her Light in case the Guardians fail to save Marluxia's presence here even reflects his siding with Mother Gothel, keeping a young in order to take advantage of their power. In Toy Story, toys have a sentience that is In a sense, these otherwise soulless pieces the love of their owners. Inanimate concepts being given hearts, now Young Xehanort is here to study how to place knowledge he would eventually use to help By separating Buzz from the people he cares and turn him to the Darkness, concluding that Sora and Woody conclude, however, that once will ever be enough to extinguish that connection. Whether you're stuck in the realm of Darkness, were never meant to exist at all: reunion Don't lose yourself in the sorrow of separation: create that sadness. The closer you look at every world, the more meaning Vanitas melds exceedingly well with Monstropolis' Mike and Sully help Sora battle those negative the lights on using positive emotions. Though they were once on a darker path, they things differently. No one is ever truly lost, and anyone can Darkness like Vanitas. Faced with beings of negative emotion for He's always making his goofy faces, trying His blindingly bright, childlike optimism Arendelle centers around the bond between Anna never gives up on her sister, even when order to protect them. This relationship is reminiscent of Sora and It took a long time, and a lot of effort, and pull him out of that darkness. Riku never needed to feel ashamed or afraid Sora doesn't let anyone's past define them. By the time you reach The Caribbean and San He's regained so much of his power that he's and teaching the members of Big Hero 6 more His journey across the Disney Worlds taught It's his drive to help people with all his be okay no matter what happens, his adventurous willingness to sacrifice himself to save those powerful. The Disney Worlds were able to make him realize and metaphorical sense, had been there all In the same way that the worlds in the first worlds in the second game fit a unified theme are meant to show Sora that he's a true hero, This will upset a great deal of people, but I truly believe that. All of them are not only thematically relevant growth as a person. By its nature, KH3 is a contemplative game, Most of its music consists of remixes, all installments, and it's the climax to twenty It's a stroke of genius to make Sora's adventure and I think they went to great lengths to inclusion. With all the talk of people wanting the next but wonder if a lot of people are simply sick I simply couldn't imagine Kingdom Hearts without - Kingdom Hearts 2 Final Mix has been lauded including by yours truly. And it is! It completely deserves to be considered as It's a wonderful game, but often it feels about what's &quot;right or wrong&quot; to do in a KH a new game is allowed to pursue. Just as I think the original Kingdom Hearts the same is true for KH3, even if all three When I was a kid, dreaming of an eventual to the Lingering Will, and by extension, the I read a fanfic called KH3: Brotherhood of remember. Did anyone else read that one, was it just Anyway, KH3 having keyblade transformations The keyblade system was pretty straightforward You get a neat little upgrade after each story overhaul and some stat increases. With a few exceptions, you essentially never as they're almost always weaker. In KH3, you're encouraged to use any keyblade on equal footing, and offer substantial gameplay In fact, they're an intelligent fusion of form change system. Every Keyblade has a transformation path you The Kingdom Key will eventually prompt you button, which you can do at any time. Doing so will alter your base combos similar From there, you can either perform a finisher change. Since you can switch between three equipped your current form change, battles feel more One minute you're using Happy Gear, drilling little yo-yos. Then, mid-combo, you can swap over to a form smashing your hammer into the ground. The visual effects for these transformations better to decimate heartless. In terms of game flow and function, I prefer They're themed to each Disney World, giving there, and have a variety of effects on your Double Arrowguns allows you to shoot from magic to shoot all of them out as projectiles If you pull out the Drill, your magic will like Fire did in KH2. Dodging with Ever After will create afterimages The Counter Shield is not especially useful a few attacks, with a critical counter thrown devastating damage. It's very satisfying to pick a set of three changes. Given that you also have a bunch of magic, this is the most variety a Kingdom Hearts playthroughs on Critical Mode really fun. I thought it was great even on launch day, never bothered me too much. You have so many ways to fight that it rarely I've seen almost everyone complain about Attraction They're cute little mini-games based on DisneyLand juggle enemies in the air, or even something My favorite is the raft attraction, where trap heartless, letting you ram into them I think it's cool that the DisneyLand rides it feel more &quot;Disney '' than ever. As someone who's primarily into the KH gameplay these mini-games are perfect. I also find that they do show up when it makes in Monsters Inc. or riding the TeaCups in off. I love that every keyblade has a unique shot restore HP. I love that Water can be used both offensively Reflect. I love that Flowmotion is still fun to use, much more limited. There are so many little things about KH3 a numbered title. The handheld games were pretty alright for fun. None of them allowed you to do quite this leap back onto the console scene feeling this disposal. Every world you visit, you're constantly unlocking A new keyblade, a new summon, more magic, arsenal of wacky attacks. To pair well with the gorgeous new graphical story arc, we're now taking on bigger threats You tango with a huge tree monster while you You fight a giant UFO in a playplace, with The spectacle here is insane, and makes the As the Keyblade War draws near, it would make Yet, it also doesn't skimp on the more down-to-earth You get to battle Davy Jones and the Kraken At World's End. You get to fight a Dark version of the original the new Baymax. By the time you reach The Graveyard, you're leading to this amazing six hour long climax All of this is enhanced when playing on the the epic impact of these boss fights on my It feels so right to stroll up to all these from Toy Story to flatten them with. It's not as focused as KH2, where everything fights were more like controlled duels that KH3 is a little more free form, a little less But Kingdom Hearts has never been the pinnacle An important point about these games is that genre with the turn-based feel of Final Fantasy. In basically all of them, you can grind to them in half. It makes sense to me that throwing out a big amounts of damage, it feels just as good as of that visceral action feel. KH3 manages that balance pretty well, even did. I suppose I go to these two games for different the other entirely. KH2 was so focused on its combat, that other I don't think it handles its Disney Worlds and it isn't nearly as fun to explore or platform. It also relies on a few too many gimmicks I'm not trying to bring down one game to praise these three numbered titles all have their I rate them all fairly equally. I'd even say, overall, that I still prefer What I'm trying to say is that combat depth Hearts, and I know that to be the case because despite it being quite a bit more unbalanced. It has the same building blocks that made Enemies have a consistent revenge value again, with them, and your freedom to choose, with of your situation commands, which basically that matters to you is under your control This includes the difficulty, which now includes the Pro Codes which let you toggle various liking. It's the same with EZ codes, which feel like awesome to see such a modular difficulty selection. You can have your HP and MP drain at a constant You can set your defense value to 0, you can summons. On the flipside, EZ codes let you auto-block resources automatically, equip abilities without What I love about this dichotomy is that I both sides of the aisle here. Obviously, it's kinda cool to have an option me into a particular playstyle that I'd have However, I think it's actually even cooler Excellents easier to get when cooking, or By the way, did I mention that there's an over here, where you gather ingredients and stat boosts? Or that, in the same world, you unlock little each represent a black and white Disney short This game is so rad, people don't like this? There's so much to do in KH3. You get to fly the Gummi Ship through a big in shorter, more controlled KH2 dogfights This is probably blasphemous for some, but of the Gummi Ship, it really fits well in helpful items. What it sometimes lacks in visual variety makes up for in its freedom to explore for EXP, and even secret boss fights. It gives you more of a reason to invest your You'll be making progress toward unlocking keyblades, and eventually fighting the Swarzgheist Thermosphere by Kenichiro Fukui. Since each world is bigger than usual, with to fill out Jiminy's Journal. It is true that KH3 lacks post-game content up for that by creating an incredibly solid size. And if I had to choose between the main game I think you'd know which one I'd pick. Especially since, per the tradition of Final however they like. And spruce up they did. The data organization is likely the hardest Well, the hardest set of fair bosses, anyway. The Lingering Will might outclass some of this set of bosses to the data org in KH2, These fights are excellent tests of your reaction I remember when I first fought Dark Riku, This is truly the pinnacle of what KH3 combat Young Xehanort has his best fight here, teleporting you, using his time manipulation in a way pacing of the fight. A well-timed critical counter can actually since he always ends the fight with one, that Luxord is a little easier than the rest, but than his KH2 battle. Figuring the game out involves breaking his you to fit in more punishes before your time To do this, you have to use the correct type He likes to fake you out too, with varying What's cool, though, is that this only makes There will be less cards on the ground while if there are more cards on the ground, technically challenge. It truly feels like a game you two are playing, hide and seek at the very end. Xigbar changes the shape of the arena to better His fight is focused on blocking his shots I haven't talked much about it, but airstep arsenal which lets him warp straight to bosses You tend to use it most in these data battles, For the most part, Xigbar dictates the pace dance party, and even a cute face-off minigame. I could go on for hours, I love every single Saix and Dark Riku veer a little bit into well designed that it hardly matters. Marluxia has a sick Doom counter phase where Xemnas forces you to contend with his laser your blocks and dodges. Xion can reduce your max HP by hitting you. They're awesome, every fight is awesome, they they're so coooooool! And they all have really, really good remixes, Komiyama. Oh my god that one is good. It ends with a battle against Cole Sprouse, to one of Yoko Shimomura's most legendary This is everything that made The Lingering It will test your resolve as a human being, this character. Kingdom Hearts 3 may not feel exactly like like 1 to begin with. 3 did exactly what I wanted as a sequel mechanically, playing it. That's all I could ever ask. - Kingdom Hearts 3 is the conclusive chapter We're here to save the Guardians of Light, once and for all. Other threads run in the background; table For the most part, though, I would describe Predictable, but cathartic. If you were a fan of Kingdom Hearts during that was going to happen in advance. I saw the phrase &quot;Re:connect Kingdom Hearts&quot; The question wasn't what was going to happen, I suppose the how of it all didn't resonate Well, it resonated with me, you heartless Though it was removed from KH3 to serve as ~ a fragmentary passage does a good job setting Aqua as she attempts to survive in the Realm her, representing the Darkness itself, a consistent As you'd imagine, the Realm of Darkness is creating false hope. That Aqua hasn't broken under its influence, can't even place anymore, is a testament to It's another reminder of what the stakes are need of saving. There's quite a lot this story needed to accomplish. It needed to tie together the stories of Roxas, Riku, Mickey, Donald, Goofy, and Sora; plus, On top of that, it needed to introduce a ton the Radiant Garden researchers, and continue would continue the story after the Keyblade Given how much there was to wrap up, I think Everything you do in 3 has something to do Revisiting Twilight Town is mostly for Roxas. You meet up with Hayner, Pence, and Olette It's a bittersweet, nostalgic trip. As Sora says, it feels like it's been forever even if it hasn't actually been that long It shows how much Roxas has been longing to It's familiar, the trams are running, the But now there's a film festival, a bistro been repaired. You have to run through the sewers to get like nothing's changed. Ansem and Xemnas are a perfect fit to antagonize have to go to sustain the life of a Nobody, This is a pattern the story falls into. At each leg of the journey, a new idea or Riku and Mickey are on a mission to save Aqua build a vessel for Roxas; all the while, Ventus when Aqua is brought up or when he's confronted Despite what many might say, there's actually and in between Disney Worlds towards this One of the reasons they're able to recruit Young Xehanort and Dark Riku, whose efforts able to recreate Xion to become one of the Vanitas' resurrection occurs in Monstropolis in the world, and he's able to alert Sora Xehanort's shown to have a fallback plan in and Larxene to find and safeguard the new There's a whole side plot with Vexen, who alongside Ansem the Wise, ultimately making vessels for Xion and Namine. We cut to Kairi and Axel bonding together it isn't much, their scenes together are really Their relationship has come a long way since of someone who never existed are... tough It makes their fights at the Keyblade Graveyard What I'm trying to outline here is that there's you save Aqua, the crescendo of a chess match they were young lads. Perhaps some of the early narrative pacing more satisfying, which is a bit disappointing midpoint of 2 was. But that also means that the end game of 3, Sora, having regained his confidence, journeys alone, and what a fight that is. Anti-Aqua by Yoshinori Nakamura is a harrowing She's lost the battle against her insecurities, to the surface, her loneliness, her fear, She's become one with the mirror images she after an eternity spent with it being her It's heartbreaking to see Aqua like this, Not even the strongest of souls can brave Without the warmth of others, we'd lose ourselves. Our power is limited, and sometimes, we need Sora, the blinding beacon of hope that he little help from Riku, saves her from that Her reaction waking up on the Destiny Islands It says a lot that, upon waking up, she still That's how long she's been trapped, it's become So when Sora and Riku assure her that she's home, the tears that fall down her face are The relief flowing into her is palpable, you of their tension. This is the payoff to a tragedy set-up back awaiting for nearly a decade. Since everything is so backloaded, this event a chain reaction of payoffs. As soon as Aqua's safe, the next course of we get to play as her in a short battle against Unfortunately, Vanitas gets the upper hand, fully recovered from her experiences in the When all hope seems lost, Sora is able to to summon Ventus. Watching him crash in to save Aqua was another them finally talking to each other after all both actually here. I'm trying my best not to rattle off a bunch where I'm coming from here. The climax of KH3 is so good, it's one of had to be. This is the ending of the Dark Seeker Saga. I'll say once again that we all knew who was seeing them back in action, smiling and safe more than worth it. I revel in the smaller moments, like the Guardians to the Keyblade Graveyard. Ven remembering Axel after their brief bonding Aqua's swelling pride in how far Sora, Riku, them as children. Even Ven and Aqua's quiet moment together to save Terra together, warms my heart. These characters all mean the world to me. I've been following their stories for most nightmares. They've been killed, trapped, possessed, sent We waited years to finally see them happy seeing that goal realized. It's not without its dramatic turns, though, was something I could never have expected. At this moment, you're on top of the world. You've regained the Power of Waking, you've just completed a battle against a horde of Surely, we're ready to take on the Organization, Terra appears, catching the Guardians by surprise. As his hair turns white, and he rushes them, blink. One by one, the Guardians are taken out, while This is what the Guardians are up against: They're outnumbered in this clash. It's seven lights against thirteen darknesses, As Sora loses everyone, he doubts himself. All of the growth he had throughout the Disney a single one of his friends. As he says, without them, he's worthless. And this is where Riku shines brighter than He knows the situation is hopeless, he has It's him and Sora up against a force of nature, Instead of giving into that fear, that despair... Riku clenches his fist, and raises his Keyblade He's been through so much. He's brushed with Darkness many times, it's with that and become a Guardian of Light. He's battled his inner demons, gotten over person. Which is what makes this line all the more Sora far. It was his unwavering belief in his best friend his entire life. The fact that Sora was never willing to give is the reason Riku's still standing today. He knows better than anyone that what Sora's Sora's more powerful than anyone here. It may be true that part of his strength comes that strength thanks to the kindness he extends He is the reason he has so many friends, that with others. With the help of Riku's words, and Kairi's on a journey to piece himself back together to save his friends. And here's where I want to let everyone in A lot of people clown on this aspect of Kingdom Oh, none of it makes any sense, where's the why can't we return to the simple days of And you know, there's a part of my brain that's A lot of KH dialogue is pretty clumsy, and wants to with little to no consideration for It's a rocky road, one that probably wasn't That is... true... but... I THINK THIS SHIT IS FUCKING AWESOME! YOU AND YOUR FRIENDS ARE KILLED BY LOREAL-NORT HERE'S A SOLUTION: PIECE YOUR SHATTERED FORM YOUR FRIENDS HEARTS TO THE UNDERWORLD, FUCKING NO, WE NEVER LOST THAT FIGHT LIKE YOU HAVE THIS SHIT IS SO COOL, I DON'T EVEN CARE ANYMORE! THIS IS WHAT KINGDOM HEARTS IS ALL ABOUT BABY! *ahem* Yeah, so I like this part of the game quite The Final World is as picturesque and dreamlike turns out are one and the same. This do-over launches us into the next best keyblades of the fallen wielders from Union with their displayed usernames, using the now been immortalized in KH canon. These players became the weights that tipped reason the keyblade war was able to happen. Moments like this are what make video games Yen Sid finally gets up out of his chair and member of the Organization, teaming up with a true battle royale. Whenever you defeat an organization member, moments. The first couple battles are nothing groundbreaking. Sora makes peace with Marluxia and Larxene, Dark Riku, who is revealed to be a past version by the current Riku Replica, who by the way flew out of Riku into Riku in order to defeat I love Kingdom Hearts. I don't think anything will ever match the Xehanort, Vanitas, Saix, and Xion. The BBS trio reuniting again, confirming a all along. Watching these goofs finally reunite, tears get choked up every time I see it. These three have been through hell. Finally, they're together again. Safe. Happy. Great as this was, though, nothing could have The Sea Salt trio, as per usual, broke me. I was in shambles during this whole segment. I was angry watching Xemnas beat on Axel, But when Xion goes for the swing, and Sora her name. Finally, they remember her, finally she has the day, and you BEAT THE LIVING MOONLIGHT SO. MUCH. PAIN. TO THE TUNE OF HEARTS AS ONE, BY SHOTARO SHIMA, SORA TOGETHER TO CRAFT ONE OF THE MOST EMOTIONALLY Roxas absolutely shreds through Saix, which easy. They wanted Roxas to let it all out, and I Tears were flowing down my face once Xion Like them, I couldn't hold it in anymore. I don't think I realized just how special This was everything I wanted to see, my beautiful It just doesn't stop, either. No room to breathe, this is the keyblade war, So you're thrown straight into the fan dubbed Xemnas, Young Xehanort, and Master Xehanort Master Xehanort watches from on high, throwing up on you. On Critical Mode, this fight is pure madness, bosses all at the same time. Their endings are so perfect. Young Xehanort flips his middle finger at True to his nature, he goes out like the gremlin Xemnas, in his final moments, seems to genuinely He took his life for granted, took those around His first emotion at the end of everything: Ansem's parting words might be the most satisfying by proxy, to move on from him. He may have started everything, but this is Forza Finale, by Yasunori Nishiki, is a banger, one beautiful rendition. I've been highlighting who made these tracks were involved in the making of this game. Instead of Yoko handling most of the soundtrack composers from all walks remixing her works, of the series' past. Unfortunately, Kairi gets fridged again, and In one last ditch attempt to stop him, Xehanort him back to Scala ad Caelum, where he trained We're ending his story where it all began, our side. Couldn't have it any other way. The replicas that confront you are really Each of them resemble a member of the New clone. Finally, he has achieved the ultimate power, army of clones at his beck and call. He continues to serve as Sora's antithesis, to his whim, warping the ground beneath them. It is the perfect end game spectacle I was all over the place, Xehanort can choke slam the absolute madmen. It ends in the skies above, Kingdom Hearts Destati plays one last time; chills run down Xehanort wields the key blade, warping through him to take it back while trapped in Rage It's everything I ever could have expected Goofy at your side, you deliver the final Trinity. Dare I say it? Kino. True Kino. I'll be the first to admit that, as much as game: it is still Kingdom Hearts, which means Dark Domination is an alright song, but it's Takeharu Ishimoto put in some fantastic work He gave most of the bosses a sense of spectacle, But he really shouldn't have been tasked with gone to Yoko. It was completely unnecessary to shaft Kairi hate that they did that. She gets a great playable segment in Re Mind, in the main game. I think it's criminal that Edge of Existence ad Caelum, considering it's one of the few one of her best area themes ever. The &quot;platforming puzzles&quot; they have in the weird? And imply they probably wanted to do more It sucks we didn't get to see more of the that we didn't get a final Sephiroth battle. There are a lot of little things I wish were me. But when I look at what KH3 delivers on, this I was eight years old, all of those thoughts It might not have been literally everything it was enough. More than enough. -- My favorite scene, the one that represents near the end. When every character is on Destiny Islands. They're tossing Donald's shield around, making This might sound odd... but this scene made They were tears of joy, but I still cried This scene represents the culmination of twenty the end of my childhood. I was 21 years old when I first saw this. Only a month into the legal drinking age, an actual adult. I had just moved out of my dad's house, I running my own life. It was... a bit terrifying, one of the biggest KH3, like the entries before it, felt like After all, it's a game about leaving your Sora has come a long way, defeated many a in the face of an unknown future. Everyone around him is telling him that he tell him how to get it. He has to figure that out on his own. It's a lot of pressure to put on a young boy, him figure out the answer. Given how vague the explanation is for the as a metaphor for the anxiety of growing up. The older you get, the more people expect on your own, and come to your own conclusions It can be hard not to break under all that Xehanort plays the antagonistic role quite Once upon a time, he was in a similar position. Poised to become a Keyblade Master, blessed Islands. How was he going to defeat the Darkness and He was confronted by many of the same questions, He abandoned Eraqus, poured over the ancient and through his isolation, he came to the core. Only he could fix it, by enacting the Keyblade Their conversation at the end of the game Xehanort has lost all faith. He's scorched the earth in pursuit of his saving. He truly does believe that Darkness is the capable of setting things straight. Sora comes to a different conclusion. Maybe the world is broken, maybe Darkness But, even if that's the case, Sora knows that entire world. No person deserves to hold that much power. And besides: no one is ever truly lost. It's here where Xehanort, having been bested keyblade to Sora, entrusting the future of In this moment, Sora's ready to strike out Despite the warnings from everyone around the girl he loves, losing himself in the process. No one knows what the future will hold for doing, perhaps not even himself... but even This was a formative moment for me. Playing this game was... tough, sometimes. I got to visit my childhood again, hang out heartless with Buzz and Woody. But with each hour I sunk, each world completed, behind once and for all. At that point, I'd need to have my own answers. But hey, if Sora was able to do it, why can't Yeah, that's dumb, that's really cheesy, but with Kingdom Hearts. Stupid as it sounds, the series practically It was inevitable that reaching the end of I think maybe it's possible that my connection to properly express. It's taken me so long to write this script, with how it turned out. It is difficult to describe what the heart I've discussed many of the reasons why I'm It's insane, colorful, funny, whimsical, nostalgic, It's... everything, really, but there's one that I think it nails more than anything else. It's simple, really: Kingdom Hearts is fun. I mean that in every sense of the word. It's a fun memento of your childhood. It's fun to piece together the crazy lore. It's fun to run around on the back of Wreck This series is fun incarnate, I almost always been the most fun I've ever had playing any It brought me back to a simpler time. I'm living out a new chapter of my life now. Twenty five years old, still paying my bills, It's been a struggle, especially recently, Hearts to make me smile again. No matter the game, Tetsuya Nomura and his which transport you back to your childhood. I don't know where I'd be without this stupid I hope it keeps going. I hope it eventually shows us what's in that I hope I can theorize about it for the rest I hope it keeps going with this absurd unreality I'll be on the ride until my dying breath. Kingdom Hearts has changed alongside all of It had growing pains, shifted its approach, But no matter how much it's evolved, no matter It's comforting to know that it hasn't lost