Today is Bella's birthday, You see, well we can generally expect to live to about 80, Today however, so whilst it might seem a little silly we've got a lot to celebrate. see if you can spot the bronze silver and and if you want to make please consider subscribing. including a LEGO robot cat, and Bella's very own theme song, If you've ever owned a cat, world's most expensive and extravagant gift, in the box it came in. I'm gonna try and outsmart Bella by But will she like it? she proceeded to completely ignore Oh Bella! Hopefully Bella will like present number two, what it is, And unlike most cats, unless of course she chooses to But Bella's reaction was the absolute I'm making biscuits, Oh won't you make biscuits with me? I'm making biscuits, Yeah that was a weird nine seconds. so I think Bella's earnt And if you listen closely, that's the purr of approval. I found Ralph asleep on it, Present three is a lot more buuuuut once again, Bella will even use it. That's right! I've seen hundreds of videos online There seems to be a curious phenomenon where and I was hoping Bella would do the same. I mean she's not terrified of it, especially after I fed her treats She even went as far to give Then I had an idea. Maybe feeling safe and I'm gonna try and we'll check Anyway talking of robots, Yup, it's like the perfect set for this channel, I think she likes it already. and the end product surprisingly charming. he's got this colour and distance sensor which Stuff like moving his tail, and even responding to being stroked. it comes with this, Hold it in front of the sensor and... Needless to say, so let's just skip to present number five. Bella wears a donut around her neck. she has some really sensitive skin issues The donut is a temporary solution to stop that, although she's been in it for a very long time So in the meantime, donut designs for the next present, an orange, an avocado, And that leads us straight into the next present, giving Bella the perfect First I want to get some shots and the footage did not disappoint. like Bella's just floating in the air. her tail around her body as she never realised just how fluffy her belly is! like this with all her paws together, just look at all those jellybeans! and this is officially too much, Ok I'm getting carried away, funny expressions on some cards, They turned out alright, perpetually grumpy eyes really lend And for the final photoshoot, Bella's favourite toy. You see Bella used to have this exact toy, and it was her absolutely favourite. and life has never been the same. like them anyway near as much. I've finally managed to track down the Aannnd she loves it. but look at her go! Is that your favourite one Bella? tearing through a paper backdrop, gonna make that happen. and Bella had so much fun. and when I stopped, so we played some more. Ok present eight requires some context. they replaced me with a cat, Coco. and the castle considerable more worn, Marley. He's honestly the most majestic Anyway, they thought they'd call to Coco was in her window box catio, and after a big stretch seemed very interested And Marley was making biscuits. playing, but slows down and stops] For present nine, and she asked for a PS1,000 in cash. this is prop money, real PS1000 to Next Chapter Animal Rescue. Now talking of round things this penultimate present is a CD. a few years ago I wrote Ralph and Bella sort of got I think she deserves one of her own though, I've written one. they go, Bella la la la la, Bella la la, I know, but before the world premiere, it's time for an extra special bonus present, I invited all of you to send Bella birthday cards, and boy did you deliver. letters, and drawings, So this is most of the stuff that was sent in, there's quite a lot, spent three days reading every single one, on the walls are mostly letters, on the shelf we've got birthday cards, the windowsill and this table, It was incredibly heart-warming, kindness and thoughtfulness. but this made me realise just how loved Bella is, Ok, I won't keep you waiting any longer, [music plays] Bella la la la la, Bella la la. What d'you think Bella? So did Bella ever ride the robot vacuum cleaner? Well let me show, for their charity:water donations. Oscar Ross Smith, Aya Nobel, Matty Sheppard and family, Adam and Peachcroft Christian Centre, The Caniglia Family, Amada Oh and Nachi Del Sol, Addie and Thomas, Noelle, Will, and Martin the cat, Kamen, Lily and Emma, Michael Witherspoon and his Kate Hughes, Bridge, Luke Lawless, Oliver, Louis, Iosaf, Maria and Teddy Flynn, Luke &amp; Paul Kaper in honor Thank you so much!