- This video is sponsored by SimpliSafe. There is no safe like SimpliSafe. Can your hobbies make you more hot? Can they make you less hot? Recently, an organization 840 men and women asking them a series what the most and least And today we're gonna go through it. We're gonna look at the We're gonna look at the And let me warn you now guys, some of these hobbies on this And some of these hobbies on Number 10 least attractive hobby that a man can have according to women is makeup. I mean, yeah, okay, what's Ooh, dude, I am all about blockchain. Like the idea behind it, I'm into it. Dude, decentralized stuff. Keep people from taking I'm all about it, but it's not my hobby. It's like one of those and it's a good job, But if you are like a sous chef and then you're like, oh, it's kind of like, all right, I can see how that's unattractive. Crypto, fine. Self-Identifying Not very attractive. Again, not up to me. This Number eight, cigars. Cigars as a hobby. I get it. If you're just like smoking black and milds, constantly of your window 100%, that's super weird. This is an easy thing to Are you guys familiar with the It's the ease of which you do things. So you can have an outfit and if you look like you're then you don't look cool. But you can take that same outfit and put it in a guy and he's got sprezzatura. It's like chillness and If you look natural smoking a Oke, then you're Arnold And I don't care who tells me different. The Governator looks I smoke my stogie anywhere But as a hobby, like your Mm, that's accurate. Don't smoke anything. Life's hard enough. Alright, number seven, clubbing. Clubbing. Eight. A hobby. Dude, clubbing is a lifestyle dude. I don't necessarily know and dancing is a very Girls love dancing and girls love a guy who But again, I think these that first date you're sitting restaurant, you're and it's like, so what are you into? If off the bat some dude I picture Jersey Shore type guy. You know a guy who's like priorities straight. I like clubbing, but that's to clubs and dancing, like if this were dancing, I think it would be much more attractive. So what do you like to do? I like dancing. That's something to think about. I like clubbing. Ooh. It doesn't have the same ring Number six, marijuana as a hobby. Marijuana is my hobby. What It could potentially enhance your hobbies. Going to a movie, smoking a You know, like it used to be and allowed you to be sort But now that it's legal, It's like being into drinking. And so like if you were Oh, I like drinking. It's like, yo, okay, Again to each their own. But as a hobby, just my opinion. And 840 women, the number that a man can have according to women is Funko the first brand name on the list? Collecting little things with big heads is the number five least as a hobby according to women. Surprised that it's above marijuana. I'm surprised it's above cigars. I'm surprised it's above makeup. I wonder if this one is that it suggests that you like. Funko suggests I like that I have created an to show people who come to my house how much I like that stuff. And while I'm not one how a woman walking into your house and seeing your wall of Walter White dolls might be like, I don't know if of my kids dude. But like anything in moderation I have little toys so there's like Hot Wheels here. There's a tiny little Paul Walker above a door frame watching There's a Tekume Fujiwara If you ever come, I'm taking everything. Don't let this happen to you. I'm excited to announce a safest sponsor. SimpliSafe Home Security. For a limited time, we've to bring you an exclusive home security system. The problem with old school systems is that they only trigger after time to grab valuables But with simply safe, active crime can be stopped before it happens. Monitoring agents react in real time to suspicious individuals They can see and speak to them. Trigger alarms and spotlights before the break in happens. Hey, get the hell outta AI Tech can identify familiar faces, so no annoying false alarms. Active Guard integrates with including smart locks, We're talking two walls You can arm and disarm the system. View camera feeds and completely control anytime, anywhere. SimpliSafe doesn't require and monitoring plans are affordable. Starting at around a dollar You can install yourself or you can get it It was ranked in the best by US News and World Report and recognized for top and USA today And Speed discount on a new system. Save 60% on your SimpliSafe up for a select professional And get your first month free, free visit simplisafe.com/speed There is no safe, like simply safe. Number four, arguing online. Again, dude, what are you About what? Anything. This is a big thing now the debate thing. Tell him to debate me. You'll never debate me. That is the nerdiest And I did speech and It could be argued that this Again, I like Reddit. I think Reddit is one of the One of the few bastions of what I think the internet should But my hobby is not arguing I'm not damning the things I will admit that I did when we uploaded our first few videos, argued with a couple guys. I don't know if I argued with 'em. I, you know, that's how guys who argue online probably think too. It's like I'm not arguing. That's what a lawyer does. That's not a hobby though. That's a job. He's getting paid for it Yeah, that seems like a number four. Makes me really excited All right, number three, poor being poor. Oh, but Jesse didn't wanna write it. We might get demonetized if That's what they do on TikTok. Alright, Korn, dude, if And if that is your hobby and just like right out of what I'm about, kudos to you for bravery. Much better to just come and be about it than to bury it. This one's real tricky, It's your hobby. You know, dude don't goon, don't goon. I'm too old for that, right? Dude, as a hobby, I think in general, if that's your hobby, I don't Number three least attractive sort of number two. Gambling. No surprise here. This is one of the ones that list and I asked Ri if it was accurate and she was like, well I'm just trying to put myself who took the survey and I think, oh yeah, that would be unattractive Ugh babe. Babe, let me hold four grand. Like let me hold another 4K, babe. I could totally see as if you're looking to to build an empire together, how gambling is a, a hobby Like it's gonna take a lot You know what I mean? Like gambling. You could do it in a hand, you could put it all on Well hey, remember how we've Yeah, we're not doing that no more. But if you let me hold 4K, And then some. Not surprising. Alright, we are now at attractive hobby that a man I really don't have any idea what it is. Heroin, get a little sip of coffee. I hope it's not caffeine. The number one least attractive hobby that a man can have according to women is manosphere. Huh? Is that like guys on the internet, stop standing like a nerd. Don't be a balance broke six pack, you're gonna have a hard time. I mean, what do I have to say about this? 98% of our audience is male And I do acknowledge that and hardships that young And I don't know if they amount of attention that but like I think that like and is sort of a perverse, nerdy way of handling that stuff. So I don't know, one of the and more and more I wanna with you guys and help you in ways that like either did or didn't have people to help me navigate those So yeah, luckily they are attracted Guys, we are here. I'm not just telling you I'm giving you some stuff that might attract the opposite sex. All right, number five, most attractive hobby a to women is woodworking. Dude, this is like, again, they were, everyone was given a list and they had to be like, okay, yeah, that would be attractive Like of course woodwork Wood, a super attractive thing. Nick Offerman woodworks number four, cooking. I totally get this. It's to feed your mate, to Dude, cooking is so attractive. I just read two Anthony Bourdain Andy Morain is so known The bear. Ah, girls love the bear. We're all buying expensive white T-shirts 'cause of this guy Maddie Matheson, not a traditionally attractive man, but he's got zady status because the Moha knows how to cook. This one makes sense. If It's at number four. Makes Number three, most attractive playing instruments. My jealousies bubbling up a little bit. I think this is a best case And quite honestly, I'm above playing instruments. I think when someone sees, they're thinking John this guy's gonna doodle on a guitar and he's gonna, Dominic euphoria or something. But guess what else is an Guess what else is an I'm not saying those are but a guy who's good at A guy who's bad at the violin, maybe not being bad at an instrument to being annoying and douchey. Number two, foreign languages. It's more of a thing And I think we're getting of women imagining men that don't exist. This is the first one that you're getting fooled. If some guy's like, oh yeah, like my hubby's learning He's trying to appear like he is something that he probably is not. Sorry ladies. That guy does not exist unless you're jma, NYC, We've made it. We went through all of the non attractive ones. We've gone through a bunch We finally reached the number man can have according to women. If you do this, you're And if you don't do it, Number one most attractive hobby that a man can have according to women is looking on Facebook cars that are broken. All right? For real though, hobby that a man can have Dude, this one's free. You This one's awesome. This one's easy. Easier than woodworking. Cooking's a good one though. Playing instrument definitely We can all do it. We just gotta do it. Should I start sharing books You guys wanna start a book Is that, should we start a discord? Are we becoming best friends right now? Dude, if you can prove to by my birthday, March 19th, I'll do it, dude. I'll Let's get hotter together, dude. Let's make the boys smarter. We're bettering ourselves together. I'm surprised exercise but I encourage you to do that too. I've been running lately Let's read Cook Woodwork and let's stop marijuana. I love you.