RYAN ZUMMALLEN: Two of our right now are the Ford Mustang And, oh, look at that, we of both of them today. [MUSIC PLAYING] The Ford Mustang Mach-E GT Performance that we've And, in that time, it has we've put up against including our own Shelby GT500. But what about the In this video, we'll compare Performance on our test and we'll reveal as measured on our Up until now, the Model Y pretty definitively. But what happens when there's Let's find out. But before we get sure to click like and are the first to see all of our And if you're looking go to edmunds.com/sellmycar [MUSIC PLAYING] Now, I'm going to I grew up with Mustangs, And throughout high school And I've got to would be looking at this right yeah. The Mach-E GT starts And this one goes even higher. That's because it's a For that, you get more and an adaptive suspension That puts the final price tested, including destination. That's pretty pricey and it's right off. But for the money, you and 200 extra pound feet of is a Ford-estimated 3.5 seconds. We'll see about that. And range is an We'll see about that. Now, the funny thing is eerily similarly to the And that's no coincidence. Ford is trying to take and they're not I did not have because Tesla did not But some of you grew up as cool as this-- our Tesla Model Y Dual do not blame you one bit. When we bought it, starting And with options, and the performance gets 21-inch wheels, better that brought the final At the time, it came with an but Tesla now claims 303. So how does the My high school pride [MUSIC PLAYING] We measured the accelerating from 0 in 3.8 seconds, which is we achieved in the Now, coming to a stop the Mach-E GT Performance compared to the 108 feet Performance. When it comes to we took the Mach-E on our Edmunds EV range from our office in Santa could go on a single charge. At the end of the run, we That outperforms its When we put the through that same test, of a charge. But at that time, Tesla claimed Now, Tesla has since increased [MUSIC PLAYING] Let's see how they handle when We're on our test track The Performance version and that makes a it comes to available grip. Now, unique to the GT is You have unbridled like in the regular Mach-E, But with the GT, you And that sends more it tweaks the traction control, to the battery. The downside is it affects Your 0 to 60 will but the upside is equals more laps at the track. The other thing is the Now, that's an It can automatically that you're driving it. It gives the Mach-E and helps you carry more Now, there's a lot of question really be called a Mustang. But with power like this, a little bit unpredictable. It requires finesse. That sounds pretty The biggest difference is Whoa! There's never been a [MUSIC PLAYING] You know what's A Tesla Model Y. Whoa! This is just a completely It feels crisp, it feels quick. Most of all, it feels like by a black hole. Whoa! Feels like the by machine learning, and DevOps, that I don't understand at all. And I get that some They want to feel like Sometimes being means you're going And at these speeds, the This is a very fast road car, make it good at handling It gets a little bit and pretty easily when you're throwing it into And you can always just use but there's no track There's no unbridled extend like take this to another level. What you do get is a lot of at these speeds. It makes it feel But the one thing is that this thing Oh! Yeah. On the track, the Mach-E GT Its handling, braking, feel cohesive and sharp in Y feel messy by comparison. However, we have a big problem. We noticed that the at the tail end of Then it was having power out of certain corners. And then it was struggling to So what gives? Well, it's because ever gets five consecutive according to Ford, in order Unfortunately, that makes to drive after a trying to go fast or even just I mean, is that supposed And on top of that, a at that price with I mean, in our minds, I'd rather be in a [MUSIC PLAYING] One of the nice things when on something like want to see some you know you have an elevated And in the Mach-E There are GT logos and insignias And one of the big There's nicer leather, a on your back that helps you stay like this, and then these up here on the shoulders. These are really in the standard Mach-E, go a long way toward making you while you ride around. Now, the downside is that aren't exactly what They've got interesting textures element to it, but they just from the regular model. I understand this is a I'd rather see something Now, I do wish there were and especially for this money. It's a little bit hard to in my driving position don't go up and down very doesn't telescope in It would be nice to versatility, especially supposed to be driven hard. [MUSIC PLAYING] If you want to know more about in daily usability works check out the video that ago where he compared and the standard Model He did a great job materials, interior the available space And that video can be because where the have a lot of it's not really the case to the Model Y Performance or really net you a lot of interior The seats in here are adequately but if you're going you will start to feel And also this simulated leather stuff, so it can get a Now, as far as has not been the strongest Like we said, upgrading gets you 21-inch tires. And if you're going over in the road, it can And going over actual I'm not kidding. Getting the 21-inch wheels The Model Y also omits some very through the body panels in here. Now, we've had this and so that's to be expected but these noises were and they've only gotten The Mach-E GT is you will feel some but compared to the is just more balanced, more [MUSIC PLAYING] Tesla has been known but their ambition result in real world usability. Now, everybody has about full self-driving but here are the facts. Over a year since we shelled full self-driving And despite its name and autopilot requires the with both hands on the system just does Of course, one of the is this giant screen and However, over the course Y for over a year that compared with competing it's pretty distracting to use. There are voice can use to reduce you're on the road, but they're On top of that, the and in the city that's fine. But if you're out in the middle you're at a loss and your maps Now, there's so much cool The graphics look awesome. There's really interesting data in there. There's games. There's music. There's fart mode. We don't need to [FART] The big undeniable is that it's part of Tesla's network. Almost a decade into Tesla's I think the network is the that the company has pulled It's really easy to locate plug in, get charged, And it honestly boggles my mind struggling to catch up or even a competing network. In a world that will that's an astonishing advantage. In the Mach-E, Ford pretty much And, yes, I said copies. You control most of the car's although there are a few First of all, we just find and easier to locate And you get a real, How about that? That helps to make while you're driving. One more thing is physical buttons for of hiding them all on the bottom of the screen. The Mach-E has wireless Apple Auto. Now, those systems in any Tesla, wireless or not. That's a big misstep. We really appreciate voice controls, and quick And, in general, we prefer over the native Ford, isn't nearly when it comes to but this car comes which is Ford's new That combines adaptive with automatic lane centering. And it adds extra layers of make it feel seamless when For that reason, we would above Tesla's autopilot. So charging. The Mach-E GT gets charger as the standard Mach-E. station, Ford says it in about 40 minutes. The Model Y does it faster network. Now, Ford says it has network in the country, Ford doesn't have They're counting partnerships Electrify America, and others. Now, those are easy throws in some complimentary assistance, but it's to look for different kinds of ones. So to put a wrap on we don't like to make a habit consistently fails to meet but Tesla sure pulled off the We think the ease of is a big win for buyers. [MUSIC PLAYING] Tesla always said that they that other automakers and that they welcomed Well, now they've got some. Driving the Mustang Mach-E feels It's a blast to And it's braking, are superior to that of However, the Mustang Mach-E five second rule in history. Deliberately holding in a Mustang GT, let is super frustrating. Tesla doesn't ask you to do doesn't let up. In the end, that's And for that reason, the is our choice in this But if it were up to you, Let us know by leaving and don't forget to Finally, do you want to about the performance in and how they compare? Click the link in the [MUSIC PLAYING]