There are errors in the Book of Mormon that the one owned by Joseph's family. Americans do not originate from the Middle There are things in the Book of Mormon that in the Americas. For example: horses, chariots, There is no archeological evidence for the we have evidence from smaller groups of people Book of Mormon names and places are strikingly places of the region where Joseph Smith lived. View of the Hebrews, a book published in Joseph similar to The First Book of Napoleon published in King James style language for New York The original 1830 text of The Book of Mormon was changed over time as Joseph's ideas have been made to the book. accounts given by Joseph at different times, God or Christ. claimed the Book of Abraham was translated with Abraham or anything contained in the meant "get inspiration from". Joseph also Joseph married at least 34 women, many without and Covenants and 11 of whom were already 10 of Joseph's wives were teenagers, some 19th century standards. Joseph also married Joseph used a variety of methods to coerce of eternal life, threats of damnation, and threat of an angel with a flaming sword. isn't doctrinal despite teachings by numerous that it was essential for exaltation. is "to multiply and replenish the earth". wives, or he wasn't adhering to scriptural Joseph married Fanny Alger years before he on polygamy. conference and as part of the temple endowment the church. also disavowed. This doctrine factored into Massacre, where church leaders murdered over Black people weren't allowed to hold the to a few people, but from Brigham Young to to hold it. to suppress bizarre and embarrassing church proven to be fake. Mark Hofman, the forger, were known to be forgeries, church leaders Joseph Smith translated plates called the record of a descendant of Ham from the Old be a hoax. members say that they "know" their church as Islam, say they "know through the power that led to the mass suicide of the Heaven's Joseph sent Oliver and Hiram to sell the copyright received a revelation to do it. They failed conclude that not all revelations are from The church teaches that you should bear your classic psychological tactic. of things that have nothing to do with the Joseph and Oliver didn't tell people about supposedly receiving it and changed earlier Joseph was hired to use the seer stone to taken to court on charges of fraud. and the Occult, practicing animal sacrifice, and talismans. worldview", which included seeing things plates. who changed religions at least 10 times. Even self-proclaimed prophet, James Strang. Strang to translate them. Martin Harris also said book as he had for The Book of Mormon. He and talked with him. spiritual eyes, and said his impressions were feelings. "second sight" and that it was no different The witnesses did not sign their own signatures who was the scribe. for Martin Harris, were related by blood or Joseph had many people sign an affidavit saying Some of those who signed it were also practicing Joseph didn't even use the Gold Plates to re-translate the missing 116 pages, taken validity as a translator. seven weeks after his Masonic initiation. The ceremony in numerous ways. yet blood oaths and other disturbing elements after those elements were removed from the Joseph Smith made a number of prophecies that 18, this would disqualify him as a prophet. do we explain the 14 other Hominin species before Adam? flood 4,500 years ago. consumption show that there was insufficient species found on the planet, let alone the Science also discredits the idea of the Tower Whale, people turning into salt, and carrying In contrast to Jesus Christ, the Old Testament racism. faith-promoting from its history and been In Kirtland, Joseph created an illegal bank Once his fraud was discovered, he fled to his debts. its finances since 1959. Creek Mall, more than it spent on humanitarian The early church taught that tithing was 10% it is 10% of your income, even if you can't The church's name has changed a few times, called &quot;The Church of the Latter-Day Saints.&quot; lead the church astray, despite obvious mistakes Church leaders such as Boyd K. Packer have truth if it isn't faith-promoting. In 1993, for publishing their scholarly research on said you shouldn't criticize church leaders,