You're watching FreeSchool! Our Solar System Have you ever looked up into the sky and wondered the clouds, and farther than the moon, a whole Let's imagine for a moment that we can leave that surrounds it. We call it the solar system because everything means something to do with the sun. The sun you can see in the night sky - just many times far away from the earth; almost 93 million even though it's the biggest object in the than 99 percent of the mass in the solar system. comets, and everything else in the solar system quarter of a percent of it. The sun is so big that it's more than 100 a giant jar you could fit more than one million More than that, the sun is what holds the is what keeps the earth and all the other off into space. The sun is also what allows us to live on heat. There would be no light. Plants could could survive. The sun gives us heat and light ball of gas, mostly hydrogen and helium, and Let's leave the sun now to explore the planets. As we move away from the sun, the first planet smallest planet in the solar system, much you can see from earth using nothing but your planet. It looks more like a bright star, horizon near sunrise and sunset. Mercury is a lot like our moon. It's small It has no moon of its own, and no air to breathe. since temperatures are boiling hot in the interesting about mercury is that it is the takes 88 days. Next is Venus, the second planet. Some people planets are very close in size and gravity, First of all, it is very hot. Venus is the as close to the sun as mercury, but its thick the heat and stay warmer than its neighbor. you could breathe. It is mostly made of carbon Venus might not be fun to visit, but it is object in the night sky - the only thing brighter or a sunset and suddenly notice what looks looking at Venus. After Venus comes Earth, the third planet Earth, because that's the planet where we planet,' because it's not too hot, and not Earth is the only planet to have living things. Let's leave earth again for a moment, though, sun. Mars is known as the 'red planet,' because gives it a reddish color. Mars is smaller mercury. It is cold and rocky, with a thin There is water ice on mars. Scientists are very interested in mars because the help of some special equipment. Rockets gain more information about the planet. Right the surface of mars, sending information back Mars is the first planet we've visited today two, although they are not big and round like Scientists think they may be captured asteroids. that is between mars and jupiter. An asteroid objects, orbiting the sun. Jupiter comes next, the fifth planet in the and is something called a 'gas giant.' It made mostly of gasses. Jupiter is so big that just to stretch across its middle. Jupiter is also the third brightest object are brighter. You can usually find Jupiter is away from the sun and not towards it. Jupiter has at least 67 moons that circle only about as big as a mountain, or smaller. two of them are about the same size as the is the largest moon in the solar system. Some in your backyard with a telescope. People cannot land on Jupiter because it is Even if there was somewhere to land, Jupiter than even the strongest storms on earth. One earth. We call it the great red spot because going on for at least 200 years! After Jupiter comes Saturn, another gas giant. Although they look solid from a distance, small ice particle, as well as rocks and dust. Saturn also has more than sixty moons orbiting and many smaller. Something interesting about Saturn is that dense. That means that if you could find a would float instead of sink! Saturn is the farthest planet that can be After saturn comes uranus, the seventh planet but it is much smaller than Saturn and Jupiter. it is tilted so much that it actually spins they are much smaller than saturn's, and 27 made of methane, which give it its lovely Very similar to uranus is Neptune, the eighth giant, and like uranus it has methane in its is a darker blue than uranus and scientists and 14 moons that we know about. Because neptune is so far out in space, it the sun. Remember Mercury, that only takes takes over 164 YEARS to finish an orbit around the same place it is now was before the American or cars had been invented! Neptune has the Now, you may think that I've forgotten someone was listed as the ninth planet in the solar realized how small it is. It is much smaller and even smaller than many other moons. Plus, planet-like objects in space near pluto. Some after 76 years being listed as a planet, Pluto it was something that was like a planet, but in the solar system, and possibly many, many That leaves us with 8 official planets in Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. I hope you enjoyed exploring the solar system