Who are they? They're new. They moved here from Seattle. I tried to look them up on social media, but I didn't find anything. They're siblings. They never talk to anyone Anyway, look at this cute bag I found. Hello. Chelsea. Hey. Turn on the news immediately. What's... Breaking news. 15-year-old schoolgirl Lena was found dead in the city of Los Angeles. There were traces of bites LAPD is currently this devastating case of murder. The government warns citizens in the area to stay away especially at night time. We will keep you updated with the emerging details Boo. Take care of yourself. You think I'd be living Nah, it's just an ordinary apartment I was just an ordinary student. But one day, I was walking home from school and a group of teenagers attacked me. I was in a near-death state Kate, she knew I wasn't gonna make it, so she bit my neck, giving me the gift of being a vampire. All the bruises on my body disappeared, except for this scar, reminding me forever of that day. Since then, we've become like brother and sister. I'm sorry. It's too hard for me to control myself. You have to leave. Where's Chelsea? I haven't heard from her Scared? Don't be. Today, I'm gonna destroy you It's only me who deserves to be with him. Do you know what this is? This can kill you in just five minutes. Just be quiet The poison has already entered her heart. Look at the timer. She only has ten seconds left to live. Chelsea. Chelsea. Chelsea. Chelsea! Chelsea! Chelsea! Zombie-vampires are killing Los Angeles is full of them nowadays. Gosh, I'm listening to Good morning class. Nick and I have planned A campsite where a mysterious asteroid fell to earth thousands of years ago. Sorry, nice to meet you. I'm Alan. Chelsea. I think we have astronomy together, We're going to some secret campsite Asteroid? Oh, I think someone Eternal life You have the job. Who's there? Hey, Everything's fine. You ready for today's trip? I guess so. Welcome to Star Camp, where a mysterious asteroid fell to Earth thousands of years ago. Go, Alan, grab your things and let's go. Shouldn't we explore? Let's do it. I think it's getting late, Alan. We should probably go back. I'm here for you. Again? Vampires are not always evil Pack your things, Alan. Alan! Stop! Don't touch me, you murderer. He's right. You're an animal, Chelsea. You were created to kill, not to have a relationship Do you really think you can scare me? Get lost, Yesterday, an unknown animal She'll be back to school very soon. Stop! This is serious. Not something, And you're acting like nothing is wrong. I saw Lena and she's not fine. She was close to death. See Alan? She's fine. It all started two years ago. When Nick found Then I became a vampire. Nick began to kill, turning all his classmates I immediately suspected One day, I was just in the school bathroom when the door suddenly opened But I woke up in the forest My eyes were red I cried so much Then, I looked at myself in the mirror I was one of them. But, why did you attack Lena? I've always been different from them. When you told me that the teacher I realized that our teacher I went to your house at night. I was watching you and gave you a sign. For a long time, but it was all useless. The trip still happened. That night in the camp, I ran to her tent and saw covered in bites, I pushed her away I took my gem and put it on Lena's heart. Pretend like you're still hurt. They can't know that I saved you. Do you understand me? They tortured you for saving her? Not really. Alan When Nick saw us together I immediately felt his presence. According to their rules, vampires should not be They made you think that I killed Lena I wanted to tell you But they all stopped me so that I would stop spending time You'll still be mine, Chelsea. Chelsea, I'm so sorry. Do you know No. The day of your death. Stop! That's not all. Today is the day It's our sacrifice to our power source. The asteroid! The time has come. Stop it! Stop! Let the traitor speak. I never wanted to be like you. And I've learned Funny? For now, I can destroy all of you Chelsea, I love you! Chelsea... ...thank you. You saved my life. How did you win that? You know that podcast I was crying in bed about losing you. And then, I decided to put on your favorite podcast. The podcast episode was about mythical lore. And it said, fire destroys any curse. I took my amulet and burnt it. And a sharp red light hit me. I woke up as an ordinary person and then I realized that I could save you and all of them. You're here, Chelsea! Now, we're free! We're finally humans again. [Alan's house] [OMG Sorry, it was just a nightmare. Having class on Halloween? That's the real nightmare. Wait, we're late! [HAPPY HALLOWEEN] Hey, where's the teacher? Yeah, where is the teacher? Hey, it's Halloween. Let's ditch class and throw a party. [closed] [Ditching class? NO. [NO NO NO] [OMG] [LOOK] [OMG] [That's a clue!] [TEACHER] [OMG] [Your teacher is still alive. Help her now, [WATCH THE VIDEO] [TEACHER!] [GO!] [OMG NO] [Michelle] Follow me! [NEW MESSAGE] [OOOPS!] [GO! GO! GO!] [OMG] [GO!] [WHO IS NEXT?] [Evil teacher] [SHE IS A [DID YOU LEARN THE LESSON?] [DON'T SKIP CLASS] Oh, sorry. It was just a nightmare. It's Halloween. Let's ditch class and throw a party. No, no, no, no, no. Again? [OMG] Wait, wasn't our teacher a student in our school before? Yeah, he's only a couple years older than us and he's already a teacher. It's unusual. [NEW TEACHER] Look at his case. It's pink. Look! We need to find information about Lena. Look! Mr. Nick, I have some questions about the homework. Sure, let me help. Oh, I got it now! You're such a great teacher. Bye! What'd you find? You know where Mr. Nick lives? I was supposed to bring my homework to him. He gave me a note with his address on it. [NO NO NO] Lena? What did he do to you? I'll help you, let's go! Alan, he knows you're here! You better run while you can! Chelsea! No! He found her! Now she can't escape! Hide! How did this happen? Don't worry! I'll save us! Everything will be fine! Do you have a plan? Tonight in our kingdom will be a doll ball. I will untie your hands and the gentleman will pick up festive costumes for you. It will be so much fun! Run! I didn't want it to turn out like this. I'm sorry and befree you. Why would you do this to us? When I was a schoolboy like you, I had an unusual hobby. Playing with dolls. I never thought my love for them could cause such negativity among my classmates. [PANSY] One day coming home, I saw that the shelf with my dolls was empty and there was a note on it saying, come attend the funeral in the backyard. I decided to disappear. I decided to become a teacher to inspire positivity to a new generation of students. Then I saw you, Chelsea, you look so much like my favorite doll from my childhood. I convinced my sister, Lena, to help me with this kidnapping plan. Because I knew you were great people. I will always help those who are in trouble. I didn't want to harm you. I just wanted to play with you. Today, your lesson in school was about compassion. And now, I understand why. Your classmates weren't compassionate to you. But you taught us better. We will break the cycle. I'll play with you. The heaviest rain is expected in a way Stay at home. Michelle? What's going on? Do I need to tell your parents? Breaking news! 16 year old student Michelle Park has been declared missing. It all began with the mysterious 911 call. It provided precise details about the crime scene and the girl's belongings. Police are currently investigating. If you or your loved ones have any information please contact the police or reach out to our newsroom directly. Take care. Michelle? [DO NOT OPEN] Hi, It's Michelle and if you're reading this book it means I am most likely not here anymore. Around ten months ago I started getting threatening messages on my phone. All this time I tried to find those who were doing this to me. Each person seemed like a suspect to me, but there's one thing I know for sure, it is one of them. [NO NO] No, no, no, no, no, no. I need to think about something else. [THE SAME HAIRPIN?] [NO NO NO] Hey! Hey! Have you heard? Yeah. it's just awful. I hope the police finds her safe. I'm very sorry. I understand how difficult it is for you right now, but if anyone has any information, please report to the police. Where are you? Yes, I'm just finishing my homework and I'll be free. Great, looking forward to seeing you guys! He shouldn't know anything. I get it. No, you're too suspicious. Oh, Alan, you're already here. I'll go meet the food delivery guy. No... No, no, no, no, my friends, they wouldn't do this. What are you doing? We were just... Just what? Did you kidnap Michelle and send her threats? You think I wouldn't find out? Are you insane? What's wrong with you? Today is the fifth anniversary of our friendship. We were just preparing a surprise for you. You three, you happy, go-lucky, problem-free, annoying best friends. I always hated your friendship. All so perfect and happy, always laughing and joking in your own world, not paying any attention to those around you. Is this the police? Not paying any attention to me. I couldn't stand to see my boyfriend happy with anyone else! So I decided to stage my kidnapping, blaming you guys and destroying your friendship! You'll tell that to the police. I'm so glad that we're real best friends What you did was inexcusable, but you're still my girlfriend. If you promise to stop being jealous, I promise to include you in our friendship. I promise. I love you. I love all of you. Thank you. Are you okay, Chelsea? Did he do anything to you? We need to get her to a doctor. Yeah, he must have hurt her. She's in shock. I gave her a sedative and she'll calm down soon. Yes, a frick attacked her. Yeah, he was so creepy. I'm so nervous about Chelsea. It was so scary. [DANGER TOXIC] I'm feeling better now. Thanks. [DANGER TOXIC] Wanna have lunch? Nick, why don't you have lunch with your girlfriend Kate? She's my best friend. I'm sure she wouldn't want us to be alone together. I think you forgot this. It smells like something died. Don't flirt with my boyfriend. Sorry, you know how she is. [WHAT?] But what? What did I do? I know you wanna steal my boyfriend, Nick. I saw everything. [Best Friends] [Lena] Hello. Chelsea, come to the hospital, quick. What happened? Someone attacked Kate. She's barely alive. KAAATE! Kate... Kate! You know way too much. [DANGER TOXIC] You think you can outsmart me, Chelsea? I saw you with Alan. I know you've been planning something. You really think I didn't see you steal my secret notes the other day at the hospital? I have been studying this A-virus strain for years. It mutates cells in the human body, giving the infected the animal instinct to attack and eat others. Why would I spread such a dangerous disease? I've created this virus to make the world all mine. I selected three of my favourite biology students to be the first carriers of the A-virus. And it worked all according to plan. My first zombies were born! If only stupid Alan hadn't decided to run away. Kate and Nick. Learned to transform into humans Thankfully Alan never could. You know way too much. But we can fix that. She's barely alive. Wait, did we- Duh! What happened to your lip? Wait! We're late! Oh my gosh! He watched my story! Do you think he likes me? Chelsea? Alan?.. What did you say? [ALAN A-SCHOOL..] [NO RESULTS FOUND] He was real, right? Why can't I remember him? I know you... But I can't remember how. Yes. They erased your memory. When I saved you from Kate and told you to run, the door slammed shut. Nick appeared... They both attacked... I woke up in the medical cabinet bathroom tied up with a gag in my mouth. I saw Kate preparing a victim's makeup and Nick planning something evil with the doctor. Then I woke up and heard the horrifying truth. We are zombies and the dangerous A-virus in our veins was created by our school doctor to take over the world. After you learned the truth the doctor injected a dangerous substance into your IV. When you lost consciousness, Nick carried you out of the room. I remember everything. Chelsea, all these years my heart was dead, but you're the only one who made it beat. What happened? It seems someone played a trick. You're nothing but a failed experiment, Alan! And to think you'd run away from me. I've been wondering what your punishment should be. Death. Alan's a traitor! This will cure you from the virus Don't do this! Your plan will never work. And what are you going to do? No one can stop us now. I read your secret records and found something interesting. The doctor is using you. After you're done helping her, she'll end your lives too. Don't believe her! No! Let me go! Let go of me! Don't trust them! NOOOOOOO! This means I'll die too and we can't be together. I learned something else. Antidote for A-virus... Only true love can cure the infected from the virus. If a zombie feels true human love it becomes human again. Chelsea, I'm a human again! I love you, Alan. I love you too. We don't need to conquer the world We have our love. I never liked going to the doctor anyways. Gender reveal! It's a... [Green?] Zombie? Oops! I used the wrong food coloring! It's a boy! See? You saved the world. Breaking news! This great Dr. Debbie has broken out of prison. She's unleashed her dangerous A-virus with 126 new cases confirmed today. Again?! Click here to watch another episode of Alan's Universe.