Hello and welcome to my Lockdown 2020 L'Hermet, I'm a French graphic designer and in today's session we are going to see how to create this brochure using Affinity into your description link and once you Unzip it and then inside you will get this right away because you need to install keep the brochure clean otherwise going install them and then you can open your have noticed we have an asset folder It contains the pattern and the For now let's jump back into Affinity keyboard to reveal the whole interface so we want to make sure that there are instance we want to be in very high perfectly fine. Another thing is the this is a setting that will enable us to someone we're going to work with, a team, pictures inside your documents, so no save, your picture will be embedded into they will always be there. But if you document they will be inside a separate And this is because if I want to send to send both of the folders the first correct some typos on my document or I will only send him the brochure file as you can see here, so it's quite light portable let's say. So the next thing I'm CMYK and not RGB for screens and bleed in here, we put three millimeters for instance on this document you can this outer frame is the edge of your be everything will be cut here and this create a bleed in our Publisher document because when they will cut to this line might end up with something like this. As before exaggerated on purpose well you some messed up things happening so in on the edge of the document, go into your they cut one millimeter before or after also something here I'm showing you the and there is a purple frame here and safe area but also it's the margins you those margins are here to make sure that instance when you will put your fingers don't want to hide any important we put always, as you can see, a margin fingers or and here we have a grid as you can see, show you the grid. So for that you go to panels. So I'm going to choose my pages reopen it here and now you have two pages which are models you can apply to have your pages so we can see we have pages. You can create as many master page as you wish but you will have a number of pages that you will set. So let's set up this grid using the view guides so you remember here we have our safe margins and here I can set my margin, the the right page and the right of the spread - the inner page in the middle, the the top and bottom margins. So I've chose to put this down, it's up to you. And as fill, I'm going to see my columns a the gutter in between each column and this is it for for our grid system, to complete your grid beyond the margins command and semicolon I'm going to hide them manually myself so this is what I guides. So using my view guides guides and place them onto the page to you just go to command R, press command R, reveal your ruler and then you just press and hold, click and hold sorry, to go to view, unlock the guides and now I wherever I want. I'm going to undo that always in the position I want, because don't need to touch up guides anymore so going to do is what are the master pages cool layouts using the master page and there. So let's create a first layout. I'm and the picture frames are here and they which you are going to place your settings in the properties of each of like you can see here, right click, frame or to stretch, we are going to see that text frame right here, I'm going to now what I'm going to do is press escape, duplicate this. I hold down my option key and shift to make sure that I go going to stop somewhere here. All right subtitle. I'm going to zoom in a little baseline grid. So for that I'm going to here. And the baseline grid is a grid those lines so it will always have the simple words. So I'm going to create my to make it a little tighter and then duplicating like we did before. All right I can also hit option, command and apostrophe. This is a keyboard I setup myself, a keyboard shortcut I set up myself. tool here and preference, and now you and you go to keyboard shortcut and view and now I'm going to check where is can set up your own keyboard shortcut. So these to make sure I'm consistent and going to click on the first one here and and here image 2, here image 3 and finally image 4. Now I'm going to do the same for text 1, this one is text 2. And now this something like that. This is going to be this one is going to be our title. And pattern which you may have noticed goes So I have this pattern here and I want to our master page I'm going to press W picture frame tool, start here and extend any problem. Same here. All right. And this Now let's see how we can use it, so we're to right click on it and let's create a the page number 3 right here using OK and now what I want to do is populate now, we have layout pages that are using visible yet so I'm going to populate my use a pretty great tool that Affinity it's called Stock. This is gathering a collection of three websites pictures. They are licensed with the them and do whatever you want with those not, it's up to you, so it's really here luxury and just by dragging and create like this my layout very fast, see the author for information and several option on this frame. As you can I double click on it, this is the picture filled it the entire, the maximum, so right click on it, frame properties and maximum pixels into the frame. We can now we have all what the minimum fits the frame and we can also do the stretch, doesn't work for us. I'm going to go to continue. So another picture, stick this another picture, maybe, maybe this one going to take something like this for Okay with all our image placed now if I well, I can hide away my stock panel and going to start with the subtitle here so subtitle as you can see I'm writing my not the one I want to use, it's not big I could do is go to my text right here bigger size. I could choose to be can do, yeah sorry, I can go on like this can create a text style. So if I go here to view studio, this is where you have right here I can see there are three you have paragraph styles, profile So here we have paragraph styles and styles, so I'm going to for instance make a car, also actually what I'm going and I'm going to click on adding a style, style, even though I'm not done yet, but I I'm going to call it my style and then So right now it's gray, I could choose forth. So if I click on ok, now and if I All right let's go down there, here I text is using the style that I just created. create title, if I want to add the same and there we go. So now we have a style time-saving because instead of always style to create the same thing every just creating text styles, so it's pretty steal my already done text styles here copy the host type. And I'm going to do the my style. It's hidden so I'm going to go box a little bit, that frame, and go back set. I'm going to populate my text, same thing I'm going to steal it from here, so I can get the whole style. I don't need to not and what we can see here is we have that's appearing right here and this is text. You can also see it here at the alert and it's telling me I have one reveal it by going to view studio and click here when you see an error and overflowing here. So just to give you a your errors or everything that you want warnings and errors, you can choose document, or never see them. You can click you click on 'never' so it doesn't bother profile like I did here. So by default I using the feeder text when you go to using here, and of course it's not in any recognize, it recognized as English and what I did is I created my own profile chose to ignore some errors and once click on it for instance, if I go on it's going to bring me to where the now and what is happening is the but what I want to do is not to change master page so next time I use this see that error. So I go to the small take this box and here we have a little I'm going to click on it and select frame, not picture, as you can see doesn't but it works only for the text frame. I'm line that's appearing and that's going these two boxes are linked. I'm going to populated. So I still have an overflowing Now I'm going to remove that manually Now I'm going to place my pattern here, same shift, command, M. I could have gone directly to the file and place. Now I'm going to go to the pattern and same here - shift, command, M - light see that my pattern is very small, the compared to that. And this is because to be the whole spread so it will always same. If I click once I can see my frame can see my picture. And as you can see, if showing, so what I'm going to do is press it into my bleed and now it's showing Double click. Okay something like this... and here. All right and now my page is all set. So we can do to change to create a new layout but layout what we're going to do is use the to go back to our small page here, master this time I'm going to also duplicate it. the small master page, double click on it properties and I'm going to call it '2'. same elements. So what I will do create an entirely new layout using the these elements on many pages so let's extend them, bottom and right. All right. Now my text that. Maybe even pick this. All right and basic layout like this. I move my Now the layout is completely different small two, version two. And I could go on layouts, so once I create them I create many pages. So one smart master page can be applied to several, multiple pages so it's again a lot of time saved. So let's I'm going to take this newly created page four and five. And look at that, need to intervene to anything, so if I another page that used the same elements master page and drag and drop onto any the page, the layout composition, time-saving. And I want to show you create a new page, a new layout. We are page, after page five here, using medium master page. I'm going to hit OK. Now I'm going to select it, double click, hit W and now I'm going to insert a text place it here, like so, and then I'm going paste. And I would like to have the whole that I'm going to delete this. So now the I'm going to 'Text', 'Insert filler text', so follow a shape, how the text can follow a this. All right, now let's import here a this time I'm using this because of the going to work for this, so here in my assets folder I would like to have, to grab my PNG file picture. So what I'm going to do linked, I'm going to place them directly jpg file that I prepared earlier. Now I'm click on PNG and then open it. And I'm Okay, let's see here, perfect. Now I'm layers panel right here you can go to and what I want to do is to place my text is above this image. I would like it just select the picture and because PNG click on this one and it's going to take into account all the actual solid I'm going to choose 'tight' and already it's following the curve. But our text is would like to have some space in between. 'distance from text' and I can add some millimeters and now it's clean and we But it's possible you may not have a background or a colorful background and out the image, you could just create a we're going to do that, I'm going to tool, roughly, it doesn't have to be I'm going all over the watch and beyond with this I'm going to press W to see that. I'm going to remove the picture now I don't need it anymore, again click on curve here and this is to right click on it and choose convert path here becomes a picture frame and I going to fill the entire frame by that. Shift, command, M. I'm going to have our shape here, our image. I'm going this is my frame here, all of this here. sure I place it inside the frame and again this picture beneath my text you the picture so what I need to do is to on the frame and again wrap settings and totally fine, a little more space because choose something like 7 millimeters and it's following our path and we created custom path, so as you can see Publisher is very powerful, there are so many smart save a lot of time in your composition have like 70 pages all of a sudden it by using smart pages you can save a lot and just applying to all of your layers. that we just saw a preview of how to use them. You can save your character and paragraph styles and save a lot of time. don't have time right now to go over but the tutorials over there, they have tons how to use the whole interface. I really uncluttered, very clean, enjoyed this tutorial. You have a great