If you're a developer and you that needs to be answered, well, Stack Overflow is usually one of You post a question and other developers And for a while, it was good. Everyone loved it, and Stack Overflow for developers with questions. But recent events have cast Transforming what was a beloved corner of discontent from its own core users. Stack Overflow is a question specifically for programmers, It was founded in 2008 by And at the time Stack Overflow accessible alternatives to The platform allows any user on various programming topics. And members can vote on the content like you would do so for a wiki. If you're active, you will actually for your contributions, adding this Basically, it just makes At its core, Stack Overflow really of its users, the developers. Now, this is quite important to remember. Stack Overflow does not want to be a where you can have thousands of the same They want to actually be a questions with high quality answers. Here's an example. In Python, a common question would be. How do I import an Excel file in Python? and in a normal Q and A site like Reddit a while later, if someone someone will provide an answer. however, if you are a user and you are the 10th time that someone asks the not going to give a very good answer. so what Stack Overflow wants questions with quality answers. So in their model, someone asks, how and someone responds. And maybe someone else adds to And then. Maybe a few days later, if another user on Stack Overflow, that question would The actual person who asked the to the original question. That has really great So Stack Overflow definitely Because when you search for something that with some really great quality answers. Instead of paging through a looking for a good enough answer. And this method actually The site was really growing And for the next few years into continue to grow and prosper. Until it didn't. Now, if you didn't know, currently Stack of criticism with their new AI partnership And before we jump to the conclusion, users are hating them at the moment. There were actually a few issues There was a lot of criticism from about on the platform not being very nice. So here's an example. As I was writing my script for this looked at new questions with responses. This was the first post I came across. The question was titled, how can I string in the format of that and returns And this user who posted this The user seems to give a bit and try to create a solution. One person gives a good It's polite. This person has a reputation so not a huge reputation in but an okay average reputation. Then there's this person who says, What is the specific part that And the person who actually wrote about 134, 000 reputation points. Been on Stack Overflow for 15 years. This member is probably And look, maybe the person who actually stick to the rules or whatever, but able to give you a solid answer with It's not a very hard question to answer. the person who posted this now in the grand scheme of No, but I can see for a new user, it just gives you a bad impression. Here's another new question that And again, I literally did not This was the second question that I saw. Again, the poster here asks a Python what they're looking for in the solutions. And here's one comment. I'd also like to know why you need Again, if we look at the poster Huge reputation, also another so it isn't like new users are can say, Oh, maybe it is a troll. so if you look at the person who I wanted to see if this person is just You actually can't see that history. So when you comment on a post an answer, it is a comment. and you can't go onto a user's and see their past comments. You can only see their past questions sense why the comments are always a because you can't really track what and as I said, the developers who that bad and not really a huge deal. They're not bad people. It always happens on the internet. People can be rude. So what? But the problem is for Stack major detractor for new users. Or users who just want to ask questions. and there are many issues here. the first issue is that if nobody How would Stack Overflow grow and the second issue is that most from newer users, users who haven't You don't want to chase away your platform actually grow? So the problem with having one unique will ask a question and the moderator Which also has its own problems. Now this post, which was six years programming humor, and it was And the post complained about questions, but more critiquing it. There were a lot of comments in general This user. I'm not reading that name, but fish and said, don't dare ask a question question that is slightly related. And then you have your thread locked and they are right there. So here's an example. I Googled a common Python error. And I click on the first link on question with the same error. This question was posted 13 years And if I scroll to the actual first It was posted in 2011, 13 years ago. Next answer posted in 2011. The next answer posted in 2018. Now you can imagine if you're looking know that the library you have used very confident in these answers. You'll basically have to try it one which again can also detract to users. things started to go downhill when dissatisfaction with the platform. And from 2019, there seemed to be a few And the reasons given This was a post on the So if you did not know, meta. stackoverflow. com is a website or forum. If you have any complaints about the OG Meta platform and complain or discuss. That's why it's there. You can't post any complaints on the only for developer question and answers. actually posted on the Meta Stack It said, I'm resigning as a Stack The post continued, Stack Overflow Inc has and how to talk with the community. This has been a slow decline since where the company's actions show they with the community they have. Okay. So that's just one moderator complaining. Are there others? In 2021, we also have And this mod said, I didn't frivolously, or suddenly. A persistent pattern of corporate missteps dismissal has compelled me to re evaluate So the actual moderator dismissal here was a moderator called Monica. And in 2019, there were Monica actually questioned it. and then she was dismissed, which a lot and if you browse the top posts in this there were other moderators resigning. Here's another one. And all of these resignations They were people who have contributed And all of them cited Stack management as being an issue. Not their jobs, not their Which eventually leads us to the Or maybe not a straw. I think it was more like a pile of bricks. So we do know that things were not AI could even enter the picture. Well, now that AI is in the picture, So when AI was originally introduced, to use it to solve their developer All you had to do was go to a a question and it answers it. Unlike Stack Overflow, you don't AI also seems to be a lot more polite It will just give you an answer. And AI probably also won't close another person asked a question. So a lot of pros. And obviously I'm just joking here, of advantages when it comes to AI. And I think naturally the stack There is a blog post from And this is interesting because he or points on Stack Overflow. And one of the benefits of this is that it comes to reputation, Stack Overflow analytics, and this is what he has found. This plot actually shows the And we see it increasing for quite good for Stack Overflow. There is a drop in November, 2022. and November, 2022 is actually And basically since then, this This trend also does corroborate And interestingly, this has all but since November 2022, the decline and with this stack overfloww has Which is substantial. But during this time, a lot of least Stack Overflow was trustworthy. Because a good answer is highlighted by Whereas with AI, you can't really is correct, because AI is always so if the solution may be wrong, or AI But regardless of that, the general Overflow as much as they used to. So to combat this, in 2023, Stack they were introducing a new suite of Stack Overflow themselves, just to And they called it Overflow AI. And what this tool was supposed users to To ask questions in a And the Overflow AI would respond with previous answers from Stack Overflow. But the idea here was that this Stack Overflow environment. Now they did note that the responses draw on Stack Overflow's databases the AI would be cited and referenced They did note that on their blog post didn't really go into too much detail is quite a relatively hard task to But since it was announced in 2023, actually reached that popularity And traffic and website So, Stack Overflow was at a roadblock. It was on the decline. So, on the 6th of May, 2024, Stack The announcement said that Open Overflow in order to enhance its AI and the collaboration actually of open AI's models like those answering your programming questions. Stack Overflow, in turn, will with OpenAI's expertise. They did state that the first new set Stack Overflow and OpenAI will be So by June, 2024. And you can just imagine the backlash from their very own users, Because essentially what Stack going to take all of the answers to create and give them to OpenAI. So Stack Overflow actually posted announcing the partnership. And many, many users had issues. This thread had a lot Some users were picking This poster had an issue with attribution. IE, essentially making sure that come up with the original answers. They said one of the major selling points Most LLMs don't provide any sort getting the information from. Directly feeding stack exchange AI products sounds to me like that It says attributed, but it will it cite stack overflow in general, user, will this abide by the CC BY So just your normal content licensing had issues based on I created the which does make sense, So some users Other users actually focused on the One user said, I feel violated, I believe a lot of other If you feel the same, upvote this. Attribution is one aspect of it is the entire way how the community the content on this platform to The whole thing feels ethically Humans are meant to exploit machines Exploiting us who helped make in this way is a turning point. It makes the world for us People already started contemplating their questions, answers, comments, I was contemplating deleting I still am. Congratulations, Stack Exchange. And they were right. Users were contemplating from Stack Overflow because they a company like OpenAI have it. So this announcement clearly And to protest, a lot of users that they've posted in the past. But there was an issue because Stack user benui posted this on X a day Stack Overflow announced that they to delete my highest rated answers. I found that Stack Overflow does not let answers and many upvotes because it would So, when he couldn't delete his So instead I changed my highest Within an hour, mods had changed my account for seven days. And a lot of users have been On the same post of the announcement been read by 151, 000 people on that makes me the top 3 percent of users. I wrote those answers I am not okay with my answers being OpenAI, a company I do not like. I was banned yesterday from PSE edited back to my former writing. Now there is a bit of divide in the giving the stack overflow answer agreement and content license. Some users are saying it actually doesn't. I'm not a lawyer, so I can't comment on is just a bigger discussion happening Stack Exchange umbrella can actually Regardless, this is just not a The people commenting Essentially the product of Stack Overflow. They are the ones spending time giving And there's such a high possibility that a The other thing is, is that if Stack AI better, then why would users But to be honest, I do Stack Overflow does feel like And as a business, they But on the other side, users aren't happy, their most loyal users aren't Is this a big deal for me personally No. Most developers don't hate Stack Overflow, but in my own network, Stack Overflow you come across some sort of problem. So, oh, I have an error. I don't know. Let me check the documentation. Okay. So the documentation doesn't I'll check Stack Overflow. okay. Stack Overflow is not giving me enough. I'll ask AI. And I think the big problem for Stack very small percent of the user base. who is very loyal and keeping and giving out quality answers. but the average developer, if they realize quality answers, I think it's so easy to They don't even need to be physically I think that decline of quality, new questions may be the main issue. It will be interesting to see the next few months, and if they I do hope they find a way to You know, there's some really Grumpy, but great. and also that platform has helped a So I do hope that they find a solution. Thank you so much for watching. If you like my content, please I'll see you on the next one. Bye.