- [Adam] At Nvidia's headquarters, the chips that propelled the company to a 2 trillion dollar valuation were used in custom software that helped design this office. - We're using a lot of to help optimize the daylight - We got to test out our - [Adam] And beyond powering the program that visualized the office, NVIDIA's chips also served as the inspiration for - These projects are all - [Adam] So what does the soul of one of the most sought and how does NVIDIA's space fuel the work, powering the AI revolution? I took a tour and chased - [Adam] On NVIDIA's campus these two buildings are the focus. The 500,000 square foot Endeavor, and the 750,000 square foot Voyager. Yes, those are Star Trek references. An outdoor park connects - Our triangle motif here of the origins of the company. 3D graphics were based - [Adam] The triangle is everywhere. From windows to walkways, to this corrugated structure. - This is the heart. The heart contains many Reception, conference - [Adam] The heart sits which was the first of to open on campus. In the middle of Voyager, there's this. - We call it the mountain and effect what we did was take that heart and spread it open across - Got it. The effect of this is that Endeavor feels inwardly focused, whereas Voyager is wide open. - It's like a highrise building - [Adam] But NVIDIA's to foster collaboration for its employees called Nvidians, bring shared purpose - The CEO Jensen was very, with the design here. For them, chip design, it's all about connections. How do you move information What they do is they design - [Adam] In Voyager and Endeavor, there are workspaces for The project's leaders for connecting workers was an open office. - We always talked about the to collaborate to get - [Adam] But as anyone who's worked in a big open room knows, noise can be a problem. - I mean, if we're in one that can be incredibly noisy. - Yeah. - So the shaping of the roof The whole thing is faceted. So the sound as it reflects, it's not reflecting back to you, it's reflecting elsewhere. And behind that, there's So the sound goes and - [Adam] Nvidia said findings in this MIT study helped from the cubicle filled to what we see in these newer buildings. - There's a visual connection, even if there's not an audio connection, and that allows, that quicker iteration, allows those deeper relationships that are important to building - So you're saying, it's not just about giving to connect and socialize, but you're saying the actual work that they then do together is better? - Absolutely, yes. - And that's just by being - It starts with that. - And unless you never leave a desk, it would be tough to avoid especially on the stairs. - So what you see along the and at the very top, that's the bar. - It's a little bit of a Your first coffee, your second coffee, and now you can have a drink. (people laughing) I love it. - [Adam] In Voyager alone, some blazing trails up the mountain. - We have way more stairs than The elevators are pretty tucked away. They're there, yeah. You know, people do need elevators, but it's not front and center, and that's again, something I think that's pretty unique to Nvidia. - [Adam] But NVIDIA's aren't meandering. The hallways that cut through provide shortcuts across Endeavor, and this extends outside too. - When we built the second which is Voyager and the park in between, we connected them at both levels so that the trip between the - [Adam] How short? We tested it. How long do you think it's gonna take us to get from here to Voyager? - Shouldn't take more than two minutes. - Let's start the timer and go. - How did we do? - Timer stops. We were so close, 2:30. 2:30. 2:30. Maybe we were a little leisurely. Maybe we were looking But getting to meetings and coworkers is only part of optimizing efficiency. Nvidia wanted to create the and this is where NVIDIA's tech came in. - One of the key as a company is simulation. We want to be able to simulate - We as architects, you that we create, but there's renderings, you know, no matter it's still kind of an illustration of what we think the reality's gonna be. - [Adam] So Nvidia put its chips to work, creating a program that simulate how sun would - If I showed you those of a space like this, it looks almost identical to what came out right in terms of what the - [Adam] In total, there are 511 triangular of the two buildings, but not every area is meant to get light. The center of the mountain because- - Here on this floor, we have large labs. In the past, most of our of a traditional office building. So it was a conference or a janitor's closet. - [Adam] Nvidia has 42,000 in Voyager alone. That's more than 15% of the space in the building. Balancing that tech in both There's this 80 foot and more than 14,000 plants in Voyager. You enter Nvidia's headquarters, a company known for GPUs and powering AI, and the first thing you - Yeah. It becomes a relic in some ways if they put their technology up. - [Adam] And these buildings, which are the first ones, the 30-year-old company has ever owned, suggest Nvidia doesn't plan on becoming a relic either. - We see Apple, Google, Meta, now this, right? They're really designing They've matured to a point where, yeah, they're like a They need spaces like this that really kind of can - [Adam] Nvidia has room to grow. It could even add a third spaceship. Would you consider using AI in some way? Could it possibly play a - AI undoubtedly will be part of the construction of that next building. It's an assistant. It extends our reach. - I can only imagine, you know if we started design again today, and I would hazard to guess with Nvidia, it would be something we - This is the kind of casual connection that all the designers are hoping for.