&gt;&gt; Hello, everyone and welcome Whether you are brand new to This session will get you the latest features of We have the PowerShell team all the challenges that you face With me today, I have Thomas &gt;&gt; Hey, April. Great &gt;&gt; Great to have you. I heard a rumor that you had a little &gt;&gt; Yeah. It was something I but I probably just committed something to main branch Luckily, I think it was not a But imagine if it would have and I will have some testing I'm hopefully learning more today &gt;&gt; We've all done it and we &gt;&gt; Absolutely. &gt;&gt; Never. But you know what, we shouldn't use But I think we have they're going to help also how to do things remote machines and using some Let's go ahead and &gt;&gt; Absolutely. We have some absolute superheroes and We're really lucky to Danny, Damian, and Michael &gt;&gt; Hello. &gt;&gt; Hi, everyone. &gt;&gt; Hi. Thank you for having us. &gt;&gt; If you can introduce I don't think everyone out there knows who all these &gt;&gt; Sure. I don't know if I can go first. My I'm a Product Manager on the whichever product now that spans all things Clouds Shell, PowerShell SSH, you name it. It's a really fun thing to be on, so thank you for giving &gt;&gt; Thanks for being here, Michael. Next up we have Damian? &gt;&gt; Hey. Hi, everyone. I'm Damian, I'm in the PowerShell look at the Azure command We're looking at the Azure All resources in Azure are from &gt;&gt; Awesome. Danny, I've Go ahead and introduce &gt;&gt; I'm Danny. I am the Azure Cloud Shell and really whether that be in Azure, whether that's in Windows, and it's SSH, I'm your guy. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Thank you. who always gets me into &gt;&gt; Likewise. It's great to be here. I too am a Product Manager I have spent a lot of time looking Desired State Configuration, DSC, and one of my favorites &gt;&gt; Awesome. Next up we have &gt;&gt; Thank you. Thank Like everyone else, I'm a Product I work a lot with some of the PowerShell tooling stuff and today I'll be helping you &gt;&gt; Awesome. We definitely &gt;&gt; I just want to say that this &gt;&gt; We're going to go else backstage except Stephen. Stephen, you're going to be volunteer to help Thomas I think he won't admit it out loud because we never want That he may have put some secrets &gt;&gt; No one does. &gt;&gt; Never, we've never Stephen, help us out. How do we deal with secrets &gt;&gt; Sure thing. Don't worry, I myself have accidentally committed something I shouldn't The PowerShell team is here We have developed something which is a convenient way for users to store and manage their We have tried to unify the way you interact with vaults for different secrets way for you to manage secrets in your scripts &gt;&gt; That sounds like If I was to understand, this means to you, I mean, I remember doing some then obviously you want so you needed to store somewhere some credentials You're telling me I don't &gt;&gt; Nope. You can just store them a vault simply through the extension vaults that &gt;&gt; The vault is obviously it's protected from access. What values can I store in this? Is is it just username, password? What else can I put. What type datatypes &gt;&gt; Yes. We support five We support strings, secure PS credentials, hash tables, and bites as values &gt;&gt; That's a bunch of It is not just That's awesome. You just Can you explain to me a are and how I can leverage them? &gt;&gt; Sure. The value of secret management comes Extension vaults themselves are just separate PowerShell can install with secret a particular security structure that may fit your particular For security, it leaves the advanced key and authentication The vault themselves are the securely and in a safe space. Vaults are owned and community users who have these vault extensions throughout &gt;&gt; If I am working on, not a Windows device, maybe I'm working on Mac Can I use this? How do I get started? &gt;&gt; Yeah, so you can use this We support Windows, Linux, MacOS, and a variety of But secret management and the vaults themselves are all supported across those &gt;&gt; Awesome. &gt;&gt; Speaking of discrete platform, so that means already, it Does it also work with &gt;&gt; Yes. It does currently work However, we do encourage the latest PowerShell 7 That's where a lot of the and probably the best experience to have secret management in and a lot of the other cool &gt;&gt; Awesome. Can you Thomas how he's going to start &gt;&gt; Sure thing. First, I can talk a little bit about since that's the preferred one If you don't have PowerShell 7, you can go to the link and it will take you to our That's another great It is open source and it has a very vast and very to help you with any issues you Under the releases our latest release at the You can download the need for the specific Otherwise, there's a variety of We are on the Microsoft Store. For other Linux and Mac users, we have extensive documentation on how to install it &gt;&gt; Awesome. We'll put links of all these resources so you can reference all this and just in case you it will make it easier for &gt;&gt; Yeah, and another cool side-by-side with As you can see I have them zoom in a little bit, My Windows PowerShell and PowerShell 7 side-by-side &gt;&gt; Awesome. &gt;&gt; Awesome. &gt;&gt; Stephen, how do I now go and actually work with &gt;&gt; Yeah, of course. Secret a PowerShell module and so PowerShell modules are Functionalities of download and get They're all hosted here on If I searched secret here is the specific install in order to start using I'll jump over here PowerShell Gallery is the repository where all these modules are stored. We're going to use PowerShell get, which is the inbox module for This already comes by default 7 and is already registered with the gallery as If I run this command you'll see here that the registered with my The first thing you'll need to do I already have it installed myself, but you'll see a progress installed and we have It there. But what is there about I'm going to run this nifty You'll see if I run get Secret Management it lists out all the different commandlets You'll see here we have commandlets around getting and registering and These are all the manage and work with your secrets &gt;&gt; That's cool. After I have the Secret Management module &gt;&gt; The next thing you'll need Vaults are separate PowerShell store the secrets themselves. Like I said, these can be local or remote locations for your vaults. If I run the command you'll see nothing comes not registered any vault at all. But there is a wide can check out and look for If you use the find-module and tag Secret Management, you'll see this is a list of all the available vaults that we have currently on the &gt;&gt; Wow. There are some pretty well known KeePass I think, and another. That's some pretty good I guess it's not just &gt;&gt; Yeah. I was expecting Microsoft vault and I'm like, But it's great to see all the Hashicorp, KeePass, Are these all managed by the &gt;&gt; Yeah. These are all managed They have met the certain to work with Secret Management. They are all extension vaults. &gt;&gt; Awesome. They've all so they're secure, they're safe, and everyone's &gt;&gt; Yes. But for the I'm going to use the vault that we on the PowerShell team This is a secret stored here, I'm going to install Secret Store here using the same install I already have it but I will run the same what commandlets are Working with Secrets, typically using too many the vaults themselves some configuration but I'll get We'll be predominantly using secret management to Together, you'll see here something really cool we can do in one of the powers of PowerShell, some of the pipelining stuff. But I'll run this and you'll see I can actually get all the secret management and Secret of what's available to me of how &gt;&gt; Will this matter if we're When we're trying to is there any difference to us as a PowerShell user or Seven or what's the other? &gt;&gt; You don't need to be on seven. That being said, Seven It's inactive Windows PowerShell 5-1 is inbox, but it no longer gets so we highly encourage folks &gt;&gt; Awesome, fully supportive, &gt;&gt; Great. We have Let's start actually If I run the same get command I want to figure out a secret vault with so that can be the vault Taking a look at the commandlets well, simply put a but it's probably the one I'm going to use the in PowerShell to actually take a little deeper look Another great thing about We have a very extensive includes a very good synopsis, descriptions, and examples of I'm going to run this command here. Get-Help register secret vault with examples to actually I'll take a look. Here we go. Example 1. This is almost exactly the command we need right here in the to change the name to a more descriptive title of Let me get my cursor Here I'm going to run the command Register Secret Vault with but the module name as Specifying the Secret Store and I'm also Now if I run Get-SecretVault, you'll see now I have a vault so we're getting closer to &gt;&gt; Awesome. &gt;&gt; Currently, now we've we actually have to If I run Get-SecretInfo, this will show me what secrets I Currently we had non of them any secrets yet but we're going I'm going run Set-Secret It's going to ask me for the actual Here I'm going to type in my secret. &gt;&gt; Vault store also requires a I'll talk about that in a I have set my secret If I do get secret info once more, you'll see now that I have and my secretstore We initially developed secret that it's difficult to manage secrets securely in heterogeneous advanced scripts require and types of secrets when Some custom code is often required to manage secrets across platforms. Of course with secrets are very high-stakes with security implications that &gt;&gt; Stephen, One thing when we looked at all the different vaults those are basically all I which are shared, which I can Now, the one vault you just showed us like the secret is this now a centralized basically a vault specifically running on that or &gt;&gt; Great question. Secret store It stores files locally users.net core cryptographic We shipped this with secret management because we had at least one vault that they The extension goal, like is available cross platform Windows, Mac, and Linux, and it does take advantage of but of course it may not meet That's why there is a multitude of different extension vaults &gt;&gt; No, but this is basically now take exactly I can run this on my setting something up like with if I don't have anything, or I can just start my machine to securely &gt;&gt; Exactly. Currently securestring as the but there is, of the other extension vaults that meet better your &gt;&gt; Very cool. I like the amount That's really nice. &gt;&gt; I can go a little bit more into some of the options because that's some of the power and some really cool things We see my secret here, but in order to get my secret, all I have to do is simply write gets secret and then You'll see here it comes back as a secure string because that would be too easy to just type get but we can view it as plain text and that will display I just drew in a HelloIgnite You can use these commands where needed. Go ahead. &gt;&gt; Maybe one thing I a huge fan of like using GAP Let's look at like certain values and we can see a little bit does that also work &gt;&gt; Actually the best way to do that is through some of the metadata. Another cool thing that your secrets is adding some metadata to the secrets themselves your organization can get a little description of what any other data that might be I can add metadata to my secret You'll see now if I do get secret this is what the FL stands It will show me more This is very hopeful sharing secrets across Like you were alluding use some things with select objects. Say we don't want We can use the piping to simply just grab the &gt;&gt; It's just fantastic to have a object-oriented to be honest, again, for automation, this makes &gt;&gt; Exactly. That was the we really wanted to cover Sharing files across orgs. You're running local test and production changing only a single parameter of the vaults that you may be using, and then handling all the with the vaults themselves. Ultimately, we just want to create a very convenient feature simplify their interactions by only need to use a &gt;&gt; Fantastic, now again, and one thing that comes up now, we talked a lot about the up some of the [inaudible] the different types you showed and some centralized somewhere multiple machines than the one you just throw it on What happens if I don't have when I'm in a versus when I'm in a how do they work? How does that work? &gt;&gt; If I don't have internet the world's least responsible ISP, but what if I lose internet, I need to store my secrets &gt;&gt; Also if it's a local that should work you have the correct installed before you lose internet, You'll only be effective if sugar internet. Not work. &gt;&gt; Speak of remote obviously as an Azure person which popped up in my view when there was something Azure Key Vault. Does that mean we can use Azure Key Vault as a vault &gt;&gt; Yes, exactly. Azure Key Vault is a option for you for It is a remote vaults secret storage launched by Azure in the I can jump into a little demo if &gt;&gt; That will be awesome. Not, that [inaudible] the &gt;&gt; Cool. Like I said, you'll need to actually have the You can do this by installing the you can install module Az, it's going to take a little bit many here if you haven't but I have already installed here. We'll just run a GET command with the Az Key Vault see that I have it installed and these are the command These are a lot I know it can get a little scary with all but it's very simple. All you have to do is to connect your Az account with and then create a new Key Vault. I've already gone ahead and created, but this here is the but you would just fill your resource group name and necessary locations I've already gone ahead and I'll just run. I'll set a name here of Here I already have. This is the command that the Az Key Vault with Simply just walking through it, I'm calling it my Az Key Vault, using the Az.KeyVault module Then I can also add things so this is needed so I can name the vault itself as well as add the subscription ID I've already gone ahead and but I will run this command If I run secret vault here you see now I have two vaults I have the original one that it says it's Default with secret store, and now I have the my Az Key Vault 1 &gt;&gt; Awesome, so you I think the biggest trip a pair making sure that they're but it's great to get because that's pretty &gt;&gt; Exactly. Secret management work with different vaults Let's create a secret in It's as simple as it was before. The only difference that we have to do is we have to Since we have multiple vaults, we'll need to specify it I have set the secret, and now I just have &gt;&gt; There we go. That is because I have already registered this name when Let's actually change up to newAz2 here, and so there we go. &gt;&gt; You cannot have two secrets with the same name, &gt;&gt; That's a good thing. &gt;&gt; I was doing a little testing earlier so I must have forgotten to unregister this newAz secret. But that's good to know a conflicting secret name so we &gt;&gt; Yeah, and you because I think we've all done that. &gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. &gt;&gt; I think it happened today, didn't you? You overwrote something. Now that's a good safety net, that's really good that &gt;&gt; Now if I run Get-Secretinfo, I have my two secrets registered with the I have the my secret and then I have my newAz2 in my &gt;&gt; This is absolutely awesome. Obviously we have the which again can use without any But then the Azure one is I see it like two super First of all, when I'm an Azure administrator or an Azure Developer and I'm I'm already used to use and this makes automation of servers and other systems use the centralized secret store. But then also if I'm not using Azure today and I'm just working Or I work with servers running anywhere basically also I could use that Azure Key Vault as a centralized store a secure way and then use basically to administrate By the way, you mentioned before that obviously this Can you show us a little How can I now leverage this &gt;&gt; Sure, yes, like SecretStore and Secret Management You can use all the commandlets this demo in your automated scripts. But you can also set specific configurations You saw, I showed a little bit of the commandlets available These are all FTP want to allow you to configure. But I'm going to show off a little bit about You'll see here that these are the different configuration settings I can change with the The authentication needed to the password time out and the We can set these versus set configuration. You see I need to actually You can see here I can use PowerShell's awesome through the different Using this, you can automate your vault and your scripts to Of course, if you ever need you can just set secret store &gt;&gt; Cool, awesome. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Stephen, what else do we need I think you've literally covered Super in-depth, I've quite a bit about secret store that I actually didn't know before, and I thought I knew a But awesome, that was really good. &gt;&gt; Thank you. That's basically it, it's very simple and easy to use. That's one of the main design and why we develop secret management and we wanted to create just for folks to work with whatever vaults they and easily manage their secrets. &gt;&gt; Awesome, thank for helping us out today We're going to remove Stephen and Thomas and I are going Then we're going to have a then we're going to &gt;&gt; To learn more of the PowerShell was built read Shell Of An Idea by Don Jones. Get your copy today. &gt;&gt; Now that we're back from Thomas and I have another issue. We work a lot with console commands. I use Cube CTL, I work a lot with Docker, &gt;&gt; Yeah, of course, I obviously like PowerShell, but unfortunately, there is a lot of command line name it as you want, which do not have a I'm a little bit annoyed by that because I really like PowerShell and I like We have the Jason Helmick. I learned PowerShell from &gt;&gt; When you were a fetus. &gt;&gt; It's an honor to have you here and you're going to talk a little bit about how we can solve &gt;&gt; Yeah, hey Thomas. The world is a messy place, and a lot of times we need that mess in order to make the it's chaos at first. Well, the sacred vow to PowerShell empower you to help and to get some clarity Crescendo is really no different. First of all, let me It's pretty obvious, but I Console commands or what I refer to as platform-specific I'll use native commands a lot. Native commands run just like they First of all, PowerShell your native commands just work. The challenge here is what Not everybody, especially if really enjoys working with Those native commands Which it's tough to grab use that in automation They have a lot of, well, let's just say switches and parameters that oftentimes What a PowerShell user those native commands into Essentially, what crescendo a little wrapper around that you can work with Verb-now, you can have the parameters spelled out You can add in help, all of these great benefits that be there for you around Now you can use them and automate them in the environment &gt;&gt; That sounds fantastic. Actually, you're telling me now I can use a command line tool which gives I can use that to wrap around this I can work in my script automate things as it would be &gt;&gt; Yeah, you absolutely can. The best part to holding onto that sacred vow the PowerShell users have a If you like commandlets, you like to way commandlets work, you like the fact that you You can use crescendo that environment for you This is one of the coolest Keep in mind that PowerShell Not only can you do this with native but you can do it with native PowerShell is a great option to manage Linux and Mac since why not convert some of those all that stuff, and make it something more readable, something that you can use a Yeah, it's cross-platform the benefits that you would &gt;&gt; That's awesome. I think the biggest challenge we The world's a messy place, there are tons of tools out having to context switch, learn a new thing, and if you that's tough, whereas I'm This sounds pretty cool. &gt;&gt; Exactly, as a matter of fact. Let me just give you before we dive into Let me give you a of what this really means to you. I've got a Windows 11 let's just start up PowerShell. I've got PowerShell 7 right here, and everybody on Windows at and I'll do ipconfig/all. This gives all your network Now a lot of times you might want to do some But here's the problem, this is all string my screen and it's not like If I try to select object this is just going This is not helping me. What would help me though is if I pick crescendo and maybe I get something Ipconfig, I can have something went wrong, &gt;&gt; Let's just try it. Apparently Here's the best part. but it's really easy to fix. Do I have it in here? No. But Let me just switch and show you how cool this could be. I think I have it under Here's the best part. so that everybody can the word clear in a little bit, but here's the best part. What you make with crescendo How cool is that? I've I'm going to import it. I've called this I just showed you ipconfig, but now let's take a look at it. Let me get out of this and get Let's do get-ipconfig, and we'll do -all. There it goes. Now it's Now I've got this great but here's the best part. It's an object. How do I know it's an object? Well, one of the best is you can always find In this case, I've got this with all of the information that That means I can use all of the features and except for the one where I type Let me give you an Ipconfig and let's say I want Thanks, Predictive IntelliSense. Now, I can easily grab whatever information out of This is what crescendo does for you, is that it takes those makes them more usable for Here's the best part. It really gets awesome. I'm on PowerShell 7, but watch, I'm going to go over to and I'll type get-ipconfig. Hey, it works just fine. Because whatever you and I'm probably going whatever you create with crescendo, those modules, they way down-level to We thought that that was really because a lot of have Windows 5.1 on a We know that you want to We wanted to make sure that You don't have to upgrade to use the products or the but you do need to be on One last thing is I want looky here, is a little Now, the native command to get similar networking Wow, what a mass of string Well, here's the best part. PowerShell is cross-platform, What I'll do is I'll just type in, what did I call that when that's what I called it thanks Boom, now I can grab Mac, Linux, Windows, you can have complete control over your environment the way that &gt;&gt; That is pretty stinking awesome. Because most of our environments where some of their Mac and even Linux devices. The other thing I really liked, I know this is a PowerShell related, but it's really critical to You showed it beautifully out because we saw how fast you're It helps you write better scripts, write better code, Because it takes what it write and fills it in for you. Because very often I'm typing GetHelp a lot to find Actually IntelliSense have We can use IntelliSense, Macs and Windows devices. We can do everything with That's really that's, really cool. &gt;&gt; You know, April, if you he would be happy to talk to you and all the cool things it does, but you're absolutely right. The purpose of a good Shell One of the things that on is that Shell experience. That Shell experience is If you've ever watched and type, you'll know how I'm just really bad at it. Predictive IntelliSense has made &gt;&gt; You do you look professional &gt;&gt; Crescendo really helps Now obviously, it must be easy. That's what you showed us. But what would be the other options, like if I would want to do that in other way and not use crescendo. I guess there are some pretty hard &gt;&gt; Thomas, you're a One of the purposes help folks that aren't They don't know how they how they could access a REST They don't know how to Crescendo was really for folks that they just don't know Absolutely. If you're a developer, then you already know rewrite the entire or you could write your or if it has a REST API directly But here's the interesting thing. How much time does that take you? I have a lot of are developers that crescendo simply because now I I don't have to think but you can, and that's What we wanted crescendo answer that sacred bow to give people the ability to go out there and do know all of that cumbersome overhead that they may not already know. &gt;&gt; No, it's fantastic. It's like I just was at an event, I think shortly, a What happened was I they actually created using crescendo for some using inside their company I was like, wow, so you just did that? They said, yes, we just did that &gt;&gt; It is, it's really cool. &gt;&gt; I can show you how &gt;&gt; I'd love to see it. &gt;&gt; I got a cute little picture. Let me show you my little picture first and show you my First of all, I want you to You can be an author and you can be a user of a crescendo module, To be the author, what you need to do is you need We even have documentation for it. You need the crescendo module and you can download You also need to select and you need to know where that You need the path to the native with crescendo and There are basically two ways to get started and I'll show you both. One is you can get started with the commandlet itself called and what that'll do is creating a JSON configuration file. What this simple JSON is just properties and values. What do you want to What's its verb? What's its noun? What parameters do you want to have? What do you want to When you're all done defining this, you run export crescendo pops out of that is two things. You get an auto-generated module, a PSM 1 that wraps all of the stuff You also get manifest, a PSD 1. With those artifacts, deploy those modules out to wherever you want that One thing to keep in mind is wherever you deploy these modules to that those native commands exist. Remember, crescendo is just wrapping It's not rewriting all of it so those native commands That's really all there is to it. You create a configuration you now have a working &gt;&gt; That's pretty awesome, Are you going to show &gt;&gt; Fine so here we go. Let's go over here and take a look. Now, one of the first things I have documentation on all of this and we're adding more and You can find the documentation, go to PowerShell box and I click this one down here, go into the documentation and I don't know if a lot of but a lot of the development well, we don't food our own stuff. We build much. There isn't that much stuff that we do in important engine work so a lot here under utility modules and Stephen just talked about secret Here's where you'll find crescendo and now that this documentation, we've got some great Getting There's a couple of reference points that I'm going to point you to, but I want you to know that the the first things is how Let me just show you if I already have it, but let me show you how to get it. &gt;&gt; By the way, you're not actually you're drinking your own champagne. Just want to point that out. &gt;&gt; I like that a lot better. As you can see, I can Microsoft PowerShell crescendo You can just Install it by typing This is what you need You need to have PowerShell Now, here's the interesting thing, and I would be totally remiss Sydney, one of the other PMs on the PowerShell team is going the newest version of PowerShell get so maybe you're already using it would be PS resource and if you have a new version Once you have the module, you do a Git command on, let's see, module and I'm going to do Microsoft PowerShell crescendo and bears the commandlets and it What I'd like you to take notice of is the commandlet that I'm which is new crescendo one of the ways to help you get That's how you get it installed. Now we're ready to pick a command &gt;&gt; Please take a great command. &gt;&gt; I'll pick an Azure one. &gt;&gt; That's fantastic. &gt;&gt; Look, when are you going to get there's a couple of things Now, we documented this so you can take a look in Make sure that you're wrapping You saw me demonstrate IP I shouldn't have wrapped that. The reason being there is already get net IP address that In other words, somebody else the wheel if you don't need to But if it doesn't and you Keep in mind you don't have to I said that when a friend rep Cube CTL and I that's like wrapping exchange. You're going to be there awhile, but maybe there's five things you need to do so just wrap You can always go back You just add stuff to If the original command like the original native command, if it doesn't supply These are all great crescendo. Let's pick a command. Now, the documentation that I so expertly oh, I didn't close it. The documentation under choosing a command line tool will take However, the next article, decide which features you want to wrap will also take you But one of the things that in these demos in the docs, I'm using an Azure command and I'm the Azure computer management I picked this was because It works on Windows or Linux. It's an easy download. It doesn't mess up an easy removable so if you want to play with crescendo this a great command to play with, and we're documenting it for I'm going to use AZCM agent It helps to understand a little bit about that command so let's Let me clear the screen AZCM agent. I'm just It comes up with a Help File could tell me what this command I'll probably sit here and which features I want to wrap first. In my case, I already did out so I'm going to look I want you to see that this command has subsections and subcommands. It's a very complicated commands, a lot like net S-H. I'm going to go into the config and I can do help here and see what commands are available and I I'm just going to The end result for today to get a particular property like the proxy URL and be able to see I could wrap set and In this case, let's just do a list so we can see I'm running the actual native PowerShell is running this native commands just So maybe proxy URL or is a value that I want to Now I've picked the command location so you're You're already, let me I said one way you could do this, and I'm ticking where I'm at, I'm in my demo folder. One way you could do this is I know you already see the conclusion here from my but I think what I'm going type this out manually, specify the vert while accept it because that The verb guinea, which yes, that's not a valid verb. I'm doing that intentionally can see that just the noun stuffs, so give that actual path and location is. Now when you run this, this gives you some but let me show you what I'm going to pipe It members the greatest ever for objects flying What object do I have? Well, I have a crescendo and here's what I I can fill out with I could go in and I could add here so that I don't write JSON myself if I want to. In fact, in our documentation, we give you an example This is one way you just show you this is what the documentation is You've got your new You can convert to JSON It pre-builts the JSON for you. Like I said, that's one way. Another way you can do this is if you have an existing you just copy and modify that one. Or along with the crescendo module we gave you a whole You can just grab one of those. Now what I've done is Thomas, what I what I what I wanted to do was I would just wanted to show you an example of this and get it to export and see if we I've pre-created one that I did it this morning, Let's bring it up VS Code and AZ, thank you, predictive intelligence. &gt;&gt; I just wanted to walk-through of the couple of You can see what the you can see it's pretty You could create this yourself. Now in the documentation, we tell you how to create the This is one of the most of the file. This is the schema. The schema will help you writing this so that well, I don't remember. Now, we do have all these but you don't always have the The schema will help you out. Underneath the command section is and let's just take a I've set up a verb, noun, and some additional information like what platform does You can specify a Now, before I get to take a look at the original name. This is the physical location, the path to that executable file. This is where I'm going to that Now when this runs, if you remember, when I was typing, this is a command that I want to work as a sub-command called config. In this case, what I'm doing in the original command yes, call AZCM agent, but also go into the and in this case, I'm saying list. What is this command going to do? This command's going to get me a list of those Right now there are no additional It's just going to get There's nothing optional for me but I do want you to notice this. This is the most important part in working with native The native command AZCM agent has the ability That's a structured output. I'm asking that command give me that structured output, and what I'm going to do is Down here I have an output those arguments that output add a member type so that I get and now I have an object. In other words, this is how we make objects out of all that string data. Now what I want to is modern commands that have the ability to produce JSON are very easy to work the output is easy. As a matter of fact, the code I I just reuse it over and When is this not going to be easy? Well, anytime you that doesn't produce which would be things like I had to manually write and if you've ever done that, that's not necessarily an easy task. There's a whole lot of things with regular expressions in there I understand that that's difficult. That problem is going to be It's not a powers-hell problem, that's a life problem. Arbitrary text is so a human must do it. If you can work with that's going to be One other command I I outlined because this I did a get ASI config property commands so It has to be underneath that config section and and in this case I Again, we give you the I know it's a little confusing But what do you want the What was its original name on the original command Get. What do you I'm following the powershell I'm going to call it a property. It's a string type, it's part of the default parameters set and I'm adding in some Again, that boilerplate I'm going to take this right now, and what, here's the magic watch. Expo or crescendo, let me just show you so you I had bears the configuration file, but there's nothing else here. Let's do an export crescendo module. Configuration file, you can have Now in this configuration file, I defined multiple commands, but maybe you want to define one You can do that too, and you can list multiple here separated by a comma. Also, what module do you I want you to call I spelled it wrong. How about that? &gt;&gt; Let's use predictive text. I remember a smart man named Jason Helmet VJs and Helmick don't reinvent the wheel Just saying I did &gt;&gt; One in front off the like &gt;&gt; I just noticed that I'm not even sure why But hey, got also gives Let me see if this Sometimes I'd have a bad day but let me just see if I can I don't know how, but Let's do NLS. There it is, so here's how magical this is. You just saw me make it from I'm going to import it AZ. This is why I'm not It's not fair we go. Now I've got an important. Now, if you're a PowerShell expert, you already know, Hey, I want to know what so you do get command module, easy, there it is. I got two commands. I'm going to do a get ASI, CM, agents, config. Well, there's a whole bunch but it's not really the but it's an object. Look at an object, and this is the object it in my output photo, I can work with this Let's do this. I'm going to bring up the pipe another feature of I'm going to call up list-view so that I don't have I want to select, expand That's exactly what But the key here is, I could do this manipulation The same thing. Let's say I guess Proxima URL but I've got another command Chernoff list-view, AZCMJ, Config. That's what I wanted. Property. There we go, and property proxy URL. That's all there is to it. Literally this morning I quick configuration files I was lucky. The output was already could provide so I didn't have to really Now I've wrapped these commands, make very PowerShell like and now &gt;&gt; This is just awesome. It's like insane how It's just a couple of lines of JSON, and already you have your ready for your command-line tool, which you usually used directly. That's awesome. But we also you to use the AC-connected the common line tool which Excited about that one two. One thing I really I think that is one thing I learned very clearly is check if the Tool support I felt like that will easier than dealing with I think that is one, but I &gt;&gt; As a matter of fact, let me me show you two things real quick. First of all, if you don't know where the PowerShell search for the PowerShell team blog. &gt;&gt; Will technically &gt;&gt; Well, yeah, I guess we are, and you got to the and here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to type band I'm going to type crescendo. I just want to show you something just want folks to see I think it was the very one that I had put up for crescendo. I want to show you that down here. I showed the code that I know it's really but the output handler got a lot bigger and I want I wrote this output handler. This is not necessarily If you have older legacy it's going to take a We're working on some ideas here, but this is just the way that it is. Modern commands that have structured One of the things I want to this and I couldn't get it to work. I had to call the lead engineer one of the original with Jeffrey and Bruce pay yet, and he and I worked on crescendo and this I couldn't get this to work and I had to can you see what's wrong with this? He goes, yep, I can Here's what my point is. I am not going to rest if it takes an actual developer on the PowerShell team to help I'm not going to rest until we with legacy commands and If you have a modern and one last thing I just is if you would consider this. If you are making some I realize some people internal users and they can't But if you can make something public glad to the If you can go out there and let me just show you a tag here. You can type in the Word the tag that will show by crescendo that people There's somebody hitting hey, you guys auto rep Sysinternals. You're right. Somebody dead matter of fact, famous Well, one of the big contributors. Another way, I just, because I click or people You can find module &gt;&gt; I'll do the same &gt;&gt; Well, that's super cool. I see already a couple of This is absolutely fantastic. The community can actually create modules like wrappers share them in the PS galleries for everyone to make them available, which is absolutely crazy. &gt;&gt; Which is the part which is totally different from The tool open source, the Teams open-source, and I know, Jason have spoke about this but even on the GitHub repo, people can open up issues as well. Contact you all with questions, especially if you but definitely give the about Crescendo and the The more you talk about it, the more of these &gt;&gt; Absolutely. Thanks, I would encourage folks, please, as you just come out to the GitHub, use You can search for GitHub Crescendo, and it'll take you right and please, if you have Jim and I are out there. We're getting close, from an a new release and some some new features that Come on out to our GitHub. Tell us what's going on. &gt;&gt; We'll put a link for everyone flash or pin it down so you can have the links and get there quickly. Awesome. Jason, is there anything else that we missed Because that was a But I won't admit how I've had to manipulate strings before &gt;&gt; We handle objects, that need elevation for Crescendo will do it all. Come check out our docs and &gt;&gt; Awesome. Thank you, Jason &gt;&gt; Great to see you. &gt;&gt; Well. We're going to We're going to come back in a to tackle our next &gt;&gt; Learn more about the development and Get your copy of Shell of &gt;&gt; Welcome back and thanks to our sponsor for that Thomas, tell me, what's next? &gt;&gt; Next, we're going to talk about PowerShell remoting or because that's a very makes it obviously easy to manage We know that IT pros as well as We have Danny here to Danny, can you tell us a little the PowerShell team is doing &gt;&gt; That's an all upstate There's this, I'd say, more well-known technologies in the Window space whether WACC is starting to come in as more of a remote management tool as well, and then there's also SSH on the All of management we're looking at how do we want the remote 3D space to evolve From the PowerShell side, we're primarily investing in SSH. WinRM is more of a legacy remoting is not deprecated, but It's not really seen any of the whether that's two-factor auth, and really there's a lot of like not having to do a &gt;&gt; To interrupt you quickly. &gt;&gt; Yeah, sorry. &gt;&gt; I just want to amplify this really strongly because is that we have actually SSH and and we can use that with Windows and Linux and MacOS. Is that &gt;&gt; Exactly. SSH has been around and it's really a well-built tool, it has a lot of functionality. It has a lot of depth to It's probably some of the MacOS folks and the this is one of the things and SSH is also on Windows. It's been in Windows client as It's also available as SSH server as a feature on-demand or optional feature on both Windows SSH is in box, it's there by default on really That's the direction we're we run in the future and really &gt;&gt; I don't think I've realized the box available because I've always RDP into servers when but also when we work in Azure, we know that RDP is the greatest risk of attack for &gt;&gt; Exactly, and one of the there on Windows is the security. What I like to say is you If you RDP into a machine, once you're in that box, you can do whatever you like. If you're just clicking your mouse, no one can figure out what you've done unless they're With this SSH, you With PowerShell remoting over SSH, you can get the PowerShell logs. You have this baked in better security mechanism just &gt;&gt; I love it, and I love that I think that is something a hey, I have SSH I don't need to spin up a third I can just basically use if you will, and run SSH and you actually have Again, everyone who check it out. It's fantastic. &gt;&gt; Do you want to see a demo? &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Let's jump into the meat Let me get rid of this &gt;&gt; We're an inception. &gt;&gt; Here, I'm just on You can see I'm on one tab. Here we go. There we go. You see I'm on a Windows machine. I have partial 72 here. I had done no additional setup I'd say native SSH here. You can see that SSH is here, related things like SFTP is here. All of that as a native all the related tools What we can also do is actually, I start that over, then from just the local and then &gt;&gt; Yes, so let's go here. Did you want to start from here or do you want to start &gt;&gt; I'll start from the screen. Does that make sense? So Can one of you prompt me because it's a hard jump or OpenSSH is on the box into Azure, or we should also try to a jump &gt;&gt; What I could do and you show it's there and you're showing like hey, and then I could just hey, so I manage a lot How do I use that now Can show us how to connect to an &gt;&gt; Perfect, let me show it here, and then show the docs I actually have the docs Obviously, just minimize the screen and say if the documentation is here and we and then we'll do your prompt &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Okay. Good. &gt;&gt; I just go are you &gt;&gt; Just go for it. Let me do a time. Sorry, Tom is going to do it. &gt;&gt; I cannot remember it's just about local SSH. &gt;&gt; Yeah SSH. You can see here we have SSH already installed, You can see here we have I've done no additional configuration but if you want to get SSH server, we actually have some in our documentation You can go and do it through the GUI and things like optional features, or we also have and enable this functionality, whether it's your OpenSSH &gt;&gt; That's fantastic. So I can easily use that, obviously, now I could use SSH to a server running in my connect and do all that One thing I do and a lot of our Can you maybe show us how a local SSH client or from a &gt;&gt; Let me pull up my Actually, some folks may this functionality called AAD login for Linux, where you can say az ssh vm, and then you can log in to a VM We've expanded this functionality to both support username key-based login, Windows We have this as a feature-rich We have both the az ssh vm command, we also have this PowerShell Then what I can do is just specify the details of the machine Here, I have my resource group name, thank you predictive We got resource group name, we have a Windows server machine 22, it's in my resource group WinDemo. This is actually an Arc machine. We've expanded these commands and so here you can see a HybridCompute for resource type. That means it's an Arc machine. You can also specify that it's just Microsoft.compute to say this is Then I've specified a &gt;&gt; If I'm logging into a really Danny, can I enable two-factor &gt;&gt; Yeah, for sure. SSH natively supports two different whether that's a YubiKey There's also with AAD, you can enable two-factor and we'll honor any of those two-factor auth that you &gt;&gt; So I can use my face? &gt;&gt; Exactly. Windows Hello, we are working on adding and so you can get You can get your Those are all things that right now it's the standard, I'd say things like YubiKey or AAD two-factor auth to &gt;&gt; Awesome. Very cool. Because I think both of the environments I'm remoting we should all have but I work with a lot of really secure customers We talk about all the ways etc, so this is really cool. Having MFAR two-factor there really ticks all the boxes &gt;&gt; Exactly. That's one of I'd say as we move forward more features like GIA we're setting SSH up to be the You really want it to be really a no-brainer for folks to move over, and we understand that folks have legacy workloads that might be running out when We just used RDP, and what we really want it for customers to move to SSH. With all the security features, just even natively with SSH, it's already a no-brainer. &gt;&gt; Awesome. &gt;&gt; If I just jump back here I'm connecting Actually, the really connecting to Arc machines is a lot of times for your you don't want a public don't want really any Actually, when we're connecting we're connecting without without a public [inaudible]. If you want to connect to you can onboard them into Arc. Arc I'll remind you and you can also set Right now we're in preview and it's a free preview and so you can go and connect to any of these machines If you onboard to Arc, you set up this remoting. As you can see here, I can SH machine, it's a Windows machine so I'm going to set up Hopefully, I type it I'm on my Windows Server. You can say whoami. You can see I am on my Windows in as Danny on this &gt;&gt; This is super exciting. Just to summarize this, what you just did is from like from your notebook You connected to a machine probably in the data or even an Azure, and you basically didn't that matter into like public and You were just able to do that using the Azure control plane and to make that secure connection. Is that a fair summary? &gt;&gt; That's perfect. What we one, with Arc is bringing the Azure control That's if you don't if you have something in a we want you to be able to use the Azure management plane Especially with SSH, get a connection to Here on my local I'd say an Azure CLI get the appropriate extension for Azure CLI which is or the appropriate Azure PowerShell But we can also do things like have those things If I just go into my open up Cloud Shell, let Cloud Shell startup. Now I'm in, let's say, an environment where I have Just to show the Az CLI experience, if I say az ssh arc, specifying my resource group, [inaudible] it's a double Let's just do the Actually, to show you the it's right here so you can Here, I'm connecting to you I have the name of my Here, if I want to log in with my AAD credentials, I just need to specify and the name of my machine, and I'll get authenticated You can see here I'm say my alias at Microsoft.com. I'm now on this Linux machine, just logged in as my The awesome thing is I want to be able to but now we can do that As long as you have a browser, you can just go into the portal, used Cloud Shell, and connect to any of the &gt;&gt; This is all being governed all by group membership, etc. If you want to admin servers or services or it literally is controlled you don't have to I think the biggest issue that organizations face is when they have a lever or they're managing the I mean, I'm not going to talk went into SQL boxes if you will, or even We used to use an admin login. That was a group admin, This is awesome that we how they do it via group &gt;&gt; Exactly. Like I said earlier, the Linux AAD is there, Windows AAD support will Go sign your groups, and you can really do all this natively with policy or really any way you want &gt;&gt; Cool. Danny, is the Windows &gt;&gt; Yes. Windows access with It will be coming out soon, but it is coming. But on that note, you need just AAD in order to get this, I'd say seamless experience. Actually, if I just jump here I have that same Windows We actually have this new here that's called just the Connect. If we remember that that you have for also to Arc machines. As it connected to my I used my password. Here I'll supply my username, and we now have this new If I click this button, it's going to take over my hey, we're going to make sure you don't have I'm going to say to take what I have for Cloud Shell. It's going to take this command me and automatically Now I can just supply my password If I did this setup with a key, it's one click once I have my key. If I have my password, I can easily get into anywhere if it's a username key-based login, AAD login from &gt;&gt; That's pretty solid. &gt;&gt; I can imagine using this like sitting in the get an alert, need to restart a I'm logging in from their if CloudShell to actually I'm not sure if that's but it's a secure way actually. No VPN needed, nothing like that. Again, you can support I absolutely love that solution. &gt;&gt; I think sitting in a pub, I think your idea is brilliant. &gt;&gt; Also, the other if you are at the pub or the same experience in the same way to connect we also support native SSH tool. If I just jump back to, I'd say my local experience. You can see here I'm back We have a command and so what this does is it You can see here I have all of the remaining things that auto the name, local user, all that's the same, same with that resource type. The new thing that we have Where do you want this SSH I just create this config file. I have it right to temp.config. Remember to hit &quot;Enter&quot;, &quot;Hey, there's some sensitive Just because you don't of this information for AAD certs persistent. You want to delete but now I have this SSH pass to any OpenSSH based tool. Here if I just say SSH, I pass in a - F, which is specifying the file. I can now specify which is WinDemo- the which is Win-Server 22, and then the name of the I can connect, if I do my password again, so that machine just If you want to use SFTP, if you want to use I'd say a where you're taking this SSH config, passing it to Ansible, you can connect to those machines The same thing applies remoting VS code remote debugging, anything that can take an SSH config file will be able &gt;&gt; I could see this any of the DevOps tooling when we're trying to either automate something, put into a pipeline, etc. For access, this would &gt;&gt; Exactly. As we talk and we acknowledged that come and adopt SSH, we think it's more secure. It has better auditing We fully acknowledge scenarios where you're You still want to connect with RDP. I'll just type it out again. If I say az ssh arc, and I specify the That Windows machine that I have. We also support this and so what this is an RDP session over SSH tunneling. On my remote machine, there is no RDP ports open. RDP is supposed to but it doesn't have to be exposed. I still have to do my SSH off here, so I often do my SSH tunnel and then on a separate machine I'm getting prompted so you have to do a double off here, but I can then open up. You got prompted for a yes, I want to trust this computer, and now it's going to from localhosts onto This server does not have does not have any inbound ports. It doesn't have any RDP ports open. But now I have an RDP session to my Windows machine &gt;&gt; This is just so awesome, and again, I cannot but this is all done securely over the Azure control plane using Absolutely great, though &gt;&gt; I think there's a I used to work for a managed I worked for several of them, and very often we had a jumpbox. We already peed into then that was &quot;secure&quot; to then get Again, you couldn't track down or there is an outage We were in that place many the jumpbox to do or left another attack surface. I could see a massive, access our servers in a Data center, whether I'm the MSP or and then we've got We have two-factor auth. We can track what goes on and This is awesome. I see a &gt;&gt; I think for connectivity with SSH for a machine there's a few different One I'd say there's the It's what I like to call. You have a VPN, it gives you and you can see that machine There's the jump box solution, which I'd say is a great solution. You secure the connectivity and a target machine and your client to the jump box. Also a great solution. Then there's also a proxy have to take bits on both the That's what we're using here. It's just a proxy based solution. As you can see a, lot of times one of those be kind of fits all for everyone, and each customer is the solution that That's why as a Microsoft has multiple solutions we the APN, if you're we have Azure Batch, and we also have this proxy especially for our machines, where you might need &gt;&gt; Yeah, absolutely. &gt;&gt; This is great stuff. Again, I'm super excited about this. Obviously remote managing machines, making sure that all these and again, going over SSH, that's real value because well you can not just you can actually use As far as I understand, S SCP to copy files and make Really exciting stuff. Now the question is what Can you share a little &gt;&gt; Yeah. Our roadmap is make SSH simple and secure to use? There's things that how do I configure SSH on both We're doing improvements install and configure SSH whether that be Really the investments and with the Azure CLI in Azure PowerShell and really making sure that via different commands to connect You really want it to for all of your SSH needs no A large area of investment is How do we make SSH the most desirable remoting technology &gt;&gt; That's awesome. I think the roadmap for one to have so they can reference it. Again, Microsoft has Every product team You guys are great at the community questions under but your roadmap's fantastic. I can see what's coming, and especially with they can see all the cool stuff &gt;&gt; Exactly. If folks are it's in the PowerShell Repo, it's the Win32-OpenSSH repo. That's where we release all of our beta releases GA &quot;Releases&quot; are what but we're still active on So if you want to get a hold of us, just open an issue there &gt;&gt; Awesome. Thank you, Danny. That was awesome. That's I think it's simplified. A lot of our connectivity the past and gives it an Thank you so much. Danny, I think we're going to take a quick break and another quick 5 -10 second break for people that want to hear &gt;&gt; Welcome back everyone. Hope you enjoyed our little Thomas, I thought it was pretty cool how everyone these great commands errors because it takes me &gt;&gt; For sure yeah. It's something which, what I was looking at is like like what they were doing, it was predicting what they what is that all about? Where is magic coming from. We have Damian here to &gt;&gt; Hey, Damian? &gt;&gt; Hey everyone? I wanted to talk about the Magic Theatre We usually call it and think of it as IntelliSense the shell to help whoever interact with the command be more productive, resisting typos, not having to do blow drying and backspace and or missing parameters, missing parameter values remember what is having that command have to write it again and All of that problem was by having customers in the studio and we looked We give them some studies, challenges and we went through and we're like, no, we need That's how we came with the idea At the end of the day, predictive IntelliSense is helping our diverse customers of characters they're typing to achieve a certain command. It was helpful for most of them. If you're familiar with PowerShell, I tend to say that is that completion on steroids. That's how I position it. We really want to make It has to be present, but you don't feel it's there. However, when you don't have you're starting to feel something I have installed a and I not installed predicted IntelliSense on Iike something is wrong and I was typing and I didn't I was like, hold on, it was Like, oh yeah, I forgot to do that. I went back and install into my comfortable environment. &gt;&gt; Good ahead Thomas. &gt;&gt; Now I think what is fantastic I would specifically like it Like the one example which struck me is like you buying a or you sit in front of a notebook, you open up the terminal, and then you have You need to know what you're doing. Now when you open PowerShell, like you get the Shell PowerShell with you actually get the like actually helps you. What do you actually want to achieve I find this super, super helpful. &gt;&gt; Absolutely, I think when we're writing code we have to think about our different languages, I live in the UK and for us, we use S's instead of Z. I and IT pros that constantly mess up commands And also things like neurodiversity, we've all learned different ways different neurodiversity I've worked with a lot of It helps them know what comes where I think you're right, Damian, you said it like getting words out, knowing where things think we forget if you don't use it all the time where that command or writing big scripts. It's really cool to see this to &gt;&gt; Absolutely, so Damian, can you tell us the history of these predictors Because we saw so many things Can you tell us a explain how that actually works? &gt;&gt; Yes. I would say the core of this experience Is what actually handled that We're going to dive But maybe I can do a quick demo like and as we navigate I will tell you how we got there, what led each step of &gt;&gt; Sounds great. &gt;&gt; This is my terminal, and I think what you've seen so far You're typing a code and I don't know if you yellow you have the command as one of the common It's unnecessary in PowerShell, but it is the command that We are treating all git or PowerShell command will behave the same way and then you have status, which is in the gray things. I don't know if you That's what the predictive It's working in my history and suggesting what would be the completion of the command then I have the right naturally completely command or Type &quot;Enter&quot; and it says Now, coming back to what you mentioned at obviously can get status committing something on Now, let's change the color so anyone can read Predicted IntelliSense allows us to change the color of the predictions. Let me get the right call around. Now if I do the [inaudible] again, I have a blue background. It's easy if you are like me, not very at ease with the black background that helps me understand where I am &gt;&gt; Whew, I like that. &gt;&gt; I really liked that a lot seeing when the colors are in that grayscale I just &gt;&gt; Let me [inaudible] here a bit and you see I' bad at typos [inaudible]. I'm good at doing The prediction or they come from my history and you That is from the been using on different policies. It completes the whole line The one I really like about Let me write it again. Here it is. &gt;&gt; Now history is good, but sometimes you want You're not sure that what you're looking for or it is It maybe slightly different. You may want to have more options. For that you have a exposed with the It is the least use. So far we've been looking and now we're switching to listing. In order to do that, it's simple. I just press &quot;F2&quot; and now &gt;&gt; Oh wow. &gt;&gt; Oh, I like that. &gt;&gt; You see you have bunch of comments from history. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I absolutely love &gt;&gt; Yeah. Absolutely. I just want to quickly amplify what You get this and maybe you're going to tell Even if I have now PowerShell open, I'm not writing PowerShell code. I'm not using the PowerShell Git as a common line tool &gt;&gt; That is correct. Well, I want to highlight here in the history, I just started like gi. It shows the Git command obviously, but it also shows commands that I'm going to use a road different lines and you can see it's highlighting the line It shows kubelogin because I've first a PSReadLine option It's actually searching through the history based on the not just the beginning It goes beyond just the idea of this is how my &gt;&gt; I love this, this is great. This is a lifesaver because something or I did something and I lost my history, this is perfect. &gt;&gt; Damian one thing you but I saw that it's even more &gt;&gt; It is really. When we had an interesting development we had at the very beginning the first idea was to have history But as we said, we wanted We wanted to expose this you have a lot of commands that are available and it's hard to The Azure PowerShell commands are There are about 5,000 commands Think of the number of parameter combination We had to find a way to expose and bring that into this experience. Customers want tightening the Azure an easier way to get their way That's how we come with And I'm going to run &gt;&gt; Can you show us that? I mean, I believe you that it's working actually navigate &gt;&gt; Yes. I'm starting to I want to create a or I sounded like resource has resource group and First of all, I have which are my history of commands. Then you have the remaining the right-hand side of the predictions between the We are calling an api to ask would match this three which is driven by AI will actually look in all the which has the command that will want to run at that &gt;&gt; That's really cool. I guess from a security standpoint when how do I know my dataset care? Because I'm sending data over, right, and it's sending data back. How do we secure that or &gt;&gt; We're not sending any values to the VI. We're summing the Let me switch very quickly taking just couple of minutes ago I'm here, it's basically a trace sniffing the http trends You can see that we're the last two commands In that case, that's a Get easy resource group dash name. The value has been Office gated. We're not sending anything, we're just sending three stars. We are sitting three stars that it is a value that has The response from the API a description that are would be fitting the In that case, you have a you have removed as Obviously you make create to delete them and so on. We go through the list and the list, as I said, is dynamic. But least if order, depending on whether it depends on the history &gt;&gt; That is awesome. We're personalized data we We just send what is the but there's no names or values Obviously, they're all not getting sand if I &gt;&gt; That is correct we are taking and our stance is that we're not sending in kind of &gt;&gt; That's really cool. &gt;&gt; I think like we talked about now, like you showed us the This is obviously super run the interactively commands But one thing we PowerShell is like writing PowerShell that we can actually build Can VAC powder predictors &gt;&gt; Even predictor we've been carrying that experience working on carrying that's Before we get to this good. I'd like to just complete the command I was showing a couple of elements around contexts If I'm creating a new predictors is actually here showing me a name of the resource As I said and you've any private data to the API. However, locally, we're of typical values that In that case, the typical value would be the name of Resource When we provide our suggestions we will inject the value from the previous command are the resource group that has been In that case, the West us two are values a previous command and the prediction and suggestion &gt;&gt; Awesome. That's really cool. &gt;&gt; Let's reach to VSCode that because we are talking &gt;&gt; I think VSCode is the preferred experienced mothers People have been working really long time when they They can tab through the experience has vastly I used to miss Oldfield ISE days, but I think I've moved on now embraced VS Code, &gt;&gt; As we said we brought, and we want to bring that experience that we have in the Here's a small script. The script is, has two values, location and resource group name. I'm creating a resource group Very standard, I would say approach Now we brought us and let's say you want to keyVault and think about the same experience that you have seen the predictions coming here. They are coming in India's code as, here's a recommendation of what use after you've done the One of the first suggestion You can see all the that are suggested by the Let's say if I'm accepting this one, we brought the same that we have seen in the look and learn from the of the vault and the name Here, the name of the vault has been learned from that one we have in line eight. The key, well, that's the one I'm going to do the same thing We're blending the experience of predictive IntelliSense in VSCode. It's something that It's really working progress. It's literary or built and just showing it to you. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Damian, that's Is there a future of where you The new features that &gt;&gt; A couple of things extension out in the near future. Few weeks, months from now, we will have a quick We want to ensure we bring and integrated nicely with You have pretty good PowerShell and the intelligence partially extension for that. We're also looking at enabling the predictive IntelliSense When he was a clamshell, even have &gt;&gt; That'd be cool because Cloud Shell in the past, I don't get that I don't enjoy it as much. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; I agree. It's all the time. You have to also experience, but anyone show something CloudShell works really and you use it for various reasons, and then you miss that, and so I'm super happy that this is coming down as well so thank you. &gt;&gt; Awesome, David. Was like to share with us today Because this is really cool everything automatically I hopefully write better scripts and commands now that I know &gt;&gt; As our approach remains to have an intuitive experience integrated with your muscle memory, wherever it is on the keyboard, we don't want to interfere The agility you have, with the keys we want to be blended in that experience and that user experience while we want to improve their It's an ongoing progress and the more people are using it, the better we will know what are &gt;&gt; I love, I just said That's also because I feel I'm a three legged water so I would love to be I think Thomas, you &gt;&gt; Yeah. I just want to that it's only gets so it gets better and so really looking forward. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Thank Thank you for coming and sharing all that awesome For everyone else out there, we're going to be back and you don't want to miss this. Hold on for just a quick break &gt;&gt; Learn more about the development and Get your copy of Shell of &gt;&gt; Welcome back. I hope you enjoyed the video But one of the most exciting things is just starting now, right, April? &gt;&gt; Absolutely. Because how to do stuff and But we really want to know what's coming down the pipeline, What's the vision? We've seen We're going to welcome in Michael, who's going to tell us all the roadmap for the &gt;&gt; Thanks. This is going Probably two or three slides, although all my slides are actually the show markdown commandments what are we thinking That stuff. I like to start this off by setting the what is the goal of PowerShell What do we think about every day? We tried to get it down to the traditional notion what is it we're trying to do this pretty much every day as what we're going to be working on. We want to improve the on operations tasks by This has three parts. The first is improve and I would say across that's the number one thing we think about, is the work that we're doing. What problem is it solving? Who's it for? How are Is their life better? Yes or no? If it's not, maybe it's not something we need so that improve the lives of Operations tasks allows We're not trying to the next language that will be where we see PowerShell people who are working But we also see lots and developers that are and so we want to be very friendly and open to You were seeing with the predictors, they may not even really using PowerShell or Is terminal Window when they click on and so we want that to be a great experience for anybody whether it's running, Git Last part just sums it up by I think you recently gave the that is super important, and I think a big part of where we see a lot of go is moving faster with a single amount of and so making things simple, bringing the context to the You shouldn't constantly your experience go figure out how We need to figure out these things so it's an &gt;&gt; Awesome. &gt;&gt; I wouldn't necessarily I would say this is These are directions we're headed, these are things I think about this as again, put this into something We just started building and lists of all of our ideas and some common clusters so this is traditional Bunch of things fell into a bucket that we decided to As you look at the predictors there is a ton of stuff, that there's almost no It's how do you make Predictors are a big one and we know which today we showed but we see a ton of predictors and making it extensible so that the world can go build whatever If somebody wants to create I think there's tons and Were also looking super close that natural language, 10,15 years ago, people were asking, and when PowerShell what does AI mean? What does machine-learning The time it was like, &quot;Well, you can run scripts via bots.&quot; The only answer we had, to see technology emerge where it becomes simple to convert from and when I say code, I think the opportunity is and if you go watch some of the he's got a module on his GitHub repo to work with the codex stuff We can put that in the link. As for follow-ups, it's I want you create a VM on and it writes the script that Like it's disturbingly accurate. Again, this isn't tomorrow we'll ship a feature will explore this area does it mean to bring artificial intelligence We wouldn't be using stuff it's just making that stuff smarter. Part of making it smarter, one of the things we really so Danny showed some things around CloudShell where it was a call command injection It's like I'm in a portal or I'm going to websites and you'll see this in and somehow I want to take the and he did it for SSH commands. He hit the button, it warned you, and then it brought the How do we interlink Because a lot of people go to things work and then figure It was like, how do you link these experiences in a way that I just figured this out, now I want to script it, how do I shortcut that I think that extends whether it's from docs to the shell or from the shell back to docs because you How do you make that bridge I actually think for enlightenment, this is a space where will put springs on our legs and push us into heights that we never I'm talking about things like and other tools like that where If you've used copilot and BS code, it's absolutely amazing, How do we work more closely we build on things like CloudShell? One of the great things when you go sign in, everything Well, can we have some notion of that available to you whenever you're using PowerShell We don't even know We want to go talk to you 100 What would you like if See what their answers figure out how to build That's a big area about first shell enlightenment. &gt;&gt; Awesome. &gt;&gt; Any questions? &gt;&gt; I have probably 1,000 questions, but it's things he talked If we look at some of of we write a script, what the heck does it do? We're terrible at writing comments and we need to create I've done this with When I write my Terraform there's an ad and a third party that will generate code's doing that document All these things that are write better commands I can think of a million things that would be amazing, What is useful to the normal person? I'm going to say normal person, your everyday user versus me who's off in the Cloud and where are their time crunches in their day, where they struggling. You're right, like how do but then learn how it works Because we have tools out there that generate templates How do you that for PowerShell? We can go search a repo, but how do we generate those things It's not just a command &gt;&gt; You nailed it. Those are the That's just a huge area. There's nothing out so we're just The second one is something that I was really came up again and again as each there was a sincere passion for what we eventually but what we really mean the people who are part of the PowerShell community to be a lot of people that you That could mean people from I'll just stick with any part of the world different languages and where But also one of the things that we keep coming back Predictors are amazing, but if you're using a screen reader, is it just going to those items in the list We've been meeting a lot with accessibility experts how could we make automation you're not someone that can type into it the way that we April, you mentioned neurodiversity. I think that fits into It sounds like you've been exploring &gt;&gt; Yeah, I have. Again, I've lived in different cultures. I work in a different culture from a very diverse melting Where people come in where English isn't but then also different life I've been in tech for 25 years. Then today I was speaking and they are so smart, but they don't use PowerShell. They don't quite know When you're teaching to I've learned this well, what about if something Well, why would I do that? I think it's just also The neurodiversity thing is huge. It's also how we process I never realized I had my own coping mechanisms for I was just like, this is how I am. It's no big deal, and I find that We work at different I'm a morning person, someone or someone might be a We write at different but our bodies work different ways, and I think it's great work on teams that can But yeah, we have such a and whether it's age there's so much that we use as a big overlaying but I think there is no normal. What I was told years it as a teenager, I I still am, but I was Normal is a dryer setting. There is literally I think that's a great I say that to young this and people that are a little bit longer in the tooth in Normal is literally a dryer setting. My career path wasn't normal. I was never a normal teenage. What is a normal teenager? I'm still not a normal adult, so normal is absolutely a dryer setting and I We all have such we bring that together and that's is that you have different Bring that experience, Let your voice be heard and I think Damian showed it I like blue, blue is nice. I don't like green. It gives us that opportunity to and find ways that we will help us do better &gt;&gt; Absolutely. I think struck me through all these sessions there were a couple the remoting part and all that. But what I realized is and we talked about this before. One is the PowerShell but then all of the Shell features where you don't even need to use PowerShell or to know that you but you still get a huge benefit. That to me is like, wow, this is really opening up to many not necessarily just the language, but all PowerShell can deliver. That to me is very exciting to see. &gt;&gt; You actually nailed As part of diversity, one of the things we're interested PowerShell a great place to On the latter half of what it's like it's the I think you did see all four to use their scenario with commands that aren't in the sense of like verb-now. It's not that we're That is an important part of but what if you want to run What if you want to get a that into some command that has you just happen to be running What if you want to wrap some other language use some other language and Today, there's a lot in both of those directions I don't know that we'll that in the next six It's something that's on our minds when we talk about some of that even just means other types of other development environments &gt;&gt; I think you've nailed it. I will bring up something that I was working on an engineering team and this one person is very Open source all the way. They use open source tooling and there was a discussion on Microsoft about PowerShell within and I got tagged into a conversation But the argument was, and this is again, back in the day, especially you were either a Windows We had this delineation and I'm a Linux person. No, I only do open source. Windows is terrible, don't use it. Then you had Windows people We had this silo within I went back to this person who's the open source it's no longer cool or a Mac person, or What's cool is to be cross-platform and that's why PowerShell is cool because it's cross-platform &gt;&gt; I love it. &gt;&gt; There was no response. The thing is this, mic drop, I'm out, but I think PowerShell emblazons this It is cool to love PowerShell and it doesn't matter It sounds a little cheesy, but the tool that brings our That's my hope, that's how I see it, that's how I talk about it, and that's why I say it's Cross-platform is where it's at. That's the new normal, if you can call it normal, but that's a new way forward, &gt;&gt; I love it. That's perfect. The only thing I had on this was there's a couple areas we meaning that we have made We don't have a direct plan of We're figuring out what does Whether it's finish what we started or expand upon it or take The three areas that I so certainly the top two meaning take another look at DSE. DSE is used all over We want to lean in on that even more and keep making that but also figure out where are fit and how do we There's like closing in on 1400 community DSE You can manage just about We recently published a new the help of the community that There's actually a DSE the open source and so there's a lot of can we expand that even further That's a big one. Then you heard Danny talk about SSH. That's a big area that We could talk for the the cool things you once you combine the notion of PowerShell remoting Those just make it really cool. Then the other thing we haven't is we're really how people collaborate and share as they are working through Whether it's building We see a lot of, you put something in the gallery, or you've got a private nougat feed, or you've got private Git but I think there's a little bit if you're working within a you've got a list of what does that end-to-end How do you want to share them? What's the easiest way onto your secure workstations This is just an area start picking out a little bit to figure out if there's more work I think configuration, remoting, and sharing is something like we could go back and &gt;&gt; Cool. I think also you talked about feedback Microsoft days of old, we've all been there for those in the industry for I won't admit my age again. &gt;&gt; We didn't have this in the infancy of PowerShell 2.0, to give this feedback What are the ways that What I want to say to if you took nothing else out of these amazing mind give feedback to the team. Michael, how do we How do we participate? How &gt;&gt; Well, I have a slide To connect with us, there's really, I just want to put it in focus three separate things. One is slack. We'll put all these links But there's actually a dedicated, I think it's powershell.slack.com. It is super active, I mean, every view check if throughout it's just tons and tons of people going out and helping It's amazing. We don't monitor it, but I know like for me personally, I've gotten notification setup. If somebody sends a I'm going to get a notification. It might take me a minute, but I'll come when called But I think that was It's an area where we like being able to get in even if you don't have and that stuff is important to us. If it is within the context we do monitor GitHub and One of the things we recently advocating with the we've got a standing and we call it community day, and we just go out and GitHub PR is its not that we're but that's at a point wanted to just allocate Engineers are going to be PRs are going to be We recently even just started going out to sites like StackExchange, StackOverflow, and looking happening out there and see if I would just say specific to a project GED or secrets management, that's the best place to go. Then we do have community calls. There's a community on right now for PowerShell. Then we also have a that happens every six weeks. The community call, I would say if you want to just have like what's going on, what are you working on, what do you see coming in the The community calls the Number 1 thing to join and it's really fun. I mean, we have a good time That happens the third It's easy to set a reminder and jump in and you It's fine to just join and listen in and see what's going &gt;&gt; Awesome. I know that, I know but the discord Channel as well. I know it's mostly community folks. But again, if you have and you're just banging which is pretty much every day. Discord channels is I don't monitor unless I'm I think there are so many different ways to and the PowerShell discord isn't the only way in which and that's why, like you said, you have that community day every week because that helps you prioritize all But we will put all the the PowerShell Slack, the and the community call data. We will get that out to we'll give you all the links join and definitely join even you can learn from other people. That's the biggest thing, someone else has had the you can solve it together and &gt;&gt; I love it. That's all for me. &gt;&gt; Often Michael? &gt;&gt; You guys have done a really unplugged today and I wanted to This has been fun. &gt;&gt; Well, thank you for allowing us. I have learned more about probably in the last five It was amazing. I'm Thank you so much for &gt;&gt; Yeah, absolutely. Thank you. It was a super awesome experience. Again, there's so much cool stuff so really looking forward to that. &gt;&gt; As we close this off, I'm actually going to bring so just for all of you on there, get your videos on, we're going I actually found the best line I loved how you said shell. I would love to end this awesome unplugged session with all seven of us go in, shell yeah. You guys ready? 3,2,1,. &gt;&gt; Shell yeah. &gt;&gt; Thanks, guys. &gt;&gt; Thank you very much.