Microsoft Copilot has a text field where you you type in directly affects the quality of the sure that what you enter is good? In this video, you can master Microsoft Copilot prompting to Let's dive in. First off, what even is a prompt? you use to tell Copilot what you want. It's go to a cookie store and tell them that you're except to maybe ask you, what's that cookie you don't give it enough information or details, I'm on copilot.microsoft.com. Simply navigate the link right up here. I want to pull together experiment with a few different prompts to see entering in the goal. My manager has asked me promoting one of our new cookies here at the Kevin I'll type in my prompt. I want marketing right-hand side, let's submit that to the Copilot. then again, I can't blame Copilot. Here it says, provide more details about what you need, and okay prompt, but we really need to give it more and context so it can help us with this request. Right down at the bottom, I have my original enough detail for the Copilot, so let's add some additional text. I want marketing copy for the cookie, the Double Chocolate Chip Cookie. It's for with us before and we'd like them to try this new to go on. So over on the right-hand side, let's already so much better. Here it knows that we're Here it formats the email and it knows that we're so it includes that in the message. Here it cookies. Now it calls out a 10% discount, but we Our cookies are that good. So, I'd probably go in a really good starting point. Now, honestly, this but if we want to make it even better, So, what do I mean by that? Well, better when they have some humor and they're It's true. We sell more cookies when we use simple expectations as part of our prompt? And let's I have the prompts that gave me this output and to continue refining it. So here at the very I'll add some additional text. Use simple language humor. And also, I feel like this is a little bit 200 words. Over here, let's send that to the AI. so much better. As I improve my prompt, we can see that it incorporated some humor. If touch. If we go down a little bit, it looks like should be able to read this. And we also see that don't like though, it says why you'll love it, and for these cookies. Now at the Kevin Cookie we've already brainstormed as a team, and I want that brings us to the last component that you below, I'll type in some text to incorporate I could specify a source document. Over here, and that'll now include it as part of my prompt. look at that, if we scroll up a little bit, it's and it's now incorporated them into this marketing best quality prompts in Copilot, make sure that Start with the goal, then add some context, set material that you want the Copilot to reference as prompt upfront, with just one go, or you could until you get what you want. There's really no the start of a conversation. As you get better at save time, and it's also easier to just get more Sometimes it's hard to know what Copilot can do prompts. In all the Microsoft 365 apps, like Word, if you click on the Copilot logo, that'll open where you can prompt the AI. But right up above, prompts that will give you some inspiration. For a presentation from a file. Maybe you have a Word a presentation. So maybe you just wanted to too. Now, these are just a few examples. If you that says View Prompts. When you click on this, it I'll click on Create. Again, you can create an some slides. That's just a few examples. Here, presentation. So again, you could summarize, like are there any dates or deadlines? Show me from this deck. You have those options. And here, of prompts. And down at the bottom, if you need View More Prompts. This opens up the Copilot lab. sorts of different prompts that you could use in you can even filter down to view specific down at the bottom, click on See All Prompts. That and it also lets you know what all is possible. And over on the right-hand side, in the Copilot help show you how you can use Copilot with Excel. Create. And here, you'll see different ways that generate formula column suggestions. You could add Here, I am in Outlook, and you'll see a completely you could have it draft an email. You could have bottom, I'll click on this icon. And we can see you how you can use Copilot in Outlook. Now, all and Copilot is fine-tuned to work within the using Copilot more and more, you likely won't you'll already know the power of Copilot and what field down below. My recommendation, just start results you can get back. The more you prompt, Copilot into your day-to-day workflows. If you're I highly recommend checking out the Copilot lab right up above and that'll take you there. You'll fantastic resource and well worth reviewing. And be sure to visit the Microsoft Copilot for the card right up above. These are training roles and functions like HR, finance, executives, you can find webinars and training events that in your everyday work. Best of all, they're you'll likely find one that suits your more videos like this one, please consider