All right, so how many of you have met somebody Yeah, all right, all right. And how many of you want to meet some more Yeah, easy, right? Because when you look around you, these are This is what you want to do. Now, there's a little a challenge that you We've got so many good people to connect with. And the challenge is first, how do you attract And here, it's a little bit easier because But what I mean is how do you attract the You know, you've come here to meet particular do you kind of put that signal out and attract The second challenge is really when you do connect with them really deeply? How do you get past kind of the small talk get in and connect with them in a deep way? And for both of these challenges, I would And for me, that solution is learning to use Now, when I say learn to use your energy, you, so let me explain what I'm talking about. If I say hand, most people think kind of like And we're used to looking at the world in and feel and take pictures of and so on. But a few of us are lucky enough to look at So when I see hand, I think more about energy, see the energy around the body too. And if this seems a little strange to you, I was just finishing up a double bachelor's was working for the Department of Energy and and I started seeing energy. And I don't mean like Department of Energy I mean, I started seeing auras, right? I started seeing light around people and I and I started knowing things that there's any background or information on. And you know, being kind of scientific minded, You know, first I thought, &quot;Wow, this is really You know, my superpowers are coming in.&quot; And then I thought, &quot;Wow, this is really scary right? And so I did probably what...you know, I did anybody what was going on with me. And I started to go into my career. I spent 15 years as a software engineer. But during that time, you know, during the studying everything I could find about energy. So I was reading books. I was watching, you know, videos. I was seeking out the best teachers that knew them, &quot;How do you do that? How can you teach me to do it more,&quot; because It just kind of happened sometimes, but I So this went on for a long time, 15 years not telling people what I did. And then 10 years ago, I decided to kind of I decided to stop hiding it from the world, different. I'm going to try to just go out and teach And I moved to Sedona, Arizona, because that's you know, a little bit easier to come out But it was...this was a new business. I didn't have any capital to start it. The tech bubble had just burst and I'd lost you know, worth zero, and so I was thinking, And the one thing I did have going for me energy. So I started to just follow that and I'm going but what happened was over the years, I was a six-figure business, without using any kind And what I was doing was just looking at how how do I send that message out, kind of, you way. And it's very, very powerful. Now, what I learned in these 10 years of teaching useful. So there's no area that I can think of that So if you've got something in your health, in your career, definitely you want to take but if you take the energy actions too, you So it's basically what you're doing is you're that's already there and then your physical So you end up being a lot more efficient. You don't have to do all the things that you You just do kind of the, you know, the lazy faster. Now the second thing I learned is that everybody And it seems a little bit funny, that I was of people and I haven't found anybody yet So with a little bit of practice and some getting it right or wrong, you can learn to and some people can smell energy. And it's, you know, it's something that's doing it already, even if you don't know. So I also learned that we only learn through So you know, I believe the things I believe of, you know, bend reality a little bit, I working with energy. But if you don't have an experience, if you me telling my story, it doesn't really mean yourself. And that's what I want to give you today is work. And so I picked the thing that I thought was is again how to connect with people, how to communicate well when that happens. So when you're looking at how to attract the It's just three little steps. First thing you're going to do is you're going that you want to send to those people. Now this might be something really simple, Allen and I want to connect with people that work.&quot; So maybe that's my intention. But you could have a bigger intention too. If I'm launching a new product, I'm going the people in the country I'm targeting and and, you know, meet me wherever I am.&quot; And once you have this message down, your with all these people. And I'm going to teach you a little energy And then once you've connected, of course, And I'll just show you kind of how this looks because if you can see energy, I know it doesn't I draw a cartoon, you're not going to take So the first thing you want to do is this And for that, what you're going to do is you're energy your attention right around your body. And so I'm talking, you can just kind of practice your energy back and feel it around you. The second step where you're going to connect, to do is you need to expand yourself to the So in the exercise today, I want you to do the right people right now. So today, for the rest of the day at A-fest, the perfect people for me? And so for that size group, you just need about the size of this room. So an easy way to do that is to just imagine like up here, and you've got this 360-degree that you want to reach. Now you could do this for a whole country You could be above a country or above a, you Now, it'll work that way too. Now, once you've done that, you're just going So in this case, you're going to just imagine your crown chakra, that you're sending that And then you're going to watch and see which of notice little lights going on around the light up that are the perfect person for me Now, very simple exercise but you're going results with this. And I'll give you a couple examples. So for me, anytime I'm traveling somewhere, I was moving into Japan to teach workshops, out to everybody and I said, &quot;Hi, I'm Jeffrey and it's going to be in May and here's the And something really funny happened. When I got to Japan, on the break in my first me and said, &quot;The reason I came to your workshop I remember this curly-haired guy and you said energy and about two weeks later, I opened and I knew I had to come to this workshop.&quot; And I was surprised because people don't usually I also had a woman come over from... I was doing the same thing to get clients I had a woman come from Europe and she said She actually said, &quot;You...&quot; She looked like kind of shocked when she saw and you told me your name and that you lived And first you scared the crap out of me and...but And I told her, I said, &quot;I don't remember send that message out and, you know, I'm sorry found me in Sedona.&quot; And so this really works. I want you to play with this today, but also When you're looking for people, do the energy effective. Okay, so your next step. So now that you know these people are going challenges of kind of that awkward beginning even that, you know, kind of graceful ending. And if you felt that kind of awkward energy, So if you feel a little bit funny in a conversation, bit off,&quot; and you're feeling energy, so right And I want to give you kind of a more detailed right. So when you're talking to somebody, this is of like seven main communication channels You've got your spirit and your mind and your passion or your power and your body. And when you meet somebody, like they're just you, and what happens there is as soon as right here. So your spirits start to say hello and this &quot;Wow, I just...I don't know why but I'm so you more,&quot; and there's this big kind of something spirit saying hello. Now the next thing that happens is the bodies And when the bodies say hello, it sounds a it's a little bit more like, &quot;Hey, baby.&quot; You know, this kind of energy. And again, this is normal. So if this lasts for more than five minutes, But you know, if it's just...if it's happening the bodies are saying hello. And then hopefully what happens next is you And if you're in a real deep conversation, start to connect, okay? And you're going to talk on all these different And if you don't do that, what you'll see yourself, you're not actually reaching out is you're going to seem a little bit aloof, And so then you just want to kind of imagine The opposite can also happen where you're you're going to see them, you know, pretty It's all about me, I'm just talking, my energy's And again, if you feel that or you feel that imagine, you know, kind of visualize you're And this works fantastic. So when you do that, again, let's assume that in all these different levels, and at some of fade. The energy will start to fade out. The conversation starts to die. And you really want to follow that energy. So instead of trying to like hang on to the to say, &quot;Okay, it looks like it's time to We're still talking but there's not much connection I want to move on to my next right person.&quot; And when you do that, you want to have your mode, so you're still just kind of maintaining you're talking to this other person. Now sometimes, that doesn't happen. Sometimes what happens is the person leaves with that person. And this is when you start to feel lonely And if this happens, again you just want to and, you know, have your chakras in this self-sufficient And I'm teaching you this because this is deeply and to kind of adjust when you're in So let's give it a try. You've basically got these two different modes, connecting well with somebody and then you've just by yourself and you're feeling good and So I want you to all stand up right now. We're going to try it out. So I want you to practice this. So this simple technique, even though you're how your energy is actually working in the And if you visualize something that's similar, Okay, so congratulations, now you're all official You've graduated and so you know how to use and remember, you can do this on any scale. You can attract people from across the world And I recommend you do it at least once a practice and see if it works out for you. And second, you've learned how to connect just your words. And this works remotely too, so you can talk the same connection. And I just want to leave you with one final use, just visualizing what you want, what So is there some place in your health or your can use energy to create a difference? Or maybe you just want to make a little more How would you use energy? Because I've tried all of that and I can tell Everything is possible with energy. [music]