Hey Seraphine here! Today, we're going to talk about the science Japanese milk bread made with Yudane or Tangzhong, Shoku is the Kanji for food or eating, pan for bread, so, shokupan is a Japanese neologism Since almost all recipes of Shokupan incorporate think of it as a milk bread, but... what makes In shape, Shokupan is identical to the long bread. Now, don't judge a bread by its appearance, western white breads when it comes to the Thanks to the incorporation of gelatinized and melt-in-your-mouth texture. As we bite into it, we can appreciate the from the wheat flour. Shokupan's natural sweetness is different to the fact that it contains a very high amount Here are the numbers for how much naturally when compared to those without. In this study, for Yudane 40, 23 mg more of While maltose isn't as sweet as sucrose, that's Roughly calculating maltose as half as sweet be considered to be as sweet as 11.5 mg of of sugar per 200 grams of flour, 65% hydration, 40 in such a bread recipe can bring out about sugar, and what makes it particularly remarkable time. Adding to that, Shokupan also retains its why it stays fresh and lasts longer. Judging by its global popularity, this bread can count me as one, therefore this video. So, now let's set out to explain the many First, I'm going to walk you through the of course, it's going to be based on science; the process of making this great Japanese Now, for the recipe. Since we're going to be using these ingredients, to use. I write my recipes using a spread sheet that so, what you see here are snapshots of my We are going to make a loaf bread with this This column is for the weight of the ingredients, estimated and ideal baker's percentage. If you are using a baking pan of different baker's percentage to scale up or down, very easily. For this recipe, we use Yudane 20. What this means is that we are using 20% of the Yudane. The hydration level for optimal dough development We're going to use this number as the upper It's not like we can't go beyond that, so, we're staying below this hydration. Now, to make a loaf bread using this pullman 540 to 600 g. These numbers are the results of numerous pan. The numbers translate to 257 g/liter to 286 I have compared these numbers against the by Raymond Calvel, and the discrepancy can have a lower specific volume than those without. Assuming there isn't that much ingredient for this type of dough, the dough weight can Taking into consideration that during baking other factors, in our case, it's usually bread to come out weighing around 500 g to With these guidelines in place, we can move in the list. Let's start with the salt. Salt flavors the bread, both by adding its in the bread. Salt is pretty fantastic, but only when used Too much salt doesn't only interfere with salt diet can also have harmful effects on extremely popular staple food makes it even used in bread. Therefore, for this milk bread, we wanted recommended by this paper published on the Government guidelines in UK also advise that per 100g, which in our recipe translates to Now, as you might know, salt also affects too little salt can lead to a slack dough. Fortunately, though, following the guidelines for making good bread, since the percentage from Maher et al, we learn that "adding characteristics of the dough, especially when Now, although the paper mentions 1.5 % of quoting another line from the paper, "The due to changes in gluten hydration," and content of the flour. The experiment in the paper was done using with a protein content of 11.31%, while we so, we need to adjust it a bit, 13 divided 1.7 baker's percentage, which is how much Now, from here, we can actually immediately are going to use, since we know the amount make a Shokupan with this specific pullman We set aside 60g, or 20%, for our gelatinized dough takes care of the rest. To give you a heads-up, in this video I am interchangeably to refer to the gelatinized of gelatinized starch I'll call it either Now, before we move on to the other ingredients the effect of adding tangzhong on the overall this subject extensively before but most of of starch gelatinization, this time we're on the gluten proteins. A quick refresher on some basic biology, proteins amino acids. The primary structure of a chain of amino to form a more complex three-dimensional shape. In this form it is technically said to be wheat proteins are ball-like in shape, they When a globular-protein molecule is unfolded This could happen due to change in hydration, treatment. When we mix water and flour, the molecules This chain reaction enables their components network. This network consists of many types of bonds, If the conformation of some of the gluten like how it is in a tangzhong or yudane dough, processes is also changed and therefore the The effects of different levels of denatured have been extensively studied. From this paper... we learned that yudane bread has some issues the lower gas retention of the dough, it can't yudane. The dough also requires a longer proofing Additionally, citing numerous references, was denatured at 50degC and the starch in the the paper points out that these temperatures the preparation of yudane. In another paper on this, quoting Naito et of the yudane dough "became significantly method." To get better insights on the rheology of information from this impressive and extensive From her dissertation, roughly translated, the flour used for tangzhong have been denatured in the formation of gluten network of the Therefore, as the proportion of flour for proteins that can contribute to the formation hence we get a weakened dough, technically parameters of the farinograph readouts, such time, lower stability and valorimeter values, mixing time, tolerance to mixing and strength we expected, the results from her extensive of a tangzhong dough actually increases with She speculated that it's due to the tangzhong gelatinization process. So, when it's added to the dough, it takes and water to form a dough, so the arrival Technical facts aside, thanks to her extensive requires a longer mixing time to come together time which means that it can't maintain its same dough without tangzhong, another way to mixing. That's point number one. She also showed that the proofing time is that the proportion of flour used for tangzhong Any additions of Tangzhong higher than this in terms of the specific volume and also bread Some of this has been confirmed by other researchers she provided additional information that for increase in the proportion of retrograded So definitely something to avoid. In this recipe, we are using yudane 20, and volume as demonstrated in the papers, but sweeter result, which will be even more wonderful so let's look at them next. In this recipe, we use a half a teaspoon of Salt has a retarding effect on fermentation, have to change yeast level to maintain the There are many types of instant yeast, from the standard one. From our experience of regularly baking this method, we know that this amount of instant of bulk fermentation and roughly 60-120 minutes 25degC to 29degC. 6%, baker's percentage, has been quoted Coming from this paper on the effect of sucrose "contrary to non-sugared dough, gas production according to flour water absorption." Another interesting finding from the paper was constant in dough containing up to 6% was much inhibited by osmotic pressure from extent, lack of water in dough." It's important to note that the total gas to depend on the hydration in comparison to What it basically says is that since we're enough water in the dough, otherwise the dough Well, you don't need to worry about it here we definitely have no issues with the hydration for this bread. We're also counting on the natural sweetness are going to bring in. We expect that by using the minimal amount up by the yeast, so we are left with predominantly the flour, quoting from the paper, sugared residual sugars; half of it was maltose and glucose." Okay, at this point, we know our bread will sugar and salt, but what about the issue of bread? Let's add milk. We're going to limit the water replacement information provided by this paper, so, that here. As I have mentioned before in our previous flavor, milk has been shown to increase water better elastic response, this is, of course, The milk has also been known to raise the expect the milk to cause any issues when it Whole milk, like the one we use in this recipe, Fat modifies both the baking process and the in this reference, to produce an optimum texture loaf bread, although more can be used for The tenderizing effect of fat also slows down bonus for our shokupan bread, bread volume up to 5%, after that it remains roughly constant. This has to do with the fact that a dough in the oven then a dough without. In this recipe, we go as high as around 6% the butter and the milk, this gives us a soft exactly what we want. As our final ingredient, we add 50 g of a Eggs increase the dough strength and its stability, for since it pairs well with the tangzhong. Eggs also contribute a small amount of fat So, we have our shokupan recipe, ready for Now, this is an &quot;ideal&quot; recipe, it's based follow the steps and adjust the timing to going to get a delicious, fluffy, and strong That being said, in the end, taste and preferences of a specific ingredient, or less for that be prepared for the dough and resulting bread With that, let's get started with the recipe. Our first step is to make the tangzhong. We have 60 grams of bread flour in a small 120 grams of boiling hot water into a medium flour, and mixing it all together with a wooden course. You could also use a spatula if you'd like, easier to work with. We'll cover this for now, and let it cool overnight. While resting it overnight is actually an natural sweetness and improve the bread's For more information on tangzhong and its on it. Anyways, here is the tangzhong after its night bread dough. Beginning with a proper mise en place, so in, we're going to first drop in the Tangzhong, 50 g of milk, 18 grams of sugar, 1/2 tsp of instant yeast, Just tap it all in. On the side, we've also prepared 15 grams has developed a little gluten, so we'll just Alright, let's give this mixture a good stir, mixer, starting on a low speed, we'll let and prevent the flour from flying, and then mix for 4 minutes. At the end of it we should have a dough that We'll turn the mixer back on, and give that We're not using that much butter so it should As explained before, Tangzhong dough requires tolerance to over mixing, so, when the dough of the bowl is pretty clean, that means the itself together, we immediately switch off Of course, we can do a quick windowpane test it thin enough, and look at that, just beautiful. Now, because a well-developed tangzhong dough cannot stretch it too thin like what you can There's no need to spread it too thin, rest is well developed, so now, with some vegetable we want to get the dough out of the stand rounding it out a bit just in our hands, and it ferment now, and we've got a cool tip for you just use your scraper and push the dough look like. So, since we know what it should look like, Then we're going to let it ferment for 1 hour what we saw just now, the timing may vary Ok, when the dough's doubled in size, we'll We'll start off by removing the cover, and Alright, now we're gonna flour our work surface, very high so it should be manageable with Then we're gonna give the dough a very satisfying Yes, it's very fun, and then we'll gather work surface. We wanna fold it in, and round the dough into equal pieces with the help of a scale, just This should be a pretty quick process, and to preshape them into little round boules, we're going to roll it out after this. When we're done preshaping, we'll cover the rest, just give the gluten in it some time It might tear if we don't do this, so we're needs. In the meantime, we're going to prepare our coating, we've got some pre-made here, but oil instead. Make sure to line every nook and cranny, we crust to come out, not a patchy shokupan. Alright, the dough's nice and relaxed, we Grab a rolling pin and one of our little dough a long rectangle, using a little flour here also want to pull the edges, make them more it'll look a lot tidier if we do this. When it's about 35 cm long, we're going to we're going to quickly just repeat what we We wanna make sure that the 2 turn out looking when we roll them up, we get similar looking Using a small amount of flour here and there, clinging. Then when they're both like this, we're going Taking one, we're going to fold in the sides the middle line, before folding the other and straight. We're also using the rolling pin to even it that up, doing a little tug back after every Just keep rolling all the way up, and when seal the seam. And we're done shaping this dough ball, you we'll put it down for now, and get to rolling So just the same thing, the key is really roll, of course, you don't need to worry too pan, we're just making sure we get a nice Okay, now, we have both rolls shaped, we want the maximum rise, we want to arrange them So, you can see how this roll has a swirl other roll so that its swirl goes counterclockwise. Very easy, we just arrange them and then place the lengthwise axis of the pullman pan. You may want to give them a small push to And here, my hand actually swiped the sides of that non-stick coating on it, and great. We'll now cover the pan and leave the dough to fill the pan up to just below the rim, here. It may take longer for you due to temperature on the dough, also remember, final proofing bit longer from regular dough. Before the dough is done proofing, make sure oven to 190degC. Okay, our oven and the dough fluffy dough, perfect, it's time to bake the We're going to put it in immediately with top and bottom heat for 15 minutes, before bake for another 20 minutes. The timing and temperatures may vary for different your own situation. This time, we're baking the dough with the flat top, but you could bake it open, you and if you see it browning too fast, you could With that, our shokupan is done! It looks gorgeous, smells amazing, and makes This bread, as mentioned, actually tastes already tastes amazing from the get-go. And that's it for this video, thanks for watching