Hello, Welcome to my Channel. 1 teaspoon of salt. (5g) 1 glass of water. (200ml) 2.5 cups all-purpose flour. Add (280 g) slowly, the amount of flour may vary. Let's knead a soft dough that slightly sticks to the hand. Let's sprinkle flour on the surface and knead the dough for 5 minutes. As I start my recipe, I would be very happy if you write in the comments which country and city you are watching me from. Let's cover the dough and let it rest for 10 minutes. Let's divide the dough into 4 equal parts. Let's cover the dough and let it rest for 5-10 minutes. Let's sprinkle flour on the surface and roll out the dough thinly as in the video. My Dear Followers, I am preparing wonderful recipes for you. I would be very happy if you support me by turning on notifications and watching my videos until the end. Let's pour 100 g of melted butter and spread it all over. Let's roll out all the dough thinly, spread it on top of each other and oil it. Let's grease the last layer. Let's stretch the dough and roll it out a little. Let's wrap the dough not too tightly. Let's cover it and cool it in the refrigerator for 1 hour or in the freezer for 30 minutes. Let's slice it 2 fingers thick. Let's sprinkle flour on the surface and roll out the dough to 1 cm thick. Let's shape it as in the video with 2 breakfast knives. Let's put grated white cheese in between and close it. Let's put oil on them. Let's cook it in a controlled oven at 190 degrees for 20-35 minutes. If you liked my recipe, you can support me by commenting and liking. Enjoy your meal. Thank you very much for watching this far. As I start my recipe, I would be very happy if you write in the comments which country and city you are watching me from. 1 glass of warm water. (200ml) 1 teaspoon of yeast. (2 g) 2.5 cups all-purpose flour. Let's add (275 g) slowly, the amount of flour may vary. 1 teaspoon of salt. (5g) Let's knead a soft dough that slightly sticks to the hand. Let's knead the dough for 5 minutes. Let's divide the dough into 3 equal parts. Let's cover the dough and let it rest for 10 minutes. Let's sprinkle plenty of flour on the surface. Let's roll out the dough thinly. If you watched my video this far, I would be very happy if you helped me grow by subscribing to my channel. Let's pour 130 g of melted butter and spread it. Let's roll out the second dough to the same size and spread it on top. Let's grease it. Let's roll out the third dough and spread it on top. Let's grease it. Let's sprinkle 1 bowl of grated white cheese on it. Let's sprinkle 2-3 sprigs of finely chopped green onion. Let's shape it like in the video. Let's grease it. Let's fold it. Let's grease it. Let's thin it slightly by pressing it with our hands. Let's wrap it tightly in the form of a roll. Let's thin it out by pressing on it. Let's roll out the dough into a tray size of 28-30 centimeters. Let's pour oil on it and rub it all over. Let's cook it in a controlled oven at 200 degrees for 25-35 minutes. If you liked my recipe, you can support me by commenting and liking. Enjoy your meal. Thank you very much for watching this far. As I start my recipe, I would be very happy if you write in the comments which country and city you are watching me from. 1 teaspoon of sugar. (5g) 1 teaspoon of yeast. (4g) 2 cups of warm water. (500ml) 7.5 cups all-purpose flour. Let's add (830 g) slowly. 1.5 teaspoons of salt. (7g) Let's knead a soft dough that slightly sticks to the hand. Please watch the video until the end to avoid missing the ins and outs of the Recipe. Let's knead the dough for 7-8 minutes. Let's divide the dough into 18 equal parts. If you watched my video this far, I would be very happy if you helped me grow by subscribing to my channel. Let's cover the dough and let it rest for 20 minutes. Let's sprinkle flour on the surface. Let's roll out the dough thinly. Let's pour 220 g of melted butter and spread it. Let's fold and oil the dough as in the video. Let's wrap the dough tightly in the form of a roll. Let's put it aside and let it rest. Let's prepare all the dough in the same way. Let's prepare all the dough, cover them and let them rest for 10 minutes. Let's roll out the rested dough to a size of 12-13 centimeters. Let's put oil on them. Let's cook it in a controlled oven at 185 degrees for 35-40 minutes. If you liked my recipe, you can support me by commenting and liking.