- I want to do something, or hate, it's indifferent, or it's okay, or it's fine. Just doesn't, it's not (inspiring classical music) Hi, Nikki. Yeah, click, don't clap. - [Interviewer] Mark, the youngest designer to ever win the CFDA Perry Ellis Award, creative director at Perry Ellis at 25, had your own namesake label before 30. Not to mention you were of Louis Vuitton for 16 years. - Yes. - [Interviewer] What's the secret? How do you get people - I don't know. I think I've been very fortunate to meet people who believe in me, and who not only believe in me, but when things get rough, stand by me. So that's just been incredible luck. - [Interviewer] When do you feel like your career really began? - I started at pursuing at a boutique called Charivari on the Upper West Side in working as a stock boy and then a salesperson. I met a lot of people in the New York, you know, So when the Parson show happened and I met Robert Duffy, with how it all worked. - [Interviewer] Tell you met Anna Wintour. - Well, she probably but the first time I met her, I was probably 18 years old, and I was like, oh, wow, She's this big fashion editor. But that was kind of it. And I probably said hello, and then went about And that was our first meeting. - [Interviewer] How has - I mean, a lot of people say but I think she has an I know that when I was you know, she took me to lunch and very, in Anna form, she to play tennis or as an alternative to doing drugs, which I just smiled about, you know? It was like, bless her heart. Yeah, if it were only that easy. But she was helpful and, you So I was willing to, I had the ability to hear her, you know. In terms of fashion, she has a very strong - [Interviewer] Let's How do you reflect on your - My first collection there and I felt it really referenced the spirit in which I felt Perry and his team had. And a lot of people didn't but Anna Wintour had just moved to Vogue. She and her team did. And so it felt like the old of all about what Perry had become, felt very differently than the New Guard, which felt like, doesn't really matter. We like what he's doing kind of thing. And so I guess I tried that it should be more adult and more about clothes that And that was just a losing battle. So I gave up on that battle. And that of course led to this confidence that I felt was inspired by or the grunge scene. And also the types of models You know, like Kate Moss and photographers, like Jurgen Teller, David Sims, Corin Day. People loved it and people hated it. And I really kind of enjoyed I thought, well, that's - [Interviewer] Off the runway, you've had a lot of different eras in your own personal style. Which one felt the most like who you are? - All those eras of mine They feel like where I'm at at that time. - [Interviewer] What era - I think we're on my nail I never know the name of that thing where you have the magnifying what you know, and you can - [Interviewer] Oh, the Explore page. - Yeah, explore page. So this thing came up and it was this young boy and he was acting really and doing kind of stuff like that. And I just thought like, that's I really want to do that for the Met. Like, I want to wear Long Nails to young me watching my mother or her friends putting on their makeup, getting their nails done, with Long Nails, or seeing, I mean, there's just so many but it wasn't something And I thought, that, I can that, and I'm gonna have fun with it. And so I did my first, you know, foray into the nail, long I always try to find a way And again, usually the answer is always, what am I gonna wear? What am I gonna do? How Like, it's gotta be of like getting dressed up for the Met, you know? - [Interviewer] The black lace dress. - Yes, for instance. - [Interviewer] Pharrell the house that you built. - I love Pharrell. He's very sweet. Pharrell believes truly that I you know, there just weren't people around that would do that. I don't give what I do or what me and my team did quite as I think I just did what - [Interviewer] While of the most iconic What inspired those collaborations? - I'm so often in my head, and I was struggling really to find a logic for why I was And so I kind of, I looked and '30s, there was a between artists like AU and or Picasso, Chanel, This idea of a society of with each other and exchanged ideas. And so I thought, well, maybe that's it. Maybe my role here, as I'm Marc Jacobs at Louis Vuitton. Maybe the idea is that I bring in people and I exchange ideas with them, and together we make something happen. - [Interviewer] Who is time that you would like - Takashi Murakami. Takashi was really, really, really special in the work that we did. The way he described it. He would call it catch ball, I think, where it was like, he would throw me back his idea, and then I would throw back And it went back and forth and 'cause that to me is I mean, I would love to but he's no longer here. We are doing a collaboration 'cause Stephen had gifted me a piece that we've been using. - [Interviewer] We talked a but in New York you were also running your own label. Why do both? - Well, I couldn't turn of doing Louis Vuitton, and I did at the time I loved living there. And I think there was this American or from New York. I just thought like, well, that's it. You know, a young New at this legendary house. - [Interviewer] Your own label and fragrance with Daisy - Yeah. - [Interviewer] Can you of the story of Daisy's creation? - I had a dog named Daisy, who is named after Daisy Buchanan my favorite book. And then I thought about and it's a flower that It represents a spirit. So it was very easy for me you know, it was outdoors. It had like a kind of freedom to it. And then we worked on the fragrance. The woman, I don't remember you know, tried to this romantic story I was But, you know, all I want - [Interviewer] Why do you do what you do? - I like being constantly curious. I like refusing in some ways to get old. The idea of age not mattering. And I think at the end of the day, I do what I do because I love it. And it's not just for you. (inspiring classical music)