NARRATOR: Caught on tape in a stunning act of violence A run-in between lions this is the first time Leo: Look at the NARRATOR: Like a the assault sends survivors bodies battered. Filmmaker Leo Kuenkel and is trying to Was this a once in a Or do these iconic African sinister reason to The players in this incredible on the African scene. The perps: lions. King of the cats and Hunting the biggest prey... challenging the most and commanding the most They also have great hair! Cheetahs are the marks in this They're top hunters but often considered the Their thin, lanky bodies and not power. They can do 0 to 50 in And reach top speeds But they lack the firepower and generally choose flight The scene: Ndutu, a compact, famous Serengeti. It's home a tough neighborhood cheetahs, leopards They come for the and a permanent water source dry season. Witness to the attack is Leo has been living and filming decades, and is But in all his years he's never seen an It's an attack so and so unexpected he's invited Craig Packer Leo: It's such a long time, huh? NARRATOR: Craig is studying the the other side of the Serengeti. Leo hopes he can shed light on Base camp for the investigation Leo: Craig, I would like you and I thought I got NARRATOR: On the Leo was out filming on the when he gets an urgent Leo: She called me on the something very NARRATOR: Rushing he arrives just Three male cheetahs are hot on coming into heat. They've been pursuing Trying to keep her close They're also competing with Leo: These are three territorial your guys. NARRATOR: One of his guys who's just appeared But the testosterone-fueled impressed. Craig is surprised by the lion approaches. Craig: It looked like he but it's very clear that I've never seen a cheetah Leo: I've never Usually, cheetahs would simply that situation. But this guy put up a really And that lion is three NARRATOR: It's a macho Craig: It's definitely and then he kind of realizes, I just threatened a lion. NARRATOR: The female cheetah Three randy males are bad on a lion as well. Feeling threatened, she's taken Leo: And up there you which has tried to escape from cheetahs. NARRATOR: Cheetahs often they're scanning for prey, Leo: She was standing I could see her legs, they were she was watching the lion the three males. NARRATOR: Terrified, the female Leo: And when she saw a chance, there, jumped down and then and all we could do then is to males were also chasing her, I revved up the engine but they were so fast it was those guys. NARRATOR: By the time he catches The males have tracked the in a bush. They're so intent they cast their coalition fiercely for her attention. Craig: It's like they got this instead of making a they're really rude and they really try to grab them. So presumably they're trying to her before she moves NARRATOR: The males are Leo: And now is when she protested and they NARRATOR: In their excitement, they're still being stalked. The lion is following...albeit Leo: They were calling and and fighting each other that lion. NARRATOR: Leo was as Leo: I was filming, and suddenly on the lion came in and I was very he rushed in. NARRATOR: Somehow positioned maelstrom, filmmaker Leo Kuenkel to a brutal attack. NARRATOR: Three male cheetahs bush, and the group is now male lion. As the male cheetahs the frightened female, Leo: The lion came out with that time you could tell Craig: He's crushing her skull; lion cubs. NARRATOR: It's a gruesome hit. But strangely, the male Leo: And those guys are fighting killing the female. What an incredible situation. NARRATOR: Right the male cheetahs continue the attention of their dead still on the prowl. Leo can't believe Not even in his wildest conceived of an event like this. And what he didn't know at the getting started. Seeing the attack on tape, Craig Craig: Typically what I see the cheetahs skedaddle. NARRATOR: There's no simple should feel the need to track who were minding Before getting to the Craig wants some background on Craig: So this is the three Leo: Yeah, this is the They would have say four or five years old. NARRATOR: The three who had stayed together when Cheetah males form these chances of getting and A good range means lots of prey, more females, who travel worthy mates. When a female enters the males try to assess If she is, they'll keep on her Leo: I've seen a male cheetah it's a very short, very She crouches down, he grabs her hard, as if he wants and they basically part Craig: And he may Leo: Never see her NARRATOR: With mates and quality competition between cheetah Skirmishes between sometimes leading to Once dominance is established, The losers beat a careful, In the case of Leo's cheetahs, territory, it's blood brothers There's no doubt that can distraction, but Leo has never such blatant disregard This one-of-a-kind video is just how irresistible a female her suitors can get. Leo: What's puzzling is how their brain in such a way that I mean, something must something strong. NARRATOR: Their testosterone to mate all-consuming. It's putting them in danger, explanation for the Craig is not so sure the same strange behavior. He's not looking for Craig: So right here he's making so this is the way they would their territory. NARRATOR: But Craig sees of dominance. He thinks brothers like this things to do than harass Most males of their stature over new prides, or protecting advances of other males. These clashes can be vicious. Male lions have been known to The battles are winner take and, most importantly, females. The victors get mating rights to the next generation of lions. Sadly, it's not a happy When a takeover succeeds, the the most brutal acts They chase down and kill pride males. It's a grizzly but effective way be passed on. And, it's the quickest way in heat. With such high stakes it's amazing Leo's lion the cheetahs-exhibiting apparent gain. Craig: This is a very NARRATOR: As Craig scrolls he's intrigued by the lion's Craig: Usually, it's NARRATOR: Lions are especially during Yet, he's just watched this the blazing sun, dive headlong then crush the skull of Now, he's going and he's about to get some help. NARRATOR: For this determined He's got one cheetah down, What Craig hasn't seen a hint that trouble. That's the big mystery he Craig: See I don't think there's want to remove cheetah from an the habitat is so different. The lions like to stay in hidden and they don't actually NARRATOR: Though they patrol the two predators have very so they're not even Lions use their strength, size boys-buffalo, zebra, wildebeest and even giraffes. Their hunts are masterpieces on masse... or exhibitions of pure power Cheetahs, on the other They lack a lion's instead relying on their their prey. On the open plains, they use their long hind legs and massive forward thrust. Their technique works. They actually take down close to after a far higher But for the most part, lions the prey cheetahs hunt. Too small. Not worth the effort. And, usually, too fast What lions will do is steal it's killed. This is a primary point of But it's never an even fight. Cheetahs have no chance against And lions aren't Cheetahs often lose kills to before they can eat their fill. It's for this reason Craig cheetahs as competitors Why Leo's video is so Craig: It makes no sense to me animal that can capture gazelle. NARRATOR: To the contrary, he cheetahs around. Craig: The cheetah is a If I were a smart lion, I 'cause then they NARRATOR: But if why is this lion so intent in Africa's dwindling He's already killed the female, back to the oblivious males, amazement-are showing no concern Is there something Some reason the cheetahs for their lives? Leo: They used to be the best this deadly fight going on. Craig: So this is Leo: This is within seconds, from where the lion and then these guys fighting a dead female. NARRATOR: It's as if they If anything, they become And even less concerned about or lions... because the threat The first lion, a bit the female, is quietly joined Leo: He was still fresh. He was still curious. NARRATOR: More The cheetahs scramble then quickly resume their It's a bad move, and NARRATOR: With their mate threatening lions the male cheetahs have every Instead, they continue as if nothing has happened. They're playing and the new arrival wants After his initial exploratory Craig: Whoa... Leo: Isn't that incredible? I didn't believe it when I saw And now look-the two lions are Craig: No, it's incredible, Leo: He's using all his to kill that cheetah. Craig: He's doing a good job. NARRATOR: As if the Leo and his wife were able to cameras. Watching the attack Craig marvels at the Craig: Look how he uses his and curl it in. He's grabbing him, he's holding he can, he needs to get Once he does that then But then the way the other guy end, that's like a gang So they're obviously treating animal. And they're not going to eat NARRATOR: They do that while still keeping track of Incredibly, it takes yet another to head for safer ground. And even then, the Not completely satisfied, one of cheetah. For Leo, who has known these the violence is hard to watch. And he still can't believe that the agile cheetah couldn't Until, he notices something Something he hadn't noticed the horrific attack. Leo: One has to realize that they can easily outrun any lion a situation like that. NARRATOR: But in this case, the Leo only sees the anomaly when slow motion. There is something peculiar Leo: It looks to me as This cheetah there Craig: Could be. He's slow to get up; he in his back end. Leo: You see what I mean? Craig: Yeah, maybe, See the lack of acceleration; the front, but not in the back. NARRATOR: The question he got injured? Was it an old injury, or a fresh Craig: So I think what happens He's coming over to join the he's not well, he's The other one comes in, he stays so he stays down, and this is This is the one you've got, and catches up, that's That's the one, that's NARRATOR: But did the or was he already hurt when Leo: Could it also be that eventually killed the female, he NARRATOR: Two of the males but the other takes longer to Craig: So one possibility is at the male as he goes I think that might Leo: Could be the case, yeah. NARRATOR: Whether it was dodging other cheetahs, the soon-to-be to sustain a hit. And the injury-however it was inability to escape. But it still doesn't solve why the lions were so committed the first place. Unless...the lions were just their true mortal And if they had the violence might be warranted. NARRATOR: The video shot by He's documented lions versus has, which is why the events But both Leo and Craig are interact with the and believe these relationships to understanding the attack. Although their survival we think of lions as the top And they are. Proud, powerful, deadly. But just because they're bigger doesn't mean they Enemies who are willing to their favor. It's an aspect of lion life been studying extensively at not far from Ndutu. Leo hopes their results might about the rare The team is trying to coexist...or don't, Led by graduate Craig's study uses camera interactions. Ali: We have 200 cameras set which is 1000 square kilometers. And we have so many a few pictures can give us animals are doing, but hundreds And these trees seem to catch Like this one tree has cheetahs and hyenas. Huh, hyenas...ah, NARRATOR: Like surveillance store, the traps reveal the the local residents. The hyenas are the Ali: There's an aardvark Um, hyenas after NARRATOR: Hyenas outnumber lions Africa...and are quick their advantage. They even go after It's easier to take out competition can fight back. This infanticide is a large part mortal enemies. It's also at the heart of Like cheetahs, leopards often adult lions. So they try to pick off cubs Lions are quick to They'll kill any leopard they their own young. Craig believes lions might for leopards to other Craig: I think it's quite tell the difference between NARRATOR: If all spotted cats it might explain why the Ndutu with such vigor. But Leo's not convinced. He's sure lions can and isn't comfortable explaining mistaken identity. But he does think there are the relationships One last missing link that for the attack. NARRATOR: Trying to understand on tape, filmmaker Leo Kuenkel his extraordinary footage, and Packer, he's dissected the Africa's top predators. For lions, hyenas and of competition for prey, overlapping territories, and perhaps of attacks on the young. But does the same hold Could an instinct for in the attack Leo witnessed, cubs around? To find out, Leo and Craig will the deadly equation. First up are cheetah cubs, In fact, experts believe that predators abound, up to 90 killed before they reach So that leaves only one Craig: We know that hyenas can leopards can kill lion cubs and has always been: do cheetah NARRATOR: If they do, it would such a persistent urge they were following. In the lions' eyes, it would detested category as hyenas and killed at any opportunity. Problem is, Craig has never seen out a lion cub. Neither has Leo, though Leo: I haven't seen a but I've seen a cheetah, a lion cubs. NARRATOR: Leo remembers it well. A female cheetah pursuing deadly intent. Leo: If they had been two weeks been around, I'm sure that killed them. NARRATOR: It's not but it's enough to suggest have good reason to treat they treat the other Chase...catch...and kill. Craig: If cheetah can kill lion it would make a lot of sense resident in a pride would want predators for their own babies. Leo: I think so, too. Yeah. And I think that would we've seen here. NARRATOR: It's the final and lets us finally watch the understanding of what A female cheetah in ...in the wrong place Three male cheetahs blinded by at all costs. A battle wound that and two powerful male lions, ruthlessly pursuing to their young. A perfect storm on and a lucky filmmaker in the it all on tape.