- [Narrator] Some toy cars have Pull it back and then release In this video, we're the spring, and that when winding up the car. (spring clicking) That's coming up. (electric buzzing) (lightning explosion) (upbeat music) If you want one of these you can either push it. You could build a track and use gravity to move the car forward. Or my personal favorite are the cars with the pull back mechanism. No batteries required. Just firmly press down, pull back the car to wind it up. Now release it and watch it go. Let's take a look at how this works. Take the case off the car and four wheels and a motor. The front wheels spin freely. There's nothing special about them. The motor is only connected Now if you wind it up, you can see some of the gears moving. Let's open this up to see what's going on. There's five gears here. And right behind the biggest gear is a twisted piece of metal. It's called a Torsion Spring. The more you twist this, and the more energy it stores. Once released, it will quickly unwind if allowed to do so. This spring fits quite snug If I pull it out, then the And it's not so easy to put back in. So be warned if you try On the large gear, there sticking out the side. These fit right around as the gear turns, the spring does too. When the car is pulled back, of gears turning. This is called the gear train and it's what causes Let's take a step back for a moment and talk about gear ratios. I have two gears here of different sizes. If the big gear turns once, the small gear will turn around more than once. Now imagine the small gear had another larger gear attached to it. We could repeat this again Turn the first gear just a little and the last gear turns a lot. This concept is used in the mechanism for a pull back car. Now let's take a look at the car gears. There's one attached to the axle and there's one right next to it. These always move together whether the car moves forward or backwards. We've seen the large gear. Now these two gears have This one helps winding up the car. And this one helps unwind the spring and push the car forward. The wind up gear can slide up and down to engage or disengage with the teeth on the large gear. On the side, there's a diagonal slot that makes the sliding possible. When we start pulling back the car, the wind up gear engages When the car is released the gears move the other way which disengages the wind up gear so it's no longer in Now during this time, the wind down gear is doing the exact opposite. The car is pulled back, the wind down gear is disengaged from the large gear. You can see it doing a little dance while it tries to stay out of the way. When the car is released, slides into place just as the wind up gear slides out of place. The Torsion Spring is causing which then moves the gears which then turns the wheels on the car. This is where the gear The largest gear moves only a little and the back wheels of the car turn a lot. This is part of why the car When the spring has the car keeps going on its own momentum. The large gear will stop and the wind down gear This time, both of these This way, the car with minimal interference Imagine if the car abruptly It wouldn't be a very fun toy. Now because of the gear ratios, you can move the car back and forth while firmly pressing down and Watch the large gear here. Pull back the car and the Push the car forward the same amount, and the large gear only unwinds a little. Back and forth. Back and forth. Overall, the spring is still winding up. One last mystery is that when you pull back the car far enough. (spring clicking) This is actually a clever fail safe to prevent you from over which might damage the On the outside of the spring, which fits into these When the spring has enough tension, the loop will slip into the next slot. This is what causes the clicking noise. The sound means your car as far as it'll go. My name's Jared and I'm a I like making videos If you'd like to help me make more videos, click here to visit my Patreon page. Thanks for watching and (upbeat music)