-Hi. I'm Rick Steves, back with more This time, we're going local It's Lisbon. Thanks for joining us. Like no other European built with the riches has a rustic charm. The city is a complex mix. Immigrants from a vibrant young democracy after a long period and money all combine We'll remember great navigators, climb castle ruins savor pastries hot discover back lanes, marvel at an exquisite church join locals in a stylish food [ Woman singing in Portuguese ] ...and sip fine port. Portugal shares with its neighbor, Spain. The capital city, Lisbon, We'll take a side trip but, first, four historic districts -- the Baixa, Bairro Alto, Lisbon was originally populated then by Moors from Africa but the city's glory days were when explorers opened up new trade making Lisbon one of Today, Lisbon is a city on the yawning mouth With its iconic bridge overlooking its huge port, it welcomes ships and still feels like With its characteristic Lisbon has a San Francisco vibe. Today, Lisbon is of now and then. Trolleys rattle up [ Bell clangs ] Noble statues mark Locals enjoy venerable cafes. And a once-neglected harbor Lisbon's history is dominated an earthquake in 1755. It was so strong, as far away as Ireland. 30,000 people died as two-thirds It was actually three disasters After the quake, Then, a massive tsunami The scarred pillars evoke the horror of that day. It was All Saints' Day, and most This is one of the few buildings The city was reconstructed and eventually of its prime minister, the Marques de Pombal. Lisbon's downtown is The Baixa, or Lower Town, At the top, the Avenue with a proud With wide sidewalks it feels and functions From there, a series of fine for our springtime visit. They lead through one planned city centers and the vast Before the earthquake, of a huge royal palace. Today, it's another The grandiose arch stands A statue of the Portuguese represents Lisbon's And a statue of the devastated city's impressive Pombal rebuilt the city fast, cheap The spartan and utilitarian named Pombaline after Pombal, That's because it is. The Baixa we see today by Pombal's military engineers, whose experience was in in Portuguese colonies overseas. The new Lisbon featured economical with all the pieces easy The 18th-century buildings in former Portuguese colonies and Brazil are interchangeable with the buildings The buildings are all uniform, with the same number of floors Inside, they were designed Outside, decoration was limited Lisbon's churches were rebuilt, but had to fit Pombal's You hardly notice their Pombal's austerity is replaced With its distinctive sidewalks, The black-and-white and uniquely Portuguese. To this day, patterns dating must be chosen from a book Wherever you stroll, Plenty of character and color and much of it is edible. To be sure we get the most I'm joined by my friend Cristina Duarte. -This is my favorite spot the grocery store, -Take me inside? -This is amazing. -You see these fish? This is cod -- bacalhau. It's our national dish. -So, your favorite place Cod. -Yes, a lot. All the Portuguese do. So, this is salted, as you see. -And it's dry. And we can eat it, like, You can find it -So, in the old days, -In salt and then dry it. -And then how do -Well, you have to soak it in water and then you just cook it -So, if I go to a restaurant, -Bacalhau. -And I'll find it on menus? [ Both laugh ] That's it. -This is one of the 365 ways -So, what do we have in this? it is codfish... -...potato, onion, and parsley, and then it is all deep-fried. It's wonderful. Bolinhos de bacalhau. -This is just either in the morning -It's like fast food -Fast food in Portugal. -Mmm. -Cristina's favorite take us all over town, so we're traveling by trolley. Many of these have been since the 1920s, somehow safely weaving as they climb Lisbon's traditional market hall and a joy to explore. Locals still shop here but as is the case modern buying habits are forcing to evolve. In order for the farmers' markets are adding Today, much of this market run by local celebrity chefs. It's a youthful and trendy scene of enticing dishes and for us, it's mixing quality food, expedience, The market stands at the base It's too steep for a trolley, The Elevador da Bica funicular climbs through where more tasty bites Small, creative wine bars into the old quarter. Along with a warm welcome, you're sure to gain of the local taste treats. No visit to Lisbon is complete without sipping the favorite -Well, cod but port is the national drink. -I like that. -And our server this nice tawny port with Throughout Europe, know how to combine with a contemporary setting. We're just a short from the dessert course To save money, we're using You zap in... [ Beep ] ..and zap out. [ Beep ] By the way, throughout Europe, pickpockets are hard and trolleys most popular so enjoy the ride, but keep Next stop, custard pies. This bakery is popular You'll find these treats and they originated right here. Behind the busy cafe scene, cranks out thousands of these They tried mechanizing but it just wasn't the same. Each one is still Why are these so special? It's a secret, -No. -Stopping here is a ritual with every visit to Lisbon. A sweet drink. We'll cap our little food tour Traditional hole-in-the-wall Ginjinha. Let's have a drink. [ Speaking Portuguese ] -You can order it I've noticed that most What's the berry? It's a sour cherry -- Ginja. -So, the drink is Ginja? It's, like, a little berry -Sweet Portuguese cherry juice. It's, like, and then you make And &quot;sabe que nem ginjas.&quot; -What does that mean? -So, if something is just -Really, really, really good. You say, &quot;Sabe que nem ginjas.&quot; -Ah. Crowning the hill is the Castle of St. George. Lisbon's castle was first who swept in from North Africa and conquered this region After Portugal beat the Moors the castle became While, today, the castle it's surrounded by a peaceful and inviting park with Just outside the walls, Lisbon's from the castle A popular terrace provides This is the Alfama, and it dates Its tangled street plan survived making this neighborhood a cobbled playground While new affluence and tourism bits of old character hang on. And people who've lived here witnessing that change -[ Speaking Portuguese ] -84 years old, she is. -Nice. How long has -[ Translating in Portuguese ] 80 years old... -Yeah. -She was born here? -On the other side of the Baixa or Bairro Alto. It's another characteristic To save a few steps, we're Built to connect the Lower Town it was constructed in 1902, just a few years the Eiffel Tower. The Bairro Alto was laid out to house ship workers back when and its ships planted all over the globe. Five centuries later, its character survives, who call the Bairro Alto home A popular stop nearby is This cafe retains the ambience it had when it caffeinated and it's still a good place In the evening, with a thriving and various restaurants with the folk music [ Woman singing Portuguese ] Traditionally, entertained guests Since the mid-1800s, fado mournful ballads broken hearts, It's impromptu, informal. Sometimes, the singer is just She's accompanied by one playing a 12-string We're dining a little more for this intimate music. These are songs of sadness, [ Singing continues ] It's a distinctly Portuguese a kind of yearning or nostalgia. [ Woman singing in Portuguese ] [ Music ends, applause ] Like industrial harbor fronts Lisbon's has recently into a people-friendly and from here, a trolley takes to the district of Belem. Belem survived Because of that, great buildings from Lisbon's like the Belem Tower, Back then, this tower Today, it symbolizes the voyages so powerful five centuries ago. This was the last sight into the unknown when they returned, The nearby built in 1960 on the 500th anniversary is shaped like the ship the caravel. It celebrates how exploring Leading the charge is holding a model followed by kneeling who Christianized foreign Vasco da Gama stands tall, and hand on his weapon. Magellan holds a circle his ship famously Across the way which shows how once built a mighty empire. Exhibits show the technology that Portugal used in exploration and trade The caravel, the ultimate ship was Portugal's secret It was fast, small, and light, with sails that Nimble and able to sail it was ideal for sailing The Portuguese became experts With ingenious tools like these, they could now sail Equipped with this technology Vasco da Gama sailed Portugal's mastery of the sea Throughout the Middle Ages, Italy dominated European but within 10 years around Africa to India, Italy's trade plummeted, and the seafaring nations England, Holland, emerged as Europe's Next to the museum is with Lisbon's most King Manuel ruled during around the year 1500. He built this church for the trade Manuel financed the construction by taxing spices He built all of this on the site where seafarers prayed on their frightening voyages. The style of Manuel's church -- This style, while medieval, is Unlike earlier the interior is open and airy. Palm-tree-like columns This uniquely Portuguese style and the many cultural Manueline decoration is featuring motifs from the sea. Monsters evoke the mystery A totem pole of indigenous Portuguese conquests. And the ceiling, a Boy Scout Portugal's nautical know-how. This is Vasco da Gama's tomb. In 1497, he spent an evening The next morning, he set sail with 4 state-of-the-art caravels These lacy Manueline cloisters, are the architectural The sheer size of this is a testament that, along with money, From Lisbon's ornate we're popping out of town The station's busy with We're venturing to the royal town of Sintra. For centuries, Portugal's royals the perfect place Now tourists do, as well. Sintra is a mix of natural fabulous mansions under craggy hilltops Aristocrats with money and built their extravagant homes in the same neighborhood. Lord Byron called this and aristocratic dreams A handy shuttle bus loops making Sintra's Our first stop -- The approach is a gentle hike As you emerge from the forest, you see the first sign Then we come upon These ramparts are a castle Built by the Muslim Moors, Christian Reconquista forces And what you'll climb on today, was significantly restored Still, with a little [ Indistinct shouting, ...I'm under attack Capping the hill, even higher is the fanciful Pena Palace. Like other fanciful castles from the late 1800s this has nothing and everything to do This is the world of Portugal's very romantic German-born Ferdinand, whose cousins was a royal typical of that age. He took the ruins and built upon it the palace He ended up with a whimsical Gothic towers, Moorish arches, Manueline ornamentation, and playful fantasies. The interior, dining-room table still set, and the king's like a then-state-of-the-art is an attempt to that the royal family That was during a popular revolt to today's modern republic. The king would hardly Portugal's capital city, is embracing its future, and it's understandably on any Iberian itinerary. I hope you've enjoyed our look as a maritime superpower, to its relaxed Thanks for joining us. Until next time, -Over there. -[ Speaking indistinctly ] ...and built upon it, the palace -Hey, hey, hey. Hey. -Calm down. -Okay. -Okay. &quot;Keep it seemly&quot; travels.