Enrico Fermi may just be the luckiest man Fermi is Italy's top physicist. At the age of just 24 he had been made a professor commanding presence his researchers had nicknamed Unlike the Pope though, he was broke. Italy's dominance in science had long fallen If they needed a piece of equipment, they If they needed protection from radiation, hall to avoid getting a lethal dose of whatever You see, they were trying to do the unthinkable. They were trying to make a new element. The periodic table back in Fermi's time, Similar to what you're familiar with, but You'll notice a few gaps in the middle regions. Specifically, elements like Technetium, Francium, But the biggest missing pieces are at the We're missing like, a full row and a half. What you see here right now, are all the chemical just sitting around, in the atmosphere as liquids. Many of them are stable. A good number of them are safe, so long as A decent portion however are not, and are Radioactive samples that are firing off millions into your bloodstream. Radium, discovered by Marie Curie, almost Her daughter, Irene, very likely died from by her mother. So maybe you understand now why Fermi didn't if it meant extending his lifespan by a few So how does one go about making a new element? Well, on paper it's simple. You add or remove protons. Hydrogen has 1 proton. Helium 2. Lithium 3. And if you keep doing this, count all the get to the heaviest element in the known world Element 92. You know it as Uranium. Here's the other part of the picture. An element is determined entirely by its proton That neutron number makes certain elements Carbon-12 with 6 protons and 6 neutrons is It will stay in that form, untouched, for Carbon-14 with 6 protons and 8 neutrons, is It's got an energy imbalance that it wants And at random it will convert one of its extra electron [and a neutrino] to account for the We call this beta-minus decay. What you're left with is an element with That's 7 protons, AKA Nitrogen. Look at that! Purely by having one too many neutrons, the a entirely different element. Fermi's idea was to go to the furthest edge and fire neutrons at it to try and artificially If it worked, you'd be upgrading element And if he could do it twice in a row, possibly But here's a fun problem, how do you even After all you don't know what it looks like, In this case Fermi and his team had to rule hadn't created. They compared their result with the chemistry 82, and couldn't find a single match. Unstable elements often lead to something That's when a nucleus spits out two protons It leads to a leapfrog effect, where element and so on, until they reach a stable element, The other possibility was that they had actually They had made elements 93 and 94 for the very The discovery catapulted Fermi into overnight He was Italy's pride and joy, and obviously Although he was under a lot of pressure to Rome. Fascium, from the word Fasces. Recently however, the symbol had taken on It was the symbol of Fascism, and the man Mussolini. Yeah. Fermi did not follow the suggestion. Four years go by. It is November 10th 1938. Two things happen that day. In Germany it's the Night of Broken Glass. In Italy, a wave of anti-Semitic laws are Fermi's wife Laura was Jewish and her passport So when the phone call came that day at 6pm, in physics, their family didn't think twice. Fermi, his wife and his children packed their They did not return to Italy, and instead And almost immediately after they arrived He had been wrong. He hadn't created elements 93 and 94. He had done something much crazier. He had made an atom explode. When Fermi declared that he had made new elements, didn't match up with anything as light as Turns out, he should have looked even lighter. A group in Berlin had repeated his experiment, They were seeing Krypton and Barium. Two elements that were far too light to be But, if you add up their proton numbers, 36, Uranium. Fermi had split an atom in 2, a process that In reality Fermi had discovered nuclear fission. A discovery that would go on to fundamentally fled from. A discovery that would go on to dictate a half a century. Entirely by accident, Fermi had falsely claimed And a half century later, one man would make This is a story about Victor Ninov, and the I gotta show you something. This is the periodic table. I'm betting you recognize it. But it doesn't show the whole picture. Each element has a unique number of protons. But each element can have any number of neutrons. We call these nucleides. Some are more stable than others. There are dozens of elements. But there are thousands of nuclides. Here's what you're looking at. The X axis is the number of neutrons. The Y axis is the number of protons. Each square is a possible nucleus. This is Hydrogen. Exactly 1 proton. This is Helium. 2 protons, 2 neutrons. Every possible proton-neutron combination this chart. Every time we go up a row, that's a new I don't think my audience has a ton of overlap weird reason, think of this as scorigami, A checklist where we mark off things that again. See, inside a nucleus is a pair of competing On the one hand you have the strong nuclear At extremely short ranges it is able to glue But on the other hand you have the repulsive Protons all have a positive charge, and thus Only when the strong nuclear force can overcome nuclei. The neutrons, which are electrically neutral, Because they don't repel each other, they a nuclei more stable. Notably, the same element can have different stable, and some decaying immediately. We can actually see those stable nuclei quite They are the tall pillars in brown. The height on this chart represents the half-life A single half-life is the time it takes for The taller it is, the more stable it is. One thing you can see is that for the lightest those where the proton number equals the neutron See this line? Perfectly balanced. You can trace this line from Hydrogen up until diverge. For most elements it's actually more stable If we followed this path all the way we'd This is the path of stability, the safe path As soon as you stray even a little bit from The red pillars here is essentially stable, But by the time you make it to the oranges A couple hours go by and a sample could be And if you touch the water, in blue, those And the deep blue? Well, that's milliseconds, or in the worst even measure it. For some of the nuclei, there's a good chance at a time, in the entire universe. A nuclei so unstable it could never occur The beauty of this chart is that to me is of our journey through the periodic table. Like a mountainous peninsula surrounded by The sea even has tides. Way up here in the chasm, you'll often get That's when an element spits out two protons It moves two spaces diagonally downwards. Like this. A cascade that doesn't stop until you reach On the south side of the mountain pass there's Fermi's beta-minus decay. You lose a neutron, but gain a proton. Like this. If you're smart, you can use it to go up But on the other hand, to the Northern side decay. You lose a proton, but gain a neutron. No matter where you are however, every part The tides of radiation always lead you back No matter where you started you eventually of stable nuclei. Some people refuse to accept this. They push back, trying to explore more of Enrico Fermi was one of the first. Fermi began his journey here, and he made Over the course of the next 50 years several up this mountain, and every new pilgrimage The protagonist of our story, the intrepid it up to here. That's pretty far huh? To meet him we've got a bit of journey ahead To cross this sea we're going to need a Fermi would go on to do important things. His most well known achievement is building of a Chicago football field. But he stopped pursuing the hunt for new elements. That chase would be taken up by an entirely The discovery of the real element 93 was weirdly On the West Coast of America at the University was in full "go big or go home" mode. Berkeley at the time was home to the world's for element hunting. A cyclotron is a type a particle accelerator, around in circles, and then smashes them into Now this isn't one of the multi-mile rings are actually too powerful for making new elements. For this you need something a bit more delicate. Berkeley's state of the art tool was 60 target with neutrons, again, hoping for Fermi's And one day, after finding a radioactive lump had been officially confirmed. We now know it as Neptunium. The credit for this discovery went to Edwin was short lived. Their publication was met with silence from No one dared acknowledge the breakthrough Although America hadn't yet joined World and the rest of the lab's top scientists on radar, or in some cases, the Manhattan That left a vacant seat to take over the element That's where our captain comes in. Glen Seaborg. As the descendant of Swedish immigrants, they name Sjoberg. Upon reaching Ellis island, an immigration be Seaborg, and it stayed that way. This customs officer had no idea that his make it on to the periodic table. Glen from a young age went the tides of life After his family decided to move from icy Glen decided to add an extra 'N' to his I can't argue with that Glenn. And on another day, as a 24 year old chemistry someone from the Radiation lab stopped him some chemical samples. He was just the first chemist they found on Seaborg would eventually work his way up through asked if he could take over the new captain With bigger war related things on his mind Although McMillan never got to try it out, and good old Glenn would get the first crack If you add one neutron to Uranium, it beta But say you fired a proton *and* a neutron. The proton would immediately bump it up to have a chance at beta decaying, upping it It really is like an absurdly delicate game So yeah. That's how you make Plutonium. It's safe to say that the discovery of Plutonium It's actually an even better fuel for a plan for the Manhattan project, and thus Seaborg with...oh hey, it's Fermi! There they spent months artificially making It was difficult and hazardous work, and at and 25% of the world's entire Plutonium Times. But the Manhattan project is a story that's to tell it than me. The story we care about involves Glenn Seaborg By this point they have enough Plutonium for time to ponder some other questions. Why stop at 94? Surely the periodic table didn't end at And they didn't even have to re-invent the Instead of starting with Uranium, just start To go back to the jenga analogy, you're rows are radioactive, and they keep disappearing But as long as you're building the tower find a new element. Now at this point we're going to pick up the There are still a lot of missing pieces here not all the details are important. If you want to read more I highly recommend Essentially though, the timeline went like Element 93, discovered by Berkeley. Element 94, Berkeley. Element 96, discovered by Berkeley members Element 95, discovered by Berkeley members Two atomic bombs are then dropped on Hiroshima the immediate blast and poisoning the ground Next up was element 97, once again found by it at this point, they named Berkelium. Element 98, hey guess what? It's Berkeley again, they named it Californium With 4 elements in a row the New York Times ofium, californium, berkelium. It was at this point that Nobel academy finally so Edwin McMillan and Glenn Seaborg shared Next up was elements 99 and 100, and this I'm not making it up. America dropped a nuclear bomb in the middle the very very top of the mushroom cloud to rapidly decaying lumps back to Los Alamos to see if they had made any new elements. Yes. And unbelievably, they did. Since Berkeley helped out with the analysis, of 99 and 100. These were named after two of the field's Einstein, and Fermi. Both of them had passed away just months earlier. And soon enough there was element 101, again, Named to honour the creator of the modern It truly was one of the most dominant streaks Every other lab was left playing catchup and nearly half a row to the periodic table. And there was nowhere else to go, except further As of 1945 the 4 earlier gaps in the table Elements 43, 87, 85, and 61 had all been isolated. If there were more elements out there, it find them. They would be come to be known as the superheavies. As for Glenn Seaborg he was once again going His career took a turn when he received an He was about to be the next head of the Atomic Later he would become a close confidant of such good friends that Seaborg was regularly After he had made the fuel for the first atomic that would limit the spread of nukes. This is not an attempt to absolve him of his This is where Seaborg diverges from our story, Every element in the streak from 93 to 101 of tie to Berkeley. From this point on it would not be so clear a geopolitical scale. There are a lot of famous Einstein quotes very first time while researching this video. This is what Einstein had to say on the topic "It would be like shooting birds at night, So true bestie. And he's not wrong, element hunting is essentially The basic setup is easy enough to describe. You have a target, and a bullet. Except both the target and the bullet are the target is almost certainly radioactive. And even if you do make a direct hit, there's destroy parts of your target. So this is less like aiming a gun at a target, absolute worst odds imaginable. If you take just one spin, the odds of hitting But, if you take 5 million cracks at the roulette impossible, to just barely within the realm Sure, the odds are terrible, but sooner or For element hunters, this means aiming a beam months, which you can imagine, gets very very Depending on the lab, firing a beam continuously tens of thousands of dollars. A few months of beam time then is easily in We have a lot of Uranium on Earth, about 5.5 half life is still 25 thousands years, so neutrons at for months on end is no problem. So making Plutonium is easy enough. But then for the next level, your target needs And then after that it's Curium, Einsteinium, is getting shorter and shorter. A gram of Uranium costs about 13 cents. A gram of Einsteinium costs about $27 million Most casino go-ers can't afford that kind But in theory, if you've got unlimited time, a hell of a lot easier. Berkeley, situated in the richest state in most money and the best equipment, so no wonder But that's the beauty of the casino. It was just a matter of time until another While the Americans were busy building a bomb, so. Admittedly they were very occupied holding had focused all their scientists on metallurgy. The Soviet nuclear program owes its start Eastern front. Georgy Flerov. Prior to the war he had been following the for all publications to abruptly stop mentioning Hmm. He found this bizarre as the ability harness development in physics in decades. He soon connected the dots. "Oh my god they're all making bombs". Flerov against all conventional wisdom, wrote that the Soviets devote as many resources Flerov was, surprisingly, not punished for player in the Soviet nuclear program. Following the war however, Flerov changed He wanted to hunt elements. He founded JINR in Dubna, a small Russian Soon it would be America vs the USSR in the Wow, science being used as a tool by rival Never heard that one before. Couldn't be me. It's safe to say nearly every new element contested, any and all evidence would denied These were the Transfermium wars, and here's First a small lab in Sweden claims they found Uh no you didn't says Berkeley, your equipment enough. I agree says Dubna, and then they both bullied had actually found anything. Berkeley tried some experiments of their own, spill that resulted in their lab being evacuated, their average lifespan. Dubna then swoops in with even better results, Then, Dubna claimed 104, 103, and then 105, try and nitpick their data and make those It didn't help that each side had their To confirm a new element the Soviets preferred Their detectors were cheaper, and nuclei that guaranteed to detect *something*. The Americans called this unreliable, as you They preferred to track alpha decay chains, other. Because of this split in methodology the data Some of it was good but was dismissed by the up wrong but was pushed out the door due to It's almost as if this sort of cut throat, I sure hope that doesn't come back to bite For now the element hunt had stalled. By the time you get up to element 102 your Before you could rely on other dedicated labs could ship it to you, and then you could start With a half-life less than an hour, you couldn't intercontinental flight. The quantities they were working with were When Berkeley claimed the discovery for Curium, 5000 atoms of it. By the time they got to element 101 they had Soon enough it was likely that any new elements Singular atoms that would decay before another This clearly wasn't the end of the periodic expensive and too impractical to continue. At least, not without a breakthrough. Out the 218 winners only 4 women have ever The first was Marie Curie all the way back of radiation. She would be the only woman to hold this title It wouldn't be until 1963 that Mario Goeppert-Mayer Like many of the pioneers of nuclear physics, After the war she began studying elements appeared to be random, soon she began to see Certain nuclei were reliably more stable than It was almost as if there were "magic numbers" Maria visualized protons and neutrons as a The dancers are circling around the room, You can fit more dancers in the room if you pairs spinning in opposite directions. Certain magic numbers of dancers fit more In technical terms, this results in nuclei gives a more stable nucleus. To date the known magic numbers are: 2, 8, In element terms, that's helium, oxygen, The critical way markers on the mountainous Notice that these magic numbers all even. This demonstrates that protons and neutrons Like dancers, pairing up for a waltz. Additionally, elements with a magic number abundant. And finally, at the end of a naturally occurring stable element with a magic number. For an extra special example of this, take It's considered double magic, with both number. There's a reason it's the very last step great chasm. And the magic numbers theory had one last some hope. There was a magic island out in the middle This island, based on the predictions of magic and 184 neutrons. Right here. Make no mistake, this is not an island you You're still up to your neck in water, but sand at the bottom. For just a moment, you can catch your breath, come in and sweep you away again. And if this was true, maybe you didn't need by element. Maybe you could do it in reverse. Start at the edge of the cliff and launch From there, whatever element you made would And you'd generate all the other elements They needed a catapult. Element 106 marked a turning point in the The last 4 elements were contested by both announced by Berkeley and Dubna the same month. For once, both teams agreed that it was too The tactics at this point had changed. Element 93 was made by slamming a neutron The biggest possible target, and the smallest By the 1980s the thinking had changed. Why use an expensive radioactive target, when target like lead? And instead of firing something small like Chromium, or iron. Think about it. Lead has 82 protons. Iron has 26. 82 plus 26 is 108. Counter-intuitively, this is actually more to join to a massive nucleus, nuclei closer product doesn't eject nearly as many neutrons Now if this sounds too good to be true, yes a source as heavy as iron would need an entirely up, and a detector that was more sensitive yet. The Soviets were out of money, and had no And the Americans over in California had for The stage was set for player 3. This is GSI. Situated in Darmstadt in Western Germany, the new expensive equipment that the Soviet war West German economic miracle. Their new beam could fire elements as heavy which would hit a lead target. Over the course of just 5 years this led to order. For the first time it was a true three-way Berkeley, Dubna, and GSI. As the 1980s came to a close, there were 9 In comes IUPAC. Now I once got into an argument with a commenter body that decides the names for the chemical with the names. But only in the same way that 6 year old me my mom had no say in the matter. IUPAC laid out the basic rule for what can that an element must be stable enough to exist It's the time necessary for electrons to But IUPAC's also had to choose who got to separate American and Soviet names for a dozen And even in the rare case where they could which element it should get that name. Three separate elements have at one point, IUPAC would foolishly spend years trying to but eventually settled on a compromise that Among these names, for the first time, after scientist. Element 106 was called Seaborgium. The captain had left a permanent mark on the life. He passed away 2 years after the name was It was a fitting end, because Seaborgium would The collapse of the Soviet Union hit the Dubna The Russian economy was a garbage fire and wasn't immune to the fallout. For a while it seemed doomed to close down. If you weren't Russian, you left the lab you left the lab for a private sector job In the end what saved it was renting out the with the unlikeliest of allies. Livermore Labs in California also had an element lab alive by joining forces. For the world this was a good thing. But for Berkeley this was yet another hurdle. Their fiercest rival had just teamed up with It would be outright petty to dispute any Dubna-Livermore first set their sights on their attention soon shifted. They were about to attempt something that They were finally making that catapult, and stability. Their recipe was Calcium-48, fired at Plutonium-244. They were going to skip 3 whole rows and aim And it 1998, it worked! 114 protons, but only 176 neutrons. Remember, the theoretical center of this island east, with 184 neutrons. But the half-life of this atom of 114 was Not milliseconds, full seconds. The island of stability was real, and they IUPAC wasn't entirely convinced, they wanted They'd work on trying to reproduce 114 more The German team at GSI had other ideas. Although the country had suffered its own on their feet much faster than Russia, and their equipment. But the lab at this point was being shared The main accelerator had a busy queue, and accelerator before another team got priority. The element hunting team had already spent the beam intensity, and now they only had off the schedule. It was an extremely short window for this their slot. The team decided to swap out the beam to fire After just 1 day they saw the first sign of They were unbelievably lucky. Their luck continued when they found out the So they kept at it. They swapped out the lead target for Bismuth. Bam, one extra proton gave them element 111. Two elements in just as many months. A year goes by and they try firing Zinc at At first they get a weird reading, but they In a little over a week they find 112. The German team had once again done the unthinkable. A hat-trick of three elements in a row. Move over Berkeley, the crown had officially Berkeley at this point was nearly 20 years The Russians were probing the island of stability, They needed a secret weapon. And so, they orchestrated a coup. Enter, finally, Victor Ninov. Physics doesn't often lend itself especially way music or film does. It's a glacially paced field of study that hard to find a photo of someone that hasn't But if physics did have a rising star, Victor Ninov was born in Bulgaria in 1959. As a young man his family emigrated to West Ninov would go on to study physics at the city in which GSI is located. Eccentric does not do Ninov justice. He regularly signed his emails with "Your He loved biking, and even played the violin. After he met his future wife, Caroline Cox, He would often venture into the mountains accident that left him badly injured. His travels were not limited to the ground on a 45-foot sailboat, and somehow he had four-seat Aero Commander. However none of that holds a candle to my He and a colleague were on a quest to visit they would always order the spaghetti carbonara Let me be absolutely clear. This is a grade A bit. I would also do this. This is so funny to me. A Bulgarian man ordering an Italian pasta Zero notes on this. Besides being well liked by the entire team In 1988 GSI upgraded their computers and Ninov He was the go-to computer tech and even wrote It was one of a kind, a start-of-the-art software samples. Whereas before you had to manually look for gone digital. He had found himself a niche in a field that And over the last 10 years he was able to "co-discoverer of elements 110, 111 and So given all this it was an outright scandal The man who orchestrated this headhunt was Al Ghiorso's story is a wild one. One day during the mid 1940s he was installing ended up meeting two secretaries. One of the women, Wilma Belt, would later The other woman, would later become the wife Through this mutual friendship, Glenn recruited Ghiorso was gifted at making homemade Geiger After the war when they returned home to Berkeley, they had been together for every element up appointment. That left Ghiorso as the defacto head of Berkeley's He was meant for this job. Let me paint you a picture of this man. In the 1940s Al Ghiorso supposedly held the he had extended his personal one so far he out in California. He never collected the prize because he was Back when Berkeley had their accelerator on a mile up a hill, Ghiorso would jump in his night, race at illegal speeds up the Berkeley before it decayed into nothing. Once he nearly ran over a security guard who When Berkeley had their accidental radiation Al who exited the building last, after he Nearly half a century later Al Ghiorso was glory days. His 2nd world record, a little more prestigious discovered. So when Al Ghiorso calls Victor Ninov a young Ghiorso was so excited that this brought him Berkeley had new rising star, and an opportunity With Ninov put in charge of the data analysis to be in charge of the equipment end. That man was Ken Gregorich. He had overseen the construction of Berkeley's Seperator, a device that looks like this. Now they just needed a recipe. Dubna and Livermore had just made the claim IUPAC wanted more data. Already months behind, Berkeley would have a more convincing experiment, but they would Dubna had used Plutonium-244 and Calcium-48, run the experiments. Also the other problem was that the amount to use in the densely populated San Francisco Instead they had another recent addition to Robert Smolanczuk wasn't a permanent team Poland. He was a theoretical physicist who had previously One colleague called his calculations "simply Robert was saying skip everything from 113 Aim for 118. His plan was simple, fire Krypton-86 at a acquire, and better yet, not radioactive! Now conventional wisdom said that this recipe Yeah the protons add up to 118, but the probability near impossible. Not Robert though, he had published a paper recipe was actually more likely to occur than See going back to the roulette analogy, element You gotta consider what the odds getting a for weeks. And to quantify this probability physicists measurement. A barn is a unit that something of a hybrid of a collision between two particles. Essentially, how likely are you to hit a given It quite literally comes from the phrase "couldn't Given its origin, 1 whole barn is considered be very difficult to miss a target of 1 barn. When it came to element hunting, the size for decades. These days reactions are measured in picobarns, Take a look at this chart. On the horizontal axis you see the atomic And on the left hand side is the estimated You'll notice that this is a logarithmic As you go from element 102 to 110, the probability million! Talk about diminishing returns. One thing you might notice however, is the 114. This is one of the indications that the magic and suggested that the Russian team were onto Now element 118 though, that's a terrible Most recipes were predicting not even a single When you get down to picobarn level, if you be able to produce one single atom a week, out hundreds of thousands of dollars. Once you go below a picobarn, you'd be lucky beam time. And that's why Robert's recipe was so His paper argued that his recipe could give If he was right it would be a game changer. Not everyone was convinced, but the nice thing potentially high reward. And they needed a calibration test run for magical recipe? No one was expecting an immediate breakthrough. And yet that's essentially what they got. The experiment began on April 8th 1999. Most of the lab had left for Easter break. The one exception was Ninov, who stayed behind 11 days later, the lab director, Darleane Her first instinct was it would be bad news. It had only been 11 days. Ken Gregorich assured her that it was quite Darleane had every reason to assume the worst. Chemistry in the 40s was not a job intended Darleane Hoffman had to wade through years that. When her father passed away suddenly she asked quantum chemistry test to plan the funeral. The professor made her do the test on the This was, to use the industry term, horseshit. She wrote it with tears in her eyes. She still got a B. She persevered and got But when she got there she was told that women While HR sat on their ass pretending to do at a party, who immediately fixed the situation. And then her security clearance magically Wow, that's weird. It took 3 more months before Darleane got But it had been 4 months of waiting, and she have been a career highlight. Remember that atomic bomb that the fighter They went to Los Alamos, the because of the part of the team who discovered elements 99 A loss that filled her with rage that she She was beloved by nearly every chemist she And now, as entered her 70s, she was in charge So, yes. She wanted an element. She wanted it a lot. Just a few minutes after the phone call, Gregorich, and Victor Ninov had come to her office. Ninov had found something incredible in the want to show Darleane the result at first. But he was outvoted, because why wouldn't To better illustrate what he had observed, Three picture perfect alpha decay chains that If we overlaid it here, it would look like If this was legit, the team had found not With the IUPAC decision still out on 114, that belonged to Berkeley. Their first in 25 years. Darleane Hoffman was going to get her wish, Ninov, in as much disbelief as everyone else Now they didn't immediately announce to They took a few weeks and ran another experiment, Of the four they had now, the team reasoned three were legit. Not only that, they sent the results to GSI. They also gave the greenlight. In June 1999 Hoffman and Ghiorso, two titans and announced their two new elements. The eventual paper was submitted to Physical Everyone from the semi retired Ghiorso to it. Victor Ninov was first author. Given how successful Robert's recipe had step was to simply swap out the lead target With that extra proton, maybe they could also Now make no mistake, if an element was going wasn't going to be Ninov. The obvious choice, the one already being Al was the current world record holder and to his late friend Seaborg. But Ninov clearly had a bright future ahead With potentially 5 elements under his belt He didn't get to carry it for long. GSI, missing their star researcher but still up with Berkeley. However when they took a crack at repeating the alpha decay chain that Ninov had recorded. Similarly before the end of 1999 teams in This was very odd, as all those labs had tried as closely as possible. Robert's recipe was thought to be a longshot, risk with a potentially high reward, as the easy to acquire and set up. Something was off. Ninov was doing the conference circuit at to talk about his breakthrough. He continually deflected questions about his The Berkeley team is perplexed at this point. They re-run their own experiment in Spring They can't reproduce the event either. This is a problem now. Assuming the same conditions, the 2nd run atoms of 118. By summer 2000 Berkeley established an independent the supervision of I-Yang Lee. Completely different team of people, but the His studies wrap up by Fall 2000. They too saw no evidence of the 118 decay Following this Berkeley overhauls their detector procedures. We're talking, checking the purity of the you can think of. They even considered whether their beam was by some other element. It was in fact, almost entirely Krypton, but for granted. The year 2000 came and went with not a single By April 2001 they are ready to begin testing By May, they finally got what they were hoping There was only one single alpha decay chain And the reporter, once again, was Victor Ninov. Now in 1999 Ninov had been the only person familiar with the GOOSY analysis program he But since then it had been nearly 2 years as well. A postdoc named Don Peterson, was among them. He and Ninov would run the program on the different results. Don's results said 118 wasn't there. The dread had set in. Berkeley by this point knows it's in hot step from here on out with multiple rounds for legal reasons as much as it is for technical In June 2001 Darleane Hoffman assembles a data relating to the detection of element They were going to sift through every raw This working group, based on their findings, which then leads to a 3rd committee, and then name "The Committee for the Formal Investigation Over the course of three committees the investigation the experiment" to "okay someone is getting A big thank you to Kit Chapman for providing internal investigation, which he obtained As you can imagine the three committees cover their main arguments into 3 categories. 1. Statistical - what is the likelihood that 2. Technical - Is there evidence that the raw or by accident? 3. Identity - If anyone, who is to blame? We'll start with statistics. When the other labs attempted to verify the This was odd because those labs actually had actually had a higher chance at producing Berkeley was capped at 1.6 x 10^18 Krypton GSI and RIKEN had a combined total of 4.9 If you interpret that statistic in the most able to spin the roulette wheel 3 times as Together they should have seen around 3 times Again, just like a roulette wheel, this doesn't unlikely. Another physicist, H.K Schmidt, ran an analysis of element 110 as well as element 118. It's important to remember that an element's If you measure a random atom a radioactive amount of time. It could be a microsecond, it could be minutes. You need to analyze several atoms and then An ideal distribution would see many very Data for element 110 agrees with this behaviour. When the same test is applied to the 3 atoms up sharply, with most decays clumping in the This data was straight up goofy. Three more Berkeley team members privately Out of 1 million random trials, only 0.82% element 118 data. There was almost no chance this data was real. Next the technical argument: The program used Goosy was known to be unreliable at times. It would occasionally glitch, and data could This corruption could manifest as incorrect arrays. The problems were frequent enough that an It took someone experienced with the program the first place, much less decipher what had But what they were seeing in the data was To quote the New York Times: "It was as the proverbial monkeys banging on typewriters, The idea that GOOSY had crashed, and dozens to give 5 pristine alpha decays chains was We're talking time measurements, energy up to give not just one rogue decay chain, With file corruption ruled out, the only remaining manipulated in some way. Whether intentional or accidental, something random. The investigation became hyper focused on In 1999 there were two runs of interest. Run 013, from April 8-12th detected 3 alpha 2 of those made it into the published paper. A couple weeks later run 015 from April 30th- which also made it into the paper. And finally in 2001 there was run 045 from alpha decay chain. The committee determined by checking the relevant runs was in fact original. The raw cassettes had not been altered. That being said, the original data tape that There is no explanation for where this tape Could be intentional, or an accident. Fortunately, a disk file was found that was and this disk copy was analyzed as well. The committee took these raw data files and No hits for element 118 were found. Now that is really odd. Their next step was to look deeper into the GOOSY outputs a massive running log where this. The left-most column is time. Each line is considered a separate "event" reading somewhere. We're working with extremely fast physical in a single second. This block of events here were supposedly You can tell because the location where they and their energy readings match predictions However, they checked much later in the log and these perfect numbers were no longer there. Huh. The signs of tampering are completely invisible GOOSY. A printout from GOOSY will typically contain During the investigation 5 exceptions were One of those exceptions was a detection of Almost as if extra lines had been added to The event at 12:54 states that a 200 Mb file However the computer GOOSY runs on would not The only explanation is that a file wasn't If you look at the 2nd column for the event following event, 15:03 shows a "$ANL" The committee noted that two dashes only appear type the contents of another file into the So, say someone takes the raw data, and runs GOOSY then outputs a bunch of analyzed data. That text is then copy pasted into a text line by line, until the numbers show what This text is then saved to a file, a command which overwrote GOOSY's logfile to show So the 2001 log file had clear evidence of But, what about 1999? Well it turns out they had just been looking The log files showed all the correct outputs, that made it into the published paper, there Energy values and time values were altered, Values tweaked just enough to suggest alpha The entire fundamental basis for the paper It didn't match the data from GOOSY. This blatant manipulation could occur if say, log files, and that person just so happened later found that every suspicious log file VNinov. Argument 3: Identity. You would think at this point it's an open That the user account name settles the argument but Berkeley had to cover their bases. Throughout the course of the investigation, the culprit, he was placed on paid administrative He also hired legal council. He wasn't going down without a fight. Even without the smoking gun of the of the that Ninov's involvement in the project Notably, when Ninov had announced the detection much scrutiny over the raw data files. Back they submitted the paper, the original by Ninov. When the committee went digging for the raw copies of it existed, and that the only record pieces of paper from Ninov. And yet, no one had double checked where any Later when one of the committees asked Ninov was able to produce approximate version of figure D using any analysis program, instead Interesting that of these 4 graphs, only one Ninov maintained his innocence throughout Ninov was specifically asked by the committee the data. His answer was no. Instead he offered multiple versions of a At first Ninov argued that someone else at element hunting team was getting so much time Later Ninov changed his story, and argued failing to reproduce their results, someone retroactively removed the decay chain from Finally, putting aside sabotage, and putting argued that everyone in the lab technically His account password was apparently an open Someone else could easily have used his account, The committee found that this was possible, of his files. The problem with this argument then, is how alterations when they eventually reviewed Similarly, in October 2001 Berkeley submitted Letters. PRL declines to retract the paper. Their cited reason, is that Victor Ninov refused This is standard policy with journals, all published, including a retraction. So again, if he believes he's been duped on the retraction? Instead Ninov only attended one face-to-face two later invitations. His later statements were written answers consulted with his legal team. Despite this, some of Ninov's responses He claims that several figures in the report as a way to discredit them. There's nothing wrong with the figures, magic recipe, which was well known to disagree And he spends a whole paragraph saying that GOOSY is comparable to "debates about the WordPerfect". Sure man. If anyone had believed him beforehand, no Whatever friendships they had with Ninov beforehand Walter Loveland says he used to speak to Ninov making sense. "At one time he alluded to other people With his back against the wall Ninov turned They wanted nothing to do with him now. The hammer came down quick. Ninov was placed on administrative leave on investigation began. He was officially fired in May of 2002. After being fired he filed a grievance with nothing ever came of this. The paper was finally retracted after nearly None of his coauthors were implicated in the from having a few harsh words for them. They homed in on what they saw as a shocking relying on only a single person, Ninov, for of element 118. Yes, Ninov was the sole expert at GOOSY, but at the raw data files. Part of the issue here may stem from the management The experiment was essentially co-led, with Ninov leading the analysis side. As such he was able to avoid scrutiny. And finally the lab as a whole was criticized for the breakthroughs in 1999, which as we pieces of paper. Heinz Gaggeler was a friend of Ninov's when Ninov would often crash at his house when "Victor was so well received when he came He had full support. And because of that, one didn't look too It was a total disaster. Did it destroy Berkeley? Of course it did. Berkeley was Berkeley. The outside world doesn't want fake news. The show was over." Ken Gregorich prefers not to talk about the "It was a dark period, and it's gone, It's a similar case for Darleane Hoffman. She never got her element. For those at the top it's mortifying to your watch, and on the other hand you have names made it onto that paper. Even if you had just a single shift running name got on the paper. You had nowhere near enough knowledge or responsibility now at the very start of your professional of a retracted paper. Suddenly your resume goes from being a golden warning sign. To some it would be better to just erase 2 And the damage wasn't entirely contained Sigurd Hofmann had been Ninov's boss at Elements 110 to 112 had been verified by other initial publication held up under scrutiny. Their elements were legit. And yet...they also used GOOSY at their lab. And Ninov had been their GOOSY expert. Sigurd recalls one day back when they were Ninov still worked there, and early on, only had found something. Sigurd immediately asked to see a printout But Ninov said he was busy. He'd do it after lunch. A bizarre thing to say when you may have just The printout wouldn't have been time consuming, And yet it took all day for Ninov to get around When Sigurd saw it he was confused. It was missing data, and it didn't quite He told Ninov it wasn't good enough, and publish anything. He didn't think much of it, as just a week Ninov's odd decay chain was only briefly given to it. At the time it was easy to forget about. Now, with the benefit of hindsight, it was 112 too. Sigurd went back and looked at the raw data The raw files just showed radioactive background But on Ninov's computer, these old files Individual numbers had been changed. It was sloppy. Following the advice of his boss, Sigurd went Again, he found a single decay chain for element It was manipulated in the same way. Yeah again, I keep burying the lead here. Ninov had attempted to fake FIVE new elements. Of all the elements Ninov's name is attached wrongdoing, is 111. The only reason Ninov got away with his first real thing. GSI had been more vigilant and thorough than disaster. They ended up publishing a follow-up paper they said "In two cases...we found inconsistency that for reasons not yet known to us, part chains were spuriously created". "Reasons not yet known to us". Sigh...yeah. They did not mention Ninov, but the implication They were not hit nearly as bad as Berkeley, Exactly how much damage is hard to say. When Sigurd requested permission to begin rejected the proposal. As Kit Chapman says in the book Superheavy: it would be misleading and disrespectful to was the only reason GSI fell behind in the The truth is far more complicated". Let's take stock of what we know at this First we have the element race as whole. A highly competitive and volatile field of work just to have first dibs on an element. Secondly, Berkeley. A once dominant, highly respected institution and is thus even more desperate for a win. Third, they've just poached a young up and his name already tied to 3 elements. He is widely considered to be the field's custom software program that only he knows All of this is a recipe for disaster. It's impossible to talk about the Ninov physics fraud from this same year. Jan Hendrik Schon was similarly fired from organic semiconductors. It was these two high profile frauds together, Physical Society to revise its guidelines No one had ever expected someone to be so until now. Moving forward, coauthors have a responsibility not simply defer culpability because they In both cases the fraud occurred because of What I find interesting is how these two cases Although his exact motive was unclear, there Schon was pushed to fake data in order to and those lies snowballed until he couldn't Ninov does not have a similar plausible motive. Again, much like Schon, some suspect that rivals by planting his flag on a discovery Someone was bound to come along and discover If he really was taking a gamble, he severely Al Ghiorso said it best: "Why he did it, It's a real mystery. There was nothing for him to gain, absolutely He was almost glad that his good friend Seaborg "He would have been one of the co-authors. This would have just about killed him." Victor Ninov no longer works in physics, although from Berkeley he briefly worked as a professor since 2006 he has held a variety of engineering He is now in his 60s. Ninov's exact motives will almost certainly So with that in mind, I present to you this his old boss at GSI, is. Hofmann double checked the dates when Ninov Ninov claimed he saw element 110 on November On its own it's odd that 11 would appear But consider the fact that German carnivals coinciding with armistice day. Sigurd thinks Ninov meant it as a joke. A taunt. I admit, it's weak on its own. But element 118, Ninov's other fake, was birthday. Who knows. Maybe we're looking for a pattern where The only labs that had survived the Ninov and Livermore. The same year Ninov was fired, Dubna and Livermore 116 and 118, alongside their still unconfirmed The next year they made a claim for 115 too. Alongside that 113 was thought to be a possible This was a partnership that seemed impossible collaboration was bulldozing everyone else. Of course Berkeley and GSI weren't going of affairs. Right? The Livermore group found themselves at a Unexpectedly they were approached by a researcher the press, no one has seen it. We've just confirmed your discovery of 114." That researcher was Ken Gregorich. After the crushing embarrassment of the Ninov first. IUPAC confirmed 114 and 116 in 2012. The names honoured the California city of The man who started Russia's element hunt The two sides of the Transfermium wars were But, as it goes, a new challenger eventually and GSI. The RIKEN institute in Japan. RIKEN's accelerator was top of the line, time like the other major labs. After a decade-long stalemate, Japan just 113. Although my understanding is a ver controversial The cold war was over, but new rivalries will On the flipside however Dubna did get credit Al Ghiorso, who passed away in 2010 at the him. Ghiorsium had been the proposed name for Berkeley's In the end element 118 was named after Yuri director of the Dubna lab for almost as long He is now only the 2nd living person to have Seaborg in their elite little club. Element 118 marks the end of the 7th, and There is almost certainly an 8th row to the Right now the first claim to that row looks or RIKEN. 119 and 120, when they're found, that new row. There are a few different recipes being tried RIKEN wants to try Vanadium and Curium. Dubna-Livermore wants to try Titanium fired None of these are particularly easy to make Calcium-48 is by and large the best material target of Einsteinium to make 119, and that's There's even an ambitious plan to swap the Make medium sized iron the target, and ultra At this point, nothing is too crazy to rule In all likelihood, when 119 and 120 are found, After that though, who knows what will happen. Maybe we'll need a 3rd row completely detached Going by the magic island theory element 126 Past that, it's supposed to be possible Possible, yes, practical, who knows? Do these mean anything for real-life chemistry? Probably not. As we've learned more and more about the traditional chemistry starts to break down, Whereas before an element's behavior could electron orbitals, by the time you have 118 look like a blob. You might ask why we spend so much time and the point of diminishing returns for decades. I could tell you that, well, some of these cancer treatment, and have saved millions I could tell you that some of these elements nuclear reactors. However the vast majority are not so useful. They will only ever exist for a fraction of But you know by now that utility was never It's like when you're a kid, and you try LEGO blocks before it topples over. We do it because, why not?