As a result of the lies and the trickery that lenders wired in nearly $400 million of loans to ANI over that period, correct? That's the number I've been told, yes. A high profile businesswoman in an alleged fraud scheme. An established leader in San Diego's business Local business leader Gina to 15 years in prison today. Gina Champion-Cain was very well known amongst people who were in leasing and marketing, she always had a huge personality. She was incredibly very outgoing, and in a of in many ways, a macho boys She liked sports. She liked hanging out at the bar. She liked to play poker and smoke cigars. She liked going to Las Vegas. I thought she was very affable, knowledgeable in the real definitely a hard charger, qualified in the arena she was working in. Why didn't she stop? How can you continue to know that you're tricking people and think that you're gonna be able to give them their money back. It's like she treated me And so it was just so disappointing to see this woman that I Despite its sunny reputation, to more than its share In the early 70s, the mayor and much of the city council were indicted for fixing taxi industry prices. Also in the 1970s, a local who was known as Mr. San Diego, presided over what was then in history. Since at least the 1990s, the and using the leftover money to subsidize projects like a the same money was used to help fund the 1996 Our Republican hearts and minds are in the hospitable city of San Diego. The mismanagement of pensions was actually what earned San Diego, the This world of rapid downtown where Gina made her real estate career. San Diego, the most attractive point for investment and speculation I got here in the mid 80s, San Diego was still relatively There were some bigger players, but actually very easy to be at that time. There weren't a lot of Gina knew where to be to rub elbows with the I met her, I believe sometime in the late 80s. And she was actually consulting on some real estate projects The Gaslamp itself was designated as a national historic district. So there was some buzz and there was still a in terms of porn shops, tattoo parlors. Our paths never crossed. We never did a deal together. We were very friendly socially. She had started her own company which was called American the name of which suggests something of her ambition, I think. After she started going into hospitality following the recession, they went from having just really in 2011 and 2012, to having hundreds by She had an office above a nightclub in downtown San Diego of borderline neighborhood She'd really used that as a calling card for many years thereafter to as a major developer in the city. She started appearing 50 People To Watch, 40 Under 40, I think at some point she even appeared on the cover of San Diego Pets Magazine. In 2003, San Diego Magazine ran a cover with a headline &quot;Who Owns Downtown?&quot; And on the cover was Gina beside a much older man My partner, Bud Fisher, who'd been active in the since the mid 70s, he in the San Diego Magazine in that issue, saw right next to it was Gina Champion, right in her full PR glory with Bud. At the time I wasn't that Gina owned. She had at a maximum, maybe in relatively small pieces at that point. For those who were just kind of casually reading San Diego Magazine, it very likely seemed to them that she really was a major It wasn't the real estate I thought she was in it's when she started branching off into these patio restaurants and the patio auxiliary businesses. Walk into the patio on Gold Finch, just a few minutes from downtown San Diego and you'll instantly feel at home. It's really a reflection to eat, this is the atmosphere From the people I talked they couldn't put two and two together to figure out how her restaurant So that was always to me, kind of like, when am I gonna wake up one day and the newspaper's to that question, I would say. Gina pivoted from corporate to more of a focus on hospitality. Simultaneously, she was going into short term vacation rentals. She bought a number of beachfront mansions in the Mission Beach and created sort of a pet I mean, you could have got an operator. You could have got somebody I'm curious why you where the busboy's late and all this kind of nonsense? Well, Jim, you and I have and I have a little problem and And I don't like just giving up things. She also opened a couple of boutiques, at least one of which was Those were called Love Surf. I met her within my I pretty much started at I was the manager and buyer. I think she just came in And I just thought she was awesome, very charismatic, very welcoming. I just kind of felt right at home. I always thought that these I don't know how somebody of a return but I trusted it because a lot of people and very well respected trusted her. Every six months, you were And so you get a promissory to doing this. And it says how much you're investing. It agrees to give you if you decide to pull out. And I had inherited some money and I'm like, okay, I should to do this. I invested 20,000. I invested pretty close to when this whole scheme broke out. So I never got the chance to roll over. In general, her businesses really Gina had an assistant, unsurprisingly, but apparently at some point to hire an assistant of her own. And that person, Gina's then got two assistants. So it was sort of unclear to what all these people we're in the process of opening Gina learned a little bit about the way liquor California liquor licenses up to hundreds of thousands A lot of would-be restaurant owners or even current restaurant owners might have trouble coming on short notice. It occurred to Gina that there in making high interest short term loans to folks who needed to deposit these funds into escrow accounts. She approached a friend of who was a prominent investor and real estate developer himself in San Diego and And Peterson came on and it appeared to him that the loans he was making and they were paying off. Peterson proposed to in bringing on additional And from there, the as Peterson was able to interest a number of institutional investors, and so forth to really increase the amount of capital going into Gina's platform. A very substantial amount of capital came from institutional investors, in Austin called Ovation as The problem with this the Liquor Licensing to deposit five or 10% let's say, and they only have to come when they actually or the restaurant that the There is no strong demand for to cover these escrow costs. As far as we can tell, there were no loans ever actually made through this platform. A little bit under $400 million through the account. Early investors certainly I don't think it was I think it was to keep making people a lot of money, which I was doing. In early 2019, there was a and real estate developer about $100 million in the fund. But before they pulled the trigger, they wanted an expert read. And so they hired a guy who is one of the foremost experts on California liquor to design sort of a due And in the course of that due diligence, Brewer and his client concluded that Gina's loan program any liquor license escrows and that the most likely explanation for its success was that All of a sudden we just got an email from our HR department. I don't remember the exact verbiage but it was something like The SEC is investigating this, just please don't talk to any press. The Securities and Exchange Commission says the company defrauded dozens of retail investors out of I completely thought I I was like, there's no way I thought I was gonna have my job forever. I loved that company. And it's kind of like the denial phase. You think that it can't be true. Somebody I love and I to people that they are supposed to love. Part of the success of the fund I think, was Gina's very good standing in the business community in San Diego. Part of it was also Kim people really respected Kim Peterson. They thought of him as an honest guy and as a very careful investor. Gina had very close relationships with a handful of which was the company for her. And she maintained those relationships in part by giving very nice gifts. Free baseball tickets, when the Chargers were still in San Diego, Petco Park, we had corporate suites there. I gave lots of bottles jewelry, cash, lots of free In a message that was cited Gina said to two Chicago employees, &quot;If anyone calls asking and alcohol licenses, blah, blah, blah, just tell them show me We should emphasize actually, that many investors put their at least that's what they would say now, than they did in Gina Champion-Cain. Chicago title is one of the largest title insurance Chicago Title as the was not supposed to allow money in or out of any account for any purpose other than In retrospect, Gina's Ponzi Scheme might have All it might have taken was a phone call to one or two people who were supposedly financing their liquor with her fund to find out When we think of the largest it's mens' names that come to mind, most notably Bernie to be the most prolific female a very substantial amount of capital came from but there were a lot of people who put in money as well. She reached out to me through text message and asked if I wanted to come over. She said she wanted to And so I was like, okay, I'm of the doubt because it's like, okay, I still don't have all the facts. And then she sat me down. We shared some wine and from when she started And she said that it And then she just liked this feeling of getting money and and building this empire. And she said she got too carried away and it slipped way out of her hands. She was promising me all my money back. She was promising me of a Netflix documentary. And still I was like, how is she gonna have a Netflix deal? She's gonna be in prison. Gina lived a very nice lifestyle. She had property in Carmel, California. She had property out in Palm Desert. She had a very nice home in Mission Hills, but most of the money to the businesses. Well, I truly believed I was gonna take a couple these companies public and pay everybody back. Not that what I was doing Her businesses went into receivership and have been gradually sold off, chopped up, and sold for pieces. I still can't believe she as long as she could, Sorry, it is disappointing to see somebody that you loved and really And I don't wanna associate other people with being liars and deceiving me. And it was really hard when I was applying for jobs again because every company well how do you get your money? How do you operate this business? We know that the Department of Justice is actively investigating a number of former Chicago Title employees. There are also a number against Chicago Title. She pled guilty and was in Federal prison. She is currently in a in Northern California called FCI Dublin. I am living my life as a at Dublin. I teach classes, I mentor people, and I'm a very strong member