Oh. You think darkness You merely adopted the dark. I was born in it. Molded by it. Ahem. That's my impression of Bane in when he's chastising Batman for using the dark Now my impression sucks, but more associated with the movie With 13 on screen appearances Batman is one of the longest And when you take films from and compress them into one they can serve as a sort of proxy for a story about the and TV in general. In the 1960s, Batman movies burst but by 2022's &quot;The Batman&quot;... I mean, just look at it. It's a movie that lives So much darkness that have complained that it's almost too dark. You can see the same pattern and in Game of Thrones... and the Spider-Man franchises. So, yeah, it's not just you complaining. Movies and TV shows and there are a few reasons why. Check out this graph by Stephen Follows a data researcher for the film industry. He charted the top 100 grossing films and what type of camera they were shot on. This point here. It's where movies flipped And this shift from is part of the reason The biggest difference between shooting dark scenes is not knowing exactly My name is Brett Jutkiewicz. I'm a cinematographer. Some of my recent work includes &quot;The Black Phone&quot;, &quot;Scream&quot; When shooting a movie on film, there is way less room for error and way more opportunities For one, there are no monitors that'll what a shot is going to look like There are video taps but they're really just a reference It's really not representative of how the image will actually look. It's using a light meter and measuring the light in trusting that you're getting If you do shoot a dark scene there isn't much room because the information in the is essentially lost. The overall image just becomes grainier. And in Hollywood, there's You really can't do just paying for the day, There's really no room for going back and redoing something if or if it's not exactly what you want. Take a look at these two shots. This one from 2002's &quot;Spider-Man&quot; This one from 2012's was shot on digital. See how much brighter Spider-Man and Mary Jane's With film, the safest bet is to shoot even if scenes are meant to be dark. Shooting digitally allows you to take more chances with darkness usually have high-quality The way that it allows people as it will be when it's finished lends itself to taking more risks. Plus, digital cameras are generally They do capture more into the highlights and more into the shadows Digital cameras like the one we're using shoot in what's called This essentially is when is capturing a really flat, in order to preserve information Once you bring that footage into you have tons of room to push And instead of losing detail in the darkest parts of the image you can push it way brighter and And the overall image doesn't Now, I know what you're thinking. Lots of very successful dark scenes from &quot;The Godfather&quot; to &quot;The Dark Knight&quot; It's not impossible to do It's just harder and riskier. Regardless of film or digital. Shooting dark scenes is always a balance between information and There was an episode There's shots in that sequence only seeing just a sliver of his face. And this sea of darkness and watching it, There's instances where you really want to focus and using darkness as a tool to kind of guide the eye Darkness only feels like a problem when it feels like we're missing out that we think we're supposed to see. It's tricky because at the same time as you want to create a mood you don't want to also get enjoying the show. It's a balance. Filmmakers are using the best screens the world has to offer in when tweaking the brightness of the content So filmmakers choose to make something and they expect that vision to trickle down you end up watching it on It's impossible to know how people are going to watch it in the end. And if you make it look good on then when people are it's not going to look So, yes, what you're watching is dark... but it's also exactly what the filmmaker There's hope that movie darkness &quot;Ad Astra&quot; and &quot;Nope&quot; were filmed and infrared cameras. Infrared cameras allow filmmakers from the sections of the light spectrum It also creates a black sky, When blending the two images together it can produce a darkness that allows you to peer much deeper into the dark expanse than