Have you ever experienced that what is happening Even if you visited a place for the first this place earlier. And sometimes it also feels that whatever before in the same manner. I used to have such experiences many years when I used to sit and talk with my friends that we had done all these things with the But I do not have such experiences for a long You are not alone in this world who has such Actually this is, what we call deja vu and it at least once in their lifetime. In this video, we will know what deja vu is. Why does deja vu happen? And what are different theories that explain So first of all lets understand, what is deja Deja vu is actually a french word that means So in deja vu, we feel that whatever we are or felt. Different theories have been used to understand We will see all the theories in brief here. Dream based theory at night, we see it in our dreams. That is the reason why we mosty dream about But when we wake up in the morning, we forget Suppose you are fond of playing badminton with someone. And coincidentally the very next day or a badminton with you. So while playing badminton with him you may person before, even if you have never played As you have already played badminton with already stored somewhere in your brain. So you experience deja vu. Reincarnation Theory again after death and some memories of his mind. These hidden memories sometimes may come in thing has already happened but it becomes happened. You can not remember it, as it is related This results in the experience of Deja vu. Glitch Theory famous statement "time is an illusion". Some scientists Believe that, time is not simultaneously. So according to this theory sometimes when already happened, as past present and future Now we will discuss the psychological reason Memory mismatch Deja vu because of memory mismatch. Before explaining this theory, let me tell term memory and long term memory. Short term memory is a limited and small amount while long term memory has almost unlimited years. As the short-term memory cannot hold the memory short term memory to the long-term memory. But sometimes the sensory information directly the short term memory and we experience that It is nothing but the deja vu. Hence deja vu acts as a circuit breaker in Our Next theory is based on conscious and Our conscious mind is active when we are aware This is the reason when we fall asleep, we case our conscious mind is not active. It also Falls asleep. But it is not the case with our subconscious Subconscious mind never sleeps. It is active 24 hours a day even when you Our subconscious mind controls many vital us to live...like breathing, cell's growth, everything that we can not control consciously We are not even aware of many of these actions These all functions are controlled automatically As we have already discussed that our subconscious our conscious mind can not access. There is a thin layer between conscious and But sometimes there comes a situation when conscious mind gets momentarily access to In this rare situation our brain gets confused reality or dream? It creates an illusion that we have experienced And we feel Deja vu. Let's now discuss a different theory to explain The theory of parallel universe not a single universe where we are living There may be infinite number of universes It is believed that our different versions these versions of ourselves have already experienced could experience. So we may experience Deja vu, when two parallel We feel that we have already experienced it that part of our life in another parallel Other theories are also there that explain Some relate deja vu with paranormal activities So friends now you know, what is Deja vu and vu. I hope you enjoyed the video. If yes, then please like and share the video button. Thanks for watching the video till the end. See you soon in the next video, bye bye.