My name is Scott Galloway, I teach at NYU, I have 44 slides and 720 seconds. Let's light this candle. (Laughter) OK so for those of you who don't know me, I'm actually a global television store. True story. I've had four TV series Two of them have been canceled and two were canceled within six weeks. Let's recap. (Video) If we want to juice this thing, if we want to put a cattle prod Bloomberg. The most trusted name in financial news. Not for long. Andrew Yang: I'm going to do Scott Galloway: Jesus, come on, dude, (Video ends) Face for podcasting. So first insight of the day. I'd like to be the first person (Laughter) OK. By the way, it's clear -- What are we here for? "The Brave and the Brilliant?" It's clear that Chris is a frustrated (Laughter) Essentially what we have here where, after a night of unbridled passion between Bill Gates and Malcolm Gladwell, they give birth to their Simon Sinek. (Laughter) OK, I start us with a question. Do we love our children? Sounds like an illegitimate Well, I'm going to try Essentially, as we go down generations, we're seeing that for the last people are making less money In addition, the cost of buying a home, the cost of pursuing education, So the purchasing power, the prosperity, Simply put, as we get younger, we're taking away opportunity The social contract and for the first time a 30-year-old is no longer doing as well This is a breakdown in the fundamental and it creates rage and shame. (Applause) As a result, people over the age of 55 but less than one in five people feel very good about America. This creates an incendiary. Righteous movements, cuts to our society end up becoming because generally speaking, they're pissed off and they're angry that they don't enjoy that were provided to our generation. A decent proxy for how much we value and we've kept it purposely pretty low. If it had just kept pace it'd be at about 23 bucks a share. But we've decided Out of reach. Median home price has skyrocketed As a result, pre-pandemic, the average it's now 2,300 dollars because of an acceleration and the fact that the average home By the way, the most expensive based on this metric, Why? Because 60 percent of the cost Because guess what, the incumbents to make it very difficult for new entrants thereby elevating their own net worth. This is the transfer I'm going (Applause) This has resulted in an enormous where people over the age of 70 used to control 19 percent versus people under the age Their wealth has been cut in half. This isn't by accident, it's purposeful. This is me at UCLA in 1987. I know your first thought is (Laughter) This is also Mia Silverio, who is the analyst By the way, Mia is 26. I did the math, just by virtue it brings the average age (Laughter) When I applied to UCLA, Today, it's nine percent. I received a 2.23 GPA from UCLA. I learned nothing but how to make and every line from &quot;Planet of the Apes.&quot; And the greatest public school decided to let me in with a 2.27 GPA. And that's what higher ed is about. Higher ed is about taking and giving them a shot (Applause) And every year it's gotten more expensive. Higher ed and homes and the ability -- not only is higher ed it's not accessible. Because me and my colleagues and I'll come back to that. We've embraced the ultimate strategy. Me and my colleagues in higher ed and ask ourselves the same question How can I increase my compensation (Laugter) And we have found the ultimate strategy. It's called an LVMH strategy, where we artificially constrain supply such that we can raise tuition And old people and wealthy people All of a sudden, once you own a home, you become very concerned with traffic, and you make sure that there's no And here is a memo we're public servants, (Applause) Harvard is the best example of this. They've increased their endowment and have decided their freshman class, by four percent. Any university that doesn't grow faster than population that has over a billion dollars should lose their tax-free status because they're no longer They're a hedge fund offering classes. (Cheers and applause) My first recommendation: Biden should take some of that 750 billion earmarked to bail out the one third on the backs of the two thirds that didn't and give a billion dollars to our 500 size-adjusted, in exchange One, they use technology and scale expand enrollments by six percent a year and increase the number and nontraditional four-year Where does that get us? In just ten years, in just ten years, that doubles and cuts the cost in half. This isn't radical. This is called college Another transfer of wealth. Look at what's happened to wages. Oh, they've gone up? Not as much as corporate profits. There's a healthy tension But for the last 40 years, capital Well, you think, what about wages, right? They've gone up. Well if you compare them It's been an amazing time to own assets. But your attempt to get such that you can acquire assets In my class of 300 kids, it's never it's never been harder By the way, our job in higher ed isn't to identify a top one who are freakishly remarkable and turn them into a super It's to give the bottom 90 (Applause) You know who doesn't need me The top 10 percent. The whole point of higher ed is to give who was raised by a single a shot of being remarkable. The transfer has been purposeful. While the cohorts, corporations continue to garner more we have decided, let's give them the silver and the bronze, This transfer is purposeful. It's not by accident, and it works. Senior poverty is way down, Meanwhile, child poverty The third rail. I'm going to talk about Social Security. It would cost 11 billion dollars But that gets stripped out But the additional 135 billion dollars that flies right through Congress. And every year we transfer from a cohort that is to the cohort that is in the history of this planet. I'm not against Social Security, not whether you have a catheter. 80 percent of you, 80 percent of you to ever take Social Security. It is bankrupting our nation. And we have fallen under this mythology that somehow it's this No it's not. It's the great transfer of wealth (Applause) How is this happening? Because our representatives Old people vote. Washington has become a cross between the &quot;Land of the Dead&quot; (Laughter) Quite frankly, this is fucking ridiculous. And if I sound ageist -- (Applause) If I sound ageist, I am. And you know who else is ageist? Biology. (Laughter) When Speaker Pelosi had her first child, get this, two thirds of households and Castro had just declared martial law. But she's supposed to understand the challenges of a 17-year-old girl getting tips on dieting and extreme She's supposed to understand that a 27-year-old single mother faces? By the way, young and dreamy. (Laughter) Young and dreamy. (Applause) The great intergenerational theft I know, let's use the greatest to really speed-ball the transfer. This is the Nasdaq from 2008 to 2012. We let the markets crash. And by the way, you need churn, you need disruption because it seeds from the incumbents to the entrants. It's a natural part of the cycle. But wait, lately, no, a million people dying would be bad. But what would be tragic and guys like me lost wealth. So we pumped the economy, which again, increased The best two years of my life? Covid -- more time with my kids, and the value of my stocks And who has to pay for my prosperity? Not me. Future generations who will have to deal Why am I here, and why do I Because in 2008 we bailed out the banks, but we didn't bail out the economy. We let the markets fall. So as I was coming into my prime I got to buy, no joke, This is where those stocks are now. Where does a young person find disruption? When you bail out the baby boomer all you're doing is robbing opportunity of a culinary academy that wants her shot. We need disruption. (Laughter) I just like this slide. It has no context or relevance. (Laughter and cheers) We're economically attacking the young, but I know, let's attack their emotional Let's take advantage with medieval institutions, and godlike technology. I'm just going to say, I think Mark Zuckerberg has done more while making more money (Applause) Oh, but wait, it could be worse. It's as if we let an adversary implant to raise a generation of civic, military and business leaders that hate America. How can we be this stupid? (Laughter) This all adds up to a bunch of graphs And what are they? What's the first one? Oh, that's self-harm rates, especially among girls since my colleague it's really, really gone crazy What's the next one? Teens with depression. The next one, men and women Biggest fear of my parents was that I was My biggest fear, honestly, is that my kids aren't going My advice to every young person is go out, drink more that might pay off. (Laughter and applause) Next graph, cumulative gun deaths. You're more likely to be shot if you're a toddler Next graph, obesity, way up. By the way, the industrial food complex so they can hand you over We should not romanticize obesity. You're not finding your fucking truth. You're finding diabetes. (Laughter and applause) Overdose deaths, way up. Deaths of despair. When I was in high school, now it's kids killing themselves. Young people don't want Two-thirds of people used to decide to have at least one child. It's been cut in half. It's now less than a third, 27 percent. As a result, people over the age of 60 People under the age of 30, not so much. Some of the lowest in the free world. What can we do? Nothing wrong with America that can't We got the hard stuff figured out. There are programs to address they cost a lot of money, And we have figured this out. In just five minutes we can add a quarter We've got the hard part We have the money, This is per-capita spending relative to other nations. This is housing permits. Things are doable. We increase minimum wage it goes into the economy. The wonderful things about low- is they spend all their money. We have to have or restore with alternative minimum tax We need to refund the IRS. We need to reform Social Security. It should be based on whether not on how old you are. We need a negative income tax. My friend Andrew Yang but he branded it incorrectly. Instead of calling it UBI, he should've got Republicans on board (Laughter) We need to eliminate When did we decide is more noble than the money Shouldn't it be flipped? (Applause) We need to remove 230 protection We need identity verification. The reason we can have is because we have a First Amendment. Break up Big Tech. We have monopolies that are incurring on every small business and parents our representatives don't We need to age-gate social media. There's absolutely no reason should ever be on social media. (Applause) We need universal pre-K. We need to reinstate We need term limits, We need income-based affirmative action. Any visible signs of affirmative You would rather be born gay or non-white, in the United States today than poor. And that's a sign of our progress and our need to recalibrate Affirmative action, I got Pell Grants, affirmative action is a wonderful thing, it should be based on green. How much money you have or don't have. Expand college enrollment Mental health, ban phones in schools, Big Brothers and Sisters programs. We need national service. We need to tell people that they live in the greatest and we need to remind them by exposing them to other great Americans We can do all of this. We can do all of it. We have the resources. The question is, do we have the will? This is my last slide. It is an emotionally manipulative slide (Laughter) But it does have a message. This is the whole shooting match. Anybody here without kids, You have your world of work, you have your world of friends, Something happens here, your whole (Applause) So I present, as I wrap here, One, if you acknowledge that our kids that everything else but our kids' well-being If you acknowledge than previous generations. If you believe there's a chance that the illusion of complexity for the unbelievable of well-being and of prosperity And if you believe we can and we have the resources, then I present to you, I posit, I augur the question that I hope than it did 17 minutes And that's the following question. Do we love our children? My name is Scott Galloway, I teach at NYU, (Cheers and applause) Thank you. (Applause)