- This is a robot that can grow to hundreds of times its size, and it can't be stopped Although it looks kind it has dozens of potential applications, including, one day maybe saving your life. This video is sponsored by Morning Brew, the free daily newsletter. Now I made a video before And this is also a soft robot, but very different in how These robots can be made but they all follow the Powered by compressed air, (air hissing) - That's good. - And this allows the robot and also over sticky surfaces. - Something like a car (car winding) It gets stuck in the wheels. Now, if I do the same see the robot is able to extend... - It can navigate this effortlessly, which suggests some of the applications it's well-suited for. Now you might think spikes of an inflatable robot, but even if it's punctured, as long as you have the robot keeps going. - And you might be able to hear it. (air hissing) so I'll have to turn up the pressure. (object rustling) This by itself is not yet a robot, but once we add steering, and maybe some intelligence as then we could say it's a robot. So this is sort of the This is what allows us to - So where did the idea - I had a vine in my and it was kind of out of the sunlight. And over the course of like a year or so, it slowly grew out this tender roll out and around the edge of the shelf and towards the sunlight. I said, &quot;That's a pretty cool So I started thinking, &quot;Well is there a way you - The solution is really Just take some airtight tubing It's kind of like a water wiggle, those toys that are really hard to hold. (air hissing) with compressed air, it starts And if you want the tube to you could just tape the to shorten one of the sides. For example, you could tape to create a deployable antenna. What about getting them to retract? - Yeah, that's a challenging problem. When you're in a constrained environment, all you really have to do is pull on, we call it the tail, so the material that is passing through the core of the body, you pull on it and it basically ungrows, it just goes back inside itself. Now, if you're in a big and you try pulling on that, instead of inverting, so retracting, it tends to kind of coil - And the engineers have come up with ways to retract the tube to using internal rollers. But the two doesn't have the whole way along, here there's actually think of it like a pillow that's packed into the end of the robot. - Yeah, if you could - Cross-legged on the table. This sounds (groans) super sketchy. - So it grows underneath and then as the pillow (object clattering) Is this not good, or is this okay? It can actually lift me up. So my balance is not great as we can see. - You're standing on it. - Stand on it? - What's amazing is that this above atmospheric, just a 10th of an atmosphere applied over a large can lift something as all the while remaining soft. (object rustling) Whoa, (sighs) that was great. That's the paradoxical You can get a large overall as long as the area is large enough. What sort of area is - It's 600 square inches. All right, so with one - Yeah. - Two PSI is 1200 pounds. And the whole time it feels really soft. - Yeah, 'cause there's - It's important that so it doesn't hurt anyone. - So you can design these things to have cross-section that So it can be a very small body that could grow into, for and potentially lift a large object off someone who's trapped, or maybe in a car crash It can apply huge forces with very soft and lightweight cheap material. - These robots can also be deployed in search and rescue operations by attaching sensors like - These robots are actually So you can take them, potentially a class building and they will continue to go somewhere. And alternative is they're so cheap, I mean, they're basically free. You could grow a hundred into a collapsed building and maybe only one of them finds somebody. I mean, that's a huge success if it does. - But how do you keep a camera connected to the front of the robot when Well, one way is to use an end cap which allows that camera pushed from behind by the robot, but there are other The tiny wireless camera is but this frame interlocks which is actually inside of the robot body. It's similar to how a go around the track. So this prevents the as the robot grows. What's really interesting is how the vine robot They attach artificial (air hissing) So the way this muscle works is that if you inflate which leads to it contracting in length. - We don't actually use these much anymore because although it's soft, So what we use instead are simply tubes of this with the braid oriented at 45 degrees. So in this sense we just have one single (air hissing) This is the main robot body here, then we have three pneumatic Now, these three muscles are each connected to their own air supply connected to regulators over here. As the robot extends from the tip, we can steer it by shortening So, you know, just the way your hand works is if I shorten this tendon in my arm my hand will move this way, or if I shorten the one on this side it'll move the other way. So our vine robot, we have so as they inflate then if I deflate the it'll turn the other way. - So the vine robot can It doesn't typically get stuck on anything and isn't bothered by sharp objects. And once you attach that it's ideal for things like archeology. (group chattering) The robot was actually taken to Peru to investigate some very narrow shafts. - So we were looking at that was built somewhere in the Andes mountains of Peru, and it was an ancient temple that had all these underground spaces. And part of what the was trying to understand and what the people who built them were trying to do with them. So part of that was unknown, but there were these giant rooms and then there were these that were offshoots of these rooms, and they wanted to know but they were too small So we were able to to explore three of the tunnels that couldn't have been which was super exciting. And we got video inside the entire tunnels and gave it to the archeology team. - There's an application where I feel like this I wonder why it didn't exist before. - Intubation is literally into a patient. The purpose is to breathe for the patient when the patient isn't breathing. And so traditionally a highly would take their laryngoscope, come above the patient, and once they see the trachea, you start to pass your tube down inside. I'm almost there, I can see the light. So if you can see right now I just got it in to the trachea. - Oh yeah. And it took me a couple of minutes and I was really kind of as if there's somebody Every second counts. - But by using a miniature researchers are hoping to make - You know, somebody could pretty simply insert this device aimed towards the nose and... (object squealing) just like that. If you can see, we've already intubated, and all it took was a little (man laughs) Just like that. - It almost looks like - Yeah, right. This reminds me a lot of those inflatable kind of like play-doh - How does it know to - Yeah, so that's one of about soft robotics, is the robot is quite compliant. And we see that in a lot of these demos, you know, they can squish, they can bend. And so how we've designed it is that the main robot grows and then we have this side branch that heads towards the trachea, and it's quite flexible and so it basically finds the opening. So it's a really neat example of kind of a passive intelligence, mechanical intelligence where it can find its path even if we don't know - Have you tried this - Not on a real person, but we've actually tried And we've shown that we can move from this nice idealized version to an actual in-vivo situation and successfully intubate a patient. - There's another application which is burrowing into sand or soil. When you blow compressed air it fluidizes, it becomes like a liquid, and that can allow the vine robot to grow into granular materials like sand. - If you've ever been to the beach and you try to stick like you it's fairly difficult. - And I'm trying to push that no fluid decision. - Yeah, it feels like it - Let's now turn on the air. (air hissing) - Oh yeah. You can feel it immediately. Oh, wow. Yeah, that's a lot. - So what we've done here is essentially, we just blow a jet of air and that loosens up the sand enough to reduce the force of the sand so that the robot just by tip extension can make its way through. (air hissing) - This makes vine robots an when they look for ways of other planets. (machine roaring) Recently on Mars they tried to have a burrowing Could you do it better - Yeah, that's a good question. So the Mars InSight mission, the idea there was to be able down into the core, that could detect the temperature of Mars. However, the problem they ran into there is that it turned out the was more cohesive than they expected. Inside the robot something would wind up wind up and pound it down. But it turned out there between the probe and the sand. So what was really happening was it would wind up pound wind up pound down. So it never actually got anywhere. The advantage of something is you'd have your base, and you just keep extending your way down. You're not necessarily with what is surrounding - What amazes me about vine robots is how a plant inspired It's so easy in fact that in as little as a minute. There are instructions But from that basic design have come a huge variety of robots with different applications, from archeology to search and rescue, or intubation to space exploration. And what else can you (electronic buzzing) Hey, this video is the free daily newsletter on business, finance and For some years now, my main has been scrolling through news websites. And to prevent that, I've tried cutting news but I still wanna stay informed. So Morning Brew offers It's delivered to my inbox every and it's witty and informative Plus it gives me so I don't have to check news to make sure that I'm not missing which is currently running in nearly nine years. Or the impending Boba shortage due to supply chain Boba is a big deal in this household. So if you're interested in then why not try out Morning Brew. You can sign up for at morningbrew.com/veritasium. I will put that link in the description. So I wanna thank Morning Brew and I wanna thank you for watching.