- We look at the back. - Dude! - [Manu] I was not kidding. - [Mark] Oh my gosh. - [Manu] So this might be.. - I'm holding in my hand a microscope that is waterproof, stomp-proof. I put it together in two minutes and it costs 50 cents to make. And in this hand, I have a blood centrifuge than a $10,000 centrifuge, Both of these were in the lab of a brilliant named Manu Prakash, with the goal to help improve the life of the world's poorest, scalable inventions. Incredibly, it's believed, of the estimated 100 billion people who have lived on this planet, more than half have died of malaria. The symptoms are similar to the flu, and so this gold standard for diagnosis is to take a drop of blood, and then look at it under a microscope. Historically, this has in the places that need it most, because the equipment can cost and it needs electricity. These two inventions can diagnose malaria, cost less than a dollar, - Manu, good to finally meet you. - Absolutely. - You're like a superhero. - Oh, I don't know about that. - From an engineering perspective, Now before I continue with Manu, let me just support that how this 50-cent paper So it comes like this, and then you pop out the pieces of paper, and then follow the simple instructions like folding origami. The lens is actually embedded in this plastic. (gentle music) And you can put your slide in here, and then you look through and it's magnified 140 times. You can even put your and then capture video like this. (gentle music) (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) Your lab at Stanford, what do Just like the high level. - I grew up in India. And one of the things is getting exposed to scientific tools. When I started the lab, it was very clear that we have this hunger for scientific tools that's missing. And so we spend almost and designing scientific tools under the umbrella of 'frugal science'. It can't cost a ton of money because every zero that you probably hundreds and and billions of people cut off. - We wanted to test drive So we got a scoop of seemingly And there was one tiny white to the bottom of our bag. So Manu suggested we take a closer look. - They can sense suction. - And they run away. - It's kind of like a fly It senses your hand And that's what's actually happening. It realizes, just like it's about to it runs away. But I think I'm gonna get it. It's.. - You got it. - There it is. Okay. - [Mark] Oh, there he - [Manu] Oh, perfect. - [Mark] And remember, to the naked eye, you can barely see this tiny white speck. Whoa! - That's the single eye. You see that? - [Mark] Yeah! - [Manu] That little spot right there? And then we look at the - [Mark] Dude! - [Mark] Oh my gosh! - [Manu] So this might be Those are antenna. - [Manu] So when I said, when I was sucking it in and it ran away. - Yeah. It senses the pressure variation. - It sense the pressure - That is so crazy. You know Like the first time I saw - [Manu] Yeah? - Right, so you can see - [Manu] Yeah. - And you see even pictures of the stars. But until you actually see it's just like something - Yeah. - And I feel like we're - Yeah, yeah. - But just the other way. - No, I think that's - Okay. So with this you can actually see any We generally think of but it's actually full of white blood cells, and platelets. And so the problem is in you have a billion red blood cells. So it becomes a needle in a haystack to try and find a few that have malaria. So that's where centrifuge comes in. So you take some blood and the particles will be But when you spin it around really fast for a couple minutes, the centrifugal force pushes to the outside and they displace towards the middle. So when you stop, all the particles are neatly organized from the most dense at the edge, to the least dense in the center. And since a malaria-infected is slightly less dense than a healthy one, you'll always find it in between the healthy red blood All that's to say, centrifuges So I went to the lab to talk to see how they applied their to this typically really - These are traditional centrifuges. These require electricity. And you can see how massive that is. Imagine if you had to if you're in a research limited settings. - [Mark] Right. - In India, for example, where I grew up. And so if you want to do this, you can't use something like this, which costs thousands of dollars And so while we were out But you couldn't just take blood or urine or stool and do it. That became the bottleneck. And so the design problem statement that you come up with is, I want something probably preferably made out of so it's easy to carry in your pocket. It should match the You think about different and you go into your and start thinking about toys. Toys are a great way. So we start looking at and others have thought What we found in this is that it's one of of converting your energy - [Mark] Right. - [Mark] I see. - [Saad] Using strings as actuation, - [Mark] Right. rather than mechanical gears, or.. I was just trying this out and as soon as I saw that in 10 seconds, you kind of know in the back of your mind that this is something powerful. And it transitions beyond a toy. That's something that has - [Mark] Right. - Let's recreate that moment. - We're gonna take some blood - We should take your blood. (upbeat music) (upbeat music continues) So after spinning only for you could see my blood This is my own blood. I've never seen my blood All right, here we go. (gentle music) So each one of those is a blood cell? - [Saad] Yeah. - [Mark] What I love is their childlike about the world around them. They're also incredibly observant, looking for ways their engineering talents might uniquely help or inspire others. It's a contagious optimism - The two examples of this It's too more early morning for me. - [Mark] That's your alarm? - That is my alarm. - In an extreme case, if it's