When I first started getting interested in I was mainly focused on just getting rid of the life to my happiness. Having things all that stuff. But living a simpler, slower other changes as well. Some of them were quite because it allows you to find the real and don't find important in life. So today, I I've quit since I've simplified my life. And all made my life better, more meaningful it. Before we get into it, today's video is kindly Tea. And I love teaming up with them, because for years now. And they are my absolute favorite. and their mission is to support local producers alive. All of their green teas are very high bright green color and are full of healthy personal favorites that I would like to recommend. ceremonial grade matcha that proves that you can friendly price. This one is silky smooth, lightly you can use it for marcha lattes. You can also favorite marchas ever. My second recommendation is green tea it is super balanced, a little bit sweet tea for its price point. I always get this one. tea and I love this especially in the fall and really rich, kind of nutty, almost most chocolatey to green tea, all their teas come with brewing forget, these are so high quality that you can times. I cannot recommend Ikkyu enough. Either for could be a really nice holiday gift. And if shin-zen, then you can get 15% off. So huge thank odd thing that I've quit since simplifying my life reading books, that make me feel bad. One thing life is that I've become much more aware of as they may be. So in this case, when it comes just make me feel really comforted or inspired or tense or frustrated or annoyed or anxious. And But an example of this might be a show like The because I could appreciate like the cinematic technically speaking. But I started noticing, that I was feeling so tense when I was watching muscles and clenching my fists. And this also goes quite violent and somehow I'm just kind of okay really I find them very triggering. For example But I stopped watching it after a few episodes, health anxiety. I think it's okay to cut out stuff it's entertainment that's supposed to be enjoyable for me. Something really great about simplifying noise, we start to really zoom in on ourselves. with our values and how we want things to make or saving them for special occasions. I used to perfume collection of like 15 bottles of perfume. ones, I hardly ever used. I was saving them for I had still hardly ever used that perfume, and it really beautiful dress or sweater, and then just because I was afraid that maybe I would get a occasions. After a while, I became much more aware really think about it just how silly and what a the things you love the most, on these special use it as often as possible. Get as much much get like a stain or something, there's usually even if it is ruined, at least you will have used example. So I'm not going to like save this really it up and really enjoy it in my normal regular even a risk of your body changing in the meantime know if you will still be able to actually wear now. I think that every day is a special occasion, and breathing and that is enough reason to to waste just sitting in a closet somewhere, while three, wearing uncomfortable clothing and shoes more aware of the effect that things like movies became much more aware just how much my clothing items were making me feel. And it's so funny important. I always just wore what I saw others should dress. So if my feet were in pain because you know uncomfortably tight fitting clothing, I just basically felt like you know that's part and ignore it as much as possible. Of course some and I think that's fine. But it's been a long time painful or like incredibly uncomfortable. And Because it's not just like the superficial feeling feels on your body can have such an impact on I'm wearing something uncomfortable, I have such tense. I have a harder time concentrating. I have feel like because I have simplified, I know myself in my body and that naturally changes the way not wearing any uncomfortable or painful clothing replying to emails or messages straight away. story. And you don't want to leave people hanging. this. I much prefer to batch this a little bit. as soon as they come in, I just do it a couple that have come in in the meantime. And this helps distracted because I feel like I have to reply feeling anxious about this. So I don't know where on WhatsApp. So we send each other text messages you can see if someone has read your message and you can turn that off, but I don't know, I just Like oh they know I've read their message. And so And now, I can just, yeah it doesn't bother me. I to reply to me instantly, and so I don't expect kind of stopped caring about this I guess. And on the context of course. Sometimes it can be rude it's not important, I'll just reply sometime accepting free samples in the stores. Now this one where I've lived all my life, the Netherlands. we like free stuff. So I personally don't know But for me, I stopped accepting free samples free out foods or beverages on the street. If it is not for if it wasn't free. Because when you think there's really no such thing as a truly free will take up space. Or if it's a product sample, it will take up mental space because now you have that I wouldn't have been willing to pay for, then me. So why then would I want it for free? I don't like if my eyeshadow palette is used up perfume and makeup samples that they give you me really confused. Like why would you say no, as to say like yeah that brand isn't cruelty-free, animals. And then they're even more confused, I want them to know why I'm turning it down. So give me a free sample and I'm was like no thank I get offered so many free items in the hopes promote them to you, to my viewers. And here critical. I do turn down almost all of because it's not something that I would feel in a video or it's just something that I don't self-deprecating remarks or negative self talk. remarks or jokes. And the thing is, I don't even a sense of humor about yourself. Not taking your shortcomings. I actually think that's a good about myself in a negative way, or thinking to serving me. Because I find that neg negativity.... attracts more positivity. So as soon as I've said little while. So while I still have kind of like laugh at my own mistakes or shortcomings, I power of my thoughts and my remarks. And I try this also goes or gossiping about others in a I stopped doing this as much as possible, my softer kind of like feel-good vibes. Because I'm you engage in gossip, whether it's at work or with cultivate a sense of toxicity and judgment. to to cultivate in my life. And I've also become too. So I used to always just kind of downplay it of downplay it. Or I would immediately follow up I just try to practice saying oh thanks, and just better. I think both people probably feel better be like oh yeah, you know. Or like oh I like your get back what we put out. So if we put out mostly we get back. And I'm really not perfect at this made me a lot better at recognizing this. Number ever heard this expression? Let me know in the explains this kind of mindset shift that happened my life. So being penny wise but pound foolish but not thinking so much about the large amounts small amount of money now, but that will cost you example of this would be driving very far to get money that you save on that bargain will then not costs will be bigger. Or cheaping out and cutting materials, that will then a few years later down that is probably more common is just going for the bit more money to get a higher quality item. For money over the years if you continue to buy cheap, wash them like three times, rather than investing be in your wardrobe for years and years. I love I do always check to see if the higher price tag always. Sometimes you're just being paying for the I've become much more willing to invest a bit more me years and years and years. And it's not just things that we spend our time or energy on. So our body and your mind by preparing healthy meals, your body and exercise, is a way of investing course do keep in mind again a higher price tag So sometimes you're just paying because it's a much better. That happens unfortunately. Or for really really good laptop and the quality will your email, then I think that is still a waste read reviews and see if it's actually what things that want me to get hooked. So I personally my life that is demanding my time and attention unfortunately, so many things nowadays have these on them, so that we use them more. And I've become this is social media. I'm not going to talk about Instagram, Facebook. I don't want any of that to belong to me and not to those platforms. YouTube. But another example could be phone games. especially the kind of games where you have to but I want to decide when I want to play them. for weeks and I don't want my crops to die those games that are really common nowadays, that get you rewards. And if you don't check in like in that weekend, you will miss out on that in that game, I will just not play it. I value my is Duolingo. This is a language learning app. And app, they are using so many tactics to get you give you experience points when you do a lesson. leaderboard has all these different leagues. And league. And if you don't get a lot of XP, then funnily enough, even with someone like me who's to the diamond League, which is like the highest me that I was in a diamond league. And I wanted to absolutely no nothing to do with actually learning crazy amounts of XP on that app. And you can see lessons, it's just for the XP. And then you have it to learn a language right? So I just completely collecting gems and all that stuff when you do language. So the only thing about Duolingo that day streak currently. Also kind of pointless. But the effect of it is a positive one. Because So that's okay for me. But all the other things, at this list, really just has to do with being behaviors have on us. And whether or not we feel well-being. Just being much more intentional and than just being reactive to whatever is happening Getting behind the driver's seat and making our our life and what we want to spend our resources simplifying life. I would love to know something changed. ever since simplifying your life. I would like tea, then I recommend trying out Ikkyu. green teas. I've been getting all my green tea wrong, they're all great. So link and discount my videos here, and you would like to get as a content creator then you can always will immediately get access to more than 100 two new ones every month. so definitely give it a try if you want to. so much for being here. Questions, comments, wonderful day and I will see you all again I can't believe I winked on camera. I don't know if I'm going to leave it in the video