- [Jared] In this video, we're gonna learn about a but not just any Black Hawk. This is a specialized We'll walk through the different the engines on top, the rotors and the flight controls and how they're used to (electrical crackling) (bang) This video is sponsored by Ground News. (rousing music) This is a specialized version It's called a Sikorsky It's owned and operated by It's been in use since the early 1980s. The Pave Hawk helicopter search and rescue. So anyone on the ground in a combat zone or in the Pave Hawk helicopter can go pick them up and bring them back to safety. The Pave Hawk usually has a crew of four. A pilot, a co-pilot and two otherwise an known as flight engineers. Then depending on the mission, they'll have several more It's very common to fly in a formation of two Pave Hawk helicopters. These helicopters have at Kennedy Space Center in Florida. For many space launches, Pave Hawk helicopters have been ready just in case something goes wrong and they need to rescue the astronauts. But besides that, missions have been flown including the United States. Central America. Africa. Europe and the Middle East. And Asia. Each helicopter costs around The Pave Hawk is just under 20 meters long and about five meters high. Some of the major parts of the helicopter are the main rotors on top, the fuselage, which is the the cockpit in the front, the cabin right behind, and then in the back, we have the tail. The stabilator, and the tail rotors at the very end. The first thing let's dive deep into is the a fueling of the helicopter. It runs off of jet fuel. Right here is the main fuel tank. And then the auxiliary fuel You can see this one from The regular Black Hawk helicopter does not have this extra That means that the Pave There are two ways to When it's on the ground, they'll use the fueling But the Pave Hawk can also There's times they can't land or they're in a hurry In this case, they'll use They fly behind another aircraft. This one is called an HC-130J and it carries extra At the end of the wing The fuel and connections come Then the Pave Hawk flies up behind, extends the fuel probe, and carefully connects Fuel can then transfer into the Pave Hawk. They can even at two helicopters Once hooked up, it usually doesn't take to fill their fuel tanks. This whole process is called On rare occasions, the Pave Hawk needs to get by using the fuel dumping tube. This doesn't happen too often, but it's there if they need it. Let's look at some more These are the missile warning sensors, so that you know right away at your helicopter. It's probably a good thing to know. Then there's the radar warning receiver, so you know if you're being Inside the nose of the helicopter, you'll find the radio compartment with communications gear inside of it. This is the color weather radar, used to detect storms so that into any bad weather. Down towards the bottom is the forward looking infrared camera, which is another way to On the bottom is the LARS antenna, which stands for &quot;lightweight This is used to help locate The cockpit is inside of here. The pilot is on the right and There's windows directly This allows for increased visibility while they are in flight. There are plenty of knobs, for the pilot and co-pilot to monitor. What we're gonna look at are The collective, the cyclic, Later in the video, we'll see how these controls can help maneuver the helicopter. Cool thing about these seats is that they can compress This will help cushion the landing and hopefully prevent any injuries. On each side of the Pave Hawk In most cases, the guns will be the same. On this Pave Hawk, we These are operated by the in the back. Let's take a closer look at the gun. It has a rotating barrel The ammo is stored in the and then moves up through the ammo belt, up then to the main gun. The ammo loops around several times while it's on its way to being fired. This gun can fire up to (gunshots firing, explosion) The cabin can be accessed by opening up the sliding Inside the cabin on the and that stands for fast rope The bars can extend out to And then a thick rope called the fast rope is tied at the very end. The PJs can then quickly This is ideal for situations when the Pave Hawk can't Sometimes we need to bring up survivors back up to the helicopter. In that case, they use the hoist. This is a hydraulically to bring up survivors from the ground. It has a cable length of 61 meters and a weight limit of 272 kilograms. These are chaff and flare buckets, and these are on both The flare buckets are and there's two more of When these fire off it but the real purpose is to and hopefully save the helicopter. The chaff buckets are pointed It shoots off tiny bits of to create chaff cloud. It looks like faint smoke. The intent here is to confuse enemy radar. This area here is called which is basically a place to store more electronic equipment. On the side of the Pave These are good foot holes to make it a lot easier to climb up on top to perform maintenance on the helicopter. The Pave Hawk has two engines. These are General Electric T-701c engines. They're referred to as turboshaft engines. It brings in air through and then compresses it, which then turns the That's why it's called Now compare that to a turbojet It brings in air through the and then instead of turning it takes that hot air and This provides the thrust, which Now that's the turbojet engine, but on a helicopter it to push it forward, that's why it uses two turboshaft engines to spin the shafts, which then work together to Now don't forget about the they're powered by the same engines. The two engines also turn a shaft that goes all the way and up to the tail rotors. In the middle is the auxiliary This is the small engine that for the helicopter. The APU is also responsible for starting up the In the center, we have These are like the wings for a helicopter. When the air is flowing fast Now you could generate more lift by spinning the blades faster. Some toy helicopters or However, this is not how The rotors on the top It doesn't change very much once the engines are For the Pave Hawk, they spin at 258 RPM or The way we generate lift is by changing the pitch of these blades. This affects the angle of attack. When you increase it, Do it on all four of the rotor blades and this will cause the Decrease the pitch to generate less lift, which will cause the helicopter to descend or accelerate downwards. The turbo shot engines are spinning these four massive This causes the main to want to spin the other way. If we did nothing to stop this the helicopter would spin out of control. This is the reason we have It provides a counter torque, or in other words, a spinning This stabilizes the helicopter so it's not spinning uncontrollably. If you come back here and they are not perfectly aligned. They are tilted by 20 degrees. This makes it so that it of lift in the very This helps counteract the Another thing about the tail rotors is that each of the four blades This changes how much airflow there is. Increase the pitch if you And then decrease the pitch if you want to turn to the right. How about moving the helicopter? So if we wanna go forward or how does that work? First, let me show you the This is called the swashplate assembly. Here's the main swashplate, the rotor mast, and the four pitch control rods, which are then connected to The swashplate can move up or down. This directly affects the pitch but the swashplate can also This means it will change than on others. And if you watch it spinning around, each blade is always changing. Let's focus in on just this blade. When it's on the right But when it's on the left It's flat. Now it's angled. It's flat. Now it's angled. This means unequal lift on different sides of the helicopter. This is used to maneuver the helicopter in different directions. So in short, the swashplate mechanism is one of the main ways that One of the hardest is something called gyroscopic precession. And this happens to anything that spins, but it's especially So if you wanna pitch you might think we need to apply more lift in the back of the rotor blades. But if we did this, it would actually roll the We apply force and it doesn't take effect until 90 degrees later. To actually pitch the helicopter forward, more lift needs to And again, if you've never heard of this probably seems a little strange. The good news is that helicopter pilots don't have to be actively but it's definitely good to understand. Now that we know how the rotors work, let's take a look at the flight controls that you'll find in the cockpit. There are three main ones, and we saw these earlier in the video. The collective, the cyclic, Let's go through what First, the collective. This moves the helicopter up or down. Pull on the collective, and This increases the lift on the helicopter causing it to rise into the air. Push down on the collective, the swashplate goes down and to move the helicopter down. The center control is called the cyclic. This is used to move the or left or right. Move the control, this will tilt the swashplate of lift on one side, which This automatically adjusts All the pilot has to do is move the cyclic in the direction that the helicopter should go. Down here are the tail rotor pedals, which of course uses the tail to the left or to the right. This is also known as controlling the yaw, or vertical axis of rotation. If we push the left pedal the tail rotor blades pitch increases, which then rotates the Push on the right pedal, which rotates the helicopter to the right. So in summary, you have the collective, which moves the helicopter up or down. The cyclic, which moves backward, or side to side. And then the tail rotor pedals, which rotates the At this point, I just wanna mention that the swashplate assembly, and of course, gyroscopic precession, this is all not unique This is how most The Pave Hawk helicopter to another destination. Before this happens, there's some preparations The four main rotor blades towards the tail, and The tail rotors are folded Now the Pave Hawk takes up much less space and can be put inside of another aircraft. This is a C-17. And it can fit two Pave Hawk Now it's not used as much, but the Pave Hawk also has the ability to fold back the tail as well, which would reduce the size even more for some extreme cases. The HH-60G Pave Hawk has been At some point in the near future, it will be replaced by This will provide many fuel system, engines, the armor plating, and of course, the weapons systems. There is so much to When you read the news you may be getting just Ground News has an answer to this problem. This is an informative website and app that lets you compare current events and how they're being covered. Pick a story and then take a look at the Bias Distribution chart, which shows you the news and where they fall on Then you can click on and see for yourself. With Ground News, you can ensure that you are and not just one piece of it. This will allow you to and understand the world much better. Another helpful feature they which lets you see stories by either side of the political spectrum. You can personalize Ground News to show you the topics like finance, science or sports. Try it for free by going or download the free in the description below. My name's Jared. I make 3D To be notified about future videos, you can click the subscribe button here or click on these cards to see more videos just like this one. Thanks for watching and (rousing music)