Joe: Here we are at Gray's Papaya. This place is legendary for Harry: Yes. Joe: Any New Yorker will a good idea of how great hot got to take them to Gray's. Harry: All right. I'm here Joe: Yeah, let's hit it. Joe: Yeah, I want to Let's do the hot dogs with and two of the pineapple drinks. Oh, papaya. Sorry. Can we get these to go? Joe: Thank you very much. All right, a bag of dogs and Harry: Let's go. Joe: Let's go eat this in the park. There's no room in here. Come on. Check it out. Wow, there it is. Harry: Beautiful. Who let All right, so this is Gray's Papaya, and we got two New York dogs and their papaya-flavored drink. I guess the standard New and sauerkraut and mustard. Harry: Sure. Joe: I know you like kraut, right? Harry: Yeah. I like kind of so in terms of toppings, this Joe: Fantastic. So let's then we'll take a sip of the papaya drink, and we'll see how you I'm intrigued to see how this because this is not something Joe: Yeah. I'm starving, so let's do this. Harry: All right, man. Hm. The snap of the dog. It's 100% beef dog. Flavorful. Goes really well -- I guess the acidity of the the full flavor of the dog. Coming from someone who or love hot dogs, me, this is actually really, really good. I feel like they've mastered There's just enough onions to really kind of balance this all out. It really works together. The papaya drink, it's fantastic. And with the saltiness and paired with this, fantastic. Harry: I can't say I've eaten Get in there, buddy. It can't be 100% papaya juice, right? Like, 100%? No. Joe: They can't do that. Right? Ooh. Joe: How expensive would that papaya juice? You definitely wouldn't for $4 or something. Joe: Yeah. Yeah. This is really good! Joe: It's very good. Right? Harry: This is like -- the I would say. Do you get that? Joe: Oh, yeah. Yeah. I think that does actually work really well as a combination, which is not what I was expecting. I don't know if this reference but hopefully the UK Let's go. For some reason, this tastes exactly like a vanilla Mini Milk ice lolly. I do know what that is. Harry: Yeah? You have one of those before? I had one years ago when I was there. But it's not something They're not even, like, super common, because it's kind of for kids. But it's a very nostalgic flavor. And honestly, I get exactly this. Joe: Yeah. We have something similar here, usually referred to as a dreamsicle. It is a vanilla popsicle. I think you said iced lolly. Yeah. It's orange and cream. It's an orange-and-cream popsicle. It isn't exactly this, because This does have, though, that tropical-fruit-and-cream combo that is really good. I will say, again, for a self-confessed not really hot-dog enjoyer, I have just kind of passively found myself eating this Yeah, because you've been Who knows what they're putting in there? That's all-American-beef dog, buddy. In the UK, it's way more common And maybe that has something to do with why I'm enjoying this one slightly more. It's definitely got more of a savory taste to it than I'm used to, which I'm really enjoying. Joe: All right. On to Harry: Let's go. Joe: Harry and I already had so I brought us to some a dark and noisy bar named This bar's been here It might not seem that coming from London, but here in America, that's really old. Harry: Yeah. For you guys, that seems like it's been around a while. I forget when that was. Yeah, yeah, yeah. This is Harry: OK. No, it does kind of remind me This place is amazing. It's ridiculous. They have two types of You have the light. I have the dark. Houdini was here once. E.E. Cummings mentioned it in a poem. So I'm not even the most famous Harry Styles dropped in after He'd sold out Madison Square Garden, he went right to McSorley's. But everyone was like, Anyway, but one thing about this place that most people don't know about is they have a fantastic hot dog. Harry: Ooh. OK. I'm here for it. Joe: Dude, you know what they have here that's totally ridiculous? onions, cheese, and saltine crackers. Harry: Like, cooked onions? No, they're raw. OK. We're not getting it, but I that's totally not normal. Well, now I feel like we should get it, now that you've mentioned it. Can we do two hot dogs and a plate of the cheese I think just the sauerkraut. Just the sauer -- one sauerkraut for each. Yeah. Thanks, bud. Yeah, sure, why not? Good for props. Yeah, thanks. Harry: Thank you. Did he do two hands or one? I think he had all of those in one hand. No. Harry: How many of those Because I cannot do eight. It's impossible. Harry: He definitely It's impossible. No, Harry: Let me see how I reckon three or maybe four. I feel like four ... do I have tiny hands? Oh, wait, here we go. Harry: There we go. Thank you. There we go. I love that it's a sleeve of saltines. Harry: Just a full sleeve of saltines. A full sleeve of saltines. I don't know that I've ever had You haven't? I don't think so. They're Oh, no. This is, like, Yeah. I know there's -- oh, is I was kind of rude about it, but the onion's kind of winning me over. That's, immediately you I'll just dip that. Yeah. Oh, my God. That is some strong mustard. Definitely try that mustard. Oh, man. I love a bit of strong mustard. Yeah? That tastes like -- that's That is hot. Now, is that Grey Poupon level? Is what? Grey Poupon. You don't Harry: I've got no idea You don't know what Grey Poop-on? What are you saying? Yeah, Grey, Poupon. First word Grey. Yes. Second word Poupon. Poop. Well, not poop. Pou-pon. There was this ad campaign in the '80s where they made it seem called Grey Poupon was, and you see one guy like, a nice town car. He's, like, eating a meal And the second car pulls Rolls down the window. Do you have any Grey Poupon?&quot; And that other guy's And then when he hands him the jar and the guy goes to get it, they pause on, like, &quot;Grey I don't know what the ... they make a joke of it in &quot;Wayne's World&quot;! If we're talking mustard in I guess Colman's probably has the ... Colman's. ... the market cornered on that one. But yeah, this is good. This is some powerful stuff. I'm weirdly, yeah, I'm [laughs] Joe wipes the Joe: OK, well the dog's going to flip your Grey Poupon when you try Hey, thank you. Ooh, that's what I'm talking about. Now, this looks real good. Harry: Thank you very much. OK. Did I tell you they're not playing with this hot dog, dude? This is for real. Harry: This looks like You gotta have a little bit of the mustard ahead of time with the cheese. Got a little taste already. It's powerful stuff. I feel Yeah, yeah, yeah. This this'll clear your sinuses. Harry: I'm excited! Joe: Yeah. This dog is ridiculous. This looks really good, man. Ready? Joe: Let's get in here. Joe: Mm-hmm. Harry: Mm. Mm-hmm. Let me tell you. How good is this dog? Whew! Whoa, that mustard just hit. It's a Feltman's hot dog. Harry: Right. OK. Joe: It's different than the Harry: Who are Feltman's? Probably one of the oldest Certainly in New York. Harry: Right. Others have moved in, but they're sticking with the originals. OK. But they don't have too It's not as common as you'd think. Harry: Sure. There is a definite You really taste the difference, right? And the casing is really There's a good snap to it! Look, it even has, like, I don't know what that means, but it feels like because That looks like, you know the sausage you see in, like, &quot;Tom and Jerry,&quot; when it's got, it looks like It's like that. Like the sausage links. Harry: Uh-huh. Hasn't been cut into -- oh, try a bite on the other The meat, it's impeccable. Harry: It's really good, man. I will say, when it arrived, it looked like a lot of sauerkraut, but it's not the most aggressive Right? It's fairly gentle. Not overly tangy and in your face. Joe: Dude. Did you get the mustard? Yeah. I got, like, a mustard pocket. I was about to agree with you. That thing just, like, that Harry: [laughs] It really does. Mustard heat is weird because like, attacks to the back of your nose. But I love it. Harry: It's really good. I told you, man, this dog is incredible. Harry: This is a serious hot dog. Yeah, this might be the one to beat. Harry: Mm. Man. I'm, like, eating with caution, though. I keep getting, like -- what? You getting the Mm-hmm. Man. You take a bite, you chew, and then you hit a pocket of mustard. So you get real cocky. Yeah. You get real cocky with You're like, now that time to inhale. Ah! Harry: Clear. You have deleted that dog. Wow. I think the dog with nothing on it, if I just got that with I still would be very, very pleased. The way that, yeah. Yeah, let me try just a little bit of the sausage on its own. Joe: Yeah. Freestyle just the dog. That might be the best That might be the best one. That's like. Right? It's so flavorful. Joe: Right? It's like what I imagine biting someone's finger off would be like. Pop! Right? That's not how I wanted to imagine it. Joe: Oh, OK. Considering how spicy it is it's, like, so moreish. You want to keep going back every time. It's almost like eating hot where, like, the pain of it and then the endorphin Why do humans do that? It's like, things that we just can't get enough of it. And now I'm kind of picking Harry: Well, I mean, we've of saltines to get through, so, you know. Joe: We'll get those to go. Perfect for dessert. Well, as much as I'd love to stay in a bar all day and night, we unfortunately have to So let's finish these that they gave us. Yeah, cool. And then on to more hot dogs. I'll drink to that one. Cheers, buddy. One quintessential New is getting one at one of the that's right by Central Park. So here we are on 93rd Street, I think. Going to get two dogs from my guy, go over to the park, Harry: Sounds good. Behold. The dog. Mustard, sauerkraut, and onions. I don't know what he put That guy was moving lightning fast. Harry: He really was. Joe: $2 for a dog. Did you notice that? Harry: I did. That's cheap. Joe: That's really cheap. Harry: Is that, like, the Because we're right next to Central Park. We're in a good location. Joe: Yeah, I know it he's in it for the love of the game. His cart was wrapped in plastic, like it had just been murdered. Yeah. Right? Doesn't that It did a little bit, yeah. Joe: OK, great. But he's working hard, so But I'm actually really hungry, so. Harry: Yeah, let's give it a Not as much of a distinct flavor as the dog we've had before today. But still an incredibly good hot dog. Harry: Yeah. I'm pleasantly surprised. I think often in the UK, rather than grilled. I know sometimes places will Oh, yeah. Good point. I think generally speaking, I prefer the texture of a grilled one because you get more Joe: Yeah, yeah, yeah. But you still get a and honestly, it hasn't I don't think. It still Joe: Yeah, this is like a Harry: Yeah, so, I mean, Where do you stand on ketchup on hot dogs? Because some people Who gives a s---? Put whatever you want in We did it with the pizza Blabitty blah, pineapple. Harry: It's true. Put whatever you want in People have rules. Some people Absolutely nonsense. You're more of a maverick. That's fine. Don't you think it's a weirder topping, sauerkraut and onion? Right? Everyone's like, &quot;Ketchup?!&quot; Ketchup's the third weird Apparently the National Hot A, there is one, and, B, because they release statements, saying something to the on your hot dog until and then after that, like, be I love the existence of a National Hot Dog and Sausage Council. The word Not, like, organization; council. Like, &quot;The council has spoken.&quot; Joe: Yeah. These carts like But this one specifically I'm assuming that was Billy has hundreds of five-star reviews. It's almost the most popular in the entire city, so. If I gotta take you to the best one, right? Yeah. I mean, I wonder The location's great. We're That's pretty cool. And he Joe: Yeah, he's perfectly nice guy. Yeah. I just think it's insane to Just eat and get out. &quot;two stars.&quot; Like, what? Unless I got, like, the and I logged on to give a bad rating, I don't know how you're going to have a -- So, you get the worst food poisoning ever and you give it a bad review? You don't call the health inspector? Call that guy. I feel like that feels too much ... Show that. That's the British in you. Like, &quot;Well, I don't want to be impolite, so let's give him two stars.&quot; That's too much like snitching. Joe: &quot;Went to the hospital. Two stars.&quot; Harry: &quot;Dog was pretty Yeah. Hey, finish up. We got All right, buddy, let's go. Joe: From there, we made our for our next dog. We're here at Madison Square Park, the original Shake Shack location. Now, it used to actually be a shack, probably right there, that sold hot dogs, then eventually burgers But this is where it happened, This hot dog is one of in the city. But that might be because the and they also sell hot dogs here. OK. So they've kind of hacked Joe: Yeah, yeah, yeah. But this is the dog that Joe: That's right. So, of course, we have to show off this insane debacle of a hot dog. I believe it's called, Harry: Right. Joe: Because the reason they put it down. Some call The idea is if you're making a hot dog and an earthquake strikes, it Got it. Joe: It's just, I mean, I think the original Shake Shack guy, his first job was making I don't know. On a fault line. Joe: Yeah, yeah, that's right. Yeah. Harry: It looks pretty well cooked. There's a nice bit of color on there. Joe: Bite into this Cheers. Let's go. Mm. Yeah, the char taste really I almost, in a weird way, I almost wouldn't want I do slightly disagree with you. I do think it needs some Oh, I meant toppings. Like, just spray a little Harry: Yeah, that works. No, I think a little bit of sauce or some caramelized onion or something just to kind of, you know, aid it on the way down. But the dog itself is really tasty. It's got a chewier texture I would make some changes I think if this came and maybe a little mustard, Joe: Did somebody say toppings? I did say toppings. All right. Funny you I did have a bit of an ulterior This Shake Shack actually And me, being from Chicago, I think the Chicago-style dog at least in America. Keep your voice down, man. And I wasn't sure if any other places we were going today is going to have one. Just wanted to make sure while you're here. Here that's right, I said it, the best hot-dog combination in America, the Chicago-style dog. OK. I did notice they split the hot dog and did it how they normally do. That's not a Chicago way of doing it. Harry: Sure. Joe: But you got tomato wedges, sport peppers, celery and a wedge of a pickle. So you mentioned before responding favorably to the sauerkraut, having that vinegariness to it. Right? Yes. Love a bit of tang. Yeah. This is all tang. Even I do like the wedge on the dog. You'll make an exception for -- Joe: I'll make an exception Does this look reasonably Joe: Yeah, so far it a poppy-seed bun. But we It's a regular boiled hot dog. I've never had one of these before. I'm excited. Let's go. Joe: Oh, yeah. You're destroying that thing. Wow. You're going -- the way I guess you like it. I've had a few before. This right here is the secret ingredient. The little green peppers. Harry: No. They have a little bit of a kick to them, but they're so good. And they're tiny, so they got, like, a snap to them. Harry: Mm. Fantastic. Fantastic dog. This is really good. Joe: Yeah, right? Told you. Why do we not put This is delicious. I don't know why not. See, this is more up my plenty of moisture in here. There's texture contrast going on. You get crunch, you I don't know if we can for a New York hot-dog video. You and I might not be If we say that the best dog in New York is a Chicago-style dog. Bring it. Harry: But, you know, that's on them. If they can't offer something we'll see. Can you please explain Because I've seen this Joe: I think that's what Harry: Really? Hot dogs suddenly became, I'm normalizing eating hot dogs. Enough with these kids on All right. I'm going to finish this beer. We got more glizzies to eat. I'm ready to gulp some more Someone please isolate that audio and make it a viral TikTok audio. I will take the shame No New York hot-dog tour would be complete without a trip to Nathan's I know we've been eating hot dogs all day. Harry: That we have. This was a bit of a haul. But I had to take you to the one and only, here in Coney Island. Also home of the Your boy Kobayashi. Even I've seen that. It's horrifying and Nathan's has been here since 1916. It started as a hot-dog stand. And remember we were talking earlier about Feltman's hot dogs? Harry: Yes. Joe: When Nathan's by selling $0.05 hot dogs So that rivalry runs deep. They have locations all over the world. You can get Nathan's hot all over the country and It is the quintessential hot dog, arguably the most famous one, and I think you should see why. Also, if you're listening, you can hear we're only steps carnival grounds, rides, the whole thing. So all that screaming is not people eating hot dogs. Sure, that's reassuring to know. I do love how I'm here and somewhere on the British coastline. Joe: Really? Why's that? I feel like just coasts in general, or at least in the UK and the US, from what I've experienced, have that similar kind of It's not glamorous over It's nostalgic, and I like it. So yeah. I feel right at home, and I'm Joe: All right. Once again, We got the onions on here. Harry: This is a pretty I like the color on the onions. Joe: Yeah, yeah, yeah, But that's to be expected. they're a little bit thinner. I think a hot-dog-eating if they had to eat ones with the toppings. That'd be really funny. Right? That would be. That's the But before we go any further, I think we gotta eat this Harry: Cheers. Ooh. Harry: Mm-hmm. Joe: So good. So, so good. As far as first bites Even though it's thinner it does have a really good snap to it. Harry: Mm-hmm. Incredibly flavorful. 100% beef. They just have a distinct flavor. The frank has a distinct pick out of a hot-dog lineup. Right? I'd say although this is a beef frank, tastes fairly similar to some of the more pork-based frankfurters that we're used to maybe in the UK. Joe: Oh, is that right? Harry: Yeah. Something the texture as well. I guess, the texture. I feel like some of the ones we've had, maybe you can taste more whereas this is kind of just Joe: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I like how this place is You know, it's like, we're Harry: Place is huge. Joe: They're just running Yeah, they're churning them out. Harry: Friendly vibe in there. I like it. Joe: Really nice. Yeah, yeah, yeah. This dog is as iconic If you are here, you're eating a hot dog. Yeah. Can you kind of separate or are they kind of just one and the same? Joe: One and the same. Yeah. You're enjoying it so much that you wanted your pants I know. God, yeah. I'm a wreck. I've had 20 hot dogs today. And about five beers. Yeah. I think it's the hot dogs. Harry: The kraut's really good here. Joe: Mm-hmm. Harry: Crunchy. Tangy. Honestly, I added mustard, because you actually get from the sauerkraut, and a little bit from the onions. If you had to enter the how many dogs do you What was the record again? I don't know if it's a record, Nice. And that's in 10 minutes, I think. That's a lot. In 10 minutes, I could ... mm. I can't eat 69 hot dogs in If I was really hungry, I Oh, get out of here. 10 hot dogs. Get out of here, 10 hot dogs. How many do you think in 10 minutes? I bet you'd put away All right? You've got so little faith, man. We eat fast food professionally. You think our stomachs Oh, God. Maybe it would be, but I I feel like my stomach's The screams. Like, it's pretty jarring. Like, ah! They're OK. Harry: They're fine. They're fine. Joe: We spent the whole We went all around the city to decide what was the Let's run down a few. Every hot dog I think was Harry: Yep. Joe: Gray's Papaya I think The snap, the texture. But, you know, the one that it was just, like, the It just was, yeah. You know? Having a hot dog in the park, The futility of your existence, Shake Shack. I mean, maybe I'm biased. We got that Shack-cago dog. Chicago dog I think was very good. But their actual regular dog, as much as I like to hate on the butterfly, cut-in-half thing, it did have a nice flavor to it. Harry: Yeah. McSorley's, I mean, that whole That specific frank they had on there. I love the sauerkraut too. And then here, look at You don't give a building this big unless you're selling some Harry: You really don't. No. Joe: Moving a lot of dogs. So it's a real hard choice. What are some things The main takeaway for me is that New York has slightly changed Oh, that's fantastic! I wasn't much of a hot-dog guy. But honestly, we've had Pretty much every location, to the point where I think in the future I would now voluntarily eat a hot dog. I would go out of my way Whereas in the past, maybe, So I think broadly speaking, You guys do a good hot dog. But I think my personal Joe: Really? Why's that? Harry: I really liked the vibe in there. It might be because I kind of felt a nostalgic British pub vibe from it. But it's very classic people were friendly, it That hot dog was just delicious. We both destroyed that thing. Do you agree? Joe: I agree we both destroyed it. And I'm going to agree with you. I think McSorley's was the Now, I thought it was After we had it, I'm like, &quot;Come on. We're not getting a But what jumped out it didn't have as much sauerkraut on it, or the kraut wasn't as So the dog did more of the talking. Harry: Definitely. Joe: The Feltman's dog, which, I don't think anyone else had Certainly not Nathan's. I think that most of them were And with that mustard? what else could you put on I don't think it needed anything else. There weren't onions on there. I don't think it needed onions. So with just their kraut and the mustard made for a fantastic hot dog. Yeah. I think simple but Joe: Yeah. And like I say, the vibe Would happily go back. Even just go back for a drink in the evening. Joe: Yeah, it's cool. Just friendly in there and, yeah, would happily endorse that to any tourist who is heading to New York. All right. Do you want now that we have a stomach That's a recipe for throwing See you in a couple of weeks You said eight? Harry: I said 10. Nah, not happening. Harry: Bring it on, man. Not happening.