- Democracy might be (serious music) This isn't a value judgment, nor a statement about how rare and unstable democratic in the history of civilization. Our current attempt at democracy, the methods we're using are fundamentally irrational. And this is a well-established This is a video about the math that proved that fact It's a video about how groups and the pitfalls that our (subdued music) One of the simplest is to ask the voters to mark one candidate as their favorite on a ballot. And when the votes are counted, the candidate with the most This is known as &quot;first The name is kind of a misnomer though. There is no post that any of the candidates The winner is just the This method likely goes back to antiquity. It has been used to elect members of the House of Commons in and it's still a common voting system with 44 countries in the world using it to elect its leaders. 30 of these countries were The US, being a former British colony, still uses first past the to elect their representatives But first past the post has problems. If you are selecting you can, and frequently do, get situations where the did not vote for the party In the last a hundred years, there were 21 times a single party held a majority of the seats but only two of those times actually vote for that party. So a party, which only a ends up holding all of Another thing that happens is that similar parties from each other. - The 2000 US presidential election, which was an election essentially between Al Gore and George W. Bush. At that point, every state in the nation used first past the post to determine the outcome of the election. Bush had more votes in Florida, but by a ridiculously slim margin. It was fewer than 600 votes. But there was another candidate Nader was a Green candidate. He was certainly to the - And what we need is the upsurge of citizen concern, people concern, poor, rich, or middle class, to counteract the power - And he got almost a hundred - I just don't know if I vote for Bush or Gore. - I will vote for Ralph Nader. - Most of those voters were devastated that by voting for Nader rather than Gore, they ended up electing Bush. This is what is called a spoiler effect. Almost all Nader voters but in a first past the post system, they had no way of because you could only (inquisitive music) - So first past the to vote strategically. Say there are five parties, one of them will be the smallest Why would you vote for them? This is also true if you have This winner-takes-all voting system leads to a concentration of eventually, leading to a two-party system. This effect is common enough that it has a name: Duverger's Law. So first past the post So what else could we do? (subdued music) Well, we can say that a candidate if they get a majority, at But what if we hold an election We could go to the people with the fewest votes and but choose a different candidate and we could repeat this eliminating the smallest candidate until one candidate reaches a majority. But holding many elections is a big hassle so instead we could just ask voters to rank their preferences from their favorite to And if their favorite we go to their second preferences. When the polls close, you count If any candidate has a then they're the winner. But if no candidate has a majority, the candidate with the and their ballots are distributed to those voters' second preferences, and this keeps happening until one candidate has This is mathematically identical to holding repeated elections, it just saves the time and hassle so it's referred to as instant runoff, but the system is also known as preferential voting An instant runoff doesn't it affects how the candidates - It was the Minneapolis they were using ranked-choice voting. The incumbent mayor had stepped down and there were all of these people came out from the woodwork There're 35 candidates. And so you would think you'd want to dunk on someone, you'd wanna like kind of elbow That's not what happened. These 35 candidates, all of them were really They were all super cordial, super polite, to the degree that at the end they all came together and Kumbaya, my Lord, kumbaya Oh, Lord, kumbaya - The amount of vitriol and anger and partisan, you know, to see this vision of an actual &quot;Kumbaya.&quot; It's not even a joke. All of these people getting along so desperate for second and third choices from other people that they're like, &quot;I'm gonna be the picture-perfect, kindest candidate possible.&quot; - But there's also a There can be cases where can actually help get them elected. Let's say we have three candidates: Einstein, Curie, and Bohr. Now, Einstein and Bohr while Curie is So let's say Einstein Curie gets 30, and Bohr gets 45. No one got a majority. So it goes to the second round with Einstein being eliminated and because people who voted for Einstein put down Curie as their second choice, well, Curie ultimately gets elected. But now imagine that Bohr has or proposes a very unpopular policy so bad that some of his voters actually switch over to Einstein's side. Well now it's Curie that gets eliminated and because she's more moderate, half of her voters select Einstein and the other half select and this leads to Bohr winning. So Bohr doing worse in the first round actually leads to him Clearly, this isn't something that we want in a voting system. (serious music) the French mathematician Condorcet was one of the and mathematics to rigorously making him one of the founders of a branch of mathematics He was working during the so fairly determining was having a cultural moment right then. In 1784, Condorcet's contemporary at the French Royal Society of Science, Jean-Charles de Borda, You ask the voters to rank the candidates. If there are five candidates, ranking someone first gives ranking them second would with zero points being But the Borda count has a problem because the number of points is dependent on the total Adding extra people that can affect the winner. Because of this, Condorcet He wrote that it was because it relies on irrelevant So in 1785, Condorcet published an essay in which he proposed a new voting system, one he thought was the most fair. (soft music) Basically the winner needs to beat every other candidate But with more than two candidates, do you need to hold a large number of head-to-head elections Well, no. Just ask the voters to just like in instant runoff and then count how many voters than each other candidate. This feels like the This voting system was actually discovered 450 years earlier by Ramon Llull, a monk who was looking at how but Llull's ideas didn't make an impact because his book, &quot;Ars was lost and only rediscovered in 2001. So the voting system is named (gentle music) But will there always Let's try Condorcet's between you and two friends. There are three options: You really like burgers, so your second choice is pizza, Your friend prefers pizza, and your other friend prefers sushi, then burgers, then pizza. Now if you choose that sushi should have won instead since two of you prefer sushi over burgers and only one prefers burgers to sushi. However, by the same argument, and burgers are preferred to pizza by a margin of two-to-one So it seems like you and your Burgers are preferred to pizza, which is preferred to burgers and so on. This situation is known Condorcet died before he could resolve this problem with his voting system. He was politically active writing a draft of France's constitution. In 1793 during the Reign of Terror when La Montagne came to power, he was deemed a traitor specifically their new constitution. In the next year, he was (gentle music) Over the next 150 years, were proposing their own voting systems or modifications to One of those mathematicians better known as Lewis Carroll. When he wasn't writing he was trying to find a But every voting system had You'd either get Condorcet loops or other candidates that would affect the outcome of the election. (lively jazz music) In 1951, Kenneth Arrow and in it he outlined five very obvious and reasonable conditions that a rational voting system should have. Condition number one: if everyone in the group the outcome should reflect that. If every individual in the group prefers to eat sushi over pizza, then the group as a whole This is known as unanimity. Condition two: no single person's vote should override the If everyone votes for pizza except one person who votes for sushi, the group should obviously choose pizza. If a single vote is decisive, that's a dictatorship. Condition three: everyone should be able to vote however they want and the voting system must based on all the ballots, every time. It can't avoid problematic ballots or candidates by simply ignoring them or just guessing randomly, for the same set of ballots every time. This is called unrestricted domain. Condition four: the voting If a group prefers burgers over pizza and pizza over sushi, then they should also This is known as transitivity. Condition five: if the is sushi over pizza, the introduction of another should not change that preference. Sure, the group might collectively or in the middle or at the bottom, but the ranking of sushi over pizza should not be affected by the new option. This is called the independence But here's the thing, Arrow of these conditions in with three or more This is Arrow's Impossibility Theorem, and it was so groundbreaking that Arrow was awarded the Nobel So I wanna go through based on a formulation by Geanakoplos. So let's say there are three candidates running for election: Aristotle, Bohr, and Curie, but we'll refer to them as A, B, and C, and we have a collection of voters that we'll line up in order. So we have voter 1, 2, 3, and Each of these voters is free to rank A, B I'll even allow ties. And the first we wanna show a particular candidate first or last, then society as a whole must also rank that Let's arbitrarily pick candidate B. If say half of the voters rank B first and half rank B last, then the claim is our voting system must and we'll prove it by contradiction. So say this is how everyone voted. If our system does not but rather in the middle, which is above C, then Because if each of our then by unanimity, C However, because we of any A relative to B, A must still be ranked above B and because we didn't change the position of any C relative to B, C and by transitivity, if A is preferred to B then A must be ranked above C. But this contradicts and that proves that if everyone ranks a candidate first or last, then society must also Now let's do a thought experiment where every voter puts B at we'll leave the ranking Well then, by unanimity, we know that B must be at the and we'll call this setup Profile 0. Now we'll create Profile 1 except the first voter moves This, of course, doesn't but we can keep doing this creating Profiles 2, 3, 4, and so on with one more voter flipping B from the bottom to the top each time. If we keep doing this, there whose change from having B will first flip society's Let's call this voter the pivotal voter and we'll label the Profile p. Profile o is then the profile right before the pivotal change happens. Let's now create a Profile except the pivotal voter moves A above B. By independence of the social rank must also put A above B. Since for all of our voters, the relative position of A and B is the same as it was in Profile o, and B must be ranked above C because the relative positions as they were in Profile p, where our pivotal voter By transitivity A must be ranked above C in the social ranking. This is true regardless of how any of the their positions of A and C, because these rearrangements don't change the position of A relative This means the pivotal for determining society's The social rank will always regardless of what the other voters do. We can run a similar thought experiment where we put C at the bottom and prove that there is again, a dictator, who in this case determines the social preference of A over B. And it turns out this who determines the social The pivotal voter is (dark music) So is democracy doomed? Well, Arrow's impossibility If there are three or more there is no ranked-choice method to rationally aggregate voter preferences. You always need to give something up. (hopeful music) But the mathematician, Duncan Black, found a much more optimistic theorem which might actually If voters and candidates along a single dimension, say ranging from liberal on the left to conservative on the right, but this could apply to any Well, then Black showed of the median voter will The median voter's choice will often determine the a result that aligns with avoiding the paradoxes and inconsistencies highlighted by Arrow. And there's more good news. Arrow's Impossibility Theorem only applies to ordinal voting systems, ones in which the voters There is another way: The simplest version is where instead of ranking the candidates, the voters just tick the There are also versions how strongly you like each candidate, say from -10, strongly disapprove of, to +10, strongly approve. Research has found that approval voting decreases negative campaigning and prevents the spoiler effect. Voters could express their without worrying about the size of the party they're voting for. It's also simple to tally, just count up what approve of each candidate and the one with the Kenneth Arrow was initially skeptical of rated-voting systems, but toward the end of his life, he agreed that they were Approval voting is not new. It was used by priests in the Vatican to elect the Pope between 1294 and 1621. It's also used to elect the Secretary General but it hasn't been widely And so more real-world (mellow music) So is democracy mathematically impossible? Well, yes, if we use ranked which is what most to elect their leaders. And some methods are clearly better at aggregating the people's the use of first past the post voting feels quite frankly ridiculous to me, given all of its flaws. But just because things aren't perfect doesn't mean we shouldn't try. Being interested in the world around us, caring about issues, and being politically It might be one of the few ways we can make a real Like Winston Churchill said, &quot;Democracy is the worst form of government except for all the other Democracy is not perfect, but The game might be crooked, but (static buzzes and whines) The world is changing. How it works today is no guarantee of how it'll work tomorrow from how we elect presidents Luckily, there's an easy way to be ready for whatever the future holds and critical thinking skills And you can get started with today's sponsor: Brilliant. Brilliant will make you a better while helping you build real skills in everything from math and data analysis to programming and AI, whatever it is that you're curious about. On Brilliant you'll by trying things out for yourself, and you'll not only gain you'll learn to apply them Learning a little every day is one of the most and Brilliant is the perfect way to do it with thousands of bite-sized Now, thinking about led me to revisit some of their courses on probability and statistics. They're a great on-ramp to learning how we use data to make predictions. Plus, they get you hands-on with real data and even let you run simulations for things like who And the best part about Brilliant is you can learn from anywhere So whenever you have a few minutes, you can be building a To try everything Brilliant has to offer for free for 30 days, visit brilliant.org/veritasium or scan this QR code or click that link down You will also get 20% off an So I want to thank Brilliant and I want to thank you for watching.