Today i'm going to walk you through what the a general overview from start to finish, and if frenchie content and if you could please subscribe Now ,it will be a very basic overview for some of the process, but keep in mind that there are and may not be covered. First thing, DNA Test your want to do is have a DNA sample sent off to a that would make her a poorly suited choice for do that she should also be evaluated by a find a quality french bulldog stud the next health standards to ensure that you're These studs are most often advertised as four that can manifest in certain situations such as breeding murals together. We could probably and but you'll want to find and decide on the stud and If you're breeding purebred registered dogs make The process is a bit more straightforward if you shipped or frozen semen shipped if you prefer, Evaluate your dam's heat cycle. If you monitor can get an idea on how far apart they'll be. Make a half old, you can plan for a breeding any time or more between heat cycles, and they can develop and stop, but we'll look at that a little closer of heat, which will present itself as visible you'll be expected to progesterone test your dam be inseminated. Often, breeders will begin testing Your vet will look for what's known as the her to conceive. The average time is around Since french bulldogs do not tie often naturally process is going to be done artificially. if be the only exception where you could try and still choose to ai sometimes this is a one-time ais to be safe a vet specializing in reproduction their own collections and do their own AI's on the procedure and it's not something i would Insemination - Depending on the location of semen to be shipped to your vet or it may all be in the presence of a dam, it can help enhance insemination process. However, many times semen is You will need to keep the stud owner informed can plan to have the semen timed properly. communicate that to the stud owner in advance. semen to increase the lifespan and viability of it the same reason. Once it arrives your vet will its viability. When using extender sperm will the vet will perform the ai with an insemination trans cervical insemination is necessary the dam with an endoscope will help place the sperm owner at the veterinarian's office you do not want to take them in. Over-exciting the stud with a and make pregnancy unlikely, so if you're going keep your dam far away. Changing Diet - Once to something richer in nutrients. Many breeders advised of some better alternatives that we'll you'll want to consider is a folic acid supplement puppies with a cleft palate. Puppies born with require significant human intervention and and supplement recommendations from other breeders Pregnancy and Labor - following the insemination days after the last insemination to confirm litter. It will take 63 days from the time This will most often result in a c-section however There will be signs to look for during the monitored extremely close to avoid any potentially It cannot be understated enough that this breed human intervention, do not take this lightly Some breeders choose to schedule a c-section until the damn show signs of labor these signs excessive panting, nesting they may and a loss of appetite. A scheduled c-section while waiting too long to recognize the the correct timing is critical. You can also use a c-section, an extra cost but it could definitely Puppy Time - if everything runs smoothly you will and mom in a matter of hours. You will need and have plans for a whelping box for the pups. to keep the pups in close proximity for warmth. things in our video description. You can also puppies need to be monitored very closely in the and wander away from that heat source which stimulate puppies with a cotton ball and water by licking them but it's a good idea in the event busy in the weeks ahead monitoring the puppies and pups stay with mom for a minimum of eight weeks need to be vaccinated before departing and you and exposing too many people in the early weeks Continue Learning - keep in mind this is a general there are many challenges even the most If you're considering breeding french bulldogs and join support groups to help answer your our youtube channel for more additional french