Closed Captions were added by Moxi Media. All the information is here. Is there anything wrong with that? Oh, it's all right. Oh dear, The body is getting better and better. Oh dear, Hate It's quite good You're a bad guy Come and see me oh, do not move hand or foot, What are you afraid of oh, wait a minute Can not see, does not matter Alas, to give you a good stuff Oh, don't worry Director Can not wait Oh, wait Oh? Oh? What's the matter? Not ah Du wenjie, come out to me come in Who are you? Du Wenjie Have repeatedly tried to sneak into the private computer send each other's photos to the Internet If it is not Mr. M for you disruptions I guess, now I get inside to find you The school has 12 trophies on electronic sports 8 of them have a relationship with you What does it matter to you You won't be? Now that you know what, it would be easier Come with me, I will make your life, live more value I don't go Tomorrow at 12, North China Road I'll wait for you Feel shy ah, my big brother, little brother good luck today, How, come again a bureau It's a little bit more win today I rub, cheat, chop his brother Say, which hand to leave? Left hand or right hand? Sorry ah, do not lose it No, no need Stop, stop, stop, Who are you Don't meddle Good skill ah man Hi, brother. How are you? Handsome boy, how are you? Oh, man I promise to go with you, but you have to be responsible for me, you know Look at what you are looking for, ah, do not know a little polite Chi Long, put him down for me Alas, a brother, a joke, a joke, a joke, ha ha I'll give you a music. The atmosphere is so depressing. You three, go with him Let's go Wow, the best ah Your boy is incorrigible ah, now Old rules I tell you will not look at your dad's face, would ask you to leave Cut! Guys, come, sit sit Oh, my name is Li Haofan we later called me hao fan is good, from now on, everyone is their own people, and do not mention it You are so boring, t his is a good name, brother Ha ha...... Good! Anything else? This batch of rookie how ah? There are several materials that can be made, especially the one called &quot;Ling Chuan&quot; This kid, but a thorn Let me go, Dad Let me go, Dad Wine does not call me, it is not enough Every day you hung what dry face, just a friend I don't need any friends Do you want to play with me again? We live in a dormitory, want to fight, anytime I heard you were an orphan, in fact, I like you, my home is open school, when I was younger, parents is not in, I even can't remember what they look like, Grandpa brought me, then my grandfather died, he put the martial arts and I entrusted my uncle, can my uncle only money, not long before the school was closed, I can only hang out in the street, but home to eat and drink with wear, is I get back from the street, you don't treat me as a bad person, Let's be a friend I go, there is wine, there is wine, why don't you call me you, ah That is, you are too selfish Go, take one, come Cheers! Courage enough fat ah, incredibly still dare to steal drink in this, Leng why, our that? There is a Come, give Hello, Han Yiming Know you, good skill ah We are together is fate, since there is a reason, that we are brothers, brothers, we have to get the brother of the two words, come, we have to do a cup of brothers Come Good Cheers! Alas, this girl, I asked, she called the Mu Qing, for we came in the instructor's sister said, ah, can not make it, is the tiger level Lihaofan Oh, oh You roll me down Don't, well, I shall punish one, you don't get angry, calm down Fast, set What's up Alas Attention At ease How to find a black, to understand Chinese? Column Me? Repeat what you said just now I just said...... What is the problem to make a report Presentation! Obey orders, obey orders, and obey orders See on the opposite side of the mountain the next task, came to the top of the hill, back on the road, not far, only 50 km, 6 o'clock here I am waiting for you, did not arrive on time you have to Lao Tzu undressed and heard no Understand! Attention Turn left at the double march You just violated military discipline, you know how to do? Report, know Set out GoGoGoGo &quot;Straighten up those backs!Straighten up those backs!&quot; Are you a little girl? Are you a little girl?&quot; I was designed for everyone I was designed for everyone It can not only call it also can kill One two Right now this is the final exam. This will decide who stays and who goes. If you succeed you will be a part of the team. If you fail, well I don't need to say what will happen then. Right? Next, I will tell you the rules of this exam. One, you are not allowed to take weapons. Two, you can only take one meal. Three, I don't want to hear a peep out of anybody. If you are not a rookie then within seven days you will get to the target During this time you will pass three obstacles. 168 hours after this, I will see you again. This is what the ghost place, have been hungry for four days, and even a rabbit are not, these days on your, high protein Here is a military base, everywhere is mine, where to what the wild rabbit, even if there are also long ago was killed Oh, mama You are so bad for you Has not eaten I did not eat, huh. huh And so on, do you smell I smelled the smell of roast meat Barbecue? Oh, it's like someones having a barbecue, just over there Wait, I don't think it's right Oh, no, I dont care. I'll go and see come back Oh dear How to eat without Eat what eat ah, just two people have been eliminated Your own food, you eat, we do not eat It's all the time. I'll eat it first keep low I surrender, I surrender Take out Wait a second Lingchuan Are you all right? I'm OK Yiming Well, you guys are all right Don't worry Go I respect you a cup In recent years, we are very hard, give you a holiday, to relax Holiday, where are we going? Of course the man should go to the place Take me with you chuan brother, do not go together ah I want to walk alone I want to be with you I have something else, go ahead. Bye-bye This person is so boring Let's go, go Have time to come see you, smoke less, and, if the money is not enough, you said to me Lingchuan What the hell are you guys Who is your boss? In the end for which organizational effectiveness? Answer me quickly Ling Chuan, save me Muqing What's wrong of you Don't talk nonsense, answer my question What the hell are you guys? What are you going to do? Who we are is not important, I just want to know who you are I'm not going to tell you You killed me if you had the power Looks like you're not going to say it Congratulations, cross the border Hou Xiaolei, Zhao Jianhui, Dai Changshui Zhou Kunpeng, Han Yi Ming, columnn The 5 of you, so I am very disappointed to pack up and get out This...... I said, &quot;the phantom&quot; agent group, formally established Ling Chuan code &quot;Assassin&quot; is your captain Chilong code &quot;iron fist&quot; Muqing code&quot;Rose&quot; Li haofan code &quot;colorful cat&quot; Du Wenjie code &quot;devil's hand&quot; There is a task, this can not be easy to deal with The coming, sooner or later According to reliable sources, this time to the transaction, is a new face is sincere, he is through an intermediary (Tang Ni) was introduced, before trading in and new buyers, he never other positive contact, the purpose is to secure, but it gives us an opportunity, the two sides and have not met, only know the transaction location and transaction time, transaction signal only, Is this car &quot;sea N H1P11&quot; black car, A Cheng where the group on the surtace is a listed company, in fact it took control of the Southeast Asian drug sales network, our mission is. Before A Bin arrived, trading location intercepted A Bin, and he was disquised as a contact with the seller, get the trust of each other, to find the exact location of drug manufacturing plant, and destroy it! Why don't you tell me Here you are Oh, why are you so small ah Ok ok ok Your phone, sir OK, I know Where to run Don't run away. Oh, I hold you. Here here Go I catch you. Cheng brother, what do you mean Come out, or be careful Money? Cargo? Ha ha ha, Cheng brother, in the future I this road, you have to go Ha ha ha, good, hope that we cooperate happily Have a cordial working relationship All in How about D......Dead, Dead? OK, don't mention this in advance Oh, here it is Yo, is a handsome boy Chuan brother, this is my friend, Aya Chuan brother, The first time out to play ah, so nervous Excuse me, I'm going to the bathroom Why are you, oh Handsome, enjoy a face to drink a cup of wine Thank you A song for every one in the seat We want to invite you to a glass of wine Oh, I'm not going Go Why are you, oh Come on, have a drink with me I can't drink Holding I really can't drink drink Wait, I'll drink for her This is brother brother Kun, wherever he goes, it is not good to do this. Are you teaching me to do things? Afraid to Ah Ah, help ah Stop What a wild field to me All are their own, do not hurt the gas A Kun, come out with me This is your house Well, thank you for saving me Well, I'm going to go first You...... You say first Otherwise, you say it first Oh, just get your clothes dirty, Or I'll wash it for you Well Oh Yeah, well, to you Me i...... Nothing, then I left Well Oh, what's your name Lingchuan Brother, when feel shy ah Well, I asked you to come, but also to give you a formal introduction, so after all what will happen to misunderstanding, ha ha, this is called Lu Kun, is my brother, A Kun, you call thin bin brother ah, after we have a lot of cooperation with him Brothers, not to fight not to know, many have offended Cough Well, come on, you two have a drink, and the future is a brother Well, first dry or the king Come Cheng brother 23442462868 Oh, l'm sorry Nothing, nothing Hey, A Bin said that the cooperation that was really happy ah, the so-called draft forget who dug, let this man in the middle, Is this the man from our side? hahaha Who is it? Say Yo, brother ah, just introduce you to new customers, I how to take the gun on the reception Haha, it's you We work together, do not hurt feelings Good A Bin ah, I give you an introduction to the goods is not bad Ha ha, first-class goods You boy, dont tell me This is not to play brother here, don't know Tang Ni brother are rude Come on, everybody drinks one Cheng brother, a misunderstanding, I respect you a cup Cheers! Sit sit Also your clothes Yo, this is not the day, oh, the original is Bin brother woman Honest brother you really will be a joke, how can I look at her I see very good ah, do not have to catch up with it, whether or not to help you ah We drink and drink Good Downstairs I'm going to sleep, you go You do not come down, I cried Dare you Chen Shiyu, chen Don't shout, I come down What you call, not too embarrassing Who won't let you down Who is so late Should not stay here, with me How do you know where I am Originally is to give you the clothes, the results to see you with the help of people together, I am afraid you have an accident, it has been followed you, did not expect Worried about me Not yet You don't admit it yet There is no You, you hate, ignore you Don't go, close your eyes 3, 2, 1 open eyes Ah, beautiful As long as you like, what do I want to do Next time I take you to a more beautiful place Where is it? Feng Lingwan OK I told you to say, we are too naive, let all the old fox instructors to cheat, we really thought you were eliminated Well, I don't want to do that I wish you success Tang Ni If I had left in the organization, your position would have to be mine I told you ah, the captain, not so good when the I come here for so long, have not found any traces of the factory, I am afraid the specific location of the factory only BOSS and sincere know However, I feel safe sports is certainly a problem, but his company heavily-guarded, I tried several times to sneak off, but failed His safe has a fingerprint identification system, I am afraid that only he can play open The person I truly understood too much, he works insidious, extremely cruel and merciless I always feel that this thing is not so simple But brother you worry, now the ace in your hand, you are now his big client This is the time to really talk Hum hey hey hey Brother, you are this to me, is not so simple to eat a meal Cheng is a man, since it is clear, I understand that, today, please come here, I am in order to work with the factory Oh, brother, you this message can be informed enough ah, It is big business people Don't do something big, my side of the brothers how to do ah Is ah, but when it comes to this business, our integrity, honesty is the money we earn, these years in this way, but with my sincere shuaxinyan, their fate, you know Cheng, what do you mean, you say it Hum We are their own people, playing with you, does not mean to play with me, who are all for the sake of the brother, sInce I belleve that I am, then I will go this way in the future, I do not know Ah, how young people so impulsive, sit sit I don't believe you, but this thing, I can't do it alone. I have to ask my boss That's good news, and so on Hey hey hey hey hey You wait for me ah Cheng brother This A Bin ah, very close to the boss's appetite ah, we will have to work with him in the future, the future of this matter, you have to give me a little bit more beautiful, you hear it? Yes, boss What is this? This is my favorite restaurant. I used to be alone In fact, I can see that you have a lot of worries Would you like to tell me if you can I pick up the phone Hello Our boss has agreed to work in the factory. We will see you tomorrow, and we will not have enough manpower to bring all of you Ok, I got it What, is this fish worth? a huge sum of money When can I go back? Wait for this thing to do, we are waiting for you Take care of yourself We have enough hands to bring all of you here Yiming Yiming, Wake up, Yiming Don't worry about me, I got a bomb What? Go, Go No, go with it Take care of my family Yiming Hello, Chen Shi Yu ah, oh, that my brother had an accident in the city hospital, Room 301 30 301 Long Ge, can I help you? Oh, you go to the nurse said the captain of the room to the opposite of the 328, I feel that there is something peculiar smell inside the room Oh, Long Ge, why are you so familiar with here Oh, this is not our agents should have the characteristics of it, to any unfamiliar place. the first thing is to understand the surrounding environment Long Ge, or say you better than anyone carefully, ok this thing on me ah, I go oh Nurse Huh? How can I change my house here? Oh, that's what the man who asked for it to change Ling Chuan Ling Chuan, how are you, you wake up ah, you do not ignore me ah, how are you in the end, you promised to take me to see the sea, is not to say that you have forgotten, ah, Ling Chuan, please, you wake up, as long as you can wake up what I do, like, what I have promised you Who are you? You are not Ling Chuan ah What's wrong with you? All right, you really what all promise me? You scared me, i...... How have you hurt here? Let me have a look Nothing, nothing Then you will understand I thought it was you You're not my wife, I don't have to be Ling Chuan, Chuan brother, you all right, Chuan brother Today I was discharged, you should be happy, how to face it Ling Chuan, I really do not know how to know you in the end is right or wrong What's wrong, how do you say that You in the end is what people? Who are you in contact with? I'm your boyfriend You know what? Sometimes I think you are very strange, especially not true, do you think we will have a future? I assure you, you will have me in the future life, I will not leave you in this life Then you promised me, after not allowed to contact with the gang, in fact, I am particularly afraid of losing you Oh, how? It's not my wife. I'm starting to take care of me That you should not agree? Well, I promise you. Did you hurt a little better? Much better Are you also think, there is a mole in the organization What do you think of Li Haofan's killing of A Bin? Accident So simple The man called Lu Kun, is one of them, but also the assassination of my man, I played with him, although he covered his face, but his neck tattoo on my impression All the information is here Is there anything wrong with that? Oh, it's all right Has anyone been in the record room before? Thank you Yes Chilong Hello, Ling Chuan the record room information was taken away, according to my investigation, the ghost is likely...... Ah Ray instructor, ray instructor What is it? I do not know. just open the door on the ground to put this, to you Oh, you go. Be gone Your father wants to live, draw them out, time and place of you, I give you time to consider a day, 12 noon tomorrow, I will talk to the way, to tell you the best squares address, no tricks, you know the concequences I'm going to give my brother a revenge, you go? Well you do not go, you do not go, is not it? You don't go to me Muqing Muqing, Teacher's death we are very sad, please don't do this, don't...... Get the hell out of here! My brother is so highly of you, he is dead now, don't you be completely indifferent? Muqing You have to remember that the organization to our task, to the overall situation is the most important Then you say how to do? My brother is so dead in vain? You may rest assured that we will find the murderer, for his revenge, I promise! Mr. Chen, you are calling Brother, I gave you a good thing, micro anesthesia gun, after you absolutely can use the I'm in Fenglingwan. I will wait for you until you come! What the hell is going on? What's going on? You and Mu Qing Since you know, I will not deceive you, is what you see What about me? Then what am I? I have always been so, did not expect to hurt you, I'm sorry Ling Chuan you don't go, we can go back to the right, You don't do this to me When the occasion arises for fun why do you really find amusement That night, the thing is just play it? You bastard, I didn't think you would break up with me, I never want to see you again Hey, which one? 945896894264 Dial the wrong number Chuan, I noon to his phone, is a string of numbers, but I do not understand what that means What numbers 945896894264 Wait I beg your pardon 945896894264 All the way mail Haofan Alas You don't think this room has a taste Taste? No, just let me take your dragon to change the room Chuan brother, this in the end is what mean? Yo, LongGe, what are you doing here Come on, sit down Why, what's the matter with me? Oh, it's nothing Nothing to do? What's the time, but also send this thing Oh, give me a peace, and they don't know anything about it Okay, this ah, wrapped in my cat body, rest assured Long brother Captain, what is it today? You'll see later He said the location is right here A Kun, acting in a planned way Go You're going to stare Yes Get some action Stop You What about my father? Your father, you think of your father This thing is not what l do, it must be someone who has moved the hands and feet Hum Please give me one more chance, don't kill my father Who? come out You want to have a chance, OK, I'll give you a chance to kill him and I'll give you my father Long brother No, I can't do it You wait for your father to accept the body you colorful cat colorful cat, colorful cat, You wake up, colorful cat Chilong, Chilong Haofan Haofan, Haofan, You wake up, Haofan Chuan brother, this is the sound of the sound of the recording his thing is not what I do, it must have been a person moving hands and feet, Tgive me another chance, I beg you not to kill my father Haofan is your brother. Why do you do this? Why did you choose this path? I've been on this path before I go into the organization Oh...... I do not want to let him die, he died I also very sad, I really do not want to do so ah I want to die of that person is me, but I died, my father how to do? I really don't want to hurt you In the hospital, I let the cat make your room to change, because I really do not want to let you die, but you know what I got? They took my father live fingers chopped down to me, they are not human beings, is the devil What happened, you tell me There is a child, he is the envy of others family, his father was framed, addicted to debt owed large sums of money, they took the father, the mother can not accept the reality, from the ten floor jumped down and died in front of the children, you know when my mother died how miserable it you know, do you know how big it is the fight for a 8 year old helpless child? Mother went like this, but my father still in their hands, the little boy can only rely on black boxing debt for father Go back with me and take it with me, and I'l try to save your father, and tell me the location of the factor Already too late, I know what will be the result of Remember that sentence? Is a brother, you have to get up to the brother of these two words! Believe me Sorry, I don't have a choice Oh, how today? Come, my dear, and give you a drink. Hey hey hey, oh, oh Aya, I ask you to drink before please not ah, you are, what do you mean? Brother ah, was a small woman with eyes after this ah, entertain an angel unawares, also hope to your brother ah, take care of a lot Ha ha ha, what do you want me to take care of, huh? How would you like to take care of it? I, I think so much If I help you get it, what good would I do? As long as you do as I say, the benefits of nature, you can not A brother, you this robber also has enough to eat, too, I have guests, go ahead Think over On your worst, see you next time come in Chuan, weapons have been loading Welcome to our home, we are the people of this place ah, Rhe hospitality, you will be here as their own home on the line Oh, ladies and gentlemen, what are you doing? How to come to this place to no human habitation? Us...... This is a delicious food We are passing by, disturbing you It doesn't matter, you mention it, since we have the chance to meet, that we are friends, come to us to do this bow of wine Car, car...... My These are all of them, go Chuan brother Aya ShiYu Ha ha ha, I said Ling Chuan, you look at this is who, you'd better not give me tricks Chuan, the factory is only 5 kilometers from here Ling Chuan, I've heard so much about you Let her, I stay Hum, it has since come, go with it make sense Ling Chuan ShiYu I have nothing to do with you now, what are you doing Hey hey, what's the time, this kind of words you two to the following to say Captain You Boss, but also to seize the two Well, ha ha ha, all to Qi, good, then let you die, let you all know I lay the foundation for decades, since it can be destroyed in the hands of your rabbit? Well? You are the boss, the old thing, you work for him, I keep him satisfied, he wants us to die here, then he retired as a hero he thought the beauty Well?! Interesting Come, let me hold you, let's go to the other one, uh, bark, ha ha ha ha Ha ha, ah, the red dragon, you give me out, look at your dad, you do not come out, I will let you talk to your Dad together to go to meet the devil You do not come out, I set here to burn completely, I let you go with several brothers Look, bastard, you fight with me, you see his head hard, or your kid's hard character ChiLong You guys are all right Ah...... Dad...... Fast...... Be careful Your dad asked me to kill you, not a dutiful son, come out Dad...... Hahahaha Here you are, ah Tell you a little secret ah, your thunder instructors, is dead my this knife under the ShiYu ShiYu ShiYu, You wake up, ShiYu LingChuan How can you be so silly That thing in the end is not true? I am afraid to hurt you, so i...... It's all right. You're going to help them You really have nothing to do Well Wait for me Well MuQing Pay close attention to From the day I entered the organization, I will know the results we can immediately and meet their parents, I'm not an orphan, in this life the only regret, is to know you this gtoup of brothers, the captain let go ah No, I have lost a brother, I can not lose you, you hurry to ChiLong Since there is a reason, then we are brothers, brothers, you have to have the two words of the brothers Rabbit ah you think you win? Ah ha ha ha ha I'm filled with bombs Captain LingChuan I want to let you go Run!