On the 10th of April, 1991, the Moby Prince with another ship, resulting in an oil The crew promptly radioed for help and herded The Moby Prince was mere minutes and the fire was spreading relatively slowly. rescued in plenty of time... and yet as The fire on board the Moby Prince would turn Italian history, in part because of a few tiny The Moby Prince was built in 1967 in an originally operated by a dutch company, sailing In 1984 the vessel was sold to NAVARMA, numerous routes between the mainlands On the day of the disaster the Moby Livorno (a destination popularly known Olbia in Sardinia - a journey that would normally and the seas were calm as 75 passengers boarded Given that the ferry had a maximum capacity of At 22:03 the Moby Prince departed. Nothing seemed harbour at Livorno. However, before it could another ship that was sitting at anchor. The Agip of tons of crude oil. The Moby Prince's prow spraying a huge quantity of oil The two craft were briefly stuck together Abruzzo was able to maneuver in such a way as more oil to be ejected from the damaged tank. maintain control after the collision, the The oil which had sprayed onto their ship had blazing inferno on the prow. The crew were forced so with such haste that there was not time even to the Moby Prince remained in motion, spiraling With the crew forced out of the control room by ferry was chaotic. The fire soon spread across rafts an impossible task. Instead crew members interior of the ship. This was a room specially Meanwhile the radio operator was making repeated fixed radio set in the control room, and so &quot;Mayday. Mayday,&quot; he called. &quot;Moby Prince. We are on fire. Firemen needed.&quot; And &quot;Mate, if you do not help us As the fire consumed the ship the De Luxe initially tolerable even as waves of fire The crew and passengers waited. They had barely could not escape their situation by themselves, What the passengers and crew on was that a terrible failure in communications Rescuers had indeed been mobilized from the Abruzzo. The tanker was now ablaze, and intense Nobody was looking for the stricken Moby Prince, reported that the collision had been with a small To those on scene, extinguishing the fire and Agip Abruzzo took priority over looking for which they believed to be a small Authorities might have been alerted by but the transmission was weak and may have misunderstood the garbled message The end result of these failures of communication Nobody realized that there were souls on it wasn't until an hour had passed that the The tugboat which located it also rescued the a ship's boy who had thrown himself from the Finally realizing that another large craft was in on the Moby Prince. The flames were extinguished as quickly as possible. Eventually a lone rescuer time any meaningful rescue could be affected the By this time there was nobody left alive to save. were deceased... but they hadn't been killed by It was discovered that as the crew of the Moby time to switch off the air conditioning system. As monoxide and other poisonous gases into the De While the vast majority of victims were found the deck itself. Despite the devastation around that they had survived the choking fumes in the De only to be overwhelmed by the heat radiating A videotape found in the ruins of the De Luxe the heat and fumes within the shelter had for help had been heard, if the Moby Prince there is every chance that the majority In the aftermath of the disaster It was a complex one, with few clear conclusions. Poor visibility caused by localized fog the initial collision... but some qualified stating that visibility on the night was clear. Likewise the Agip Abruzzo might have been been anchored... but conflicting reports prevented A rumor that the crew of the Moby Prince had been appeared in newspapers... but following questioning of the lone survivor. It was noted that military ships might have collision, with some believing that covert ship off course and collide with the tanker. Again, With this multitude of uncertainties, apportioning impossible. Several individuals were charged, and members of the Port Authority... or the people accused were absolved of any looms large in the public consciousness, with many and those responsible have gotten While the exact truth of every aspect of the Moby certain: this was a disaster wherein several small mayday call, a collision incorrectly reported, Were it not for any of these mistakes things of the Moby Prince was a disaster that came