This documentary tells the story of a Holocaust survivor; therefore, the story and the images can be disturbing and affect the sensitivity of some people. Hitler appointed chancellor. A curious man named Hitler has risen to power in Germany. This fight is merciless! And irrevocable! The Jew wanted this war! I'm going to meet Margot. And no, if not, if I drown. I'm on the subway, and he's going to give me something huh, I wish I had brought Diazepam. Surely, you are not understanding, why I was trembling, before meeting this lady, so adorable. This is Margot Friedlander, and today, November 5, 2021, she is 100 years old. Look, almost almost, we have birthdays on the same day. But our lives are not much alike, mine has always been the most normal, school, university, work, family life, house in the same neighborhood. However, when I talked to Margot, I realized that she had not lived just one life, but 4. You see, Margot is Jewish, she was born on November 5, 1921 in Berlin. She survived the Holocaust, and this is her first life. .. &quot;FIRST LIFE&quot; I was very young when Hitler appeared. I was 12 years old. One is still very young at that age. I had a very beautiful youth, and childhood too. I had many relatives, a lot of family, many uncles, aunts, cousins... We had a country house in Scharmutzelsee, next to a large lake. We used to go there on weekends, at Easter or Pentecost. My brother was 4 years younger than me, so he was still a child. When I started adolescence is when everything started to get more difficult. Let them be careful! One day our patience will run out! And then we will shut the insolent lying mouth of the Jews! Hitler comes to power in 1933. Germany was in one of its worst crises and he blames the Jews for the country's decline. In fact, he believes that they are the origin of all evil and through his repeated anti-Semitic rhetoric he makes an entire country believe that the Jews are greedy, thieves, a racial degeneracy and that they usurp the rights of Christians. Consequently, I have decided, on January 30, to use my party, before 7 men and now 12 million, to save the nation and the fatherland. But why the Jews? The truth is that Christian Europe, more nationalistic, had never felt sympathy for them, but Hitler goes beyond religious prejudice and turns it into something racial. If the Nazis had started by murdering all the Jews, the whole world would have raised their hands to their heads. What they did was gradually develop stereotypes and prejudices against them, constantly repeating them in newspapers, on posters, in speeches, until people believed them. Here we are. We are ready to lead Germany into a new era. Germany! All Germany today will see its children in you Marching with proud joy! The idea was, first, to exclude them from society and dehumanize them, in order to finally exterminate them. So they did it very little by little. To give you an idea, every day there was a new anti-Semitic law, and between 1933 and 1935 about two thousand were created. 1933, Jews are excluded from public service jobs for being unreliable people . They cannot study in schools or universities with other Germans. 1935, they are denied citizenship. According to Hitler, there are also inferior races and superior races. The Germans are among the peoples of superior races, the Aryan race, and the Jews, inferior. If they want to be a strong people, they have to make their race pure, so Jews are forbidden to marry or have sexual relations with people of German blood. 1937, Jewish children are prohibited from being admitted to schools. 1938, all Jewish passports will carry a jot, they are forced to declare their property, they are prohibited from having weapons, they are prohibited from entering hospitals, they are prohibited from leaving the country, they are prohibited from go to the movies, the theater or play sports. You see where I'm going, right? But now we are in 1935. Margot is unaware of all this. Thinking of a gas chamber right now is sheer madness, and somehow, even though little by little all their rights will be taken away, human beings are not prepared to think of the worst. In fact, when they heard about concentration camps or murders, they thought it was a lie and decided to stay in Germany. I went to school until I was 16 or 17, and at 16 I started studying fashion for a year. I wanted to learn how to create dresses, and I was studying for a year and a half. It was a tiny room and until then he had been an apprentice. And then came the 38th, the night of the broken glass, and with that the apprenticeship ended, yes. The night of broken glass, occurred on November 9, 1938 and was an action organized by the State in which practically all the synagogues in Germany were burned, and Jewish shops, schools, cemeteries and hospitals were destroyed. That night, more than 100 Jews were killed and 30,000 were sent to concentration camps. The Jews realized that not only did they no longer have rights as Germans, but now they were also worse than rats. The police were against them, they had no right to any type of justice, people could insult them on the street, they could hit them, they could rob their business, and they no longer had any type of right, because in the eyes of the law they were committing a crime. The crime of being alive. In 1938, on the Night of Broken Glass, our parents were already divorced and we were afraid because we didn't know where our father had stayed . After a few days, he contacted us and told us that he had hidden. But his business, well, our business had been &quot;Aryanized.&quot; Have you ever heard that word before? It meant that it no longer belonged to him... In 1941... we no longer had permission to have our own apartment and they sent us to an apartment called... House of Jews. It was in 1934 when emigration began. And my father used to say back then: &quot;I can't understand you leaving!&quot; Because he believed that the situation would not last long. But my uncle said that you couldn't live here anymore. And more or less from 34/35/36/37, naturally it became more difficult because friends, family, little by little left, the circle of friends became smaller and... and our life changed. Why didn't we leave? My father had fought for Germany in World War I, was awarded the Iron Cross, lost a brother. We felt German, why did we have to leave? Please, at that time few people left. It was in 1938, after the Night of Broken Glass, when I said: Hitler is not going to leave, we have to go. And then it was already too late. It was hard enough to go anywhere. The countries closed and no longer let us enter. We tried everything to leave. My father, who, as I have told you, did not want to emigrate, left us. We also wanted to think that this was not going to last. Racism and the fear of hosting refugees with different ethnic and religious backgrounds is unfortunately not new. When the Jews tried to leave the country, the world turned its back on them by closing its borders. The Allied countries refused to take in Holocaust refugees, even though they knew full well what was happening in Europe. One of the requirements, to let them in, was to have a valid passport, when they knew full well that since 1941 the Jews had not had one, because Germany had taken away their nationality. America did nothing. You had to... they asked you for a deposit, and the fundamental thing was the number of installments, that it was something that came from the government and they did not give us to the Jews. The number of quotas was very high, and only very few people could afford to emigrate. and only very few people could afford to emigrate. Surely you know the story of a ship that had to go to Cuba and when it arrived they were not allowed to enter. They were near the coast of Florida, they stayed there for a week and they had to negotiate. And they didn't let those 1,000 people in, and they didn't really know: &quot;If we make them come back, they'll end up in a concentration camp.&quot; In fact, many came from the countryside, and they had been let out because they were going to emigrate. My mother tried everything. A sister who immigrated to Brazil sent us the necessary papers, and when my mom went to the consulate and delivered the papers, and the man saw us, he said: &quot;Your sister has run into a scammer. These are not the necessary papers.&quot; He paid a lot of money for them. Everything had been tried. I want to tell you one thing: if they had allowed us to emigrate, 6 million people would not have died. My life started to be difficult the day my brother was arrested. My mother was not in vasa, and neither was I Martgot still finds it difficult to talk about the day her family was taken to Auschwitz. It was... It's... You know... I... It's not easy to talk about this. He asked us if he could read us from his book how it all happened. Walk along Skalitzer Street. It's 2:00 pm, a gray day in January in Berlin - Kreuzberg. I am so immersed in my thoughts that I hardly notice the man who is walking more or less a block from me. It is January 20, 1943. I only think about tonight. We want to leave Berlin. My mother, my brother and me. The escape has been planned for a long time. We have met today on the floor for the last time, to reach an agreement. If all goes well, these are my last hours in Berlin. What will it be like where we want to go? It will be better than here, at least that's what we think. It is what we expect; It is our last hope. Suddenly I notice that something is not right. I look up. That man who walked in front of me, there's something I don't like about him. I look at his dark coat. Instinctively I adapt my pace to his steps. I'm scared and I don't know why. The man disappears at the entrance. It's number 32. Instinctively I hold my bag against my chest, to hide the yellow star that we had to carry. Should I continue walking? But where? I have to go home. I don't want to change anything in our plan, otherwise everything will fail. Number 32 is a common rental house in Berlin, the ocher yellow paint has turned dark, etc. Our apartment is located at the front, on the second floor. There is no trace of the man. So I go - I quickly go up the stairs. But then I see it. It's on the second floor. Directly in front of our flat. He is leaning on the door. I don't look at him. I stare at an invisible point in the air. Can you imagine, for a young girl to have an experience like that was the... The most horrible moment of my life. Because it was when I realized: Why is he at the door? No one? Where are they? My mother, my brother... What happened? Who are you waiting for? I'd like to go back down, but it's too late to go back. Naturally, you can imagine, he would have noticed, he would have followed me. I do not have any other option. My steps resound on the stairs, at the same rate as before, neither faster nor slower. I keep clutching my bag to my chest. Then I have to get past him. I'm so close that he could touch me, but I don't look at him, I dedicate all my strength to show indifference . What does this man want? Why is it at our door? Who are you waiting for? I stand on the third floor. I have to make a decision quickly. I ring a doorbell decisively. I hardly know the neighbors who live here, even though their flat is just above ours. In fact, they are not Jews. I have never talked to them. Now I'm praying they're home. Sure enough, I hear footsteps approaching the door. Short, firm steps. High heels that echo on the floor of the entrance. They are the steps of a woman. The door opens and the neighbor recognizes me immediately. I'm afraid he'll greet me out loud but he's speechless, waves me in, and closes the door. This, for example, is the first moment in which some German Christians helped me, something that was prohibited. Now I have it clear: something horrible must have happened. I see it in his eyes. He invites me into the living room, points to a chair. Feel. She sits in front of me. &quot;They have come&quot; says the neighbor in a low voice. as if the man on the landing could still hear us. &quot;Gestapo&quot;. &quot;When?&quot; I ask him. &quot;In the morning,&quot; he tells me, a few hours ago. Suddenly someone shouted down the stairs: OPEN! OPEN! Then I heard noise down the stairs. I ran to the window and watched them go out the door. They were pushed into a police car.&quot; &quot;Who?&quot; I ask. &quot;A man and a woman, about 25 years old, I didn't know them. And also the boy&quot;. My brother Ralph. &quot;And my mother?&quot; &quot;She told me to send you a message&quot; And she tells me what my mother can no longer tell me herself: &quot;I have decided to turn myself in to the police. I'm going with Ralph, wherever he is. Try to live your life&quot;. And why do you think that message was so short? Because she didn't want to wait for me... Because she gave herself up, and if she had waited for me... I wouldn't have let her leave, or I I would have gone with her, obviously. And that's what she wanted to avoid, because... That was her decision. That's what I've been dragging with me all my life. Have I done the right thing? But Mom had told me: try make your life. I was the eldest. My brother was the youngest. You have to think that... I was the eldest but I was 21 years old, always alone and without parents, with no one to stay here. With no money, with nothing. Margot never saw her mother or her brother again. The mother, Auguste, was sent to the gas chamber as soon as you arrived at Auschwitz. Ralph, the brother, endured the harsh conditions of the camp for a month. She died at the age of 16. The two 25-year-olds that the neighbor did not know were Margot's cousin and her husband. They came to say goodbye because Margot's family was going to march r that day. Both died in Auschwitz. Where could it have gone? I only knew Jewish people. So I went to a friend's house, where I spent the night. The next day I went to a relative's house. She was not Jewish. She had been married, but divorced, to a cousin of my mother's. She was Swiss and a Christian. I went over there and wait - ring the bell. He was surprised to see me. She hoped we'd be gone by now. He had taken many of our things: furniture, paintings, and he said to me: &quot;Why are you here?&quot; So I said, &quot;I hope you can help me. I want to hide.&quot; And he answered: &quot;If you don't help your mother, I can't help you either.&quot; And I said: &quot;How can I help her? She's with the Gestapo.&quot; &quot;Then go with her!&quot; And I also said those words to myself, but on the other hand my mother had told me to live my life. She didn't want me to give myself up. We just didn't know what what could happen. We never knew... then the trains, which had already been running for more than a year, they always told us they were going to the east. But only a week before the liberation I learned what Auschwitz was. So I went back to some Jewish friends, they gave me the address of someone they worked with at the factory. That was the first place I hid. I had 16 different accommodations. Sometimes I only stayed one night or two. Margot spent a year and half living in hiding, she dyed her hair and had a nose job to look less Jewish. All those who helped her were Germans with a different ideology from Hitler. A network of contacts had been formed between them and Margot slept every two days in the homes of strangers who risked their necks to save her. It's easy to say, but we're talking about a 21-year-old girl alone sleeping in strangers' houses while Berlin was being bombed day and night. When almost the entire city was already destroyed, she couldn't go to the bunkers to protect herself from being seen by the guards, so she had to stay home alone covering her ears hoping for luck. And how did they arrest him? As was? That is precisely the reason. for which I do not judge the Germans. Because back then, in these difficult times, they helped me. They did something that could have cost them their heads: Help me as a Jew. I went with the people who helped me, after a year and months, to a bunker, because I didn't get to go home that day, and on the way back, the &quot;Greifer&quot; (Jews who collaborated with the Gestapo) came and they asked us for our passports. The people I went with, that is, the ones here in the photo, naturally had one. I didn't have any. the people who were with me left, and I said that I was Jewish and they arrested me. When Margot was caught, he was relieved because he felt that he was betraying his own by having another destination. Something that caught my attention about Margot was her remorse for having survived. After reading interviews, I realized that it is something that all survivors have in common. All agree that the best of them did not return home. When Margot arrives at the police station, she finds Estela Kostya, better known as the blonde poison, there. Estela, in addition to being famous for being a Jew who collaborated with the Nazis by ratting out Jews, is in fact believed to have ratted out between 600 and 3,000 Jews in exchange for 300 Reichsmarks. He also worked with Margot's brother at the Siemens factory. Margot still believes today that Estela was the person who cut short the future of her family by betraying them on January 20, 1943. And I was very lucky, after so many weeks, that they didn't send me to Auschwitz. There were no more Jews left, only the ones they were catching. Then the transports were already gone. (He refers to the trains to Auschwitz) And they sent me to Theresienstadt Theresienstadt was different. It was an old camp, so there was no gas chamber. It was very different from Auschwitz. I was very lucky. Margot says she was lucky because in 1942 the Final Solution was put into action, a plan by the Nazis to completely exterminate the Jews. They then began the construction of extermination camps, including Auschwitz, where they created gas chambers and came to gas 24,000 people per day. It is estimated that they murdered 11 million people, including 6 million Jews, 800,000 Gypsies, 300,000 disabled people and 250,000 homosexuals. They gave us very little to eat, of course, we had beds on two or three floors. The latrines were outside, in the garden, in the patio. I left Mica. Mica is a type of stone, it is used for insulation, you had to make small pieces of it. dividing the platelets, and then did the work of crumbling them every day, and every day they weighed what we had done. I was very good at it. I was late for work one day. They interrogated me very harshly, the foremen, and they told me: &quot;If you weren't so good at doing this, we would have already put you on a train to the east&quot; (Auschwitz) And, of course, you were afraid, because every day trains left from Theresienstadt to different places, then they only left for Auschwitz. There were quite a few fields. I survived Theresienstadt, but a week before the liberation a train arrived, and when they opened the doors I had to help them, when they opened the doors of those cattle cars, they all fell dead, and those who were alive... Those who were left alive seemed dead. And from there also came an acquaintance, which of course I did not recognize. And then we heard that they were coming from Auschwitz. Auschwitz had released them in January... and we were in... April. They were doing one of the death marches and when they could no longer advance, because the Russians were arriving on one side, and the Americans on the other, they were sent to Theresienstadt, the only camp that had not yet been liberated. And that's how we found out about Auschwitz. And it was at that moment, when I realized that I would never see my mother or my brother again. By the way, my mother left me her handbag, and there was her necklace and notebook. This is all I have left of my mother. And I was able during all that time, for a year, a year and three months, in the concentration camp, to have it and keep it with me. Did they let you keep it in the field? Yes, because it is not silver. &quot;FOURTH LIFE&quot; Theresienstadt, the concentration camp where Margot was, was liberated on April 14, 1945. This is how the German resistance lived it. This is how the survivors lived. That's how the Nazis lived it. And that's how the Germans lived to discover what the concentration camp really was. They had no idea . What was the first thing you did after the liberation? What did I do? Yes, when they released you. But if we stay in the field. Yes yes, but when they released you. Still... where could we go? Those who came from Czechoslovakia went home with the military. The Dutch sent buses and picked up the Dutch Jews. Many, many, many... we didn't know where to go... we had NOTHING. NOTHING No money, nothing. So they opened the camps PD, PD is a displaced person. We were displaced. These camps were to welcome us, give us food, give us medical follow-up, etc. UNRA, the United Restitution Organization, was received and military supplies arrived. And there you met your husband? No, I knew him from before. The theater I was in for a while, I didn't hear from it for 5 years, and it came to Theresienstadt from another concentration camp. And then you fell in love? I wasn't in love, no. In the conditions in which I found myself, one could not fall in love. I was happy that I could have someone. A person she already knew, who she could trust. And one day he asked me if I could imagine starting a new life with him, working and creating something together. He was lucky to have a sister in America. When we were in Theresienstadt, my husband had received a telegram from his sister. that he had read that he had survived and was waiting for him. &quot;Please find Adolf Friendander, and convey this message to him: Sister Ilse, glad you're alive. I'm married, what can I do for you? Love and kisses Ilse Friendander.&quot; And so it happened, after the liberation, that is, a year later, we arrived in America. So they let us in. When I arrived in America, we only had a small suitcase, with almost nothing inside, and I went by boat, and I saw the statue of liberty, which represents freedom, I thought: you didn't give it to us when we needed it. Now he no longer needed her, he was already released. I came to America of my own free will. What if I have resentment? I don't have any kind of grudge. When I go to read to the students (Margot is going to speak to schools) and I close the book, I say: &quot;You may be surprised that I came back (to Germany)&quot;, they are amazed. I came back to talk to you, to shake your hand, to ask you to be the witnesses of that time, because we won't be able to be for much longer. And it's for you, right? What happened we can no longer change, but it cannot happen again, for you. I have published a new book a week ago Look how it is titled: &quot;I do it for you&quot;. And as I have told you, what has happened has already happened. I met good people, good Germans who helped me, I have a different perception of people, and I believe that there is something good in everyone. I tell you: there is no Jewish, Christian, or Muslim blood, there is only human blood. We are all human, regardless of our color or religion. You are humans, and the humans did something inhuman. How is it possible that millions of people put their hands to kill others? And it wasn't just millions of Jews, it was millions of innocents! They were humans and humans did it. Why should I blame the young, or those born later, for something for which they are not at fault? I also don't want to know what your grandmothers and grandfathers did. That already happened. It is what I know. We all have something. I don't want to know. I want to focus on young people. It is for you. That is my mission. Margot's father, who had escaped to Brussels, was captured when the Germans reached Belgium. Margot could never find him, she thinks he died in a concentration camp. Margot's husband, Adolf Friedlander, died in 1997 in New York. For more than 28 years he was the director of administration of the largest Jewish center in the world. He never wanted to go back to Germany. Where Margot's school used to be there is now a sculpture to the more than 55,000 Berlin Jewish children murdered during the Holocaust. Stella Goldschach, the Jew who could have delivered Margot's family, converted to Christianity at the end of the war and openly declared herself an anti-Semite. He was sentenced to jail but never served his sentence. He committed suicide at the age of 72. Margot currently lives in Berlin. Today, November 5, 2021, he turns 100 and is going to celebrate with 100 friends. And they are friends, they are not acquaintances. Thanks to Margot Friedlander for opening the doors of her house for me and making me feel like one of her 100 friends without knowing me. I will always carry you with me, in my heart and on my skin.