(upbeat music) - [Briggs] Are you tired of the rat race? Wanna find a rural town to buy a home or maybe rent a place? Today, we're looking at great rural towns. What is going on, everyone. Welcome back to the &quot;World in a video about country living. If you're a remote worker looking for a place away from the big city, or let's say you're retired to the country, this video that may fit that bill. With these towns, we are a decent place to live that but not so far away that or something isn't like a 10 it's not a heart attack, Side note, I had a friend who She called 911, got the and was humiliated when they told her, &quot;No, you just have a lot of gas.&quot; I still don't think her All right, enough about my gassy friend. If you like this video, give it a like so we know that you want We found enough great small towns for three or four videos. All right, let's take a look (electricity buzzes) Number 10, Watford City, North Dakota. We start off with the great in a little town on the prairie called Watford, North Dakota. Now, they call it a city, this is a town. Watford only has 6,500 residents, and they all enjoy a nice country life. The nearest big city about two and a half hours If you want a quiet life in North Dakota, this is a good option. This is also a place for people that don't mind cold weather. One good thing about cold weather towns, they tend to be a little bit cheaper. Warmer places are expensive normally. Watford is equal to the national average when it comes to housing Crime's really not a thing here, that wasn't always the case. This was an oil boom They had some problems then, but the oil thing's kind of changed and it's nothing near what it once was. The crime has dropped through the floor. I mean, if you look at their news, that's usually good at a place, crime wise. And see what's the big headline, was it a shooting, was it a robbery, did someone get a home invasion? No, their big story here took his 92 year old because she never went to prom. You gotta love a town like that. Watford, like I'd said, in the last decade due to the oil boom. They had about 1,700 people in 2010, and now they got 6,500. So they blew up. For a while there, it was over 6,500, just for a couple years though. And then when the oil went, This is a nice place to live. The city has a website with all the info about relocating, help you resources on getting a mortgage. They also have info about local clubs and employment training. When it comes to buying a home here, Watford's all over the map. I mean, right now they that look like they need a little work, for around 120 to 150,000. They have a lot of newer And if you get outside of town, where most people looking you're gonna find things and go up to 600,000, but you're gonna get some acreage with it, so that's a plus. That's one that you wanna on this one 'cause like I When it comes to internet, AT&amp;T offers 25 megabytes But since the town is I think faster internet (electricity buzzes) Number nine, Wharton, Texas. Wharton is a little town about an hour Southwest Like I said, right on the Colorado River. And yes, there are two Colorado Rivers. This is the smaller one that runs through Austin and works its way down. Then you got the big one goes through Utah and then splits Nevada, Arizona, and California Every time I mention the when I'm talking about Austin I get at least one person telling me I'm an idiot 'cause the Colorado River There's two, stop typing. Wharton has decent homes and it goes up. This is a great place if The downside of this they don't have any. Crime rate's about, yeah, 14% higher than the national average. When you have a population a crime rate that's above is easy to pull off because you don't have a lot of people, and it goes by per capita. So in a place like this, that decided they're gonna or something like that, they next thing you know, the city's crime rate is like 20% higher than it should be. The crime rate isn't the But the employment situation is what makes this place so affordable. I mean they're losing population. In 2010, they had 8,800 residents. And right now, they have 8,600. So that's normally one that send people out of So if you're gonna move here, you better be retired and have or you had a good, I don't know, Mesothelioma attorney from Houston, and did a really great If you're not in one of those situations, you better bring a job with Side note, I know a man that because of an asbestos lawsuit. He retired to Texas when he got his structured settlement thing. Nicest guy in the world. He lives not too far from But Wharton is definitely You're just far enough away from Houston to have a nice rural lifestyle, and not too far away where if it's right there for you. (electricity buzzes) Number eight, Rivesville, West Virginia. Rivesville is a small place. In 2010, it had a population 2020, they had a population of 998 people. So they gained 60 people, that's not bad. In the 1900s, it was a very small town with a population of 164 residents, growing to 190 in 1910. This was right before the development of a large scale coal mining And as you can imagine, In the 1930s, this little town grew to about 1,700 residents. It has been losing population since the 1930s. 2020 was a difference. Now, I've been kind of and remote workers giving It's very affordable, it's beautiful, it does get cold, and it has great people. Some places might not for the remote worker, but Rivesville, West Virginia has Xfinity, and their website says 74% So that's good. It is cable internet, so for whatever you're doing And then for the guy who explained to me in detail that he's getting in Florida, and needs super fast internet, I'm not a big Comcast or Xfinity fan because I used to work but their internet is So don't worry about your from Florida. Regional West Virginia sits where it meets Paw Paw It is about 30 minutes and about an hour and a half south of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. So if you got big doctors appointments or you wanna see a Steelers You can get a livable home here And they look decent. There's one, the inside is beautiful. It needs a serious paint job, (laughs) but they made the inside I was like, &quot;This is amazing.&quot; And you look outside, you're all, homeless people It's just weird. Anyway, they have next to no crime. It's actually 71% lower (electricity buzzes) Number seven, Dripping Springs, Texas. Dripping Springs is a nice rural community about 30 minutes west of And it's about 20 minutes This is one of the most in all of Texas. This is a great place to go Dripping Springs used Back in the 2010 census, they Since then, it has blown up by about 250%. In 2020, according to the population was just below 7,000. Other than the planned communities they have popping up have a little bit of Now, this one isn't the and it is growing so it might but the area around if you could swing a Now, if you wanna get outside of town, that 400,000 will get you This is a very safe town with a crime rate that's 80% below the national average. Dripping Springs has a solid internet. You have AT&amp;T fiber and Spectrum fiber. And apparently, the whole city and even some of the outskirts by one of those two companies. (electricity buzzes) Number six, Whitestown, Indiana. Whitestown is a growing town just outside the Indianapolis This one is for people that but still wanna get a newer home. Not everyone's into buying Whitestown has had a popping up in the last decade or so, and they have some that The cost of living here is low, crime rate is low as well, 45% They have decent internet shows that you can get gig internet here. It also shows that they have Xfinity, and I find that kind of strange. Normally, small towns don't have overlapping cable companies. The population in Whitestown In 2010, it was just And in 2020, they had 10,000 people. So it's growing. The good news, it's about 30 minutes north of downtown Indianapolis. You're still living in a with new homes. Those new homes though for this part of the Plan on spending anywhere to get a really nice home. (electricity buzzes) Number five, Cape Springs, Arkansas. Cape Springs is a great small town That's just outside Fayetteville metro area. Cape Springs is about a 15 This is a great part of Arkansas. It doesn't share some of the other issues that the rest of Arkansas does, like epidemic poverty, dangerous cities, and lonely pig farmers named Ned. This is a great place to that sits around 85% lower Homes here start around 260,000. Usually, you get a half an And they get all the It does look like there's a little housing area going on there. So they're really not listing Most of Cape Springs is and CenturyLink. This is a great part of the state too if you like outdoor activities. Arkansas is never short of that, so that's something to look forward to if you're the outdoor-type person. (electricity buzzes) Number four, Thompson's Thompson's Station, like outta the way cities or is named after a train depot, or the guy who was You'd be surprised how often that happens. And how we get the names for our towns is always a great subject. I live near a place called But I've told this story before, originally, it was supposed to be Aloha. But the locals here didn't When they saw it on the This happened back in the 1950s. A local postmaster didn't have a name for this part of the county so he named it after his favorite place to vacation in Wisconsin, which was like Aloha Beach or something, it was on some lake. But anyway, this part and filled with country They just didn't know how to pronounce it. So we're stuck with Aloha. But Thompson's Station has had residents since at least the 1700s. Yeah, it's been around a while. It's located about 25 If this is the type of place keep an eye on Zillow or 'cause houses don't come There's only one for sale right and it's going for about $275,000. But I'm looking at the history of it, most of the homes right outside of town usually come with an acre or two. And it seems in the last few years, they've sold for 350,000. There is like no crime here. The crime rate is 84% lower The only downside here is the houses are a little bit expensive. They have good schools in the area. And like any good rural town, they don't have a bunch to do here. So you won't be finding a You might be able to find like And if you're lucky, you'll run into Ned, the lonely pig farmer from Arkansas. When you look at the internet it's okay. They've got Spectrum there. And the one house that's you can get Spectrum internet there, which can be up to like one gig. They also offer AT&amp;T in this area. It only gets up to like five Mbps. So that's not good. Definitely look into Spectrum But this is definitely a small town. In 2010, they had a population And in 2020, their population was just under 7,000 residents. (electricity buzzing) Number three, Cherokee, Iowa. Cherokee, Iowa is a nice little town about an hour southeast This is like one of the that have a main street It also has the Sioux River You gotta love a place the local news, it is which is sad, but it's not criminal. And a poaching case finally That's all their news. The only real problem here is internet. The internet might be a They've got CenturyLink that maxes out at 100 megabytes per second, and only about 85% of So that's kind of depressing. What's not depressing is they which is held every January. And the Cherokee County are held here every single summer. This is something I'm in small towns around the United States, are local pools that have like splash pads and water slides and things like that. They got that going on here too. You know what else they got going on here? They got a pretty cool And when I say pretty cool prison, sure, if you're locked up there, it sucks. But if you look at it from just that old architecture from like the 1910, 1920, It's just an amazing building. But if you are not a prisoner and you actually wanna there aren't many for sale in town. There's some sprinkled throughout the area outside of town that you But the one that's for sale and it's livable. I think it would be safe to say that if you keep your eye on this town, you'll be able to find That's nice. This is a beautiful little town. This is one of my favorite And they're losing population. In 2010, they had 5,253 residents. In 2020, the population So they lost 54 people. That's not terrible, but still. (electricity buzzing) Number two, Jacksonville, Oregon. That's right, Florida, we we don't need yours. Sure, ours is about 2% the but we got one. Jacksonville is in Southern Oregon, about a 15 minute drive from You can still see a lot of the Old West, you know, gold rush-type architecture. Those buildings still stand here. This is a beautiful small town. Jacksonville is growing. Not a lot, but it's growing. Back in 2010, they had 2,785 residents. And in 2020, they had 2,898 residents. Like I said, they're gaining This one's a little bit expensive. If you wanna buy a home here, it's gonna cost at least Beautiful, it's kind of in the mountains, forest area, hiking trails. So you're kind of paying for that. Their crime rate is about 5% higher than the national average. But they have jobs here, And they got great schools Your internet choices here are decent. You got Spectrum cable and All right, before we get to number one, don't forget we have another There is a link down below. We would love it if you All right, on to number one. (electricity buzzing) And number one, Worland, Wyoming. Yes, Wyoming. They have some great places to live, especially if you're I could have done this whole They have great places. And yeah, maybe we will. Worland is a great family town that's about two and a If you wanna go to Casper, Sheridan, two and a half hours, Billings, Montana, two and a half hours, FarmersOnly hook up, two and a half hours and a bunch of self-esteem. Worland sits on the Bighorn River, and is a great place to low cost living, good and a crime rate so low, would probably think you're lying if you told her what it was. The crime rate is actually 97% lower than the national average. That is outstanding, Worland. I was watching one of the for the place. And one thing stuck out. One of the local guys, he said, Worland's the type of place, how your day's going, That says a lot for a town. If you're looking to they start off as low as $99,000. But just to get a normal house, it'll go from 99,000 to maybe Anything above that, it's and it's gonna come with some Right now, it looks like to build some homes or something, but they have a whole thing laid out where you could buy plots and have 'em build your house on it. In Worland, you can get one which they say that they so basically, 81% of the town. After that, they also have which is about 39% of the town has that. (upbeat music) All right, that's today's video. Hope you guys enjoyed it. Hope you got some information out of it. Now go out, have a great day. Be nice to each other.