Ciao~ Welcome to Ciao's Kitchen. I am Ciao. No matter what size your mould is, whether it is 8 inches or 6 inches. Or 4 inches. No matter whether your oven is at a constant temperature in American style, Or an oven with independent temperature control on the upper and lower tubes Either one would allow you to nail the Super delicious all-round chiffon cake Then let's begin. Sigh, the most difficult part is always at the beginning: Separating eggs! Today, I have to make two chiffon cakes. So I need a total of 9 eggs. Take it slow and everything will be fine. Use chilled egg whites makes the whipped egg whites more stable So if possible, You can put it in the fridge first. Today's shared chiffon cake recipe. It's my opinion that it's very suitable for beginners. An easily successful way I have tried various oven temperatures for you. Sift the low-gluten flour first. Heat the liquid oil to around 70-80degC. The simplest method is to microwave for 40 seconds. It's about this temperature. Don't get too hot. Because there was no intention to cook the flour. Pour the flour into the mixture and stir well. Then add the milk. Once mixed, it will look like a thick paste. Add the egg yolks in separate portions. The final completed state should be shining with a golden glow At the same time, it looks sparse and scattered. The egg yolk batter is now complete. Before beating the egg whites, be sure to preheat the oven. First, test with an American-style oven. The oven rack usually has 5 layers. Where you place the tray is the key to the success of the cake. Place the baking tray on the second rack. Preheat together at 160 degrees Celsius. Preheat for at least 10 minutes. Now beat the egg whites. Success or failure of chiffon cake Half of it depends on the whipping of the egg whites. To beat steadily and firmly enough. At the same time, pay attention to the formation of the air bubbles. Otherwise, you also get coarse air holes in your cake. First, use medium-high speed to beat the egg whites until they are fluffy, full of bubbles, but not a watery texture. Stop the machine and add lemon juice or white vinegar. I prefer lemon juice. The taste is fresher. Or it could be tata powder. These are all materials that can stabilize the egg whites Add a small amount of sugar. Approximately 1/4 to 1/3 of the total amount. Continue the beating As for this Yamazaki blender, you can use speed level 7 Don't go too fast. Otherwise the air bubbles would be too big. Until the surface turned white and built a bit of line. Add the remaining half of the sugar. When the lines of whipped egg whites become more prominent Pour in the remaining sugar. Chiffon cake does not require the egg whites to be beaten too stiff. What we pursue is radiance. and it looks moist Then pull it up and the tips of the eggs slightly curve when lifting the whisk (This state is about 8 out of 10 towards a stiff peak.) Adding corn flour can help to lock in excess moisture. But the timing of the addition should be the last. Just add it after the egg whites are whipped. Take one minute at the slowest speed This step Helps to make the bubbles inside the whipped whites smaller and finer. Whipped egg whites are ready Add a small amount to the egg yolk batter. Flip from the bottom upwards and mix evenly. Add them back to the whipped egg whites. Mix gently and quickly until the colour is even. It should be completed within approximately 1 minute. Reminder: Bottom center of whites is the most difficult place to mix or to be stirred. So in the end, you can check it. Pour the chiffon cake batter into the cake mould. 6-inch and 8-inch (two sizes) Let me ramble on for a bit. The batter for chiffon cake. Because it has to grow upwards along the mould. Therefore, we cannot use a non-stick coating. We need to use an aluminium mould. The link to the mould I bought is at the bottom. For your reference divide into two portions Weight of batter 6 inches is approximately 320 grams. If it's 8 inches, it would be 640 grams. Smooth the surface of the cake with a scraper. Shake a few more times. Shake the bubbles out. Finally, use a bamboo skewer to evenly draw lines on the surface. Avoid building air holes Chiffon cake can be made quickly. If you are skilled, it will probably take you about 10 minutes to finish. Put it in the oven as soon as possible. In order to make the surface of the cake form a crust faster. I intentionally placed it on the upper layer. I baked a lot of chiffon cakes. I found that the ideal temperature is around 150degC inside the oven. So this time, I deliberately placed a thermometer. Especially the initial preheating should be sufficient. Preheat the oven firmly to 150degC before putting it in. It will be safer. The chiffon cake will definitely crack. So you want to make it for cake layers If the surface is cut off Just let it run wild and break apart. No need to cut the line. The advantage of cutting the line on the surface is The final appearance will be more beautiful. Bake the 6-inch cake for 14-15 minutes. You can cut it off on the surface. You can cut it into 4 or 6, all up to you. If it has already formed a crust, it will be very easy to cut lines If you feel very clingy Then if the knife seems to drag. it means you have not baked it enough Put it in the oven and bake for a few more minutes before cutting it If it's 8 inches, bake for 19-20 minutes. After cutting the lines, you can move the baking tray to the middle layer and continue baking. If it's a 6-inch cake, bake for another 30 minutes. If it's 8 inches, bake for another 45 minutes. The smaller one can come out first, it's 6 inches~ It will take a little more time for the large (8-inch) one. How can you tell it is being well-cooked? When you see the chiffon cake grow to its highest point, and then slightly decrease It just means that it's fully cooked. There is no such rustling sound when you touch it. Indicates (surface) moisture has been dried out. This is how to indicate it can be taken out. Like me. Without an inverted cooling rack Take two bowls or cups of the same height. Holding both sides of the mould Let the inverted cake cool completely. Wow~ Look at you. I rarely bake 8-inch cakes. Because there are only two people in our family. You see, my 8-inch cake looks so spectacular! Added this sharp cutting lines Then, it looks like a crown. Okay, then hurry up now. invert it Shake it once Next, we will conduct an experiment on an oven with the independent control of upper/lower temperature. Stay and watch until the end. Look at the results of these two baking methods on the cake. What's different? Quite unexpected. Wait until the cake is completely cooled. We can then remove the mould. 6 inches 8 inches 8 inches is very beautiful. Prepare a sharp knife. Wow, very pretty. And then? The bottom part of the edge. You can use your hand to press it. If you like the side of the cake. It's the original cake colour. You can gently flick it again. But I think its color is already very beautiful. Good Demolding completed very successful American oven experiment is done! Ovens with independent control of the upper and lower heating (Independent control) usually have 5 layers. Place on the second to last layer. Preheat the baking tray together. The temperature setting is upper tube 190degC. lower tube is around 100~110degC This setting is for achieving an average. The temperature on the baking tray is also exactly 150degC at the end. the same way Remember to preheat the oven first. then beat the egg whites. Give the oven enough time to preheat. The benefits setting a high upper heat is The formation of a crust will be faster. If it is 6 inches, bake for 10-12 minutes. You can take it out and cut lines Bake for another 25 minutes. If it's 8 inches... Bake for 14-15 minutes. Finally, you take a look at its surface. If there is sufficient coloring Cover the surface with kitchen foil. It is recommended not to lower the upper heat Because if the temperature drops below 150degC midway. means that it needs to be baked for a longer time. Overall, in terms of time Bake for approximately 35 minutes at 6 inches. Bake for 45 minutes if using an 8-inch mould. Today's recipe is an all-around chiffon cake. Because some recipes have a lot of moisture. Need to bake for a longer time. Some are not strong enough to support. Only suitable for eating alone. Not suitable for use as cake layers. So what about this recipe? I think it balances both taste and it's very simple and all-rounded. Eating alone; it is moist and soft. It can also be used as a layer in a cake. Next week's video We can use it to make a cream cake. Today I have showcased two ways to bake a chiffon cake No matter if you're using a constant temperature oven at home. Or using an oven with the independent control of the upper/lower heating You can succeed in baking this chiffon. I spent a total of 24 eggs today. There was one time when I accidentally failed it. Just in a sec I will be sharing with you These two methods of baking chiffon cakes. What is different? it is quite interesting. In terms of appearance This one is baked with an independent control oven, and this one is baked by a constant temperature oven You can see it. Is this (independent control) a little more fluffy? So it does look a little more fluffy. And then what else? Overall baking time This one (independent) took about 45 minutes. Then this (constant) eight-inch one... It took a total of about 65 minutes. The result is that this one (independent) Just by touching, you can tell that there is more moisture. You can feel the elasticity and moisture of his skin. What about the one using constant temperature? Just slightly drier. So this is the subtle comparison between the two of them. Overall, it's still very delicious. Then the texture of the chiffon cake is very light and soft. Just now, I said there was a failed one. The reason for that failure is The oven's temperature is not high enough. And I took it out from the oven too soon Resulting in it being under-baked. When the cake is inverted, it breaks... The whole thing fell down. haha what a disaster This is baked in a constant temperature oven. It's also very moist. This is baked in an independent control oven. Mmm, it tastes really good. The cake is so soft and fluffy. moist moist Feel free to leave a message for me if you have any questions. I am Ciao, We'll see you next time. Ciao~