(narrator) The Bermuda Triangle, It's something which even in this world Ships disappear without trace. There's a shipwreck there, and there, Airplanes mysteriously go missing. (man over radio) Mayday, Mayday. (narrator) Stories of sea monsters When I entered the tunnel The Bermuda Triangle. The great myths of mankind. Mysteries passed on Inexplicable events, places shrouded in legend, even scientists are fascinated. Is there any truth Researchers across the globe the greatest mysteries of our time. (mysterious melody) Bruce Gernon contributed a lot To this day he cannot explain what happened to the US pilot On December 4, 1970, my father and I were We were leaving in the morning to return Bruce, who was 29 at the time, (engine starts) Perfect visibility. No wind. The two men don't have (Gernon) When I lifted off, I looked at actually struck 12 In his Beechcraft Bonanza A36, the largest archipelago in the Bahamas, where he is headed northwest The flight is supposed to take 80 minutes. (Gernon) I reached the shoreline And I could see that the storms weren't so that looked good. A sense of deception. Then we noticed this strange cloud (man over radio) It was about a mile long, half mile wide, Clouds like this are extremely Bruce pulls back So, we went ahead and climbed up over it. 150 meters above the clouds, they lull I didn't realize that this small, lenticular-shaped cloud had expanded tremendously I kept climbing. I'm at, say, 5,000. I'm inside the cloud And I get maybe 200 feet above it and then the airplane wasn't climbing Bruce climbs higher to escape When we got to 10,000 feet, that's about and my dad said to me, &quot;We better turn around With over 600 flight hours under his belt, Bruce had never experienced (Gernon) Visibility inside We thought maybe we could keep going The deeper we went, and it almost got My dad was the expert navigator, -(Dad) Something's up. -(Dad) I don't know where we are. Then I noticed the magnetic compass What happened to Bruce Gernon that day? What forces are at play The Bermuda Triangle myth is special which even in this world of science cannot be explained It's is not the first report of this kind. Charles Lindbergh, experienced something similar. On February 13, 1928, from Havana, Cuba, In his logbook, Lindbergh notes: &quot;Both compasses &quot;The liquid compass card &quot;Could recognize no stars &quot;Liquid compass card kept rotating &quot;reached the Florida coast.&quot; So we know the compass He wasn't able and when he finally found out near Bahama Island. It's the same mysterious phenomenon The waters between Florida, Puerto Rico, have been shrouded In 1492, Christopher Columbus was with a surface of 1.3 million He reports of strange natural occurrences, Christopher Columbus With our understanding of science, perhaps bioluminescence from fish. But Columbus didn't have that knowledge. To him, it certainly was a mystery. In the following centuries, often laden with gold, go missing. In the 19th century, the number of reports Later, these reports Sailors call the region the Devil's It was not until that the waters north of the Caribbean, between Miami, Puerto Rico, were famously dubbed the Bermuda Triangle. Over the last 100 years, are said to have vanished here The exact numbers are a matter of debate. The Bermuda Triangle because of the scale of A thousand lives have vanished and many questions remain unanswered. The Bermuda Islands. This is where the myth begins. Philippe Rouja knows The archaeologist is in charge of historic shipwreck sites (Rouja) We think but a shipwreck is a tragedy. Some of which we know And there are still many more to discover. Finding shipwrecks, mapping sites, For over 16 years, Philippe Rouja (Rouja) Every shipwreck is a mystery. For all the ones we know about in Bermuda, Along busy sea routes, it's not uncommon Oftentimes dozens of wrecks But there's no place in the world with as many shipwrecks per Experts know of more than but believe there could be more than 300. You can see There's a shipwreck there. There's another one there. Today, Philippe Rouja and his team You never really get And when you dive on a day like this, when the water is clear and calm, About eight kilometers off the coast, His research helps scientists into the causes of the naval accidents. Ten meters down: the Montana, The ship carried weapons (Rouja) There is That speaks to something Directly nearby are the remains transporting cement bags. Today, they serve as an artificial reef, (Rouja) If there is a mystery, it's why The large coral reef provides a very natural explanation. It's easy to make out from Since the 17th century, a busy trade route During this time, seafarers or used it as a stop-over A dangerous waterway. (Rouja) What makes Bermuda's reef They come up to the surface, but on a day By the time you see it, Hundreds of ships were likely doomed But this doesn't explain why there are (Rouja) The main question The mystery here is solved. But there are many others where we don't. The USS Cyclops March 3, 1918. It's the last time in the harbor The collier is carrying to be used in munition manufactories More than In the evening hours, the Cyclops weighs She will never reach her port To this day, there is still no trace of what was once No radio messages. No distress signals. No signs of life. The USS Cyclops became important, because she was such a big ship Because of this Over 100 years later, is still intrigued by the disaster, I remember when I was a young boy my father used to tell me about his uncle who was lost So I began to get I started peeling back and started finding a lot more What happened to the USS Cyclops? Construction plans, Marvin Barrash collects Following the war, listing all the ships that were lost. The Cyclops was the only ship was listed as &quot;mysteriously disappeared.&quot; In their official report, &quot;There has been no more baffling mystery than the disappearance of the USS Cyclops. It seems unlikely that the ship The disappearance of How can a ship this massive Part of the fame to do with the event There was a great deal of fear over what the Germans The Cyclops was not in waters but perhaps the Germans There's fear associated with the war Suddenly, everyone starts talking Rumors linked German saboteurs, and even giant sea monsters Marvin Barrash is convinced for the fate of the Cyclops. The main business Tons of this coal. On the final voyage the business Lifting the two side by side, this is like a feather, this is business. 10,000 tons of manganese ore in the hold and the freight report reveals they had The ship was well documented You have a lot of cargo on board that nobody had experience with. And was it loaded correctly? Did the people that loaded the cargo It's just like a formula for a disaster. The ship's structural engineering Marvin Barrash has discovered (Barrash) The USS Cyclops had two engines, The starboard engine broke. This is probably a significant factor Not having the power maybe to fight off (thunderclap) During hurricane season, to major weather changes, dangerous There is this US Weather Bureau chart that there is a large weather system that could have indeed traveled into the area So, weather was probably But if the Cyclops were in distress, And why has no wreckage been found? I suspect a rogue wave. The type of thing Without warning, no time to prepare. And I suspect likely at night. Could one single, huge wave For centuries, sailors spoke coming out of nowhere, For a long time, as being nothing But today's scientists Waves up to 30 meters high, known to Big fish and big wave myths have been told Scientists have long wanted to dismiss that are talked about at fishing ports. But recent science has confirmed The Coastal Research Center Here, scientists take a closer look at from inside a wave channel, (in German) (dubbed in English) I wanted to see when placing the boat in the water. Can one single wave sink or even a modern container ship? When you make short waves, plunge into the trough of the wave. Stefan hopes an experiment (in German) (dubbed in English) Our wave machine like single waves to simulate tsunamis, or rogue waves, as in this case. Monster waves develop when several swells Long waves travel faster As the wave heights combine, Rogue waves can occur very suddenly. This means they can basically form And they vanish Using a model ship, the researchers The team simulates rough sea conditions, While the waves cause the ship to bob The waves were 40cm high. In nature, this would equal That's quite a storm. Now, they will conduct Monster waves are defined and extremely short at the same time. Matthias, you can start the wave now. OK, wave coming up. Within seconds, By the time the ship's crew have spotted What we could see here was how the ship first got sucked into that deep trough and then it got pushed up... after essentially being capsized The crew had no chance If this had happened in real life, there probably Did the USS Cyclops fall victim The sunken ship falls into oblivion. But in 1941, during World War II, the sister ships of the USS Cyclops, Both were carrying ore. Wild speculations are spreading. Experts disagree on what One thing is certain: The freighters' design made them for the crew at rough sea anywhere, Just four years later, yet another tragedy draws An entire squadron disappears, Around noon on December 5, 1945... five US torpedo bombers The weather is good. It's a routine training flight. Targeted bombing and navigating Halfway into it, the flight leader (radio crackles) The pilots lose orientation. Soon after, their radio transmissions end. (radio crackles drown out voices) To this day, all 14 crew members Flight 19 became so famous, because it wasn't just one plane or ship, it was five planes. It was an entire squadron Sylvia Wrigley, pilot and author, investigates Back in the 1940s, navigating a plane was We can see all the instruments here You got the compass up top. You've then got the directional indicator, You've got a clock there You can see so you are using and the speed and you multiply them to get the distance. and that's how you work out your location. Berlin. Sylvia Wrigley sets out to using a flight simulator. Foxtrot Tango 28 departing. We are now departing from Fort Lauderdale, We'll just take-off and start climbing. Flaps up. Now we are heading Because we're in an Airbus A320, I'm able to set the power and the autopilot on and the autopilot If you were in a 1940s plane, You are flying by dead reckoning. Wrigley turns off to simulate the squadron's There's all these alarms going off OK, the pilots of the flight or the different gadgets So this is similar but they were probably Flight 19 got in trouble and then the weather deteriorated, too. Wrigley simulates the situation. The wind is worsening, so a magnetic It's not easy to use. Even with that still working, it would be hard to know whether If I'm worried my compass At this point, The brewing storm makes it impossible to know where they're going. The sun is setting, but because of this weather it's difficult and it's just impossible The machines have been up for four hours. They're running out of fuel. Sylvia Wrigley ends up -(beeping) All I can do is try to come down gently, but there are high waves There's no way I'll land on this water. I crashed. That was so realistic, it was frightening. I am so relieved I never want to have to go This was such a high stress situation, using every bit of my mental power How much worse, but the life of 14 people are dependent on Navy flying boats try After searching for hours, they give up. One of the machines calls Moments later, The 14 young men of Flight 19 Sylvia Wrigley has a theory A fateful decision by flight leader to fly further and further out to sea. (Wrigley) So, we've got We have exactly what Foxtrot Tango 28 said whilst in the air He is continuously modifying to head towards the east, when the entire time As they run out of fuel, an emergency landing on the water. At rough sea, this is a death sentence. No wreckage from Flight 19 (in German) (dubbed in English) Even today we don't There are explanations for this, and been covered by sand, or they have broken to small pieces that But there are Why did the flight leader And why didn't his compass work? There are only a few true mysteries that Flight 19 is absolutely one of them. I find it amazing that with so many the mystery that started and from which so many that we don't know what happened, And I find that bewildering, The report from the Navy's &quot;The disappearance of Flight 19 of the Bermuda Triangle.&quot; A legend is born. Flight 19 is a powerful part of the myth, partly because it was who mythically become heroes. They are the main characters in this saga. As a consequence, they have huge power. Hollywood capitalizes on the story. Author Charles Berlitz The whole world is captivated taking place in the &quot;sea of doom.&quot; The Bermuda Triangle when American Charles Berlitz Some 20 million copies were sold. He identified which happened in the Bermuda Triangle. The problem was, however, that a lot And indeed, many of Statistics show there are as in any other But the myth takes on a life of its own. Soon, rumors spread, saying aliens or the crystal energy are responsible for Many people don't want to believe because this means that it's a world And so we project our desire onto a desire for there to be If this strange stuff can't happen there, But the compass anomalies experienced They're real. But what causes these interferences? For decades, scientists were Today, they've found at the bottom of the sea. The Bermuda Islands are that formed more than Witnesses of an apocalyptic moment Nick Hutchings explores this region. If we were standing at this exact spot we would be under This was a big Over millions of years, the volcanic rock and washed into the sea. It probably took 19 million years down to sea level. Most of that Today, a layer of lava sand covers the ocean floor around the islands. Hutchings believes the volcanic floor observed in the Bermuda Triangle. You can see clearly here, this black sand. This is the volcanic remains This is really the only place The rest is washed And in that layer is And magnetite is the most magnetic With the magnetite this is enough to affect a compass. Just this little bit here. And as you can see, it moves. It's not a lot, three or four degrees, but enough You can imagine what Official nautical charts warn seafarers with deviations of up to 14 degrees. Essentially Bermuda is a huge magnet Conventional compasses have been known to suddenly point This can cause ships and planes to go This likely explains many disasters. Yet the myth For some, it's more The Bermuda Triangle myth persists partly what happens in the triangle, so it's fulfilling and that is to explain the inexplicable. Like the experience on their flight from the Bahamas At 3,500 meters altitude, the aircraft is And then I see this horizontal tunnel. I thought it would to escape the inside When I entered the tunnel And then I noticed the lines were slowly and went all the way The navigational instruments Even the compass The plane disappears Miami Radio couldn't find our location, &quot;What do you mean He started cussing the guy, Trying to get out of the tunnel, Bruce When I looked back I watched it collapse right behind us And at the same time, I felt this incredible sensation combined with the feeling of hydroplaning, like skidding forward at zero gravity. The air traffic controller comes back And he says he's got an airplane I look at my watch and I've been I told him, &quot;No, that's not us.&quot; Then my eyes started to focus. I look below and there's Miami Beach Once Gernon reaches Palm Beach he realizes that only 47 minutes I'd made that identical flight It took an hour and 20 minutes. This was an indirect course, and it took only 47 minutes. I didn't understand what had happened, but I realized Bruce Gernon believes he got To this day, there is still no evidence But he's not the only one who believes Gian Quasar has investigated for over 30 years. He was the first to systematically study of the US Transportation Safety Board. This is the entire at the National Transportation when I made a request for them of all aircraft listed Nowadays, the records are The database lists every incident that What's important is to compare cases and data over instead of just one incident I discovered aircraft that had vanished that had eyewitnesses that vanished over Quasar claims he has identified that happened in the Bermuda Triangle. It's not subjective, or flying saucers or the Lochness Monster. These were real aircraft and real ships. They're in the records. People were Like Flight NH3808, a light-sport aircraft and his friend Jose Pagan Santos. One of the most interesting cases of the encounter with a UFO. This one was on June 28, 1980. This was an Ercoupe, owned by the passenger's father. That's the passenger. The aircraft is presumed ditched And the transcript And here it is. Quasar has the radio messages. (man) Mayday, Mayday. We can see a strange object in our course. We are lost, Mayday, Mayday. This is Jose Maldonado Torres as they transposed into mystery. This is the mayday (radio crackles) June 28, 1980. The two men are on in a small sports aircraft when they suddenly see (man on radio) The pilot tries repeatedly to get away (man on radio) Mayday, mayday, You're listening Or rather transpose into mystery. (man on radio) (narrator) It's the last time After that message, Nobody knows what the two men encountered. The ultimate fate of flight NH3808 Time and again, allegedly documenting An amateur video, taken on a cruise ship (man on recording) Two UFOs on the... -(woman on recording) Carnival Sensation. -(woman) Today is October 1. Two UFOs, one of them The left one is moving. Are you watching? (inaudible) There is a helicopter, there is For perspective, to see how low they are. Look at the right one. It disappeared. It's very commonplace Lights floating on the horizon. He mentions that they're pacing the ship. (man on video) Look at the one The one on the left is still here. (woman on video) Oh my God. It's impossible to prove just as it remains unclear But to Quasar, online findings They put this up on YouTube, and so it, er, seems authentic. It's reporting things It's reported that when aircraft approach these, That's the case here. An aircraft is approaching and then the one closest to it zips out. Ufologists like Quasar can now even (man on recording) Echo, six, one... (pilot) Oh golly! (narrator) The US Navy has declassified between UFOs and their fighter jets. (pilot on video) Oh my gosh, dude. Look at it fly. (he laughs) Remarkably, the Pentagon Another sighting that the Pentagon People have tried to explain Theories range from and secret weapon systems. Gian Quasar doesn't have a logical But he doesn't believe Ships and planes do vanish So if you uncover real mystery, because there's a real cause A dark cloud, malfunctioning instruments, and a mysterious time tunnel. Now, Bruce Gernon thinks 50 years ago above the Bermuda Triangle. It took me 30 years of researching this thinking about it every day before I finally came up with the theory: that this fog, and I call it If it attaches to you, you can... become disorientated and it can induce A theory without evidence. But Gernon is convinced It's been tough sometimes But I'm always willing to talk to anybody because I know exactly what happened. So this is an incredible It's going I know it'll be proven in the future. It may be another 50 years or so. The Bermuda Triangle, The Bermuda Triangle doesn't stand out It becomes a place If you're myth is you project that on the Bermuda Triangle. If your myth is aliens or Atlantis, that also will be what you project Whether it's a dark force, paranormal activity, or physical forces, people won't stop trying to solve and the myth is sure to be the subject of wild speculations in the years to come. (narrator) The most prosperous city Suddenly destroyed Atlantis. Atlantis is like an end-of-the-world story Researchers are looking for (dramatic music) I do think that Atlantis existed. Where was this mythical island located? Are there any traces of the Atlanteans? Will Atlantis ever be found? (bubbles) (suspenseful music) The great myths of mankind. Mysteries passed on Inexplicable events, and superhuman heroes. Even scientists are fascinated. Is there any truth Researchers across the globe are working hard to solve (mysterious melody) Greece. The island of Santorini. Some researchers believe this is the former site of Atlantis. Geologist Evi Nomikou first heard about Atlantis But how to tell truth from legend? (Gulls mewing) When I was a child, telling us stories They told us about a brilliant city that was decorated with high buildings and all the people were very rich. And that city was just Santorini is an island Its ring-like structure The crater island Nea Kameni at its heart, the caldera is surrounded The legendary city of Atlantis and two terrestrial rings That's why many believe (atmospheric music) Could Atlantis be buried underneath (suspenseful music) (drumming music) Geologist Evi Nomikou She grew up here. Could the city of Atlantis really be on this volcanic island? Before three thousand six hundred years at this place, with the same geometry, And at the top of this volcano, Was it truly Atlantis? Had it been annihilated The Santorini volcano over the past 3,000 years. But the first lead points us (suspenseful music) To Athens. In 360 BC, philosopher Plato describes which had ruled over the entire with a commanding fleet, The capital has a large commercial port. The Atlantean battleships are even said Navigable canals run In the centre there's an acropolis with a The buildings and streets silver and a fiery-toned metal, bearing testimony According to the Greek myths and appropriately for Poseidon, as god of the sea, he was given an island. He then had many children, and he gave the most to his first-born son, Atlas. And in Greek, According to Plato, and home to a rich flora and fauna, But one day, the thriving metropolis (thunder claps) According to Plato, the earthquakes and floods of punishing the Atlanteans (screams of panic) The myth of Atlantis because it's the story which was lost, It's a story of hubris. It's a story in which we think we know so much, Well, it serves as But is Atlantis completely buried? Or can we still find traces Sunken cities are not rare. Baiae, off the Neapolitan coast, Places like this keep the hope alive one day. (scuba breathing) The extent of the volcano's destruction The volcanic sediments reach high A 30-metre layer of pumice So we are the central part For us, it is a geological monument. And you can admire the soil, the landscape before So you need to imagine that (dramatic music) According to Plato, the Atlanteans but also arrogant, The gods punish them We can see the thin layer Only 10 centimetres or less. We don't know the exact time, but lots of earthquakes (sound of explosion) Then the main eruption started, and the first phase is the Plinian column, with ash up to 39 kilometres in the air. (roaring sound) Commercial aircraft only fly The ash column that Santorini volcano was 39 km high. Plato could have been inspired by all sorts of natural events. One of them might have been It was a cataclysmic event and we know from Greece to Egypt. (dramatic music) (cries of distress) The volcano buries the entire island, Temples, roads and ships are torn up, destroyed and swallowed by the lava. (cries of panic) The eruption was extremely powerful. This is because the mass of rocks The crater just became clogged (sound of explosion) In 1980, Mount St. Helens The volcano erupted (deep rumbling) Was Atlantis wiped out One thing we know for sure has impressed generations worldwide. (bubbling sound) The myth of Atlantis enthrals many. Pondering about what the legendary empire has led to countless books, Many people but also to experience the superhuman (piano music) In Germany, since as early as the 1920s. In Bremen, an entire new building The &quot;Atlantis House&quot; meant to bring light into as the descendants of Atlantis. On its facade: the tree of life, a prominent feature in Nordic mythology. The modern use of forms and the &quot;sky room&quot; into the myth of Atlantis. (German dubbed into English) In the 19th century, Spiritists, occultists and psychics believed they could find Atlantis, Later, the Nazis evidently into pursuing anything which also included finding Atlantis. (echoing tone) Atlantis House was built who shared SS chief in the supremacy of the Nordic race. Himmler invests large sums trying to prove that the Teutons descend He hopes archaeologists will find evidence Their search took them as far as Tibet. Ernst Schafer was the head He believed the survivors of Atlantis He left empty-handed. The belief in Atlantis of another city shrouded in legend. For centuries, Troy was thought to be a myth described In 1870, Heinrich Schliemann finds the The myth becomes a reality. Can Atlantis be found too? We have so many stories about Atlantis. If you were the archaeologist like the discovery of Troy, US researcher Richard Freund is convinced He's an expert and firmly believes He is basing his search on descriptions But Richard Freund He's got his eyes set on southern Spain, not far from the Straits of Gibraltar. (rhythmic music) He believes the remains of Atlantis of the Donana National Park. (car engine starting) (rhythmic music) We are at ground zero for Atlantis. Freund has a theory. He believes the stretches of land were once a thriving island state. Until Atlantis was destroyed by a devastating tsunami. Plato says in one fateful night, the entire city sunk and was located and disappeared. Meaning it's not something that happened He's talking about a cataclysmic, To Freund, it's just a matter of time until he finds the first piece of evidence (breaking waves) And indeed, matches Plato's description Plato says it's located The Pillars of Hercules as being a very specific spot. So it's not located in Africa or India or Asia. It's located we call the Strait of Gibraltar. Donana National Park During the antiquity, the prominent rocks mark the end of the known world. In the antiquity, was an open bay. You had this big, massive, open bay, where ships could come in and ships could go out to the Atlantic and into the Mediterranean. This was the for almost every single Freund believes through what we know today as marshland. If you imagine it it looks just like So this really is the place. You're looking at ground zero the ocean, the dunes Atlantis could be very real, in fact, there could be multiple Atlantises. Plato places it where the Atlantic and typically huge cities that controlled this kind of strait. So in some ways, it's hard to imagine there wouldn't have been Plato claims he received his information from an ancestor as a superior civilisation in weapons technology and metal work. Not far from the national park there's a place that could reveal (suspenseful music) A building, 5,000 years old, (reverberating tone) The unusual monument during construction works in the 1920s. It's a Neolithic tomb site into a fascinating culture. Archaeologist Claudio Lozano about the people who once lived here. (electronic music) The finds from the dolmen In the stone there are Could these maybe be star maps How the weapons were depicted, is even more intriguing. (Spanish dubbed into English) What makes this dolmen special were decorated with pictograms. And here we see they depict weapons. Metal weapons. (reverberating tones) Do these pictures date back to the time when the burial site was built? Or were they added Plato did mention Is the dolmen the Atlantean survivors' The dolmen is proof of a highly functional and progressive settlement dating back more than 5,000 years. Early civilisations Archaeological finds are particularly Water is the source of life. They need water to cook, to farm, It's why water really is And most successful civilisations To find traces of ancient civilisations, you have to know where rivers used to run. (echoing tones) (piano music) Huelva port, early morning. A research catamaran is waiting They want to have a closer look at the sea floor Over thousands of years, Water covers what once was land Is this the location of Plato's Atlantis, the city beyond the Pillars of Hercules? (drumming music) (Spanish dubbed into English) We're now following the coastline towards a stretch of sea across The place we're headed to somewhere between 9,000 and 10,000 BC. 10,000 years ago, the coastline Claudio Lozano hopes his search will help him find former settlements, or ideally the ruins of Atlantis. We've been here a couple of times, but we want to take a closer look And this time, This spot is perpendicular and is exactly where the estuary was. (pulsing electro music) Maritime archaeologist Claudio Lozano and hope to finally come up Their sensitive sonar device picks up even the slightest elevations This also allows them to find river This is where we choose the frequency. (speaks in Spanish) If they find proof it could point to an ancient civilisation. Advanced civilisations like Atlantis (speaks in Spanish) This broad perspective on the sea floor shows us exactly what it looks like, and where there are shapes This case is a perfect example. It's obvious that Now it's covered by ocean floor. but the sonar allows us to Examining these riverbeds is key. Getting closer to the riverbeds means we're getting closer (speaks in Spanish) (device beeps) (rhythmic music) The site they're looking for is almost two kilometres off the coast. Does the sea floor Diving is the only way to find out. They're looking for an ancient riverbed, hoping to maybe even find (dramatic music) (hissing air) (diver splashes) The researchers look for geological clues. Nature leaves its marks, (beeping sound) (underwater bubbling) The divers find pebbles on the ocean floor (strings music) Showing that this floor A success for Claudio Lozano and his team. They've found the estuary and therefore maybe also a first glimpse But they're still a long way that Atlantis existed in southern Spain. The searchers won't give up. (pulsing music) Richard Freund's hypothesis that Atlantis remains one of several possibilities. Atlantis has become a repository for all these lost lands that or some ancient, And there are very real cities to coastlines It's possible that Atlantis is and some mythical notion Santorini, an island in the Aegean Sea, has been of interest to those Over 3,600 years ago, a devastating eruption shook the island. Nea Kameni To geologist Evi Nomikou, that sealed the fate of an event that left its traces on history. Nea Kameni has been created due to the fact that it has many different volcanic centres that give lava. (explosion) We don't know of any other eruption than the one in the 16th century BC. It affected all civilisations and even destroyed some 200 km away. Some believe that Atlantis Two great civilisations existed around the Cycladic and the Minoan cultures. They were related to each other and they shared some similarities as described by Plato. So there's every chance that they were The volcanic eruption on Santorini wiping out all inhabited coastal regions The northern hemisphere The Minoan empire on Crete An actual natural catastrophe. Is this the origin Evi Nomikou is looking for traces of a She's heading Together with Joannis Bitis, an architect, Evi visits the remains of a settlement once covered by volcanic ash. These cultural artefacts and weren't discovered until 1967. Archaeologists are staggered buildings, several stories high, with sophisticated details. This level of advancement according to Plato. The special thing is that a very good preservation and of the architecture The ash that covered all the entire city helped all the materials until our times. The architectural style in Akrotiri Large windows Toilets inside buildings. These must have been the homes The lavatory is quite... because usually we found these kind of... places outside of the houses. Instead, here we have already, the mentality of placing the lavatory They also find beautiful murals showing women with precious jewels. What happened to these people? Were the residents of Akrotiri By the time the eruption hits the city, Here we can see a building, that has been covered completely So just in front of us, at the bottom, you can distinguish Up to now we didn't find any bodies, that the people escaped before the last phase, before the main (blasting sound) No dead bodies and no signs of survivors. Just impressive evidence The finds are preserved in the island's capital Fira. Kostas Sakavaras might be the greatest and their history. So this is the plaster cast It shows us the sophistication level because it's a piece that very much (dramatic drumming) The wood of the table All that remains is a detailed cast. Thousands of objects tell the story of an incredibly rich city (Kostas) This is foreign pottery -(Evi) Okay. Greek mainland. We have also islands, -Okay. -Dodecanese region. And definitely Crete, The collection even contains objects Little boxes for perfumes, It tells us that that had covered and had an appetite also exotic stuff So it seems to be that the place was the centre of that civilisation. So it seems to be a commercial centre A fresco that was well preserved The image has scientists' heads turning. Does it depict Atlantis? Many details match: a large fleet, the capital surrounded by water Red rocks can be seen Are they leading us to Atlantis? All these rocks are very old rocks, have not been covered You can see that the red And from the frescoes, you can imagine that the port, a separate port, (suspenseful music) Astonishing parallels. Did the heart of the story of Atlantis A port from which residents escaped I do think that Atlantis existed. Yes, it's a very good story. do have an element of truth But one thing doesn't add up According to Plato, Atlantis is located beyond the Pillars of Hercules, Researchers and explorers are looking for In the Bahamas, in Brazil, in the North Sea, or on Sri Lanka. Central America The founding myth of the Aztecs It refers to a mythical place And it's not just the name that bears Aztlan is also said In the 14th century, the Aztecs build their huge capital, Tenochtitlan, Are they reminiscing about But how would Greek philosopher Plato from Central America One of the reasons why Atlantis has to do with the way it may or may not If it does play a role, seafaring culture that's extended across The other thing about Atlantis before the flood, just like Eden. So it's kind of this mythic memory Michael Oettel thinks he knows On his YouTube channel, he spends his time Oettel believes Atlantis in a place that's now (German dubbed into English) Hello and Today, we're looking into and whether this city really existed. Or is it just a legend? Today we're going to get to It's been investigated many times, was based in Santorini, But today we want to talk about during the Gemini 4 mission. It can only really be seen from space and is located in western Africa. It is called the &quot;Eye of the Sahara&quot;, There's a rock formation in Mauritania, that really looks like an eye. Or like the island city of Atlantis? In the beginning, experts believed But nothing points to an impact. Michael Oettel sees In his works, Plato writes that and two rings of land, The central island, separated by rings of water. So in total there are three aquatic rings Of course, we're still left wondering whether this is a natural structure, An island city without any water? But this area wasn't always a desert. In the last ice age, there were rivers Oettel shows us footage from If you're standing inside the rings, Only once you're far away are you able to imagine An important discovery: a well. To this day, caravans take a break to fill up on their water supply. Could a well like this also have been And how is it possible points to the home Michael Oettel subscribes to the theory that the sea level and only dropped after the last ice age. Simulating the sea level over time, If you raise the sea level to 425 metres, you can see clearly that this structure, has a natural opening in the south, Atlantis in the Sahara? The ring-shaped mountains They were not man-made. There are a lot of supernatural theories Atlantis serves onto which we can project of fallen civilizations, Atlantis fuels people's imagination If someone were to find Plato's city, they would be famous around the world. Dieter Bremer is captivated If you read Plato's he says, (German dubbed into English) Well, I would look (speaks in German) One often wonders, It reminds me of the titan Atlas So following this logic, the Atlantean Sea could also be considered (speaks in German) The former chemical engineer from the perspective of technology. He believes that the Atlanteans were far more progressive Literally supernatural. (German dubbed into English) Based on my findings, Atlantis revolving around itself. This means a mother ship, a huge space station (speaks in German) And these people visited Earth, astronauts that were that they must have seemed like gods (speaks in German) (orchestra plays Beethoven Symphony No. 9) Atlantis... (orchestra plays Beethoven Symphony No. 9) Bremer's hypothesis builds on the idea which was made famous According to this theory, who gave knowledge namely in the form of crystal energy. (mysterious tones) Some believe that this also explains (mysterious tones) (German dubbed into English) The theory involving ancient astronauts This is where Atlantis fits in. These people claim that Atlantis, has been created by extraterrestrials, as they simply cannot fathom were able to create such advanced things. (mysterious tones) Dieter Bremer thinks he's found evidence corroborating his Are they depicting space stations? (German dubbed into English) I can see elements of Atlantis or systems consisting You can find similar traditions Atlantis in space? We likely won't find A critical interpretation Is the author even trying He's writing about a war Plato creates Atlantis as the arrogant, overconfident monarchy of his ideal state, It's an allegory which contrasts the arrogance and with the ideal nation-state, In a way, Plato's asking us to think about (dramatic music) That means Atlantis is only an allegory used to illustrate the victory (German dubbed into English) If the battles between there would be more testimonies because unlike Troy and Delphi, Atlantis (blasting sound) Could it be A tale from ancient Greece? Many researchers think Plato's descriptions are too realistic Richard Freund believes in the existence of an ancient superpower He says a tsunami in Donana National Park put an end According to his theory, A picture taken from space Satellite images Do they point to Atlantis? Plato describes a harbour city even providing exact measurements. Do they match the structures Is the rectangular shape in the centre the (pulsing music) A local inspection in the At the very highest point, Richard Freund describes how became his mission in life. Now what's interesting about is that it all started with this... space photography, from the 1980s. You could see rectangles, And all these don't occur in nature. (dramatic music) We need evidence of massive building inside the park. Then together with together with the photography, maybe we could say Excavations started in the middle of Today the area is protected. New excavations... impossible. (engine turns off) (suspenseful music) The site looks just as Richard Freund A rock is sticking out of the ground. Or is it a piece of masonry, maybe dating back to the Bronze Age? It would be the first real Richard Freund can use Will years of work finally pay off? (rhythmic music) We're going to measure this this edge. Then I want to measure this edge. This is a right angle. This is something that was man-made. Five metres long. Almost a perfect right angle. Freund hopes to have found the outer walls of a large building. So we have one clear section of the wall. What's very specific about this is this stone looks like it's been cut. It reflects human activity Right angles only appear (dramatic music) A stone that looks like a wall. A single, but valuable piece of evidence? Freund wants to believe it. So you can see the same kinds of shells that we saw out on the beach. And they're embedded in this marl which is not indigenous to this area. So this was all brought in part of a massive rock, that, with the marl on top, that was embedded in the earth right here. Atlantis, buried beneath To Freund this is more than a theory. This is the last piece of the puzzle. You look at that and you say to yourself, Well, sometimes And this is a massive wall that is embedded in the sand. It's unlike anything else. there should be no major stone like that in this entire area, and yet it's there. Spain or Santorini? Evi Nomikou is able to provide on the island during antiquity. And that a volcanic explosion Using a glove, she demonstrates So imagine that this is It's full of magma So what we are going to do, disappeared. Hundreds of metres underneath the surface, the pressure inside the magma chamber So this is Atlantis, just at the top of the Pre-Kameni island. (dramatic music) The eruption empties the chamber. It collapses There's a huge caldera. under the very many layers of sediments. Is the ancient city on Santorini The evidence is still too scant. (rhythmic music) Evi Nomikou want to take a closer look The volcano is largely (sound of swells) (rhythmic music) So this is a small robot. This is a small ROV. We call it Jason. And we will explore the sea floor very close to Nea Kameni that is cooling down on the sea floor. Eight engines and three cameras. You cannot... I'm doing it slowly, slowly. The robot takes over for the divers and provides high-resolution images. (indistinct radio chatter) Jason passes by lava The sea floor has been shaped (indistinct comments) (strings music) And at last! -A discovery. (Evi) Okay. -Be extra-careful. Okay, show me. Wow! What are these? -It feels like steps. (Evi) But can you move towards this side? Underwater stairs? Could they belong to a former harbour? To Evi Nomikou, these images are another But they will need to conduct more dives to find out whether or a product of nature. I believe that there was a magic city and that city But we need to search more And when we find not something that we will find on land, then I will be completely sure (dramatic music) Was Plato describing a real city and an actual catastrophe after all? Is there at least some truth to his story? If there is, there must be traces. No culture, no civilisation could ever be totally destroyed. So we question Are the descendants of the Atlanteans Will we ever find real proof? One thing is certain. So advanced is modern historical research that if it did exist, So we just need Or does it turn out A message from Plato warning us We are still fascinated because it's about the destruction Today we think but what Atlantis shows us It's a terrifying story, An allegory for a downfall... or an echo of a real civilisation? Atlantis remains an unsolved mystery. (Narrator) And one of them has long been forgotten. His tomb holds countless secrets: The discovery of Tutankhamun's tomb unleashed the curse. After the tomb was opened, or indirectly involved die. Has a deadly curse What is behind these mysterious deaths? We give curses such great power Are all these incidents linked to something Does the mummy provide any clues? (German dubbed in English) Howard Carter cut off its entire head, damaging it in the process. The curse of the pharaoh. (dramatic music) The great myths of mankind. Mysteries passed on Inexplicable events, and superhuman heroes. Even scientists are fascinated. Is there any truth Researchers across the globe to solve the greatest mysteries Egypt. The oldest advanced civilization Superpower of the ancient world. Powerful pharaohs ruled the country Feared by their enemies by their loyal subjects. All trying to expand their power while also solidifying their legacy for future generations. The key to making their mark on history: unique structures like temples, Structures made shrouded in mystery to this very day. Thebes, in southern Egypt. Unlike the famous pyramids, the tombs in The idea is to make it harder Ali Reda is Inspector of Antiquities He knows everything (Arabic dubbed in English) What makes the Valley of the Kings special Everything the ancient Egyptians was able to stay intact In 1922, the valley is the scene Archaeologist Howard Carter He wants to find treasures, gold, Ten years on, no longer believes and signals his desire Carter convinces him The explorer sets off on his last dig And he's lucky. One of his workers comes across On November 4th, 1922, &quot;At last have made wonderful discovery A magnificent tomb with seals intact. Recovered same for your arrival. Stop. Carter.&quot; Two weeks later, Lord Carnarvon travels It would be his last journey. On this occasion, the men find Other tombs were actually built over the and the rubble from that construction fell which means that his grave was until Carter came along and created Howard Carter breaks open the first door The men have to clear the way The find was such a big sensation and that was very rare indeed. Most Egyptian graves But this one was absolutely perfect and it created a wave of interest The news about the untouched tomb makes international headlines. Egyptomania swept the globe in the 1920s. The nobility liked to collect Egyptian where they would wear extravagant tunics And at the end of the party (piano music) Since the beginning of the 19th century, and sometimes ground for The Egyptian theme is picked up Howard Carter's spectacular find Films often feature tombs, living mummies, In the Valley of the Kings, Carter uncovers hieroglyphs revealing the name of the deceased: Pharaoh Tutankhamun. Up until then, he was The objects Lord Carnarvon and exceed all expectations. Treasures, gold, all piled on top of each other Pots full of food, Carnarvon and Carter are looking at one But soon, With every piece they take the ire of the golden king seems to grow. A first casualty sends shockwaves Lord Carnarvon, the financier, dies. His son, the 6th Earl of Carnarvon, recalls the strange events The lights went out in the hotel. I didn't know they'd gone out in point of fact. Every light went out. (mysterious tones) Was the lord sentenced to death because Some people thought he died of the curse. Well, I can tell you a great deal about He happened to be bitten by a mosquito, He cut the pimple off his face or in the morning when he shaved, and he said at lunch, &quot;I feel awful.&quot; Supposedly, his dog Susie dropped dead After the death of Lord Carnarvon, the story of the pharaoh's curse also because of various other bizarre the death of his dog and also But at the time power cuts really were and it did have nothing to do Yet another sensation First the discovery of the tomb and now the deadly curse of the pharaoh. The curse gave the press a juicy story. which excited not just the journalists, Now if you want a story to be well-known, 17 people die, Among the dead include X-ray expert Lord Carnarvon's half-brother Arthur Mace, Carter's right hand, Lady Almina, Carnarvon's wife, and Prince Ali Fahmy Bey, who claims to be Is the tomb really the cause Ali Reda, enters KV62. That's the official name The treasures have been removed but the original mummy of King Tutankhamun Does the ancient corpse have sinister (Arabic dubbed in English) The discovery of Tutankhamun's tomb The facts surrounding the tomb The young king was very mysterious. He took the throne when he was eight A child really. Who was this mysterious pharaoh? Why do people live in fear of his curse Young Tutankhamun grew up He was the son of Akhenaton, (suspenseful music) When Akhenaton ascended to the throne, and banned the old gods. The people were He and his spouse, were also to be treated like gods. After Akhenaton's death, his young son Tutankhamun succeeded him. Ten years later, he too died Tutankhamun completely disappeared So without finding his tomb, we'd probably still not know This is what makes Carter's excavations His team uncovers almost 6,000 objects a king previously unknown Gold, furniture, everyday objects all helping to expand our knowledge The Egyptians believe that life In fact, that a better life followed. So Egyptians were buried with with drinks, with food, with games, The world is amazed Carter empties the grave. Meanwhile, a growing number of people Is the pharaoh taking revenge (suspenseful music) Excavations are still being carried out Just 200 meters away a Dutch team is examining layers of rock. (pulsating music) Egyptologist Carina van den Hoven She and her team Time and again, Van den Hoven hopes to learn more about The mysterious deaths that occurred following Carter's excavation (Dutch dubbed in English) People sometimes ask me and if those working with these human But I think the man buried here would be quite pleased if he knew Still, the alleged curse of the pharaoh continues to strike fear We give curses such great power They can introduce such uncertainty that we cannot control. But we want to try The idea that someone can actually from beyond the grave is disturbing. Carter is unfazed by the headlines He wants to get a hold of the last and And so he sets out to access knocking down ancient walls in his path. (mysterious tones) At long last, he arrives. He finds himself Carter has reached his goal. The Egyptian Museum in Cairo. Objects of great value have found a new home here, (Arabic dubbed in English) This shrine was located within the three Inside, they found four sarcophagi, just like the Russian Matryoshka dolls, The same principle was applied here. home to those four sarcophagi. and was in the shrine back there. This shrine was inside this one, which was inside that one. And this last shrine is the largest. Attila, king of the Huns, is said to the outer one made of iron, the next Napoleon, that led to the deciphering of the (Arabic dubbed in English) Why four shrines and four coffins? According to ancient Egyptian teachings, Burying the king between four pillars meant his body would contain over which he'd rule from the afterlife. For Howard Carter, the days following are agonizingly long. The wooden shrines need to be disassembled Rumor has it that Carter's actions only Did ancient Egyptians really One trace leads us to Here, thousands of texts bear witness of times long past. Egyptologist Verena Lepper from the time of the pharaohs. Magic played a prominent role in ancient They believed in higher beings, which is why they worshipped nature. Magic and spells were an integral part It was also popular Many of the spells Others, however, were intended (German dubbed in English) This one is about punishing They threw a wax crocodile and the crocodile came to life. It turned into a large, real crocodile that snatched the adulterer There's magic for every sphere of life Professional magicians and priests (mysterious melody) Even graves are cursed. Grave robbers beware. If they continue, (Lepper speaks German) The ancient Egyptians would write spells And then they destroyed them, threw them onto the ground, releasing the spell. Did Howard Carter destroy such a piece essentially pulling the trigger A pottery tablet engraved with the words, &quot;Death shall come on swift wings to him was reportedly found inside the tomb. But it has since disappeared, More than 3,300 years Carter and his crew made their way It was the beginning of Why did they not listen (Arabic dubbed in English) The tomb is surrounded They're said to protect the coffin All treasures have been retrieved and are now in museums Only the massive stone sarcophagus (in Arabic) There was a general warning regarding (in Arabic) All those who get near them (in Arabic)) To the pharaohs, tomb raiders to their eternal life in the afterworld. Is that why they cursed their graves? (suspenseful music) In the tomb of Ramses VI, the warning (Reda speaks Arabic) Decapitated people, That's a warning. Anyone who dares enter will have their head cut off They will have to spend the rest (in Arabic) We know all of the finds were and there's no mention of it However, there's every chance for fear of arousing superstition and also, Carter was rumored So perhaps he made (suspenseful music) An ancient curse For decades, this mystery until one day, disturbing reports events with striking resemblance to series On Friday the 13th April 1973, researchers opened the grave Shortly thereafter, five of them die. Whispers about the &quot;curse of the king&quot; Wieslaw Barabasz was there in Krakow The former microbiology professor, was allowed to assist (Polish dubbed in English) Five people died within two years. That's when the case (in Polish) People suddenly remembered and letting the kings rest in peace. (in Polish) Casimir IV ruled over Poland for 45 years in the 15th century. The economy and It was a golden era. To this day, But that's not why Ten of the workers and A parallel to the curse of the pharaoh? They die of heart attacks, Could these causes that they opened in Krakow? Casimir's burial chamber had been sealed and with equally dangerous consequences. (speaks Polish) We grew the different bacteria And then we saw it: Aspergillus flavus fungus. It turns out it's one of the most (mysterious melody) If the spores of the toxic mycelium secretions and blood cells leaving behind protein deposits. As a result, the oxygen intake capacity This can be life-threatening, especially The researchers in Krakow didn't wear which, unlike the Valley of the Kings, The perfect environment Its spores kill the scientists. But could the highly toxic fungus also be Lord Carnarvon was first to enter the and the first to die. Protective gear like masks or gloves? To make matters worse, Carnarvon Eventually researchers give the all-clear. The Aspergillus mycelium cannot thrive The Krakow lead is a dead end. The curse of the pharaoh The Zurich Institute Professor Ruhli knows mummies He's examined Tutankhamun various times. (German dubbed in English) When Howard Carter and his team and examined the mummy in 1925, his team had little to no Evidently the main focus They didn't handle the mummy the way I'm not judging. It was a different time, a different question, (drumming music) What did Howard Carter do to the mummy (drumming continues) For days, his team was trying to open Inside, they found coffin after coffin after coffin. All tightly placed one in the other, Carter needed to build special tools so they wouldn't destroy Eventually they discovered Howard Carter is overwhelmed and wants to present the golden mask He desperately tries to lift the mummy But due to the resin used to embalm Carter ends up putting the wooden He hopes the resin will soften so he can Howard Carter cut off its entire head, Howard Carter disassembles the mummy He thinks this is the best way Only later does Carter realize (Ruhli) Some of the parts that were severed so the damage is only visible They wanted to make it look like to future generations. Professor Ruhli has not only examined the most famous and The Iceman was found in 1991 by His body has been mummified over thousands and is amazingly well preserved. But once again, some of those involved died within years. The case was soon labeled &quot;Otzi's curse&quot;, and maybe the way the mummy was handled Like Tutankhamun, people touched and The only difference: gold and treasures don't play a role in Otzi's case, researchers are only after the insights To better control these factors the Swiss researcher wants to (indistinct voices) With his colleague Patrick Eppenberger, Prof. Ruhli is currently working on It is crucial that their DNA not be mixed with the mummy's. It can't be touched without gloves. The special thing about this technique is we have the option of using 3D imaging. We obtain an image that isn't like X-ray allowing us to view the object in 3D form. Modern technology could have saved But after more than 3,300 years, and the mummy of the pharaoh (indistinct voices) (German dubbed in English) This machine is still a prototype. It can be taken apart completely, so it can be transported on a plane. It allows us to examine the individual Otzi's cause of death is clear. It also reveals a lot of information about From a medical perspective, when examining ancient Egyptian mummies. The same applies to mummies like Otzi. We want to see if things have changed as a result of the different lifestyle we We're always trying to learn and how we interact with our environment. Every mummy can contribute to this quest. While Otzi was murdered, the researchers and alpinists who died but rather died of old age, had a lifestyle prone to risk, or pre-existing conditions. We really want to understand this new But in our minds, we know it's wrong to disturb the dead, to not respect them. And because of this which results in a curse. Thus the key to the Tutankhamun case does But what makes the pharaoh so unique? Does his short life hold any clues? Why did the Egyptian king die? Was he killed? X-rays from 1969 show Again, some are quick to bring up The Valley of the Kings, 2005. Zahi Hawass and wanted to examine the pharaoh on-site, using state-of-the-art technology. The scientists don't believe in a curse to retrieve information from the mummy. Today a team of Egyptian archeologists examine the mummy for the And the purpose of this examination To find out the cause of his death. Once more, the Golden King Once more, strange things start to happen. While examining the mummy, The computer starts malfunctioning. But eventually the scan works and the researchers receive Tutankhamun wasn't killed. But still, The puzzling thing about Tutankhamun's Now that's a very strange thing to do to a But maybe it was the natural result of the In ancient Egypt, in an elaborate process This was meant to make sure the soul would The body was thoroughly cleansed. The inner organs The body was covered in sodium to prevent decomposition. (mysterious tones) Back in Zurich at the Professor Ruhli is using animal organs to conduct research The mummification process in ancient Egypt It's hard to reconstruct because about how the Egyptians carried out We're trying to simulate the process using substances similar to those We're using fresh pig organs We used them to reconstruct the different The art of mummification was or from master to apprentice. Professor Ruhli can only guess But the researcher has an explanation as to why (Ruhli speaks German) Tutankhamun's mummy is quite dark, Some think the mummy also looks burnt. I think it has more to do with the fact that caused the skin to change color. Similar to the embalmed pig's liver (Ruhli speaks German) We're looking at a pig's liver which has already changed We first dried it in sodium bicarbonate, treated it in oils and beeswax, we covered it with bitumen, The liver has flattened. It's become thin. But it's got the typical look and texture that one could also find (speaks German) (mysterious tones) At the end of the procedure, the mummified Usually. But Tutankhamun's heart Without a heart, the Egyptians believe (traditional music) Eternal life after death plays The soul has to live on. But certain steps need to be taken. And this is where magic because the dead pharaoh (mysterious tones) In this scene of the Book of the Dead, the principles of justice and truth the person's life achievements, You can see the hieroglyph for heart here, and this one is ma'at: justice, truth. If they're in balance, the person for eternity. The heart mustn't lie. The monster is this primordial creature, if the trial doesn't end (speaks German) Is the heartless mummy cursed? Or did the sudden death, and hasty funeral It remains unclear Based on their research, scientists agree that Tutankhamun died when he was 19, and apparently wasn't killed. So what did kill the pharaoh? (Ruhli) There are various theories saying he was run over by a chariot and got injured in the process. Based on current findings, however, are unfortunately the result of handling But we're unable to prove that. Many of the deaths in Carter's team as the pharaoh's fate. Carter's assistant, Arthur Mace, Unlike Howard Carter, he's said to have believed in the curse Can curses really bring about bad luck? (dramatic music) At least to those who believe in them. (creepy tones) Gorres Holst claims to be a magician. He is convinced about over the purely physical world. Holst wants to demonstrate this (speaks German) A curse can also have a long-lasting You also have to keep in mind They also exist in the spiritual world Personally, I would assume a curse if that was how it was intended to be. Gorres Holst sets the scene for a curse. He asks invisible forces for assistance, forces that exist only for those I myself worship demons They allow me to access my powers. The magician wants to place a curse on the arrows of the archers. The aim of the experiment is Our three archers don't know what's They are simply told as they would for a competition, while the magician's task is to curse the arrows (dramatic music) (arrows being fired and striking target) I will once again center the arrows using Magician Gorres Holst in order to alter (creepy tones) (synth music) Nicole Engel is a psychologist She's monitoring the experiment and gets a first impression Does the archers' psyche factor in once they learn about the cursed arrows? At this distance, hitting the target It's going to be fun. First, the participants shoot This way can be determined without pressure or competition stress. (arrows firing) (arrows striking target) (speaks German) If I have seen that a curse or magic whether it's really true or not, it might be more likely meaning I believe a curse or cursed arrows (speaks German) Marek has a harder time than the others, even with arrows that haven't been cursed. Next, we start our experiment The archers have only been informed and nothing more. There you go. There you go. (speaks German) Is there a noticeable difference? (Camilo in German dubbed into English) I tried to see if they're heavier but I don't notice any differences. (ominous tones) Does the alleged curse Does it really have an effect or rather on the confidence (suspenseful music) (arrows flying and striking target) Olympian athlete Oleksander has full control over the cursed arrows. His performance is unaltered: It's a bit worse, but I would expect it It's typical for my shooting. (Camilo) Of course, in my mind, I was like, &quot;What has changed?&quot; I don't know. While Camilo thinks he feels something but still hits the target, I didn't notice anything unusual so it was definitely more of I noticed I got nervous. Mindset or real magic? Did the curse work? (Engel in German dubbed in English) Two of the participants are able One of the pros, the one who's &quot;Of course I thought about it.&quot; The other participant wasn't able to do Thoughts, feelings and our physiology or If I can't get my thoughts under control, things don't seem to work This is known as the nocebo effect. Suggestion can affect our mind and body. The nocebo effect is the bad big brother Where the placebo effect there are positive outcomes and therefore you feel positive effects the nocebo effect So by believing that manifests itself in you. Subconscious processes in our brain. It was a test, but I think And please remember, If I had crammed in more, if I had it could've swept the guys off their feet and it would have been irresponsible I only cursed the arrows, nothing more. The effect is different for each archer. Those who believe in curses To scientists, there is only facts. Also when it comes to the pharaoh. DNA analysis The beautiful golden mask hides Tutankhamun's body The young pharaoh He had a club foot. This explains why there were He also had an acute case of malaria. His premature death incest, and a potential accident. No murder took place. But what was behind all those deaths, and after Otzi's discovery, It was no fungus These were explicable, Most of the deceased were old But again, the power It was only after journalists that the myth of the curse The pharaoh died unexpectedly, so his funeral in the Valley of the Kings The tomb required for his burial hadn't been made yet, so the young king had to make do with Usually pharaohs had their tombs built Today, science has shown were often used more than once. Dr. Carina van den Hoven and her team are currently looking into this topic (Hoven in Dutch dubbed n English) This tomb was built for its owner His name was Djehuty and he's depicted (speaks Dutch) (speaks Dutch) A couple of hundred years later, the tomb was used by another (speaks Dutch) Scientists will continue conducting Whether their takeaways can be transferred is impossible to tell. Even more so since scientists also have to We previously thought out of convenience, for economic reasons, because it was cheaper But that's not true. the act of re-using a tomb (speaks Dutch) The two deceased people had a lot They had the same profession, That indicates that the tomb but rather for deeper reasons. People were actually trying (mysterious tones) Tutankhamun was a modest pharaoh. Tutankhamun's story is so fascinating partly because he was such an incredibly but also because by this amazing civilization and has practically We love to hear these magical stories Associate that with the curse, and you have an amazing story Tutankhamun's death marks the end New dynasties take over. The curse of the pharaoh remains a myth, a media phenomenon, a story that many just want to believe in. And yet many mysteries about Tutankhamun or whether his unusual tomb can also be explained like his father Akhenaton, was to be erased