Transcriber: Yulia Kallistratova So we're here in the center of technology, and I just wanted to ask What was the greatest the basis for all subsequent technology, and when was it made? The greatest technological breakthrough invented 2 million years ago in the first and greatest information age by Homo erectus, mom and dad. (Laughter) Homo erectus was one to ever walk the Earth. They lived on this planet We have so far lived on this planet for a certain 200,000, So we haven't lived a quarter of the time Homo erectus was a marvelous creature. It had the greatest brain maybe the universe had ever seen. The range of size of the Homo erectus 75% of the size of an adult and roughly in the range and that proves to us (Laughter) The Homo erectus brain and body That was the first body - Homo erectus stood They weighted probably around 150 pounds and they were the first creatures capable of persistent hunting. Our bipedal gait enables us and cool down more efficiently So, Homo erectus was actually until the prey either or Homo erectus beat it to death Homo erectus was a marvelous creature. And they had many accomplishments. Homo erectus made a variety of tools, And they kept these tools, and they improved these tools, so that they had an upgrade: And they upgraded this to Levallois tools. And each tool was better But they weren't limited to stone tools. Homo erectus also made spears, wooden tools that we have found, And they made two kinds of spears. They made spears for throwing What does a spear for thrusting mean? It means you're a 5 foot 8 to 6 foot 1 and you run up and stick These were fierce creatures, and they were extremely So tools were one that lets us know what kind of brain They also had representations of reality. This is a 250,000 year-old partially naturally-formed and by Homo erectus, Venus. It's called the Venus of Berekhat Ram, and there's some evidence A shell found on the island of Java with engravings on the shell Homo erectus wasn't simply a toolmaker. They were boat makers. They traveled the oceans How do we know this? Well, the first island that we find is the island of Flores in Indonesia, which would have been about about the size of the English Channel, except that Flores was, then and now, surrounded by the most treacherous They couldn't have swum to Flores. They got there by boat. This is actually the island of Flores, I don't think Homo erectus (Laughter) Archaeologists have the voyages of Homo Erectus similar to the kinds of rafts We know because of the amount of islands that their getting to these islands We know by the size of the colonies that multiple individuals to start these colonies, and we know therefore So one was Flores. Another was Socotra, then and now, 150 miles into the ocean where we find Homo erectus colonies. That requires imagination, that sailing to something in exploration, and Homo erectus seems to do this. There's also evidence So Homo erectus was a seafarer, Homo erectus was a toolmaker, Homo erectus was but they did more than this. Homo erectus also Homo erectus evolved By 1.7 million years ago, they were already in Beijing, they were in Indonesia, they were in the Middle East, they were in Europe. Homo erectus traveled - I won't be surprised when that we have evidence because if they could walk to Beijing it was just a little hop, up across the Bering Strait Maybe they did, maybe they didn't. But their abilities show that they So now, it's not all good news, Homo erectus had the vocal They couldn't have made They would have had a range of sounds Is that a big deal when it comes There are many languages today here's one: (Speaking in Piraha) That's one of the languages I've worked on Piraha, and it only has ten sounds and eleven sounds if you're a man. And with eleven sounds, you can produce So was erectus capable of eleven sounds? Well, they didn't even need You can type anything you can communicate You can type it in Microsoft Word and when you do that, Well ultimately, a computer only uses and with those sounds, So erectus, theoretically, only needed to be able to make Our ancestors were the first with the anatomy that they had. Their brains not only were smaller, they were somewhat slower their childhood development which is a disadvantage cognitively because our children have I think it's about 30 years now - (Laughter) and they are able to put into place When I tell this joke in college, (Laughter) But we know. So Homo erectus had but the most important thing would've kept it from language Right now, scientists are excavating about 750,000 years old, in Gesher Benot Ya'aqov And we find that this village There's a section of the village a section of the village another section of the village So, they not only built villages, So they were capable they were capable of planning, What makes language? What was lacking for them A language is just, symbols and grammar. And how many symbols do you need, What's a symbol, first of all? Charles Sanders Peirce, a philosopher from the United States defined three kinds of signs: Indexes, which are signs that are physically connected So, you go outside, you smell smoke, Smoke is an index of fire. You see a footprint, that's an index. And the next sign - So, all animals need signs. Our five senses evolved for us Without indexes we can't function in the world. The next kind of sign is an icon - there's no physical connection, The figure of Berekhat Ram, the Venus, The Mona Lisa is an icon. The cross in Christianity started off So you get this. So, what is a symbol then? The symbol is conventionally a sign that is conventionally So, take the number four: f-o-u-r, That means what? It means a cardinality of four, but four is a culturally-determined form and a culturally-determined meaning. Not all languages have mathematics. Piraha, for example, There are no mathematical concepts So math is a cultural discovery, if not a cultural construct, and not everyone has math in that sense. So the symbols for math Symbols are culturally determined. The next thing we need and here's a fascinating fact - When Peirce said that indexes come first, and then symbols, he inadvertently, indirectly predicted in the archaeological record. So indexes all creatures have. Those are 5 billion years old closer to 4 billion. But, when did the first icon, the first image, appear in the archaeological record? Well, we have to go back 3 million years, which is not that far back, to Australopithecus africanus. And we find in a cave of Australopithecus, the Makapansgat cave a small, little two-inch by three-inch or the Makapansgat manuport and some Australopithecus recognized It looks like the original And Australopithecus We know that because they and took it to their cave Now, it's possible it was a coincidence, maybe they got But two inches by three inches is a bit big for even So they seem to have carried it there So first, we see icons - first, we see indexes, and next we see symbols. So, what can a symbol be? Think of a shovel. Often when people talk about symbols but abstract art Think of a shovel. A shovel is a tool, we think of labor, we think of blisters, we think of gardening, we think of our family - all sorts of memories. The shovel becomes a symbol The tools that erectus used In the way that they were In fact, we find a special a colored quartz hand axe that indicates that they saw in this tool, as I'm saying, something symbolic. So, they had symbols, they had planning, they had ordered thought. So they needed a grammar. So what kinds Well, there is one popular by someone I will not mention, but this particular theory of grammar I have identified three kinds of grammar in my field research One I'll call G1, the next one is G2, G1 grammars are just We have examples of this in English: &quot;You drink, you drive, you go to jail.&quot; &quot;No shirt, no shoes, no service.&quot; It's just words in order. But the next kind and let me point out that there are modern languages, in which serious psycholinguists are this G1 type - A G2 grammar has hierarchy, so &quot;If you drink and you drive, You take the words And a G3 grammar has &quot;If you drink and drive because your wife's going to get upset because her father told you he was never going and you can just keep on going. Those kinds of grammars are found but you can express anything mathematically they're all of equal power. So, once you have symbols you have language, We find those today. Was Homo erectus capable of that? Yes, they were. Did they show the kinds of communication, correction, cooperation, planning that would have required human language? Yes, they did. All animals communicate - there's not a single animal that doesn't communicate - but it still seems that only humans Only humans have elaborate, that allow us to communicate. But is there anything that requires that grammars be a mutation? Or that grammars be innate? Or that grammars be an instinct? Does it seem any more than or an instinct for building cars, or an instinct for making burritos. I can find making burritos if you get into anatomy, you could identify where where that knowledge is, but that doesn't mean it's innate. It just means that's where for a variety of reasons. So language, by all that we see, has been invented, So as soon as a culture gets hold Languages are always changing. Sometimes they become more elaborate, Homo erectus started through the accomplishments that they had, through what we know about and through the artifacts and villages and evidence of voyages that they left Language started, if this is all correct - I urge upon you the view that it is - if this is all correct, language started It's one of the greatest breakthroughs, the beginning of the information it enabled every other And if we go back to this guy, in the sense of upright And he is (Laughter) the person who first spoke. The first person perhaps &quot;I love you.&quot; Or who said, &quot;Let's go.&quot; Or, &quot;I want that.&quot; Imagine the possibilities 60,000 generations of language. TED talks are an example of an attempt to harnass There is nothing more powerful We still don't understand but we know that it makes us who we are - the ability to speak So, as you leave TED this evening, as you leave these talks and this day use language, talk, and listen, and appreciate the value that these talking gorillas, the first humans to walk the Earth, gave us. Thank you. (Applause)