This is the old Howard Frankland Bridge that Old Tampa Bay between St. Petersburg and Tampa, A replacement for the bridge is currently of Transportation almost had to replace it The bridge first opened for traffic in 1960, severe corrosion to the steel reinforcement After less than 30 years of service, FDOT expensive and disruptive endeavor. But, before embarking on a replacement project, on a test, a provisional retrofit to try and within the bridge's substructure. Over the next two decades, FDOT embarked on on the bridge. And it worked! The Howard Frankland Bridge lasted more than before needing to be replaced, kept in working of replacing it in the 1980s. The way that bridge in Tampa was protected I've built a ridiculous machine in my garage and see how it measures up. I'm Grady and this is Practical Engineering. In today's episode, we're talking about This video is sponsored by Curiosity Stream More on them later. Of all the structural metals in use today, of mild steel (just plain old iron and carbon). There are so many applications where steel including bridges, spillway gates, water tanks, That means there are so many opportunities We're in the middle of a deep dive series I talked about its astronomical cost, which just in the United States alone. Of course, we could build everything out of as expensive for the raw materials, and much mild steel. Instead, it's usually more cost effective and there are a number of ways to do it. Paint is an excellent way to create a barrier and I'll cover coatings in a future video. But, there are some limitations to paint, and it's not always possible to apply (like That's where cathodic protection comes in Let me introduce you to what I am calling to ever need or want. It consists of a tank full of salt water, These plastic arms lower steel samples down up so the fan can dry them off, hopefully Corrosion is an electrochemical process. That just means that it's a chemical reaction The two individual steps required for corrosion separate locations. This is possible because electrons can flow low electric potential (called anodes) to As the anode loses electrons, it corrodes. This reaction is even possible on the same the material may have slightly different charges However, you can create a much larger difference This table is called the galvanic series, (in other words, resistance to corrosion) When any two of these materials are joined metal with lesser nobility will act as the The more noble metal becomes the cathode and You can see that steel sits near the bottom noble and more prone to corrosion. But, there are a few metals below it, including Zinc, and Magnesium. And wouldn't you know it, I have some pieces garage that I attached to samples of mild We can test out the effects of cathodic protection Each time the samples are lifted to dry, the a couple of cameras to take a photo. One of the samples is a control with no anode, consisting of magnesium, aluminum, and zinc I'll set this going and come back to it One application of cathodic protection you involves coating steel in a protective layer The coating acts kind of like a paint to physically acts as a sacrificial anode because it is Galvanizing steel is relatively inexpensive corrosion, so nearly all steel structures of zinc coating, including framing for buildings, and more. Most outdoor-rated nails and screws are galvanized. You can even get galvanized rebar for concrete it is worth the premium to extend the lifespan But because it's normally a factory process baths of molten zinc, you can't really re-galvanize where it's no longer protecting the steel. Also, in aggressive environments like the a thin zinc coating might not last very long. In many cases, it makes more sense to use like I've done in my demonstration here. Cathodic protection anodes like this are used those that are underground or underwater. I let this demonstration run for 3 weeks in Each cycle lasted about 5 minutes, meaning about 6,000 times. And here's a timelapse of those entire three Correct me if you find something better, but time lapse video of corrosion that exists It's actually really pretty, but if you're like this sample on the left, you're going You can see that the unprotected steel rusts attacks the sample much more deeply. The sample with the magnesium looks like it the anode. It's nearly gone after just those three It's the least noble metal on the galvanic The samples with aluminum and zinc anodes it's significantly less than the control. In fact, this is exactly how the lifespan extended for so long. Zinc was applied around the outside of concrete piles, then coupled to the reinforcing steel anode, significantly slowing down the corrosion Here's a closeup of each sample after I you can really see how dramatic the difference The pockets of rust on the unprotected steel corrosion experienced by the samples with The anodes went through some pretty drastic After scraping off the oxides, the zinc anode of the original text cast into the metal. The aluminum anode corroded pretty significantly, On the other hand, there's hardly anything weeks. And here's a look at the metal after I wire The difference in roughness is hard to show touch. There's no question that the samples with to corrosion over the duration of the experiment. There's actually one more trick to cathodic Rather than rely on the natural difference we can introduce our own electric current direction and ensure that the vulnerable steel This process is called impressed current cathodic In many places, pipelines are legally required protection systems to reduce the chance of costs. The potential between the pipe and soil is typical AA battery, but the current flow can If you look along the right-of-way for a buried can often see the equipment panels that hold cathodic protection system. The Howard Frankland bridge also had some passive protection to further extend its life, over again: The maintenance and rehabilitation of existing fewer resources, and is less environmentally You don't need a civil engineer to tell pound of cure (or the whatever the metric It's true for human health, and it's true Making a structure last as long as possible good stewardship of resources. It's a way to keep the public safe and prevent Corrosion is one of the number one ways that cathodic protection systems are an essential safe and sound. There's one more video in this series on a demonstration using the rustomatic 3000. If you want to catch that video as soon as live on Nebula before they're released here Nebula's an ad-free streaming service built Wendover Productions, Real Engineering, Legal It's a way for us to try new ideas that like YouTube. And, we're super excited to continue our with thousands of big-budget documentaries Curiosity Stream loves independent creators they're offering free access to Nebula when I know it's a little hard to keep track now, but this bundle is so cheap that you You pay one time, 15 bucks, to get an entire the awesome documentary content there PLUS is full of videos like this one (but without There is actually 2 different series of documentaries seen every one of them. The Wales episode of World of Bridges is my Or, watch Sam from Wendover Productions try team in the Nebula-exclusive series, Crime It's a great way to support my channel and creators. Plus it's just a good deal. Do us both a favor and click that link in Thank you for watching, and let me know what