- I paid someone to give us a list of the most unusual places on there's this place with no gravity. - What? - And this underwater city and this tree where goats live in it. These places are unbelievable. There's so much wind that this and this is real. - So that's not a waterfall, - This was a hiking area that got flooded. - Fish don't even have legs, - Why would you build a bridge for a fish? - That's dumb. They can just swim. Sometimes humans are dumb. - Goofy bits aside, this is - This was all above water and and now it's submerged. All the fish are like, &quot;What is this? Who put this here?&quot; - We don't need this, we don't have feet. - This next clip is really cool, so if you look on the right - I thought that was a shoe. - Look. - That's a fish. The way he's like. - Important question. - What? - Is the fish swimming or - Usually would make fun I don't think science can answer this. - Wait, wait, there's more fish crossing? How many fish have to cross the street? Walt, why fish cross road? - Salmon swim upstream to breed. - They gotta call saying, &quot;My parents aren't home.&quot; He said, &quot;Bet.&quot; - God speed, little salmon. - Oh that's weird. - So the wind lifts up - See I thought it was maybe water underneath it but no it's it goes. on that? - I think we would fall through it, right? - So there's this rock cut in half in the middle of the desert, which means there's one - Yeah. - Wind blew the sand so hard that the sand slowly wore it down or wore a path to the middle. Or an alien with a giant - No I think we actually Tanjiro trained hard enough to where he was able to slice the rock. - You ruined my joke with an anime joke. - Anime is amazing. - Do you think it was wind or an alien? Comment below. Whoa! than those buildings. Dude, the people in those &quot;Oh okay, so what do we do? Just kiss our butts goodbye?&quot; - What would happen if - Do you know what you're supposed to do in that situation so you can survive? - Uh, just close your eyes and pray. - No so you actually get on to your, you sit down, get onto your and start pulling it and then you start - Bro. I thought he was giving real advice. - Mm mm. I'm a silly, goofy guy. - Look around me. - I see sand. - These are the biggest climate disaster that nobody is talking about. - So confused. - Oh this is the place where Nemo's dad, I always forget his name, - Marlin. Got hit with a jellyfish. - Wow, so it's just a lake full? - I guess so, we wouldn't be seeing it unless you think the internet's lying. - I feel interrogated. Look at this cave right here. - Oh now I believe him, wow. - This actually exists, it's not CGI. This is the largest cave - That's a pretty big cave. - Whoa. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. That looks like a great - I was about to say they had to film at least one or two movies there. - Wow. - This is still inside the cave? Oh my God, yeah, this is incredible. We should go here. - I agree. - I told you I want to - Yeah but I don't think it's viral. - Guys, tell him it's viral. - Whoa. - What is that? - Volcanic lightning. Is the volcano making clouds? - Walt. - The volcano erupts, causes a cloud of ash, that makes lightning. The lightning is kinda and when it gets a lot of it's like achoo. that's true. It is kinda actually true. - I just don't think that's true. - Clouds rain, they get agitated. - 10 million starlings flock together to create the most made in nature. - Wow, dude, it looks like there's drones. - Yeah, but those aren't drones. - No, those are birds. Well drones are birds, birds - Tell me that's not some other government spying on them. Oh I've seen this, okay, so - Uh huh. - And watch, the glacier in the back. - Oh it makes like a. - Yeah, fell and created See that's either the or the scariest. - Your motor starts going pooping your pants. - Well that's where and let it go over you, right? - Yeah, you'll be fine, there's definitely not a giant wall of water and ice underneath. - Is that how that works? - Mm hm. - We should Nerf waves. - Hopefully they'll get That's the Hoover Dam, oh my God, that's the thing from Fall Out New Vegas. - Wow, wow, when it's - I don't get it. - This is so cool. - Why's the water going up? I don't get it. - Water go up, wow. Wait, is that a natural Walt, is this natural? - Yes. - Oh my gosh. - So there's just gas - That's so cool. Let's be real. - If you were shrunk down to size, it looks like where a giant 'cause it's behind the waterfall and it's got the eternal flame. - Oh my God. The ice makes it really cool. Yeah, the earth has a lot of farts. - This looks like a neighborhood. - Mm, kinda looks like a market really. - What is cool about this? - It's got a geyser? Is that a geyser? Oh wait, it's built on and then the water shoots - The middle, yeah, when there's waves. - You can get nachos and that's pretty cool, I Is that a police car? - Oh my gosh, Walt, what am I looking at? - Ball of lightning. - How it there? - That's literally what it's called. - Yeah but how it there? - I thought it was a cop car. - I have no idea. - Then I have no idea. - Then I have no idea. - And you have no idea. This is a tire graveyard. - That's terrible. - There's literally millions - This makes me sad. - Don't think about how and how your kids' kids might Ignore all that. It looks cool. - It is cool to take a picture of. If video game physics applied, you could just theoretically all over that. - Next up it's the tunnel of love. - Ooh. That's a dog. I'm in love. It looks like a long walk, not gonna lie. - Here's a fun date idea, grab - Yeah of course. - Take your girlfriend. - Ride down it. - Yeah, Minecraft IRL. - Oh, I assume a volcano erupted. - They're gonna have so - If you live near a volcano and built one in your pool and your you now have a way to convince them. It could save your house from the volcano. - And also afterwards - We have this tree that goats live in. - God, I wanna go there right now. - Well let's go. - All the goats think they're birds. - I love how while it's panning with the camera. It looks like a rap album cover. - Somebody literally brought - Instead of moving forward, the car starts moving backwards. I'm pushing this ball downhill and watch what happens. - Wait. - It goes down because of my push but then it stops. - Did you know - - Sh, I'm learning. - You're not learning anything. - All right, explain. - Ghost. - Wow. No, no, no, really, why'd it do that? - What do you think, I'm some - You were doing the, Walt? - It's an optical illusion. - So we were lied to? - Oh my God. That was a lot heavier than I thought. - And indeed, hectares and hectares of giant water lilies - Everything in this is - Are you allowed to stand? - Does that answer your question? - How'd she know I was about to ask that? - Because she's British. - All right, what is this? Wait. Wait, is that? - The lightning is like, oh my God. - Walt, is that CGI? - No. - Wow. - This isn't CGI? - Dude, imagine before and you saw that, you'd - 2000 years ago I see &quot;Yep, sorry God, sorry for - You're sitting there &quot;No, I'm not gonna wipe.&quot; &quot;I'm sorry, I'll wipe every time.&quot; And that's how cleanliness started. Dude, this looks like - I hope the airplane boneyard is right beside the tire boneyard. - Yeah, you wanna keep your - And then beside that I full of bones. - I heard of this Japanese town that replaced humans with known as kakashi. - Why's everything cool in Japan? - Japan is really cool. - The video's over, I'm gonna go see if I can visit that. Subscribe if you haven't already. - To Japan we go.