[Music] This is the season where many of us just the perfect tiny English cottage for it. So near Oswestry in England right on the Welsh magical place in the Welsh borders. It fell the grounds up. They made sure to reuse all the restore this gorgeous and tinycottage. The main his Welsh power base on the edge of it's still a family home and working farm. The 30 years lovingly restoring the place and also knocker so much. It's my all time favourite. Okay. Welcome to our tiny cottage. Come here on the left is the very tiny kitchen but very luxurious at the moment because we are still is still a mess. The range cooker is not working everything is in working order and I can't wait to gingerbread. It's that time of the year. Now here chilly day today so we made a fire. Jorg is cottage is so tiny the the sitting room feels the fabrics in here are actually from Colefax you need to see the wall colour. So this is from the name. It's a very gorgeous plum aubergine also love the the fender here. Have a look. Very because seeing this set up you would think okay and on the other side let me turn around really love. The wooden furniture century. It's so characterful. I do love the chairs in timeless and elegant. And guess what? We do that? Absolutely gorgeous. One of my favourite staircase gives it a little bit more of so it's great it's a great mixture but I mirrors here because it gives it a little here is a cupboard so you can put your Really clever. And what I also love I mean I here from the estate itself and that they work can see here like the window openers and all I think you can see it from here. The curtain the blacksmith and sculptor Will O'Brien who here. And all the stone artwork in the cottage the sculptor Zoe Wilson who also did the She did an amazing job. So as you can see the it such an airy feel. It's a tiny cottage but you kitchen. This is actually quite spacious. I mean bed. Again antique wooden furniture. Absolutely know I just love I really love the window. And probably do tomorrow. Let me just show you the sofa. I've been told that the lampshades that we actually use several times so I'm but we can really recommend the shop. They lamps. Yesterday day when we arrived I spotted to have a look tonight. I spotted Wilton or I away. A house that is very often used for filming a gorgeous place. If you are in the area you here. It's gorgeous. My highlight from up here absolutely incredible. This is the view towards are actually from the 12th century and although house because centuries ago this was in Wales. Tig is an incredible landscape designer forgot to show you the small bathroom. Let's go left. Not big but absolutely fine. So it has a Now we found this property via the website 'Under this year. We can wholeheartedly recommend them Something we always love and of course I will box. Isn't it cosy? Very much. And you know what something we always love. No, it's good because just - like talking to each other or reading haven't showed you this here. This this setup lodge. Yes. What do you think? Yeah, it does. It's the tour that this the the the fender - yeah - and doesn't it? Yes. We should have it in our snug. We could but it would make it more tiny. Yeah, foot stool actually. Can you just let me me. like that. And I I don't know it goes so well patterns. Yeah but it looks - it works - good and see we do have Country Life here. The World of I don't know if did you check by any chance if think it's not. It's not but 'The Private Gardens [Music] So Jorg headed to the shop because last night we tonight. And in the meantime I'm going to prepare it's not Christmas yet but I thought I don't would be a good idea. And we shared this video. I will link that for you again. It's egg because I will do a little bit less than 2 honey, baking powder, of course flour. This is And what I did I brought some spices from Germany. in the UK so this is Lebkuchengewurz, gingerbread And I will just mix a little bit of this. I know which isn't a problem. I can always help myself. together. I think I have to need it a little for a couple of hours to give it some rest. Jorg meet Tig as well and he said I I mean the garden so immaculate and he told me that him and Simon help whatsoever which makes me speechless. I'm door knocker because Jorg and I I don't know we've is honestly my all-time favourite. He said that the iron work in here he made the door knocker so think think I would have bought it but also well I the wooden door. It makes it very special Jorg just made it back on time for tea - yes Okay, I'm going to make the our gorgeous wooden molds that we bought three. The third one is a Christmas tree but I [Music] This is so easy to make and it looks like this. the dough gets warm it it's too soft and hard for only about 6 to 7 minutes at 160deg C. That's and it smells like Christmas. Yes. That's Very nice with a cup of tea. Mmhh. And now on to Jorg is going to make dinner now and greens turnovers which usually is a I don't thought it looks very nice so yeah, This looks and smells so good already. So we gluten free. That's why, Jorg, it wasn't a lot easy. And I think it will be really good - yeah just - and it gives a lot of flavour. Yes. with the I don't know with the herbs and the for 30 minutes. 30 minutes. And this one looks that because I think that will be the best one. This is actually very very nice. It's so all of the gingerbread we have. The only I mean this will if we keep it in a in it will remain fresh for a couple of weeks I dessert. Yes - but I could also - so they won't a few days they're lucky. We can what, well, morning I will use them as well. They're [Music] Good morning! Good morning! We woke up to the right in front of the window. It's so gorgeous. touch them. Yeah. So nice. They were also, Yeah. And I think they were almost like 'let in. So lovely. And we're going to have breakfast I have the the so-called Finn crisp. We Cheese. And a little treat, the I really love the country house - yeah gorgeous garden. Oh yes. This one is really they they're still working on it, don't they? Yes. here you have the gorgeous gate house. Yeah and Yeah. They've done an incredible job. Yes. I just the morning take a walk in the gardens. Well, We had such a lovely walk. Yes, it was had a great chat with the owners Tig they really are. Also, we love this wind down. Half sheep in front of your window go to. Yes. We can really recommend it. And now we strange? We've never been. It's not far from us hours drive yes. We've never been so I mean so let's go there and just, yeah? Explore So this is a fantastic building from 1621. look at the sign. Yeah. Real bread [Music] We're starting to lose the light. Yeah and and winter for you. So next week will actually will still be a mess. Yes, it probably will be to show you the kitchen in our Christmas a two in a one! Fingers crossed. We really sticking with us. We do appreciate it and we so much for watching. We'll see you