- Well we've done it. We're in Ripper town now. - Rip city. - This is what the people wanted. We're gonna bag us a ripper today. - We're gonna slap the cuffs on 'em. - It's been over 100 years. Who better to solve it than the boys? - I mean, if we don't, I'm and I'm never going back to America. - We can't go back to the States. Well, here we go. - Any of you seen a ripper? - This week on Buzzfeed we investigate Jack the Ripper. Perhaps the most infamous Hundreds of suspects have and it has baffled investigators for over 100 years. - But it's not gonna baffle the boys. - Yeah and if we're ripperologists. - We're unbaffleable. - That's not a word. - I think it's a word. - I've done so much research on this one. I'm very, very pleased with I think I've done it. - You think this is your white whale? - I didn't solve it, but I did a good job. - Okay, well you got me all excited. - [Ryan] The year is 1888. The stage, the shadowy of the East End of London. More specifically, the an area with a proclivity amongst the backdrop of poverty. But suddenly, a string of in a way never seen before. The culprit, a mad man The world's most notorious While most believe the Ripper claimed the lives of only five, now referred to as &quot;The Canonical Five,&quot; others believe the of up to 11 women. All five of the canonical as many women in the Whitechapel District had to turn to prostitution The morbid intrigue is At the time of the murders, literacy was increasing The murders were covered in the newspaper and the public became In the end, the public was so upset at the failed attempts that the police commissioner eventually resigned. - [Shane] So was this like, one of the first instances of like, sort of a media frenzy 'Cause this sounds like O.J. or JonBenet. - I wonder if they had - I don't think they did, Ryan. - I could see them having like they do in Game of Thrones. - Okay, I could see that. Little puppets, yeah. - I'm on board with that. - Also, touching on the I think this is the first time I've actually seen a because he was so upset and that makes sense to me when there's a serial killer on the loose, you really are just playing and he's just getting out - It's your whole livelihood. - That could drive you insane. I feel like that would drive me insane. Today, we're gonna cover and by the end will have examined the most suspects we've ever presented with eight possible killers. Without further ado, let's On August 31, 1888 at 3:40 a.m., the body of Mary Ann Nichols was found in Buck's Row in Whitechapel. The body was discovered by who claims he was walking along Buck's Row when he noticed a bundle Another man named Robert Paul approached the body with Cross. Police would eventually Mary Ann Nichols was found on her back, her throat severely slashed, It was determined she had only been dead for about a half hour, meaning the killer was likely nearby when Cross first saw the body. - Now how did they, at this point in time, I don't know what their how do they know what a half hour is? Do they just sort of like.. - I mean, he just goes over.. Let's see. - That's half hour blood right there. - Yeah, that's 30 minutes. Maybe they had a bloodhound? I don't know. - That's not what bloodhounds-- - (laughing) I don't know. I know bloodhounds are used - You don't feed them - You don't feed - You feed a bloodhound some blood and it barks for every minute. - And it goes, &quot;A positive. &quot;Universal donor.&quot; - &quot;Dead for five minutes.&quot; (laughter) - Right now we're at the This is Mary Ann Nichols. They found her at the which is now Durward Street. You can kind of see where it was. Like, see that building right We can't go over there 'cause - It's a growing city. - But just below that and she was found in the that lined this street before. Kind of similar to these gateways here. I mean, it's kind of weird to think that they didn't know this the most infamous serial - One crazy summer. (laughter) - [Ryan] On September 8, 1888, the body of Annie Chapman was Her body was discovered an elderly resident of the Her throat was cut and this in that the murderer took her womb. So this is the approximate Annie Chapman was killed but my sources have told me 29 Hanbury is actually over there, but where it approximately was around the entrance to Truman Brewery, which is right there. - Imagine the pandemonium. - [Ryan] Dr. George Baxter Phillips was serving as the divisional and proposed the idea that the killer had anatomical knowledge by the manner in which Annie That's the first clue, he's a doctor. Probably. - [Ryan] Or has basic Later that month on September 27, 1888, the Central News Agency receives a letter from the apparent killer. It reads, &quot;Dear Boss, &quot;I keep on hearing the &quot;but they won't fix me just yet. &quot;I have laughed when they look so clever &quot;and talk about being on the right track. &quot;That joke about Leather &quot;I am down on whores and &quot;till I do get buckled. &quot;Grand work the last job was. &quot;I gave the lady no time to squeal. &quot;How can they catch me now? &quot;I love my work and want to start again. &quot;You will soon hear of me &quot;I saved some of the proper red stuff &quot;in a ginger beer bottle over the last job &quot;to write with but it went thick like glue &quot;and I can't use it. &quot;Red ink is fit enough I hope. Ha. Ha. &quot;The next job I do I shall &quot;and send to the police officer &quot;Keep this letter back &quot;then give it out straight. &quot;My knife's so nice and sharp &quot;I want to get to work right &quot;Good luck. &quot;Yours truly, Jack the Ripper. &quot;Don't mind giving me the trade name. &quot;Wasn't good enough to post this &quot;before I got all the &quot;Curse it. No luck yet. &quot;They say I'm a doctor now. Ha. Ha.&quot; - [Shane] Hoo, I mean.. - [Ryan] Yeah, I-- - [Ryan] Jack the Ripper This guy had a knack for naming things. - He knows his brand. If this was happening today or if social media - Oh, this guy would be a Viner for sure. - He'd be a Viner. He'd have extensive - Instagood. Instafood. - #Ripped. - This letter wasn't released to the public until October 1st and many believe that it was but regardless, it made Once in the eyes of the and the killer from that point on went by the now famous Three days later on the body of Elizabeth Stride by a man named Louis Diemschutz. Only her throat was cut, which led police to believe when Diemschutz approached. Right now we're walking up on the site of the second murder, Elizabeth Stride. She was found by a man right around here. This is now, I think, a schoolyard. Well a lot of people actually question whether or not this was the Ripper because her throat was cut rather hastily. None of the other little No disembowelment, none of that stuff. Almost as if he was walked - Yeah, just, &quot;Oh, gotta - Can't do the whole fixin's here. It was determined that she when examined around 1:15 a.m. Shockingly, only 45 of Elizabeth Stride, another body was found in Mitre Square, just west of the Stride murder. A woman named Catherine Eddowes was the second victim in the same night. Her body was severely Her uterus was removed, as So only 45 minutes after the investigators stumbled upon the body of Catherine Eddowes here. - Like, right here? - In this general area. There used to be a flowerbed here that was kind of, in a way, but this was just, like I said, 45 minutes after a about 10 to 15 minutes away. Walking distance. What's weird is that after he he went back towards the - This guy knows how to zag. - Either that or he just - I think he's just a zagger. - So the body is back there. Right now we're walking that he would have taken away, walking east away from the body and then we're about to arrive at a site where he dropped one of the only clues he actually left investigators. It's here that police would discover one of the few solid a piece of Catherine Eddowes apron found near the scene of the crime. The apron was found by Alfred Long in the doorway of an apartment a nearby street east of Near this apron a message was &quot;The Juwes are the men that A sign of the anti-Semitism However, the crucial detail that it was found east of in the direction of Elizabeth the murder that occurred This perplexing decision willingly entered an area Aside from demonstrating the this could suggest the killer lived in this East London area, as it possibly explains the motive for entering a dangerous situation. Later, a postcard is received dated October 1st and written by someone also claiming to be the Ripper &quot;I was not codding, dear old &quot;You'll hear about Saucy &quot;Double event this time. &quot;Number one squealed a bit, &quot;Had not the time to get ears for police. &quot;Thanks for keeping last letter back &quot;till I got to work again. &quot;Jack the Ripper.&quot; This isn't confirmed, but that this postcard was or whoever received it, the morning after the The thing being there that's strange is none of the public knew because it hadn't been in papers yet. Yet this guy was able to - Yeah 'cause they're not runnin' around. - No, there's not like-- - Two people got murdered tonight. - There's not Twitter. Yeah, they're not playing with dixie cups. There isn't Twitter. So it's possible and quite likely that if the timing of this is On the 13th of October in 1888, the police spent a week in the East Densworth On October 16th, a man named George Lusk received a letter. Lusk was the head of the a group comprised of local The letter was signed &quot;from hell&quot; and it was delivered in a The kidney, at the time, was believed to be Catherine However, it was found to be - [Shane] Wait, so the &quot;from hell&quot; letter was a medical student? That's disappointing. - [Ryan] I suppose, yeah. - 'Cause I love &quot;from hell.&quot; Just that as a sign off. - From hell. - This also demonstrates the People weren't like, &quot;This - They're like, &quot;Well we - &quot;Wouldn't it be funny--&quot; - It's like the Ice Bucket Challenge. (laughter) Let's everybody get involved in this. - Nearly a month later, the body of the fifth and Mary Kelly, was found at by her landlord's assistant, This murder was by far the most gruesome as her body was disemboweled and &quot;virtually skinned down.&quot; This is the last victim. It's a little tricky because where there used is now, as you can see, it's so we can't really know but we know it was near the church. We know it was near the Ten Bells Pub. We could be actually at of Jack himself. Here's the landlord on &quot;The sight that we saw I &quot;It looked more like the work And with that we arrive at the end of the five canonical some believe there could With Jack the Ripper's reign of terror, one should wonder if of this monster, and it When aggregating eyewitness testimonies of those who believed they saw the Ripper, a rough outline of the It can be assumed that he was roughly 5'5 to 5'7, stocky, with a fair complexion, and a mustache. Allegedly, he was seen and a dark hat. The Scotland Yard's has said that Jack the Ripper, who one could call evil incarnated, could be described in appearance as &quot;perfectly sane, frighteningly normal, &quot;and yet capable of Sir Melville MacNaughten, the Scotland Yard's head of the criminal had a general suspicion He knew that the Ripper had possibly a doctor and he had narrowed his list of That being said, due to the overwhelming and the fact that many feel the official three are not the Ripper, we're going to examine eight names, starting with McNaughten's The first suspect was Druitt was a barrister who may who were doctors. Around the time of his death, Druitt may have been around the age of 40 and supposedly had an interest in surgery. Montague possibly lived with his cousin who was practicing medicine close to where the Whitechapel It also appears that about a month before the first canonical murder, Montague's mother went insane and Montague had written in a note that he feared he was also going insane. In his notes, McNaughten adds, &quot;From private information, &quot;I have little doubt &quot;suspected this man of being &quot;it was alleged that he After the final murder, only to be found dead within His body was found floating on December 3rd, 1888. - I get the sense, this but I have a hunch everyone we look at is going to have 10 things they are definitely Jack the Ripper because London at the time sounds like it was full - [Ryan] The second a Russian doctor and a criminal. Ostrog has been in an asylum previously for homicidal tendencies. McNaughten notes that Ostrog for his whereabouts during the murders. Ultimately, he was not convicted because there wasn't enough evidence linking him to the crime. - [Shane] How does a You just dabble in murdering someone? - [Ryan] Yeah, I don't You either murder someone or you don't. I can't imagine there's - [Shane] &quot;He only killed a nanny.&quot; - [Ryan] Yeah, (wheeze) yeah. - [Shane] It was a funny - [Ryan] The third suspect a Polish and Jewish who spent some time in an asylum in 1889 after the last murder. Kosminski would actually reside in asylums until his death in 1919. Kosminski was known for particularly prostitutes. According to McNaughten, his provided by the police which, if you'll recall, was where the Ripper likely Kosminski might be a name due to the fact that recently due to his being featured &quot;Naming Jack the Ripper.&quot; In this book, Russell Edwards claims that a contains DNA evidence proving The shawl was bought under the impression that it reportedly was at the murder scene on the person of Catherine Eddowes, the fourth ripper victim. Edwards enlisted the help Jari Louhelainen of Liverpool Edwards and Louhelainen is connected to Catherine Eddowes, based off of comparison from They also claim that semen on the scarf is linked to relatives of Kosminski. With this discovery, many including Edwards. Which if it was true, that's - [Shane] You got semen, you got blood. - [Ryan] Time to drag his name in the mud? - [Shane] Oh, I like that! You got the semen, got the blood, drag his name on through that mud. - [Ryan] There you go. It isn't bad, but let's find &quot;I've got the only piece &quot;in the whole history of the case. &quot;I've spent 14 years working on it, &quot;and we have definitely solved the mystery &quot;of who Jack the Ripper was. &quot;Only non-believers &quot;that want to perpetuate &quot;This is it now - we have unmasked him.&quot; - [Shane] So he's confident. - [Ryan] He's very confident. - [Shane] But he's also and time on this. - I can understand why he's confident. He thought he has it from the beginning, then he goes to a molecular biologist, that guy analyzes it and goes, &quot;Yeah!&quot; I'd be gloating like, a fuckload. Could you imagine that? You just solved one of the because you got confirmation But much to the chagrin of Mr. Edwards, that may not be the case. It turns out that the scientist may have made a critical Summed up, Dr. Louhelainen on both the scarf and in Eddowes' relative This mutation was believed a mutation only found making it very likely it was a match. However, this identification and was not 314.1C, but instead 315.1C, which is a mutation shared of European descent. Basically, this DNA - [Shane] So it went from to &quot;it's one of those million people.&quot; - Basically, it was like, &quot;Oh! &quot;The blood on the scarf &quot;had this very, very rare mutation. &quot;Oh wait, I misnamed the mutation. I&quot;t's actually this other one, which--&quot; - Wasn't he wrong? - Exactly. He hit a wrong keystroke 99% of European people have this mutation. Furthermore, Kosminski's using mitochondrial DNA, using a subtype that is far from unique. Sir Alec Jeffreys, who's regarded as the godfather has said that this evidence &quot;needs to be subjected to peer review. &quot;No actual evidence Further adding fuel to is the fact that Dr. Louhelainen has yet to publish this finding in a peer-reviewed scientific journal and has refused to answer Thus, making it impossible to verify his and Edwards' claims and effectively doing quite the opposite. - How did Edwards react to this? - Could you imagine getting the call? Like, this doctor having and be like, &quot;Oh fuck.&quot; - Hello. - Remember that scarf I told you was a.. - Why yes. The most famous piece of - Yeah, about that. I think my pinky may have hit the five when I was tryin' to hit the four and it turns out it's kind so all that smack you've kind of makes you look like a big fool. - I've wasted my life. - The fourth suspect is the notion that Jack the Ripper A theory that ripperologists This theory was allegedly a hunch of famed inspector Abberline, as well. The idea that all of the police when they should have would explain the Ripper being able to slip by without suspicion. ????? pointed out that a midwife would have sufficient anatomical knowledge and blood on her clothing Though, it should be pointed out that all eyewitness I love this theory. I think it makes sense that a woman would be able to slide through the crowd in a way that all these stupid police, not stupid police but police, would be able to not pick up on it because they're looking Far cry from a midwife covered in blood. - Feels a little too Joss Whedon-y for me. - Like, what if Jack - The fifth suspect is Prince Albert Victor Christian Edward, aka &quot;The Royal Conspiracy.&quot; - You know how they say you never trust someone This guy's got four of 'em. - So that either doubles that Four names, fuck with me. That's what he said. - I'm gonna double it. - I'm gonna cancel it out. - This theory is often scoffed at, but is still perpetuated Prince Edward was known to frequent areas where the victims were found, an activity that led to which some believe drove him to insanity. Some posit that this also resulted in Albert having a and Queen Victoria demanded that everyone who knew of the child to be taken care of. Some believe that the drove him to commit the murders himself. Conspiracy theorists believe because royal aids assisted However, as mentioned before, this theory is mostly as there is no substantial evidence to indicate its credibility. Looking into this, it's pretty clear that the or anybody that the Queen would hire, would be able to be tracked, but I also do think I don't know. I don't think it's that but it is interesting. - I feel like if you've got so many things at your disposal. If you're a queen you I don't know. You'd get away with a lot. Just grab people off the street. - The sixth suspect is famed a theory mainly posed by the successful crime After making millions on her crime novels, Cornwell has devoted her time to the pursuit of Sickert as the Ripper. In 2001, Cornwell spent 2 million pounds buying 32 of Sickert's paintings, letters, and even Sickert's writing that was described by as &quot;monstrous stupidity.&quot; Cornwell went full National by cutting up a painting Aside from stunts, that Sickert was obsessed with Sickert referenced the Ripper even titling one &quot;Jack Cornwell claims one painting of fifth Ripper victim, Mary Kelly. She claims another painting of fourth Ripper victim, Catherin Eddowes. There are also reportedly accounts of Sickert cosplaying as Jack the Ripper. You realize this is before I don't even know if Halloween - [Shane] Are you kiddin' me? They had like Carnivale. They had Venetian masks. They had a whole ton of weird shit back. - [Ryan] You don't find it is dressing up as Jack the Ripper for fun? No holiday. - This just feels like Just let 'em live their life. If they wanna dress up like a pony-- - Okay, this is the A furry is just dressing because you have a sexual thing. - Why are they so muscular all the time? - I don't care about that. Dressing up as a furry animal is a far cry from dressing up as a serial killer. - It's fucking weird. - It's like a horse with pecs, right? - I think you're getting - It's strange. - You just said people were shaming them. - I'm not shaming it, I - Cornwell also shoots down the notion that Sickert's alibi was at the onset of the murders. She cites sketches that place at the time of at least three killings. By the way, anybody could sketch anybody. That means if I drew a sketch of you murdering somebody back in the day, I could show up to the police station and be like, here it is. Here is evidence that killed this woman dressed as a furry. - But I feel like you would do that. - And they'd be like, &quot;You're right. &quot;We've had a lot of reports &quot;that Shane Madej is in fact a furry.&quot; - Slap the cuffs on those hooves. (laughter) - However, the biggest piece of her case is the analysis of forensic Bower identified three and two of the Ripper's letters as coming from a handmade paper run of only 24 possible sheets. Basically, the odds of both writing letters on a batch of paper that only had 24 copies in existence is relatively slim, and while that is undoubtedly it should be reminded that all of the Jack the I think he probably didn't do it, but he is indeed a weirdo. - Yeah, he's a weirdo, but I don't think we need - The seventh suspect is Joseph Barnett, who's particularly suspicious as he actually lived with Mary Kelly, the final Ripper victim. In fact, Barnett may have in East London, making him and capable of navigating back streets. Barnett worked as a fish porter and it's believed that Barnett According to an issue on November 10, 1888, Barnett referred to Mary when she was in fact only a roommate. Barnett also disagreed with and strived to make money &quot;Marie never went on the Some theorize that Barnett to scare Kelly off the streets, which, for a time, actually worked. But when Barnett lost his job, Kelly returned to the Their financial struggles and Barnett also disliked This culminated in one final fight over Kelly bringing home an act that Joseph found unacceptable. This fight apparently got violent. Even a window was broken. Shortly after, Barnett moved out and only 10 days later, Mary Kelly was found After the murder, Barnett was but eventually set free. Having lived there, Barnett would have intimate including how to unlock He was also aware of Kelly's Details from the scene suggest Kelly was killed in her sleep, not by an outsider she invited in. Her clothes were folded by the bed &quot;as though they had been taken and she was wearing a night gown. As a fish porter, Barnett would have crude - [Shane] They posit that because he was a fish porter? - [Ryan] As a known associate of Kelly's, he would be someone allowing him to get close Reportedly, one newspaper of the time stated that Barnett's He also matches the physical description and the psychological profile created of Jack the Ripper by the FBI, and finally, the murders allegedly the last canonical victim. After her death, Barnett to kill anymore now that his lover, who he was trying to keep of - [Shane] I like it. - Pretty good, right? I mean, also to me, most of them, frankly, are very circumstantial. This one, to me, it - seems the closest to actual evidence in that he lived with her, they fought ten days before her death, he was not a fan of prostitution, he tried to keep her off the streets. I could totally see him killing people to try and scare her - The motive here is - For sure. - Out of all of the suspects. - And even the access This is the only one where I feel like there between the possible The eighth and final suspect is the most popular a site devoted to Jack the Ripper and a place for ripperologists to work together to solve the case. The final suspect is James Maybrick. Maybrick's death coincided of the Ripper killings, as he died one year after the murders. Maybrick was an who resided in an estate called the &quot;Battlecrease Some would consider this as many feel the Ripper was a local man who likely wasn't upper-class. However, it should be pointed out that all the murders were It stands to reason that would have the ability and it is also worth mentioning that he would have the benefit of not killing in his own locale. Though, what makes Maybrick is what many consider the biggest that links him to the crimes. That piece of evidence is a under the floorboards A diary that is signed, &quot;I give my name that all know of me, &quot;so history do tell what love &quot;Yours truly, Jack the Ripper.&quot; Also within the diary are reportedly intimate details of the killings. Backing up the diaries that have confirmed the diary seems to roughly match the era The diary was apparently discovered by a scrap metal dealer named Mike Barrett and this is where the story Barrett actually admitted only to recant the statement later, chalking it up to not as he was going through Also shaky is the definitive details of the discovery of the diary. Some sources have it via being handed down by While other sources have or Barrett's associates discovering it and then giving it to him of Barrett being an aspiring author. However, all that aside, if under the floorboards it is a very strong possibility that he was in fact Jack the Ripper. Following this discovery, a gold pocket watch was reported as potential Ripper evidence. The watch apparently contains of the five canonical victims, in addition to the phrase, &quot;I am Jack,&quot; and also &quot;J. Maybrick.&quot; The scratches were analyzed by Dr. Stephen Turgoose, whose studies suggests that the scratches were not done in modern times. Another doctor named Robert Wild at Bristol University's concluded that the scratches &quot;could have been very, very &quot;but it is difficult to be precise.&quot; The watch, which was displayed by a college caretaker is dated 1846 and was purchased for 225 pounds. But given the circus around and Maybrick's far it's understandable to have - I don't know, I liked - Barnett? Yeah, I think I might, too. From just looking at circumstance, it seems like he'd be the most likely. - This guy seems like kind Like, a rich guy who's like, &quot;Ah, I guess I'll go &quot;and murder some people.&quot; - Like, he's treating it Yeah, I could see that. - &quot;And back for some squash.&quot; - I do think these are - Yeah. - And if I had to put money on it, I'd probably say Barnett, too. - All right. - You don't seem as convinced I thought this was really cool. A hidden diary under floorboards. A watch. - I know you don't like to hear this. This is sort of my approach to a lot of these real old true crime ones and sort of a JFK approach. - Oh no, I know what you're going to here. No, please don't say it. - Let it be a mystery. - Oh my.. - We'll never know. We'll just never know. - You'd be a very, very bad judge. - Why? - Let it be a mystery (pounding of table). (laughter) Court is adjourned. For over 100 years, the has continued to fascinate, confound, and infuriate the public. Perhaps one day we will have Or perhaps this famous case will be yet another victim to time. But, for now, the age old Who was Jack the Ripper? The case remains unsolved. - Saucy Jack, truly saucy. Saucy guy. - Kind of a douche. - Well, I mean, you could say that about most murderers, right? - Yeah, they're all douches. - You ever think that was - &quot;You're a douchebag.&quot; Slash. (laughter) - All right. (faint, perplexed music)