A Man Ate 2 Pounds of Licorice Candy Everyday For 3 Weeks. This Is What Happened To His Organs. VP is a 46 year old man, presenting to the Paramedics tell the admitting nurse that they an abnormal heart rhythm. His heart stopped beating in the ambulance. You see, VP was a construction worker. When he was younger, there were some recreational a needle. This habit was a major part of his early adult Years ago, VP went in for a check up. He had been clean for a while, but a routine that progressively damages the liver and is VP vaguely remembered a time when he used he was still young enough at that time, that liver, yet. VP kicked his habits later in life, and most He didn't really have a healthy balanced 3 weeks ago, VP switched from eating fruit-flavored He was already eating several bags a day of the licorice. A few days ago, VP had noticed some muscle He told his family about it, but no one really Must be from all that hard construction labor, One day, during lunch, VP didn't feel right. As he tries to eat his food, he gasps. Immediately his body starts shaking uncontrollably, On the ground now, he's no longer shaking, Someone close by realizes that something terrible as they call for 911, and VP's brought to Doctors realize it's been at least half Paramedics had to resuscitate him multiple Those 30 minutes when his heart wasn't beating, enough blood. Wasn't getting enough oxygen-- meaning, permanently damaged. Neurology consult finds that VP's pupils When light is shined into someone's eyes, This is a reflex to adapt to the amount of When someone's pupils are sluggishly reactive wrong in the brain. And in VP, something was wrong in his brain. Doctors put a little pressure above his eyes They push against pain points on his fingernails. But there was no response. All of these together, after cardiac arrest, transferred in to the intensive care unit. A blood test reveals that VP has hypokalemia. Hypo meaning low. Kale referring to potassium, or more formally table of elements And emia meaning presence in blood. Low potassium presence in blood. This was paired with a large number of white after presenting to the emergency room. Both of these gives doctors some clues as VP ate 2 pounds of licorice everyday in the But doctors didn't know that, and even if Further exam of the blood test reveals that down. Liver cells are wasting away now, and they're At 4 hours after presenting to the emergency shutdown was only getting worse. Is this hepatitis C, actually doing liver Muscle proteins, are also found floating around away. This could affect the heart, but that wouldn't way for those proteins to collect in the heart. It wouldn't be the reason why his liver's proteins. But how about the kidneys? The kidneys act like a net to filter the blood. If muscle proteins are collecting and gunking apart the kidneys. Iron and oxygen from those muscle proteins damage. VP's heart stopped beating while he was It stopped oxygen from going in to his brain, permanent damage. So it doesn't look like hepatitis C is making And then his muscles started melting away Those proteins are now ripping apart and shutting All of this bringing us back to hypokalemia. Low potassium presence in blood. Potassium, like Sodium above it on the periodic organs to do things. When the muscles contract, they need a signal. Sodium is mostly outside cells. Potassium is mostly inside cells. When sodium rushes in, it signals to the muscle On the other hand, potassium promotes muscle A lot of potassium present means your muscles Too little potassium means your muscles won't The heart is a muscle. If it won't stop contracting because there then it starts to shake in place, not actually VP felt a cramp in his calf. Potassium wasn't there to signal muscle But this also affected the blood vessels, because they're muscles too. So parts of the muscle, starve of oxygen and If potassium is low in VP, then it means that But where from? You could lose potassium from a stomach movement, But VP didn't have any movements up recently, that could mean laxative use, but it didn't You couldn't cry out potassium in large meaning it must have been removed by his kidneys to the emergency room. But how does this relate to the high white Just above the kidneys are the adrenal glands. Ad from Latin meaning towards or nearby, and Gland being an organ that releases hormones, the body. Adrenal glands produce adrenal-ine, adrenaline, to a stress stimulus. But in the setting of stress, those adrenal is cortisol. The interesting thing about cortisol, is that also made in the adrenal glands. They're actually all made from cholesterol, Aldosterone helps regulate blood pressure Because it's shaped so similarly, they both Actually, cortisol is 100 times more attracted Meaning when someone is stressed and cortisol something to the kidneys. But what, exactly? Well, aldosterone increases blood pressure When you are dehydrated, aldosterone binds take back sodium from the urine. The interesting thing about sodium is that In this small science experiment, I take salty meaning only water can flow in and out of I submerge the tube in a pool of distilled And you'll see that water flows in to the That water follows sodium. So by telling the kidneys to take back sodium, back into the body too. But sodium has a plus one charge. If it's pulled it out, then the remaining Urine can't be electrically charged, so But what could that be? Well, potassium has a plus one charge. And so aldosterone forces a take back of sodium, to balance everything out. But if cortisol has 100 times more affinity are high in VP's body, then it means he's And this isn't cortisol's only function. It also limits inflammation so that the immune This means it tells white blood cells to not them to float around in the blood, increasing Both of these explaining all of VP's problems, Cortisol comes out in physiologic stress. And VP isn't stressed. Hes eating several pounds of candy everyday. Meaning, there's something in that candy, As the hours pass in the hospital, doctors has large amounts of potassium in it. But at 12 hours after presenting to the emergency urine, because they've completely shut down. If he has low potassium presence in blood, intravenously. But that won't reverse his brain damage. It won't restart his liver and his kidneys. And it might not be enough to bring him back. How much potassium did VP lose, exactly? Well, to bring his levels back up to normal, That is 10 and a half of these ultra-concentrated And these vials need to be diluted. Remember that potassium signals muscle relaxation. So if there's too much of it, your muscles If 1 milliequivalent of potassium chloride half grams of this potassium chloride to get Bananas and oranges are made of potassium humans can only absorb 40% of the potassium If 1 banana has 420 milligrams of potassium needed to eat at least 100 bananas worth of And that doesn't count the fact that bananas shifts potassium in to cells and out of the more than that. But he's unconscious, and you don't give because they couldn't chew on it, and they so they would choke if it happened. In the licorice plant where VP's candy was is 2 sugars chained to a larger ring. Doesn't this look familiar? In humans, those 2 sugars are cleaved off, acid. The body doesn't want cortisol hanging around it down to cortisone, which doesn't bind Cortisone doesn't force sodium back in, But because glycyrrhetinic acid is so similar and blocks cortisol from getting broken down. And when it isn't broken down, it hangs of these problems. If someone eats a little licorice candy, or gonna be ok. But over several days, eating more and more the tea, will confuse the kidneys, because telling it to reabsorb sodium in, in exchange It's not just a little potassium. It's hundreds of bananas worth of potassium. The resulting hypokalemia is enough to prevent Muscle starts to necrose, and proteins spill The heart can't relax and it starts beating doesn't pump blood anymore. No more blood gets to the brain, causing VP Causing him to collapse suddenly. And as the minutes pass without blood circulation, if he's resuscitated and his heart is back is worsened still by his kidneys getting ripped Actual licorice candy, is kind of hard to Most of what you can buy at the grocery is acid in it, because they're flavored and So it does make me wonder where exactly did The problem with licorice, is that the glycyrrhetinic It's lipophilic. Lipo meaning fat and philic meaning affinity So it hangs around fat tissue, distributing Its half life in humans, that is the time the body, is up to 30 hours. But it also recirculates in bile from the Then it traverses the intestines, only to around in the body, as it wrecks this havoc. VP's potassium level was brought back up in the hospital. His blood pressure started to normalize after But the uneven pupils. The sluggish reactivity to light. The absent reflexes. VP didn't have a good prognosis, as doctors Comfort measures were placed, and at 32 hours passed with family at his side. If you are eating actual licorice candy and be very careful with it. Licorice is still an herbal medicine and it's cortisol, an anti-inflammatory hormone, in With any medicine, don't treat it like it's You wouldn't eat gummy vitamins like gummy medicine like regular candy either. It can all take a very terrible turn very Thanks for watching. Take care of yourself. And Be well.