- The less you give a shit what other people think about you, the more magnetic you are. And it's an interesting of giving a fuck, you respond to you differently to what other people say, think, and do, and it makes you so much more magnetic. Now in this video, I'm exactly how to do that. I think this video will completely change your energy from the inside out if you simply apply what I share with you in this video. Now, have you ever noticed that the more you let go of caring what other people think that they actually either come around, respect you, or appreciate you. But have you noticed what other people think about you, what their perspective is, the more you want someone love, or support, the more and the less they actually like you, validate you, or whatever? That's because there is an attachment creates resistance and attachment also displays Now, there's a direct correlation between that of neediness If you have non-neediness, that's what makes you magnetic. The degree to which you is the degree to which and validation and support So this really is about a game, not a game, but this is about an energy of letting go of the neediness. Letting go of neediness. Now, a lot of the information in this video comes from that of the books by Mark Manson who has written the book The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck. And it's mainly, it's about understanding that when you give a fuck about what other people say, you're putting them on a pedestal, you're making them very important, but what ends up happening abandoning yourself in to get other people to like He also talks about is the root of all like the energy that is literally repelling And what the book is really about, it's about realizing that you have to give a fuck about something, but just don't give a that don't actually serve you. So really what the book's on your own sense of value and This is something that I years ago, but always kind of rejected because I thought it was like, I didn't understand it completely. I was like, well, beliefs create reality so whatever you believe to be true is reflected back to you. This whole value thing, I What values are is values make up your sense of identity, and values are the Now, one of the strongest is to remain consistent to And we all have these subconscious values that we think are important whether we realize it or not. And these subconscious came from childhood. So in childhood, if our needs which many of us had that maybe even it's not that necessarily, it could be, but that's a perspective that To me, everything in life other than the meaning we give it, and we, many times, took that happened to us on autopilot until we become aware of it. So if we didn't get validated growing up, we may now crave and need to validate us. And when it talks about giving a fuck, if we give a fuck that we want and then we start putting and approval on a pedestal, because we're leading in life with wanting other people's approval and validation to help fulfill our own that wasn't met when we were kids. So this is about becoming aware of the virtues we are living by. So for a long time, I that really had me in needy energy. That really had me feeling powerless, hard for me to set boundaries, and that was because I was living by virtues and values that were outdated. Those virtues and values were me that on one hand the thing that I wanted the most, that one thing that I really valued more than anything else their validation and approval. Because growing up, I felt like I didn't receive validation or approval, I then searched it in everybody else, I'd search it in the people, I would search it for friends. And in a weird twisted way, we tend to try to recreate that feel familiar. So for me, for a long someone in my life that was similar to my ex-stepmom who was mentally, physically So I would attract people into my life that had that kind of manipulation energy, that also, in a weird, twisted way, I would feel safe around that energy. There's something about it because somebody else telling I remember when my ex-stepmom and my dad divorced her and I remember I was, all of a sudden, I had all this freedom, I was allowed to have friends, I was allowed to eat enough food, I was allowed to go to school activities, I was allowed to like, I wasn't locked outside working out all day, I was able to do a lot of things I wasn't able to do before, and there was something about that to me that felt scary. There was something about that that felt like there was anxiety. In that moment, I remember even though prior to being I was normally locked we would sneak inside the house One of us would have the remote with the finger on the so that if somebody came home, we'd push the previous channel button so they didn't think we were watching TV and then we'd throw the remote and then run outside and continue working. That's what we had to do if we ever wanted to watch TV. Even though we had to live and stress, there was something about it that felt safe. And in a weird way, growing up then after my ex-stepmom left my life, I would recreate that, not subconsciously, because one of my values to somebody else. So it was either in a jealous girlfriend or it was in a manager at Nordstrom that was the same there were these archetypes that I attract to reflect back that And that's what we do in our lives, we recreate familiar childhood dynamics in our present day right now based on the values and that we had growing up. So if we really care certain things growing up we will then search for it on the outside. But normally we'll attract because that feels familiar, for people not to be able support, whatever it is. But the main part of the your life more than anything else is becoming aware of the values And for me, I was living by other people's validation or approval so I'd be trying to earn that. I'd live by people-pleasing other people. I was trying to feel significant by making YouTube videos that that I had all these followers that didn't believe in me like, look, I did it. You said I wouldn't do it, I did it. Trying to prove people in It was like this feeling not worthy because I valued other approval, and significance so much because I felt like I didn't Now, what really changed as a people pleaser or a I really focused on there's this way of looking nice guys, that will if you see it like this, that is that growing up, the empath is somebody that can feel other people's energies. Now, one of the reasons the or the nice guy can feel is because growing up, that Maybe mom or dad physically And from that, we then decided, oh, I have to be a certain Maybe the reason they're is because something I did wrong. Maybe mom and dad divorced We then abandon ourselves, the internal, to then please the external so that the internal can feel safe. So then there's this And normally when it about the wrong things, I it stems down to an abandonment wound, of feeling abandoned growing or some parental figure and then making a choice, a decision that there's something wrong with me, I'm broken, or believing And from that internal decision, then deciding, well maybe I add value to all my friends, I don't have any boundaries, I try to fix everybody in my life, maybe then I'm good enough. And it's saying if other, other, so there's either the self and other, the self is it's feeling inside your own frame, other is everything else. And what happens is we stop and we start looking to the external to feel safe and validated. And what ends up happening in that dynamic is we abandon ourself for other. And that becomes a pattern, that becomes something that becomes something that we're used to, so then we continue to abandon ourselves to make everybody else happy, which, of course, depolarizes which, of course, is overcompensating and showing the neediness because then it's needing approval in order to feel safe. And the thing that we've done is we've made it very important what other people think, other people's validation, love, support, significance, instead of what we think. And the answer, the transformation that we experience is when we stop giving a shit and what other, everyone else thinks and we start more so valuing ourself and our own virtues. So what I did is I let go of wanting validation and I started to become aware of it. 90% of all transformation is awareness. As I became aware of that, I then started to live Those virtues included vulnerability, vulnerability, the ability the ability to express to express what's real, that became one of my top virtues. So if I had trouble setting it became easier because even if it's uncomfortable, I express it. If I was afraid of being physically, like, if I was normally afraid of I would then realize, wait, who I am as somebody that is vulnerable. Because the thing is, is when you have shame from childhood you believe you're broken, you try to hide that vulnerability because you don't want But the key is going knowing that yes, you could get rejected, but from expressing the real you, at least you're being the real you. Then you'll find that when you don't get rejected nearly The other one I live by is authenticity, Being the most authentic By moving up those values of authenticity, vulnerability, courage, adventurous, all these values that I used to not really value as much, it completely changed my sense of identity because then way lower on the list, I'd be lying if I said there was not that the the validation or approval, if I didn't care at all about that, that I would just wear and run around like a dog or something. Actually, I don't know if I would do that, that's not the most but I just wouldn't what other people think but I don't think that's authentic 'cause at some level, do still care what people think. However, it's not nearly as much, not nearly as much as it used to be. And I'm more so expressive, I wanna be more so expressive even if that means some level of rejection or some level of not being approved of or something, I now value being authentic over that. And now the more magnetic you will be, the more you let go of the neediness of needing other people to or needing other people's by not abandoning yourself the values, the virtues, the the more magnetic you will be. That is the key to this Now, there is a video right here on the five secrets to letting go that make you attractive AF. It's one of my most powerful videos. If you haven't seen this video, watch it right now to wire this all in. In this video, I wanna to letting go that will and that will completely And when you start applying