"You're a witch! Admit you're a witch!" screams to a kitchen table for over two years. unaware that they're about to be ordered to do the they don't have a choice. Cruelty is all they evil. where acts of sadism are a daily occurrence. violence is the mother of all the children, a mother in all the annals of American criminality. it scaled the outer limits of human Her name is Theresa Jimmie Francine et's look at what happened to She was born Theresa Jimmie Francine Cross Her dad, Jim, was an assistant cheese maker at worked at a lumberyard, operating a pencil-making and two older step siblings as well, William and Theresa was known in the neighborhood as being when at her mother's side. So, when her mom local store, with Theresa in tow, Theresa's world lying on the ground in Theresa's arms. On March 6, Theresa would never be the same again. sell the house. Theresa and her sister's but it wasn't the poverty that troubled Theresa, the space that had been taken up with her mother's jumped into the arms of the first guy she a man five years her senior. On September married and she became Theresa Jimmie Sanders. a small apartment in North Highlands, California. The marriage was not one made in They'd dated just a matter of weeks before they us part" bit about to become very significant. almost pathologically possessive of Clifford, not But despite not getting along, on July 16, 1963, At the beginning, the new addition but Theresa's possessiveness soon reared its ugly of the days screaming at each other. Clifford's had Theresa not become pregnant again. they had to leave their one-room apartment Money was always an issue. Theresa and as well as his alleged infidelity, and on June 22, Rather than do his duty of taking care with his friends all day. When he arrived home about him being unfaithful to her, which she in the face. She filed a report against him for dropped when she refused to sign the papers. ignited again. It was Clifford's birthday. didn't want him to go out drinking. She was sure Whether he really was cheating is not certain, but her. He packed his bags, swearing to never return. Theresa picked up a rifle and shot him, Chief Walter Froehlich was one of the self-defense. "I grabbed a gun to make him keep Theresa was arrested and taken to the Sacramento with one of her relatives. On July 7, 1964, "Clifford Sanders, 23, was slain yesterday morning reported the bullet apparently grazed off In the subsequent trial, Theresa's attorney drunk who'd often used his fists to settle of the people who knew the couple. According On the stand, Clifford's sister, Lydia Hansen, problem and that Clifford was the victim. She said testified that Theresa would rather kill Clifford told the jury, "I believe with all my heart that Deputy District Attorney Donald Dorfman wanted that Theresa had killed Clifford in cold but because she was pathologically jealous and Robert Zarick, said his client had only and her unborn child from an abusive man. as the first witness for the prosecution, he said killed. This contradicted Theresa's story of her that it was highly likely Clifford was shot as if trying to protect himself, which would Theresa took the stand on her own behalf the jury with her stories about her violent Theresa also took the stand in her defense. said Theresa had been an anxious wife, In his closing remarks, Dorfman said don't told the jury, "Not every murderer can look like but that doesn't overcome the fact she maliciously Despite the prosecution having a strong 1964. She was, after all, pregnant, and there was have sympathized with Theresa at a time in history hindsight do we now perhaps conclude that Meanwhile, Theresa was about to embark on a crimes so intense, her manipulative behavior it's hard to believe her tearful tales in court On March 16, 1965, Theresa, now a Sheila Gay Sanders. This bundle of joy that came too, but that's a story we'll get to in due time. baby Sheila, to say the least. While pregnant, to the local American Legion Hall to drown her attractiveness, and she certainly had a way with manipulative, and possibly endowed with certain is, when her good looks would fade in the her bitterness would become a deadly malignancy. session at the Legion Hall when she bumped into was insecure and needy of love, and Theresa was swimming accident two years earlier, which he met Theresa, who, unlike many women, didn't finding a man who wasn't as mobile to her was a match made in heaven. the relationship. So, when the opportunity despite her having two kids, he grabbed soon rented a small apartment together. Theresa for a man in a wheelchair, and at night, they'd but she soon started to take advantage of the fact She left him at home almost every night of the her live-in babysitter. She'd come home each behavior. Worse, after a few months of this, he one of the friends he'd really depended on contemplate just how cold she'd become. she packed her bags, filling them with many of In hindsight, he was probably fortunate the After all, he could have ended up like Clifford. man to move in with. On one of her many drunken Marine Corps. Yet again, the relationship seemed to him, and he, similarly entranced, returned Within a few months of dating, she was pregnant But this was the era of the Vietnam War. and soon after he was hit in the shoulder by he returned to the battlefield and was shot hospital. He avoided death yet again when a few he was crossing a bridge when it was blown up, injuries were more serious this time, and he weeks recovering at the Oakland Naval Hospital. wedding vows to each other. By this time, she was Marline Knorr, was born on September 27, 1966, and be considered a curse rather than a miracle. but as you've seen, children more or less got which mostly included drinking and meeting new and on September 15, 1967, she gave Robert on December 31, 1968, she bore him his Now they were a family of five, a girl and Howard and Sheila from the husband And Theresa was often left to take care of all he wasn't in any kind of shape for action on as a burial escort - when a soldier escorts place. This took Robert all over the world. but Theresa didn't see it that way. When he was sure he was cheating on her. It seems the Clifford fired up again with Robert. She was The jealousy hadn't reared its head with Estell all the time taking care of the kids, but with with Clifford, came back with a vengeance. the man she distrusted. She took her anger For the slightest transgression like talking them to sit on the floor and not move for an be met with fierce retribution. But these It would get far, far worse in the future. so she never quite reached the brutality she Robert grew tired of constantly being told he things and left. Not to be outdone, Theresa cruelty. Robert was flabbergasted. He'd never the two got back together and promised Despite Robert trying to make things work, in their relationship. But about a year after The judge who had presided over Theresa's murder Theresa was pregnant again at the time, and on Theresa "Terry" Marie Knorr, came into the world... So far, you've seen signs of the evil that Theresa gotten started yet. Theresa's bitterness was about kids, she was a broken woman... She was angry at the and the only people around she could make made attempts to see them, but Theresa did married again and he and Theresa had no contact even though she didn't want him near the kids. she soon found another man. The two wasted again proving she still had her charms. railway worker. Like with Estell, she saw in him a with Robert was choosing a man endowed with too her tantrums, or with her drinking. Ronald would and after a brief period of happiness, Theresa went out to binge-drink. She'd come home late, Ronald did at least have the sense to get out stating that Theresa had been the same judge presided over the proceedings. after that drinking at the American Legion Hall, editor at the Sacramento Union newspaper, Chet be jealous. As usual, she'd agreed to a fast-track she discovered old Chet had a very particular He had nudes posted all over his bedroom walls the offer. Theresa wondered what she'd gotten really good with the kids. He didn't mind staying Chet. Some nights they'd sit in the living stories about monsters from Greek mythology. and had always considered them to be a ball them with her lovers, but she now resented the she liked her. As was her way, she soon became affections. It angered her to see Suesan so happy. wedding, Theresa filed for divorce. It was the of her dissolved marriages as well as her murder marking this the last time he'd have to deal with So, there she was, the mother of six children, It was at that point that something changed in her at least, would later say that it seemed like she had given up hope. She'd always been a pretty her and now she was about to become an evil mom. weight and looked much older. She seemed to new man. Gone were the days of spending all of her time at home, drinking day and night. The children which was virtually impossible in their small like an undetonated bomb. It was only a matter Theresa Jr., who often went by Terry, said that this time. She said if she tried to hug her or to get something, but if the kids stayed out of being selfish, unloving children. Terry said because they were part of the men that Theresa The two youngest boys, William and Robert, and that the kids were never allowed outside. removed the telephone so no one could contact the everyone was going to be unhappy. Their but it was about to get even worse. the world festered as she sat drinking on children. To some extent, the kids weren't aware that they were fed properly, played games, and an insane asylum basically, but what's worse Terry said on one occasion, her mom was drunk, and She put it to Terry's head, threatening to kill intense fear, and for months after, Terry But the depravity was still in its nascent she forced the other children to participate then to feel guilt as well as fear. grew thinner and thinner. One day, Theresa Suesan was a witch. Chet Harris, whom she now Suesan into a witch on one of those nights Suesan likely could not have fully understood be loved, as any child does. As she turned into woman, Theresa's resentment toward her grew even manipulate men were now just a memory, and her At one point, Suesan actually managed to escape while she was running through the streets and she told doctors and later a child protection to her and the other children. The authorities shame, they believed Theresa when she said Suesan Suesan, now frightened out of her wits, told the prey over to the predator, they Theresa was going to make Suesan pay for what children participate directly in the punishment. even more. To ensure she never ran out of the home point, the older kids were no longer attending eighth grade. When they did attend school, they one of the kids later said that if they missed the saw the children, but rarely did anyone get a the place was filthy and stank of urine. they stayed home all day, every day, never Theresa handcuffed Suesan to the bed. She ordered like child soldiers on lookout duty. During the went on for years. Suesan spent so long handcuffed Her siblings hated that they were forced to but it was better it was happening to they had little contact with the outside world, According to the surviving kids, after broken. She stopped eating. She was But when she broke, Theresa said she was no to sleep unshackled. The other kids were so managed at last to get a full night's rest. Theresa had suddenly realized how cruel she was. things got even worse. once good looks of hers seemed to be transmuting than accept this as one of the inevitabilities you drink and smoke and eat junk food all day, of Suesan's spells. Suesan, said Theresa, was up making her ugly. Handcuffing her to tables teach Suesan a lesson she wouldn't forget. one day when they heard a gunshot. Theresa holding a gun. It was the same one she on the floor, blood issuing from her back. Theresa to take Suesan to the bathroom and put her in the so Theresa stemmed the blood flow herself. leaving the bullet in Suesan's body. For the next by Suesan's bedside, feeding her tidbits Suesan eventually regained her strength, The family moved into a new apartment in north in a dismal-looking trailer park on Sacramento's prostitution, and rundown motels. It was the ideal usually resulted in people turning the other "I knew they were weird, but I didn't know they that woman," a neighbor who did speak to her would talked fast, without any commas or periods." argument, but nothing as serious as anyone being took her violence to the extreme again. The object argument and the next thing, Theresa had picked up Suesan wasn't grievously injured this time, but there'd be an attack she wouldn't wake up from. and it was time she moved out and started a life let her go, but she did. She told Suesan she could to remove the bullet from Suesan's body. Theresa to bite her. Given what you've heard so far, insane. But this shows that she wasn't. She knew The home surgery was to take place on the kitchen environment. Theresa's tools to remove the bullet going to be a botch job of the highest order. As an anesthetic, this incalculably unloving capsules, which is an antipsychotic medication, While this is never advised in a medical knocked out. After that, Theresa went to Theresa didn't perform this ad-hoc surgery But whether it was Robert or Theresa who performed it in good shape. It's believed she likely had Sepsis can be deadly, especially when it's not that Theresa did give Suesan antibiotics, worse. The kids later said the whites of her eyes but this was jaundice brought on by the sepsis. of surviving, but only if she was rushed happen. Suesan lay in bed becoming more and more marks all over Suesan's back, which would In short, Suesan was a wreck. This was the result And this time, it didn't look like she would her daughter medical help, but to finish her off. and wrapped it around her daughter's arms and Theresa packed all of Suesan's clothes and other and Robert to carry Suesan out to the car. They into the Sierra Nevada, and pulled off when they and Robert were told to carry their sister down followed. When they put Suesan down, Theresa They walked back to the car, but didn't turn Suesan was found the next day, but due to the made and Suesan became a Jane Doe, case #4873/84. said the victim was between 18 and and weighed about 115 pounds (52kgs). The and while the injuries she had sustained were smoke inhalation. That meant that when Theresa Suesan had still been alive. was finally dead. But Theresa's run The boys said there was a strange atmosphere in was gone. In a normal world, the remaining but this wasn't a normal world. It was a perverted Their minds had been so warped over the years Sheila, now 20 years old, didn't really understand never been shown love. She lived in continual her that she'd have to sell her body to make Sheila knew it was wrong. She absolutely didn't In a twisted way, she soon discovered there pocketing thousands of dollars a month, showered Sheila's behavior was exemplary. This, said for their hard working mothers. The boys looked on Sheila was now being given. Theresa, being understood the merits of a divide-and-conquer among her kids, creating ill will among Alas, Sheila's time in the spotlight of her They got into an argument one night pregnant and not being honest about it. She with a venereal disease and that she had somehow When Sheila screamed back, reminding Theresa seeing as she was essentially a slave for her mom, the boys had ever seen. She took her paddle and and shoved her into the closet. Theresa told no matter how much Sheila cried, and that she was despite it being very hot in there. Terry, said, "She wanted Sheila to confess. That As people subjected to torture often do, Sheila been accused of. Theresa then accused her of and prolonged Sheila's time in the closet, where days in the hot closet with no water, Sheila was time, later said she heard her sister saying The boys later testified that on the third day closet. They didn't know it at the time, but opened the door, she was lying in the fetal move her though. Instead, Sheila's body lay in of decomposition was too much to tolerate. next. Theresa told them to put Sheila's body all drove up Interstate 80 in the direction of where they stopped near a field and A few hours later, a man named Elmer Barber When he looked inside, he saw a body in a County Sheriff's Department would later make the The cause of death was noted as undetermined. was still one left - Terry. And she was terrified been crueler to her girls, and all the children erratically. The house still smelled awful. No decomposition. Theresa feared the smell would waft So she decided to take the most reasonable course 26, 1986, she covered parts of the trailer in essentials, she ordered Terry to ignite the fluid. the flames began to spread across the trailer, who quickly arrived to put out the fire. Much of including the closet where Sheila had died. out - Theresa ran. She got out of Sacramento, They weren't exactly kids at this point anyway. but Theresa wasn't able or willing to make them go from the family. William, who was 24, had enough her. Terry, the last remaining girl, was only 16, ID, so passed as 21. Only Robert, 19, stayed None of them breathed a word about their murdered they kept the years of torture a gotten away with the murders had Robert Short on cash, he walked into Red's Bar and waving a gun in the air tried to rob the but an altercation of some kind took was shot. After Robert was convicted and given around and so she moved to Salt Lake City, Utah. acting as the woman's caretaker. also then living in Salt Lake City. She'd But then on October 28, 1993, she got the watching TV, she phoned the hotline for the the cases shown weren't related to her, it still From there, Terry was told to contact detectives dumped, and this time, the police listened to her. California Sheriff's Office met with her and unbelievable it sounded, he was hesitant was able to corroborate it with the evidence. Jane Doe's to the sisters Terry was talking about. police had begun "unraveling a tale of domestic The public was incensed, especially as Terry she was making it up. In a separate news report, that the people she reported it to thought her At the start of November 1993, investigators two brothers, William and Robert, who'd helped William was in Sacramento, working at a for the Vegas robbery at the Nevada County Jail. to talk about their deceased sisters or anything but both eventually confessed to playing a part in investigators in Salt Lake City told the was likely in their city due to her applying for days before she had been arrested on a DUI. Sheriff's Office flew out to Salt Lake to the form. He waited until night fell and knocked on immediately placed in handcuffs. Their timing was packing up her belongings to move to another city. only telling them she wanted a lawyer. and murder. After being arraigned in Salt where she was charged with two counts of murder, multiple murder and murder by torture, which After pleading not guilty, she was sent to J. Richard Couzens who'd read out the charges also agreed to testify against his mom in exchange all the charges against him were dropped. turning against her, decided she wasn't guilty in order to avoid the death penalty. Theresa to two life sentences, saying her While the boys did help her get rid of the brutal torture made them victims, too. Robert, who years to be served concurrently with his robbery and ordered to undergo therapy. Both men would Sadly, Terry died of a heart attack in 2011 various TV programs in an attempt to explain what "What kind of mother would do that?" she of person am I going to be for the "Believe me," she said, "I've asked myself a run." All the kids said the same thing. they just didn't have the ability to run. sentence. She'll be eligible for parole in 2027, it's likely she'll never walk the Now go and watch the "Most Hated Killer in to understand how minds can be controlled,