Hello Internet! Welcome to Game Theory and the final part our story to a close by talking about the the timeline, the part that I've been dreading The moment where we're finally forced to come to explain what the heck we were watching The last two episodes have been about death, multiple children, the death of the franchise literally burn it all down. Today's episode, though, and the current end The return of old characters in new forms, entering the next era of its story. But before we jump to the timeline, due to any live Talk-Back after this episode. I know I promised one. I was really excited about it, but I just all the other guests' schedules. That said, I still do plan on doing one over Just make sure that you're subscribed and you're just watching our community tab for happen. And now, without any further ado, we finally story. Fazbear Entertainment was dead. All debts had been paid, all assets redistributed, Even the memories of the horrors that had public consciousness. The people were gone, too. William was dead. Henry was gone. A whole generation of young Emily's in Aftons pizzeria, all of them collateral damage to Everyone the company had ever touched was Well, all except one. Clara Afton. She'd been there in the early days, back when They'd had the perfect home, a thriving business, But shortly after their youngest son died, William had become distant, lost in his work, She had watched him change from this irritatingly with to a drunken monster struggling to hold reach out to him in those desperate days, For her sake she had to leave the relationship. And from there she largely faded into obscurity. A mystery from William's past, a footnote She wanted to leave that part of her life She'd tried to move forward, never wanting A time defined by mistakes and broken promises. But then the paperwork started to arrive. As Fazbear Entertainment began to close as flooded with notifications, requests, obligations. She had been there since the beginning, helping and now as a shareholder and sole living member of both Afton Robotics and Fazbear Entertainment Memories of this past life that she had long Looking at the blueprints, the contracts, The regrets of a happy family that had been William had always been brilliant. That's what had attracted her to him in the But he'd also been too blinded by obsession He was too jealous, too petty, too unable But now holding the paperwork that contained it was her turn. She was holding the power. This was her chance. And one thought resonated in her head. I will put them back together. I will put them all back together. She would be the one to rebuild this family, to reclaim the kids that Fazbear had stolen But how? Looking at William's work now laid out before Collecting remnant, robotic humanoids, digital The pieces were all in place. They were just scattered, fragmented. It was almost like there were too many ideas It was such an important idea that she reiterated THERE WERE TOO MANY IDEAS GOING IN TOO MANY That said there had to be a way to save it She just needed to put it all back together. But how? To rebuild her family. She would first need to rebuild the franchise With ownership over the characters, their name. She converted the corporation back to an LLC, usually family owned. The irony was fitting. From there she would need remnant and lots Remnant was the key. Clearly, in the later years of his life, William and Rentals as a remnant farm, sending robots bits of the stuff here and there. But clearly it wasn't enough. He had, what, like four, maybe five animatronics No, it was a decent idea. But to get the remnant they required, it needed Dozens, hundreds of animatronics all out there, But to do that would require help, something William had kept everything in-house. His obsession with control limited him. Clara, though she wasn't nearly that precious. A plan like this required partners, people So she contacted a midsize delivery company of all the original animatronics. And with meal delivery apps being all the Order one to celebrate your birthday, your How about a 4th of July picnic? We'll invite Liberty Chica and 4th of July She would make sure that they made skins for Chocolate Bonnie's for Easter Shamrock Freddy's and thus the Fazbear Funtime Service was born. Was it ridiculous? Absolutely. Was it a sellout? No doubt. It was exactly the sort of thing that William to get enough remnant. Normally, the novelty of ordering an animatronic but with new skins for new holidays. Suddenly you had yourself an animatronic perfect It would keep people hooked. It would keep them ordering the latest and to offer and all the while they'd be collecting In a word, it was brilliant. There was just one problem with it. No one trusted the Fazbear name; the company's No one would want to hire animatronics from children. Nothing kills a party quite like the threat So she needed to find a way to discredit the She needed to win back the public's affections, of their childhoods. She needed a game. Multiple games in fact. Struggling game developers were a dime a dozen between shifts at the Dollar General. So she found one, Steve. Just picked him out of obscurity. The right mix of desperate and doofus willing bucks. And he fell right in line as expected, delivering like Mangle's Quest, Balloon Boy's Air Adventure, Bad gameplay with even worse graphics. But hey, they got the job done. People were suddenly talking about the clues hidden lore. They were actively making jokes about dead Her husband's twisted history of serial murder Drew mystery to be solved. The plan had worked. Fready Fazbear was suddenly more popular than Things were going shockingly well. Her takeover and reboot of the franchise was Suddenly infused with cash, she built the Pizzaplex. William had always been so visionary, but He was careful to a fault. Not her though, she knew that this latest It needed to be flashy. It needed to be a palace for children, a place latest in Fastbear products. So with a steady supply of remnant flowing The stage was set. It was time to get to her real goal, literally March 2035. The first was obvious, the crying child, her get ripped away from her. She'd seen down in his bunker that William humans using animatronic technology. And so that's exactly what she would do. Rebuild her boy from the ground up using robotic striped shirt, even down to small details on his left knee. William's research had even found ways of food, making them virtually indistinguishable He would never have any idea of what he actually The only things that could possibly ruin the systems. If something were to say, interfere with the some sort of a core reboot to his hard drive Then yeah, he would be exposed. But otherwise, to the outside world, he was She worked down in the bowels of the pizza But it was one thing to build him was another He died so young, so early in their history no documentation that you could just download So bit by bit, she trained him, forcing him In a corner of the room she even made a makeshift days. The family recreated: two brothers, a sister, table. The one in charge, the one in command, the But this progress was admittedly slower than At first, he could only communicate through and crude letters. But bit by bit, images of his past life started bears and faces, birthday parties, all for Gregory was alive. As the robot boy embraced her she felt a warmth This. This was the joy that she'd been working towards. This was what it was all for. Her son, back in her arms again. The plan was working. She had to keep going. Next was William. If the family was truly going to be put together, And she knew exactly where he was. In the ruins of that old Freddy Fazbear's In fact, that's specifically why she insisted it's the best place to hide what her true Digging through the wreckage, she found him. He was right where she thought he'd be. Seeing the putrid shell of the Springtrap for. The rotting corpse of William Afton was disgusting. Scorched flesh fuzed into the fur lining, a smell that reeked of burned carbon and bloody He was no longer flesh, he was just the tangled human. How far this brilliant man had fallen. It was clear that her work was cut out for Afton was practically lifeless. The man may not have been able to die, but And his body would need a lot of reconstruction, were the top priority, maybe pulled from their She'd have to see if they had any spare Bonnie In the meantime, though, she threw the husk pod infused with aerosolized remnant to help But more important than recovering his body In his current state, he was comatose, an Severe brain damage starts at temperatures And years of repeated fires had burned his Gone was the brilliant, frustrating mind that But she had a plan. Unlike her darling boy Gregory, Afton had Fundamentally, the brain is only a series So why couldn't you replicate that in the In essence, you could create a digital consciousness. And one thing she knew about William, he was A planner, someone who had backup plans to And sure enough, there it was. Buried in piles of old animatronic CPU's, But she needed someone to test it. Unlike the other games that she'd paid to purpose. This wasn't about PR, it was about getting virus to She hired a new developer, Silver Parasol into the system. And because of the immersive nature of VR, merge with the player, giving him a new body, There was just one complication. Afton's hold wasn't as powerful as she had He wasn't able to gain complete control. The first trial run, Jeremy, was so desperate own face off with a paper shredder. Messy. Afton's followers were reluctant to say But it was the second attempt that looked with one stone. Enter, Vanessa. Mrs. Afton wanted a surrogate daughter. Her darling Elisabeth would have been a young Clara wanted someone who wasn't Elizabeth, Could she have just rebuilt her like Gregory? Sure. But she decided against it because she wanted Well, that. And it would be redundant, narratively unsatisfying What could she say? William had put a lot of tools on the table them all. Plus, Elizabeth had always been so loyal to It was time to give her a second chance, a And Vanessa seemed to be the perfect candidate the role. She started as a QA tester at Silver Parasol was part of her plan to bring back William. But more importantly, Vanessa checked all Right age, blond, green eyes, with a fondness In many ways, it was her daughter all over Except it wasn't just looks and personality. What really mattered was Vanessa's mind: underconfident, to be manipulated. Yes. She would do nicely. She would be the one to save dear old Daddy, While testing the VR game, William's digital Oh, sure, she fought, fragmenting Afton's the game, trying to do web searches to regain But it wasn't enough. She was weaker than Jeremy. She was a thrall that, despite occasional And with Vanessa, it was a two for one deal. She was getting a daughter back while also She just had to make sure that Vanessa was The reborn Gregory was an expert hacker. Part of the benefits of being an Afton and So Clara had him keeping tabs on Vanessa, sessions to ensure the future Elizabeth was If any of the therapists started to ask too from their positions. And while Gregory kept tabs on Vanessa's personal for her professionally. With Silver Parasol's collapse at the hands She then had the possessed Vanessa bring the and the Fazbear, Funtime Service. More glitches, more remnant, more Afton. But it was her last move that was the best. In a true masterpiece of poetry she brought at the pizzaplex, a true family tradition And all it took was a recommendation from deletion. Sure, Vanessa didn't have relevant experience the CEO, does it really matter? Husband, son, daughter. A corpse, a robot, a human. All that was left was Michael. Poor, troubled Michael. The boy that killed her youngest, the one guilty conscience right again. A self-professed protector. While she knew she needed him to complete Something told her that the problem had already Something had shifted when using Glamrock Maybe it was the remnant that had coursed Maybe it was the spirit of Michael living But he was there somewhere inside of Glamrock He could feel it. And just like that, she'd won. She'd done it! Sure, there were still some kinks to work Some final brainwashing of Vanessa, some rehabilitation But they were there, finally. All together again under one roof. The Aftons reunited. A happy ending. And that's how it could have ended. That's how it should have ended. Had it not been for a few unanticipated developments. For one, something was just wrong with the was haunted, possessed. Puppet plushies hiding on ceilings, behind belonging. Staff bots with greasy tears down their eyes, some sort of a nightmare. Even their sounds had the echo of nightmares It was as though a guardian spirit of the As long as her husband was around, it too, Only now it wasn't just in one body, but it She had seen stories of houses built on burial but she'd never assumed that it could be real. Then again, in a world of living spirit metal to be so judgmental? The whole thing was ridiculous. Why would this be the line that she refused After all, the pizzaplex was built over the But it was the power chords that finally convinced Suddenly, these chords were striped black ago. The very foundations of this place, the materials against her. Against the Aftons. Against the quest to bring them all together And it was being helped by something else. Something slithering through the building. Maybe they were connected, she couldn't be But a blob of living wires could be heard and parts of the old animatronics showcased She could only assume that it was a byproduct From Afton's testing she knew that both One of positive emotions. And the other created from anguish, anger, Perhaps this... This thing was an amalgamation of all the collection of the hatred still housed inside As long as it was left alone, it seemed to But if any Afton outside of Michael got too Even young Gregory, looking to punish the creation. Little did she know, though, that Gregory That bringing the family together would have Gregory was normally the goodest of boys. She had literally built him that way. But lately, he'd been disappearing more and requests. She knew that he loved playing on the arcade Being so good as to top the leaderboard on But lately he was nowhere to be found. She suspected his absence had to do with Glamrock when he malfunctioned live on stage. Almost as though the core programing of Freddy Almost like it awakened something inside of She'd have to make sure that Vanessa was on learn that Vanessa wasn't enough. Whether it was the influence of the nightmare seeded deep in Gregory's code, something had in the pizza plex. Bit by bit, this boy was tearing down the freeing Vanessa from her mind control, destroying Glamrock Freddy Loose. As her carefully created world crumbled around She would have to bring them all to RUIN. And there you have it, my friends. Nearly a decade in the making, my FNAF timeline The year of Fazbear Frights, by the way. As always, it wouldn't be right for me to controversial takes that I just handed out. I think we can all agree that this part of So let me just break down some of the major First of all, the biggest swing of this episode rests upon, Mrs. Afton being the CEO of Fazbear Here's why I went with this route. Now, first and foremost, the head of Fazbear that we're meant to solve at this point in The ultimate guide brings it up repeatedly: Who is okaying these decisions? And in the Security Breach memos, we get multiple the top down. Whoever this is, they are the person driving lore here. They're the puppet master who's hiring the brand, building the pizzaplex over the burial So everything at the end of the timeline relies Now, as I see it, there are two possibilities One, an adult robot, Elizabeth, like we see Closet. Or Mrs. Afton. Could it be someone completely new to the Absolutely, yes. But in a game with so many returning faces and arbitrary. So between these two girl bosses, who then Well, Elizabeth always wants to please her bring him to life. But then what's Vanessa's role in all of this? Vanessa is clearly meant to be a parallel Same hair, same eyes, similar backstories. But if the main goal is getting the Afton be the case in Security Breach, then there's We already have Elizabeth running the show. It would also mean that we suddenly have two repetitive and, quite frankly, kinda dumb. Now, look at Mrs. Afton. We know next to nothing about her outside and the Restless and Ballora's song. But what her being head of Fazbear does is Suddenly you're going to have one of every Gregory, one brainwashed human in Elizabeth/Vanessa, Corpse in William and one possessed animatronic Narratively, it makes everything else cleaner. Legally it's also the option that makes the As I call out in my narrative, she'd likely all of its assets. So as Fazbear folds as a company, I suspect But there was one clue that really sold me this right here, in the Post-it room, the A dinner table scene with the whole family, And not only is she there, she is at the head and responsibility. She is the one in charge with William being That one scene shows that we have to include it makes sense for her to be is at the top. Now, there is one big dilemma with my interpretation The ultimate guide really seems to point out Glitchtrap virus to spread. They call out one particular email and FNAF desist to all action about scanning the circuit And even in FNAF VR, we're told that circuit Presumably once they realize what danger is he spreads and gets out of hand. Here's the problem with that, though. If the head of Fazbear doesn't want Afton in the first place? Why did they build over the FNAF 6 pizzeria? Why did they go through an elaborate cover part of the company? Just doesn't make a whole lot of sense. It would be the most inconsistent series of But I did want to call attention to it, since guide is trying to steer us towards. Moving on to minor point number one, the Five rogue indie developer. Here's the thing, FNAF VR opens with this It's recreating the "lies" told to you And since Help Wanted has direct recreations be part of the fabrications that this developer Also, all of this is heavily implied in the of the Pizzaplex. Hence FNAF 1-3: cannon games within the lore Big swing number two The Elephant or ghost Charlie infecting the pizzaplex. John from the Channel FuhNaff has made some the Pizzaplex, the cables that looked like plushies that you find hidden across the pizzaplex smiles and "in your dreams" written on All of these things scream puppet. Plus, with the puppet mask not having tears spirit exists elsewhere. She is still in play, and she has an important The doors to the post-it room in the game's we see a bunch of lit up nightmare staff bot Suspicious to say the least. The channel IDs fantasy did a great theory The Crying Child/Gregory isn't alone in this someone, a spirit: Charlie. Charlie's spirit seems to have pulled a she's affecting a lot of little details, foundational And this isn't the first time that we've seen We've seen spirits communicating with people So we know that this is an established means And I suspect that to some extent it might Which brings me then to my final and probably Gregory as patient 46, the evil robot mastermind. Now, I know when I first came out with this But here's the thing. You don't have to take my evidence points The recent Tales from the Pizzaplex story it. In GGY we find out about a boy named Gregory place arcade machines. When therapists start to go missing, it's to bump them off. And when animatronics start getting corrupted found inside the code. He even chooses the code name Dr. Rabbit, But obviously, by the time of Security Breach, and the animatronics. Why? How? Well, it's not really clear. I tend to believe that something must have or be reset in some way. Maybe it was Charlie talking to him in his Maybe he hit his head. Maybe it was the connection that he made with Not exactly sure, and I don't think we have But it makes sense from a story perspective then switch to trying to destroy him and not And with that, my friends, I'm wrapping this Congratulations. We are on page 40, 22,000 words of FNAF baby. Practically just wrote myself a Tales of the Have I answered everything? No. Does everything fit cleanly? No. But does it feel like the best and most cohesive most of the evidence we're given? Yeah. For me, honestly, it really does. And let's be honest with ourselves. The DLC will probably come out later this Wouldn't be the first time. Then comes the movie. Whatever my descent into madness continues. But regardless, I am so proud of this. This was a massive undertaking and I'm so the editing across all four of these installments. You guys are the best. Thank you for pushing through on 20 plus minute You are unreal and your talent is unrivaled. I'm so lucky to work with you guys every single And like I mentioned before, keep an eye on a Talk Back live stream with some special Was I right? Was I wrong? I want to hear your feedback, so that one's And with that, my friends, we can finally I can leave the demon to its demons with one A GAME THEORY! Thanks for watching.