Triton is an exceptionally unusual, although characteristics, it makes it one of the most because it is the largest moon of Neptune, means that we have only visited it once, very back in 1989, 30 years ago. But what did this it since? Astrum, and together we will find out everything of Triton. First of all, let's discuss where local system. Triton is one of 14 known moons or in other words, moons that orbit along or orbits with very low eccentricity. After irregular moons, the first of which is Triton. inclined, eccentric and often retrograde orbit. set apart from any other spherical moon in Triton orbits clockwise around Neptune as orbits at a 130deg angle to the ecliptic of its orbital eccentricity is close to zero, other large moons in the solar system are as the rotation of their parent planet. What form alongside Neptune, but it is in fact dwarf planet. No wonder then that it is by comprising 99.5% of the mass found in Neptune's relate to? Well, it is the second largest only to Earth and its moon. While it is smaller than our moon orbits Earth, which means it is the 7th largest moon in the entire solar than Pluto. Pluto is often considered the that we know of that formed there... until before Neptune captured it. So, although Triton that it is the biggest and most massive Kuiper found as New Horizons passed Pluto in 2015, composition, which supports the theory that are six other irregular moons, found much objects too, with unusually eccentric orbits perturbed into these weird orbits by the gravity how did that happen? Objects need to lose have enough momentum to escape. Well we can't now is that Triton was once part of a binary Neptune approached Triton and its moon, the the binary system to fall apart, with Triton's enough momentum to be captured in orbit around similar characteristics with Pluto. What exactly nitrogen ice surface with other ices mixed quite a flat terrain, its topography never Voyager 2 did see ridges and troughs, plateaus though is that it has very little in the way young and is constantly being renewed. Like is thought to be methane ice having reacted known as tholins, an organic compound that organic compounds do not mean life is present from which life forms. Life likely couldn't its far too cold and the Sun far to dim to but what's interesting is what could be surface is thought to be a rocky and metallic high density for a moon, at 2 g/cm3. Because size from the next biggest moon in the solar moons smaller than it in the whole solar system core could be enough to heat and power convection what is thought to be under the surfaces of in the solar system. And just like Europa process today on Triton. Liquid water in the Earth. This is the main reason why the surface by liquid water erupting, and then freezing plains have been identified, sparse and flat surrounds the plain. We call this a planitia, We also can see caldera, which is the collapse lava plains formed from. It is thought that also brought minerals from the underground the source of the tholins and organic matter organic compounds are found in the subsurface that conditions are right for life to have lines permeating over the surface, these are or freeze-thaw weathering processes. If we of Triton, we can see the results of some to be dark deposits on the surface, in cone these smaller eruptions may not originate some plumes reaching 8km high, but these are effect within the moon's icy crust. Imagine ice which has settled on dark deposits like the darker, more absorbent tholins beneath, As the ices sublime, the pressure builds in pocket gives way, causing an eruption. This it, spreading them out on the surface again. has been seen on Mars' poles with carbon ice layer. This process can only exist because not as thick as scientists were initially only 0.014 mbar, about the equivalent of 80km varies through seasonal changes. Since Voyager has become denser, as the surface has warmed, on the surface. However, when Voyager 2 passed, to support weather up to 8km above its surface. on Triton, and going back to the image of the eruptions all end up facing the same direction, the moon. Like Pluto, Triton's atmosphere be hydrocarbons in the atmosphere not yet the Sun. The constant depositing of organic and freezing again through seasonal variations, Triton a very dynamic world, unlike most other planet than a moon, likely a sibling of the these factors combined make it one exceptionally you could want to know about Triton. Did you like to further your understanding about the got an amazing interactive course that uses And this is what I really like about it, each to a topic in the natural world, for instance laser tag, and how to make the perfect shot unravel concepts bit by bit and discover deep go! If you want to support Astrum and get math, science and computer science courses, and can get 20% off their annual Premium subscription. be sure to check out my other videos on the a big thanks to those that support the channel, Your help really means a lot. If you would description. All the best and see you next