As a wise man once said, "If you wear a dress While we can neither confirm nor deny this claim, staple of Disney movies since the very beginning. we have to ask, how do these furry friends animals is truly man's best friend, and which I'm Bard with WickedBinge, and this is But before we begin, we have to lay down official Disney movies only, as per usual, so qualify as an animal companion, they obviously Whether or not they can talk is irrelevant, sidekick to their human masters. And yes, this from animal-only or animal-dominant films any villain animal sidekicks since, while they so it would feel a bit pointless to With that out of the way, let's get into our the least good sidekick on our list and working Shocking virtually no one with our we have Iago at the bottom. If we Iago wouldn't even make this list, as he therefore, a villain. However, the second film Fed up with the years of disrespect and abuse, he Aladdin instead. This is entirely out of to his comfortable life in the palace. However, he starts to reform, betraying Jafar a second master and save his new friends. Still, anti-hero than anything, as his greed can get the Al and his group. Nevertheless, when push comes protect his friends, so we're still going to go Similarly, our next spot has to go to Percy. the pet of the villain, Governor Ratcliffe, an antagonist to a few of the later entrants on long as it did with Iago. After seeing Grandmother his ways, and after being comforted by his group in earnest. Since then, he has become one Virginia and doing whatever he can to please her. relationship with Meeko, and the fighting so that coupled with his antagonistic origins The title third least-good animal on our list has it, the best description of this farcical feline he is genuinely helpful, guiding Alice through And at other times, he is deliberately harmful, her wrath on Alice. Like with everything in why he does this, so we can neither give nor take classify the Cheshire Cat as a villain, being So, while he narrowly beats his unpredictable and volatile nature keeps With the questionable characters out of the way, harmful to Moana's quest, we have to place he's a bit, kind of, useless. Not only does he terrified to find himself out on the ocean no care of himself, much less Moana. He appears or survival instinct whatsoever, resulting in him of danger that makes him more of a hinderance to her quest, saving the heart of Te Fiti from movie - and even then, we can't help but feel he's not malicious about it, and he does seem so we can at least place him Next up, we have one of Disney's lesser-known start of the movie, this pig serves as Taran's pet future. Because of this power, Hen Wen serves as a Horned King kidnaps her in order to make her show Hen Wen actually has very little screen time to keep her on the lower end of the list. Still, from for Taran and vise versa, so at the very least, Up next is the bane of robbers and apples Maximus since he's close to both Rapunzel and his ranking changes. If you look at his that they care deeply for one another and that if you look Eugene, while they eventually starts off much more antagonistic, with Maximus believed to be a dangerous criminal. Overall, we with Eugene than Rapunzel, but even then, was doing what he thought was right at the he got to know Eugene for who he really is, Our next entry goes to the highly educated as eccentric as Merlin, it makes sense that wizard, and he certainly isn't afraid to he is still loyal to Merlin and does what he that his sleep isn't interrupted. And even then, knock him too much for his grouchy exterior of his normal cycle. Overall, while he can be a himself to be a good companion to both Merlin and Next up is one of the more complicated with the bad stuff first. Mushu is a very in order to help increase his status with situations for his personal gain and is more than That being said, he is quick to own up to his and does what he can to protect her and make he does what he can to make things right, even at his good traits outweigh his bad ones, so but the negative is enough to For our first of many movie-repeat entries, we tends to be more selfish than most animal rather than his head. Additionally, as we antagonizing the poor pug and trying to steal about Pocahontas and does what he can to help Pocahontas being interested in him, and even makes is going to be executed for the death of Kocoum. to acknowledge that this trash panda is still Up next, we have the expert on humans, this low mainly due to how ineffective he is. He with Ariel coming to him often for advice on his explanations tend to range from resulting in Ariel's actual knowledge of However, in the grand scheme of things, this is a for it in the end. He is the one to find out that everything he can to fight her for Ariel's sake. this list, but at the very least, he's willing Our next entrant goes to the hairy little only steals in order to survive, Abu is a anything and everything that catches his interest, and causes Aladdin quite a bit of frustration as he clearly shows that he does have a big heart companions and is willing to put up with a lot an elephant in the hopes of winning over Jasmine Abu is often portrayed as the voice of reason his ability to grow and mature beyond his a few of his antagonistic traits, so soft heart and character growth is still Next up, we have Frankie, who is only the second the frogs genetically enhanced by Franny, Frankie the Robinsons during the family's dinner. However, Frankie's involvement with the family. The the Robinsons is when he takes care of the in the trunk of the frogs' car. He did have a though as he was being mind-controlled by we can't count that against him. Because we have to place him lower on he does what he can to help them with their Our next entry has to go to Experiment 626, the definitions of "animal" and "sidekick", talking about him. As a genetic experiment Stitch has a very aggressive and temperamental with Lilo, he shows he has the will and ability his destructive tendencies for good, defending such as Dr. Hamsterviel and even his fellow tantrum when things do not go as planned, but his good levels still outweigh his Up next, we have the big old Papa Bear, Baloo. species name very seriously, as he is incredibly else. He forms a quick bond with Mowgli, teaching wanting to spend as much time with the man-cub as Baloo's placement. On the one hand, he tries to where he would certainly be in danger. But on the best interests at heart, risking his own life to on his desires to adopt Mowgli and takes him to and happily. Because of his initial selfishness, of our list, but he's got plenty of good Coming to our first duplicate animal - sort is undoubtably the nicest resident of Halloween By the very nature of Halloween existing to its inhabitants fall into a morally gray area by malicious about it and can be good characters with Zero. He is extremely loyal to Jack and wants helps Jack out with his Christmas scheme despite it's what Jack wanted. And when it inevitably in the right direction by reminding Jack of his the drag factor of the rest of his movie From one dog to another, next we have Max. Being able to speak, his involvement in the story is to Ariel and is one of the biggest proponents of Ariel when she's turned into a human as well as trying to keep Eric from falling for her tricks. role he plays in the film, leaving him shy little he does do, Max is shown to be quite Next up, we have Octavius Lollygagger, better to Cinderella's mice friends, with his first Cinderella herself. While his low intelligence lower spot, he is easily able to overcome these of recklessness, and wants to do everything he in danger in order to protect his friends and the key to Cinderella's room away from Lucifer bulb in the drawer, but Gus proves that the Our final entry from Pocahontas goes to Flit's priorities lie with keeping Pocahontas any of the former's self-serving tendencies to get Kocoum due to him believing that the latter will was initially distrusting of John, he does end up worth by rescuing Powhatan from a gunshot, his mind if he feels it's best for Pocahontas. as this change of heart didn't come until everything he does, he does for the benefit Up next, we have our final canine entrant, Bruno is fiercely loyal to Cinderella. He is also other animals at the chateau. The one exception patience due to his tormenting of Cinderella. This as while he does this to protect Cinderella, this indirectly putting both of them in danger of being much for not liking the villains, so we Rounding the center of our list, we next find controversy surrounding the sexual orientation more interesting characters in this movie. As form of love and respect initially, he takes is extremely feisty and belligerent, being quick threat to Esmeralda. This does include Phoebus at had treated them up to this point, we really Djali is a very loyal kid with a feisty streak who Next, we have a cat who really earns his stripes, as the protector to Princess Jasmine, franchise without any hint of disloyalty. He and is often the one to keep them in line whom Rajah will occasionally threaten to eat even Rajah for something, it would have to be that he even slightly, including Iago, Aladdin, and even these characters, keeping him from dropping any time and effort for the tiger to fully trust is, he easily earns his ranking this high up. a motorbike, Tuk Tuk. There is no denying that Tuk everything from combat to cross-country transport. major to fault him for, aside from a slightly movie. However, even in the half where he is most much of note other than a few instances here and path to the Dragon Gem when they were young. few entrants, but we have to give him credit for So, it really makes things awkward when we have get the negative out of the way first, Terk is She lets her pride get in the way of helping herself in any sort of danger. However, these minor ones at that. At her core, Terk takes as well as the other members of their family. She well, from breaking him out of the ship's brig keep Kerchak away from the nesting grounds. a protective big sister who cares deeply for her Up next, we have a little guy with a big heart, on the negative side of these characters without good points. Much like his buddy Gus, Jackson Cinderella. He acts as the leader of the mice, and smartest and quickest. He was the first one to to take him on alone. What's more, as the leader, efforts, from putting together Cinderella's ball Tremaine. Just like the others, Jaq may be This next one may be a surprise, but we're going starts out as the companion to the film's villain, take after his first master in the slightest. he is incredibly friendly and helpful, taking he is so taken with Jim that when Silver reveals master's behavior and stays with Jim instead, Fortunately, like Morph himself, Silver isn't as stay with Jim instead, which is what earns Morph a Morph is shown to be a loyal companion to Jim, Inn after their adventures. We're willing to because he never acted like one, so what we're who more than deserves a spot this high up. protector, Pascal. While he can't communicate his intentions clear. He is a true and loyal rooting her on, and refusing to allow her to Pascal's also extremely protective of Rapunzel, Maximus, and even during the climactic struggle be highly affectionate to those he deems worthy support for Eugene and his relationship with this list has taught us anything thus far, it's Next up is a character with a name so long, but let's just call him Sebastian for now. When left to his own devices, he is especially when it comes to his beloved his job often requires him to be strict and his most striking traits are his loyalty whom he sees as his closest friend, and to figure in absence of the former. He is willing as seen when he works to help Ariel find happiness where he knows she'll end up being miserable. but Sebastion makes it clear that this Just outside of the top ten, we Bagheera. Level-headed and intelligent, Bagheera of the jungle. While he can be easily frustrated going out of his way to ensure his safety and Mowgli and Baloo, who both want the former to this for Mowgli's sake. Plus, he was shown to be so we can't hold it against him. Nevertheless, caring individual who makes it a crucial Our next spot goes to the luckiest bug around, truly lucky, Cri-Kee still proves himself the straight man foil to Mushu, helping him out the dragon on the right path. This does the short end of the stick, resulting or facing some kind of physical injury. and still values Mushu as a friend, so He may not do much, but we have to give this lucky Up next is the entrant that is certified may be a reindeer on the outside, Sven is being very loyal and playful for a beast his sleigh-puller and even conscience, doing and following his heart. While he doesn't speak, Sven has no problems making his intentions and even his patented puppy dog face. There are but when push comes to shove, he can be reason, we have to give this lovable For our final aquatic entrant, we find the bravest seems to be the running theme with this list, but it seems. As Ariel's closest friend and goes, doing everything he can to keep her safe and him this high up is the fact that he is basically anxious and adverse to adventure. You would think if they ended there. However, Flounder never lets when Ariel needs him the most. He follows her on for the danger, and he even throws himself into protect Eric, and by extension, Ariel. For being afraid to swallow his fears in the face of rough Our next entry goes to the cow - er, horse - Khan makes it very clear that he cares deeply for silently snarking at absurd events tried and failed at acting like a man. He that mainly falls on the dragon for his various Ultimately, however, Khan proves himself to be companions in the entire Disney lineup, fearlessly I mean, how many other pets would charge The only think keeping him from an even higher but what we do see of him is more than enough From one equine entry to another, next we Pegasus is a very loyal steed to Hercules, needs assistance without hesitation. in addition to being Hercules' faithful being extremely close to him and acting almost double-edged sword, as Pegasus also displays else gets Hercules' attention. Still, and he's more than willing to set his feeling calls for it, so we can't fault him for much. a big part in Hercules' life even when they were that he had been watching over him the whole time. we have to acknowledge that Pegasus is definitely Up next, we have Louis, who is, again, the Louis makes it this high up on the list for He is a coward by nature, despite his size and an unusually low tolerance for pain. Despite this, up and face his fears in order to protect his of becoming a famous musician when his friends are his intimidating size to help fight them off. He will always have your back and put a smile on your It's a similar case with our next entrant, is a coward and a hypochondriac going through However, when his friends are in danger, he danger to help them. What keeps him above proactive than the gator, often serving as pushing Tarzan and Terk to step up when danger the exception to his cowardly personality, it's this peaceful pachyderm a spot this high up. to go to one of Disney's forgotten furry friends, see how Gurgi managed to get this high up. Like unlike either of them, Gurgi usually lets his from danger in all but one instance. He does personality tends to rub them the wrong way more Bronze Medal? Well, to put it simply, that one to give it special mention. When Taran attempts dark magic and kill the Horned King, Gurgi stops that his friends can escape the castle alive. but it's a whole other level to actually give while he is revived at the end of the movie, the his life without any expectation of a do-over is The Silver Medal has to go to one of the flagship giving Jiminy the Silver Medal of Good because... conscience, he is famously level-headed and wise, While he initially performed this role under strength needed to grow and develop in spite of Pinocchio as his best friend, motivating him to of endeavors. Further appearances also showed that becoming increasingly sage-like and devoted to the topmost spot is his feisty and pessimistic which did cost him some points in the as well as the nature of his position, is enough The Gold Medal of Good has to go to yet another he takes the best attributes of our previous two Ray is a friendly and helpful companion without any expectation of a reward. He acts as proving himself to be quite intelligent and wise he is also willing to sacrifice himself, unbeatable foe to protect his friends. Unlike making Ray's death all the more impactful in the as he lives long enough to see Tiana and and he gets his happy ending when he is reunited For his friendly personality, thoughtful think of any other character we could name as the But what do you think? Let us know if you bell and binge our Good-to-Evil playlist; characters in your favorite cartoons.