Bidding on projects takes time and money, so it's have the highest chance of being successful for success? I've been doing this for over 40 a few thousand to over hundreds of thousands Small residential projects take very little effort projects the time involved and costs begin to there's a cost of your time and money to pursue to pursue, and which to pass on, because you can't bad projects, the less time you have to win of making the wrong decision. You need to keep and why. So, how do you make the right decision, things to consider before spending time and consideration is who are you bidding to? Your the owner, to a single general contractor, part of a team. Obviously the least risk involves The least favorable options are bidding The more General Contractors involved in the chance of winning the project and making a profit. making it hard for anyone to earn a profit. project for little to no profit. Your time is So, option 1 is the best one, that's Direct often the case in residential construction, This removes any middle layers of decision competitors. Often owners will only seek three or the bid. In commercial construction the chances of previous relationships established with the that you might have done at the site. If you equipment, then you have a fair chance of always This is one reason why it's important you'll get what is called pull through and familiar to the owner. Cold calling is a tough business, but it If you're bidding Federal, State, City or Public to many, depending on the response to the (RFP) be bidding direct if the focus is on one of if there's significant work in other trades. mechanical trade is the largest portion. Now your who has the project. This is where the General project and is now seeking subcontractor to multiple General Contractors, as in this So you need to make sure that you're not just a way too often, and it isn't fair to those who are offered the job. Remember the General Contractor has used a friendly Mechanical Contractor or the GC used his own values, or it's playing role in any part of the installation, he's just the construction. Now your next and worst option is when there are multiple General Contractors. as the odds of winning and making you're working out of your garage and you With multiple General Contractors each of making success tough. And, even if it's going to have to be low amongst a dozen to be in business very long, because there's Too many Generals invite too many Mechanicals. have 6 General Contractors bidding on a project, and each one of them invites 3 Mechanicals, you're Not a good chance of winning the project, and if You're just going to be spinning your wheels, when Item number 2. What to look for when bidding There are three basic delivery methods involved in everybody's familiar with is Plans and and then Design/Build. So, I'll briefly cover meaning is beyond this article. So, Plan and option. Most contractors are aware of the Plans Owner he hires the Engineer to develop a set of obligations are defined by what the Engineer has limited by your proposal language, meaning and the clarifications you use in your verbiage, work not reflected on the Plans and Specifications delivery method would be Design/Assist, which in but not the best opportunity. This is when the partially completed, and spell's out the intent of Equipment may be selected or not, but usually options are provided. You will participate in the comments. This is not as common as Plan &amp; Spec Design/Build is your the 3rd method and I believe involved in Design/Build if you're not already. takes responsibility for the Design and Now if you don't have in-house engineering as part of your team, but you guide the design to your budget. And you are responsible for three types of delivery methods which ones winning, and earning a fair profit at building? Design/Build project then that limits you to Plans my experience has been that the Design/Build greatest profit margins. This is because you can to construction, and it's usually a lot Tracking your delivery methods and the margins or will allow you to make an informed decision on One of the company's goals I was involved in with, was the pursuit to be 100% a Design/Build contractor and eliminate any Plans and Spec work, So, the next thing that you want to ask, is labor rate competition. This of your labor rates to those of your competition. to the project because it could Union versus Non-union, this is where the greatest like I've always been on the union side of if the project is accepting non-union bids. As a according to a bargaining agreement. A non-union market will bear, which is the majority of the If you're a union company then it's a waste if you're competing against a non-union agreements or funds that allow you to recoup apprentice to be more competitive with non-union, they have such a fund. Then you have prevailing So, what can equalize the labor rate inequalities if there is a mandate that sets a minimum a project requirement to pay prevailing wages or attempts to provide a fair wage for Be careful if you're a non-union contractor of agreements are normally found, as the labor likely higher than you're currently paying. certified payroll records though, so there your risk assessment for whether to bid or not to is union or non-union, or if there is some form So to summarize the top 3 questions you need to What type of delivery method, Plan And, what are the labor requirements, So, now you can take those 3 questions and assign a risk assessment score. So having that corresponds to the risk level can save you time and money, or you can do it especially if you're a Union contractor, there's no bid, or if you prefer to pursue Design/Build not bid on the Plan and Spec and wait for the to multiple generals that's that's an easy no you got no choices, then your options. So, those you're evaluating these, but those are 3 of the giving a score, or a thought to which projects It takes time to put to get the material taken quotes, sub quotes, put it all together. All you're chasing the wrong jobs then you're giving who does the project bid to, what is the delivery If you like that video please give it a thumbs