BILL MOYERS: our conversation with astrophysicist Neil NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: a voter until you have a scientific literacy issues. This requires a base level of science literacy ANNOUNCER: Anne Gumowitz, encouraging the renewal of Carnegie Corporation of New York, celebrating doing real and permanent good in the world. The Ford Foundation, working with visionaries The Herb Alpert Foundation, supporting organizations creativity in our society. The John D. And Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, and peaceful world. More information at Macfound.Org. Park Foundation, dedicated to heightening The Kohlberg Foundation. Barbara G. Fleischman. And by our sole corporate sponsor, Mutual and group retirement products. That's why we're your retirement company. BILL MOYERS: For two weeks now the astrophysicist Neil the outer edges of the universe in pursuit NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON from Moyers &amp; Company We expected gravity to be slowing down the The opposite is happening. We don't know what's causing it. BILL MOYERS: NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON from Moyers &amp; Company We account for one sixth of the forces of There is no known objects accounting for most Something is making stuff move that is not BILL MOYERS: spectacular displays of fire and light. But, down here, the collision of science and can create its own fireworks. Which brings me to the controversy Neil deGrasse said this to me in one of our earlier episodes: NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON from Moyers &amp; Company The problem arises is if you have a religious realities that you then want to put in the there and say, "No, I'm not going to allow BILL MOYERS: be scratching his bug-eyed head over that In 21st century America why should our most classroom against the intrusion of religion? Two reasons: Over the past few years, the of evolution has gone up. Look at this Gallup Poll. Forty six percent of the country embraces pretty much in their present form at one time Perhaps less surprising, a Pew Research survey Protestants, the bedrock of the Republican have evolved. So while acceptance of evolution has increased it's fallen to 43 percent. That's a huge partisan divide. Something else is happening, too, and no one Our Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan, calls Consider this, PISA tests, tests that measure among high school students in different countries, In math, students in 33 other countries, including and the Czech Republic, did better than American In science, students in 24 countries including ahead of ours. And in reading, our best subject, kids in The hard truth, says Secretary Duncan, is performing comparable countries in any subject That's bad news for our students and the All fodder for my last round with Neil deGrasse He's the director of the Hayden Planetarium History, he's also the narrator of a mesmerizing and this spring he'll appear as the host You can see it on the National Geographic Welcome. NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: BILL MOYERS: NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: BILL MOYERS: According to the Pew Research Center, back accepted human evolution as a fact. But now, a plurality rejects it. So I ask you, politics can trump science, NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: You vote who you want on your school board. There is no provision in the constitution in schools. That's all relegated to the states. Hence, we speak state to state about what's And so that's the country we've all sort of I think it's a self-correcting phenomenon. Nobody wants to die, okay? So we all care about health. But above all else, among the Republicans to die poor, okay? So educated Republicans know the value of the thriving of an economy and business and They know this. If you put something that is not science in then you are undermining an entire enterprise that we have come to take for granted in this So we're already fading economically. If this, if that trend continues, some Republican got to split these two. We have to. Otherwise, we will doom ourselves to poverty.&quot; And so I see it as a self-correcting, I don't BILL MOYERS: What's at stake-- NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: BILL MOYERS: NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: be here. It's a matter of we're just voting into office money gets generated. In, you know, since the Industrial Revolution in science and technology and its impact on If that begins to go away, it's a different We'll still call ourselves America, but we And that's a choice we are making as an elective BILL MOYERS: present company excepted, is a household name, What does that suggest to you? NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: literate and didn't know the name of any scientist. Because that's matters much more. It matters much more that you understand what the energy content of oil versus wind versus It matters that you know that an asteroid us and how we might deflect it. That matters. It matters what is happening to your health. This requires a base level of science literacy You have not fully expressed your power as in topics that matter for future political BILL MOYERS: from charlatans, right? NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: against charlatans who would exploit your money from you or your opportunity from you. So the world does respond and follow known We understand that. So yeah, I mean, so "Cosmos," when it the head. I'm not saying, here, learn this or else. It's an offering. It's like, here it is. And here's why it matters. Here's why your life can be transformed just And then I go home. BILL MOYERS: along some disturbing statistics. As you know, American students are performing science. In science, just ahead of Russia, and on a In math, fewer than 9 percent of our students percent in Shanghai, 40 percent in Singapore, What's going on? NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: Yeah. I mean, okay, there's that fact that you just Now look at the rising economies in the world. The rising and falling economies. It's going to track those numbers. The beginning of the end of what we thought that had as a priority leading the world in So that's, this is the writing on the wall. Now how, why hasn't it happened sooner? Because a lot of these numbers have been around I have a hypothesis. But I didn't do the experiment. But it's not good enough to only be smart At some point, you have to step away from no one has had before. And it's not a thought that you told me to because it's a thought that no one has had And how do you get those thoughts? You get those in an, in irreverent cultures. Possibly, that has delayed our collapse, because what someone else has learned in their lifetime one else has made before. BILL MOYERS: We give kids too many tests? NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: BILL MOYERS: NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: of the test is. I, test people, it's a way to find out what But don't then say, if you don't know this, No, no, because go find people who are successful Find, you know, talk show hosts and comedians politicians. Put them in a room, say, how many here got None of them are going to raise their hands. By the way, throw in inventors, throw in all their hand, okay? Bill Gates dropped out of college. Michael Dell dropped out of college. Those people are not-- the success of those on the exam that you wrote as professor. Because they're thinking in ways that you tomorrow. And the only way you can invent tomorrow is school system has provided for you by the another generation. BILL MOYERS: And, I mean, some people say this educational because we have one of the highest child poverty They point to the fact that high-poverty schools whereas wealthy schools did very well. In fact, students in the wealthiest schools as a separate jurisdiction, they would have and reading and would have ranked sixth in So inequality matters. NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: That's, yeah. And your point is? That's always been the case. BILL MOYERS: NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: Rights Movement in the 1960s. And a lot of my cultural awareness and sensitivities, by just that kind of awareness. The inequality of, the unequal distribution a capitalist system, but you, what you don't okay? People will sort themselves out by who works I got that. I even embrace that. But if everyone does not have equal access, Your country will falter. BILL MOYERS: NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: of people that might've been contributing, of day. So, the light of the intellectual day. So yeah, that's bad. And it is not the sign of a healthy democracy. It's not even the sign of a healthy capitalist Being at the top of your game intellectually, thing. I read history, I look at countries that rise ignorance and to making discoveries about And then by change of force, by change of the entire operation collapses. Look at Islam a thousand years ago, Baghdad intellectual capital of the world, while Europe, That's why our numerals are called Arabic these numerals and invented algebra, itself Two-thirds of the stars in the night sky have How does that happen? Because they had navigating devices, astrolabes. That culture of discovery ended and has not I look at America, post-war, 20th-century Investing in science and engineering, and And yeah, we had our inequalities and we had we had our vision statement. We were thinking about our future. We weren't thinking about the now, we were That's what the World's Fair was, inventing When that's how you think about your country points in that direction. Innovative, inventive, creative policy that Without it, you live in the present and the as well physically be moving backwards. Because that's what you look like to the rest So as a scientist, I don't care who does the I want to see good scientific results no matter But as an American, I feel it. I feel the fading of our luster, the fading BILL MOYERS: Huebner, who says humans are running out of He says, &quot;I think the major branches of discovery Do you agree? NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: Oh my gosh. That is, we put-- I would say this to the The-- you can't be more, that's, let me be Previous statements such as that made by physicists How's that for polite? BILL MOYERS: That'll do. NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: So, there was a physicist. One of these Nobel-prize-winning physicists the turn of that century, we were at the top Newton's laws were working, electricity was of the laws of nature. And they said, but, there are a couple of But that's just a matter of getting an extra ideas, we're done, we're done here. Just a few clouds on the horizon, we're good Don't become a physicist. There's nothing left to discover. BILL MOYERS: NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: Relativity would be discovered. Special relativity and general relativity, of classical physics would be turned on its two or three decades to follow the uttering So of course he can't see the future. That's kind of what it means to not be in Half of my library are old books because I world at their time. So that I don't get bigheaded about something where we might go next. Because you can see who got stuff right and BILL MOYERS: to answer before you die? NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: I hate to sound cliche about this, but my the word, yet to be divined, because there's that question into the center of the table. I live for those questions. So that means I can't tell you what they are, be discovered. BILL MOYERS: Influencing-- NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: is, there's going to be some question about and say, I never even thought to ask that In 1920, no one thought to ask, how fast is Okay? How fast is the universe expanding? Because no one thought the universe was expanding You can't ask questions about the movement in motion. You can't ask questions about other galaxies So on my deathbed, I will relish in all of to ask, because it was the discoveries of BILL MOYERS: me. NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: Thank you. BILL MOYERS: And the choices we make in democracy often scientific evidence that contradicts them. And beliefs can be stubborn, hard to give They even determine which facts we choose Partisans, especially - and who among us the facts to fit their preconceived notions. So, when people do stupid things, journalists are often driving them, sometimes right over As people in recovery say, denial is not just And that's what makes it dangerous. Right now, two powerful belief systems have in the face. Just as the number of Americans who question has the number who deny that global warming it. This, at a time when the global scientific and I, and everyone else, are helping to turn And here's the scary political reality: radical right Republicans have made denial You can see it embodied in this man, Paul and a physician with strong religious beliefs: PAUL BROUN: I was taught about evolution, and embryology, from the pit of hell. And it's lies to try to keep me and all that they need a savior. You see there are a lot of scientific data show that this is really a young earth. I don't believe that the earth's but about I believe it was created in six days as we That's what the Bible says. BILL MOYERS: warming, his fellow Republicans in the House PAUL BROUN on CSPAN: Well, actually we've had a flat line temperatures Scientists all over this world say that the is one of the greatest hoaxes perpetrated It is a hoax. BILL MOYERS: Up to a point, we might agree that Representative even when he is telling the extremist John man-made global warming is a conspiracy to, But remember, this man is chairman of oversight and Technology Committee of the United States on public policy and science. God help us. BILL MOYERS: of citizens braving the dead of winter to make candidates take a stand on the corruption LAWRENCE LESSIG: issue America has to address; if you're on addressing the issues of the deficit. On the left, if you care about climate change, Whatever the issue is, if you look at the to see that there will be no sensible reform BILL MOYERS: I'll see you there and I'll see you here,