ok so to start off I've got 4 images for you. Quick question what do all of very surprised if you guess this one here. (Giuseppe) They are full of lines. (M) They are full of lines, they are in a circle. But actually they are pictures of times this. So to get these pictures what then you pick a random number. And we just choose something nice to start with, a 10. Then we put 10 points on the on equally spaced and then we label them 10 we also want, so we kind of put it 12 13 14 15 and so on. And then And now we're going to do the start with 0. So 2 times 0 is 0, same thing, so we don't do anything. OK, two times 1 is 2. So we connect the 1 to the 2. Then 2 times 2 is 4, connect the 2 to the 4 and we keep on going, pretty obvious. Now 2 times 5 is 10 and And then 2 times 6 is 12 which is also the 2 and we just keep on going like this okay and then at 9 you pretty much go on so for example could now do 2 connections but actually the connections before. Just to illustrate, let's just go up to 2 times 12 is 24 which corresponds to 2 times 13 is 26, and we've already got that. Of course we made a choice at the beginning that 10 If you change that 10 to anything well the picture changes but pretty much So for example if you switch from 10 to 13 14 15 and let's just see what happens. (Giuseppe) Is there a reason why the diagrams have a horizontal symmetry axis. (M) yep yep yep yep yep there's a reason and let us give this as homework. Guys figure it out in the comments, tell us why there is a horizontal symmetry axis. more interesting is that curve that up the number that we chose at the beginning and actually just highlight it a bit. This strange curve got a name and pops like in cardiology and means heart. So it's like a mathematical heart curve. It comes up in all kinds of places. I'll just show you a few. Ok so for example you can circle around another circle and just the boundary of the rolling circle and what it does is it traces the cardioid. Now where else can you see it? Well sometimes you can see it in coffee cup like this and the Sun is in the in the coffee cup then we can also see it. Where else? Right biggest bulb in the Mandelbrot set is a cardioid and the second one is a perfect circle. Now this would be a good one to figure out why why is this guy somewhere. Now just for those people who know something about the stuff, that's the equation that we use to make up the Mandelbrot set We just had the two times table. Let's (Giuseppe) One more thing about the cardioid shape. As a video producer I know that there is a microphone called cardioid microphoes and that is because they pick up the sound in that area, from that direction. (M) Okay maybe we do another video on this. Now instead of doing the two times table we can do the the three times table. What we get is this pattern here for initial our numbers and what do we get? Another curve, another very famous It's also a rolling curve, here the circle that is rolling is half the size of the other one. It's also in a generalized Mandelbrot set. Remember before we head an exponent of 2. Now we're change the exponent to 3 and you actually We also get it in the coffee cup. This time we need a straight straight coffee cup and the light So they come in straight like this and the cup and and make up this curve. What else have we got. Four times you can see a pattern now. Four times gets you three petals. Before we had three times and so two petals and all these other things that we've highlighted they work too. Here the the exponent has gone up to to 4 in the generalized Mandelbrot set. Here we've got the rolling curve happening again. And then just for good measure petals and we've got the Mandelbrot set here and we've got the rolling curve. All very neat. (Giuseppe) So the number of petals is n-1? Yep and it keeps on going like this. Ok so let's start again with 2 times table. Now one one really nice thing to try is to actually actually do smaller increments actually do the transition here the multiplication times 2.1. What you get 2.7, 2.8, 2.9 and 3 and you can see how this cardioid turns into the nephroid. Now I just let it go. The numbers are going up and you can see the petals going more and more and more. You think well that's probably what this in the Mandelbrot set and you pattern happening in the middle. As we push the exponent to infinity the circle. Okay and now you think that's Let's keep going here. Now the petals are pretty much going away but if you just look at what's happening here somehow being hinted at. I mean I'm very fast but if you actually went a lot of really really nice structure Just a few of the frames that you get happening here so if you stop at 33 you get this one. If you stop at 34 and there are a couple of other highlights here. There are a lot more but that is how Ok maybe let's have a close look at some of them. So here we've got four. The number that all these correspond to is 200. What we're really doing he has a So what we're doing here is special name. It's actually incredibly to do this sort of modular arithmetic. you know you understand how it's built up know a little bit more. So for the 2 times table we get the cardioid. For the 34 times table modulo 200 we get this guy here and then So, for example, if you multiply by 51 we get this guy here and if you multiply by 99 you at the two numbers here below so 51 is pretty close to 1/4 of 200 so must have something to do is that. 99 have something to do with that. Now I really want to explain where this one saw it I was pretty surprised like something I had seen the cardioid before in you know many many different guises and in one particular one that I was familiar I just want to tell you about that one bouncing around. It's a little bit different circle here and then we've got a light reflects the light right, so we switch on happens? Well light rays emanate in all kinds of directions and get reflected off the circle bounce around and you can see knew this one I had actually calculated university. And starting with this you can actually see very easily why the cardioid comes up in the two times table and I just want to show you.Let's just highlight like one of those rays coming out here. It hits the wall here angle as it comes in, so this angle that you see here is the same as it comes in. So what does that tell us now? Well, if we if we put this line in the middle that means that this side really flips over segment in particular is exactly as long this light bulb to this point and then from same distance, that's going to be important. So let's make this 0 let's call this N. What's 2N then? To get 2N we have to measure this distance here and then we have to measure it again and where do we get? And so it's pretty clear that when you do the 2 times thing you get that reflected ray, you know, in the picture. Just to finish off I'll show you a little bit of a movie of all the stuff evolving a little bit slower than what