(instrumental music) - [Narrator] Welcome to the wonderful world of blood donation. Around the world, giving blood is seen as one of the noblest acts in modern society. But the reality is different altogether. - Health care is the perfect Our willingness to pay for especially for our love ones, knows no bounds. - [Narrator] At the plasma, a yellow liquid rich in proteins. It's the main component of blood. It's more expensive than oil. - I like a cow, but giving blood. - It almost killed me, so I - [Narrator] We decided to explore a little-known area within the blood trade. Our investigation took us to ( police siren whaling) - [Interviewer] They don't like - Yeah man, you know why? They doin' something They need to stop. Public want to know. (haunting instrumental music) - [Narrator] Today Despite his busy job, he's a regular blood donor at the Red Cross center in Lausanne. Carlos sees his act as a sign of commitment to the community. More than 100 million donations are collected each year worldwide. In 2015, the Swiss Red Cross The figure diminishes each year and they're constantly seeking new donors. Their message is clear: giving blood saves lives. - [Narrator] Blood is said Faust's devil with glee, but he's not the only Health is also an industry and blood donations are subject - [Narrator] Before giving blood, these Swiss donors must and give their informed consent. In particular, there is one line at the end of the form, a sentence in small letters: I am aware that some may be used for the production of drugs. Only a few donors read this time. Though it's crucial, in reality, most of the donated blood is something the Red Cross doesn't advertise. - [Narrator] The plasma These are the pharmaceutical companies that buy 80,000 liters of plasma from the Red Cross each year. The humanitarian institution Swiss francs from this sale. Are the donors aware of it? - [Narrator] First discovery. The majority of the donor's blood is sold to pharmaceutical industries. The industry is so for a specific reason, it's liquid part called plasma contains sought after proteins. They're used to make very Who are the players behind this industry? We decided to track the plasma trade. - [Female Narrator] Welcome to CSL plasma. Typically, 57% of our blood volume Plasma is a strong-colored that transports water and nutrients to all cells in the body. It is composed of approximately - [Narrator] The plasma industry is huge and a handful of companies Baxter in the USA, CSL Behring in Australia, Grifols in Spain, and the company Octapharma in Switzerland which we discovered through - [British Narrator] is produced by the perfect bioreactor developed over millions the human body. - [Narrator] For these companies, plasma is nothing but a raw material and very lucrative too. The professional term is fractionation, the name of the procedure that transforms donors plasma into drugs. To do this, they collect, freeze, and mix thousands of These companies control a market which is worth $17 billion Wolfgang Marguerre, the president and He's a very discreet person. Forbes estimates his This is one of his very - How do you see the future developing? - These products are life-saving drugs and they will be required for some patient groups as a lifelong therapy. - Presumably, they're covered by most - Yes, they have to be because But that is also the other There are many countries to provide this kind of level of treatment to their population yet, at least. It sounds easy when you say plasma should be available enough. You just go to your you collect the plasma and then you will be in good shape and you make those products. It's not the case. - [Narrator] Now, a truly Octapharma remains a family business dedicated to always going further to empower more patients to go further in their life of adventure. - [Narrator] Throughout the world, the lives of millions of patients depends on these treatments, Tamara is one of them. Today she's receiving her treatment at a hospital in Bern. Since childhood, she suffers from an immune deficiency that causes repeated infections. - [Woman] Hey, Tamara! - Hi (mumbles). Oh, I'm good. Yeah. - [Woman] Going? - Yeah. - [Narrator] Thanks to her Tamara's life has become easier, so much so that it would be - [Narrator] Where is her Where is the blood in the drug from? From Swiss donors? - [Narrator] The plasma's It's a trade secret. We decide to visit Swissmedic. This is the Swiss authority including their origins. These experts analyze as well as the blood-derived products that are used in hospitals. - [Narrator] Cleveland, United States. We decided to travel there. (catchy instrumental music) West 25th Street, the address listed in some of the plasma used in the drugs sold in Switzerland comes from here. This blood collection center belongs to the Australian company, CSL. Donate plasma, save lives. Earn up to $200 a month. There are donor ads everywhere which tell says that the volunteers are paid for their blood. As opposed to most European countries, the USA allows compensation This practice is legal. We enter the premises which impossible to speak with the staff. - Yeah, you can't just You gotta do with the right way. - [Interviewer] I know. We (mumbles) from the outside, from the-- - Okay, across the street. Across the street, you can that way... You know? - [Interviewer] Yeah. - [Narrator] The center is in one of the city's poorest neighborhoods. Cleveland is a devastated city. The financial crisis of Pastor Lester Williams knows the reality of life in this neighborhood. Many of his church I can't live without you - [Woman] Come on, pastor. - [Pastor] Thank you. God bless you. Thank you. - [Man] God is good. - I guess it all works out. It's legal, so I don't have a problem with that if that's what people decide to do. - But what is strange they continue to call this a donation. But what is a donation - It's not a donation. It's not free. That's what a donation should be. It should be free. Evidently they're exploiting people in whatever their So it's actually not a donation. They're actually paying for it. Now are they charging Are they charging - [Interviewer] Yes. - So there making money 'Cause the little that they're it's not very much. - [Narrator] In Cleveland, all the market leaders are represented. CSL, Grifols, we also find Octapharma, the Swiss company which - I like your tattoos. - Thanks. - [Male] Man, those are cool. - [Narrator] Mark goes there twice a week to sell his plasma. - I'm on a budget right now where I'm on 32 bucks for rent, $45 for the phone, $50 a month for my insurance, so, I'd have to say, I'm gonna ballpark around And I found out that That's a problem when it's a fragile thing to know. - [Narrator] We wanted to speak with the people in charge. This turned out to be impossible. The hostility increased the - [Woman] (shouting) Please, those cameras please. (mumbles), can I have those cameras here? - [Man] All right. - [Interviewer] We're in public property. - [Female] This is private property. - [Man] That is not. - [Female] It is. - [Man] I'm just following my friend. - [Female] Okay. - [Narrator] So we in the parking lot. - First, it was kinda just to get a little money on the side to help me with bills and stuff. And then, I became a regular. At first when you first your first five times as a new customer. Then after that, on Tuesdays or Thursdays, any two days of the week, you get $20 and then it go up to $40. - [Interviewer] How long have - Now for a year. It started last - Yup, two times a week. - [Interviewer] That's a lot. - Yes, but it ain't bad. It's cool. It help out. It's good for the families. It's good for my family too in the end. So one hand watch the other hand. - No one does it for any No one does it for the moral... No one does 'cause it helps people. It's just one of the side - [Narrator] The procedure As soon as the plasma bottle is full, the donor's credit card is credited. - Here we go, right here. Now, this is a blood bank card. It's almost like a regular visa card. They put the money on your card immediately after you get done. Sometimes they forget to put the money on your card and you got to call their Because if you don't call that number on your card and stuff, you're gonna be without money. (thumping instrumental music) - [Narrator] After the economic crisis, donations soared in the USA going from 15 million in 2007 to 32 million in 2014. Luke Schafer is a sociologist - When we look at the numbers of families reporting cash incomes below two dollars per person it's well more than doubles and when we look at the number of families who are on food stamps, it actually quadruples. Emergency food assistance So when all of these are so we walked into the plasma and just ask people, &quot;Why are you here? &quot;What's going on?,&quot; people have lost their jobs, haven't been able to find work. In many cases, it's going to be the only income coming into the household. It's their only option. - [Narrator] We rejoined Mark It didn't work out the way he wanted. The center refused him because his blood pressure was too high. - I was unable to donate today. It's my blood and that's very important because I take my blood pressure medication and I think I ate bad yesterday. - [Interviewer] But then it's a financial issue for you. - It is, it is. Luckily, it's not life or death. It kinda has to do with not-as-vital stuff, so. But I might have to ask a just for... I mean I'll take care of it soon and I'll be able to get my blood pressure straightened out. That's why it's good for - [Narrator] We accompanied him to a small subsidized apartment that he's been living in for a year. - Make yourself at home. When I had my stroke, it was about three years ago. I went into the doctors. To be quite honest, I was drinking a lot. I was doing drugs. I was combining a lot of bad stuff. So the next day I went which is one of our really And the word with people that is you get rated and when you get rated, it means you can basically and get health care. And as we are qualifying, the lady, she was like, &quot;Oh, yeah, you're way I'm like, &quot;Way below?,&quot; there's below and way below. So that was an eye-opener. (lively instrumental music) There are times when for my own self-esteem, I don't want to accept help. I wanna be able to say, &quot;No thanks, but no thanks.&quot; Doing Octapharma, it's kind of easy money and it's necessary, at least for me, it's necessary. (man singing) - [Narrator] For Mark blood is his last source of income. (acoustic guitar music) If he got sick, he could no longer donate. He'd have no income. But all these blood donations are affecting his health. David Margolius is a largest public hospitals. MetroHealth is the safety We take care of people, regardless of their ability to pay. For a lot of our patients and the people that we take this is one of the few strategies that they can use to get money. - [Interviewer] What about the long-term twice a week? - I couldn't find describing what the effects were. I know from talking from who do donate plasma that they're tired. So they get fatigued. They have headaches. But beyond that, all I know is the Red and these guys are doing it twice a week. We talked to this my patient, he might not be able to afford and that is more important then the downside effects of donating because he doesn't have a cell phone, you can't get a job or he can't pay his bills then he'll freeze. So this is the dilemma that we're in. Yeah. - [Female Narrator] What while doing something great for others? At Octapharma Plasma, you can. Not only are plasma donations vital to the treatment of rare, you could also - [Narrator] The USA is the world's main exporter of human plasma with 70% of the world market. Their success is based by building on this type of campaign, they nurture an image of a country with excellent sanitary conditions. (electronic instrumental music) The market is under the supervision of the Food and Drug Administration. The FDA stamp is a guarantee of quality, opening the doors to the Each week, frozen plasma is dispatched in shipments mainly to Europe. This is the other side masses of poor people They provide an unlimited We wanted to understand the conditions in which blood is collected. 7 AM in Cleveland, in the parking lot of Octapharma. - I can't do it no more. Best to ask the other people. Meanwhile, I blacked out. I don't wanna do that no more. I just (mumbles) and I didn't eat before I went in, but it almost killed me. So I don't wanna do that no more. I got a job now. Praise the Lord. - It's worth it. I'm providing a product. I'm like a cow, I'm giving milk. - [Narrator] These stories and inadequate checks. However, Octapharma assures that the authorities that there is strict donor monitoring. But if that's the case, why didn't the Swiss company let us enter? Why did they prevent us How are its donor selected? To check, we had to go and see for ourselves with a hidden camera. This is what we discover inside. Machines interrogate the donors. The volunteers answer at electronic terminals. One single physical examination, measuring blood pressure. This is mainly to avoid while donating blood, which would slow down the entire chain. Not a single chair in the room is empty, an empty stream of donors after the donation. 12 hours a day, seven days a week. In view of such summary checks, everything is based on what people say. Paid donations entail a certain risk. They encourage donors to Such compensation also that sometimes has secrets to hide. - Yeah, lying. (mumbles) doing that. That's where people (mumbles). Have you ever been to jail? You got to give them (mumbles). What do you get? (mumbles), weird question. But basically you are. You know, right? You know what I'm saying? - Yeah dude, this computer ask you. No, no, no. Who would say know if I was lying when I said my tattoos is over two years old? It looks like it's part of the bricks, but it actually ain't. It's what I missed and it blew the vein up. It make you look like you're Just saying the entire no. People go over there, they getting the money, using it for drugs. But who am I to judge the next person? Last summer, the big thing around here is K2. So, it don't show up. Even if they was to test no for drugs, it don't show up anywhere. It's gonna give you that nice high for about three to five minutes and then you're chasing it again. So, you got to wait to back to Octapharma Plasma. It's free money. I give up this plasma so I can get that fix. I feel everybody wins. That's the way I see it. - [Interviewer] Do people selling drugs, they are used to this? - They love it because, simple fact, that means while Octapharma is there, even if it's somewhere else, their clientele got somewhere to go every time to make some money. Okay, listen. You give me your card, you're Octapharma card, and I'll give you a bag of toon-see 'cause I know when you go, it's gonna get loaded on there. I'm gonna make sure that you go though because I'm not gonna I'm gonna drop you off in there, I'm dropping you off there and make sure that you get in, do your paperwork, and then I'm a lead 'cause I know I'm gonna get my money for sure. Now when you're done, you can come back again. We'll do the same process again. (hip hop music) - [Narrator] And this is attracts the drug business, and all that goes with it: trafficking, exploitation, Is Octapharma aware of all this? We wanted to ask them if they noticed traces of drugs in their donors plasma. But it's still impossible to get access. Tensions rise. The security services asked us to leave, which we did. Why was our presence - They don't like us to - Yeah man, you know why? 'Cause they all doing something that, they doin' something that - Yeah. - Okay, I don't know what but for you guys to be out here professionally with your cameras to interview this place, I mean, what do you got to hide? (police sirens wailing) - We're doing a TV documentary about plasma and plasma donors. - Sir, they called and complained that they felt like you are harassing the donors coming out. - Management just advised advised of trespassing, which means if you walk they will have their security site charges against you guys for trespassing. - [Interviewer] Okay, that's fine, that's fine. Thank you very much. - [Policeman] Thank you guys very much. - [Interviewer] Thank you very much. - [Narrator] Back in Switzerland, there are many questions about and concern about donor's health. Does all this affect the drugs we use? What control do we have First of all, we wanted to see Tamara to show her our images. (man speaking) - [Narrator] The Swissmedic that the plasma for Swiss drugs didn't come from paid donors. - [Narrator] In industry terms, the money paid to donors is compensation not payment, a play on words. In Germany, for example, donors may receive a small fee, which is limited to three times a month. But the fees offered in enough to let the poorest survive. - [Narrator] The plasma masterfile, a several hundred page document in which the origin of countless technical details, but nothing about the reality. Visibly, the Swissmedic experts don't know more about it. - [Narrator] Does it make to ask so few questions? The industry hides behind trade secret, keeping the authorities in the dark. The Socialist congressman, as an expert in the Swiss health system. He finds the pharmaceutical unacceptable. - [Narrator] Opacity, To what extent is public health What threats does it post Jean-Daniel Tissot, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine has long been head of Although he was generally reassuring, he pointed out the risks. - [Narrator] Zero risk doesn't exist as we are reminded by the scandal of contaminated blood that hit Europe, including the Swiss Red Cross and France. After the scandal, sanitation checks were The plasma pools are that are said to be highly efficient. - [Narrator] Jean-Jacques Huart He's head of the blood center the largest transfusion center in France. He's one of the people traumatized by the blood contamination scandal. - There's no climbing out of that and it makes no sense. They let people in. People are going in and it's sad. - [Narrator] Today the checks at least as known risks are concerned. But if there was a new it could spread more quickly To reduce these risks, wouldn't the best way for each country to produce its own plasma? That would be preferable, according to the World - Self-sufficiency is that WHO promotes in terms of the goal that countries The goal is not self-sufficiency, solely for self-sufficiency sake. It's because systems tend to be safer and tend But there are many parts of the world that are not self-sufficient and have to depend on outside sources for blood donation. So for us it's an aim that much of the world but we're not there yet. - [Narrator] However the importance of self-sufficiency, the world market isn't following. The USA is exporting more plasma and soon Europe won't be able to do without this cheap raw material. - In many parts of the world, they've made decisions to, particularly in Europe some Scandinavian countries, France, are making decisions to basically privatize or to move these types of donation systems. - [Narrator] Despite the the experts cannot rule out This fear for health care is a main feature of the news in France. In July 2015, Octapharma obtained the The Swiss market was and the drugs derived from it to all French hospitals. Until then, the French blood Center had the monopoly. This intrusion is worrying the director of the powerful - [Narrator] Market liberalization, increased sanitation risks. What does Octapharma have to say in response to these fears? After many months of investigation and countless requests, the company still refuses any interview. We went to their headquarters in the Canton of Schwyz. - [Man] Would you mind stop filming please on all properties? - Well, the best thing to do, is if you could leave the and then as Thomas said, we will consider your through the appropriate channel. - Okay, so you will answer my questions? - [Man In Blue Suit] We - You just said that. You will answer our questions. - [Narrator] Upon the police's request, our camera men left the premises. The head of communications asked us to ask our questions in writing, promising us he pass them Clearly, nothing is decided without the founder and single The company doors closed to us once more. We had a long list of questions, not only with regard but also the company's methods. On the plasma market, Octapharma isn't the but it's sales have already and are soaring. It's business practices have often aroused the authority's suspicions. - [Narrator] At the end of 2015, the former Portuguese prime minister was arrested for corruption. He allegedly received when he was a consultant in Brazil, where the Swiss company was involved in a huge case known as Octapharma is suspected of bribing Ministry of health officials. The case has still not been charged and the company continues Such political connections are worrying the French Donor Association. Monsellier has first-hand experience of the Swiss company's - [Narrator] When we Octapharma promised A few weeks later, the head of communications informed us that none of them would be answered without explaining why. There was only one solution left, travel to Heidelberg, Wolfgang Marguerre's home. (doorbell ringing) - [Woman] Hello? - [Narrator] Wolfgang He asked the police to let us know. - [Narrator] So our questions the origin of the plasma, it's payment, the risks linked to donor property, drug detection, and the Why doesn't Octapharma provide any answers to the questions of Tamra and thousands of patients? (acoustic guitar music) (boy rapping) On Cleveland's sidewalks, these questions seem derisory. (police siren wailing) will always be a lesser evil to those with no choice for as long as people in Europe and elsewhere need plasma, the pharmaceutical industry - Just America, everything is a big corporation out here. And without money, nothing moves. You see when the market No government checks. So what can we do? Octapharma might still be running. Let's go get a couple of dollars out of them right quick. Tap this arm real good. Let's give them what they want, so we go get what we want. (horn blaring) - [Narrator] Mark was relieved. He can finally give his plasma and he received $20. - [Interviewer ] How - It was pretty good. I wrote it down. It was less than yesterday. So it was 129 over 82, which is pretty good. - [Interviewer ] What Do you want to go home and rest? - Yeah, I'd pretty much I don't know. I was thinking about might take a quick power nap, (chuckles) that kind of thing. - [Narrator] Mark and Tamara are connected by an invisible thread. The plasma industry means - [Narrator] The shift the blood of the poor going Look at you, brother Grab your things We're not safe here anymore No one can deny the obvious Hey There are vampires in my borough There's a fever in the blood