(bright upbeat music) - My name's Lawrence Gunther. I'm a professional angler, outdoor writer, podcaster, and just lover of the outdoors. I was first diagnosed blind but I was only missing my central vision. It wasn't until my early 20s that I became functionally blind. I was 25 years old when his name was Wicked. Black lab, beautiful dog, Having that dog meant I could keep my job, I could go to school, I could take night I could get around. I was losing my mobility. And to have a dog again It was fantastic. Since Wicked, I've had a It's been 33 years since then, and now I have no dog. Losing Moby last September You know, it's like your arm. You don't really think about it as being separate from yourself. It's just there all the time. And then you lose it. It's like losing your arm, it's not easy. - What would he do when he came home from work every day with dad - He used to jump around. - And then what? He used to howl and say (howling). - [Lawrence] (laughing) - Every day, every day. He'd get up on that land and turn around and look at me go, (howling) like, &quot;Job done!&quot; (Lawrence laughing) &quot;Harness off.&quot; - Oh my God, I forgot I miss that. All the kids, all my when Moby passed. You know, it's important that whole circle of life that, you know, nothing lasts forever. It's important that they but in the end though I and with the vet, and I was whispering in his ear just &quot;We're going fishing buddy.&quot; You know, not letting him so he would go off feeling peaceful. My family has another dog. That's their pet, little Dixie. She's 3 1/2 pounds, She runs the household and every guide dog that I've had in the If I'm walking the two dogs, and I got Dixie on the leash, And I tell her, &quot;No, you gotta let the 'Cause she doesn't know But it's pretty funny. CNIB is into guide dogs. They're 100 years old. They started the guide dog program. They told me they wanna make who live active outdoor lives And that's what Canada is. - We're at the home of the training centre, just outside of Ottawa, just near the town of Carleton Place. This is what was the indoor We've got this property now this will be a really world class state of the art training centre. - I'm an outdoor person. A stick doesn't always work Yeah, you can have your hiking poles and you can have your ski poles, but sometimes it's just great through the trails, get you down the dock, get you into those places where a stick just isn't gonna work so well. I need a guide dog that's tough, ready to rock and roll and I think a lot of people understand that guide dogs help But I don't think they understand that every dog is different. And every dog has its It's all about finding And that's what we're doing We're going through all sorts of dogs, getting to know the dogs, their strengths, their characteristics. And through that process, when they're all trained, I'll know which is the best dog for me. We'll come to that decision together. It'll be amazing. It's not common that to meet guide dog puppies. My kids don't know it yet, but we're having some They're just getting in from Australia, they're on their way to Nova Scotia. They've got a stop over here in Ottawa, at the CNIB Guide Dog School. Maybe someday, they might be (soft music) Over the past 32 years, I've They're all different, And they all have a And I wish each one of as long as I have, but Which means getting a new It's a tough transition, (upbeat music) - My name is Karen Hanlon. I am the manager of Canine at CNIB Guide Dogs. Hello puppies, hi? (cool music) (doorbell ringing) - [Lawrence] Hey, they're at the door. They're here you guys. (Lawrence chuckles) Puppies! Hello? - Oh, hey? - Hey, how are you? Come on in. - Oh my God, it's cold out there. - I'm freezing. I'll let you close the door. - Yeah, yeah come on in, - I don't wanna squish a puppy. (Karen laughs) - Yes. Very nice to meet you. (Lawrence mumbles) my hands full here. - Oh, look at that fluff ball. - Oh my God. And these little guys have - Are they? - Hello, Mike. - Hey, Mike, how you doing? in Canada (laughs). A lot of people ask us why we And the answer is simply we are such a young organization that we don't have our We plan to do that in the we wanted to ensure that were the best quality (soft music) And then this is the other little girl, - Aww. So she's quite pale. - Well look at this one, She just said, &quot;Come on in and get to know each other. And we got a hundred questions ask. - Oh... We do use exclusively Labrador retrievers and golden retrievers Simply because those are to have the highest success rate. - Karen takes care of all the breeding and the, and the placement the selecting of the foster and training those foster families. Making sure that those one-year-old dogs that come back, have the - So they'll start with just get them used to the family, get them used to their new home and pretty quickly they which is to socialize them. - Yeah. all over the place and get them used to that they will be - Yeah. - What we would like to happy puppy that's So they have been exposed to all kinds of different environments and situations to prepare them for becoming a guide dog. So these puppies they have no idea what they're supposed to do at mealtime. So we're just gonna start to teach them because when they're older, what they will do is learn to sit and wait until the whistle blows. So they don't know how to do that yet. (whistle blowing) There we go (chuckles). - There you go, there you go. - Keep your puppy at the bowl, so if they start to go away, So they don't go into each other bowls. listen to that sound. - Okay. Good. (background noise drowns other sounds) - We're really excited 'cause we... this is the first time where to like, enjoy the process 'Cause when we got our last dog, Moby, we were like... I was, I think five and you were... He was like... You were three, so we didn't really remember anything about getting Moby. So it's gonna be fun like, live the experience for real. - Karen, thank you so much. - You're very welcome. a great introduction to Well we're so happy. I know you don't do this for everybody. - Well it's a pleasure. And we had them here to their puppy raisers, it to just meet them and-- - I think it's important there is a process. - It's, it's all thought out, it's well calculated. - And it's everything's for a reason. - Yeah, yeah. my goodness, my goodness. And you can see now they've eaten. I bet they'll fall They're starting to really settle down. (laughing) - Well, Karen just left Man, and I'll tell you out of my kids' arms. I didn't even wanna let them go. Would have been nice if I and to be my next guide dog. But what's the chance of me The best match for me would so that's why it's that blind people raise their 'cause you never know how - My favourite puppy - The black one? - The black female, mine too. She was my favourite. She seemed to like dad too. She seemed to always go on his lap. - Just have to make sure you don't get in to anything. 'Cause they're so... Where are you going with your toy. It was great meeting Karen. My family sure enjoyed Wish I could have kept one though. We're down here by the It's all about outdoor We're gonna start with some Theo, over our favourite hill. And then we're gonna do a and we're gonna do some snowshoeing, and we're gonna do it and see what they think about all that. (soft music ) My goal is to introduce to some of my favourite In the past I would train my guide dogs to do these outdoor activities myself. Now I get to train the trainers. First up is Lewis. An all black Labrador He's 13 months old and Lewis has about three weeks of actual guide dog training He's got a lot to learn. He sure seems playful. The second CNIB guide dog training, joining us on this cold Sherman is a yellow Labrador retriever, is 15 months old, weighs about 38 kilos. He also has just under a Sherman seems like a pretty chill dog. He's also quite tall, which is something I'm used - Today we're here with Lawrence and Lawrence is obviously There's a lot tobogganing and The important thing for us we want a dog that's gonna So I'm here today really to see how they're react to the deep snow. Is this something that really enjoy doing. And if he does, we'll take it from there and do some training with it. (soft music ) - So what I wanna do is I like that, make it that long. - I'm just gonna loop it And then I'm gonna take them up the hill. - Are you gonna come - Yeah, just not the whole thing, just a little piece. - Yeah, just to see what he thinks. (mumbles) how he reacts to it. - Come on Sherman. Yeah, let's go (laughing). Whoa, whoa (laughing). Good job, want to do it again? Going up the hill, he was pulling real nice and steady. Wasn't jerking me, was following Theo just beautifully. And coming down he was just - Yeah. - It was quite a fast walking dog, yeah? You know, I'd call her a - Yeah. - And so now the thing Any dogs that we think might be possible matches for you, - Is to bring them into these sort of environments, - Get them familiar with it 'cause no one would be saying - Sherman definitely, he took to it. I think he's done it before maybe? But he was definitely not a problem. Sledding with Sherman was pretty cool. I think he really enjoyed the activity. I'm sure with some practice in time, Sherman would follow me without me even having to hold the leash. Our next activity is snowshoeing. - As you're walking, the best advice I could give you is, get hold of the leash when you can. - Yeah, it does give it a little pull. - Gentle talks. yeah, I got to keep - Yeah. It's just a matter of practice, right? - That's right. It's sniffing at the back of the snowshoe. So well, the thing to do I'll be right behind you, - All right, sounds good. Mummy, we good? - All right, come on Lewis. (soft music ) Here you go. Handsome boy Lewis. No, no come here. Don't get in the front. You don't get the trail - That's just following - Yeah. so that's quite nice. His tail's gone so he's His head's down, he's (soft music ) He's not pulling, he's not trying to get in front. - Some training doesn't take too long to get him walking nicely. - There is property in the field too. - Yeah. (soft music ) - Where is mom and dad Lewis? Huh? You did good buddy. I am optic. - Hello Sandra. - Hello Lewis. (laughing) - This is dense snow here. (background noise drowns other sounds) - You need, you need snow shoes. - Oh my God (mumbles). (background noise drowns other sounds) - That's excellent. - He's been really, like most the time if I pause, - He pauses. - And, and, there was a where he wanted to, he wanted the trail. He wanted to get into Anne's trail, and then he realized he without getting into my toes. So he surrendered the trail to me. - Yeah. Like who gets the trail? - Who's gonna have an easy life? - Yeah, who's gonna have it. - It's interesting when your set off is in deep snow, - And then it suddenly clicked if I walk behind down, - I'm on hard to pack snow. - So that's when they so it started deep. So it's up to his chest. - Oh yeah, no he worked hard. He worked hard but he didn't ever, he tried really hard not to get my way. - Yeah. - Like he was really good and you know a little bit not pulling too much, no I mean sometimes he'd wanna go see it but really Lewis did very well with the snowshoeing. Even though Lewis and Sherman seemed like two totally different they were both quite comfortable I like them both. - Quite unusual day for They're not used to this And we're asking a lot of these young dogs because we want them to behave, we don't want them pulling or But at the same time, they're not guiding, there's no harness. There's no clues in the environment for what we're expecting of these dogs. - Two great dogs. - I'm damn delighted to think how young these dogs are, - And the progress we've seen. You know, by the time you got back to us you're absolutely right. It could see us, you but he was happy being with you. - Yeah. actually almost beginning which could take weeks. (background noise drowns other sounds) There's lots of outdoor activities I enjoy doing in the winter. Next on my list is cross-country skiing. - This is a, is a great training exercise. - Yeah. - Probably she's never even seen skis before. - So yeah, - I'll be behind you and - All right. - The tail's wagging. yeah he looks a new. - No, no. (Andrew laughing) Didn't take long for Sherman to remind me that he's still a very Kinda could tell that's funny. (Lawrence and Andrew laughing) There he goes big guy. Come here, come here. - Keep going. - There's the ice. - To be fair to Sherman, this fall was more the It's good. Oops (grunts) Oh boy, here we go again. Are you sad? Are you sad I'm falling down, huh? We finally get skiing along nicely, and well Sherman had - Sherman. Whoa, whoa, hang on. - Sherman come here, come here. - [Lawrence] We're good. - [Andrew] Good, he'll get out your way, there he goes, well done. - That was really good. Oh no, no, no, no, no (grunts). - You can see that well, there's no way he can guide you here because you've got a big wide expanse. - Yeah. there's no building line - Yeah - There's no curves to aim for. There's no side-walk - So this, and he's not in his harness. So there's no, there's no attempt to guide you whatsoever. - Well, what you need is to - Yeah. not to be sniffing where (Lawrence laughing) he's doing so. (Andrew mumbles) Oh, I know. - But he's comfortable without me. - I've never seen this before, so for me this is a new - Cross country skiing he's still at the very beginning Next up for cross A 17-month-old golden retriever, who's nearing the end of I'm hoping this time things - The protocol is that as dog's on your left? - You don't want the dog coming anywhere near the tracks in case he wrecks them. - I don't want the dog pulling me, and I don't want the dog If they're front of me, If there's always beside me or a little, just a little bit behind, 'Cause they're following then. - Yeah, I'll let you - Sounds good buddy. - Okay, see you in a minute. (soft music) - So I know where everyone is. All right, I'm set honey. - Don't forget, he's always and suddenly he's on my right. So don't worry, you think he's going just let him go 'cause I've got him. - All right, I can just open my hand and then the leash pops out. All right, we're good? - Okay, how exciting is this? - All right. - Nice and steady. (soft music) (bell ringing) Get rid of some tension. (Lawrence laughing) - But he's good to go? - Oh, yeah. This dog has not pulled Absolutely amazing. (soft music) - Good fellow. Good boy, go on then. Let's go find him. Come on man. - Good fella. Good boy, Piper. What a good dog. Good boy, wait. Good man. - Well, you can't beat that. - I gotta give this guy a treat man, 'cause that's fantastic. There we go. There we go, good boy, good boy. - So what was your reaction? I mean, I'm thinking that it's great. What's your reaction? How did you feel? - He, this dog is fantastic. I mean, he's just the perfect heel. He lets me know he's Even if he falls behind as soon as he feels the tension - I love it, I love it. - And I know if something I break a stick, something happens then I need to get help, - Yeah. Now, time for another of my favourite outdoor winter activities, ice fishing. I'm meeting up with Karen and Andrew on the frozen Ottawa River. Karen and Andrew brought First, meet Vincent. An all black Labrador Vincent is the brother of Lewis. Vincent seems a little bulkier Our other guest is Dunstan. Another yellow lab and who I had the pleasure of sledding with. Dunstan seems as chill as but a little more lanky. So hey, let's go do some fishing. Let's drill some holes. See these dogs around the auger, and see how they like fishing. I got my buddy Jason - Jason! - Oh there. All right man, let's do it. Let's go. - All right, you're ready to go here? - All right. - Throttles on? - All right. - Okay you guys, this is So just stay back with the dogs for a bit and then just see what they think. (auger thumping) I wanted to expose the two of a gas ice auger. It's important that a or anxious due to loud sounds. That's good, what do you think you guys? - [Andrew] No worries, no problem at all. - Yeah, no worries at all. - He's was running towards it. - Yeah, he wants to see He's looking, yeah. - Vincent, is there (Karen laughing) Turns out both Vincent and at all by loud sounds. Fishing is not catching. Fishing is waiting, and - When you were telling you lead a very active lifestyle - Yeah. I didn't think you meant for hours after hour just - So you're saying that fishing - Fishing is very relaxing - I'm pleased how well Vincent With so much to see on and with the noise of ice they both seem quite at home. That's five great CNIB the pleasure of meeting They're each different in their own ways, but they all seem like they'll - That's great, you guys. Thanks so much - For letting me do and to show this experience to them 'cause it's important to me. And I think it's important that spend time on the ice. You look around here and you can see it's quite a popular activity. - You are not kidding. like this all up and down the Ottawa River. - Just ice huts and ice anglers and they bring their and it's something to do in the winter. - Yeah absolutely, yeah. - Something new to us, - Very much so. Thanks - Thanks for your time. - Okay bye. - Fantastic, safe journeys home. - Yeah, thank you. - See you boys. (soft music ) After a long winter, we're My family and I will be and CNIB guide dog trainees. How's things going with you? - So far so good but the bad news I have to tell you is that I - What happened to Vincent? - Vincent unfortunately has - No. - When we were ice fishing with Vincent and I drilled that hole in the ice and he put his whole head Right away I thought, there's a dog that's curious about fishing, right? Vincent had that little So yeah, I kinda liked him. - So it's not a training issue, it's more temperamental issues. So we just gotta do to be honest. - I've got some nice dogs - All right, it'll depend. - Hi guys. (soft music ) - With us today is We've got three dogs, we're through the Gatineau Hills Do they follow? Do they pull? Do they, are they distracted? Do they wanna be at the front? All of these questions Anne's gonna lead the pack and I'll switch dogs every - All right, let's do it. - It's a big break from city sidewalks, where they've been training for the last two or with the buses and the Now they get to get out in the bush. (soft music ) They're excited, we're all excited, but the dogs are excited and He's a natural leader. - Right at the beginning, you can hear Lewis breathing heavy because he's desperate to get in front. - Hey, hang on. Heel. Sherman, heel. Heel. (soft music) All right, come on, come on. After hiking with Sherman for a while, I switched over to his brother, Dunstan. - Dunstan is a far more relaxed dog, - Yeah. - Wants to chill a little bit, see what's going on in the world. Wants a coffee - Watch the world go by. - Yeah, let everyone do, let someone else do the heavy lifting. - They do all you want to do and I wanna take it nice and steady. (Lawrence laughing) - Where you'll go all day. - Okay, let's change. I'll take Lewis, Lewis follow me. And now it's Lewis's turn. (soft music ) - Heel. - See straight away - Oh I know, it's like we're-- - Always I'm the boss and Once he's done the routes - And he knows it. - He is confident, alpha male (soft music ) It's a long, it's a nice warm up. - That's good. - Few too many hills. You told me there was no hills, I've counted at least three. So you've had a chance - Yeah. - And really with Dunstan, what was your thoughts on Dunstan? - Dunstan is really just &quot;and make sure the coast - Yeah, he's laid back. And then come to Sherman. - Sherman is just beautiful. I mean looking around and he wants to be in front of the pack. - Yeah, what about Lewis? - Lewis has a little tag too, right? Like him and Sherman would go toe to toe. I mean, in a race. - And you'll be what to They each wanna be in front, they each wanna be the alpha male. They each wanna show you who's boss. - You know, this is nothing about guiding. This is about playtime It's not a... I can't make any sort of speculation on what would be a great guide dog. 'Cause there was no harnesses involved. - I'm not gonna discuss it in any day. So I've got ones I think this would be a good dog for Lawrence. - Well, we're not done yet? - No we're not, no, no. - We got some canoeing with my friend. - Not me. (soft music ) - Off to Mooney's Bay to Max Finkelstein, to do some canoeing. Andrew, this is Max Finkelstein, he's a good friend of mine. - Hi Andrew. - This guy has canoed more of or paddling around this Max, thanks so much for coming out and helping out with this. I know you're a dog lover and I couldn't thought of a So let's get him in the let's get him in the canoe then. (soft music ) Come on Sherman, jump. - There you go. - He's never done that before. (soft music ) Now everybody in the hands of the gods. - Okay Sherman, we're - Are you ready to paddle, Lawrence? - Yeah, all set. How is he looking Max? - He's sitting down, - Nice. (soft music ) Is he drinking out of the lake there? - Yeah, he's drinking, yeah. (laughing) He's doing just fine, he's relaxed. - Yeah. (soft music ) Okay Sherman, come on, Good boy (laughing). Can't get moist better than that. - I know eh? - Considering it's his and I was well impressed. - Yeah well, that really was fabulous for the first time. - Here's Lewis. - Oh, you got Lewis? - Yeah, very good. - Lewis came to see you. - Hello sir, you wanna get in there? - Good boy, okay. - What a good dog? - Yeah, he's moving a lot less. - Yeah, less than Sherman. drinking the water. - No, let's go, let's just take this dog and go for a trip. Come on, you and me Max. You, me and Lewis. - This dog is amazing. (soft music ) - Come on Lewis, out you go. - That a boy. - [Andrew] I've gotten him, Max. Thanks very much. - Yeah he's a nice dog and - I think the fact that to jump over things, right? I mean guide dogs should It's just bad practice to jump and have the blind person So they step nicely. - The interesting thing for me is that these dogs aren't even in harness. - Yeah. - So they're not guiding, if the dogs were, you know, running a bit silly and playing with each other as they're not working. - But to see dogs just and your gestures when they're just on the lead. - I think I was absolutely So really, nothing has I can tell you. - Well, man you should be proud. You were training truly Canadian dogs by the looks of things. It felt great to be back in a canoe after such a long winter. I'm super impressed how did in the canoe. (soft music ) Hey Theo? - Did you put the plug in the boat? - What plug? - The plug to keep the - Which one? - Theo if you drift off, you know how to start the boat, right? - Maybe. - Getting out on the water and fishing is a big part of what I do. Sometimes it's just the catch and other times it's a catch I've got three guide dogs and training from the CNIB here with me. People enjoy reading my when I'm speaking about My next guide dog needs to and on a fishing boat. We have both Lewis and on previous outdoor adventures. And for the first time young Marion is a 13 month old and I'm told she has Welcome aboard my boat. We're gonna take these dogs out for a little boat run - And a little bit of fishing today. We're gonna teach them how - Yes. when you're fishing on a boat as the dogs like to snap at the lures. - Right. - And then we'll introduce them to big motor sounds a little - Excellent. - Good thing I brought the big boat. Lots of room for three dogs, The lake itself is pretty small, so there won't be any big So let's test these dogs out and see how they like a boat ride. - Ready? (boat propping) - Hang on to your hats you guys. - So what do you think? - So far so good. - Yeah. - I thought (mumbles) It's all three out of us - Excellent job. - Good boy. - He's looking at you is he? - Absolutely. Couldn't care less. - This is Dunstan? - [Karen] Yeah, that is Dunstan, yeah. - He's, he's nice and - [Karen] Yes, oh yeah. - Yeah, he's a lot better. - Yeah, it looks like he's feeling good. - Just know he's at rest. - [Lawrence] We did the big motor test. What do you guys think? Are these dogs good for it? - I just keep repeating myself. And I'm just so impressed with these dogs. They've all taken that in this ride. - Yeah. - Not one of them is concerned, you've got two sitting up, one lying down. - You know I've had dogs that have reacted to different types of motors and clacking and cranking. And you never know, right? You never know how they respond. It's, it's disappointing and the dogs afraid of the train sounds, - The wheel sounds on the tracks. Or we're on a plane and the on the plane, - You don't know until you do it. So you know what I wanna do next is, I wanna get a lure onto one of the rods and I'm gonna cut the hook off. - Yeah. pretend it's a lure and I'm casting and we're It's so important that these dogs never bite a fishing lure. And you hear about it all the time, dogs coming into the vet with Because, you play catch with a dog, with a ball or a stick, and they see that they as if you're throwing it, and Now, time to assess how To be on the safe side, I've removed the hooks No, this is mine, mine. - Nope, nope. - Good boy. - Now, I'm just gonna turn my back on. I'm gonna let it hang there for a sec. - Good job. - [Karen] No they're not, - This is who? Lewis? - Let me cast back and forth. - Pretend to cast a bit. (soft music) - [Karen] First time I ... Good dogs. - [Lawrence] Ah I think they did well. - [Karen] Really well, good dogs. - So if someone was doing that, - Yeah. what, what would you suggest they do? Like if they were doing that at home with a lure and their fishing rod. - I think I'd always be One's got control of the dog and one's offering the distraction. - Yeah. - And we sort of let them and we give them a treat, I would start using clicker Not with these dogs, - 'Cause they don't need it, - Well, you know what? I think that we're ready to catch a fish. Theo, you're ready to catch a fish buddy? - Yeah. - Well, it's all on your (laughing) Let's find out how each to a fishing lure being dangled at the end of the fishing rod. It's as if the three young trainees are more interested in than they are in fishing. With three of us Jason, Theo and myself, now fishing with real lures. I'm pretty confident it won't take long before we catch a fish. Oh! there's one. Fish on. - Spot on that one. Theo, get the net. - Wow. - Hey. - All right I got him under there. Okay, let's see. - [Karen] Okay, dogs are all looking. - What do you think guys? - What do you think boys? And girl, what if boys don't know. - Look at that. not to eat the fish. But this is the fish, this is Mr. Fish. That's why we come out here. - [Karen] Dunstan is most interested. He's wanting to kiss him - [Andrew] Lewis is keeping his distance, he's not sure of it. - So we let him go and - Yeah. All right Theo, let's get Here we go. - [Andrew] Good boy. - These are all great dogs. I'd have any one of these dogs Absolutely, none of them would They're not interested in the lures, they're not interested in the fish, they don't seem to get seasick, They're perfect dogs. (soft music) I'm really happy on how All the young guide dog (soft music) I'm just gonna get myself a stick, an old one. Anne's backing up the truck, as we hook up our camper. Little bit this way, more Whoa, hang on, straight back, another six inches, straight back. Okay, we're good. (soft music) With the dogs nearing completion of their guide dog training, I thought it would be a good with my family and go for a camping trip. Andrew and Karen allowed me to I had no idea which one it would be, until they showed up with the pup. I knew too that the time was to have that crucial on deciding which of those guide dogs would be my next guide dog. - This has been a long process. Trying to find the perfect dog or as close to the perfect dog First time I met Lawrence, I, was at his home with little puppies. So to go from that to all that we did with Lawrence it's been very, very interesting and it'll be really exciting to to see how it, how it goes from this point. - So we'll back over six I think a little bit Lawrence is a big dude. - So we need a dog that's gonna cope with that. - And I don't think Piper was the one to be perfectly honest. Lawrence, I keep saying he's a big man. He likes to have a rough He likes to get on the Some of the more sensitive dogs that would really be irritating. Dunstan, biggest problem there's been some health issues. But if we can get those and I'm hoping we can, then that will make a fabulous guide dog. He's got such good And then his brother, Sherman. - No, I'm watching Sherman And, boy oh boy. That dog was fantastic. - As was, as was Lewis too, right, yeah. I thought at one point that Lewis was asleep with - In the canoe yeah. Yeah, from the shore, yeah. We're looking at dogs like Sherman. The size of that dog, think you know. Potentially this could really work. We look at Lewis again, But with a great sense of adventure, always willing to please. He's always looking for something to do. So I think these two dogs are Well, we had Vincent as well. I thought it was a good but unfortunately, and temperamental issues And that dog just does - Yeah, he just doesn't... - He's gonna be a good pet. - We always get a dog in any group that does not wanna be a guide dog. There might be temperamental They might be frightened of traffic. They might be a bit nervous in crowds, whatever it might be. - So we're down to? - We're down to two, which is perfect. It's between Sherman and Lewis. - And Lewis. Both very strong they're big puppies. - If you don't know, with his left shoulder. So if there's a lot of or on the handle, - That could potentially be a problem. Lawrence is temperament, the the way he works with these dogs. Tell us the kind of dog we which is a big strong dog. - Blind people just don't You know, they just have roads and gravel roads and paths and boats and docks and things like that, and banks. And you know, bringing dogs is not a problem. They're brilliant, they're they're courageous, they're We need to be able to create So those people don't have to move to the city to get a because they can't bring to the rural communities. It's time for Lewis experiences his first campground dog park, make some friends, have a well earned run. Theo and I have some firewood to chop and a campfire to get ready for tonight. Chopping firewood takes a sharp axe. There's ways to do it I hold the piece of wood with and with the other hand, line I also have my own way of So there's lots of different There's teepees, there's log cabins. I like to use this kind of fire making, they use in wood stoves. So you take three pieces of sort of equal size, always three. Line them side by side by side, a little bit gaped apart. And then I'll put a couple more in 'cause I can fit them in here. I'll just add a couple more, Then you take your sort and you sort of cross them over. So you're just sort of building up a criss-cross sort of affair. And it's like a candle, right? I mean, you start a candle at the top, everyone thinks you have to That's wrong. You don't need to start I always tried to put the of wood pointing up and I'm getting smaller and smaller. Nice thing is we get the and then it just burns down. We don't have to touch it. And for me not having to touch it, not having to move it and as it's catching fire. I light it. We step back, 20 minutes You know, my family for the last six months. Lawrence, which dog? I like this dog, I like that dog. And, it's hard not to have favourites. It's really hard. So I'm looking forward to finding out which dog it's gonna be. All right, there we start slow. It's getting dark and time for the family to gather around the campfire, and no doubt plenty of talk but which guide dog Karen and Andrew might pick to be my next guide dog. - It'll be number five - 17 years. - Yeah, in 17 years, five dogs. - I've never experienced I don't have a guide but with the guide dog it's, I think it's the less servant - Yeah, but they don't know I'm blind. - No, they don't know you're blind? They just know that if I bang into stuff, I bleed and then they feel bad and they wanna avoid that. Dogs are amazingly sensitive and they wanna avoid unhappy moments. So that's why they sort of guide me around so that we're all happy at the end. Everyone's happy. I enjoy getting up early a hearty breakfast using (soft music) Over the last six months I've met a lot of CNIB guide dog trainees. I was able to introduce them from snowshoeing to canoeing. I fell in love with each at one point or another. Today is the big day. - The excitement has been palpable for about five, six, seven days. Lawrence had to say &quot;Stop it, &quot;we can't bring our hopes up. &quot;We can't try to guess - I'm gonna find out which of the young guide dog trainees is gonna become my next guide dog. I'm waiting for Andrew It's killing me. - Hi Lawrence, it's Andrew. - Andrew, how's it going, man? (Lawrence laughing) - Very well, thank you. - This is a huge day. We have made a decision. We have talked at length with the instructors, - And we've looked at all the issues that we are thinking that 'Cause you have a very different lifestyle to many blind people. You're out all the time. You're doing all these So we're trying to find a That will fit in with your fit with everything. - And we've made a decision. - So are you ready to see this new dog? - Yeah, I'm ready. I've been ready since six months. - I don't wanna keep teasing you. I don't wanna tell you which one is it but are you all ready? - Yeah, you know what? - It's a change, right? I'm switching gears here to all these dogs. - Now I'm like a blind guy getting a new guide dog. I get emotional about 'Cause I think these should of your life and all this - Yeah. such a buzz. It's like Christmas and So I get choked up, I really do. - Yeah. I still do. Well, I think the best thing to do now is to bring the dog at way. - So Karen's got the dog somewhere? She's around here with the dog? - Karen is got the dog and - Karen, bring it out (laughing). - Come on, Karen. - Here he is (laughing). - Oh he is pleased to see you. - Here we are. You got Lewis. - Oh Lewis (laughing). How you doing, buddy? - He is pleased to see you. Good to see you too, sir. This is what we want He thinks the world of you. It's a nice dog man. Karen, come here, thank you so much. I have to say I've been so for so long, right? And not trying to engage or You know, I had to put my needs aside and think about the guide dog school and the guide dog program. I'm lucky I got a great They're there, you know they got my back. But it's not the same, right? It's not the same as having a dog and just being able to go. They say, it's your best They're not lying (laughing). And in my case, he's not only And when I lose him, it's It's just gone and you miss it so much. - I think Lawrence is Number one to tell me, &quot;Okay, I'm going, I'm on &quot;See you later.&quot; (laughing) - Did you have any clue - I was kind of hoping it would be Lewis. I have to admit. After the few things like when we had the canoe out and it's all that Lewis is a born natural. - [Karen] He's an adventurer. - That's what I think. He likes going to new And he's an adventurer, I mean Lawrence could have had his heart set on a different dog. His family might've had their But as it turns out, I mean you could see the reaction, the dog as Andrew was saying, that dog is excited and - Well, I can't wait to get and be in the harness with my dog. I'm looking forward to that. I'm looking forward to And my, my independence in that way. Welcome home, buddy. - And now the hard work begins. - Yeah, yeah. This is the, this is just the end of the introduction, right? - Yeah, that's right. - Well, this is the end of my time with all the young guide dog trainees, but it's the beginning of my training with my new guide dog Lewis. (soft music) (computer voice names keyboard strokes) You gotta bring your treats, huh? Bring your treats. 'Cause we're going to go to work huh? (laughing) Let's get some breakfast first. You need to go out? Go on. Lewis and I have just finished with the CNIB guide dog trainer. We've had another couple We have been working hard to be certified as a guide dog team and Lewis isn't perfect after I can't help feeling a Karen and Andrew will be Even if we do graduate today, it doesn't mean Lewis's training is over. It takes time for a guide dog to learn the many different routes Nevermind mastering all the today though, it's all about the city. Guys. How's it doing? - Good, good. How you doing?. - Nice to see you. Lewis, Lewis. - What a good fella. He looks nice. - You know guys, I'm really - Yeah, what's the plan? - Well we're gonna get out along the canal into the ByWard market. And then back out of the market, then back into my neighbourhood. Have nice little spot I picked out for us to have some lunch. And then hopefully get some feedback from you guys, - And you'll be impressed - I have no doubt about that. - I wanna my, I wanna get certified man, So I get you guys off my back? - Oh, what we've seen so far looks great. I mean that was amazing You both just look so happy. - Yeah big smiles on on his face. - That's good in it when you Tails going. He's a happy dog. - Well, should we get going then? - Absolutely. Let's do that. - Come on Lewis, let's Good boy. Steps? Good boy okay, let's go. All right, good boy. Good boy. (soft music) We made it through the university campus and across the Rideau Canal. Once we get across these busy roads, the sidewalks are gonna Okay, Lewis forward. (soft music) Lewis right, let's go. Find the curb. That's a boy. Okay Lewis, left. That a boy, there we go. Okay, come on Lewis, forward. Ottawa's ByWard market is where I like to buy my sustainably harvested The sidewalks here are which means Lewis and I Lewis' job is to keep me from ignoring all the different It's a lot to ask of a 21 That's for sure. Right, find the steps. Steps, steps, right? There you go. - Good boy, good way forward. Good boy. Find me a chair, Lewis. Right, find a chair. Find a chair, find a chair. Good boy. - I was absolutely blown by how he worked. Particularly through the market place because it was so crowded. - He's so young, there's Dogs, smells, loads of people around. You just worked as a team so - I find he's, he's smart, but he's also emotionally Like, so you know, I know like if there's pressure going on, he rises to the challenge Like he doesn't cave into the pressure. He can take it, right? He can take it and you know, it's like a bit of a water - You could see that on that one stretch where he was walking a really wide sidewalk. - And then he realized the whole sidewalk was blocked by scaffolding. - So he looked at it and some dogs that aren't confident enough that maybe don't have as good initiative as he has, might've just stopped &quot;What do I do now? - But you just told him, come on, find the way sort it out and he looked and uses Came across to the right to the curb. You told him to go. He walked down the road. as far as he needed to very confidently got He heard the praise from you. - And he was so pleased with himself. - I say, if we come see you and we will in 12 months. - You'll you think today everything's wonderful but just imagine 12 months, he knows all your routines. You know, all his routines. You're settled in together. It's different again, it'll just get better And it's all this positive reinforcement that you're talking about. I wanna tell you this. I mean it sincerely, I am delighted to give you your ID certificate. - Oh yeah, you kidding? You do look guilty on it. They should have a Absolutely top class mate. And I mean it sincerely. - Congratulations. Absolutely top class. - Lewis, we got our card buddy. We're good to go. (laughing) We got our official Lewis and I could now go anywhere we want. Now I need to test Lewis to see how he does outside the city. Okay Lewis, let's pack up your buddy. Got your bowl, got your collar with your bear bell. Oh I need that, man. Don't wanna get eaten by a bear. Your tick puller, hopefully And oh, oh, little bit of treats for you when you're doing really good. We're good? We're good? We're good to go on our adventure today. Whoa, whoa. I don't think this is the right coat. I put on the wrong coat. Now this is my old green coat. He's been in boats and canoes but this is gonna be way out in the bush. And then we're going into bear country and wolf country and Should be interesting, This is Lewis's real first test. He's never been on a plane before. He's never been into the backwoods before. He's never been away from home for multiple days at a time before. So there's many firsts (soft music) - [Phone] Facebook, Facebook, Facebook. I'm looking forward to getting back into the bush myself and just reconnecting away from the sounds of the city. It's so nice when I can and just extend it out without All right, Lewis. Good boy, find inside. Lewis and I are off to Northern Ontario, for our first real wilderness adventure in the Boreal forest. This is my first time flying with Lewis . He sure seems comfortable on a plane. And now for a three hour drive, North of Sudbury on logging roads. No sidewalks up here. Just deer, moose, bear and wolves. (soft music) Yeah, you're bear proof now. You're bear proof (laughing). You're ready to go? Ritchie Falls Resort has been an operation for over 100 years. It's now owned and operated by a nearby first nations community. Lewis and I are fortunate to for the next few days. He'll also be sharing with us the indigenous knowledge of his community, as well as the changes to the surrounding forests and lakes. Forward, there we go. Good boy. - Lawrence. doing Matthew? - Very well, thank you. Good to see you. - Well, thanks for having me up, man. - Thank you for coming. - This is Lewis. - Yeah, he's the new guy. - He looks like he's anxious - We are, yeah, we are. - I think what we're gonna probably head to a small It's an unassuming lake. There really isn't a name for it. - It's just one of those lakes in, in, around this area that Perfect so. there's lots of those, right? - Oh, absolutely. I assume. little meal at those together, no problem. - I'm certainly hoping so. I mean knock on wood, but - All right. Matthew, Lewis and I travel as far as we can go in his before heading into the forest on foot. Beautiful walk through the Really set the mood. There's not a lot for deer to browse on in this forest here, right? - Oh, you're absolutely right there. There isn't much food And the two, if you look at the I think for the deer is - Yeah. - They don't cohabitate - Oh yeah? So where you see healthy you see a decline in moose population. - Yeah, really? - So moose are okay? They like this kind of forest. - Absolutely. - This is very, this is where a moose would go through. I mean, it's a perfect transitional zone. You have plenty of water plenty of brows. So yes, this is an - Have you had some forest fires up here? - Smaller ones that have been contained? Nothing that has been really - Do you think it's getting hotter? The summers up here, dryer? - Well, I definitely see a change. I know my people talk about it all the time. - Water levels fluctuating, - Yeah. before you could pretty by a clock. - And now, it seems that that it's hard to actually predict or even determine - When a season will begin and when the season will end. - Here in the middle of nowhere, came to this gorgeous little lake. One tiny little trail to get there. You wouldn't know there Matthew tells me this Lake was recently taken over by small mouth bass. (soft music) - Lewis seems to be enjoying himself here. - After a morning of hiking, it's time to meet up with Kyla Owl. Kyla is in charge of featuring a fusion of indigenous Bannock made with wild blueberries, fried potatoes and fresh fish. And tea made from chaga, harvested from nearby birch trees. (soft music) The sound of Ritchie Falls won't be long now before Lewis and I are snug inside a warm, dry cabin. - The sound that that and the first snowfall of the year is just making it. - Yeah, it is. - It's just making it an absolute magical moment. - I mean, what a way to - Matthew, this has brought Like I started this whole you know, being big brother who wanted to become guide dogs. And sharing with them, my I started in the winter - That's great. - I think that's brilliant. And you know, what do you think was the most memorable part for Lewis? - You know, I have to admit. When just coming on the plane, I wanted to see what he do about the plane and it turned out it And the van ride, no big deal. And the gravel and everything but I think walking with you and just the smells and the quiet and the it's something I It's just to be in that sort of intense forest type situation, normally we're on the water. Like we're boat launch back to the boat launch into the vehicle and the back home again. And whether it's a canoe it's, we don't spend So it was, that was magical the trees and the, the You know, all the life to all these different animals. I think, I think he appreciated that. I did appreciate that for sure. - You know what? We appreciated having both of you here. What an experience and just and see you two work together. It's absolutely wonderful. - Yeah man, thank you. Thank you so much for all. (laughing) - The hospitality here is just above and beyond It's interesting. I've never really thought about a guide dog school training guide dogs to be in the outdoors. It's something I just To be able to influence and that's gonna be across Canada. It's been a tremendous opportunity for me and a way I hope will help other people enjoy the outdoors like I do. Lewis is with me. All the other dogs I'm told They are all across Canada. Reliable Piper lives in Ontario with Larissa as her guide dog. Dependable Daisy now where she guides Sara. Big Sherman now lives in Gentle Dunstan as well a CNIB ambassador dog. Curious Vincent was and now lives with a And loyal Marion lives in I've learned that as much as he's also a very careful guide over rough forest trails He also has a very brave heart. Not once has he shied Simple things like fishing just like I did when I was Losing my sight over the years, has meant giving up a lot of things. Maintaining my connection to Having Lewis at my side to continue as an outdoor enthusiast. Thank you Lewis, for agreeing to be my (soft music)