- When you think about colonization, it is the strangest thing 'Cause conquering is one thing. You go to another country, you want more, you take you take the resources, That I understand, but colonization... I don't condone; I understand. But colonization is strange and you don't just take over. You then force the people to become you. That is such a strange concept. When you think about where I mean, they... You know, they did it in Africa, they... You know, they did it in Asia. And think about in India. Those cultures could not be And out of nowhere, the British Imagine what the Indians must (audience chuckling) Minding your own business, The next thing you know, the (mimicking hoofbeats) (fanfare) (audience laughing) Hear ye, hear ye! By order of her Majesty, (audience laughing) You over there! What is the name of this land? There's land over here? This is called &quot;India.&quot; Well, my good man, I'm here to tell you that India is now under (audience laughing) And I'm glad that I can tell you that India is exactly (audience laughing) No, no, no, I feel you're not I'm letting you know that by order of the Queen. Who is the queen? (audience laughing) The Queen, the Queen of England, She who was ordained by God. Which god? (audience laughing) God. The one true God. There are many gods, my friend. What is the name of your god? (audience laughing) There is only one God, and you too shall worship him! You want me to worship a god, but you don't want to tell me his name? (audience laughing) What are you talking about; There is Shiva, there is There are many gods. What is the name of your god? (audience laughing) His name is God! You don't know the name of your god? (audience laughing) It's just God. Is it like mommy or daddy? (audience laughing) You want me to worship your god, but you don't want to How am I going to pray Every morning, I go to wake up, and I pray like, &quot;Oh, dear god, dear god, I was hoping that maybe, No, no, sorry, not you, other god. No, no, other god. No, no, not... Wrong god, no, god. I was trying to talk to other... No, no, no, you're right. I should have asked for your first name. No, no, god, no, other God, please. No, god behind that god. No, not you today, god, other God. You're right, he told me you would know who I was talking to, and I don't... No no, other god, please. That god... No, no that god...&quot; Then I wonder why my prayers (audience cheering) How dare you speak to me like that! Do you know who I am? No, because you never introduced yourself. I have come here And I have never heard of Great Britain. Who gave you that name? (audience laughing) Well, well, well, we did. You call yourselves &quot;great?&quot; Isn't that a little presumptuous? (audience laughing) Shouldn't you wait for other people to tell you how great you are, huh? Shouldn't you just go around the world and just do good things, Then people go, &quot;Oh my God, Britain, look how great you are!&quot; (audience laughing) Well, I beg to differ. I believe we could do it We are Great Britain. Well, in that case, (audience laughing) No, it doesn't... It doesn't work like that! It doesn't work like that! How dare you speak to me like this? Look, you are the one who I was here minding my You came over here, telling me that things I don't know who you are. All I know is you are clearly crazy, okay? You're not feeling too right. And I didn't want to say anything, but you look like you're going to faint. In fact, it looks like Something is very wrong with your skin. You're not looking good, my friend. Maybe you should come down. We have a curry; we talk about this. What are you talking You do not look normal, my friend. I've never seen anybody in my life, okay? You look like you're playing hide and seek with the sun your entire life. I don't know what is happening, but that is not how a I can see your veins pumping You know how creepy that is, pumping, pumping, pumping, pumping? If I was your doctor, I I just go, &quot;What is How do I know; because That is how I know.&quot; Damn you, we are going to run this country whether you like it or not! We are not going to do You're a madman. We are going to take it! You're not taking... We're going... (mimics gunshot) She is all yours, take, take... You don't play nice; take. Hey guys, hanks for watching. Make sure to subscribe to my channel, so you can win cool prizes, and by prizes, I mean It's a free YouTube video, you greedy... Just click the video, man. Why do you want free