What's going on everyone? It's your boy Ethan, hope you're having a fantastic day. Back at MGM Springfield. They have another 10-25 game running. Gotta run it back from the last session, right? Things went really well. I'm still trying to get the permission to film, so I don't know when this vlog's gonna get posted, but when it does get posted, it's gonna be a banger of MGM videos, hopefully. I've never run hotter than a place here. It's just so sick. Five came in, 10-25. Definitely, you know, gonna force the $50 straddle on, so it should be a big game as always. I'll start running it up, Run Hot and continue this sun run I've been on it at this specific location, but let's get into the hands. I'm gonna buy in relatively deep, and I was told that the game's gonna get a little wild more than normal today. Let's see. Into the 10-25 game here with $30,000 in front, the second hand I get dealt. Once again, starting things off at MGM Springfield, I pick up Pocket Jacks in the cutoff. Action folds to me. I raise it up to $75, and every single player left to act makes the call. It looks like everyone wants my money, button, small blind, big blinder in there. We're off to a flop, which comes 10, 6, deuce, rainbow. Pretty good flop for me, overall, with the over pair. When action checks to me, multi way, I decided to size up a little bit, to 250. Action folds around to the big blind player, and he actually ends up check raising to $725. I've played with this player a lot in the past, so me and him have some history. I know he's very capable of bluffing, even though it's a little bit weird on this type of board, but with my over pair, nothing to do right now. I decide on just a call. Now going to a turn, which comes the eight of clubs, board a little bit more connected, but shouldn't be too concerning, and he decides to bet 2,200. What in the world? I don't think I'm able to fold just yet. Like I said, he can certainly get creative with some bluffs, and I don't know if I want to fold my over pair, and here we are with just one pair I'm going to make the call. Let's see a river hoping to see a brick. It is the nine of diamonds. So any seven makes a straight now. Queen Jack is the nuts though, and coincidentally, I have two jacks. So when he throws out a bet of $3,800, oh my god, he's barreling again and again. I don't think he's going to have a seven a lot in this spot here at all, and I think it's a pretty weird spot overall when he bets so huge on the turn. So I think with just one pair here, calling just seems totally out of the question, but I'm thinking potentially about raising here as a bluff. I double block the nuts, which would be Queen Jack, and let's just go for it. Start off hot. First hand in. He has about $12,000 behind this bet, and I go for it. I think all in is going to put a lot of pressure on two pair holdings, and even sets can fold as well. So I stick it all in. First hand, three deals in. I'm already all in for about 15,000 effective, and this player goes into the tank. Doesn't look happy. So I fade the snap call. He doesn't have a straight, which feels amazing. And now I'm just waiting on him to fold, and after some time thinking after some deliberation, he ends up folding. All right, that's sweet. Nice to pick up the first hand of the session with a big bluff. And just like that, right off the bat, I'm up a couple thousand dollars here already. In the following hand, we go the $50 straddle is on now, I pick up pocket sixes in the hijack. Player to my right raises to 150, and I make the call. So heads up to a flop, which comes five, four, deuce, two diamonds. He checks it over to me here, and this is a pretty good board for sixes, all things considered. So I decided to bet out on the larger side to 300, and for 300, he comes along and calls. So pretty suspicious of what he could be holding here. We're going to a turn, which comes a board pairing, deuce. He checks it over to me here and thinking that he can play a lot of over pairs this way, or don't think I can get that much value from an ace anyways. So I decide to check back. And when the river comes a three, bink city for me as any ace makes a straight, but obviously when I have a six, it's a higher one. He decides to bet now, and it's actually a pretty sizable one. He bets over the pot to $1200. And we're playing pretty deep against this opponent here, and I'm mainly just trying to think if there's any reason to raise. It's not amazing, of course, that the board is paired. I lose to full houses, but I just don't think he's going to have many full houses as played. He checked the flop, checked the turn, and now when there's four to a straight, he bets pretty large. So here I am. I decided to go for a raise, get a lot of value against an ace here. So I size up to a larger side of 4,500 thinking he'll snap it off with an ace, and I just get paid the max, right? Anyways, upon my raise, he decides to jam. He three bet jams this river, and I don't love this at all. After asking for a count, it's a total of 13,200 Back to back hands here. I'm put into a pretty tough spot, and I don't love it. Initially, the plan was just a fold to any all-in, but you know, when you're in the situation now, you don't really expect. Like I said, it's really hard to find full houses that he can have here. So here I am thinking that this opponent probably won't be overplaying just an ace. I don't think he'll be overplaying a six either, and it's pretty hard to have one as I have two of them. Anyways, after a long, painful tank, I decided to just give him the benefit of a doubt. Don't think that he's going to be jamming all in here with anything weaker than a full house, so though I don't believe him, I just fold face up, and he ends up throwing his cards into the muck, but does tell me he had pocket fours? All right, I have no choice but to believe him. Nice hand, I guess he had a full house, and once again, you can't beat pocket fours. Following that hand again to another dicey spot here, sitting with Ace Jack in the small blind. There's a hijack open to 150, button makes the call, and here out of position against these players, I think I'd rather raise than call this bet. So here I am. I size up to $750 trying to bump up the size of the pot, but mainly just trying to take it down pre-flop, but surprisingly, it gets spicy. Both players make the call. So three ways to a flop of Ace, King, 8, Rainbow. All things considered, this is a pretty good flop for me. I don't have the best kicker in the world, but sitting with top pair. I decided to check this one as I'm out of position in multi-way. Hijack player bets out 1,050, which is pretty sizeable. The button folds, and I'm definitely not going to be folding just yet with top pair. Decent kicker, this hijack player to note also doesn't have a whole lot of chips behind him as well. So I make the call for 1050. We're going to a turn which comes the three of spades. Brings in a backdoor flush draw, but shouldn't be too relevant as I have the Ace of spades. I check once again, and this player fires out 2300. This bet leaves himself with about 3000 behind, and overall, I think it's a pretty weird sizing. I think calling seems a little silly to not play for stacks here. As like I said, he bet about half the amount he has behind. So I decide to go for it. It's just one pair, but I think I'm ahead sometimes, and I don't want to fold this hand. So I jam. When I jam, he snap calls. So that snap call doesn't ever feel great with just one pair. He says he wants to run it twice, and I'm always very indifferent. So I agree with running it twice. The run out comes a king followed by a jack. And guess what? It all just doesn't matter as this player had Ace king flopped top two pair. And I was already stone dead, rough hit for my stack, but nice hand to this opponent. Essentially all the profits I had the first two hands are now gone. Just from one hand, I doubled this player up. The game gets bumped up after this hand to 25-25-50. So not a huge difference, but no more red chips in play. And this next hand, I decide to blind raise to $100 as I occasionally do. There's an early position raise to $275 on a short stack. The button makes the call and action folds to me. And I peel pocket jacks somehow. Very well timed $100 straddle. Pretty sick here. And I decided to three bet and my sizing is usually about four times the raise out of position plus another 1X for each caller. So I round up his raise to $300 and size up to $1500. The early position player who raised ends up folding. Then the button thinks about it for a long time. And I'm not sure what he's thinking about, but he ends up jamming. What? Okay, well before I make the call here with jacks, I think it seems responsible to ask the dealer for a count first. So here I am, given how the action went pre-flop, I just don't think he'll have a hand better than jacks as played. And when the dealer ends up counting out $7600, it seems good enough for me to call. Granted, it's a large all-in, but sitting with jacks, there's no right way to play them. And I decided to call. He wants to run it twice. And once again, I'm okay with running however many times the opponent wants to. And when the first run out comes a queen, only one card over my pair. Just hoping he doesn't have Ace Queen. The runout number two doesn't come anything too crazy either. All bricks on the second one. And when I show my hand, he says that I'm good. So maybe he had Ace King, maybe a worse pocket pair, but overall, this was a pretty cool all-in to win. Pretty unexpected to ship over a $15,000 pot my way like this, but pocket jacks Sometimes it pays. So we're on a pretty action and fun table. And what's even better is that the 7-Deuce game is on. Whoever wins with 7-Deuce gets $100 from everyone at the table. So here, I have 7-Deuce of clubs on the button. There's an early position open to $150. Given he is the tightest player at the table, I decided to just make the call and play in position here. The big blind and straddle comes along as well. So we're going multi way to a flop which comes King, 9, 7, Rainbow, which is kind of cool sitting with a pair. Action checks it over to me and I'm mainly trying to bet to protect this bottom pair. Try to get folds as I can win this and an extra $800 around the table. I bet out $200, praying no one connected, but sadly, I get one caller. The player in the straddle is in there and we're going to a turn which comes a 5. Overall, pretty safe card. And when he checks to me again, I don't expect to get a King to Fold, but I am trying to get a hand like a pair of 9s or draws like 10,8 to fold potentially. So I decided to size up to $650 and music to my ears, he ends up letting it go. So I didn't get the value, quote unquote value of $650, but when I show and table the 7-Deuce, I do get $800 from the table and this is a pretty profitable hand. Ship it to me. The next hand, it's not 7-Deuce, but it is a premium, pocket Kings in the cutoff. I open things up to $175 and get some action. Button, small blind and straddle calls. So once again, multiway seems to be the theme of this video. The flop comes queen, 6, 6, two spades and when action checks to me, I think when we're multiway, it's cool to check a little bit more and mix in some strong hands to do it. So I decided to do that here. I check and that induces the button to bet out $250. Action folds to me here and definitely have a decision to potentially check raise now with my over pair or I can just play this a little bit more deceptively and make the call. So yeah, I decided on the calling option. I'm in there for $250 and see a turn which comes a nine. Going to check and play in flow and my opponent decides to copy me and check back. Going to the river now which comes the nine of spades. So pretty gross board. Flush draw gets there, double paired board. I check it once again, hoping to get to showdown, but when my opponent bets out $475, given this price, given the strength of my hand, I just can't go anywhere hoping to beat a queen somehow, but I make the call and he ends up mucking when I show the kings kind of expected to have the winner here all the time and just don't think my hand is strong enough to raise on this board. Things are going well here clearly just picking up premiums after premiums and here with ace queen offsuit, I'm in early position, raise it up to $175. This hand doesn't go multiway surprisingly as only the button makes the call. So now heads up to a flop of 10,3,3, two diamonds. Totally whiffed sitting with ace queen high thinking that I have some showdown, I just start off with a check, my opponent checks back. Turn now is the ace of diamonds, so that's a pretty good looking card sitting with top pair. Trying to get value from I guess maybe a 10 that checked back or maybe a hands that have one diamond in their hand, I decide to bet out $325 with top pair and a good kicker, and for $325, he ends up making the call. Nice to get some value here, the river is the 7 of hearts, total brick and I'm sitting with ace queen thinking my hand is certainly good enough for a bet and if this player has an ace, it's certainly going to be a smaller one than mine as my kicker plays and also I think I can get paid a lot of the time here so I decided to blast off $1200. Now my opponent snap calls, I show the ace queen expecting to win but he shows 8,7 of diamonds. Flops the flush draw, checks the flop, nails the flush on the turn and allows an idiot like me to over bet and blast the river, kind of value owned myself, I guess in hindsight I didn't have to bet so big but this guy seems so nice, I thought why not give him $1200. For the next interesting hand of the night, I pick up 7 deuce once again and you already know what's happening here. There's a lojack player who opens it up to $200 seems like a pretty big raise pre flop and I am next to act in the cutoff and I got to give myself the best chance to win so I decide to 3-bet this one to $600 there's a lot of value in just getting folds and taking down $800 here but unfortunately he makes the call so we're going to have to battle it out once again and the flop is king, 9, 7. Once again arriving here with a pair but this time in a 3-bet pot, thinking king high flops are going to favor me here but it should also favor the person that called as well so with a pair don't think I want to blast just yet action goes check check. Turn comes the six of spades so it's a card under my pair that can't be so bad and the lojack decides to lead out for $500 there's a lot of equity in hoping a pair of 7s is going to win I have showdown and if I call the 500 and win I also get like I said the $800 on top so I call 500 hoping to just see a river that doesn't change much it comes a board pairing 9. That actually seems pretty good so far and when he checks it over to me I'm happy to check this one back and my opponent announces ace high let's go win the pot here with just a pair of 7s I get to show the table and of course everyone isn't happy very very profitable hand there was a good amount of money in the middle there and on top of that I profit an extra $800 with the 7-deuce game. For the last interesting hand of the night I pick up Queen 9 of hearts doing it for all you Baccarat fans out there with the natural I raise it up to $175 and seems like we're playing a family pot because I get four players to call around welcome to the action here at MGM we're going to a flop five ways which comes jack, 9, 7, two hearts. Pair and a flush draw seems like a pretty strong flop for me but what's interesting is that the small blind decides to lead into the field for $350 big blind ends up making the call and we've got some action here you know I'm not going away don't think I want to raise this hand so I make the call and we're going three ways to a turn which comes a board pairing jack of diamonds not the nine that I wanted to see paired, but here we are, the small blind continues once again for $950 big blind folds and at this point it seems pretty clear that this player probably has a jack a lot of the time but sitting with a flush draw along with some equity with my pair if he doesn't have a jack I think it's an easy call here so I am in there for $950 pots building up here for the last hand of the night and it comes the bink eight of hearts, who's surprised? no one, because I run pure here at MGM Springfield, the small blind player bets once again this time 1850, sizing way the hell up and on this paired board I just think raising here seems a little bit ambitious queen high flush is probably the best hand but I'm not sure that I can get called by a whole lot if I did raise so I decided to just make the call he announces a jack and I'm not going to make him show anymore as my flush is going to win nice way to end off a successful night with a big pot at the end oh man the run here just continues, it's super late, the casino, or not the casino, the poker room is closing down right now as it closes around like 2:30 - 2:50 am just got everything I got the chips cashed, turning them into cash takes a long time every time the funny thing now what I do when I play cash is that after what the resort world session where I folded queens because I didn't want to like be up-stuck or whatever but now I never know how much I'm up or down throughout the session I stack my chips in like massive towers so I just don't know the counts and today it was a really lovely surprise I was in the game for 50,000, out of the game for 59,400. Always a good time here at MGM this sun run is continuing like I said I don't know when I'll be able to post this but when you see it I'm glad that you guys are seeing the footage and yeah man this game's a lot of fun I'm glad the cash game streets are going well and coming out making money is always the goal and it's crazy to win this much the past few times here at MGM it's been it's been a lot of fun so thank you for following along I appreciate you guys watching this thing to the end it's super late I'm gonna go home now I'm gonna go drive back home so thank you so much for watching this video thanks for sticking around to the end the hands are insane and I'll see you guys in the next one. Peace.