For centuries, Qatar was called by the Arabs, the forgotten land of God. Today, the whole world's eyes are on Qatar. Not a week or so goes by without the name Qatar, Qatar, Qatar, Qatar. Should we be afraid of Qatar? It is the story of a man, Emir Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani and through him the destiny of a country. Qatar. According to legend, it all started with a harmless remark. Hamad is not yet emir. He is young and traveling in Europe. At the airport, a customs officer changes his life when Hamad hands him his passport. The man does not know Qatar. He even asks her if this country really exists. That day, Hamad made a promise to himself: to put his country on the world map. Welcome to the laboratory of globalization. Where just 20 years ago, there was only sand track and desert. A monster has emerged from the ground in the Middle East, at the heart of all desires. No country in the world has experienced such dazzling enrichment since the 15th century or the time of the industrial revolution. No trace of growth as crazy as that of Qatar. Facing us. West Bay, a sandy beach ten years ago. Qatar has become essential. Song of the sirens. Qatar blindly attracts everyone for whom money is king. He is even accused of wanting to redeem the world. It's possible. But what world and at what price? In 2022, Qatar will welcome the entire planet by organizing the Football World Cup. Thanks to this, everyone now knows Qatar. Qatar is the will of one man, but it is also a family story, that of the AlThanis. In the name of God the Merciful, the most Merciful, in the name of our prophet Mihammed, his family and his companions. This is Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, this man was Emir of Qatar for almost 20 years. The birth of modern Qatar is dated June 27, 1995. That day, Hamad took power and deposed his father. Emir Khalifa, during a putsch without weapons or violence. Our country has experienced difficult circumstances which no longer make it possible to properly govern the country. This leads us, with great regret, to take control of the situation. I am taking the reins of power, succeeding my father, who will remain dear to us all. We all owe him love, gratitude and respect. For more than a year, investigator Pierre Pean and journalist Vanessa Rassinier. Work on the relationship between France and the Emirate. Hamad who overthrows his father. It's still pretty crazy since Hamad was crown prince. The country was promised to him. But he was in a hurry, in a hurry. For what ? Because first of all, he's afraid. He is afraid. Extraordinary things have happened in this region. It's the invasion of Kuwait in 1990. And so he's afraid in general, but he's especially afraid of Saudi Arabia. This simple map allows you to understand a lot of things. There is Qatar, very small, and then right next to it, Saudi Arabia, very large. Saudi Arabia which simply considers it a province. And then beyond the Gulf, another large country, Iran, in other words Doha, the capital of Qatar, is completely stuck between two large countries. And then Qatar, obviously, thinks it happened in this other little Gulf country Kuwait. And in 90, Kuwait was invaded by Iraq. On August 2, 1990, Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait. The international community condemns the Iraqi occupation and calls on the dictator to withdraw his troops in vain. Paralyzed. The hated oil monarchies of the Arab world then remember how vulnerable they are. Brothers, it is with emotion that we gather following the horrors caused by the brutal invasion of a sister state, Kuwait. On January 17, 1991, the Americans launched war to liberate Kuwait. They are supported by a vast coalition of nearly 30 countries, including Qatar. The whole world is seeing this war live on CNN, the world's leading news channel. CNN brings streaming events into every home on a platter. Viewers see the war through his eyes. To this date. Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani is not yet emir, but crown prince. He understands that the media influence the world and shape minds. He will remember it. Qatar and other Gulf countries have been roused from their slumber. The Iraqis did not want to stop in Kuwait. They could have continued to Arabia, Qatar or the rest of the Gulf. This showed the vulnerability of the smaller emirates and the importance for them to create ties with the United States. It was a traumatic event, traumatic because you have a small state which was very afraid, what happened to it, what happened to Kuwait. And it was from 1991, that is to say just after the liberation of Kuwait by the Americans essentially, that two major directions took shape , so to speak, for the future of the country. Between, between the father and the Son, we have two visions which collide. So we have, to simplify, the old guard of the emir with the generation of the emir and the young guard which is led by the young prince Hamad. The old guard was very wary of an alliance, concerning a strategic alliance with Western countries, and in particular with the United States, because they feared that there would be an occupation of the country. And you have the young guard who said that if the West, including the Americans, had strategic interests, particularly military interests, in Qatar, they have no interest in truly playing against Qatar's interests. The nature of the relationship between the Qataris and the United States is important. This is actually the first question that almost every country in the world asks themselves. What is my relationship with the United States? I'm completely aligned with them or trying to resist them, or I'm allied, trying to influence them. This is a question that every foreign policy asks , anywhere in the world, of course. In these post-Cold War years. The United States reigns supreme. Pushed by his son Hamad, Emir Khalifa has no other choice. Qatar signs defense agreement with the Americans. The United States is consolidating its presence in the region and becoming the protector of the Strait of Hormuz, where the oil that supplies the world leaves. In a regime of this region. If we are too ostensibly close to the United States, it is a double-edged sword. You're going to be blamed for it one day or another. So we have to do it. You need to have discreet, solid and strong relationships, but not too much. It has to be balanced by others. At the end of the Gulf War, there was a defense agreement signed between Qatar and the United States in 1992, and an agreement of the same type was signed between France and Qatar in 1994. A defense agreement . But this is not the start of the relationship between France and Qatar. These relationships are an old story. And so these relationships mix business, politics and armaments. Moreover, as far as weapons are concerned, the Qatari army 80% of its equipment is French. He's ultimately one of our best customers. He's one of our best customers. So France is an interesting point of support, but not sufficient either. So having a strong relationship with France in this Arab game or this regional game in the Middle East is a plus, a plus, provided you have the rest. But the idea of the Qataris is to cut themselves off from any relationships. It is having all the cards in hand in a territory which has only known foreign domination. Ottoman then British from 1916. Qataris close to the sea have always been naturally open to the world. Qatar, before the discovery of oil, lived from the pearl trade. They had to travel to India and Europe to sell them. It was a nation of sailors. Qataris have always pursued strategic commercial interests by trading with other cultures for mercantile purposes. At the end of the 19th century, the Al-Thani family established itself at the head of this region by playing the powers against each other. You have to understand tribal culture and clan culture. You cannot maintain yourself as a leader at the head of a tribe if you do not have the support of the majority of clan leaders and the majority of family leaders. And so there has been for a very long time an experience and almost an intelligence of power among the Al-Thani clan which allowed them to be the leaders of this tribe for a very long time. This system has always allowed the Al-Thani family to ensure its domination inside the country. And it's the end of colonization. All the great empires are disintegrating, the former colonies are becoming autonomous. Qatar declared its independence on September 3, 1971, when the world's third largest gas reserves were discovered under the waters of the Arabian Gulf. Too bad for the English, so much the better for the Al Thani family, but Emir Ali Al Thani is a monarch without ambition and scope. He will not stay in power for long. While he was traveling to his friend the Shah of Iran, the Prime Minister, his cousin Khalifa, Hamad's father, organized a putsch on February 22, 1972, after having rallied all the tribes to his side. We must act to remedy this crisis situation. Fallen Ali Al Thani went into exile in London where he died some time later. A graduate of the prestigious Sandhurst military school in Great Britain, Hamad returns home. He was appointed lieutenant colonel of the Qatari armed forces and commander of the first mobile battalion. His father modernized the country. Who says oil says rush of businessmen and technicians. And here, in Doha, the banks have grown as fast as the weapons. The money is coming in. Khalifa develops health, education and culture. He is a popular emir and a benevolent monarch. His motto is clear to live happily, let's live hidden. So he did not develop gas and Qatar's treasure remained buried under the sea. In 1977, Hamad was named Minister of Defense and Crown Prince. His ambition is growing. His generation is eyeing Dubai, unlike the emir. This youth wants Qatar to enter the light. Khalifa calls them to order. They need to remember where they came from. In 1967, on the eve of the Six Day War in Israel, De Gaulle, who did not subscribe at all to Israeli policy, established an arms embargo and made a 180-degree shift in relations between Israel and France. , especially between France and Israel. In the early 1970s, I was an oil journalist. I practically only go to Arab countries and it shows. We feel that in people's eyes, in discussions, Paris is no longer at all the Paris it used to be. And so in concrete terms, this will also result in contracts and the opening of markets for French companies. At the time, France displayed all its pomp for Qatar. At the Elysee, Khalifa is received with all honors under the gold of the Republic, a ritual facilitating business and captivating the emir who discovers the luxury of Parisian salons. Little by little, his travels take him away from the affairs of his native country and lose him in secret pleasures. Promises were made, programs were launched, but power extinguishes even the best wills. So, when the Gulf War broke out, Prince Hamad feared that Qatar would suffer the same fate as Kuwait. He is aware that his father, Emir Khalifa, has his mind occupied elsewhere. Above all, he holds control of the country's finances. Prince Hamad's conclusion is simple: he must depose his father. Hamad is supported by the army he has led for fourteen years. It also brings together the great chiefs of the main tribes. But now, to succeed in his putsch, he faces a major obstacle: Saudi Arabia, which supports his father. Saudi Arabia is the largest country in the region. The Saudis consider Qatar as a province and have never accepted the redistribution of the region following decolonization. Facing Saudi Arabia, Hamad could feel very alone, but he discovers a trump card. His cousin Hamad bin Jassem bin Jaber Al Thani is nicknamed HBJ. HBJ supports Hamad's ambitions and above all, he occupies a key position. He is Minister of Foreign Affairs to Emir Khalifa and very close to Washington. HBJ knew that Khalifa, the father, was preventing certain opportunities from taking place. HBJ has an investor's eye for the future and growth. He always wanted to increase investment opportunities. He knew that Khalifa was blocking initiatives and he saw Qatar's potential. For Hamad and HBJ, getting support from the Americans is not. It's not easy though. IF because Washington, as they are essentially on Saudi Arabia and there are nevertheless a certain number of people in Washington who regularly ask questions about this very, very close link and which may one day derive the fact to have another country which is so rich in hydrocarbons and especially in gas that it is entirely beneficial. It's all good for Washington. But to obtain American support for coups, you also have to give things? Qatar is going to let things go. And firstly the first Qatar proposes that on its country and a large American base the second, it is obvious. What Washington will ask for as its primary concern in the region is the security of Israel, it is that Qatar does something with regard to Israel. Otherwise can it go through recognition? An implicit recognition and the beginning of a relationship. And so Qatar will accept this deal. Which will then explain these very complicated relations which exist between Israel and Qatar. And there is also the question of gas exploitation. Washington always thinks and perhaps thinks first of its oil companies. So basically, to succeed in the putsch, Hamad and HBJ will finally concede to the Americans to participate in the exploitation of gas, to move the American military base to Qatar and to open relations with Israel. Absolutely. On June 27, 1995, Emir Khalifa, Hamad's father, was in Europe. Hamad took power from his father on June 27, 1995. He was 43 years old. For fear of being knocked down. Hamad and HBJ will never leave the territory at the same time. Hamad settles in the Diwan, the heart of power in Doha. From there, he shaped the image of an enlightened monarch. He adopted a new Constitution by referendum, granted women the right to vote, and established an advisory council. But beyond appearances, power in Qatar is concentrated solely in the hands of two men, Hamad and his cousin HBJ. A dictatorship with a democratic appearance. It's a completely new team. They have a fairly clear vision of the future of Qatar. It is a small emirate which is fortunate to have almost unlimited resources, therefore very large economic and financial means. But at the same time, it's fragile. It's a very small entity. There is Arabia next door, which has never quite admitted that at the moment Britain lets small entities become independent or organizes this fact. So Arabia considers it a sort of piece of Arabia potentially. And then besides that, there are two monsters facing each other and with more or less strength depending on the moment, which are Iraq and Iran. So it's not a peaceful region anyway. It's not a region whose future is completely sure. So the first concern of the Qatari leaders of this new generation is to secure that. The Emir really wants to boost Qatar's entire economy and Qatar's place on the international stage. And he will understand that the main factor, not the only one, but the main factor that can boost Qatar's economy and its place on the world political and diplomatic scene, is natural gas. It's a phenomenal reserve. The third largest gas deposit in the world, it represents 15% of planetary reserves. This deposit is almost as big as Qatar, but to exploit it, it must share with Iran. The two countries must work together. And Qatar quickly understands that dialogue with the enemy of the West is an additional card in its diplomatic game. Qatar is changing scale and adopting a national vision for its economy. And it is from that moment that we set precise objectives, including quantified objectives, saying We want to become one of the giants of the global gas industry. Obtaining liquefied natural gas is very expensive. The technique is dangerous and very sophisticated. The French Total, the American ExxonMobil as well as the Japanese Mitsui and Marubeni are stakeholders in the process. The main reason why Qatar decided for several years to place priority, but not exclusive, emphasis on the liquefied natural gas sector is that it wanted to be able to export in bulk, everywhere. Practically everywhere this means towards the three major world markets for natural gas, the Asian market, the North American market and the European market. When we are located in the Middle East, as is the case for Qatar, we cannot export gas to the United States through a pipe, through a gas pipeline. We absolutely need liquefied natural gas. And liquefied natural gas has therefore enabled Qatar to realize its ambition to become the world's leading exporter of liquefied natural gas and to serve the three major global gas markets. The construction of gas terminals will take years. Until then, Hamad needs to exist. Immediately after his putsch, he developed a formidable weapon. This is what will make Qatar known. Aljazeera is a name that sounds like a challenge, which actually sounds like that, because it means the Arabian Peninsula. So little Qatar, from nothing, from a territorial confetti, will completely transform the Arab landscape where the people could no longer tolerate official information which boiled down to the daily activity bulletin of the head of state and of his ministers. It was part of the emirate's strategy to give prominence to everything that was anti-Saudi and anti-Iranian. To promote everything that is part of the strategy that we saw earlier regarding the existence of Qatar in relation to two neighbors who are suffocating it. Aljazeera asserts itself through a freedom of tone, opens its antennas to Arab opponents, becomes the media arena where we discuss and criticize the Arab regimes in place, but without ever mentioning Qatar. Aljazeera will then prove to be a very valuable diplomatic tool. I know senior officers in Israel who told me quite directly that we are the Al Jazeera lobby in Israel. We consider Al Jazeera to be good. We consider that what Qatar is doing is interesting and it is useful for the Jewish State and for the IDF. For what ? Because it was the first Arab television channel to interview Israelis. This was also accompanied by very militant coverage of the Intifada and the various military operations against the Palestinians. But for the Israelis, it was essential to have, dare I say, this media entry point into tens of millions of Arab homes. We started to be interested in Al-Jazeera at the end of the 90s, the very end of the 90s, 97-98 yes, we were praised by Al-Jazeera as the perfectly independent Arab CNN, where we actually see women , communists, Israelis, a little bit of everything. But when we go there, we realize that this is not at all what the little father, Hamad bin Jassem, but finally the Qatari administration, essentially Hamad Bn Jassem, but even the emir from time to time is every quarter of an hour on the phone to tell Al-Jazeera you say that, you tap on so-and-so, you stop tapping on the other, etc. A channel which at that moment appears to us to be extremely well made in its aspect external, extremely respectful of the rules of ethics and the functioning of Western media. What we encounter nowhere else in the Arab world, but which in fact conceals well, but an orientation which is totally given by those in power. And then there was Bin Laden. At the beginning, Bin Laden worked, if I dare say so, with ABC and CNN. He has little interest in Arab media until he understands what Al-Jazeera is and what he can become through Al-Jazeera. Al Jazeera is going to do Bin Laden and Bin Laden is going to do Al-Jazeera. September 11, 2001 marked the end of a world. Terrorism is the new danger. Bin Laden the new enemy. Washington sends marines to Afghanistan. The war on terrorism is on. For American neoconservatives, this is an opportunity to reshape the region. Tension crystallizes in Iraq. In the summer of 2002, HBJ met Saddam Hussein and sought mediation. In Washington. The decision is made. While the White House prepares to bring down Saddam Hussein, the Americans organize the movement of their military base located in Saudi Arabia. After 2001. Indeed, it seemed a little difficult to make citizens, the average American taxpayer, swallow that we had an exclusive alliance with people who had nevertheless committed the attacks of 2001 because everything, everything converged towards Saudi Arabia, towards Saudi services like Qatar at that time, was beginning to stand out from the crowd and also need an American umbrella. Goodwill met. In December 2002. Donald Rumsfeld, US Secretary of Defense, visited HBJ. They inaugurate the American base at Al-Udeid. Until then, the central command of American forces in the Gulf was located in Saudi Arabia. It is now Qatar which hosts it and it is Qatar which finances it. Iraq declared 8500 liters of anthrax. The use of force is not justified. Today, there is an alternative to war, disarming Iraq through inspections. We had in common the idea that we absolutely had to avoid a confrontation between the West and the Arab world. And ultimately, that was the big risk. To see , and this was somewhat the case at one point , that the Arab world felt in some way the action that was going to be carried out in Iraq as an aggression on the part of the West, even if most of them did not I didn't like Saddam Hussein at all. On March 20, 2003, the American army launched the war in Iraq. Qatar has definitely changed dimension. He is the main military ally of the Americans in the war against Saddam. At the same time, Al-Jazeera broadcasts Bin Laden videos. The Americans are exasperated. Missiles destroy Al-Jazeera offices in Kabul and Baghdad. Bush will even want to bomb the channel's headquarters in Doha. Leading military ally and main media critic of the United States. Qatar is playing a double game and it is winning. The presence of the American base in Qatar secures the country. Hamad can now fully devote himself to building his financial empire. Indeed, the colossal investments he has made in gas are bearing their first fruits. Money is flowing freely. Overnight, an ultra-modern city rises from the ground. It therefore took Qatar years, at least ten years, for Qatar to achieve this impressive rise in power which led it to the first step on the world podium of producers and exporters of liquefied natural gas. With a current capacity of 77 million tonnes of liquefied natural gas per year. World number one. In 2005, Qatar established a sovereign investment fund, the Qatar Investment Authority. Leather on the controls. The future Emir Tamim chairs the fund and HBJ, the emirate's Minister of Foreign Affairs, manages the investments. Business and politics are one. So it's part of a general desire to secure and prepare for the future. Because even if we have three centuries of gas reserves, how will all this work out? And then it's not enough. And we cannot develop a country's economy on a single resource. So they thought that to once again reinforce this situation, they had to count. So count in the diplomatic game, therefore have a clear vision of how the world works. That means knowing the leaders, knowing how they work, knowing how we make decisions, whether in Riyadh or Paris, it's not the same thing, or in Washington or Cairo, it's not the same. So they're going to know all that. And so I discovered in my counterpart, the Qatari minister, someone who knew the mechanism of all this very well . This is not the case for all ministers. In September 2008, the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers plunged the world into total panic. Markets are collapsing. Unheard of since the financial crisis of 1929. Governments are recapitalizing banks to avoid blocking the system. For Qatar, this is an opportunity not to be missed. The world is on sale. Harrods. Part of the London business district of Canary Wharf, the London Stock Exchange, Barclays, Credit Suisse, the Luxembourg Bank KBL, Banco Santander Brasil, the oil company Shell, the Agricultural Bank of China, the Raffles group, etc. Etc. Thanks to QIA and its various subsidiaries, Qatar is making a sensational entry into the capital of the world's major industrial flagships and penetrating the heart of international finance, the banks. What we don't yet know is how, over time, Qatar will turn its investments and brand into influence. Influence is a process that takes time. So we will see in five years what the Qataris intend to do with their investments. Are they just doing it for the money? Will they sell at a profit and move elsewhere? Or will they use this situation to their advantage? We don't yet have the answers to all these questions. So far, so good. Thanks to its gas, Qatar has become rich among the rich. To conquer Arab hearts, he can count on Al-Jazeera. And to give yourself the image of a monarch modern and enlightened, Hamad has a key asset. His second wife, Sheikha Moza, glamorous and modern icon of the emirate. She is the only woman to appear in public. Moza is the only public woman in the Middle East, an exception for a Wahhabi country. Thank you. Only two countries in the world are Wahhabi: Qatar and Saudi Arabia. In Saudi Arabia, this translates into the ban on the public practice of another religion, the ban on mixing. Women are not allowed to have a bank account, they are not allowed to drive. They need a man's permission to travel, to have a paid job, to go to university, to get married. Adultery and homosexuality are punishable by death. Allegiance to Wahhabism as a vision of Islam and a rigorous and less widespread doctrine is less fundamental in Qatari society than in Saudi society. For sure. The Qataris practice a lighter form of Wahhabism, light Wahhabism. Can women drive? Absolutely ! Do women have the right to vote? Absolutely ! Can they run for office and win? Yes ! They can be completely veiled or on the contrary without veil. Yes ! What change ! But don't we all change? With Hamad and HBJ Sheikha Moza constitutes the third pillar of the Qatari Holy Trinity. Its mission is to establish Qatar as the new beacon of the Middle East by focusing on art, knowledge and charity. Ambitious and calculating, she places her children at the heart of power. His daughter Mayassa takes on art and museums. His other daughter, Hind, assists her father, Emir Hamad, at the Diwan Palace. His son Tamim was appointed crown prince of Qatar in 2003. Ten years later, he succeeded his father Hamad. In this country which has money but which does not create thought. Most advisors are foreigners. To prevent the country from slipping away from them. Moza wants to train minds and brings in very large schools like Georgetown and HEC. And in the administration, Qatarization and national preference are applied. Qatari society. Let's be clear, we are talking about nationals and on many levels more conservative than Sheikha Moza, Sheikh Hamad and his close family. Sheikha Moza's initiatives are undoubtedly seen by the Qataris as a positive development for the country, but also as a potential obstacle. Aren't we going a little too fast? Emir Hamad and his cousin HBJ want to make Qatar a power. A country will roll out the red carpet for them. Nuclear power. First army in Europe. Permanent member of the UN Security Council and co-founder of the European Union. France has a power that Qatar, despite all its billions, is not ready to acquire. With the election of Nicolas Sarkozy as President of the Republic, Emir Hamad has found his man. As soon as he was elected, Sarkozy set the tone. He reserves for Hamad the privilege of being the first Arab head of state he receives. A visit which ends with the sale of 80 Airbus A350s. A contract worth 16 billion dollars at list price. Of course, Qatar sees Europe and France in particular, not only as an important ally, but also as a great platform from which it can spread its influence across the world. On July 14, Emir Hamad is the guest of honor of the French president. He can thus admire his son, a graduate of Saint-Cyr, walking up the most beautiful avenue in the world with splendor. Ten days later, Hamad allowed Cecilia Sarkozy to return from Libya, accompanied by Bulgarian nurses and the Palestinian doctor held hostage for eight years by Gaddafi, who accused them of having inoculated several hundred children with the AIDS virus. A little reaction. It's difficult. Ms Sarkozy, What was decisive was a set of factors, of course. Hello, You were talking about Cecilia and Claude Gueant. Are we moving towards a new form of diplomacy? Mr. Kouchner himself said yesterday that he had not been involved in the negotiations at all. So it's a new style of diplomacy. So this ability to theorize is fantastic. Even though there was a problem to solve. What is extraordinary in this affair and which has ultimately never been completely clarified, is that to get these nurses out, Qatar still paid 452 million dollars, which is an enormous sum. Especially when we know that the European representative who was responsible for negotiating, told him and still says that everything was settled. So where did this 452 million go? For what ? How ? No one today is capable of saying it. Four months later, a parliamentary inquiry heard the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who was kept away from negotiations with Libya. I don't know what was promised. I don't know what was paid or not paid and whether it was money or not. You have a feeling, an impression. I have a feeling that I won't reveal to you, but I have no information. You have. I know I swore to reveal. My feeling is that we are not safe from certain financial transactions. But I don't know anything about it. So there is someone who. Who explains that part of this 300 million money which would have arrived around Nicolas Sarkozy, The one who says that is Ziad Takieddine. Should we believe it? Ziad Takieddine is a sulphurous character. We heard his name a lot. In fact, for several years it was the Sarkozists' intermediary in the heart of the gray zone. But Takieddine, in any case, was in a position to know things, to know the secrets. For what ? Quite simply that since 2005, he was in Claude Gueant's entourage to lead operations on one side towards Gaddafi, but also on the side of Bashar el-Assad. So there are enough exchanges of notes for us to say, We can say that. So, after... Claude Gueant formally contests Ziad Takieddine's accusations. Thank you. By offloading 452 million euros, as Le Canard Enchaine stated, Hamad won the favor of Paris and allowed Sarkozy to carry out his first diplomatic coup. In exchange, Sarkozy revises the tax convention linking the two countries. During the first five years, Qataris residing in France do not pay the wealth solidarity tax and their property capital gains are not taxable. While the Elysee is recapitalizing the banks and the Prime Minister declares that France is a bankrupt state, Qatar is increasing its investments in stone and in the strategic flagships of French industry. Total, France Telecom, Lagardere, Vinci, Suez Environnement. Vivendi. Veolia. By entering the capital of these companies. Qatar is not saving the French industrial fabric but is buying influence and political networks. You are an opportunity, you are an opportunity in relations between the West and the East. Everyone's interest, Your Highness, is that Qatar succeeds. You are an example. France is happy to be your friend, the friend of your people, the friend of your country and, if you allow it, the friend of your family. At the initiative of Qatar, France is upsetting the balance of its alliances. This is how in 2008, Sarkozy got closer to Bashar al-Assad. Since 2005, relations between France and Syria have been completely frozen. And when Nicolas Sarkozy was elected in May 2007, Chirac saw him to finally, almost, tell him not to change his diplomatic line and not to bring Bashar al-Assad back into the game. Because quite simply, Bashar El Assad, for Chirac it is clear, is the assassin of his best friend. Rafic Hariri, who was the Lebanese Prime Minister who was assassinated in 2005. In 2008, Sarkozy invited Bashar El Assad to attend the July 14 parade alongside Emir Hamad. Chirac is injured. But this affair will take him so much to the guts that he told me that he had agreed in August 2008 to go to Cap Negre to say certain things to Nicolas Sarkozy. And he clearly understood the origin of this change. It was Qatar. And to give more weight to his warnings to Nicolas Sarkozy, he was to say Be careful, they are corruptors. The Prime Minister of Qatar is already in shady dealings with Bashar El Assad and he is so corrupt that he is still the only person who came to the Elysee with a briefcase full of money to put it on my desk. And be careful Nicolas, because rumors are already circulating in Paris about Qatar's corruption towards you. Long live Qatar, long live France! Long live the friendship between France and Qatar. Between Sarkozy and the Al-Thanis, it's the honeymoon. Sheikha Moza becomes a foreign member of the Academy of Fine Arts and receives her academic sword with all honors. The Emirate buys PSG and launches Beinsport. Sarkozy makes France the little laboratory of Qatar. The emir and Sarkozy never stop courting each other. A French-Qatari high school is opened in Doha, the Lycee Voltaire. The School is managed by the French Secular Mission. At the beginning, everything is going well, but things will go wrong due to pressure and censorship on the programs, the French secular mission, which refuses to be a simple showcase, withdraws. At the same time and to everyone's surprise, Qatar was admitted, skipping all the steps. As a full member of the International Organization of La Francophonie. An aberration for a country that is not French-speaking. A major opportunity for this country hungry for influence. The French-speaking world is 220 million people around the world and the sweet assurance of a colossal network. But if there is one event that attracts attention in France, it is the Banlieues fund. The announcement was made in the middle of the 2012 presidential campaign. Is Qatar seeking to Islamize our suburbs? The controversy is immediate. The idea is then postponed until later. It was Francois Hollande, a few months after his election, who redefined the contours of the fund by expanding it to all small and medium-sized businesses. The fund will be financed equally by France and Qatar. Qatar's money magnetizes the world and bewilders Westerners who are blindly attracted by the fantastic salaries. Dozens of engineers, entrepreneurs and liberals of all kinds are moving to Doha. And he discovers the other Qatar. He discovers the dictatorship. On the spot. Whatever their position and whatever their salary, foreigners are subject to a system which responds to the sweet name of kafala. Widespread in all Gulf countries. It is in Saudi Arabia and Qatar that this system is the harshest, the most inhumane. We modestly call it sponsorship. Every worker becomes the commodity, the indestructible property of Qatari citizens. In France, a man, lawyer Franck Berton, is fighting against this system and trying to get French people stuck in Doha out of the country. French people who can be considered economic prisoners. To leave the country, they need an exit visa. An exit visa that only their employer can issue to them. The problem is that the sponsors are in this file. But as with many members of the royal family, these are just members of the royal family. We take the example, for example, of Stephane Morello, who is a football coach, who has been detained there for almost five years. His sponsor, in any case his employer, which is an employment contract, is the Qatari Olympic Committee, the Qatari Olympic Committee. It is chaired by the man who has been the current emir of Qatar for several months. So he is in conflict with the emir. So we tell him either you give up your salaries and in this case, I will give you the famous sesame or you do not give it up and you stay here and you do not move from here and you do not have the right to Get out of here. When Americans, because it doesn't just happen to the French or a Belgian or others, an Englishman experience this. What is the country in question doing? Hillary Clinton went to pick up her nationals by plane there, banging her fist on the table and saying enough is enough! So obviously my clients still want there to be the same dynamism with regard to our French governments, the same desire with regard to the Quai d'Orsay. So it's true that it's been denounced. It is true that many organizations are coming to say and present Qatar, which it cannot tolerate in view of its image as finally being today, in the 21st century, the first modern slave country. The winner to organize the Football World Cup in 2022 is Qatar! In 2022, the eyes of the whole world will be on Qatar. For Hamad, it's the pinnacle. But Rome was not built in a day. Thousands of workers must be imported. The Qataris have no need to work, they accumulate. After exploiting the pearl sellers, the Al-Thani and the victorious tribes of the Empire today exploit a workforce siphoned off in Nepal, Sri Lanka, India, Pakistan, and throughout South East Asia. In this country of 2 million inhabitants, 1,350,000 are foreign workers. They represent 94% of the country's workforce, as revealed by Amnesty International in a report published in November 2013, 90% of them have had their passports confiscated by their employer, and one in five workers does not receive their salary on the due date when it is paid. Forced labor, even human trafficking. The Amnesty report is damning. You are given a contract in your home country and upon arrival it is exchanged and sometimes even deleted. So you have no proof of the initial contract which mentioned a better salary. We are not far from human trafficking in the face of such deception. Especially when you put people into forced labor. All you have to do is sneak into the suburbs of Doha to discover the other side of Qatar. A dilapidated landscape, men forgotten among machines, endless constructions. These are the sacrifices of economic triumph. Their lives are worthless. Every month, dozens of them die on construction sites and international unions fear that by 2022, 4,000 workers will lose their lives so that Qatar can have its World Cup. This became clear to me during a meeting at a company. The manager called one of his colleagues and during the conversation he used animal terms to talk about the workers. He spoke in Arabic. He didn't realize that some of us could understand him. It's very revealing. It gives a good idea of how you treat and view people. We had already heard from many workers that they were treated like animals or even worse than animals. He was referring to the ruling class in general, but not of any nationality. This is the system that needs to be changed and it requires a real culture change in the business world. Qatar says it takes these allegations seriously and affirms that it wants to improve the deplorable conditions on the construction sites for the workers. Every year, in May, the great people of this world are invited to the Grand Forum in Doha. They flock there to discuss democracy in a segregationist monarchy. Qatar is not a contradiction in terms. In 2012, the UN organized its 18th climate conference in Doha in this country which holds the record for greenhouse gas emissions per capita, three times more than in the United States. This summit is a nice touch. Qatar, a new Athens. The Emir, A modern-day pharaoh. How far will Qatar go? In just a few years, this piece of desert land has accomplished what no other country before it had done. But Qatar wants more and its next step is clear. Of influence. Qatar will go to power. For centuries, Qatar was called by the Arabs the forgotten land of God. Today, the whole world's eyes are on Qatar. In recent years, the country has invested tens of billions of euros in France. A week or so away, without the name of Qatar... Qatar. Qatar. Qatar. Should we be afraid of Qatar? Welcome to an oasis of freshness. Qatar opens its doors to you in the heart of the global village. No financial crisis here. Barely 20 years ago, no one knew about Qatar. Today, no one is unaware of its existence. In just a few years, Emir Ahmed bin Khalifa Al-Thani has transformed this land forgotten by the gods into a powerful multinational where money flows freely. And it doesn't matter that Qatar is a dictatorship in which immigrant workers die every day on construction sites. As long as business is good, everything is good. Qatar exists because our world exists. It is the distorting mirror of the West, of its greed and gluttony. Today, Qatar has equipped itself with all the levers of influence. Diplomacy, the world of sport, the world of arts and culture have opened their arms to him. Nobody refuses anything in Qatar. But in its delirium of power, Qatar will play the sorcerer's apprentice and risk upsetting the fragile balance on which the world has rested since the attacks of September 11, 2001. At the head of this multinational, two men, Emir Hamad and his cousin HBJ, who hold the positions of Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs and key man in the sovereign investment fund QIA, the Qatar Investment Authority. Politics in Qatar is a successful family affair. This central power gathered around two men gives Qatar a vitality that no other country can offer. But Qatar alone could not have done anything. A country, but above all a man left in the rank of power. Nicolas Sarkozy's France. From the start of his five-year term, he made Qatar the diplomatic pivot of France's Arab policy, to the detriment of its traditional allies. We find ourselves here with the Emir of Qatar. I recall the role that Qatar played in the order agreements. For more than a year, investigator Pierre Pehan and journalist Vanessa Ratini have been working on the relations that France maintains with the emirate. Qatar is a country that works for peace, that acts for peace. France is a friend of Qatar and works with Qatar. As soon as he was elected, Nicolas Sarkozy gave Qatar a completely new place in French diplomacy, since the Emir Ahmed Al-Thani was the first leader of Arab State who is received by Nicolas Sarkozy at the Elysee. Then, Ahmed was invited to the July 14 parade and ten days later, he participated in the liberation of the vulgar nurses. We finally find ourselves with Qatar which becomes the diplomatic pivot of France's Arab policy. That is to say, taking advantage of the Saudi gerontocracy, the absence of Egypt, the absence of Arab power, Qatar which is nothing, which is a confetti in the Persian Gulf, becomes a country which has more influence than Saudi Arabia or Egypt. But here, we can rightly wonder if France is not playing the shortcut. Since, until now, Qatar has influence, but France will propel it to the rank of power. Yes, it's a total shift. Let's say that France creates: Qatar great power. Everyone needs Qatar at one time or another, everyone. The Russians, the Israelis, the Chinese, the Iranians, the Syrians, the Turks. Because Qatar is not perceived as having a capacity for nuisance that would accompany the relations that we can have with it. Qatar has become known as a mediator in the region. He resolved the conflict in Lebanon. He has been and continues to be very active in resolving the Darfur conflict in Sudan. He resolved the conflict between Djiboutis and Leritres and is trying to mediate in Yemen. It is in this spirit that he continued to only offer to the Iranians and the Americans to act as intermediaries. Because we saw how the Qataris operated between 2000 and 2010, basically. It was every time there was a dispute in the Arab world to say "I have the keys." To come and see Westerners saying "I have the keys to your problem. I can solve your problem." The obligatory intermediary, the good faith courier, was the Qataris. You had to go see them because they had managed to create networks of friends and friends all over the Arab and Muslim world and especially in the world of Muslim extremists. This is how Qatar has made itself indispensable to the world by speaking to those no one else wants to talk to and by putting its money at the service of the great causes of this world. Qatar is the land of asylum for extremists in exile. Mohamad is Islambouli, from the violent branch of the Muslim Brotherhood and brother of the person responsible for Sadat's assassination. Zeydekhan Yemdiyev, former Chechen president assassinated in 2004 by Russian agents in Doha. Abbas Simadani, former president of the Algerian FIS. All found refuge in Doha, as did the jihadist Khalid Sharmohamed, protected by the Qatari Minister of Islamic Affairs. He settled in Doha in 1993. In 1996, the Americans tried to arrest him. When they arrived, Khalid Sharmouh Ahmed disappeared. He would have been alerted by someone close to the Emir. A few years later, he would engineer the attacks of September 11, 2001. He was on the ten most wanted list of all Western countries after September 11 and he was already considered extremely dangerous in the 90s. He had a job fictitious. He had a salary in a ministry in Qatar with an office and a telephone. The United States wrote this in its September 11 report. You know that the Qatari authorities tolerated people from Al-Qaeda in their ministry, which was really Al-Qaeda. There is no ambiguity, they were from Al-Qaeda and they had fake jobs. There is a double game which is completely assumed. Why do they assume it? Because we can't tell them anything. And why can't we tell them anything? Because we don't dare tell them. We fall into the multiplicity of irons in the fire. A wise ruler and a wise diplomat always have several irons in the fire. Qatar has made a habit of having as many irons in the fire as it can get and exploiting them when it can. There are all its little people on shelves, everything is its opposite, and we take out the stuff when we need it. This could, for the Qataris, constitute leverage either to sell it to the Americans or to use it for something else. I tell you, it's part of the utensils. Since the Qataris have no tools other than their money, they need tools on their workbench, whatever they may be. It could just as well be a President of the French Republic as a Pakistani jihadist. At least it can be useful one day, let's take it, since we have the means to pay for it. Qatar only runs for itself, but the problem is that the West is convinced that they are writing history. It's finish. It's over, especially in the Middle East. So, we must accept that there is a specific autonomy of societies, that there are peoples who define their destiny, but that Qatar sells its intermediation, sells its intercession to Westerners, of Antaux by claiming that it takes over, that's obvious. This is obviously the argument that holds. We can still hope that Westerners do not believe everything we tell them. No, we sometimes wanted to follow in some way what happened to someone who had, for example, left our borders. At that time, we asked. To my knowledge, we have always had the information that was requested. In any case, it was considered when I was there that in terms of intelligence, the collaboration with Qatar was completely satisfactory. This is part of their foreign policy model. This is not opportunism. We would be tempted to call it opportunism, but it is the concern to keep a channel of communication open with everyone. In diplomatic jargon, we call this covering your risks. It's completely used to it. But what is surprising is not that Qatar speaks to everyone , it is that so many people refuse to speak to so many people and therefore have to go through Qatar to speak to them. So far, everything was going well. Mediation gave Qatar a central place in the Middle East and Qatar could have continued like that. Peacefully. But for the two Althani cousins, Hamad and HBJ, mediation had reached its limits. Passing dishes between powerful people was no longer enough for them. Their new will? Settle down at the table of the greats of this world, write history. A tragic event will serve as a trigger and influence, they will move to power. On December 17, 2010, in a small Tunisian village, a young man set himself on fire. He unknowingly marked the start of the Arab Spring. There, Al Jazeera cameras were the first on site to mediate the events. After Tunisia, this breath of revolts crosses Egypt, Libya, Yemen, Jordan, Sudan, Sultan Andoman, Mauritania, Morocco, Syria, Bahrain, to the gates of Qatar. From the moment the Arab world as a whole is destabilized, Qatar has a positioning problem. Because what will become of these countries from the moment the locks that held them, be it the Benalli, the Mubarak, the Qatafis and others, what will become of these countries afterwards? The Qataris are not imbeciles, they are planning the next move. What will the next move be? Either it will be Islamic control by Saudi Arabia, if we do nothing, or it will shift to democracy. Both are absolutely intolerable for Qatar. When they realized that they could not stop the Arab Spring, they decided to position themselves at the head of the new one to lead it, even if it meant parting with long-time friends. So he has to intervene. He has to intervene and he intervenes with the two means at his disposal, his money, he had a lot of it at the time, and Al Jazeera. Al Jazeera played a key role in several countries, starting with Tunisia, where it was thanks to Al Jazeera that people began to see the popular movement against Ben Ali grow. Al Jazeera is continuously monitoring events. His reports are everywhere. Rare images, ongoing interviews. At the White House, it is no longer on CNN that we find out about the Arab Spring, it is on Al Jazeera. The Katari channel is the sounding board of popular uprisings, the path of revolutions. It was immediately banned by the governments in place in Tunisia, Egypt, Algeria, Morocco, Bahrain and Iraq. The idea of maneuver being, we leave the revolutions neither in the hands of the Islamists led by the Syrians, nor in the hands of the democrats. We leave it to the only Islamic organization , transnational, well organized and which is fundamentally hostile to Saud because it wants to steal their power, the Muslim Brotherhood. So, we support the Muslim brothers. We support the Muslim brothers all the more easily because for 10, 15, 20 years, we have taken on the principal, the most Salafist of the preachers and Muslim brothers, Yousef Al-Qardawi. He was welcomed as an Egyptian refugee in Qatar and made one of the leading preachers on Al-Jazeera. Throughout history, God has imposed on the Jews men capable of punishing them for their corruption. The last of these punishments was carried out by Hitler. The methods he used against the Jews were perhaps exaggerated, but he was managed to put them back in their place And it was a divine punishment that fell on them. Youssef al-Qaradawi is one of the main leaders of the Muslim Brotherhood. President of the Ulema Conference and star of Al-Jazeera, his words have gospel value for the faithful. A specialist in doublespeak, his anti-Republican speech resulted in him being banned from entering French territory. From the first day of my arrival in Qatar, my relationship with Al-Thani's family has been very good. A relationship based on affection, understanding and tolerance. In Qatar, Karadawi is not just anyone. Close to the former Emir Ahmed, Qaradawi is considered his spiritual guide. And then, for four decades now, there has been a privileged relationship with dear Kardaoui, who, despite saying in every tone that he is not a member of the Muslim Brotherhood, but who, I can affirm, is one of the eminent leaders of the brotherhood in what is called tanzim edwali, that is to say the international organization. Born from the ashes of the Ottoman Empire which united all Muslims within the Islamic Caliphate, a land without borders, the Muslim Brothers were founded in Egypt in 1928 on the initiative of a teacher, Hassan al-Banna. The brotherhood's primary vocation was to liberate Egypt from British colonial rule. Originally, it was therefore a nationalist movement which was not based on Egyptian values, but on Islam. Hassan al-Banna called on the faithful to follow him, to follow the message of true Islam, this message which will unify them, this message which will unite them and not divide them. When Hassan al-Banna encourages Bosnian Muslims , North Africans and Kosovois to join the SS, Kama, Skanderberg and Ansar divisions, created by the Muslim brothers with the blessing of Hajj Amina al-Husseini, the grand mufti of Jerusalem, we are far from a harmonious movement of national emancipation. In 1948, Egyptian Prime Minister Alnouk Rashi, who had decreed the outlawing of the brotherhood, was assassinated by a member of the Muslim brothers. Al-banna, accused of having participated in the plot, is assassinated during his arrest and exhibited in a public square hanging on the end of a rope. The founder becomes the martyr of the brotherhood. In 1952, Nasser took power during the Free Officers' Putsch, supported by the Muslim Brothers. Once in place, Nasser refused to associate them with power. The brothers then try to assassinate him. Nasser launches a vast movement of repression against the brotherhood. An ideologue takes over from Albana, Saeed Khutob. It was at this time that Saeed Khutob, who had become the ideologue of the most active faction of the brothers in Egypt, came to the conclusion that the Muslim brothers would not escape through war through legal means. . The essence of his message is that we will only get there through political violence , through exclusion, through an absolute break between us and the West. We must build a wall of hatred and incomprehension between the West and the Muslim world, so that we can take power there without them wanting to intervene. That is to say, we must hate the West and we must make ourselves hateful to it so that it does not want to come and interfere in our stories. Said Qutub is in turn tried, imprisoned and hanged. The Muslim Brotherhood movement is decapitated. The brothers did not give in. The brothers held on, the brothers waited for more than 60 years, until the revolution arrived on January 25, 2011. This revolution calls for people to become masters of themselves. What do the people want? The people want Islam. The Muslim brothers are the bearers of this message. They are the leaders of this revolution. They are at the origin of this call. They have this strength of conviction among the people. Karadawi rewrites history. If the Muslim Brothers rush into the breach of the Arab Spring, they are not the initiators. Karadawi played a lot in the sense of indirectly supporting through Al Jazeera, through his show, the Arab policy, of course, and the Muslim policy of Qatar. It was he who sent messages to , for example, leaders with whom Qatar was not in agreement, if you like, or on good terms. Unlike the Emir, Karadawi can afford to adopt positions that are untenable by Qatari diplomacy given its alliances with the West. Beyond religion, Karadaoui is the emirate's sniper. We are going to favor the Muslim brothers that the Saudis have favored for years and of whom they are beginning to distrust, because the Saudis have understood that the ultimate goal of the Muslim brothers was to take power in Saudi Arabia because they is a rich country. So the Qataris are buying from the Muslim brother of whom the Saudis are beginning to distrust. To take the lead in the Arab revolutions, Emir Hamad reactivates wherever he can the numerous networks of Muslim brothers that he has financed for years. The strategy is to take leadership in the Arab world. Qatar must overtake Saudi Arabia, place its men, bring them to power, win the markets to further extend its influence. The Muslim Brothers will fulfill this function of political and commercial relay. We are far from religion. It is a regional power strategy. Indeed, we have considerable resources which are mobilized by Qatar. Considerable, everything is relative. For Qatar, this is very little. On the other hand, for a Tunisia which is emerging from a revolution which, certainly, was peaceful, but still with a few, three hundred deaths and a political landscape devastated by decades of dictatorship, the parties have very few resources to mobilize. Above all, they have the goodwill and donations of their activists. And suddenly, by banking on Ennardat, therefore on the Muslim brothers, Qatar will introduce almost mechanically a difference which becomes a difference in nature between this formation and the others. During the elections organized in Tunisia in October 2011, around a hundred political parties presented themselves. With his significant funding and the very vast network woven by the brotherhood in areas neglected by the State, Ennardat is leading an American-style campaign. Above all, the party reacts to its strong network in the country, while its elites return from exile. The most organized political force, Ennardat emerged victorious in the legislative elections of October 2011 and won almost half of the seats in the Constituent Assembly. In Egypt, same scenario, the Freedom and Justice Party, also from the brotherhood, obtained 47% of the seats in the Assembly following the elections in January 2012. Emir Ahmed and his cousin HBJ can be proud of these two victories. The people elected their leaders democratically. The Muslim Brothers are in place. Ben Ali's flight to Tunisia and the fall of Mubarak in Egypt took only a few weeks. In both countries, the West has been overtaken. The movement continues. Al-jazeera always advocates revolution. Democracy, yes, but among others. The Qatari poet Al-Hajami wrote an ode to the Arab Spring. Tunisia has launched a mass revolution against its repressive authoritarian and dictatorial regime. We pray that what happened in Tunisia happens here, where people are starving, where the government boasts of the financial boom. We pray that what happened in Tunisia happens to the repressive regime in some other countries. Oh you people, how much longer will you remain slaves? We must cry out loud and call with one voice for another destiny. Today, we are all Tunisians facing the repressive elites. Our governments are all about the West. Why then not also bring law and freedom? For this poem, he has a few friends one evening of euphoria. Mohamed Al-Hajami was sentenced to life imprisonment. Since November 2011, the Qatari has been languishing in its cheeks. His sentence was reduced to 15 years in prison, confirmed by the Supreme Court of Doha, 15 years of rigorous imprisonment for attacking the symbol of the State and inciting the overthrow of power. In Libya, for several months, Qatar has been trying to assert itself in negotiations with the company Total, in a contract relating to the exploitation of a huge gas deposit. But Gaddafi refuses to allow Qatar to exploit its subsoil. It blocks everything. In February 2011, in the wake of the Tunisian and Egyptian revolutions, insurgents rose up against Gaddafi, who bloodily repressed the movement. Sarkozy mobilizes the international community to act in Libya. Qatar will become a master in the art of double-dealing. The Emir of Qatar was until now his friends with Saif al-Islam, with Gaddafi's sons, with the regime. There too, because Gaddafi was a horror for the Saudis. Gaddafi, with his extremely personal reading of the Koran which is embodied in the little green book, was a nightmare for the Saudis. A nightmare for the Saudis and welcome was always welcome for the Qataris. Al-jazeera will go even further than in Tunisia and Egypt. By broadcasting images of abuses by pro-Gaddafi forces against civilians. These unbearable images loop. Qardawi goes on the offensive. I am issuing a fatwa! To the officers and soldiers who can kill Muammar Gaddafi , whoever among them can shoot him and thus relieve the country and its inhabitants will have to do. This man wants to destroy his people. So I protect these people. I decide that whoever draws the bullet to relieve us, like Libya and its great people, of this evil and dangerous man, this man must do it! Brothers of Qatar, is this the end? Is this our friendship? We shared water and salt! And you are totally against us! Whose interests are you serving? When you regret it, it will be too late! Those who live in glass houses should not throw stones. Who are you ? The time has come! The hour of victory... It's the point of no return! Ahead ! Ahead ! Revolution ! Revolution ! That's what we call betrayal. In 2007, remember, the Emir of Qatar allowed the rapprochement between Gaddafi and Sarkozy, by paying, according to the assertions of the Canard Enchaine, 452 million euros alongside the release of the Bulgarian nurses and the Palestinian doctor . Four years later, yesterday's friends went to war against Gaddafi. Today, we are intervening in Libya on the mandate of the UN Security Council with our partners, particularly our Arab partners. Qatar and the Emirates are committed to the side of the West, giving this war Arab support. The West thus protects itself from being accused of imperialism. Hbj confirms to France that Qatar is making six of its 12 Mirages available. Qatar also participates in the staffs. The country is totally involved alongside the West against Gaddafi. It is at the heart of power. The military actions undertaken on the basis of these negotiations in recent days have greatly reduced the capabilities of the Gaddafi regime. The people will thus be able to realize their aspirations by establishing a system that guarantees them freedom and good governance with the help of civil society. Qatar is always on the right side of history. When it became clear that Gaddafi was going to fall, Qatar, which wanted to renew its stock of influence, then made friends with the new leaders who were fighting for power. Qatar may also have another objective, to protect itself against a possible annexation of Cyrenaica by Egypt. Egypt has never been consoled by the creation of Libya in 1912 and its independence in 1951. Cyrenaica, in the northeast, is very rich in hydrocarbons. When the rebels seized Benghazi, Qatar feared that the region would fall into the hands of the Egyptians, that Egypt, the most powerful country in the region, would find itself with a certain financial and energy independence. On the ground, the West wants to arm the rebels to help them fight Gaddafi's troops. But doing it themselves is too risky. No problem, Qatar agrees to take care of it. In fact, the Qataris delivered their weapons in May, at the end of May, at the beginning of June. And for the general staff of the rebels who had formed there, very, very quickly, a rather harsh observation was made, which was that the Qataris were deliberately circumventing their own hierarchy to deliver weapons to the Katibas, made up essentially of Islamists. The rebel leaders tried to recover these materials, but did not succeed. The Katibas, which were equipped and financed directly by the Qataris, completely escaped their control. So, a problem of discipline which was crucial and which could have carried over authority into victory. And then, a medium-long term strategic problem which was quickly identified by the rebels and which was that after the fall of Gaddafi, these Islamists risked taking over. I think it must be said that an Islamist cannot be recognized with the naked eye and we cannot essentialize the fighters. You don't have on one side people who are purely secular and who fight for purely political reasons and people who are Islamists and who only think about jihad. You have nuances. You have lay people who will be very pious. You have Islamists who are essentially motivated by jihad. You have Islamists who are also revolutionaries. You have Islamists who want freedom. You have Islamists who want to deprive everyone of freedom. So this situation is quite complicated. The only thing that seemed clear to me was that the Qataris did not really make the distinction. There were their friends and those who didn't know him. They didn't try to make new friends. They worked with those they knew and the people they knew, that's what the Islamists were. Yes, well, there are weapons, but above all money. In Libya, but it was true in Afghanistan too, warlords are not for sale, they are for rent. So, from time to time, every month, you have to renew the lease. Qatar effectively began to make itself look good by distributing pre-bands, facilities and weapons. It's not just about weapons. The problem was building customer loyalty. In general, it is done more with money than with weapons. While Opinion discovered that Qatar was arming and financing the Islamists, the Emirate took a stake in Total in the summer of 2011. It now holds 5%. First of all, it's no secret that Mr. Cameron and I were invited by our friends at the CNT. If His Highness, the universe of Qatar, would like to be there too, to meet the Libyan people, it would be an honor and a joy for us. And basically, what have we done? We tried to stand alongside the Arab street. I thank Mr President and Mr Cameron for their invitation to Libya. I am at home in Libya. The president is part of the family so I welcome you to Libya. Because I still have not understood today what the war aims were or the final aims of the Franco-British intervention in this affair. What I saw and which, for me, who has spent almost 40 years in the Arab world, is that Qazafi's body was barely cold, that a plane was already being sent to us with a minister and 40 businessmen on board to sign contracts, which, in the Arab world, does not happen. While waiting for the guy to be buried, even if he is the enemy, it was very badly received, including from those we had helped, that we found a few people who signed us contracts, but when we came back with them, they had disappeared. We don't even know who it was and we don't get anything out of this affair. I still don't understand. During their first trip to Libya, Nicolas Sarkozy and David Cameron did not invite the Emir to their side to triumphantly celebrate the fall of the regime in Benghazi. In fact, it was agreed in the context of the war in Libya that the weapons should be delivered to the National Transitional Council, which was ultimately the representative body of the rebels. But Qatar decided to deliver weapons to the Islamists, which was completely contrary to the decisions that had been taken. And at the same time, the West completely disengaged following Gaddafi's death. They have completely left Libya and today we are in a catastrophic situation in Libya. Catastrophic, chaotic. Today, there is no more power. There is a whole, there are powers, but the Libya of before no longer exists as a unified country. Qatar clearly did not have the same objective as France, in any case, and as the other Westerners. In other words, there are hidden interests on both sides which mean that what we had to commit did not work. From what I hear, the Qataris no longer deliver weapons, but finance the parties that are the most Islamist. It is quite common when coalitions are complex, that each camp, each stakeholder seeks to choose its interlocutors in the hope that tomorrow they will be its friends. Tactically, it makes sense. On the other hand, the Qataris give the impression of playing a bit of a sorcerer's apprentice. I don't believe in the more sinister thesis that they are seeking to Islamize Libya and the rest of the Middle East. On the other hand, I think that the Qataris do not necessarily measure the consequences of what they do and that they are playing with fire. To win markets, Qatar has financed extremist groups. And the most extremist among them can be found today in lawless territories, gray zones where there is no longer any state authority. Particularly in the south of Libya, in the province of Fezzane, from where they can reach neighboring countries, Niger, Mali. Controlled until now by a certain number of criminal gangs, mainly Algerian, known generally under the name of Achmi, of whom we said &quot;Djadis by day and Marlboro by night&quot; because they live much more from trafficking than from political activity. And hey, there is money to be made there and not only from Marlboro, but especially from cocaine, since the cocaine routes, following the success of the American anti-drug services, no longer pass directly through the Caribbean, but often go around West Africa. And Mali was an excellent hub for all traffic. In Mali, the state is disintegrating and the north of the country is falling into the hands of armed gangs and jihadists. The journalist, Lemin Oultsalem, has covered the region for several years. The links he established allowed him to film the leaders of his armed gangs up close , including the Mujaho, close to Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb. In the shadows, the journalist describes his own images to us. This scene takes place in Timbuktu, behind the famous Gaddafi hotel, and where the armed Islamists who occupied the city applied Sharia law. These are jihadists from Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, AKMI, who were allied with the Malian Islamist group Ansar Din, and therefore these two groups occupied the town and region of Timbuktu. There, it was a scene where a young housekeeper was accused of theft. He was tried by an Islamic court. He was sentenced to amputation of his right hand. On this recording, Omar Oulhama, the Mujahid's chief of staff, confirms the arrival of Qataris in the north of northern Mali during the occupation of this region by jihadist groups. The Qatari Red Crescent organized food distributions to the population with the Mujahid. That is to say that basically, it was Qatar which distributed food and the inhabitants received food, but they had the impression that it was the Mujdaho who gave it to them. These are trucks distributing humanitarian aid. I do not see Qataris coming to settle or enter Gao without not only the authorization of the jihadist groups who occupy the city, but also without having physical contact with them. Those who control the weapons, those who control the area or the region, you have to talk to them. Do you judge them? Inside, yes. This is where neutrality comes in. It is a practical necessity. There is no moral judgment. You're churning inside because you see the injustice, but in the end you say to yourself, &quot;We have to alleviate the suffering of the people in this area.&quot; >>As a result, it created a stir within the organization based in Geneva, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the ICRC, which is very careful not to interfere in conflicts for one side rather than another. And so, they asked them to leave The Qatari Red Crescent, which did not respect ICRC procedures, is asked to leave Mali. The situation in the country continues to worsen. Ladies and gentlemen, France, at the request of the President of Mali and in compliance with the Charter of the United Nations, committed yesterday to supporting the Malian army in the face of the terrorist aggression which threatens all of Africa. 'West. For France, Mali is not just any country. It is one of its former colonies. Mali is the French backyard. Four days after the start of the military intervention, HBJ advocated dialogue, condemning the French initiative to be suppressed. Karadawi, the preacher from Algezira, warns Paris. The hasty French intervention exposes it to dangerous consequences. Coming from Qatar, one of France's main partners in golf, this amounts to a betrayal. Qatar condemned the French intervention in Mali and a few days later, German services and a number of other observers noted that Qatari Red Crescent planes had come to try to pick up a number of jihadist leaders in the north of Mali, at a time when the jihadists were pressed a little too closely by the French army. We can clearly see that there, we no longer give much credit to the old people. For months, the Canard Enchaine, citing reports from the DGSE, citing reports from the military intelligence directorate, has affirmed that Qatar financially supports the terrorists who are taking over more and more land in the north of Mali. There has been a change of president, it is Francois Hollande who is the warlord and who finds himself confronted with an incredible paradox of French diplomacy, basically, our main ally with whom we have completely committed, in relation to which we have carried out actions, I am thinking in particular of the war in Libya. Incredible paradox is that the French army finds itself with its best friend who is in the enemy camp. And so, I believe that we have reached the absolute limits of French policy towards Qatar. Qatar is positioning itself in all countries where a new political space is emerging. In the countries swept by the breath of the Arab Spring, in Tunisia, in Egypt, in Libya, Qatar supports those who, tomorrow, will be able to help it expand its influence. Qatar is now playing in the big leagues. His arrogant and uncontrollable diplomacy raises questions. And all the fears it inspires are crystallized in a country that is faltering, Syria. Faced with the popular uprising, Bashar al-Assad does not give up power. To hold on, he chooses the craziest option , pushing his country into civil war. Qatar is the first country to call for military intervention in Syria. However, the Madh Emirate and Bashar al-Assad were still very close a few months earlier. If Qatar had excellent relations with the Syrian regime before 2011, it is because the Syrian regime had terrible relations with Saudi Arabia. We always come back to the basics every day. Bashar al-Assad spent a lot of time here in Doha. But at some point, Qatar decided that it was to be put in the dustbin of history, that too much energy had been spent on it. Since he was going to be overthrown, it would serve their interest to put themselves forward to get rid of them. In addition, we are still getting closer to the borders of Qatar. The situation is not at all the same as in Libya or Mali or elsewhere. In Syria, the two enemies of Qatar, the two dangers of Qatar, confront each other. Saudi Arabia and Iran face each other. We are only at the beginning of a long-term historic wave. Today, the main venue for this competition is Syria. And everything that we call jihadism, because we do not know how to speak otherwise, is quite simply the result of the fact that we have abandoned the unarmed Syrian people in the face of the war machine and the barbarity of the Assad regime and that as a result, the only concrete assistants who return are either those from Arabia or those from Qatar, who moreover, generally, go to the group that the other does not want to take and which favors a rise to extremes and a Salafist, jihadist overbidding, let's call it what we want. Here again, we are in the logic of Qatar's survival between these two powers that it fears, it is that it must be present on the ground to guarantee its own interests and that Syria does not tip over or completely on a Salafo-jihadist side controlled by Arabia, nor on the Iranian Shiite side through the Alawites and a rediscovered power of the Alawites. However, they do not have the capacity to distinguish between different groups of opponents. This requires resources on the ground, a deep knowledge of the different groups, an acute knowledge of the country, which Qatar does not possess. The idea that under the pretext that we gave briefcases full of dollars to such a Syrian Katiba would mean that tomorrow we bought friends in the future revolutionary Syrian government, is, I believe, an illusion that many will pay very dearly for. . So today, if we compare the assets, Qatar is lucky not to have a political system worthy of this gift, but to have no political system, therefore to be able to do what it wants at contempt for politics. Qatar continues its pharaonic expansion. From Doha, the war in Syria is very distant. Qatar is spearheading support for the insurgents. And today in Syria, as yesterday in Libya, the money and weapons delivered by Qatar to the most extremists have only one goal, to extend its influence and its power. More than two years after the start of the revolution and after the use of chemical weapons by Bashar al-Assad, the West is threatening to intervene. The Russians are opposed to it. Nobody moves. The Syrian people are left to their own devices. Iran's support for the Syrian regime adds a religious dimension to the tragedy. The opposition between Sunnis and Shiites, an ancient opposition which has always given rise to violent clashes for power. A confrontation which today obscures the primary objective of this war against Bashar El-Assad. We are analyzing that now, the affairs of Syria, between a clash between Shiites and Sunnis. Yes, there is a problem, but it is a problem for Saudi Arabia to know whether it can establish a Sunni axis between itself and Turkey and to oppose the creation of an axis which would unite across Iraq and Syria, Hezbollah and Iran. That is to say a Sunni axis crossing a Shiite axis. And this is also Qatar's intelligence. This is because Qatar, unlike Arabia, does not believe in this Sunni-shiite confrontation. In my opinion, in this sense, he is right. He thinks that Arabia is going astray. By staging, dramatizing, even fueling a Sunnishiite antagonism which is ultimately largely artificial. For months, Qatar's foreign policy has raised questions, annoyances and concerns. Is Qatar playing sorcerer's apprentice? The chancelleries are speculating on the change of power in Doha. Tamim, the crown prince, is ready. Son of Ahmad and Sheikha Mosa, Tamim continues to expand his scope of action to defense and armaments. His main rival, HBJ. On June 25, 2013, Ahmed abdicated and transferred the country to his son. What is very striking about the transfer of power between Emir Ahmed and Tamim is that we have been announcing it for some time, we are putting forward the wildest , most outlandish hypotheses about all the crises they risk. to arouse. We set up forms of role play where the uncle, a supposed strong man from Qatar HBJ, will be able to put all the spokes in the wheels of the young emir who is described as tibore, weak-willed. And in fact, everything is happening very quickly and very well. In the space of 48 hours, the emir, who is not that old, was asked to go elsewhere and especially his prime minister, minister of foreign affairs, who was minister of foreign affairs before that the emir had been emir since 92, had 48 hours to pack his bags and leave for London. In 18 years of reign, Ahmed has established his country as a player to be reckoned with. He has acquired stakes throughout the industrial and financial sector. He created a network of bondsmen. This is what Tamim inherits. The New Emirates consider that Qatar has played too much and too far on literally explosive issues, that is to say above all Syria and to a lesser extent Egypt. The wise posture that was adopted was a retreat behind Saudi Arabia, which became the leading state on these two issues. Since June, Qatar has been much less present on all issues. We hear it less loudly and I think that the family now wants, while certainly keeping a certain number of outside activities, but prefers to favor its investments in productive things in the West, where we are pretty sure that it will last a while, rather than spending it wastefully on jihadists around the world. Ahmed withdraws. Hbj is immediately removed from power and the QIya sovereign front. He leaves Qatar and goes to London. For his first official trip, Tamim is traveling to Saudi Arabia, setting the tone for new relations between the two countries. Between Qatar and its former allies, the hour of disenchantment has come. In the Arab streets, Al-Jazeera, emblematic of Qatari power , is now viewed with suspicion. Where the Muslim Brotherhood, supported by Qatar, took power during the Arab Spring, the people are demanding democracy. On July 3, 2013, the Egyptian army overthrew Mohamed Morsi and marked the end of the Muslim Brotherhood government. Qatar is much less talked about. The birth of a power in such a short time is an unprecedented phenomenon on a historical scale. This feat was made possible by the world in which we live. Hyper market power, unfettered capitalism, infinite human preservation. A question then. What does Qatar tell us about our society?