AMY GALLO: At some you're probably going to be like to be paid. You know the question. &quot;So, what are your This is a tough one. It's hard to know the But your starting the basis for all decisions at that company, So you want to get it Though, aim too high and you of a job. So what do you do? Luckily, there are smart this question. I'm going to show you how in the interview your pay without minimizing [MUSIC PLAYING] Why do they even Let's start here, because and recruiters ask this question you want to say in response. In spite of how it isn't designed to trick you if you come in low. As author and career development every position is budgeted. And typically hiring want to be sure It's in their best interest not going through multiple and putting together an meet your salary expectations. And from the answering the question can help a good fit for you. You want to know that about the salary and It can also help establish a later on in the hiring process. With that in mind, here are some Strategy number one, The first strategy is to directly. There are lots of reasons why Maybe, for example, been underpaid in the past and or current salary Here's a useful tip. There's no law that says On the contrary, there are that make it illegal to ask for a it comes to your pay history. In many places, what was your previous salary. Make sure to research what the It can be smart to by not giving a specific have a job offer in hand. As career strategist the time to discuss fallen in love with you. Here are two ways to without making it too awkward. First, turn the question around Finance expert Tori is to respond with something &quot;I actually don't understand at this point to but I would love to know If the interviewer is they'll likely want meets your expectations. It's OK to be and say, &quot;That's If you were to offer me the job, There's a second option. Move past the question and go You could say something trying to fully understand I'd love to continue talking and why I think I'm a Or you might say, I'm comfortable happy to talk about my There's no doubt that feel like you're and that may be uncomfortable. But given the stakes, this is likely worth it. Strategy number two, If you feel like you to answer the question to deflect haven't worked for a response, instead of a single number. To go this route, you'll before your a realistic idea of the typical In some places, to include a salary range on you can compare your experience description to determine where If you're working external or internal, you from them directly. If you do your own like Glassdoor and Salary.com. This will help you understand be for the position choose a minimum salary that That number isn't to share while good to have it in the it is time to negotiate. Even with reputable can be hard to translate average or to the specific role. It's reasonable to be a big difference between and a data mining engineer Another option is to ask with similar roles or who maybe even you're interviewing with. Of course, talking about but tackling a will be worthwhile if it helps Whatever you find be careful not to get That can end up with you being or even accepting a might have gotten otherwise. So what kind of range That will depend on like how accurate you feel you're interviewing Typically, it spreads across So say $80,000 to $120,000. Don't give too narrow a be ridiculously big either. Once you've landed on a range here's how to share State your range and for why you've landed there, and noting the skills and a good fit for the position. Acknowledge that salary is will play in your decision Make clear that you're about other benefits as well. And signal flexibility so that as a demand but as the Express your enthusiasm joining the company. Here are three examples Here's sample answer number one. &quot;I'm looking for a that reflects my Based on my research of the role, as I I would expect a salary in the Of course, I'm the details of the package, since salary I'm particularly about the opportunities for Here's sample number two. &quot;Given my experience I'm looking to make in my next role. I've done some research and talked to people in all of which helped I know I'd be a valuable and am open to learning for the role and that you offer employees.&quot; And here's sample number three. &quot;I've been doing some and my understanding is that, with my background I can expect to make a salary to $125,000. Of course, compensation that's important to me. So I'm eager to hear more including paid time What's most important a place where I can thrive. I can be flexible for a job that's a great fit.&quot; Choose whichever option and tweak the language so You'll also want to add about your qualifications so why you're a fit for be excited about hiring you. [MUSIC PLAYING] Whether and how you answer of course. By following the you'll be able to feels most comfortable to you in the running for the job. Importantly, you'll to help make this potentially well, less awkward. Good luck. You got this. Thanks for watching. You can read more about in my article linked And let us know in the like us to guide you through those in a future video. Bye for now.