Joe: I'm not a Philadelphia local, but I know it has some of So I'm taking my friend to Philly from New York to see We're hitting up five of across the city all in the same day to see if we can find This is &quot;Food Tours.&quot; Our first stop: Tony &amp; Nick's in South Philadelphia. Harry: Man, what a country. Joe: I know, right? We're here at Tony &amp; Nick's, not to be confused with Tony Luke's, which was another cheesesteak chain here, but they split off and due to a family feud wanted So they're just Tony &amp; Nick's. Harry: Here we are. First time in Philly. I'm excited. And I know that you've never so I thought this would be No. I've had a steak and cheese sandwich, but nothing that I think Philadelphians would consider a cheesesteak. Joe: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We are at the source. I'm telling you, man, we're and it's going to be great. It's going to be a little overwhelming, but I, with confidence, your mind is going to Harry: Yeah, I mean, I like this place. The location isn't what We're kind of just right off My one critique, maybe, of the decor is that they could have more because I'm not feeling quite The logo of this place is also an eagle holding a cheesesteak. I just wasn't sure how this place could get any more American. Joe: All right, listen up, Brit. You're in Philadelphia, pal, all right? I'm going to drag over to the Liberty Bell and tell you what's what. So take it easy on criticizing OK. What can I expect from What is a Philly cheesesteak to you? Joe: How can I explain this? Like, so, the meat is incredibly savory, but with the cheese, and if some do, some don't, I like but it's this savory, just wrapped in the pillowist-y -- no way that's a word. Pillowyist? Pillow-like. Harry: Sure. Joe: Hoagie-style bun. Harry: Is it a nice, Joe: Are you insane? Harry: Bit more of a Joe: Yeah, a little heavy. Joe: Yeah, I would say, famous Yeah. So, as you can see, we got One is with American cheese, and one is what is known OK. Joe: It's Christmas day, I feel like these need to Which one do you want to start with? I feel like we'll start with the Whiz. From what I've heard, that's Joe: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Harry: Oh, my God. Joe: So, I don't know if I want to wait and tell you about Cheese Whiz Harry: I feel like if I it might make it less appealing to me, so I feel like I'm just So, I'm going to take you do a bite of the Whiz, and then we're going to cheese talk. Going to cheese talk. Harry: All right, man, cheers. First steak of the day. Cheesesteak day begins now. Oh, man. Joe: So, Cheese Whiz, or Whiz, as it's referred to in places like here, it is a already-gooey introduced in about the '50s. It's one of the many cheese There's no official cheese but Whiz is pretty popular. Also American, sometimes provolone. As we've talked in &quot;Food that our food has a Of course, yeah. Joe: All that stuff they probably said in the first two seasons of &quot;What is that?&quot; Harry: It's all in here. Harry: There we go. I mean, yeah, it's pretty good. I can't taste a ton of not super, super generous with the Whiz. It's, like, on the bread But what I do taste is pretty good. I mean, it's got a kind of Not too strong cheesy flavor. So, is the Whiz liquid And if so, how do they do that? Because yeah, that seems worrying. Eh, liquid ... like a gel. Which actually is more But it tastes amazing, so, so what? It really does. That's my and honestly, like, pretty good. You want to try the American I think we should swap halves, yeah. Do you prefer American or Whiz? Joe: Whiz. Come on. Joe: Honestly though, I probably would get provolone more often. Again, please don't come at me, but I like a cheese with a little bit of a savory bite to it. But as far as decadence, Whiz. Harry: Mm. I feel like I don't get a ton of flavor from the American cheese. I guess that's not really The Whiz definitely has a stronger flavor. Yeah, I mean, that's So, like, I don't know. Hard to describe. I really like this style a little bit of toughness on the outside. Joe: And keep in mind, it's with dripping wet with meat and cheese and onions off the grill, so, and it still is keeping It's a little bit chewy on the outside, which I quite like. Obviously quite pillowy on the inside to try and soak up all that juice. Because the bottom of that now is just absolutely soaked So, I personally like mine savory, so I almost always add onions to it. You don't have to. I don't it officially has to I mean, how's that? How's the steak? Steak's real good. Joe: You see how really juicy it is? So juicy. It's dripping with juice. Are they all this filled as well, or are they being really generous here? Because this is packed with beef. Joe: Every sandwich, 8 Harry: That's generous. Harry: That's a healthy portion. Joe: Yeah. Harry: This is dangerously good. My God. You can see why people are, like, very passionate about this, about how it should be done, how it shouldn't be done. Philly's protective about a lot of stuff, and cheesesteaks might be Definitely. Joe: And rightfully so, right? Absolutely. On paper it's quite simple, but it feels like everything very much has its role to play in this sandwich. Joe: You're going to find today that although every single meat, and maybe a veggie, there will be very subtle differences that make it uniquely to But I'm assuring you, every Man. I know we've got quite a lot more to eat, but I kind of want to keep going, man. Joe: I'm going to hang here, buddy. Well, the next place is, so we'll burn off those calories. Yeah, right. We'd have to, to burn off these calories. But it's the thought that counts. Harry: Mm-hmm. Harry: Whew. One down, several to go. Joe: More to go, buddy. Pace yourself. Harry: John's Roast Pork. Joe: We're eating good today, buddy. Harry: Really are. Joe: All right, this is John's Roast Pork. This is a James Beard Award-winning spot. They specialize in roast pork. In the name. Yeah. But we're here Also grab a roast pork sandwich. Third-generation spot. This place, iconic. I mean, look at the Harry: The pig looks pretty happy. That pig cannot wait to be on our plates. All right, a few things it's standard in Philly for most cheesesteaks to get their bread, their rolls from a bakery called Amoroso, but here they do a seeded roll. It's a half Italian roll I might be pronouncing that wrong. Anyway, that differentiates Also, some would disagree I'm a big fan of the Whiz. I like the Whiz on my cheesesteak. This place don't do the Whiz. And who am I to disagree with John for three generations and Mr. James Beard? Harry: Mr. Beard himself. Behold, my man. Joe: This is a 12-ouncer. 12 ounces of meat, extra cheese, onions. Check out the roll. Check out the seeds. Huh? What more do you want? How beautiful does this look? Harry: That looks pretty And, yeah, I mean, this thing is Joe: This is a big sandwich. I don't know how anyone has one of these and goes back to work. No, this would put me in a coma. Yeah. Distinction I want to make, extra American cheese, but the Harry: Oh, OK. Joe: A nice [chef's kiss] flavor to it. You're about to find out. I'm dying to dig into Yeah, I'm pretty hungry. Let's go. Do you want the end Harry: I don't mind. All yours, man. Joe: Oh-oh-oh-oh, ho-ho-ho. I mean, I'm sorry. Are you seeing this? You see the cheese in this Harry: This is hefty. And go. What did I tell you? Whew! Joe: What did I tell you? I think the reason that I the Whiz has a more When you go double or like we did here, it's So I will forgive the Whizlessness. Harry: I do feel like quite a when I'm eating this is the cheese. But, I mean, there's so much meat in here that you're still getting good ratios. It's all kind of mixed Joe: Yeah, the ratio of this for me personally. We'll see. Harry: You like it meaty. Joe: Yeah, I mean, compared I feel like it was a little I mean, this is a much more solid bun. It's holding it more together, even though it's not as thick. I don't know anything about I mean, it's more meat, and the bun has absorbed less juice. I mean, it's not as juicy, I think, but the cheese more It's a different kind of meat, so I think that's probably why. Like you said, between the no Whiz, the loin tail, and the bun, this is a pretty Right, right? They put their own spin Joe: Yeah, fantastic. All right, I know this but, come on. We're at John's Roast Pork; Harry: It is called John's Roast Pork. I was a bit surprised when called John's Roast I'm not surprised anymore, Joe: I'm only going to take one bite because we've got to but you have to try this sandwich. Harry: OK, man. Oh, this thing's stacked. Look at that! Joe: Mm! Just so good, right? Harry: Oh. Oh, man. Oh, my God, just dripping Dripping with juices. Harry: Yeah, you really the importance of bread in a sandwich. Look at all the cheese They're generous with the They're generous with the everything here. All right. If you come to John's, Damn. That's so good, man. Although I'm not hungry anymore, we have so many other Harry: Man. Want to head out to the next spot? I guess so. Let's try it. Let's go. All right, the next across-the-street rivals, so we can't go to one without the other. First, we're going to Pat's. All right, this is Philly cheesesteak ground zero. 1930, first cheesesteaks This was originally a hot-dog stand, and they were making Some customer's like, &quot;Yo, And the Philly cheesesteak was born. This place is so popular. They sell over 6,000 That's a lot of steaks. Joe: Some locals will disagree but I feel like we had to So, I got one because we're and I don't feel like of a sandwich. I hope that's OK. Now, I'm going to unwrap it, all right? That's allowed, yeah. Again, this is Christmas Look, oh. Oh, Yoda. Harry: That looks Whiz-y. Joe: Oh, they didn't cut it in half! Harry: We might have to pick it up and &quot;Lady and the Tramp&quot; it. I want to call your Harry: Please do. Joe: Whiz is by far the most at this location. Says they sell it almost 10:1 American cheese They love the Wheez here. &quot;The Wheez.&quot; They love the Whiz here. Now, I think it's important as someone who has no that to me, Cheese Whiz unnatural yellow that this is. Nothing is this yellow in nature. Not even lemons. Not bananas. So, I can rip it in half, and Harry: That sounds good. I trust your hands to be reasonably clean. Yeah. I was petting a stray but I don't think that matters. All right. Here we go, my guy. The original. The king. Joe: Take a bite, buddy. Harry: Mm. Mm! I got Whiz. You got Whiz! Oh, let me just de-Whiz my hands. OK. What do you get from this one, Joe? For the amount of Whiz that's on this, the cheese flavor is surprisingly not as strong as I thought I thought it was just going a block of cheese, but. I love the cook of the meat. You know, in there they just have a grill. Just, like, the meat There's a long row, but then it's like, boom, steak, Harry: Not being cooked to order. It's just, like, a whole ... Joe: Yeah, well it's going so fast. I mean, it's cooked to order So when I saw that, I was like, &quot;Uh, what's the quality here?&quot; But I think it's really good. The onions are really hitting too for me. Harry: Yeah. If I can draw your it's quite a big ribbon of steak. Whereas I feel like the have been pretty finely diced. I actually quite like the texture of this. Joe: You like that one better. Yeah, I think it gives That's right, because your guys' bacon is that weird, like, flimsy bacon, right? Harry: That's an insult. In America, we like it nice and diced. We like our meat cut up so Do you like the meat here? like I say, textually is really I don't prefer that. I prefer the meat being Because when it's cut smaller It just gets wrapped up The cheese-to-meat ratio I want my cheesesteak to be As cheesy as possible. Now, the roll, I mean, I'm tasting a lot more bread. The bread ratio in this sandwich Harry: Yeah. I'd say it's higher than I'd say less meat in this one, and more emphasis on the bread. Joe: Yeah. I don't think it's a massive I feel like you don't want just a mouth completely full of meat. You need texture-flavor balances going on. Go ahead and isolate that clip. Harry: Shut up. I personally love having a mouth of meat. I think that it is a negative This, to me, if I was in this area, this would be probably depending on the price. My go-to fix. But ... yeah, man, you're These big pieces of steak, I don't know why. Look at this! You almost That's the farthest you've Wow. I'm trying to pace myself, but particularly to me, I just Joe: Great. Harry: Not your favorite. I some credit for being the originals. Joe: Yeah, sure. Oh, It's a pretty good sandwich still. Harry: Yeah, definitely. Now, the next spot we're going to is a little far. It's Geno's. OK, cool. Joe: So I ended up calling and he's parked right across the street. Could we get a shot? He's over there. Harry: Oh, cool. Right, yeah. Joe: In front of the Harry: Easy. But in all seriousness, we're going to go across which is a bit of a rival of Pat's. They opened, I think, in the '60s. So 30 years after this place. I mean, in 1999 they where he described their rivalry as more intense than the OK. And on the show, whether or acting for the cameras, they both tried each on the &quot;Dr. Phil&quot; show, and It's a little much. A little much. That's the level of Joe: It would've been so funny -- you know how they always &quot;And we're revealing the test results,&quot; and everyone flips out? They get the sandwiches, and Dr. Phil's like, &quot;Actually those were your own sandwiches.&quot; Whaaa! Dr. Phil! Dr. Phil! Harry: Phil, Phil, Phil, Phil! That sandwich is not the father. All right, I'm hungry. Let's go eat a sandwich. Harry: Cool, man. Well, here's Geno's. Joe: The front of this Harry: Looks like the Las Here we are. Geno's. As you can tell by how busy this place is, it's probably the tourist Harry: It's popping off here. Joe: In the city, that might be a bad thing. But as you can see, there's This place, they're slinging The owner said that is with provolone cheese. He refers to that as &quot;real cheese.&quot; But the numbers don't lie. They go through eight to 10 So we got it with the Whiz. Man, I love the terminology like a case of wine. Joe: Yeah, I don't know what it is. Is that what you're thinking? I was thinking like a case of beer, like just cans of Whiz, Like, there's just cans Like, &quot;Man, they gotta I'm getting killed here!&quot; Why haven't they invented Joe: Either way, I'm Harry: Yeah, sounds like it. Joe: Here it is, so. Harry: Visual impressions, We'd mentioned earlier being really chopped up. This is not that. And it's almost like the irony well, here's the exact opposite thing you just declared you liked. Oh, you like small pieces of meat, huh? Joe: Yeah, well here's the longest ones. I mean, these are -- Harry: Try and pull one of these out. They just haven't cut this. This is just a full slice Joe: So this is up your alley, isn't it? Harry: This is kind of It's definitely a juicier sandwich. Why don't you pull harder? Here we go. Joe: Also, once again, maybe as small as the one we just had. Maybe as small as Pat's. Harry: Yeah. Joe: Whereas Tony &amp; Nick's they had some weight to it. They were like the weight of an infant. These sandwiches are The bun is quickly becoming soaked in the juices. Harry: But it's soaking it up pretty well. It's a spongy bun. Joe: It's got a good sponge to it. Absorbent. Joe: All right, well. We'll continue. Let's give First impressions, this is Harry: No. Talk me through it. What are you getting? Joe: Here's what I like about that even though it it's still just melting in my mouth, easy to bite through it. So that I like. Harry: Yep. The Whiz-to-meat ratio, But overall, the flavor's I like it. But I'm not flipping out about it. I think I broadly agree with you. Joe: Oh, nice. I like the texture of like I said at Pat's. This is maybe almost too much. Because that is, like I say, they basically just haven't Joe: Do you guys have roast beef? Harry: We do have roast beef. Joe: This is like a roast beef sandwich. Harry: Famously. Pretty similar. I'd say with you tend to get even thicker slices, but that's kind of what you expect. I think one issue I'm the toppings aren't if that makes sense. So you get the Whiz straight on the bun, then quite a lot of beef. Joe: You like it all mixed up. Harry: And then the onions. It's the definition of &quot;just fine.&quot; Right? I feel like we could get this in New York. Yeah, I feel like you could Joe: Yeah. Sorry, Geno's. I'm sorry, Geno's. It's just fine. I mean, look how -- Looks like you're doing OK, so you don't need our endorsement. You can see it, though, That is just one big layer of meat. And that to me, when the Joe: I know exactly what you mean. You expect a cheesesteak possibly oniony, bready bite. Harry: Yeah. All of it in one. So, I think we got room for one more? I think so, yeah. Somehow Joe: Let's go. Joe: Our last stop, it's a little outside of downtown Philly, but I without going to the spot Road trip. Having fun, Joe? It's a little tight. You're probably wondering why I took you to this noisy part of town. Yeah, yeah, that is a Like, all these spots are Harry: I feel like this is of America's lack of walkable cities. The fact that everywhere we've eaten today has been right next to a super-busy road. All right, get off your high horse. Harry: Public transport now! You're just jealous because your city can't have these big when we still had horses and buggies. But the good news is, Harry: You guys do make a good steak. Once again, I got one for us to split. Oh, I'm loving the color of this Whiz. Harry: Ooh! Joe: Oh, s---. Uh-oh. We're in trouble. Harry: Oh, baby. Look, I think it says something a lot of steaks today. Harry: And I look at this, and I actually, I am still quite excited to try it. Joe: Yeah, it's looking really good? Harry: It looks really good. Joe: Interesting fact about Dalessandro's, it's actually built atop Wow, really? Some haunted steaks. Joe: No, I have no idea. I don't know anything about this place other than every Philly native So, OK, we're here. OK, Philly, fine. I think so. Get stuck in, man. Is this No. 5 that we've had? Harry: Maybe six. No five, five. Oh, wow. What a day. Going in. Joe: OK. Harry: Oh, no. Mm-hmm. Maybe my favorite consistency. Harry: Mm-hmm. Pillowy bun. The cheese-and-meat I'm really getting the cheesy taste, and I'm really getting Harry: Yeah, man. This is really good. Generous with the fillings. Maybe the finest chop on I'm looking at yours, That's what I'm looking for. I want total saturation Harry: You know, I kind of I enjoyed more steaky, big pieces of meat. Joe: Yeah. Yeah? But? But. Joe: A mind has been changed? This sandwich is definitely doing something to change my mind. Joe: Oh, that's fantastic. Yeah, see, when it's you have more of an opportunity congeal with the meat. And with the onions and the bread, like, the bread's really pillowy. And this sandwich was Hasn't completely soaked Harry: Mm-hmm. Fantastic consistency. Sorry. Fantastic consistency. Juicy as hell. I'm almost done with this half. Harry: It's dripping off of mine. Yeah, before today I had never had a proper but I'd seen some videos and pictures of them online. And this is kind of how I This has given me a decision to make, man. I know. Uh-oh. We almost got away with our picks, then this one comes in. Man, this is fantastic. All right, buddy. Five Philly cheesesteaks, one day. We are outlaws, baby. Philly fanatics got nothing on us. I don't know how we're still standing. Joe: I don't know either. I'm having to drink a Gatorade like some kind of athlete I'm about to collapse like the 95. Harry: Some topical humor there. Joe: Thank you. That might be rebuilt fully by the time this video goes live, but I'm Joe: So, you had said that you have tried numerous cheesesteaks today. I think elements of a not only the bread, meat, but how they work together. Lets you get that That's what I was looking How about you? Yeah, I agree. I think where some of these might have fallen slightly short is just because they haven't whether that's not enough cheese, whether that's too much meat. There's kind of a few different to get a really, really good steak. But I do think all of them have been good. I would happily go back to But if you had to pick one? If I had to pick one, it's quite tough. I think my runner-up, honorable mention would be John's Roast Pork. Joe: OK. Harry: Because it was really It was like, you know, the I did enjoy it. I do think for me, given my having never had a cheesesteak before but having seen and what I was expecting a was this Dalessandro's steak. Wow! Harry: This lived up Even though we're at the end of a long day of eating cheesesteaks, I would happily finish I don't know. Thought it was I agree with you, except This was my second place, but John's Roast Pork was my favorite. Harry: Nice. I guess with just the way American cheese on there that I know isn't the classic bun or the standard bun that they have, but that one, I was just, like, by how great that sandwich was. Nice. Joe: All right. Starting to Yeah. I'm going to grab my Gatorade, and we can hit the road. Joe: OK, let's get out of here. I want to take another bite, but I can't. We got a long car ride ahead of us. Don't want everyone in the car to suffer. Harry: For everyone's sake.