Welcome back to of an Adoption story. From me connecting with to creating an incredible I'm now helping other For the series, I want to send a special thanks for their incredible support, helping me meet more to hear their stories, and helping me connect more With their support, I would like to welcome of an Adoption story. I have made it here to New York, where I'm meeting 26 He was adopted from Krasnodar, Russia, at the age of eight months He was raised in Long Island to pursue a career in music. Zachary-Victor has always held close that connection with his and the love and support from his parents who adopted him. This is his story. - Well, I was born in Krasnodar in 96 and I was adopted in 97. I was only about eight adopted in March, so you do the math. The interesting part of I found out years later, that the exact day that I was adopted, is my adoptive father's birthday. And I always make a joke to him, I'm like, &quot;Aren't I the Zachary-Victor from the Southern a city that stands directly and near the Black Sea. Though he may not have at the age of eight months, he has always known the story as to how his adoption took place. My adoptive parents had They've been dating since they were in like their late teen years, and in their early 30s, or late 20s, they started trying to have a child, and they were unsuccessful. They tried for about five years and then moved on to adoption. They first adopted my older brother Brian, back in 92, or 93, and about three, or four years later, they decided that they wanted a daughter. They tried to adopt two different times. They tried to adopt domestically and someone from Las Vegas. My mom had flown all the way with like a car seat, right And like a stroller and everything and literally ready to adopt a child. And the mother had, both mothers hadn't changed their minds, after they had the child. So, my mom literally flew baby stroller, car seat and all the stuff. Paperwork had been signed. And lawyers had checked off on everything. Money had been paid for and she gets to the city of Las Vegas, goes to to the mom and And you could only just imagine, she's like holding the child. She's like, &quot;I've just changed my mind&quot;. Before the family they had already adopted though the second chance came with huge disappointment and heartbreak for his After this, they then looked Someone had suggested international adoption, which kind of adds a lot more complications. They had to be interviewed They had, literally wrote you know? They're this age, they Here's a physical description. They look like good parents and they're in a good neighborhood. All of the things, they needed Then they also had to file to be, able to adopt. For any family adopting internationally, the process always involves and paperwork. Zachary-Victor's parents through an adoption agency, which at the time dealt with Russian inter-country adoptions. The adoption agency sent of when Zachary-Victor was There were, however, a few The only information they had of me, was an eight second video when I was about two, to four months old. And I was very still and Actually, they weren't but they were like not And then about a month, or like just sitting and waiting, 'cause they said that, &quot;We wanna see more, can we They said that and they And then one day they with another video about and I'm a little bit more responsive and getting the attention that I need and they're like, okay, we're ready. Zachary-Victor's parents eventually got to Krasnodar. Once they arrived, there was still finalizing before being able to pick His mom, Karen remembers the to finalize his adoption. Though exciting for the family, there was always a worry. That process was very, very exciting, but also very scary and nerve wracking, because we knew at any moment, the fear was that And I'm getting emotional that if we were missing a document, if something was not certified properly, that it could be decided that, we would not be able to adopt Zach. I spent the first in an orphanage in a crib in this eight by 10 room and just like one singular light bulb and virtually no stimulation at all. - Yeah. what life was. When we saw Zachary, it was amazing. We knew from the first For any adoptive parent, going through the process of adopting a child is overwhelming, but seeing a child for the For Zachary-Victor, once his parents picked he himself was overwhelmed Everything was completely new. They took me around to and all the historical landmarks and my eyes were just wide and just looking at everything with awe. I've never seen any of this before. I've never seen so many colors and so much stimulation at once and I've never even heard music yet. So, after my first day out I was definitely exhausted. You know, this baby has Yeah. They take me to the hotel and I'm just like and they're just very happy to see, again, they were nervous that I wasn't gonna be physically well and 'cause there's a lot of cases, unfortunately at that time in orphanages. The one major thing that is this baby gonna be healthy? And they were very happy and very happy to find out that, I was happy with everything I was getting. And they lay me down and they play this song called &quot;Wipe Out&quot;. (Karen humming) And Zack started rocking back and forth and it was really just such a beautiful, joyful experience, 'cause it the first time that he heard music. And I think that, that story, though I don't remember it happening, that story has stuck with me a lot. With Zachary-Victor to be adopted into his new family, everything was new for him. With being so young he didn't understand why he until he got older. Once he started to learn more, he came to terms that within his birth family. - My mother was a single mom at the time and already had three other children, who were about eight, six, and And I was an infant and I believe my birth father had left her and she was struggling and there's just no money. You're in this little town in Krasnodar, there's no work opportunities, And she kept the pregnancy secret. No one, not even my siblings She gave birth to me and gave me right up and refused to take care of me and I was sent to an The sad side to this is that, while my mother was in the hospital giving birth to me for the few days, she had left her other children at home, no food, no one to care for. And the neighbors called the police, because there's these kids, they're crying for hours, they're four, six and eight years old, or something at that time. They can't feed themselves, they don't know how to cook, right? - Yeah. they were also sent to orphanages and unfortunately my other and they never knew I existed. So, it's got a lot of weight to it, for me to have the life that I do. - Yeah. - And just know what could have been, if circumstances were different. Finding out more surrounding his birth family, led Zachary-Victor to more questions, as he started to grow older. During his childhood in his parents always made about the first eight months of his life. - I don't recall a time in my life, where I didn't know why I was adopted. And this is apparently as I grew up, I found out this is a pretty typical arc, is that, I used to tell everyone I thought it was so cool. I was like, I'm adopted from, I would just tell like they're like, &quot;Oh, what's your name?&quot; I'm like, &quot;My name is Zachary Like, a little five year old kid. Just telling everybody, that was just a major part of me. And I didn't really feel I was really just excited. I was a very happy kid. Zachary always knew that he was adopted, as his brother did. And that is something that is, was very important to me, who they are, where they came from, and an important part of their lives. They always knew that this is their story. Understanding for any adoptee plays a huge Zachary-Victor picked as he grew older, but he faced obstacles, when it came to those - In my teenage years, it really being adopted I felt abandoned. I created like these scenarios that I was just unwanted and it gave me a lot It caused a lot of issues for me, like trying to make friends and whatnot. I kind of became a little - Yeah. - Very moody, very emotional kid. In fact, there was a and my adoptive mother but like, I just didn't I really pushed people away. - Yeah. - I became very isolationist. I didn't want, I almost didn't feel like I was deserving, of like companionship, or love, or family or anything like that. It was a dark time for me. I wasn't happy. I felt my emotions very - When you were a teenager, did your parents talk to you a lot about, making sure that you're Was that really hard for them to come by when you were going through this? - I've been very blessed they're very emotionally mature people. And what I mean by that is like my father is a social worker and my She runs the perinatal which means she teaches and she works with mothers all the time, which is very ironic because because she can't have a child of her own. - Yeah. - My parents have always of anything that I've done. They've always blessed I can talk about what I'm going through. As a moody 11, 12 year you're not gonna want to like that's. to yourself. - I always kept things to myself. - Yeah. keeping emotions to yourself is not uncommon. Zachary-Victor knew that his parents were always there for him He's always understood are the people who raised him, while learning that he's always had a birth family link in Russia. - With the exception of the adoption, my mom and dad are my mom and dad. I've never once my life and that they care for me. They've always been willing The parents of adoptees, people that adopt children They're very important, giving people. To say that I want to go across the world and adopt this little boy, Ukraine, any country in It just really goes to show that, you have something special on you and that you're willing like it is your own and it is your own. I came to terms with the not only love me, that they - Yeah. they have stories of their They have a whole life that that they're in to adopt. They always wanted kids and And it was heartbreaking for them. But I think, that that was their fate and I think that that was the best thing that could have happened. - The relationship with his mom and dad though he's always been curious and has always asked questions about his birth family in Russia. He's always carried his Russian heritage throughout his childhood And he knew that one day he to find those missing links. - I was very anxious. You have to understand that I've been waiting my whole life to do and I didn't even know if I felt prepared. Multiple times I spoke to my mom, I'm like, &quot;I don't know if I can do this&quot;. And you know, she always She said, &quot;You don't need to&quot;. - I remember sitting in, we and I brought up the idea to Zachary and Zach's first response was, that he wanted to think about it, which made total sense and that was great. And then within a couple that he was interested in - My birthday is July 8th. I went out for some, my first - Yeah. - I had a couple of beers and then I went to bed and then literally two days later, I'm on the flight to Moscow. - Zachary-Victor and with stopping in Moscow first They both traveled with an organization that facilitates Russian to revisit their birth country. Once they got to the hotel in Krasnodar, after leaving St. Petersburg, this was when emotions As Zachary-Victor didn't was waiting to meet him in the lobby. - Me and my mom stayed in a hotel in the center of Krasnodar and the first time my sister ever met me, I'm in the hotel and we get that was staying with us, &quot;Hey, your sister's on &quot;And she's downstairs&quot; and I didn't know what to do and I was fidgety and very anxious. I actually threw up. - Yeah, yeah. - From anxiety and I just and I needed 10 minutes to recover, right? - Yeah. It's a lot. - And I got up and I got myself together and you know, I went out and it was, the most amazing moment in my life, to meet my older sister Sasha. (soft music) - It was really beautiful. I completely stayed on the sidelines. Zach was interacting with the and they were just talking and I was running around or three-year-old so that And that's really what I wanted Zach to have that time to connect and gain as much as he could - She had Dimitri, Dema, my older nephew, who at that time was about three, or four and Islam who was about He was like an infant at the time. And I can't even describe the feeling. It was beautiful. Meeting my sister was so important and so intense that I felt like, I was in like a dream-like state. - Yeah. - It was such an amazing to just finally like, hug my sister who one, three months prior, And to just really be there. It was just like, is Meeting your birth family, is kind of weird because that it's gonna be like this and it's really like with some lady, with a stranger at a bar. - You don't have that full It takes a while for that. - The early stages, it's getting to know someone - It's almost, I don't wanna but it is a disappointment 'cause you have these high expectations for what this thing's gonna be. - Yeah. you want it to be like the movies and it really is like meeting a stranger and asking them, &quot;What - Yeah. But all that aside, I felt really happy. - For Zachary-Victor and children for the first time, the emotions were still high. He knew as well that of course, there was still more birth family to meet. - The next morning, me, my the translator, my we got in a car to meet my older brother and my biological mother. That actually was a because I had three hours in and I really got to know her and that was an amazing day. 'Cause you're driving through which is just like this open farmland, it's just very open land. And it just, I felt like I I was in another world really, during that three hour ride, that just started to really After a couple of hours of driving having a couple of laughs and really getting to know my sister, I finally got to meet my brother Dimitri. That was a short stay. It was only about an hour, or two, I really got to just hang out with him. You had to understand that, this is the first time that have seen each other in a couple of years. So, it was like a big family For a while they were out of touch and my whole family was out You have to understand that, my mother didn't only give me up, she gave up my other siblings as well and they lived their They were never adopted. I was the only one that was adopted. - That's right. - They only got to see each So, all of us, all my siblings, we all have a little bit of a disconnected relationship from each other. After we met my brother Dimitri, he went back to what he had to do. And then I went to meet my - After meeting his two siblings in Russia for the first time, Zachary-Victor was now getting ready to meet his birth mother. - It was interesting to meet my brother as much but I was even more We finally arrived at her house. The driver pulls off and she's got this little like farmhouse in a big field basically. It's just like a road almost like, feels like every mile, she's really on the outskirts, like almost like in the middle of nowhere. - Yeah. - So we get to the house and my sister calls somebody &quot;Hey, hey we're here&quot;. And everyone gets out of And I just like had to to like really mentally prepare myself. I finally walk up to my mother's house, she's inside in the kitchen and we we're just standing there. The translators with us, my mom's with us. We're all just talking and my birth mother finally and she like just walks over to me and just gives me this This is the first time I've and I didn't really know It was really hard for me - Yeah. very shy and didn't and everyone else luckily and able to start the conversation for me. I didn't, I felt like I felt very.. - Speechless. - Speechless. - You were speechless. - I was speechless. It was, it was like the most - Of course. - Zach's mom greeted us at the car. She gave Zach a big hug, which was really nice. She gave me a hug, which was really nice and surprising and she gave us gifts. She came out with a little - When meeting birth family, it can always feel surreal. Chapters will always open and close. Understanding that takes time to grow. For Zachary-Victor, he knows that his country while also understanding that Did it feel like a new chapter was opened in your life at that point? - A new chapter was but it was just different than I expected. I kind of expected to go there and like us to just like and everything was gonna be okay. But the reality was like, I have to go back to America. This conversation needs And, the unfortunate part is and she doesn't have a She lives in a very off the grid area and she only has like a flip phone and we don't speak the same language and I don't get to keep in touch with her as much as I'd like to. I guess what happened is that all things will be when I met my mom. But the thing is that's not how it works. - A first connection We all envision of how but not everything is always With Zachary-Victor heading after this trip of meeting his sister, brother and birth mother, he still had missing and older sister. He continues to keep in who he met in Russia who with updates on his birth mother. - There have been times stayed with my sister a couple and like I got to speak But, I've gotten some and she's doing well and I get pictures of her here and there and there was one time actually, I almost got to get on a who is like not in touch He had come to visit my sister, she called me and I was at work and I missed the call and she and I was just like, I'm busy, And I finally get outta work and I take a look at the phone my father was with my sister and I could have met him on the phone. - Yeah. 'Cause you never met him during that trip. - No, I've never met my father. I've also never met my eldest sister Yulia and those are missing that journey is still to be walked down and I guess I had the expectation a lot more frequently since then and that, that is the thing is that this is a lifelong journey and you want everything to - Zachary-Victor knows, he'll get the chance to go back to Russia to see his birth family again. For the meantime, he's building his family links and with his life as much as he can. He has also started to With MyHeritage, he's been able to link both his family in America, as well as his family in He knows for his identity, as an adoptee, learning about your With life in New York as a music producer, he has not only had the but also those who work around him. What is it like working this really creative industry right here? And I also know that you have so what is that like? That must be pretty cool. Do you think that this has or your personality within Where do you think this has come from? - As I said, like the first was when I was adopted and that story has always From a young age I was playing the piano at my grandma's house and by like middle school and then. - Yeah. - In high school I we started touring the country. I played everywhere from like Maine, all the way down to I went to film school and just things tied together, right? - I've been studying music my whole life, but I started the academia I went to a vocational program, where I learned how to But it wasn't until the pandemic that I started getting into as just a producer, or as a songwriter. I got a job at the studio in Times Square, during the pandemic, where and I worked my way all the way I build home studios for people. I work with youth programs in their like community for kids to learn how to create and get exposed to different and creative projects. And now I'm a full-time music - So cool and you enjoy it? - Oh, I love it. The thing is that as a music producer, I go by the name Vitya and that In Russia, if your younger you call them Vitya as - Cute version of your name. I didn't get to have I didn't get to grow - Yeah. - So, after some very I decided, what name am I and a producer and a film director and all that? - I said, &quot;I'm gonna be Vitya&quot; (Music playing) (Bacheler laughing) Right now, I'm working with an I have a lot of people that see who I am as like this, Russian-American producer and that they want to see me win, the same way I wanna see them win. - I think it's very important is the fact that there's a connection, deeper than music. And that's why I try to with everybody that's in my circle, but also that I love with, because I like to do something And I find that with Vitya, not only in the way he approach music, but also his background - his story. You might never think like and an adopted kid from Russia but at the end of the day, that's what keep the is that hunger to learn to mix and match them and that people were like, really? I didn't know this was possible. But yeah, I think that's what makes this, whole partnership unique. (Bacheler and Zach laughing) - I've been putting a lot in putting Russian lyrics and it makes me feel good that I'm staying in touch with my culture, while doing something that I love. - With all the artists that you work with, the ones that you are very close with, do they know a lot about your story? - They do. It's actually the first thing because I want them to - Yeah. - I really do want to not only people who are adopted, but people that are in the to feel like they have a home. - To feel like they have to feel like they have a voice and to give them an inspiration - Agree. For every journey that we know that with expectations Every journey has its highlights and moments that we will always remember, but also moments that can For Zachary-Victor, he knows that the first is only the beginning. - When I met my birth mother, I really thought it was that was gonna solve all my problems. It only opened the door I think that a lot of that do want to search for their families, don't know where to start. They don't know how to feel. They're afraid they're gonna That's all part of our journey. - Having support though by your side, really does help. Having a community like what we have, but also having a parent's have a close friend. I think it does help with At the end of the day though, a lot of us adoptees and it is a very hard thing If it doesn't work this time, try again later. It may be better next time, but it's not a fairytale. It never is. - You might break your trying to make it work and you and you might be but you need to realize that you did it. Whatever it is, you did it and no one can take that away from you. You have to understand that as an adoptee, your life starts out this way. Just from the design of being adopted, it means that you were orphaned and there are circumstances - Yeah. - You have to understand that You choose what you do with it and you choose how you walk away from it and how you can have a - Zachary-Victor continues to connect with his birth family in He knows that down the line, when the time is right, While having a life in New York, he does everything he can to hold onto those links to his Russian side and with his parents there to support him, he knows just how much this means to him. With every journey, all of them have their own story to tell. Thank you so much Zachary-Victor for your time here in New York and I really enjoyed hearing your journey from the very beginning. Your time in Krasnodar, at the age of eight your teenage years, going back to visit your birth family. Thank you very much for sharing with me and I'm sure we'll connect again. I know I'll be back in New York and I wanna say thank you for everything. Thank you. - Thank you for coming to tell this story. I know that you're an and it's important to tell these stories, to give people inspiration and be themselves and go - I appreciate that and to me it's about connecting because I know it helps so many. People tune into these stories. People want to listen to other There's always a different and all of us can relate to that. At the end of the day, we all share that one thing in common. It's adoption, but we all have a different journey and I think it's so important and learn from these, whether you're starting a reunion, whether you've had a reunion, whether you've had a bad experience, people can watch these adoptive people, as well as some adoptive parents as well, and they can learn from this and I know that it does help, because this is what it's all about. So, it's good. Thank you. - Thank you.