The first trillionaire there who exploits the natural A single asteroid the size contain $25 billion to $50 There's enough material in population of a trillion The spacesuits that are International Space Station really designed in the Estimates show that by the actually in use, NASA will billion on the redesign and NASA will likely not build Instead, the agency will outside companies. The lifetime of the might be coming to an end. This may look like an Olympics, but that's not here. For the ISS, you want a ability to rotate around And then a consistent about right here in front Easy to translate along the So low torque in the upper Good dexterity in the Eric Valis is a senior He's been testing out a spacesuit, which NASA hopes Space Station by 2026. The spacesuits that are International Space Station really designed in the were originally designed program. Due to the lack of on them, kept repairing for all these many years. But really, these are suits useful life. NASA tried to update its A 2021 report by NASA's found that NASA has spent estimated $420 million to replacement for its aging produce any operational Estimates show that by the actually in use, NASA will billion on the redesign and There were two different One was a lack of funding. NASA had to get funds, you other projects to fund And the second problem was destination. The projects through different political years, and something that and technological and a timeline. NASA is now going another commercial companies to suits. So without further ado, I'm the awardees will be Axiom industry team. CNBC got a rare look inside 120,000 square foot facility located at the where the company showed us NASA's current spacesuits, Mobility Units, or EMUs in complex. The current spacesuit has that make it up, and the is roughly equivalent to refrigerator, about 5.5 There have been a number of years due to the aging A final investigation is in in space of that Italian outside the International His equipment failed him. In fact, they say it was probably saved his life water. In 2022, NASA temporarily following another incident filled with water. We're starting to see some some components that need So on space station, we're very closely the while they are still on In the meantime, these new failure of water in the designed such that that occur. Inventory issues are also a In 2019, NASA was forced to the first all-female International Space Station have the proper spacesuit female astronauts. In the beginning of human spacewalks were beginning of the space this idea of abandoning the to small, medium and large. That worked for a while, is getting more and more work anymore. NASA's Office of Inspector the original 18 Primary only 11 remain in NASA's program, with only four of ISS at any given time for spacewalks. These are suits that were be serviced in space, but because they were dependent So now kind of changing the to keep them up there. And the astronauts are the maintain them. So the minimal. The Portable Life Support bulky backpack and is one of the spacesuit, or EMU. The PLSS houses a variety functions needed to keep an including providing oxygen, temperature, and removing the spacesuit. The second major component System, or PGS, which is surrounds astronauts. Its main purpose is to pressure around astronauts' in the vacuum of space, as orbital debris. Underneath the PGS, cooling and ventilation water flows to help temperature. The new suit suit structure but are There's just normal, what we Certain parts we just can't And so we are building a start using new components, new technologies that are just simply weren't ago. Under the Exploration Services contract, or Collins and Axiom, along industry partners, with up 2034. Axiom won the first design the suits that will Artemis moon missions, and million contract to design of suits for the In addition to making the Axiom will be tasked with parts to keep the suits in as conducting training and staff. The beauty of this contract requirements for these two So at any given time, we contractors to actually what we call platforms. And we also have what we contract, which means if play and they have the can actually bring them them to compete on task Kearney says the continued incentivize the contractors schedule, and ultimately the government down. In addition to the fiscal the vendors with access to own suit development project. What we basically did was made it available to lot of of work and taxpayer system. And so as industry Artemis suits, they were we had available from the Axiom Space would not give spacesuit designs prior to To design this new is working with longtime Oceaneering. Collins, which defense giant Raytheon for the life support in charge of devising the Oceaneering will handle interface capabilities. The companies have a long NASA. We were actually selected to provide those spacesuits along with our partner, ILC We were actually also develop the Space Shuttle Mobility Unit. ILC Dover and Collins also astronauts currently use on One striking difference, The current EMU weighs significantly heavier than There are also other This helmet is different the EMU now. It offers a It has protective visors to radiation and glare. The upper torso is members better and can be orbit, or doing a mission injuries and to make their them. The upper arm is also It provides a better range motion than the current Ferl says that while the 95th percentile of designed to fit the 1st to astronauts using fewer As a result, 30% less launched into space, and decreased crew training Another big improvement in is their increased mobility Things like standing up. You really got to find the but it's definitely do before in the EMU. Extended range of motion important for planetary contract with NASA calls the International Space partners are designing the missions, like trips to For something like the moon restriction you have in the Being able to catch fall is a big plus, concerns. So good mobility One of the biggest going back to the moon is Dust particles, which are talcum powder, they sieve fabric has to be coated or of dust particles. A lot of the lessons learned applied and incorporated, mass, greater connectivity They need a better ability their suits, communicate Because as we continue to Earth, you're going to have capability really need to be able to operate Earth. Something else that suit the length of time that on missions. When we think about some of missions, some of the other incorporated is really just ability to do maintenance that work to be done at the So we've incorporated architecture. So as new they can be incorporated Under the contract Axiom to deliver the suits by August 2025, while scheduled for delivery by Prior to being worn by suits have to undergo We require crew member garment to make sure requirements. And then we call relevant environments. So that could be a thermal That could be in the NBL. That could be actually station. Since NASA is purchasing its as a service, the vendors suits for non-NASA Though Collins would not its other customers, the with about 8 to 10 in their spacesuit New customers that we're current batch of commercial There are countries that in space that were not in participate, and as space more affordable, those opportunity to step in. Romero also predicts that spacesuits will continue to cases of its broader Today, we use it for little for experiential going out and doing space That's really not a part of will become a part of EVA Future programs will have robotics, so our suit needs able to communicate with able to safely operate And it could be big The space tourism market is by 2030. NASA is also looking beyond ideations of future de Leon and his team at the the University of North grant to develop a new 3D for Mars and beyond. De Leon has worked on a projects in the past, but different. Some of the advantages will repeatable manufacturing. The second will be that you build a suit that will be precisely to that And the third one is that go farther away from the Mars, for example. We're more than one year we need a replacement, say, part of the spacesuit, you to get that replacement. So what about if you can put together your suits and Mars? De Leon adds that exploring Mars will likely mean that spacesuits much more Going back to the moon will explorations almost every The same for Mars. Spacesuits, I think they people just because there's them. It's exciting to work critical, that keeps crew I know it's a big every day when we make Yeah, it's really it's It comes equipped with labs, two bathrooms and the view world. Liftoff of the proton rocket module. The first segments of the were launched in 1998, and continuously housed a from 19 countries. At about 250 miles above Space Station occupies an Orbit, or LEO, and houses available for long duration This research has been scientific developments, efficient water filtration ways to treat diseases such But it's starting to show Astronauts launched a very spacewalks today to fix a International Space Space is a harsh over the past couple of within the space station. These are not life serious, but it is an of the International Space an end. International Space Station operate through at least agreements with the However, as we are actively science and research, we some point will have its But NASA will likely not station. Instead, the technology of outside A few, like Colorado-based their way to constructing station. So here we are in the inside It's nearly 30 feet in up into three decks. Space station right now is There's no room, there's no with a large unit volume up a station from multiple greatly scale the capacity just for NASA astronauts astronauts, but for as manufacturing. Right space to do those things. As space enters the a new International Space Over the last couple of relied on outside companies traditionally been reserved Under its Commercial NASA has contracts with to send cargo resupply Last year, SpaceX made first private sector astronauts to the ISS under Program. Boeing is also the program, but is still The commercial crew and are largely considered a Last year, the agency Commercial Crew Program $20 and $30 billion. Since SpaceX and Boeing spacecraft under the benefit of having a backup happen with one of the wise, as Boeing has spacecraft certified for NASA is now hoping to commercial crew and with the Commercial LEO As part of the project, $400 million in total to as begin development of Covering just part of the station would be a big The ISS cost $150 billion picked up the largest chunk partners Russia, Europe, NASA also spends about $4 the ISS. Development of new markets expensive, and the prime party to make those We have done that in LEO, will save money moving to A number of private on their way to launching One of the companies at the commercial space station is In fact, back in 2020, NASA million contract to provide module to attach the Axiom Space plans on modules. The first two will be decked out with massive windows overlooking Some space will also be technology development will be geared strictly manufacturing, and the so that Axiom's modules can independently from the ISS retired. Prior to that, we'll be but we'll fly up our own On the fourth module, we'll we can do spacewalks. And then once we separate ability to continue to add indefinitely. And we modules that are custom for build an entire module particular customer's needs. Funding for its new space come from Axiom's private Axiom has a deal with Crew Dragon capsule and total of four crewed starting as early as Although Axiom does not private missions public, a estimated to cost tens of pays SpaceX about $55 astronauts to the space But Axiom is confident that that's much cheaper than on the ISS. We think we need about $1.2 four modules, and we're on One of the ways axiom has cost of its space station from other industries. Our battery technology is vehicle battery technology. The computer chip in your newer, is very, very we'll use as our computer. Axiom Space plans to launch and its fourth module Sierra Space is another on building a commercial This is just a mock up of the space. So we've put up walls here We have some crew quarter Some of these could be could be used for hygiene, teeth, spending personal as well is required. Since 2017, Sierra Space has inflatable structure that Originally, it was designed take four astronauts to Mars, essentially mission. Since then, Sierra Space has to also function as a Mars or the moon, as well commercial station in low CNBC saw a mock up of the Space Center, where it's The structure is one third International Space in both diameter and The mock up we visited only final version will have We had astronauts in that and the layout. One of the you can actually get here. So because we're so conscious of the fact that there's holds and means within this large space, ahold of something and move spaces within the habitat. The structure is meant to be launched. It was about 40 missions to We can have an operational missions. Our life habitat, we get it on orbit, we can very, very quickly. So significant savings in both what we did on space Sierra Space is also transportation vehicle When you talk about the $3 costs to operate Space pieces of it is that's where our Dream We have a reusable minimum of 15 times. So we're reducing the cost The launch vehicle pricing We're taking advantage of the cost of transportation cost of operations. Initially, Sierra Space will come from NASA and agencies who want to gravity. But down the road, supplement that revenue activities, like tourism and even TV and Sierra Space says the space station will be in The race is on for private commercial space station likely within the decade. Both Axiom Space and Sierra confident that they can station up and running in Another aerospace company, first private space But instead of building a Nanoracks plans to recycle rockets and transform them But as with any space change. Just take the The program's original goal the ISS by 2017, but early failed tests delayed the having a station finished trouble for NASA. We retire the International commercial space stations There's going to be a gap And NASA's already After the agency ended the NASA was forced to rely on launch its astronauts to Station, and the U.S. paid Russia a pretty penny, When SpaceX stepped in in to $55 million per seat. One of the things that is that might contribute to a capabilities, is the lack given NASA to kick start station and commercial low In fiscal years 2020 and million for low Earth orbit only received $15 million respectively. In July, the million for commercial Leo of what the organization Commercial companies can other countries. This is a race to establish Earth orbit and the moon, to be winning that Tonight's launch is the flight in nearly five astronauts to the space seeks to become a major Russia is also planning its Serving government springboard to kick start companies, but a larger, be the key to their long their biggest moneymaker. NASA provides the money, but providing is is wholly this. So we would not do if we did not believe in We really think that real game changer. There's been some really on ice where people have they've developed fiber times transmission length, print perfect retinal But if it was successful, You know, there was no scale. And so by building a a commercial destination, build things at scale and scale and to help customers an entire module to do that kind of As for NASA, not having to will free up money for We've had all these years of now wants to put our eye other exploration items and to the commercial market. Just a couple of years ago, was inevitable. Analysts, tech visionaries astrophysicist Neil that space mining was going The first trillionaire that who exploits the natural In a 2017 note to investors, wrote, &quot;Space mining could perceived. A single football field could billion worth of platinum.&quot; Planetary Resources and backed by the likes of Schmidt, cropped up to take payoff. After all, the holy 16 Psyche had an estimated quadrillion. But fast Planetary Resources and been acquired by companies space mining. And humanity even a single asteroid. But that hasn't stopped a trying. AstroForge's mission, with a vehicle, go out to rare earth elements, and be sold. TransAstra was founded with towards the vision of space, especially the betterment of humanity. There's enough material in population of a trillion So far, the closest we've has been prospecting NASA collected a small dust Bennu as part of its The sample is not due to during the mission, learn that Bennu's surface predicted. In December of Exploration Agency brought known as Ryugu as part of collect the sample. The the asteroid and scooped up Like Bennu, scientists rubble pile surface. Although these recent NASA and JAXA have provided composition of asteroids, become a commercial so long? For one, space endeavor, and one that VC's patience to support. If we had to develop a vehicle today, we would dollars to do that using It would be difficult to community that that's the Take NASA's OSIRIS-REx is expected to take seven over $1 billion, all to asteroid material and Despite its millions in company ever got to launching a satellite to In fact, the mining of a point of satire As seen in this clip from Look Up. This comet hurtling towards contains at least $32 materials critical to I'm sorry, is that why you Is because you're trying to minerals. We should hold Others say mining precious never made much economic If you look at platinum. The production cost for even more. And the price than $1,000. So it means the earth right now. When analysts were looking at the the metals and materials in the look at the economies of In today's economics and in future, the next few years. It makes no sense to go asteroids. And the reason and from the asteroids is outstrips the value of from the asteroids. When we think of space likely come to mind. But in fact, asteroids can which in the short term There is mining materials in then there is return to ideas. They have to compete for those same materials. That would be very happen someday, but it's future. But in the near use in space. The number There are certain types of minerals. We can process the water. Our best use of processing to to make it And then with rocket around space more readily. We don't have to launch all Earth. Gabor says she agrees that cosmos, we should look In short term. We should helium, because it's not and water because it has a An attorney by trade, she with the European Space his legal expertise on He's now an advisor for an to mine water and helium isotope of helium, helium national security medicine Recent helium shortages labs to suspend their security concerns. Knowing what we can mine is how to mine it is another. Brace with new data from and companies have had to asteroids. An older thinking, landing to them, and drilling or that may now look less learned of asteroids. Scientists typically their composition type. C-type, Or carbonaceous and are made up of clay and water. S-type, or stony most common, and are metallic nickel iron and Finally, M-type, or for the rest of the known be primarily made of nickel What we've learned is that piles, as opposed to one piece of material. Based on this new TransAstra has been working technology it calls optical The optical mining process involves, step one, enclosure, what we call a The asteroids are typically they do in space. Our spacecraft matches the flies the bag over the cinches it down tight, so Now, once we contain the then our solar reflectors sunlight into the capture holes in the asteroid and drive the volatiles, the out of the minerals. And then we can capture trap. TransAstra is initially make rocket propellant, enable low-cost space But eventually the company on the periodic table. We've calculated that a vehicle, one we call the asteroid and bring back other ices in a single It's worth about $1 And we know that because we 100 tons of ice in publicly-traded company. But that kind of revenue is TransAstra is funded by and contracts from NASA, venture funds. To keep itself above board, is focusing on developing piecemeal, using the tech incorporated into its already existing market One of the commercial management. With our Sutter turn a small, inexpensive powerful instrument that orbital debris something all the way out to the TransAstra has already system at two observatories technology currently being prospecting. Eventually, launch its telescope tech deeper into the universe. Likewise, there's a business today for their orbital destinations them off. To do this, TransAstra is vehicle known as Workerbee. The body of which can also asteroid-mining vehicle. But the company has yet to technology in space. Still, Sercel says that a small amount of revenue its satellite tugging more than half a million tech in the form of NASA Our plan is to be revenue the way, while we're using these near-term technology. And then as you pieces in place to go out Our mining process is three We have to do a material. So we're going to essentially vaporize it And then we're going to So we're going to each take charge all the atoms. And then once we have a charged atoms, we can sort Astroforge is another to make space mining a Founded in 2022 by a former Virgin Galactic engineer, there's money to be made in precious metals. We have a limited amount of specifically the platinum These are industrial metals things: your cell phone, converters and we're The only way to access more Astroforge plans to mine and space and bring them back The key technology that processing system. So that system consists of that moves the material spacecraft. And then that really, that extracts removes all the unnecessary actually sell on Earth. To keep costs down. Astroforge will attach its shelf satellites and launch rockets. There's quite a few referred to as a satellite This is what you would satellite, the kind of box propulsion system being So for us, we didn't want The previous people before DSI, they had to buy entire They had to build much, expensive satellites, which capital. And I think that both of those companies. SpaceX really allowed a lot aerospace world, basically access space. So now we can kind of focus on just the Ashford says it's raised $23 funding and plans to missions before launching mission in 2025. The company is targeting single mission expected to Our first mission is to send going to take an artificial We are exactly created. So we are going to platinum from this in Mission number two for us This is where we go out to We make sure we can get to can last for two years, and images of it to make sure expect it to be. The third mission, we now to that mission. We're to take a sample of the Earth and we'll study on what the concentrations are Our fourth mission is where together. We send out our arm. We put our processing repeat those steps in order Like Planetary resources and them, today's face a large number of The first is uncertainty established international At the moment, most space the Outer Space Treaty, the Cold War. One of the prohibits the appropriation celestial bodies, such as requires that any space benefit the whole of When it comes to space is about whether Outer space mining. One of the should do with the mined benefit which is coming of whether the benefits should emerging from mining the mining can provide us some knowledge. And the benefit scientific knowledge. In the absence of an law governing space mining, upon themselves to The Commercial Space Launch by the Obama administration when it gave property materials that they mined Though it stopped short of of the asteroids since, Luxembourg, Japan have established their own But Schmitt says not having space mining could be companies from trying to I think that the national companies to overcome the observe, especially when If they invest money and go something, and the ownership is not clear, that what they are going to they will have full freedom whatever they want. But Sercel says there's There's limited slots in you can put satellites. Once you have the allocated other countries and other go there and mess with it. So we're certain that when capture it in a bag and that we will own those Another challenge is even Deciding which asteroids to first place. Prior to missions, all early stage on is existing observation hope that the asteroids the minerals they seek. The most challenging aspect the asteroid itself. We have a lot of evidence scientific data, but we truth knowledge, meaning of missions that have asteroid. So you can design You can control all of The technology piece, you piece you can control, but asteroid is until you get If the companies do somehow materials they're seeking, them. Theoretically, an introduced the commodity enough to crash it. But Astroforge says this is When you look at the supply platinum group metals, the metals is measured right We're talking about per mission. So for us it missions to really greatly curve as we go forward. For now, commercial space speculative, with companies their tech and business believe that some form of eventually take place. The question is when. I think we will be able to next decade. At the very a proof of concept for a also include an actual sale then processed into In terms of the timeline for biggest issue is funding. So it depends on how fast into these other ventures engineering experience, all the components of an But we could be launching to 7 year timeframe. If we have a developed and industry, then I can mining will become a not a ten-year time period. I believe that we are going maybe 20, 25 years from