There are a lot of memorable moments in Dark that stuck out for me. After arriving in Firelink Shrine, you venture on the bridge, narrowly avoid getting roasted Parish, fight past giant soldiers in the church, all the way back at... Firelink Shrine. It's at this moment you realise that the other games. It's not a linear series of zones - but into different areas, then loops back around It seems to snap together like a fancy 3D like navigating a Metroid map, or a Zelda Which is why I'm dedicating this special of Dark Souls 1. I'm going to be looking at how this world of non-linear world design, and how Dark Souls might think. So, buckle up and come with me, Mark Brown, To start, we should identify the basic structure And I think this game fits quite neatly into There's the intro, in the Undead Asylum, boss: the Asylum Demon. Then, for act two, we're in Lordran proper One can be found after we fight the Bell Gargoyles is behind Quelaag, down in Blighttown. You can do these in either order, but most Then, for act three, it's off to Sen's And then we head to Anor Londo, where we fight Now, in act four, the game tasks you with These are collected by defeating bosses who just off from places you may have visited of the Giants, Seath the Scaleless in Duke's and The Bed of Chaos in Lost Izaleth. These often have other bosses along the way, be done in absolutely any order you like. When you've got all four, it's on to the Cinder, for act five. So, I think this works really nicely. Acts 1, 3, and 5 are very linear and have While acts 2 and 4 are more open, and branching. It's an accordion like structure that is You see, the basic outline of Dark Souls is Zelda: A Link to the Past. In that game there's an intro, and then Then the path constricts for Hyrule Castle, old areas, now with access to the dark world, whatever order you like. Then the path constricts one final time for Perhaps it's not surprising, given how Souls his admiration for the Zelda series, but I But then again, while this does describe the a completely accurate portrayal of how Dark You can actually do lots of stuff out of order. You can kill Pinwheel at any time after arriving Kings before ever visiting Anor Londo, and as you've finished off Quelaag. And you can skip some of these bosses entirely. If you take a secret route to Blighttown through and the Gaping Dragon. If you help out Solaire you can skip the Demon And if you choose the Master Key as your initial There sure a lot of Demons in this game. They should have called it Demon's Sou...oh wait. Uh, plus, there are also four entirely optional Priscila, and Dark Sun Gwyndolin - that have They just give you cool goodies. So the structure of Dark Souls really looks Not quite as attractive, is it? But it's a game with lots of branching paths. Like, when you get to the Undead Parish you Butterfly in Darkroot Garden, or fight this Lower Undead Berg and explore from there. And right from the very beginning of the game, to travel up to the Undead Berg but you can, All of this gives Dark Souls a very liberating You rarely get the sense that you're on making your own decisions and following your And while some of these areas are complete there are often items in these late game areas Even a low level player can find the useful And then run out of there in fear. That's because the area is filled with ghosts Likewise, the catacombs are filled with regenerating at a low level. But getting killed is a good way to create If you go into the Catacombs and get wrecked of the game thinking about coming back to Which is handy - because that's where one Now, as i said before, Lordran doesn't just branch connecting points between many of the game's Knock down this ladder, for example, and you can quickly skip all of this stuff to quickly the Undead Parish. And then look at Firelink shrine. While it initially connects to Undead Berg, in the game it will also connect up to the This is achieved through doors that only open So, when you first move through this aqueduct locked door. But later in the game, you'll permanently This means you're not overwhelmed with options as the game goes on, the world becomes steadily So keeping the connected world of Dark Souls because the game has no map screen whatsoever like Metroid 1 and the first Zelda. But there's a quiet satisfaction in being memory alone. Whether that's figuring out the best way location of, say, Andre the Blacksmith, or then knowing how to get there efficiently This sort of spatial memory is reminiscent of the challenge is creating efficient pathways That sensation is largely gone in the other between areas, or wrap back to some central I much prefer the way it's done in Dark also creates a pretty strong feeling of isolation when you venture deep into certain areas. Going further and further into the Catacombs as you're moving further and further away to return to the surface, you'll have to You can't just warp. I feel like you also gain a much better understanding And what a world it is. The extremely vertical nature of Lordran lends and deeper. The game practically trolls you, giving you close to being the lowest point in the game. That area drops down to Blighttown, which Izaleth. This give the world a real sense of history. Stuff built on top of other stuff. Strata. And then, in stark contrast, Sen's Fortress up, higher and higher, which has a very different You get a sense of ascension. Rising action. It makes you feel heroic. Miyazaki has said "After ringing the bells I really wanted to player to feel 'Yes! I've made it'." It's worth noting, however, that Dark Souls - despite the fact that all of the game's Each zone still feels distinct - visually, You've got the pitch black Tomb of the Giants. The twisting staircases in Duke's Archives. The hazy pathways of Darkroot Garden. Traps in Sen's Fortress. Pitfalls in The Depths. Invisible pathways that kinda suck to be honest And then Anor Londo - which is clean, pristine, you've seen before. Now, choice, non-linearity, branching paths, world design, but it does pose two significant One, is direction. If the game isn't super linear and straightforward, does the player know where to go? And, I mean, Dark Souls is a famously obtuse There are no waypoints, no compass, no map You just have to find things for yourself. For the first major quest, ringing the two The first bell is very easy to find. The route to the Undead Parish is largely a natural place to find a bell. But the second - which is deep down in the So, the bloke at Firelink Shrine does give He'll say "There are actually two Bells One's up above, in the Undead Church. The other is far, far below, in the ruins But the route to Blighttown is hard to find. The main path has you find this key in a location this rather random door on the bridge with Look, if you want to seer a door into the door in Darkroot Garden, or the massive locked talks about how it's locked up tight. Those doors are hard to forget, whereas this There is, at least, another route, but this ramp down to Darkroot Basin and then dashing Having two routes is good. And of course, forcing the player to actually out into unknown areas is also fun. But I'd say this is a tad too obtuse and A similar thing happens after finishing Anor and non-repeatable cutscene showing three Basically, in three random areas throughout get to, so you can go off and fight the Four I hope you're in an exploring mood. Luckily, there are probably lots of places from with your tail between your legs, like And because you've got nothing better to will make anyone more confident to explore in these areas - and then naturally stumbling four lords. But at the same time, I do think some cryptic thing could be good. Wandering around looking for the next area walkthrough, at which point the game's sense Anyway. At this point in the game, you'll have unlocked Just like classic Zelda games, you are eventually use the Lordvessel to warp between bonfires. In some ways this is good. As you barrel towards the end of the game, locations and backtracking through finished You just want to get on with things But I actually think that this is where Dark Where the first half of the game felt like about how I would traverse it... the second In some ways, the fast travel almost feels the game already has a good way to get around This is an underground network of paths and Deeproot Basin, and a path that will take The difficulty of the enemies means it's players can use it to speed between areas. However, by the time you're strong enough fast travel - making the area pretty much scattered goodies. The designers could also have introduced some as some speedy way to get from Anor Londo This fast travel also removes a key part of old spaces with new abilities and skills. Now, on my first playthrough, I did have to bonfire near Quelaag is hidden behind an illusionary So I needed to backtrack on foot to get down And you know what? Beasting my way through an area that once feeling that can otherwise be lost in Dark I should note, however, that this can also as normal enemies. Taking down Capra Demons in two hits, and At least not every bonfire is a warp point, the world, and also strategy as to which bonfires Okay. So the other challenge designers have to overcome difficulty curves. In Dark Souls, the Four Lords and their respective Which means you can happily tackle them in will keep levelling up to the point where But I, mean, what are the other options here? You could make the bosses have different difficulty up on the hardest boss first and get frustrated, linear and expected path through what is supposed You could theoretically scale the bosses in I talked about how Uncharted: Lost Legacy Western Ghats chapter, where no matter which always face this puzzle in harder and harder in the correct puzzle before you get to it. Maybe something like this could work for Dark But whatever the case, the actual game keeps though some areas are arguably a bit tougher And while this absolutely allows for open I quickly lost sync with the game's challenge So this video is mostly about the global level About structure and non-linearity and direction. But I do want to touch on more local design I think the defining design philosophy of to mess with you at every opportunity. Look at Undead Berg. This enemy snipes you from afar, forcing you But too aggressive will see you walking into a wall. Then there's a section where you have to avoid firebombs, but then you're right in Then there's a building where an enemy is A flaming trap rolling down a staircase. An enemy that can shoot you from atop a tower. It's a nightmare! The ideal way to play Dark Souls is to move one-on-one bouts where you have lots of room But the level design and enemy placement does archers and spell casters, traps, narrow corridors, The other consideration that the Dark Souls of bonfires. From is quite generous in the early game. but makes you wait longer and longer as you Having zero in New Londo Ruins is a bit of top of Sen's Fortress makes the whole ordeal The world is also dotted with secrets. Pretty much every push to explore will reward markers challenge you to make tricky jumps, One of the biggest secrets though are the These look like normal walls but then fade They actually work a lot like the bombable secrets and not clearly signposted "secrets". But we've come a long way since 1986. So you don't have to waste bombs - but at degrades your weapons will stop you from having Also, everything is optional. You don't need to whack a single illusory And the clever note system in the game means walls, though often with some good-natured These walls generally hide bonfires and treasures, and its nearby Ash Lake. To be honest, one of the most remarkable things huge amounts of content in areas that some Take the Painted World of Ariamis, which is but to get there you need to roll off a moving up in a ball in a bird's nest. This lets you fight a secret boss, get a special the other side of the world. I mean ultimately you'll just find out about and lends the world a sense of mystery and So the world of Dark Souls 1 is pretty special. Branching paths let you explore by following Non-linearity lets you create your own adventure, speedruns. The interconnected pathways encourage you and architecture of the world. The lack of fast travel makes every journey And the game's accordion structure offers forward propulsion. But this sort of world design creates interesting curves and direction: and Dark Souls isn't Plus, the late game switch to fast travel factors. Instead of trying to perfect this structure ditched this sort of interconnected world I mean, these games do still thrill with their The sequels are arguably more complex from is a loopy, branching maze-like miniature more linear. And there are also lots of shortcuts that provides that warm and fuzzy feeling of knowing Plus, there are still many optional bosses, for backtracking. But it's never been quite the same as Dark It's not like using your brain to figure Garden to New Londo Ruins. Or stumbling down some random cave and accidentally Or taking an elevator from the Undead Parish, So here's hoping that, one day, From Software world design that it showed, in Lordran. Hey! Thanks for watching. This is a one-off episode so please design of Demon's Souls or Dark Souls 3 or Bloodborne or whatever. Never say never, but it's not something Instead, I'll be tackling a different franchise I'll see you then. Thanks so much to my Patrons for making this sort of content possible.