One of the most horrific cases of will make you question the morality A 13 year old girl who had spent her entire and emotionally abused, was somehow a mix of the mysteries of human language -- because her It's a story of good intentions, horrible and the deepest depths of human suffering -- When you spend the most important isolation, a decade of deranged solitary Genie's discovery in 1970 was an accident. Her mix of cataracts and neurological damage from and that's why she walked into the wrong social who weighed less than 60 pounds, who walked like She understood fewer than 20 words, like "Mother" and she couldn't speak beyond uttering a Carl Linnaeus, the formalizer of binomial taxonomy, would have classified Genie as of feral human. A New York Times writer Genie's father Clark was incensed by any radio. Clark and Irene's first child probably to create distance from the crying. deemed to be "quick pneumonia," but Genie was tortured much more slowly. During the day she was strapped to a potty were two shaded windows and a single light A piece of wood leaned against one corner -- for making noise. At night she was put in and she was wrapped in a sleeping bag that She occasionally was allowed to play with two container -- and when social workers tried to feed After a lifelong diet of baby food and other Genie's life was the most tragic in her care had ever seen -- or would ever see. And Genie also presented scientific opportunities in modern history: "The girl was apparently uttering infantile noises weeks ago, but the authorities are hoping she That was the question: what could a human experiential, and social deprivation actually most interesting course of study was around perfectly with advances in linguistic theory that Real quick, this video is sponsored by BetterHelp. My video about happiness explored the complexity mind vs its impacts as an emotion. And how through pursuing general human flourishing. It with one of BetterHelp's over 30,000 licensed Just fill out a questionnaire to help matched with a therapist often in less than video call or messaging on a Over 4 million people have used who will listen and provide unbiased advice. doesn't seem like a fit you can switch So click the link below to help support Vsauce2, you can connect with a therapist and see if There had been a few notable cases of the 'feral state of nature as we're likely to get -- starting a "wild child" who emerged from a forest in of cases like Victor and Genie to examine? the woods or tie them to a potty training neglect, or abuse... kids in their circumstances physically and mentally, let alone be But Genie checked all the boxes the natural girl who had virtually no exposure to words despite being on the precipice of WHAT IS BREAD? You've spent a lifetime learning even realizing it -- and Genie was starting First, it's got a name. Bread, and eventually thing? When it gets sliced or ripped up, are those or does it have to be qualified with a sound anything like bread. How small bread and suddenly turns into a crumb? why isn't there a new name when it's a huge This is French Peasant bread. Are the brown it looks nothing like this and tastes completely unleavened flatbreads are both bread. But if squishy before it's baked, is it still called month? Is the hard outside a distinctly separate or is it all just bread? If the individual why don't we list all those pieces when we talk separate parts as "bread," and how do we know You eventually discover that bread is food and as you completely transform it in your Is it still bread as you chew on it, but And if we make a sandwich out of it, why do we it's the top and the bottom of the thing, but all of a sudden we're talking about nothing to do with the sand at the beach If I have two of the same loaf, why singular unit -- but if I sampled And WHAT IS TOAST? These questions constitute only a single word in one language actually means -- Two things were born in 1957: one was so significant that its publication is Noam Chomsky was almost completely Structures," which argued that humans syntax -- they're born with a built-in wholly separate from the development of Around 300 BC, Epicurus theorized that what he saw and experienced in nature, Most everyone before and since thought from deities -- it's such a complex phenomenon Chomsky's theory rejected all of that -- including the notion that we learn language especially our parents. They just built on By the time Genie materialized in 1970, the decade at war with itself over the validity Eric Lenneberg's "Biological Foundations of suggesting the critical period hypothesis -- years to the onset of puberty in which Genie was... a perfectly imperfect test slate as any researcher would ever get. Her and they were about to find out whether she before birth. Was Chomsky right, or was it Genie spent the first 13 years She spent the next 13 years under the spotlight To be fair, no one really knew what to do with and there were no rules beyond the law and general the home -- on the morning Clark and his wife were a minor, he shot himself with a revolver. He left whose testicles Clark had routinely "I don't think he wanted me to have children, and a note excusing me from gym so the kids didn't see him where clothes would be for the funeral, and The other note was for the police. It The Children's Hospital's immediate concern and professionals from several disciplines Kent was the first to examine her -- he said, profoundly damaged child I've ever seen," and he Jay Shurley's field of expertise was the brain a high number of neural oscillations called had a degree of mental retardation. But despite she was perfectly normal on other tests that What Genie did have was an incalculable number "From being a totally neglected waif at the time I had become a prize. There was a contest about Dr. David Rigler led the application for grant Institute of Mental Health -- in February of 1971, about $150,000 today, to run through September of Everything. What could a brain dormant for 14 years, of what amounted to torture, eventually learn even measure Genie's progress, when their human And the first real experiment Normal human development consists of seeing, all guided by veterans of humanity who have that's usually your parents and family. You all the time is some version of "mama," who and the big furry loud thing is a "dog," and "broccoli," especially when you'd rather be an internal monologue using those terms that of information with greater efficiency the larger that database, and the more you How does a child think, "I want to watch act of sitting down and watching a TV show, or a real life person, or why it's nicer or why "mama" trying to force "broccoli" down your know what anything is, what anything is called, What can even go on in their head? That was Genie, but with the entire world even seeing things was hard. She had trouble because she'd spent her life in a never had to process with her eyes She slowly began to get comfortable with the a serious conceptual hurdle. Genie egocentrism -- her entire world other people -- but Dr. Kent felt that "Up until one particular day, Genie way to my coming or going at the end of her expression changed from happy to sad, to separation for her. And that was the first form this relationship. I thought if as long she had the capacity to learn, And then something incredible happened. There's a video of a session with Genie that teacher who would become a major player in to tie her own shoes. Genie doesn't Curtiss noted that she never really initiated BUTLER: "You do it, and then we can GENIE: "Doctor!" BUTLER: "Doctor Kent! Right GENIE: "Doctor!" BUTLER: "Doctor Kent. You tie it?" GENIE: "Tie!" BUTLER: "Tie it." A lot is happening here. In just a few months, Genie's vocabulary had grown from about that's like going from a small set of basic even contains 'Chicken Nugget Golden-Brown.' She knows that "doctor" refers to Doctor Kent -- "object permanence" -- she knows Doctor Kent and happy when she says it -- she's proud of Butler happy by saying it, she understands that She was starting to understand A headline proclaimed "Doctors Judge next to "Skinnies May Take it Easy," about And the researchers all adored Genie. She was a innocence and emerging personality was magnetic. CURTISS: "I could tell as all of us could Genie. And that what we had to do was to make find a way to take what was latent you know, acquire it because the Genie's progress was remarkable. DOCTOR: "Oh, we were off in a million directions. thought, oh wow, I can do this, I can do that. with the pursuits that each of us might look what we might learn from this, a As the NIMH grant progressed, and was renewed, they started to ask questions about... what was it seemed unfocused. It wasn't clear what Susan Curtiss's work on Genie's linguistic Genie eventually produced two-word phrases with hurt," or "Curtiss come" -- and verb + object was thinking in language, not simply mimicking plurals, and her emotional development led to Perhaps the most important development was And then three wars broke out: one between the research project and the National Institute Because Genie's linguistic progress just... divided into Wernicke's area and Broca's area -- deals with grammar. Genie's Broca development it was the limits of her abnormally-developed Was research on Genie proving that Chomsky or Ehhhh? And that meant the NIMH really had no idea what it grants because David Rigler and most of the other asking for money to sort of... just see what DAVID RIGLER: "Nobody knew exactly how to deal best kind of counsel, the best kind of advice, but we did the very best we knew how, and That's... that is not a strong grant proposal. But the conflict over how Genie would live Genie had been at the Children's Hospital, teacher -- said she had been exposed to well. So Genie was quarantined in Butler's arrangement -- so she stayed. Butler claimed manners, physical health -- though researchers Butler even kicked the claiming it was too much strain on CURTISS: "... we didn't have such a fun summer. and anxiety and anger and all kinds of things INTERVIEWER: "Why?" CURTISS: "Why? She was crazy... she didn't want she used to walk around saying 'I am this girl is going to make me famous.' Annie Sullivan was the nurse Jean Butler's application to become Genie's foster living with David Rigler and his family, including is extremely unorthodox for the lead researcher on with them -- but it did give Genie an opportunity When the research project concluded in 1975, Genie grew up in. Her mother had been considered by Genie had a bond with her -- but Genie required So Genie went into a series of foster placements, than the last. She eventually came back to found that the foster home had used an her when she had become constipated. And Genie she forced the food between her been severely beaten for vomiting at the if you never open your mouth, you can't vomit, So she went back to silence and Genie's mother, backed by Jean Butler, sued the outrageous testing on Genie. David Rigler Genie's miniscule estate -- which was a few a lawyer who had investigated the deaths and who now had control over Genie's affairs case. He'd actually bought the gun Genie's What began as an incredible opportunity to give and to learn about how the human mind garbage plate of lawsuits, money, Genie went back into state care. Russ Rymer described her 27th birthday party: "A large, bumbling woman with a facial eyes focus poorly on the cake. Her dark top of her forehead, giving her Susan Curtiss never really got caught up about Genie's linguistic developments? to Genie's estate. The woman who had spent partly as a linguistic researcher, and mostly as said, "I missed her when she wasn't in my I would do a lot. I'd give up my job, But no one ever did. The last anyone knew, Genie was still alive, somewhere in state care. She would And her name isn't even Genie. She was called "Genie" to protect information on who chose it or how it version of the Arabic 'jinn,' invisible and who can be called upon for protection Genies appearing out of bottles and granting Over the years, how many researchers and and then pressured Genie to grant their wishes? to give them protection, and a kind of deus All while Genie herself needed to granted -- her wish to speak, her wish to Wishes devastated by an abusive father, and a life dehumanized by a codename. Her name is Susan. As always, thanks for watching.