&quot;Bon dia,&quot; I'm Rick Steves, back with more of This time, we're in the land Salvador Dali, It's Barcelona. Barcelona! [ laughing ] Barcelona is Spain's second city of the proud and distinct region With Franco's fascism Catalunya's independent is on a roll. Many visitors Spain's most vibrant We'll have some fun experience Picasso's sample the city's tapas, and then go on a tour of culminating in Gaudi's All this before venturing of Montserrat on the Costa Brava with the always provocative Spain fills most of The northeast corner We'll explore its leading city, before side-tripping Figueres, Barcelona has a rich history -- Roman colony, 14th-century maritime power. And beyond all its great sights, its elegant sense of style and its Mediterranean knack The city's main square, is the center of the world for seven million It's a lively throughout the day. The square is decorated honoring important Catalunya has language, history, and flag, which locals fly proudly on government buildings and all alone Catalunya has often been with the central Spanish During the 1930s, was one of the last pockets against the fascist dictator When he finally took power, with four decades During this period, to fly the Catalunyan flag. Instead, to show they flew this -- the flag Catalans consider themselves that's what Spain but a nation [ brass band playing ] &quot;Viva Catalunya!&quot; Steves: The Catalan language to the spirit and history of the Catalan people. Sure, everyone But these kids [ singing in Catalan ] [ flamenco guitar playing ] Steves: Barcelona's ever-popular is the Ramblas. While souvenir shops and crowds of tourists have diluted it still offers to the city. The Ramblas bird market Traditionally, their parents here Apartment dwellers fish, easier to handle [ birds chirping ] La Boqueria, just steps is Barcelona's lively Locals shop in the morning for the best and freshest They say if you can't find it it's not worth eating. Wherever I travel, the cafes and little eateries Here at the Pinotxo bar, even while he and his family are busy feeding shoppers, flamboyant Juan his trademark smile. Back on the Ramblas, the carnival of Barcelona life A variety of street entertainers for your attention Hey! [ squeaking ] [ squeaking continues ] [ laughing ] [ children calling ] [ screeching ] [ laughter ] Steves: The bottom of by the Columbus Monument. It was here in Barcelona that the Spanish King Ferdinand welcomed Columbus home It's ironic that Barcelona whose discoveries that actually shifted the focus away from here and out to the Atlantic, and in doing so, to the downfall as a great trading power. But thriving Barcelona Just beyond a modern, wavelike extension called the Rambla del Mar, stretches into It leads to a popular mall A generation ago, Barcelona's waterfront With impetus provided by it's been completely The former Olympic village, which now houses locals, is marked by Frank Gehry's The manmade beaches, that stretch for miles, Each comes with lively cafes and all are laced together much appreciated and bikers. Surprisingly nearby is the gothic corner. It's a tangled yet inviting of charming squares, rowdy school yards... [ children playing ] rich cultural treasures, and other surprises. [ guitar and violin street musicians take advantage And the old town Two bold towers These were part that protected the city The big stones at the base And tucked away embedded in a nondescript is a bit of the temple Roman Barcelona, And nearby, filling five is a highlight for many the Picasso Museum. Since Pablo Picasso spent here in Barcelona, this is the best collection of his early art By seeing his youthful it's easier to appreciate and his later The museum lets you trace right back Pablo's earliest art Even as a 14-year-old, of grizzled peasants show impressive technique and psychological insight. He painted his first teacher, In this portrait Picasso works on the expression At art school, he captured During these years, the rules so expertly break. His self-portraits show of a blossoming intellect, I imagine, was a handful As a 15-year-old, entered This was his debut work, While a religious subject, to paint his family. Notice his sister's In Science and Charity, Picasso, still just conveys real feeling. The doctor -- represents science. The nun represents charity Judging by her hopeless face it seems Pablo wants to show is inevitable. In his early 20s, turn-of-the-century Paris, a city filled with light He went bohemian, poets, and other artists. He dabbled in different styles by the leading artists He painted Impressionist posters like Toulouse-Lautrec, still lifes like Cezanne, and garishly colored fauvist But later, and his own poverty to his &quot;Blue Period.&quot; He produced lots which matched By this point, Picasso a distinct style painting not what he sees, but what he feels. Despair, a touching portrait of a mother and child, captures the period well. Eventually emerging Picasso enjoyed and prolific career as a mature artist, freed from boring realism and the constraints All his life, Picasso said, &quot;Paintings are like windows These canvases, painted when show the joys of To the end, and loving life As a child, he was taught And as an old man, to paint Barcelona boasts of tapas bars. Some are colorful giving a glimpse from before prosperity Each seems to have Here, it's little plates and glasses of rustic wine really cheap, Some are from like this Basque bar serving delightful little Hungry diners grab a stool, make that's a glass and happily succumb as fresh platters are paraded In these places, When it's time to pay, simply count And most popular these days are the modern and trendy Eaters cobble together of little plates. The key here -- variety. The 19th century was By 1850, the city was busting A new town, called Eixample, was planned to follow Wide sidewalks, chic shops, make the carefully planned Eixample district from the dense Building corners to create light eight-sided squares The vision of the Eixample equally accessible Each district would have its own market, schools, park, While the original vision where each zone the Eixample became for its wealthy residents. While adhering they built as they pleased -- often in the trendy style Modernisme. Modernisme is the Catalan version of Art Nouveau, which flourished across Europe Barcelona was of Modernisme. And especially here it shimmers colorful, leafy, flowing, Several of Barcelona's line the boulevard Because the structures they're trying in creative twists, locals nicknamed &quot;The Block of Discord.&quot; Barcelona is of the galloping gables of the most famous hometown boy His Casa Mila quintessential building Casa Mila is open It shows how the organic Moderniste architecture This apartment would have been It shows how the affluence of the industrial age on a personal level -- Now an apartment could be Gaudi's most famous work Church of the Holy Family, He worked on it until his death in 1926. Work continues on the church, to be completed The nativity facade, essentially finished shows the architect's Mixing Christian symbolism, images from nature, and the organic flair it's an impressive example of Gaudi's The more modern has a different, In the soaring nave, Gaudi's columns Gaudi was a devout catholic. Part of his religious vision was a love for nature. He said, for it's written in nature His little windows like the canopy creating space for an intimate Stepping into this monumental visitors see and what their steep Like the construction of great churches this project takes Gaudi knew he'd never see it finished, working on it today. Yet they all contribute, toward completion. Someday a central will rise above all this. It'll dwarf The vision -- to shine visible even from If there's one building on earth it's Sagrada Familia, For a more playful dose we're heading out While today the grand stairway are overwhelmed Gaudi intended to be a 60-residence a kind of gated community. Fanciful viaducts complement Gaudi actually lived As a high-end the project flopped. But a century later, it's a huge success. As you wander, imagine and you are one Here at the intended produce market -- you'd enjoy and decor Heading home, you'd stroll down Like a surfer's it's another nature-inspired And on such a beautiful day, you'd sit a spell to enjoy a grand view [ flamenco guitar playing ] An hour inland takes us to which many consider A teleferique to the dramatically situated Montserrat means and you see why, Hymns explain how the mountain with golden saws. Geologists blame nature at work. With its dramatic and spiritual connection with the Catalan people Montserrat is a rewarding from Barcelona. It's been Catalunya's for 1,000 years. The monastery was destroyed Then, in the 1850s, as part of Catalunya's renewed Romantic appreciation of things religious, They rebuilt the place, once again the spiritual of the Catalan people. A handful carry on the monastery's Since 1025, &quot;ora et labora&quot; -- pretty much sums up life The Benedictines both pilgrims in hopes the spiritual power Montserrat's top attraction a small wood statue discovered here Legend says she was carved but carbon dating says Pilgrims circulate down leading alongside for their few moments Pilgrims touch to seek Mary's blessing. For a radically different slice of Catalunya, we're heading the town of Figueres the essential Dali site. Ever the entertainer Dali personally designed, decorated, to showcase He was buried right here in 1989, as a mausoleum When Salvador Dali was asked, &quot;Are you on drugs,&quot; &quot;I am the drug. Dali produced some of the most and trailblazing art His surrealistic imagery and intrigue The best known Dali created set in bizarre dreamscapes. His life changed forever when he met an older named Gala. She became his wife, manager, An audience of golden statues Above Dali's personal hangs the boat enjoyed When she died, Below the boat Squint at the big digital and he comes into focus. Look closer, are Gala's other cheeks. The &quot;Homage to Mae West&quot; room is a tribute Dali loved her attitude. She was what he was Facial features arranged so that, the intended vantage point, everything comes together. Mae West. The ceiling of the lounge It shows Gala as they reach Dali's drawers and empty, indicating Dali enjoyed his most creative in the fishing village which has long been a haven for intellectuals [ seagulls squawking ] its craggy coastline, and laid-back lifestyle from Matisse and Duchamp to Picasso. For today's tourists, offers a peaceful beach-town In the 1920s, Salvador Dali bringing international fame Casa Dali shows the creative spirit of His studio was equipped It cranked up and down to paint while seated, The bohemian yet divine comes complete with a mirror the sunrise onto their bed Like Dali's art, And like it's playful Dali's place is artist's home I've toured And it's just of the quirky and creative a spirit that gives Barcelona a distinct charm. Thanks for joining us. Until next time, &quot;Aeu.&quot;