A Woman Drank A 1 Liter Soy Sauce Colon Cleanse This Is What Happened To Her Brain. CG is a 39 year old woman, presenting to the mental status. Her husband, Julio is in a panic because his Earlier that day, CG was performing a soy She was in poor health. She lost 25 pounds over the last 3 weeks. She was iron and vitamin deficient. Her husband states that she had started eating ago. And most recently, she was discharged from a psychiatric schizophrenia, but it wouldn't respond to Believing that the government had poisoned a soy sauce colon cleanse, where anyone who hours, would be able to evacuate their entire This malicious internet disinformation was expense of those people's lives, and unfortunately, the cleanest colon possible. Soy sauce is a brew of wheat, soy and 20% The internet was crystal clear: wherever salt So a liter of soy sauce in her colon will from her body. Immediately after finishing the whole liter faster. She felt pins and needles in her hands and She resisted all urge to drink any water. Over the next 30 minutes, while driving home. CG stops on the side of the road and begins Her stomach is cramping hard. There's nothing clearly leaving her body. At home now, her vision begins to warp. She is dizzy and confused as she begins to Her husband, oblivious as to what had been out of her. He lies her down in bed where she mumbles While he steps off briefly to use the restroom. A minute later, a loud crashing sound and Julio runs to the kitchen where he finds CG Inside the ambulance, her heart begins to Paramedics scramble to resuscitate her with where we are now. Given this history of present illness, there Most immediately, CG is suffering from Acute Hyper meaning high natrium as indicated by its symbol on the And emia meaning presence in blood High sodium presence in blood. Acute meaning there were no underlying pathophysiologic except for the 1 liter of soy sauce in her A 15 milliliter serving of soy sauce has 2 The recommended daily intake is 5.8 grams A lethal dose is 40 grams of salt. A gallon of Jilly Juice has 120 grams of salt. And the one liter of soy sauce that CG drank Five times the lethal dose. Half of table salt is made from sodium giving High sodium presence in blood. The troll claim on the internet, embodies partially correct at first, and establishing the chances of someone believing the entire And unfortunately for CG, she believed the The correct part is that wherever sodium is, In this small science experiment, I dissolve I submerge the tube in a pool of water that You'll see that water flows into the tube, This phenomenon is possible in part because Tonic from Ancient Greek Tonos meaning to tension. A tension of water, due to the presence of Nature tends toward a relaxed state, so a concentration of sodium decreases, meaning hypertonic water. Wherever sodium is, water will flow towards But lets go to all the other parts, which CG was told that the soy sauce would stay Toxin-filled water would flow in and that she'd But, that's not how it happens. To get to the colon, or large intestines, then the small intestines. Her stomach was starting to cramp because the lumen, or hole of, the stomach and water sucked out because wherever sodium is, water After the stomach, the soy sauce continues into the blood stream meaning that the 200 As the salty blood flows throughout CG's single organ. Her kidneys are dehydrating and failing. But that's probably not going to kill her Her heart is dehydrating and failing because That can kill you immediately and her heart Although, that arrest largely in this case can be reversible as CPR can resuscitate her. But what is irreversible is the damage caused her brain begin to crush up against each other, Blood no longer flows through her brain tissue means permanent brain damage in CG's case. Salty people have shrinking brains, as the skull and then are put into the blood. 200 grams of salt contains about 80,000 milligrams Given that the average sodium content of one of sodium, then to get to about 80,000 milligrams, 10 pounds of cooked bacon (550+ slices) to match As her mental status continues to deteriorate, It may not yet be too late, she may yet not have Is there a way, we could remove that salt Maybe. This brings us back to tonicity. The water in your body is mostly inside your we call isotonic. Soy sauce is 20% salt. If the water outside CG's cells has high it means that the solution should be to dilute She is infused with 5 liters of water with The sugar will be absorbed by her cells turning of sodium. She is also given water with 0.45% salt to Over the next 72 hours, CG begins to stabilize. She opens her eyes to say hello to her husband The sodium in her blood, is no longer high But it's not. It's four days later. CG opens her eyes. The nurse instructs her to move her arms, She tries to speak but words can't come Neurology consult reveals a marked dysarthria. Dys meaning wrong and arthria from Ancient Her ability to articulate words in speech This was combined with dysphagia, an inability Quadri from Latin quattuor, denoting the quantity And plegia from Ancient Greek plissein (plessein) Flaccid meaning she is floppy, with no muscle None of these are signs of a stroke. Despite correcting the hypernatremia, it still MRI reveals that CG has developed central Lysis meaning breaking down of myelin, the And central pontine referring to the central stem to deliver nerve impulses throughout This means that something was wrong during When the brain shrinks in acute hypernatremia, We know this happens in other mammals. If sodium draws water out of the brain, then volume by pumping sodium into its cells. Incidentally, It also draws in other chemicals to adapt to its environment. If less salty, hypotonic water is used to from shrinking, but the brain has already cells, then it means that diluted water in causing it to push up against the skull something But her brain isn't swollen. On the flip side, if the less salty hypotonic but the brain has compensated by pumping other don't easily clear the brain. This triggers death cascading into myelinolysis. Meaning CG's brain still functions, but rest of her body resulting in dysarthria, Meaning either way, if you try to correct always end in poor neurologic outcome, and late. None of this answers why she drank a 1 liter Was it disinformation? Maybe. Was it that she was gullible? Maybe. But almost no normal functioning of salt without vomiting, meaning CG had some the visceral reaction to drinking soy sauce, Medical records indicate that she unintentionally and iron deficient. That she was just discharged from the psychiatric to medication. Anytime someone loses a lot of weight unintentionally, we think of is cancer. She didn't have any evidence of tumors, If she was also vitamin and iron deficient, and if you combine that with delusional symptoms able to absorb those medicines either, meaning she And given the fact that she started eating with the onset of her delusions and white she may have had celiac disease, a disease intestinal inflammation, preventing absorption as psychosis and delusional disorder. Looking at cells from her intestines under and atrophy. Increased presence of white blood cells in and giving strong evidence of celiac disease. This means she developed gluten sensitivity and was misdiagnosed, didn't get the care was led to internet disinformation leading supposed colon cleanse, demyelinating quadriplegic. Clinically relevant gluten sensitivity doesn't Celiac disease can develop at any age, some This isn't to incite dietary fears in anyone. Celiac disease is a diagnosis that involves serologic It's not a diagnosis after reading an online And unfortunately for CG, she was sold on We can take out the words "soy sauce" out of that A normal functioning human has kidneys and The liver breaks down chemicals by metabolizing so that they dissolve in water, get filtered In the emergency room, you often see people You see people perforate their rectum from of toxins. Or they drink some weird cabbage juice brew to cure them through some fake causing cerebral hemorrhage, stroke and permanent With proper treatment and follow-up, supportive and adherence to a gluten free diet which a recovery. Thank you so much for watching. Take care of yourself. And Be Well.