Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. On December 17th, 1977, Gary Gilmore was executed for murder. He was the first prisoner executed 10-year suspension of the practice. last words, he simply replied Years later, advertising executive Dan Wieden a slogan, that is now more widely known than Gary Gilmore. are powerful. been leading up to. One last chance to go on record We don't know Albert Einstein's last words. to a nurse who only knew English, They're lost. But what will be our first words? from earth extraterrestrials out there We have been broadcasting signals wirelessly through the air for more than Under the right conditions, and keep going outward at the speed of light through our galaxy, through the universe. to tune into regular TV and radio broadcasts from as near as Mars. would fare better and could point there and hear us. earliest thing be that they could receive? Our cosmic first words. earliest signal, robust enough to be might have come from Hitler. His 1936 broadcasting of the Summer Olympics used powerful forty-one countries, making it a contender for what listening to them, Earth's first words. Within the last 50 years or so, broadcast signals in general, have become stronger and are better candidates for being intercepted. The earliest of them have traveled Altogether they have entertained billions of people and by now about 2,000 stars. The 133 brightest of which are shown here. &quot;I have a dream&quot; speech on the diagram uAra, which has four known planets. our first words on the Moon system. one giant leap for mankind.&quot; Armstrong, with Eugene Cernan, last man to have walked on the surface of the Moon. On December 14th, 1972, before climbing back into the lunar module, our, as of today, last words on the Moon. &quot;We leave as we came and, God willing, as we shall return, with peace, and hope for all mankind.&quot; once inside the lunar module, the crew kept talking, meaning that technically on the surface of the Moon were a Jack Schmitt. We haven't been back to the Moon since. spoken on the surface of the Moon really? leap statement is a good answer, on the Moon if touchdown counts? Then the first words spoken on the who, on feeling at least one of the landing pads softly settle onto the lunar soil, spoke this immortal description: We are pumping broadcasts in the space as an ever expanding sphere of radio waves. But here's something humbling. Earth's radio sphere is puny. This is our galaxy, the Milky Way. the distance our radio signals, our voice has traveled is this big. The universe is huge. How the heck are you supposed Utter last words that stick around after you die? Well, you may have heard &quot;They say you die twice. One time when you stop breathing and a second time, a bit later on, when somebody says your name for the last time.&quot; long after that, right? but, for instance, if you have kids and they have kids and so on and so on, you continue on, in a way. Well, people have tried. for most children passed belongs to Mrs. Feodor Vassilyev. 16 pairs of twins, 7 sets of triplets and 4 sets of quadruplets for a grand total of 69 children. father, that takes less time. for most children fathered by one man is held by Ismail Ibn Sharif, who is estimated to have had more than 900 children with multiple women. But children--or not--in a feedback system like earth or life, cause-and-effect are complicated and never ending. Remember the double pendulums in the initial conditions of a system different outcomes later. I'm flying from London to Los Angeles. can steer it toward the correct runway in the United States, but if the airplane needed to be aimed from London and sent on a straight shot, now, things would need to be very specific. Misaiming just one degree to the left at the beginning would send but nearly 160 kilometres south Your name and your last words might as an initial condition for the universe's future is already happening. Bach died before he could complete The Art of Fugue. during Contrapunctus XIV. reconstructing it. uniquely alive. last words all the time, and finish it in their own way. cool or lame and small you feel, you will continue. guarantees it. unfinished. And as always, thanks for wa...