I'm a professional troublemaker. (Laughter) As my job is to critique the world, the shoddy systems and the people as a writer, as a speaker, (Laughter) I feel like my purpose is to be this cat. (Laughter) I am the person like, &quot;I need you to fix it.&quot; That is me. I want us to leave this world And how I choose to effect change is by speaking up, by being the first For a line of dominoes to fall, one has to fall first, which then leaves the other And that domino that falls, we're hoping that, OK, the next person that sees this Being the domino, for me, and doing the things especially when they are needed, with the hope that others And here's the thing: what you might be thinking A lot of times people think the people who do this, we're fearless. We're not fearless. We're not unafraid of the consequences or the sacrifices that we have to make by speaking truth to power. What happens is, we feel like we have to, because there are too few willing to be the domino, too few people willing to take that fall. We're not doing it without fear. Now, let's talk about fear. I knew exactly what I wanted I was like, &quot;I'm going to be a doctor!&quot; Doctor Luvvie was the dream. I was Doc McStuffins (Laughter) And I remember when I went to college, my freshman year, for my premed major. I got the first and last D (Laughter) So I went to my advisor, and I was like, &quot;OK, let's drop the premed, because this doctor thing because I don't even like hospitals. So ...&quot; (Laughter) &quot;Let's just consider that done for.&quot; And that same semester, That was 2003. So as that one dream was ending, And then what was a cute hobby when I lost my marketing job in 2010. But it still took me two more years Nine years after I had started writing, because I was afraid of what happens without 401ks, without, &quot;How am I going That's important to me.&quot; (Laughter) So it took me that long to own this thing that was what my purpose was. And then I realized, fear has a very concrete power of keeping us from doing and saying And I was like, &quot;You know what? I'm not going to let fear rule my life. I'm not going to let fear And then all of these and dominoes started to fall. So when I realized that, I turned 30, it's going to be my year Anything that scares me, So, I'm a Capricorn. I like my feel solidly on the ground. I decided to take and it was out of the country So on my birthday, what did I do? I went ziplining through And for some odd reason, Don't ask why. (Laughter) And I had an incredible time. Also, I don't like being I like to be, again, on solid ground. So I went to Mexico And then the cool thing that was my mountain was I wrote my book, &quot;I'm Judging You: The Do-Better Manual,&quot; And I had to own -- (Applause) that whole writing thing now, right? Yes. But the very anti-me thing that scared the crap out of me -- I went skydiving. We're about to fall out of the plane. I was like, &quot;I've done some stupid (Laughter) And then we come falling down to Earth, and I literally lose my breath &quot;I just fell out of a perfectly good (Laughter) &quot;What is wrong with me?!&quot; But then I looked down at the beauty, and I was like, &quot;This is This was an amazing decision.&quot; And I think about the times It feels like I am falling It feels like that moment and I'm like, &quot;You shouldn't do this,&quot; but then I do it anyway, Sitting at the edge of that plane and kind of staying on that plane And I feel like every day against institutions and people and just forces that are I feel like I'm falling out of that plane. But I realize comfort is overrated. Because being quiet is comfortable. Keeping things the way And all comfort has done So we've got to get comfortable by speaking these hard truths And I -- (Applause) And for me, though, I realize because honesty is so important to me. My integrity is something I hold dear. Justice -- I don't think justice We should always have justice. Also, I believe in shea butter (Laughter) and I think the world would be better But besides that, with these I have to speak the truth. I have no other choice in the matter. But people like me, should not be the only ones who are who are always falling out of planes or being the first one to take this hit. People are so afraid not realizing that there are many times and we are some of the most we might be the second-most powerful, And I firmly believe is to disrupt what is happening. And then if we're not the most powerful, if two more of us band together, it makes us powerful. It's like cosigning you know, the woman or just making sure that other person is being heard. Our job is to make sure Everyone's well-being If we made that a point, for the times when we need help, we wouldn't have to look around so hard if we made sure And there are times when I feel like I have taken very public like the time when I was asked and they wanted me to pay my way there. And then I did some research and found out the white men and got their travel paid for. The white women who spoke there The black women who spoke there were And I was like, &quot;What do I do?&quot; And I knew that if I spoke up I could face financial loss. But then I also understood So I fearfully spoke up about it publicly, and other women started &quot;I, too, have faced And it started a conversation that this conference was participating in. I felt like I was the domino the time I read a disturbing and wrote a piece about it. I knew this person was more powerful but I was like, &quot;I've got to do this. I've got to sit at the edge And I did. And I pressed (Laughter) And I came back to a viral post and people being like, &quot;Oh my God, And it started a conversation about mental health and self-care, and I was like, &quot;OK. Alright. This thing that I'm doing, And then so many people when they talk about how And it's made millions of women So, a shout-out to Tarana Burke (Applause) People and systems count on our silence Now, being the domino sometimes So, I've been a shady somebody (Laughter) This is me on my third birthday. But I've been this girl all my life, and I feel like because in a world as representatives of ourselves, being yourself can be a revolutionary act. And in a world that wants us to whisper, I choose to yell. (Applause) When it's time to say these hard things, I ask myself three things. One: Did you mean it? Two: Can you defend it? Three: Did you say it with love? If the answer is yes to all three, I say it and let the chips fall. That's important. That checkpoint with myself always tells me, &quot;Yes, Telling the truth -- should not be a revolutionary act. Speaking truths to power But I think if more of us chose we'd be in better spaces Speaking of the greater good, I think we commit ourselves to common ground, and bridges that aren't based So it is our job, it is our obligation, it is our duty to speak truth to power, to be the domino, not just when it's difficult -- especially when it's difficult. Thank you. (Applause)