I want us to go to Second Corinthians Chapter 2 Remain standing for like one more minute Out of respect for God's word Second Corinthians, Chapter 2 I've been messing with this passage for four Y'all help me out, because I've How many of y'all have ever picked a big quickly and didn't even...? Yeah. That's what looking at a passage and y'all just yawn Second Corinthians 2:10: &quot;Anyone you forgive, there was anything to forgive--I have forgiven that Satan might not outwit us. For Now when I went to Troas to preach that the Lord had opened a door for me...&quot; I want to &quot;The Lord had opened a door for me.&quot; it's my door. God gave it to me.&quot; for me.&quot; Point to yourself. Say it. &quot;Now when I went to Troas to and found that the Lord had opened a door because I did not find my brother Titus there. So That's the Scripture. &quot;The Lord had no peace of mind.&quot; We're going to call this Last week, I shared with you Green Man, y'all forget quick. I've been thinking I've been thinking about God's goodness and how Sometimes the obstacle is the opportunity. from a little different angle, and we're going Speak, Lord. In Jesus' name, amen. It feels like in this text we've I don't know if you felt Back around verse 10, it's kind of like one caught in the middle of an argument that &quot;I'm going to tiptoe out real quick.&quot; We you read Bible verses in isolation, it doesn't If you just read one verse, that's good, but They taught us in seminary &quot;The text in context, whatever that means. I spent Interestingly enough, Paul is dealing with laid the foundation for: the church responsible for a lot of Paul's pride It seems in this passage we're reading Paul finds them very important. I don't that gospel practitioner who erected altars for to the Gentiles who were previously not even if he had favorites, but he certainly understood It doesn't mean somebody is more valuable before church started... I don't always auditorium and sat down in one of the seats If I'm not mistaken, it was the fifth row of this So, you in the hunter green shirt, who I was going to preach to today, this morning before you got here. So, if you But I was thinking how in situation is uniquely difficult While we were praising the same God a minute of different things. Somebody was praising You weren't praising him because you memorized you were praising him just As we preach and teach online, God has you situated. Now, Corinth was a because it was a cosmopolitan city that also in terms of culture, because you kind of had to go population in its time. The only cities that were So, Corinth is not only populated, but it's a minute. It was a very important That meant the ships came through there, and it happen and trade could happen and commerce could On the other hand, Corinth was same situation that made it so effective for Corinth was a city where there was a lot of sexual different problems than we have today. They had were messing around in the church at Corinth. Can Paul spent 18 months with them, and he couldn't cast out all of these idolatry devils. They the Lord's Communion wine in Corinth. I used to find it funny. Back &quot;I don't go to Elevation because some of Christians.&quot; I would always think, &quot;That I always wish I could put a closed-circuit Just a little Nest Cam so I can catch you in the Really, to get to the core of how crazy you I'd have to put it... Paul is talking to a group of people who are very important to him. He has invested a lot Nobody can really hurt you deeply if The proof that I love you is that You can't hate somebody you don't love. You can be perturbed by them, and then you can pray for It's not that Paul hates the Corinthian church. important, not only to him personally... Now, it's through his writings to the Corinthian church If you want to really understand Paul's faith in Christ, not through works of the But if you want to see inside of Paul's mind, how God but his relationship with others, you should to know that as powerful as Paul was with God, he through which God worked to The church at Corinth was important as a hinge for the gospel to go forth into the This important church in a seaport city and now he's having to write them about a He said, &quot;I need to forgive you.&quot; It's not that I'm saying you're not important, but all seats in this church are not created equal the one where Holly is sitting right now... That's Now, early in my ministry, I thought that But now where I'm at in my life right now, I but my wife didn't respect my life what I had to say because of the way I I think if this seat... When Holly tells me... I said, &quot;Well, good, because I kind of put What I'm saying is in the eyes of God, fifth seat/fifth row is just In the eyes of God, there's equal value to every your row and then somebody who doesn't even To God, the worth of his children is not based or any of these opportunistic ways that we see what's really important in our lives, what us are praying for God to give us things he simply If we're asking God to give us peace in our receive the peace God gave us through Jesus, So, that's the setup, and here's the sermon. Christ in Troas and found that the Lord had opened This is Paul, the point guard of the New &quot;I had an opportunity...&quot; Now, Paul has seen How many of you...just wave at me...have seen you in places that you could never earn or How many of you were smart enough and competent your own oxygen that you breathed into the lungs Listen. Even your success was The reason Corinth was important was because of Some of us get very prideful but if God hadn't put Corinth by the So, even when God blesses me, I understand did not give the strength, if he did not give the tennis player. If somebody didn't give you a you could have all the athletic ability in all of your human ability means nothing. This is what Paul knows, and that's why he uses &quot;The Lord opened a door for me.&quot; &quot;Don't be mad Lord opened those doors for me.&quot; I remember myself to preach at a church. I didn't like it. I Once I got there, I felt like it was up to of the Lord spoke to me and said, &quot;Don't ever put your messages out. You can put them online. all that. You can do everything you can do to get in a position through manipulation, because There's something awesome about There's just something freeing about There's something great about knowing See, you can get into a relationship and God the rest of the relationship trying to get that you had to put on like a If you had to compromise yourself to gain There's something awesome There's something awesome I need both. Last week we talked about the red and not the other. Kind of foolish. The green Do y'all want all green lights in the just smashing into each other all the time? just to be crashing into stuff we could voice? Pray this: &quot;Lord, open close the door. Either way, I Everybody over 25 ought to You don't know to shout over that What's interesting about this text to me is that we could argue the most important who roughly over a third of the New Testament is formerly Saul of Tarsus, the one who got knocked God closed his eyes and blinded him and sent him sight, and he spent the rest of his life taking 14 churches, and he started out as a Christian the thing he tried to uproot in one season. Only trained under Gamaliel and get him to let go of He said, &quot;The things I once counted as gain I my understanding of my value system of what's as loss, and what was once loss I now count as the and all I want to do is make him known as I come Of all of the churches he at least 14 that we know about. That That doesn't count all of the churches and the grandbaby churches that Paul started. Paul had a part in it, sometimes sowing in tears I want to say one more thing about I'm going to say after I say this about that. The whole reason Paul took the gospel to rejected him. Sometimes rejection While Paul was preaching in Judea, they rights of Judaism. God said, &quot;That's fine. When God opens a door, nobody can shut it. If the door you're standing in front of God will open a door in the desert. We found out He will lead you through, and one of the life is through people who don't like you and So, there has been some conflict with the of time trying to defend himself to the people At certain points he must have struggled with with bitterness for people who should have taken Sometimes I don't know if you go through the same He spent 18 months with these jokers. You know, we have 1 Corinthians and 2 textual background, because this is really that Paul references, and he They got so crazy in Corinth, turning up There was incest in the church at Corinth. Then they had the audacity to accuse Rather than validate himself, he makes a decision Isn't that amazing? He says, &quot;The one who I'm forgiving, and I'm moving forward, &quot;I refuse to let unforgiveness in my He said, &quot;So I want you to forgive, because Here's what happened. This is the part who saw the greatest opportunities for the gospel... The life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. name, you will be saved. That's the gospel. don't have to have the blood of bulls and goats in his name you may have life. Nothing could But he describes something very interesting, He says in verse 12, &quot;Now when I went to found that the Lord had opened a door because I did not find my brother Titus there. So Wow! So, we have Troas (that's (that's one person). Let's look at this together Starbucks today, and I don't want you to miss it. gave me an open door to share the gospel in this Zoom in on the camera. I don't know if this will enough, but try to focus. You can't really see. I want to show you something, because it's a We could have done this professionally. It could have been great. Oh, look. There's Troas. So, Paul is like, &quot;I came here, Corinth, city,&quot; this isthmus that connects southern He says, &quot;You are more important I'm not going to argue with you about this, I'm not going to argue with you about this, There's something important that needs to get church at Corinth doesn't get right with him, to the Gentile world. So he said, &quot;I'm letting Why am I preaching about that? Because some of you are losing the opportunity because The opportunity is greater than the there's Troas. Anyway, take my word for it. is Macedonia. Now Paul has sent a letter to the They said, &quot;Paul is not a real apostle. We like told us to put our pants on and stop sleeping and we don't like that. Paul told us to We liked him when he was telling us 'Be safe but now he's trying to put something in place freedom, and we don't like that anymore. We'd Paul is like, &quot;No, no, no. Stop that. You've got You are an important city.&quot; You are an important about you. You are an important city. If you &quot;I am an important city.&quot; Even though I city. I am a shipping destination. I am I am an opening to generational freedom. &quot;O little town of Bethlehem, from you shall and I have an open door, and God has placed amazing. The Word of God says that if God Revelation 3:7-8. The Lord told the church at exiled on an island, and God still showed him a and God showed him a door. He was isolated in a Listen to what he prophesied to the church at of him who is holy and true, who holds the a kingdom over which he has all authority. So, when people leave you out, you're not Not everybody likes you. Not You don't have to say anything. You don't have to go back and forth. Let it go, So, he says he holds the key of David. &quot;What This is speaking about how Jesus Christ is through nothing else, through no other He is the finisher of our faith. He holds the He said, &quot;What he opens no one can shut, and what he shuts no one can open. I know your deeds. The Lord said, &quot;I placed before you...&quot; That's why Paul had to forgive. He they did...&quot; Look. Paul forgave the guy, but he He just said, &quot;I'm going through the door.&quot; &quot;What can open. I have put before you an open door that the church at Philadelphia, and I believe he &quot;I know that you have little Can I show you something? This is really Verse 11 is one of those I've I didn't even really know what it meant. I never but now I have, and I saw something. He said in this in order that Satan might not outwit What was interesting to me was he didn't say, He said, &quot;Outwit us,&quot; because it's about strategy. Satan is not stronger than you. We just read this. no depression, no trauma, no abuse. Nothing can in your life, in your heart, in your marriage. We'll say, &quot;Oh, well, the Devil is attacking my That's where you're feeling it, but He didn't say, &quot;In order that because that would make it about your strength. &quot;Peace I give to you. My peace I leave trouble. But take heart! I It's not about the trouble in front of you. We What's the point? We could all line &quot;I have a headache.&quot; &quot;I have a backache.&quot; head. I'm decapitated.&quot; I've seen people but that's not what this is about. It's Satan is not stronger than you. If God opens a door to freedom, if God opens the chasing you. I don't care who said you couldn't. It's not about who's stronger. You're like, &quot;Well, that's Jesus. Jesus has says, &quot;Greater is he who is in you than he who is why you're stuck. He's not stronger. You have the that haunts you in your midnight hour has been have been nailed to the cross. That's dealt Paul said, &quot;I had an open door, So, he sent Titus with a letter to the Corinthian to be all right. Do you know your body can be is at Troas, and God has given him opportunities, He said, &quot;But I couldn't find Titus, so I left.&quot; When Paul says in verse 13, &quot;I said that phrase in all of Scripture. It's a solemn He's like, &quot;I couldn't get my mind right, so I because I'm trying to raise these kids, you see. I know God has given me an but sometimes, if I'm honest with you, I'm sitting but my mind is on other stuff. Some of it is real, and some of it is completely fabricated, now...maybe. My mind will drift to the When I saw Paul, I saw us. He said, &quot;I was in Great things could have happened not because of the trouble in Troas The Enemy wants to mess with your mind so much you can't even go through the doors God opens God gives you. He wants to mess with your mind where you can't even focus long enough He wants to get you so focused on something... door with each first letter. One was One was the outcomes you can't control. One and one is the regrets of the I realized that not only does Have you ever opened a door a door of just going down a trail? how different it was from our day where... If Paul would have had the same technology as Paul sends Titus with a letter back to Corinth over the Aegean Sea, and he goes, back, tell me how it's going. Tell me if they the relationship, but he sends Titus with a He said, &quot;Titus, when you get Now, if Paul could have gotten on a Zoom call...just because Titus would have gotten on the Zoom call and Priscilla here. We're all here on the Zoom They got your letter, and they love you. The reason I wanted to show you the map is and Troas where his body was there was a It looked like how sometimes but my mind is another. Paul, with a goodbye to the opportunity God gave me because Has that been you? Let me give you a little been not letting new people love you Have you stopped trusting people, period, trustworthy totally? You never should trust anyone good for you, they're going to let you down. But for you to sit there and go, with anything again. I have to do it all on you have to do it yourself. People are and you're one of them, and Jesus died in the game and do some stuff in this life and not Have you been standing in an open door, troubled you can't go through it? I mean, real but you're scarred. Not only scarred. Scarred and the wound is still open. Now the of your life are slipping away. You say Why was Paul so desperate to find Titus? have texted Paul, this could have all been It takes months to cross the Mediterranean &quot;Is it all right in Corinth? Is it going the correction? Are they back on track?&quot; Every day that goes by that Titus doesn't show Honestly, I can't last five minutes that I don't start making up the most screwed-up I'm serious. If Holly doesn't... within 25 seconds, in my mind she's It's horrible. I know it's kind in the moment. Anybody like me? You and I'm freaking out. &quot;Maybe they don't to me anymore.&quot; And when I text you and it's on Last week I preached about green, but if the text don't ever want to talk to me again. I can get and space. This is Paul's moment. Paul is like, &quot;I so I left Troas because I couldn't find Titus. I left the opportunity because See, that's the Enemy's you can't let the Devil outwit you. He is to run you off from opportunities that are he is? He's bringing movies from the past. He 20 years ago, and it keeps you from seeing But God said, &quot;When I open a door, no devil can begin with is because what God has on the other There will always be a devil at the door of anything significant God brings you into. There Do you know why there's a devil at the really matters. You are an important city. You but God has something with your name and the bigger the opportunity is, the bigger the The bigger it is, what's on the other &quot;Why am I having to go through all this?&quot; Awhile because it's kind of tender to me. I was about to I can't tell you what it was because it would to have a relationship with you on that level yet. On the way to the thing I was going to whole lot. Only Rudy and Rocky III can make Holly has seen me cry so little she thought I funny,&quot; because I was lying on the bed and my head I couldn't answer to tell her I wasn't playing crying. Nobody had just died. I didn't have but what was on the other side I believe there was a devil at the door. There is always a devil at the door when God Why do you think kids get demon If you don't know that, you'll think, &quot;The Devil The Devil is giving you an indication This might be a life-saving word for somebody. on the brink of suicide while I'm preaching, this depressed? Why am I going through is that the size of the Devil at your door Don't die here. This is a door. Don't you let the Devil use to fill your mind with hypothetical There's always a devil at the door. There's always and your awareness of your But he can't close the door God opens. All he can do is try to get your mind so screwed you say goodbye to Troas. We don't see Paul walk but he said, &quot;I had no peace of mind.&quot; You know what? Four chapters go by, and &quot;I said goodbye to Troas. I went to Macedonia...&quot; Every day that I didn't see Titus, I \The Enemy is using a story to keep &quot;They won't really like you. Nobody really cares about you. You don't and everybody is going to laugh.&quot; He can't Every day Titus doesn't show up, Paul has everything is going to be all right. It isn't that we see that what Paul was so He said, &quot;When we got to Macedonia... We had no rest. On every side...&quot; Watch this. This is the trouble on the conflicts on the outside...&quot; But that's not on the outside that stop you. Somebody else has But it's the fears within, Paul said. Then, after months and months of wondering... Who am I preaching to? I know it has been but I've been talking to you, haven't I? It has been in a suspended state for and he didn't come with news of the Your mind is like that &quot;Is everything going to be all &quot;But God, who comforts the downcast, The word of the Lord is &quot;Titus is here.&quot; He said, &quot;He not only comforted us by but by the comfort you had given him. He told your ardent concern for me, so that my joy was Reconciliation is coming. The restoration of not by sight. My eyes haven't seen it yet, He said, &quot;I spent all of those months worried So, you're standing before an open door. You don't always see it. You don't because you have a troubled mind. Let's just take because all the conflict on the outside is God, we came today with troubled minds. I pray I pray for the one who is worried about their a report in their body from the doctors or someone an event that is in front of them they do not God, today I think you wanted to use me, just like door is still open. Thank you, Jesus, that the that we're not too little, He said, &quot;He comforted us by the coming of Titus.&quot; God, let me be like Titus today, bringing sins against them, that you are not angry with Almighty God, opener of doors, way maker, but we need our minds right. We thank you, Lord, that you hold the key that you are our door. We came into your God, right now, for everything we can't forgive we just want to take a moment before we leave this place and slam the door in the face of &quot;You've taken enough. You've robbed enough. You've I'm not going back there. That door is closed. closed. I'm not entertaining that anymore. I'm me in heaven. I'm not waving goodbye to this open I will live and not die. I will declare the works I'm blessed. I'm flourishing in the courts of Right now, with your heads bowed and your There's somebody today... You thought it was too You thought you'd done too much, run too far, couldn't forgive. You thought you were one of Today is the day of salvation. This is the moment. you here for this. The door is open. He stands So, I want to lead you in a prayer right and this is your moment to receive his grace. We don't come to God by improving our behavior. We don't come to God with our knowledge. The Bible says that if you will believe in Jesus life. If you confess with your mouth Jesus is from the dead, you will be saved. There is no more So, for you who want to come through and receive who purchased you with his who has walked with you through You've been far away from him. I'm inviting Pray after me out loud. We're going to slam the lost another one. We're going to pray this as over the world who are coming to Christ today to Heavenly Father, I am a sinner in need of is the Son of God and the Savior of the Lord of my life. I believe he died to give me life. I receive this On the count of three, shoot your three! Shoot them up. God bless you. Amazing. Who else? Come on. Slam that door in to my Father. I'm coming home!&quot; Put the ring on calf. Let's celebrate. What was dead lives again.