This is the space shuttle lifting off on what was about to become one of its most dangerous Journeys into space. Almost immediately fuel started and just 5 seconds later an electrical supply failed knocking its engine control computers offline. Unaware of what was really going on beneath them the space shuttle crew spent the next 8 minutes when suddenly they ran out of liquid oxygen. The shuttle had experienced two major problems but miraculously, they happened in such a way that actually ended up saving the crew We modeled the entire thing to show you and how sheer luck and miraculous circumstances ended up saving the space shuttle. In order to understand why this we need to look inside the shuttle's payload bay. It was carrying the Chandra Observatory Telescope which was the largest and This combination put the mission It had to shave off several tons before the flight and so the crew was limited to five people a lighter external tank was used and all three main engines were One of these was engine 2019 which had already flown on 18 missions making it one of the most used space shuttle engines. Over time cracks had started to show These are the thin pipes that carry liquid oxygen If one of these failed mid-flight it would rip the engine apart and destroy the entire vehicle. Instead of replacing these by placing a small metal pin at the top which This was common practice for NASA and it saved the but as space shuttle Columbia ignited its engines, and shot itself into the In the blink of an eye it bounced off the chamber walls and punctured a hole in the This part of the engine is made up which circulate the ultra-cold liquid hydrogen From here the hydrogen makes its way where it ignites and produces thrust. When the pin collided with the and liquid hydrogen began pouring out of the engine. If just two more of these pipes had been causing a chain reaction The space shuttle was just barely hanging on since none of the sensors could detect the leak. What the sensors did detect since less hydrogen was making its way In order to fix this the onboard computers automatically started which brought the pressure This meant that the shuttle was now and if it continued like this But while all this was going on a completely which put the shuttle offline and it was Just kidding. That isn't what happened. But did you know that Incogni - today's sponsor We all get pointless spam emails and This is because Data Brokers sell our personal it their life goal to fill our inboxes with spam. The problem is even worse since can easily be leaked or stolen by criminals. Incogni reaches out to these and gets them to delete any data they have about you. All you need to do is sign up, Since signing up with Incogni my info is no longer in the hands of any of these companies and my inbox is much cleaner. To protect your personal information visit incogni.com/primalspace Space Shuttle Columbia had just left the launch pad and was already on the verge of a complete disaster. Its right engine was burning through the shuttle might not have made it into orbit or even worse, the engines could have ripped themselves apart. Amazingly a completely separate Inside the payload bay were a series of electrical wires that carried power to instruments all over the vehicle. One of these wires ran alongside a small screw Over the course of many flights, this wire had and its insulation had been slowly worn away. 5 seconds into the flight causing a short circuit and This immediately set off one of which was a fuel cell warning. The fuel cells aboard shuttle used hydrogen and oxygen to produce all of the electricity for the vehicle. If one of these went wrong Luckily this was just a faulty reading The real problem was lurking down below. Two computers in charge of controlling the thanks to the electricity shortage. Each engine had a main computer and a backup computer which would take over if something went wrong. The right engine, which was leaking fuel and the center engine lost its main computer. This caused a unique problem You see, under normal circumstances The data from both computers is compared and averaged out and this is what is used to control the engines. This means that if a sensor on one of the computers it won't have such a big effect on the engine. As it turned out, the pressure sensor on the backup computer was reading incorrectly and it was sending back an Since the main computer wasn't there to cancel this out it tricked the engine into thinking Because of this the engine started pumping less liquid oxygen into the engine to reduce the pressure. This now meant that although the right engine the center engine was using less than normal and so the problems canceled each other out. If the center engine didn't have a faulty sensor the whole shuttle would have and it wouldn't have reached orbit. Had this actually happened, the crew would have still carrying the enormous telescope on their backs. By sheer coincidence, two completely separate problems allowing shuttle to reach orbit just In the end, the shuttle was able to make up for this and the Chandra Telescope was successfully deployed. Since its main engines weren't needed for the rest of back to Earth without any issues. Now time for the Primal Space giveaway. The winner of the previous giveaway is Eric. Congrats! In the next video, we'll be giving away this custom Primal Space design Shuttle poster available in our store. All you need to do is sign up at the link below like the video, and leave a comment saying Thank you very much for watching