- This is a T-shirt cannon. (T-shirt boinging) And this is the cannon that (cannon firing) (Mark laughing) (person cheering) That went farther than anticipated. But to understand the convoluted path for how I ended up here and who the heck this kid is, we've gotta first go back a few months, 'cause that's when I was who had an odd request. Explain what it is you're - Well my dream is the world's (Mark laughing) A T-shirt cannon that could possibly kill. - Now to be fair, his request given he had a college football and he didn't wanna disappoint the fans. And I didn't wanna disappoint a friend, so my first thought was to save myself a lot by just shooting a T-shirt But to do that, I would need Just how powerful is a real cannon? And we're about to find out. (smooth music) Six ounces of black in an actual civil war cannon. Let's see what the heck happens. This is science. And while we load that in, let's review the simple Basically, the gunpowder goes Then you light the gunpowder, and it turns into a gas And then the gases are like, dude, it's suddenly way too crowded We gotta get outta here. And because all these the best option is down the barrel. And since the ball it gets pushed along for the They just told me to keep my mouth open. I don't know why. - Fire! - Oh! Yeah! (people laughing) I'm not sure the Jimmy Kimmel Bowl is gonna allow me to fire I might have to pivot. So obviously an actual But to understand by just how much, it was time for the most on-brand (watermelons thudding) The watermelo-meter. It's watermelon time. (cannon firing) (smooth music) (cannon whooshing) Nice. So while we enjoyed the I was already thinking of a plan B, and I knew just where to turn. This is Anthony. He was being interviewed 'cause he invented a made out of Legos. - Right here, there is - [Mark] So after he they asked about his future life plans. - I wanna be a mechanical engineer, and what would be amazing is if I would be able to with the YouTuber, Mark Rober. - [Newscaster] With who? - The YouTuber, Mark Rober. - [Newscaster] Oh. - Oh, he's my favorite YouTube person. Yeah, good luck. - [Mark] Well, clearly was gonna be my future boss, so I tracked him down, and his parents told him wanted to talk about his build. (electronic beeping) - What's up, Anthony? I have an engineering challenge Are you my guy? - Yeah, sure, yeah. - You know, have you ever seen in a game, they have like T-shirt cannons? - Yeah. - I thought it would be cool to make the world's largest, for like a local high school game here. And this was a bit of a white lie. My real plan was to get Then he would attend what he thought was an Then I would surprise him by showing up, and telling him it was in front of 50,000 people. But first I needed his ideas. So, we started riffing on how - Pull it together. - This back section, we can kind of fill. - And then you have a giant It'd be funny if, I don't know, there was like a chariot beside it, that held like a giant air tank in it. - [Mark] So that, maybe in like that, we could hide it or something, right? - Yeah. - All right, pal. It was really great to meet you. I'll talk to you soon, okay? - Okay. - And now that I knew all we needed was a 10 to make the thing. (smooth music) Time to load the slug. This is about a three pound ball of rags. Let's see what happens. This is the first test fire, here we go. And there wasn't a lot of so this first shot was (air hissing) Three, two, one. (cannon firing) (Mark laughing) Oh no, I think we killed the donkey. (donkey braying) Now it was up to me to go full sandlot, and retrieve this thing. Oh my gosh. (donkey braying) Oh, yeah. So thankfully, both me but it was time to head to a bigger field, so we could really test the I dare anyone to get in my way. (light upbeat music) Now I quickly wanna mention, to really appreciate the you have to appreciate that SoFi, where the game was gonna be played, is just a massive stadium. So the goal of the game was for to be in the top row. And then Anthony, Jimmy and So this is the correctly scaled And since we know the horizontal and vertical measurements to that seat, we placed a drone in the And our goal was basically That seems incredibly far away. I've never built anything that could remotely shoot that far. Three, two, one, go. (Mark laughing) And that first shot was at And you could see it was and had a trajectory sort of like this. It also presented some other issues. Look at that bag, dude. Oh, did we bust? Oh, we ripped a hole. That's tapeable. And after that, we decided just to give and cross our fingers. This is the big mama. 500 PSI, eight pounds. This is like a real life cannon. Here we go. Three, two, one, go. (cannon firing) (Mark laughing) Yeah, that tape, that And considering our payload which is basically a gallon of milk, this was a bomb of a shot. But as you can see from the it wasn't far enough. Now I just wanna remind you, this is how far a normal shoots one shirt, whereas our cannon was shooting the equivalent weight of 25 and yet it still wasn't going to cut it. And so we stayed there the whole day, and there were a bunch more but the punchline was that we couldn't make it to So I had to call Anthony and try and figure out what to do next. What's up, Anthony? How's it going, buddy? - It's been going really good - [Mark] And lucky for me, - Yeah, I'm really busy. - [Mark] So, we got right into it, and for the first issue he suggested we replace our canvas bag with something stronger. - Kevlar. - [Mark Voiceover] He to protect our bag, though. - Something to produce - And then, he went on to tell me how he'd anticipated which is why he'd spent the last two weeks designing, building and testing a system that could release a parachute after a prescribed time delay. And that's when I realized sooner than I first anticipated. Next, he told me three modifications to make it shoot farther. But before I tell you we need to review how the So it's the exact same but instead of using to make it all super crowded with gas, you take a high pressure tank like this, and put some of that high pressure air into this accumulator tank. And then once again, all the it's way too crowded, So when you open this valve, it's a mad dash down the barrel, and the T-shirt just so it goes for the ride And this is the same principle as shooting a spitball with a straw. It's the same principle my super soaker, and that uses air to launch stuff. So his first suggestion was a bigger tank. And this makes sense, 'cause it would sustain instead of like with a small tank where you just get a brief poof. And he went on to mention his second idea. - Or like a longer barrel so - [Mark Voiceover] And this is also true, which is why rifles shoot And his third suggestion of the connecting tube here. So, instead of necking down. - You can just have it go - And that means there's no traffic jams as the air rushes out, which So after that call, we went back and pretty much instituted all of Anthony's suggestions And I was feeling like And so after another full day of testing, this is where we stood. Eight inch cannon, 13 pound mortar with roll the drone, here we go! Fire! (cannon firing) (Mark laughing) Parachute, yeah! The big bomb. We basically shot nearly over a 30 story building, and it traveled for two which put us way beyond Plus, Anthony's parachute system kicked in at just the right moment, so his Kevlar bag landed And by the way, you might be wondering Well, the world's largest T-shirt cannon naturally should shoot the Probably. I haven't looked it up, but this has gotta be the world's largest. Look at this thing. So the next step is actually head to SoFi, and show this to the lawyers and see if they'll let us shoot it. And right off the bat, yeah, you're gonna have to use the smaller barrel and payload, 'cause of like safety or something. I don't know. The goal is to bomb a literally through the very last seat in the nosebleed section of the stadium. Thanks to Anthony's work, never again will the fine be robbed of an amazing T-shirt. So we decided to start at one third power in an attempt to shoot a shot like this, and then we could work our way up. - [Person Off Camera] In three, two, one! - But that is not what happened. (cannon firing) Oh my gosh. (Mark laughing) Oh my gosh. Anthony, what have you done? Out of the park, baby. And not being sure if we tried the same power level again, and this time we dude Oh, oh, oh! Yeah! With a bank shot off the roof. The bank shot, baby! And after that, we decided it was prudent to one fourth full pressure, 'cause if they would've based off our previous test, we could have Uncle Rico'd out the stadium and well But you know, lawyers. Let's have it. And so this was our third and final shot at that reduced 25% full pressure. (cannon firing) (smooth music) Oh, yeah! We literally just hit the back of the seat of the very top row in the entire arena. And that perfectly down to a few inches, which was a huge weight off my shoulders, because I felt like we were And I remember my first and I really wanted this And so after a few last game day had arrived, and as the team started warming up, the stands started filling up. Okay, we just received word. Anthony is on the premises, So, it's time for me to go incognito. And to do that, I needed a prop borrowed It's a beard, but it's like glasses. Friggin' beard glasses. Pretty cool, mm? Stealin' my cameraman's hat. I look like an ice road trucker. Oh, yeah. You can't even tell that's me. I'm more nervous I than I am about actually (light upbeat music) There they are. They just sat down. All right, let's do this. We're sneakin' up behind Anthony. He's in his seats right now. He has no idea what's goin' on. This is hands down my I love a freaking good surprise. Here we go. (announcer chattering) Do you like football? Okay. What's up, buddy? You like my beard disguise? I heard you were here, so I decided to come down and say hi. - I am shaking. (Mark laughing) - Look, I'm shaking just as much. So, I gotta be honest. You know that cannon we've been designing? We designed it for this you're gonna go out with and we're gonna fire it And then the teams came and the game began. And as the quarter progressed, the anticipation was building. - [Interviewer] You got that we should know about? - I do. We built the world's most It is an enormous, very, very and we're gonna do that at halftime. - [Mark] And so with halftime just around the corner, we went to check out his creation. What do you think, buddy? - That looks amazing. - And I had to explain that because of his help, we couldn't go more than 25% pull power. We could crank it all the way up to 550, but that's how you bomb - That's how you break a window. - Yeah, that'll break a window. - [Anthony] I'm really excited. - [Mark] You excited? Me too. Are you nervous? - [Anthony] Yeah, definitely. (smooth music) (audience cheering) - All right, buddy. Two minutes left. You ready? - All right. - Don't think about the 50,000 Just don't think about that part. And then it was go time. - Mark Rober, who is a they built a very powerful T-shirt cannon. You want to show it to us, Mark? - Yeah, yeah, that's right. With my buddy, Anthony. He did all the hard work and designed it. I just built the thing. - You think this is gonna work, Anthony? - Yeah, I definitely - And there's Anthony already qualifying his We do not wanna fire it - Do not kill anyone, Mark. We are gonna be the first ball game to put a T-shirt on the moon. - Okay, here we go. Three, two, it's gonna be loud, cover your ears, one! (audience cheering) - [Jimmy Kimmel] Wow! (Mark laughing) Incredible! - Through the roof. I've been told we've We went out of the stadium. - Well, that was very exciting. Thank you, Mark. - Yeah, you're welcome. Good job, buddy. We did it. What'd you think? - That was insane. - That was all you, pal. Good job. Thanks, Jimmy. - Thank you. - [Mark Voiceover] And so to appease the lawyers Anthony just noped it So after that we went back as I just hoped he would for a really long time, so that I could at least when I apply to work for his company. (light upbeat music)