(thrumming music) - [Narrator] Sydney, Police and the press are on full alert. (music continues) For the guests and dignitaries gathering at the Sydney this is the most prized the night they dine with Diana. She has come to speak at the Victor Chang Cardiac Research Institute Dinner in honor of Australia's top She praises Chang as an was not fixed on the Her words have a telling for whom there is no other (stately music) Princess Diana last visited for the bicentenary celebrations. This is her first visit to Australia as the divorced wife of And there's an air of (indistinct) Lord Archer, who has advised her at some of the most critical believes her appeal is - We're talking about a superstar here. She's immensely popular worldwide. She's a highly attractive woman. And comes over to the man as a caring, decent person. (crowd cheering) And there's no getting away from this. You can't suddenly invent &quot;Nobody loves her, we I think the problem is that And this isn't going to go away. - [Narrator] Today, that level The crowds still turn out to see her, talk to her, touch her. She's returned to the country she once toured in When she came in 1983 with Prince Charles, her appeal was one of in the palace armory. The House of Windsor did not hesitate to show off the young princess Australia, New Zealand and Canada, where the Queen is head of state. In her Panorama interview, &quot;We had a six week tour. Four weeks in Australia By the end, when we flew back to Britain, I was a different person. I realized the sense of duty, the level of intensity of interest, and the demanding role That demanding role was on the young princess. She was suffering from after the birth of William, and from bulimia, an eating disorder. (stately music) 13 years later, and now fully recovered. Diana, Princess of Wales Elegant, glamorous, an unequaled composed, in control, and very popular. (indistinct) - [Crowd Member 1] Hi, Di! - [Crowd Member 2] Hi, Di! - [Narrator] Despite her Diana still hopes to become a - What she wanted and what over the last year is to be and represent Britain in the way she has represented Britain in the past. But with the support, knowing that there would be to help organize trips and so on. That hasn't been forthcoming. It's been a consequence that she's done her trips on her own, privately, individually. - [Narrator] Back in 1983, the Waleses were immensely popular. Who could have guessed that their marriage had been anything other than a love match. It was a message that the royal were keen to convey. The warmth which greeted the princess enhanced her husband's image. Together, Charles and Diana Underneath, Diana was learning to cope with insuperable pressures, while still full of doubt The root cause of bulimia, Had William been left in Britain, Diana May have been unable to cope with this long separation However, Malcolm Fraser, arranged a temporary base for William so that Diana could be close to her baby. But on a trip to Canada later that year, Diana was compelled to The pressure on her was mounting. Her suffering kept undercover. Asked on Panorama if she Diana said, &quot;I was compelled and not let people down.&quot; In turn, the public supported her, carrying her through the difficult times. (camera shutters clicking) But bulimia had taken over her life. On a tour of Expo 1986 in She'd been surviving Charles was embarrassed by her failure to maintain royal decorum. Diana's bulimia had its roots As a child, Diana had grown up at Park House on the Sandringham state. (stately music) She was a girl much above the ordinary. The youngest daughter of she was the flower of British aristocracy. It seemed a protected charmed life. But the family split after parental rows. When Diana was six, her The children remained in (music continues) Diana went to boarding school where she excelled at sport and music, coming home for events such to the Queen's assistant private a crucial link to Diana's future. - She'd take all in her stride. I think she'd always be like that. She's very practical. Very practical, very good housewife. And incidentally, when she was a baby, she was a superb physical specimen. She'd want any baby prize there was going. (stately music) - [Narrator] The Spencers when Diana's grandfather, Her father inherited the title and a 100-roomed ancestral mansion, Althorp House in Northamptonshire. The Spencer line can be traced back to the Normans and beyond. There are links to Charles II. Diana's family can than the Germanic House of Windsor. The honorable Diana Spencer entering adult life fully aware of her aristocratic background. - I called my daughter Diana after her. Because she's one of the old family names of the middle of the 18th century. There have been links with the monarchy and with the nation as a Really, 'cause one of my prime minister to three and William and Mary. And ever since then, there've been very close Queen Mary was one of my godmothers. Prince of Wales those days And my mother was a lady-in-waiting. And now my daughter has - [Narrator] Becoming Princess of Wales was a dynastic prize. When Diana won it, her father's pride and On that glorious July morning, almost none of the world's had any idea of the truth behind the wedding of the century. Front row privilege in was given to Diana's closest who knew many of her secrets. With Diana's maternal were her sisters, Jane and Sarah. They knew of Diana's fears and had comforted her, joking, &quot;Your face is on the tea towels, so you're too late to chicken out now.&quot; As mother of the bride, Frances Shand Kydd still returned in triumph to the court, which had virtually exiled from Diana's father. Diana's grandmother, Lady Fermoy, a close confidant to the royal family, had serious doubts about as a royal wife. - Well, she certainly But I think that that's the that unfortunately you what they don't want to hear. - [Narrator] Ever the consummate courtier, Lady Fermoy's loyalty to the to her friend the queen In their minds, Diana was - I think that that's perhaps wrong to say it was an arranged marriage. And just because everybody wanted it doesn't mean to say it was arranged. I think the Prince of Wales convinced himself that he loved her. And I think she certainly Whether she was actually as a person, or whether she was in love with the whole mystique of I don't know. She certainly went into it willingly. She was absolutely I mean, she didn't know about Camilla. But I think she thought I really don't think anybody And I think although he thought it was his duty and he must go ahead with it. I mean, I think she's And I think it was a great shock for her to discover she couldn't really And they were actually I don't know if you remember And, you know, Prince Charles saying, oh, that she was absolutely and all this kind of thing. And I mean it turned out, of course, she wasn't like that at all. And so they didn't have a - [Narrator] Some of knew all was not as it seemed. The bride and groom, his Archbishop of Canterbury the wedding was the stuff Later he told his it was an arranged marriage, that the couple were ill matched, that Charles was marrying primarily to produce an heir to the throne, but he hoped Diana would Both families had achieved of dynastic family planning. The queen had satisfactorily and the divided Spencers marry into royalty. But saying goodbye to him the sad truth was beginning to intrude on her romantic dreams. The warning signals had been ignored. Diana was left sobbing. Charles had just taken a Camilla Parker Bowles. From the start, Diana was the focus of a foretaste of greater pressures to come. Diana later accused of was a recent convert to the game. All that mattered to her then was being part of the For Charles, the media was - Knowing for years that from every quarter and So, you can get used to a certain extent. And on those occasions you And I think if you don't try some kind of method for existing, and surviving this kind of thing, you would go mad I think. And so in the end you do get used to it. But I decided to find you're beginning to get used to it. - Just. - [Interviewer] It is I suppose one of the most important things you're gonna have to - Of course, yes. - [Interviewer] And Prince Charles has been a great help to you in that. - Much, a tower of strength. - [Narrator] Whatever support Charles gave was clearly insufficient. One person who might have she now calls the dark ages Based on her own experience of Grace took the nervous girl &quot;Don't worry dear, it will get worse.&quot; When Grace died tragically after a stroke which caused fatal injuries in a car crash in September, 1982, Diana for permission to represent Privately, Diana was unable to bear the pressures of her life. A few months after her wedding, she threw her herself down - So you have so much pain inside yourself that you try and hurt 'cause you want help, but it's the wrong help People see it as crying And they think, 'cause you're you've got enough But I was actually crying out in order to go forward and my role as wife, - [Narrator] Diana into a visible queen in the making. At the state opening She appeared with her hair but the publicity eclipsed the serious nature of the occasion. Princess Margaret scolded her saying, &quot;Don't ever upstage the queen again.&quot; Charles's friends Columnist Jean Rook accused Diana of becoming a living daily Diana is still nicknamed Barbie Charles spent more time Diana suspected that this was an excuse to see more of Camilla as these occasions were written into his diary before any public engagements were added. (crowd cheering) Diana and Charles still put on a show of affection in public. (audience clapping) Privately they behaved with - Queen Alexandra put up with We are living in a different age, and women have different expectations. And so I think it was rather difficult for somebody who wasn't to cope with this situation. Very probably if he'd she would've just, you know, looked away, turned a blind eye to what was going on, and just regarded as her duty - These were turbulent years for Diana. She turned for help to advisors, and astrologers. Sarah Ferguson, the Duchess of York, recalls in her book &quot;My Diana was teary and (stately music) Diana's father was a vital when her marriage was disintegrating. Sadly, he died in March, 1992. His funeral was a harrowing Prince Charles arrived following an alleged private Earl Spencer had lived on borrowed time after a brain hemorrhage. And seeing William, the was precious to him as he recalled in a television interview. - William was five yesterday. I thought of that, I but I was there. Able to ring him up and talk which was great fun. Great day for him. Great day for him. I sent him a lovely present. Maybe he has a happy day. And hope to hear all about - [Narrator] Diana's family history had been marred by feuds. She, her sisters and brother disliked Raine, their stepmother. Although today she's one of Diana's circle of strong women friends. Charles did not add his name to Diana's touching floral tribute. His message was attached to a wreath sent by the Queen and Prince Philip. Charles attended Earl with his wife and sons. The show of togetherness was deceptive. Charles had felt obliged to join Diana for appearance's sake at other Spencer family On his father's death, Diana's brother Charles He took control at Althorp and later married the Prince Charles accompanied Their marriage ended in separation after the fragile Victoria became unable to cope with her problems. They too fell prey to of unhappy marriages. On holiday with King Juan Diana's frailties left her unhappiness and her a happy family image out of duty. Unloved by her husband, Diana found comfort in the arms of a young officer, James Hewitt. His looks are strikingly reminiscent of her father as a young man. Diana's love affair with James Hewitt lasted on and off for five years. When she addressed the wives in 1991, Diana was thinking then a tank commander in the gulf, often in the line of fire. - There is nothing of which will fill that gap in your lives. And to say that I, along understand and sympathize sounds very inadequate But it is the least I can do, and I do feel for you with all my heart. - [Narrator] Diana admitted - [Interviewer] Did your relationship go beyond a close friendship? - Yes it did. Yes. - [Interviewer] Were you unfaithful? - Yes, I adored him. Yes, - [Narrator] Despite what in their lives, Diana still and government, accompanying to fly the flag for She admitted she had in these years. Eating in public, of lavish courses at a banquet, put her under particular pressures. But friction in the marriage grew over Diana's escalating popularity. Diana claimed that He found her ascendance too hard to bear, and he ended the double act. Anxious to protect the a propaganda campaign was mounted to discount stories of serious problems. The palace insisted that a marriage, which Charles now admits had irretrievably broken down by 1986, was happy and wholesome. Sarah Bradford believes - It was much more of a shock once everything came out, wasn't it? But I think that whatever happened, it would've been very bad. Because after we all had this And then when the facts came out, I think everybody was (audience applauding) - [Narrator] It was at that Diana stopped pretending. Expecting to kiss his wife, she The big lie was being exposed. Diana had an ally in her They had shared many confidences before marrying into the House of Windsor, and as sisters-in-law understood Unknown to the public, they had made a pact to leave (cameras clicking) Both deeply unhappy, Diana and Fergie had resolved to break from palace control and begin afresh in a search for happiness which had so far eluded them. (triumphant music) In March, 1992, Fergie unceremoniously but Diana waited. She had her secret weapon already primed. A group of friends had of her marriage to the whose book would be published that summer. One of those friends was her Diana attended her wedding and became godmother to their son. Carolyn had witnessed Diana's exalted marriage had caused. - When the Morton book that the Princess's friends because they felt that the truth should be told about this And they all thought, I'm told, that the princess would and to have another life. But this didn't happen. And I don't know whether and thought, I don't that I want to be separated, And so she backtracked. - Diana chose to send symbolic messages to reinforce the story she She visited the Taj Mahal shortly before his wedding. She called her visit a healing experience. The dynastic marriage that had as a love story had proved After &quot;Diana: Her True Story,&quot; the royal family faced but with hindsight could - I think most of us feel perhaps that they should have been I think there has been a and I think that people have tell the Prince of Wales The queen's not given to probing into other people's private lives, and that includes the I think she was taken by surprise and very upset that it wasn't working out. - [Narrator] Diana's had told others that Diana She died in 1993, and to the royal family through her friendship with the queen mother. Lady Fermoy had fallen out over the Morton book, but they were reconciled The old lady also patched up a long rift with her daughter Frances, when Lady Fermoy had testified against her over the custody of the children, Charles genuinely grieved for Ruth Fermoy. She had given him and the royal family the kind of unquestioning loyalty After exposing the sham marriage Diana suffered reprisals. A tape of an intimate and an old friend James Her friendships with other A series of phone calls made were leaked to the media. Her relationship with became front page news. Shortly afterwards, he After the publication of the Diana found her role as Charles's office orchestrated Following a disastrous tour the Wales would never again be sent abroad as joint representatives for Britain. John Major brokered a deal would live separately but would preserve the official side of their union. He hoped that with arrangement, Diana could still become queen. - Constitutional positions are unaffected. (crowd cheering) - [Narrator] The princess still appeared with the royal family at important events such as the state visit (calming music) This is the last time Diana for such an occasion, her all too sadly evident. (music continues) Diana has said in her own three was a crowd. And the dominance of Camilla Parker Bowles had grown to the extent to place his affair with Charles's cooperation for a candid television took the princess and &quot;Did you try to be faithful when you took on the vow of marriage?&quot; &quot;Yes, absolutely.&quot; &quot;And were you?&quot; &quot;Yes, until it became Diana's decision in at least temporarily from public life climaxed with a dramatic speech which she planned to make The palace and the Prime Minister's office maneuvered behind the scenes to make sure she was stage managed Her friend Lord Archer's through this traumatic event. - We got her on stage And I introduced her and I simply said, &quot;Her Royal Highness Princess of Wales would like to make a statement.&quot; And she was trembling. And she was in... She was very, very, the whole thing was. Her Royal Highness, the Princess of Wales would like to make a short statement. Your Royal Highness. (audience clapping) - Ladies and gentlemen. It is a great pleasure sharing in your successes When I started my public I understood the media might I realized then their attention on both our private and public lives. But I was not aware of how overwhelming that nor the extent to which it would affect both my public duties and my personal life in a manner that's been hard to bear. At the end of this year, when I've completed my diary I will be reducing the extent of the public life I've led so far. Obviously, I attach great and I intend to focus on a smaller range of areas in the future. Over the next few months, I will be seeking a more suitable way of combining a meaningful public role, with hopefully a more private life. My first priority will William and Harry, who and attention as I'm able to give, as well as an appreciation into which they were born. I would like to add that this with a full understanding of the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh, who have always shown I hope you can find it in and to give me the time and space that has been lacking in recent years. I couldn't stand here today without acknowledging I've been given by the public in general. Your kindness and affection some of the most difficult periods. And always, your love and And for that, I thank you - I mean, this was pin dropping stuff. Because they hadn't been expecting it. They'd come to celebrate they hadn't expected a And they burst into thunderous applause. And I could see her trembling. (audience applauding) Your Royal Highness, I when I say we sympathize with (audience clapping) Whatever course your life now takes, be assured there are many all over the world who for the dedicated service and care you have brought to everything you do. On behalf of those people who cannot be with us today, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Her Royal Highness, the Princess of Wales. (audience clapping) - [Narrator] Lord Archer took - Follow now, walked and she just followed, and and cheered her all out of the room. Took her back to the palace, and I remember leaving 20 minutes later thinking, She's gone through all of and no one there at all. I mean, no one, it's not as if, I mean, I suppose some about princesses think running around getting food and bringing people in to meet her. There was one man who I and he left at 6:00. So she's in this great and I remember going back you know, wouldn't it be Of course we can't. You can't ring up a princess and say, &quot;Would you like to come to dinner?&quot; But I remember that she must be very lonely. And then I reported what back to the Prime Minister And she and her typical good manner, she's a beautifully mannered woman, sent a handwritten note with a small present saying, &quot;Thank you for taking care Again, typical of her beautiful manner. (reflective music) - [Narrator] Diana returned to public life the following year. The need to honor the brave meant that she took her on commemorative occasions. Seen behaving with respect and dignity at these sad remembrances there is a sense of loss. Diana is the queen that never was. (music continues) The Queen had persuaded Diana to stay within the royal The official separation However, three years later, Divorce was inevitable. This shocked Diana when it - I don't want a divorce. But obviously we need That has been of enormous discussion over the last three years in particular. So all I say to that is that of which way we are all going to go. - Diana did not agree to a when she could no longer whose letter sent in December of a royal command. Diana told friends she felt - Well, I don't think she was After all, I think she removed herself. Although perhaps in the and didn't want to get divorced, and I think made it plain that she didn't. Over the years, I think certainly that she wanted out. And I think as always in who wants to make the first move? Because the person who makes the most move has to pay the most usually. (laughs) - I think that's perfectly true. She didn't want to divorce. She felt that the separation status gave her a position still. It was important to William and Harry. Everything Charles and Diana have done has been for William and Harry. And there was therefore no - I mean I think that most that the queen should have banged their heads together longer. And said, well, you know, they were, you must get on with it. After all, we're not who live cheek by jowl in a tower block and have no personal space. Plenty of room for that. So the trouble was it just - [Narrator] As part of Diana received 15 million pounds. At their final meeting, she dissuaded Charles from She told him she had always loved him, she had no regrets about marrying him, and she was agreeing to a - She was an asset we would be so good. And you see it when the crowds turn out, and their reaction to her. I think most people, and I may be wrong, but my reading is that most people are very sorry about the divorce. They're very sad about the divorce. That they would've liked that to go on. They would've liked them to go on as Prince and Princess of Wales. - [Narrator] With the divorce, hopes of Diana becoming Queen ended. She had claimed that the saw her as a non-starter for Queen. Her huge pulling power abroad did not secure her future at home. - I'd like to be a queen in people's hearts, but I don't see myself - If she doesn't want to be queen, she doesn't want to be queen. She said that she doesn't like the idea. I personally would've thought Also she's been extremely good at being a princess of Wales. (stately music) - [Narrator] In 1992 and of the royal family, Diana appeared on the Buckingham Palace On her divorce, the Her Royal Highness. It was an unpopular move. - As the mother of a future king, she should be accorded the Others decided that it was not to be. But it looked more and more really, for the way the Diana of course, indicated back in February 1996 to give up her title because she felt she was taking a back seat from now on. But I think she always hoped that it would never come to that. I think she felt that she principally as I say, for Prince William and Prince Harry, say. - Once you are divorced, no longer a real member in anybody's family, this is true. And therefore, you no longer in the view have right to that title. But I think that it did appear petty. And there is also the problem of her being the mother of the future king. And so some people thought to have left the HRH. (stately music) - [Narrator] When she heard Her Royal Highness, Diana of which she was royal Her presence will be sadly missed, and her love and affection (music continues) - It meant an awful lot to the status, she felt, of her charities. And it was because of that, that in fact, she decided on all her charity work and (nostalgic music) - [Narrator] The Campaign for also found a sympathetic Diana was not afraid of Public concern and confusion about the facts had been growing. But pictures like this did more than a thousand reassuring Now officially out of the royal family, Diana's future role is uncertain. On a private trip to Argentina, she had hoped to improve Some felt that she lacked and experience for such a mission, no matter how well she was received. (music continues) Without a formal role, can leave her open to political wrangling. This was the case when Diana Jemima Khan to her husband (music continues) - There are problems, I mean, there was that business and Jemima Khan in Pakistan and got very involved in the But simply by the act that was regarded as a So she's not really wise to get herself along in - Diana's international acclaim is particularly evident - This is one of the that the White House has ever had. It's because she is a woman who has had a tireless commitment cancer, leprosy and other health issues. - Hillary Clinton is who give Diana inspiration. As her life changes, Diana has moved into a women with international experience. One is Lady Elsa Bowker, the Her diplomatic advice Another discreet friend is Liz Tilberis, her constant (nostalgic music) Divorced and stripped of her title, Diana is still treated although many close to the royal family see her as an outlaw, an by the most powerful family on earth. - I don't think she has a great deal of contact with the royal family, but of course she cannot isolate and she's always gonna be part of them, because of the mother, as the So she will still be seen, I think, with the royal family when William and Harry are there too. But there isn't a great deal of contact. There really doesn't need to be. I don't think they want a and she doesn't want a great - [Narrator] For Diana, will mean separations from her children, who spend those holidays with the queen who is grooming William for kingship. - I think that he'll be properly trained. And I think that, you know, you have those privileges, - [Narrator] On his in years to come, William taken from his mother on her divorce. - Maybe Prince William, one day, King William might feel differently. And it's in his power so to do, because the king or the and therefore they can do what - [Narrator] Every man she's seen with is viewed as a potential husband. Diana's personal life is often - Had to be lord mega It is very difficult cope with being Mr. Princess Diana? It's a terrific problem for her. - She had an unhappy first marriage. She'd like to make a very Perhaps she'd like to have another family. But I don't think she's This has been, it was an an extraordinary experience, and it took an extraordinary long time to get out of when it all went wrong. So I suppose next time she's gotta try and pick the right man. And as she has said herself, she's always been a very bad picker. - [Narrator] Diana's role She has no husband and no official duty. She's a woman alone, a whose message of hope is intertwined with a renewed belief in herself. Following her success since divorce, There is a chance that the the value of their lost into the theater of monarchy. (upbeat music)