- I grabbed 50 random people Everyone put your right hand on the car. Whoever takes their hand off (cheers) And I have over 50 every single hand on the Lamborghini. We'll know if they take it off. - Do you see how beautiful this car is? It will be mine. - As long as it takes, we're not going home. - I'm already ready to go home. - You're probably wondering, how do you use the bathroom? Chris, rip off the windshield wiper. (cheers) We now have a windshield wiper that if you're touching you are still technically There you go. You can get off the car. (cheers) I expected people to but I wasn't expecting to be one of 'em. (yelling) - Oh, he's out. - What happened? - It was all in my face and I reacted. - Congratulations on being first out. Here's a 1,000 dollars. 49 of you remain. (cheers) - It wasn't on purpose! - You took the Lamborghini from that man. - I know! And I feel bad, Cole. Someone's eliminated. (laughs) - 49 left, I'm not gonna be one of them. - I think a lot of people because my brain's already slipping up. It's only been 3 hours. (rock music) - Raise your right hand if you're hungry. (crickets chirp) (laughs) One of these times, But anyways, we brought you all pizza. Give me a second. (cheers) - Oh yeah, good stuff. - I'm hoping that while some people slip up and And with so many people packed together it didn't take long for - Somebody stepped on my foot, and I moved my hand. I got to see my kid, Doug. (crowd awws) - The Lambo would've been cool though. - [Mr. Beast] It's harder than it looks to remember not to use one of your hands. All it takes is one little slip-up and one of our 50 cameras will catch it. The water bottle falls. - Yep. - You go to pick it up. You then stare at the camera. (contestants laugh) Whoever gets out next but you have 10 seconds. - Me! - [Mr. Beast] 10. 9. - 8? - [Mr. Beast] It is a brand new Nissan. - Shut up! - Congratulations on the brand new car. Later, nerds. Drive us off. - I don't know where we're going. - And in case you're on that Lamborghini is You should subscribe so you can compete in one of these videos. (upbeat music) It's almost midnight and I'm because I want them to fall take their hand off the Lamborghini. Who wants the sleeping bags? There you go, here's a sleeping bag. I did not mean to hit him in the nuts. There's some sleeping bags. All right, everybody. Get a good night's rest. - I think these guys on the ground definitely have a top tier strategy. We don't trust ourselves sleeping because our hands are gonna move. - [Mr. Beast] It turns out he was right. - Someone fell asleep and I I'm gonna give him $1,000 (laughs) (dramatic music) So you woke up and what'd you find? - $1,000. - Who put that there? - I don't know. (melancolic music) (upbeat music) - [Mr. Beast] Good morning, everybody. 28 of you survived the night. How are you feeling? - Half the team here - I hate him, he talks too much. - Oh wow. Really? - I'm gonna be honest boys, you've been pretty tame this video. - Ooh. Let's create mischief. - And mayhem. - Can I scooch past you? (car revs) Do you think that'd scare anybody? If I did one of those real (car revs loudly) (contestants yell) I literally just said, do - I just grabbed the bottle and I'd looked up and I was like, dang, I'm toast! - Welcome. Here's some prizes. - Thanks so much, bro. Still walked out with something. Let's go! - Could've won a Lambo. - It's time we do something special, okay? Bring in the ramp. Full disclosure everybody, we've built this ramp So, who knows what will happen? (crowd cheers) (rock music) Oh, she clapped? - I know, I clapped. - Oh, really? - [Crew Member] Let's go! - We are now in the top 20. Only 19 people stand between (electronic music) Attention, everybody. I have an announcement. We just dropped our brand new documentary. While I'm telling the viewers about it, if one of you make a basketball shot I'll give you 10 grand. Our brand new documentary on CuriosityStream. (contestants cheer) Did someone make it? I need to do this quick. CuriosityStream is the for science shows, space basically anything educational CuriosityStream has it. Somehow while being jam-packed full of educational information, the shows are also All right. And stop shooting, stop shooting. And like I said, it which I'll tell you how to Of course, David freaking won the $10,000. This guy's always winning money. - Thank you. - And congratulations, Corey. - Thank you. - At least this time you - Yeah. (electronic music) - We're a little over a and so far 30 people have gone out. I wanna get to the top So I'm gonna bring out the big guns. Bring her on. As you can see, we have How many of you would like to walk away with this brand new Mustang? - It's a Camaro. - It's a Camaro. I don't know cars. Chris, can you drive it - [Chris] Yeah, I'll go ahead. - And I think you guys can Whoever touches the (running sound effect) (contestants cheer) - [Mr. Beast] Oh! (crowd voices overlap) - Oh, we got another one. (rock music) - I wonder where the car is. - Oh my gosh. (screaming) - Congrats on the new car. - [Chandler] Yeah, that's a (car crashes) Oh. - Good thing we got other cars, right? And now that those 4 contestants are out, 16 of you remain. (contestants cheer) Since these contestants survived this far, I decided to reward them with some steak. And I didn't realize how with only one hand. - It's so hard to eat. - You got caught in 4k. Here's the typical $1,000 prize. Give it to random children if you want. - I will do that. - Jimmy took a nap but before he did he gave us a bunch of money. - So we put it in a cannon. (cannon fires) That hurt my knee. 3, 2, 1. The strategy is when they they're gonna take their hand off the car. - [Mr. Beast] And, it didn't work. And then they all went to sleep. Morning, everybody. It's hard to wake you all up, but two of you literally just got out. We will start off with - You just regained consciousness, and couldn't figure out - Our next person in question is asleep. Oh, she did it again. We don't have to show the footage now. - Woo! - We are one person off 10 people left, which is exactly when this (contestants cheer) - Final 10, baby. And then it's gonna get crazy. - We're about to do something crazy. - I have been waiting for - Tomorrow's gonna be a So I'm gonna allow you to for the night so you can get some sleep. - I don't know if this is good or bad. - Oh yeah, I can relax Oh God. Okay. Maybe not, I lied. - I didn't interact with so they could fall asleep and Let's just say that at keeping their hand on the Lamborghini while they're asleep. Let's go break the news to 'em. All right, everybody. As you can tell by the red Fidias, how many people - One? - I hate to break the news to you but half of you are literally out. - Oh my God. - [Mr. Beast] Everyone, at the projector. Up first is our boy Danny, both your hands are clearly off. - [Danny] I was asleep, - Our next victim is David. It appears your luck ran out. An itchy nose just cost Up next, we have a Double Whammy. So, we'll start off with our boy Neil. You can clearly see there's just no contact whatsoever, Neil. It's okay. Just another (Akira cheers) - Akira, if you look up here But your brother over here Scratched your head. - Are you kidding me? - [Mr. Beast] And then Now that you've actually experienced it, do you understand how he - Yeah, definitely. This far in, it's a different realm. - 1 final person has gotten out. All right, pause it. (contestants cheer) (contestant screams) I'm afraid she's gonna kill me. At least your boyfriend's still in. - Win this car for us! - Everybody follow me in the prize room. As a reward for making it to the top 10, grab whatever you want. You want that one, you want one? Take another iPhone. We'll make sure you guys Here, take an iPad. - I know there's a car out there, but I'm low-key happy right now. You know what I mean? - [Mr. Beast] Oh my God. This is why you've lost two Lamborghinis. And after all of that, 6 of you remain. One of you is literally brand new Lamborghini. This is what the Lamborghini and this is what it looks like now. And now it's time for the big surprise. The Lamborghini is now being raised. - Higher. - And now the Lamborghini off the ground, and I can raise it all Do not forget that a and only one of you is getting it. - It's not on the line, its in the air. - This whole thing for me has - You gotta eliminate the as much as possible. - I want to get as much rest as possible because I have a funny feeling this will get more difficult. - Me and Nolan have pretended to be asleep in this Lamborghini for like an hour. (car honks) Should I open up the trunk? Oh my God, he got out, he got out, he got out. - What did you wanna tell us? - When you pulled this latch up, I think my hand came up. - We know it came up. Here's the footage. As a prize for making this far, we're gonna give you $10,000 in cash. - I actually meant to - Are you kidding me? - And now that only 5 people remain, Chandler, raise the Lamborghini! You can raise it as high as you want but that's probably a good spot. You can stop. I'm, I was about to run This is where things get fun because every time someone gets out we're gonna raise the Lambo. (intense music) Akira, what's going on buddy? - [Akira] Jimmy, I'm at my breaking point. - Think about it. Think about the million dollar challenge 100 people last leave circle. - [Akira] Jimmy, I'm not cut out for this. I promise you though, put me in the next challenge. I will train every day. - If that's the case, and guarantee you a spot - Put it there, Jimmy. - Oh, let's go! - Let's go! - You just won $10,000 in cash. - My right arm can't take it. - Enough of this $10,000. You need to go train We now have 4 players left. Chandler, raise it. I give you permission to That's probably high enough. Chandler, if you go higher Carl's not gonna be able to get out. - I don't think I can anymore anyway. - We trapped Carl. If you haven't already, hit the subscribe button below the video, because this took a lot of time to put up. I could make them do laps stand on one leg and all sorts of things to make this really hard. But instead I'm just gonna leave them be and see who actually wants it the most. No messing around, whoever has the most determination is winning that Lamborghini. Between me and you, who are you the most afraid of? - Myself failing. - Wow, what a deep answer. How about you, good sir. How long have you lasted? - I have a tattoo, your name. - Since when did you get - You are my idol. I don't want to disappoint you. - Disappointing me is irrelevant. A Lamborghini's on the line. (intense music) It's been 10 hours since someone got out, let's make it harder. We're gonna switch from a Which finger are you choosing? The pointer finger. Okay. Which finger are you choosing? - Going to the pointer as well. - Okay, pointer finger. Oh, keep that bad boy on. - Oh, this is hard, boy. - All that matters is that pointer finger. They pick pointer fingers. She picked her pinky. We have a Lamborghini on the line. These are big decisions. Pointer finger, okay. Three people chose their pointer finger and she chose her pinky. As of now, you all know the rules, things got more interesting. - I'm 100% sure now that Because I've been awake for 50 hours. - [Mr. Beast] Standing for this wear the contestants down. And soon enough, they What are you proposing, sir? - How about a flat 20, - You drive a hard bargain. I love it. 20 grand and a MacBook, Oh my gosh! As you requested, here's $20,000 in cash and a brand new MacBook. Congratulations in coming in 4th place. You said you had a proposal. Let me hear it. - 25,000 would cover a my phone and my roommate's - Replacing your phones and I don't have a problem with that. Let's shake on it. Oh my gosh. Oh, and her hand's very sweaty. All their hands are sweaty. Thank you for coming out. I hope you had fun. - 50 people comes down to - Oh my gosh! I'm just kidding. - This is crazy. - You're saying this is crazy? Wait for me to raise the Lamborghini. - No! No! - Good luck, Fidias. - Yeah, I, whoa. - What? That wasn't much. - Enough. - Are you on your tippy toes? - Yes! Please. - Okay. All right, fine. I'll chill. Okay. - Gentlemen, one of you is walking away with this Lamborghini above your head. And one of you isn't. Good luck. - I'm coming for Fidias. No matter what, even if - [Fidias] I love you, brother. - Love you too. - Your arm is fully extended. Your finger has to be hurting. - Oh, really? - Yeah. - Oh, really? - It doesn't feel great. Hurting so bad. - Your finger's shaking this whole challenge. 2nd place does give 40 grand, but 40 grand's better than nothing. Oh, well. Seriously think about this. - It hurts so bad. - How about Fidias is just like. - He's in no pain, and I'm dying. - Just take it off! - No! - Oh my goodness. It's only you. (Noah screams) - Oh my gosh! I didn't know if you were joking or not. - I just won! - Here is $40,000 in cash, and Fidias! Are you crying for real? And while he's driving I wanna remind you about which is available only And you can sign up for using the link in the It comes a Nebula for free which is basically a all the biggest educational So all you have to do is and sign up. Oh gosh, for It's only $15 a year. There's no reason not to. Go watch my documentary and let me know what you think. - Link in the description! - Drive! Focus on driving!