- Hey, smart people, Joe here. No, over here. You just got fooled by camouflage. You might think your but what I actually just of how your brain has been programmed by millions of years of evolution. That's something we when it comes to nature's Camouflage isn't just about it's about what happens in here. Today, we're gonna look at a whole bunch of cool find out how they really work, and ask if nature's disguises how we and other animals (playful music) When you think of camouflage, (cat screeching) you probably think of blending But camouflage actually, Sometimes it's about looking Sometimes it's about Sometimes it's about looking confusing. And yes, sometimes it's about but although camouflage they're all part of the between predators that want to eat and prey that don't want to be eaten. In Southern Finland, tawny owls hide out in a mix of woods and farmland. These birds come in both gray and brown, but until recently, the were mostly gray, which made them hard to pick out against the snowy background. But in recent decades, Finland's winter's been getting milder. There's less snow falling, and the woods now stay Now, the light-colored owls stick out against the darker landscape. Their prey can see them easier, So over time, the lighter and the brown ones are taking over. This is natural selection at and it's a perfect example of how one animal's camo shaped by what another animal sees. Turns out studying what is to understand animal because camouflage, it Okay, here's the thing about brains. They love taking shortcuts. With so much sensory information they have to pick and choose For instance, visual creatures like us, we're wired to recognize edges as we scan our environment Edges are usually abrupt and they signal to our brain Our brains are also sensitive which lets us pick out 3D shapes So, unless we are actively focused on finding something hidden, our brain takes shortcuts like these and ignores whatever details This frees up lots of but it also makes us because if an animal can somehow hide its edges or its shadows, And as far as scientists can A form of camouflage called crypsis. If you look closely, you'll notice that all of these animals have For one, they've got right next to each other, making it look like there are and their actual edges because of the way their colors match parts of the background. This is a trick called and it's amazingly effective at taking advantage of These forms of camo also take advantage of our brain's tendency For example, whatever different elements of our visual field like color or shape, we tend to unconsciously and just assume they're related. Same thing with elements that We also tend to connect the even if parts of the image are missing, take another look at a Our brain naturally connects the danger noodle's light patches with these light color leaves around them, and it's dark patches with the shadows. And just like that, the edges disappear and the distinctive nope rope shape is practically invisible. That snake might as well because it's basically constructed a perfect real life lab experiment to teach us what our mental shortcuts are. So, that's the form of camouflage that most people are used to, but animals don't even need to pull off a vanishing act. Check out this bird in the woods or these ibexes in the desert. They've evolved a completely for avoiding neural detection algorithms. You'll notice that animals that typically have the sun they often have lighter undersides to even out the shadow Since visual systems are wired to zero in on areas with high contrast, this counter shading pattern Meanwhile, animals like sloths which like to hang upside down, they have the opposite shading pattern with lighter backs and darker bellies. So, quick recap. Disruptive patterns or a lack of shadows make natural edges harder to see and help disguise animals' form so that they don't jump out as 3D objects. But here's the most when we see these incredible examples of camouflage in nature, Most camouflage evolve that may see the world in very which means that animals can give us clues about or prey perceive the world. For instance, an orange tiger trying to hide in green vegetation might seem like an evolutionary oopsie, but the animals that tigers prey on, like deer, only have two types of color sensitive cells in their eyes compared to our three. Makes it hard for them between red and green. This hunting camouflage is of these specific color-sensing So, while your awesome human vision might be able to pick me out, this is what it looks like to them, or at least as close as we can simulate it with our measly technology. So, unfortunately for the deer, tigers are perfectly Crypsis isn't the only way for animals to escape detection though. As we've seen, camouflage and the real winning move It's doing whatever you have to, to no longer register For instance, this Viceroy butterfly doesn't exactly blend in but it doesn't need to, because it evolved to look Luckily for the Viceroy, to avoid Monarchs and This kind of trick making you're something you're and it's one of the most widespread forms of camouflage in nature. While some animals like to deceive their predators, other mimics use it to deceive their prey. This ghost mantis cosplays as a dead leaf and the orchid mantis disguises Excellent strategies for These disguises are so it can be difficult to without the help of some Take a look at this Kallima butterfly. Its ancestors didn't pop out of the cocoon looking exactly like a leaf. It got this way slowly after It might be hard to believe, but let me show you how a simple process of natural selection can make this happen. Let's imagine that these are tasty bugs with different color patterns, and this shredded paper is a bunch of vegetation in the forest. Now, the red bugs totally stand out, but these just happen to look more like the vegetation around them. Now, imagine some hungry looking for a quick snack. And in no time, most of Now, sure, some of the but since there's a lot more of them left to pass on their genes, they become more common in the population. In future generations, based on that basic color, but they will randomly vary in other ways. With whoever's hiding and having more offspring, all it takes is one variation repeated gazillions of times and you can end up with to an actual leaf that But many forms of camo When it comes to mimicry, even you can easily learn to But once predators learn many of them will just that even remotely resembles And this is what makes as a window into another species' mind. As natural selection shapes the design that emerges tells us something about the mind of who it's hiding from, including how it learns of all the visual information around it. For humans, that's we have to learn by using But when it comes to other animals, we can learn plenty just Whether it's a snake or a mantis disguised as a flower blossom, every successful camouflage artist is just trying to eat or not get eaten. What they don't know is some hidden secrets about Stay curious. Hey, before you go, we wanted to share that &quot;Weathered&quot; is We just launched &quot;Weathered on the PBS app and on PBS In it, Maya May and her to tell the definitive story about our changing weather and climate and how a better future is within reach. And by the way, the PBS to watch &quot;Weathered Earth's Extremes&quot; along with a ton of Think of the PBS app as It's one of the best from Nova, Frontline, and more, as well as episodes from friends like &quot;Eons&quot;, &quot;Crash Course&quot;, &quot;Monstrum&quot;, and our show too. This episode wasn't just made possible by this awesome costume and a few hundred million it was made possible by the people who support this show directly, including these fine If you'd like to find out more about how you can support this show, help us explore more great Click the link down in the description, and I'll see you in the next video. You won't see me though. (leaves rustling) No, over here. You just got fooled by camouflage. You could be a cactus.