I told you that I was going to speak on the Why did God allow evil in the world? You could frame the question a number of ways. If the Creator God is so good, why is there In fact, the reality of evil in the world who reject the God of the Bible. They're eager to ask those questions in a holy and allow His creation to be dominated How can God be perfectly righteous and ordain There are a number of ways that this particular One is a syllogism, a series of logical steps God is all-knowing, the biblical God is all therefore the biblical God does not exist. That is to say that whoever allows this evil be all powerful or all knowing and still allow In the minds of many, this backs Christians There are many who see this as putting us, on our own ten-yard line. And our only option is to punt. And there are many Christians who would agree 29:29, &quot;The secret things belong to the Lord,&quot; as far as they can. Is that the best we can do when pressed against 29:29? Isn't there anything better than that in the Isn't there some kind of long pass we can us to escape from defeat, but guarantee victory? I believe there is. I believe that Scripture gives us an answer we can understand that answer, and we can It is not enough to simply say the secret we don't know, God doesn't tell us. God did not tell Adam and Eve why He let that And He didn't tell them why He gave that snake Nor did God tell Job why He unleashed calamity, his life. And when Job tried to get an answer out of So isn't that the best approach, to just say us? That would be the best answer if Scripture If that was honestly the case and we said fine. But we do have a scriptural answer, that's But we do have a scriptural answer. And this opens up to our thinking a whole the name of theodicy...theodicy...t-h-e-o-d-i-c-y, It comes from two Greek words, theos meaning that mean righteousness or righteous, or just, A theodicy is an explanation of how God can It is a defense of God's righteousness in And so I want to give you what I believe is why God who is holy, who is loving, who is evil to dominate His creation? So I'm going to put together my own little Number one, evil exists...evil exists. This is without serious argument. It is incontrovertible unless you are a Christian It was Mary Baker Eddy Patterson Glover Frye...she what is called Christian Science. The teaching of Christian Science is this, All sickness is an illusion. And even death is an illusion.&quot; Christian Science is actually like Grape Nuts. If you've ever had Grape Nuts, I don't know and they're not nuts. And Christian Science is neither Christian But it sounds impressive. The answer is not to play some ridiculous exist that clearly does exist. Evil exists. It exists apparently, manifestly, massively, And there are a number of categories in which Let me give you a few. There is natural evil. That is impersonal, external, physical, temporal the kinds of things that come from the physical to tidal waves, from viruses to volcanoes. The whole natural world is blighted by bad that injure you, things that kill you. And humans since the Fall have lived at the All you have to do is go back to the book the Flood which basically is a massive natural by God Himself which drowns the entire human There is natural evil beyond the Flood even when we don't hear of someone somewhere or of people somewhere dying in some kind of illness sweeping through the lives of people. Natural evil. Secondly, there's moral evil. Moral evil is personal as opposed to natural It is internal, it is spiritual. It is wickedness, sin, transgression, iniquity, It is a bent, it is a disposition. It is an attitude, it is a course of thinking, race so that Scripture says, &quot;No one is good, Scripture says, &quot;All the thoughts of the human Scripture says that it is out of the heart that sin comes death. The Bible tells us that society is dominated And it is not a disaster that kills us. A disaster may kill us, but if we miss all still die because the waves of sin is death. The corruption comes to every human being. It impacts every life, every relationship. All of humanity is made up of sinners, no And all the immoral sinners collide with each and rivalries and associations and nations. The collision of wicked, selfish, immoral another. Then thirdly there is supernatural evil...supernatural This is the evil that is basically perpetrated Satan, the number of the angels that fell 12 to be a third of the angels, leaving two are fallen. Satan is one of those and the whole world, one. These vile beings are as old as creation. They are unmitigatedly wicked. There is nothing in them that is good at all. There are ten thousand times ten thousand They ply their wickedness on an angelic level It will get worse in the future when God casts of Tribulation. Satan who leads them is for this time given He has a temporary and delegated sovereignty are not wrestling against flesh and blood the rulers of the darkness and authorities There is a massive, spiritual struggle going They have the power to seduce and deceive and against Scripture and to draw them deeper iniquity. And then there is another category of evil, In a word, hell...hell. People who go to hell, the majority of the evil. The worm will not die. The fire will not be quenched. The remorse will not end. The judgment will not cease. The punishment will not be mitigated. Recently one of the popular pastors in America said, &quot;Hell, as far as he's concerned, is buzzer to lose the game. And so you spend forever feeling bad about That is not a biblical view of hell. It is punishment. It is unrestrained and unmitigated evil and Yes there is evil. And there is not marginal evil and there is evil. And I guess you could say that evil has a creation. It effects everything. It effects the natural creation, the supernatural So we start with the obvious. We admit it. We don't deny it. Anybody who denies it is an absolute fool. Evil is massive, evil is out of control, evil all the time manifest in every one. Now let's move to the next factor in our reasoning. First, evil exists. Second, God exists. God exists. And only one God exists and He is the God living God, the God of the Bible. And He is exactly the God that Scripture says He is as the Revelation of Scripture describes He is all-powerful, He is all-knowing, He Yes He is holy. Yes He is loving. Yes He is omnipotent, that is all-powerful He controls absolutely everything. The Bible tells us that God exists and that Nothing occurs that He does not ordain. Everything is designed by, ordained by, and That is the biblical testimony. Let me remind you of it. First Chronicles 29:11 and 12. &quot;Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power For all that is in the heaven and in the earth Thine is the Kingdom, O Lord. Thou art exalted as head above all. Thou reignest over all and in Thine hand is great to give strength unto all.&quot; Psalm 115:3, &quot;Our God is in the heavens, He Daniel 4:35, &quot;He does according to His will of the earth and none can stay His hand or Scripture repeatedly affirms the sovereignly God's sovereignty is absolute, irresistible When we say that God is sovereign, we simply everything because He, in fact, is in charge That is why 1 Timothy 6:15 says, &quot;He is the He is the only sovereign, the only monarch.&quot; In Revelation 4:11 we read, &quot;You are worthy, for You have created all things and for Your &quot;All things&quot; is the operative phrase. Everything fits into God's pleasure. Everything is to please God. Proverbs 16:4, &quot;The Lord has made all things evil.&quot; Even the wicked for the day of evil. Listen to Deuteronomy 32:39. &quot;See now that I, I am He...says God...and to death and give life. I have wounded. It is I who heal and there is no one who can Or Exodus 4:11, &quot;The Lord said to Moses, 'Who Or who makes him mute, or deaf, or seeing, Is it not I the Lord?'&quot; Or Psalm 105:16, &quot;He called for a famine upon Or 2 Kings 17:25, &quot;They did not fear the Lord, some of them.&quot; Scripture is very clear that God is behind what we would classify as evil things, or God created out of His own free choice, uninfluenced, that is. And in 2 Samuel 10:12 it says, &quot;The Lord does The Lord does what seems to Him good. Listen to Psalm 33:9 to 11. &quot;He spoke and it was done. He commanded and it stood fast. The Lord brings the counsel of the heathen of no effect. The counsel of the Lord stands forever, the Or Psalm 103:19, &quot;The Lord has prepared His His Kingdom rules over all.&quot; Or Isaiah 14:27, &quot;The Lord of host has purposed His hand is stretched out, who shall turn Or Isaiah 46:9 and 10, &quot;Remember the former else, I am God. There is none like Me, declaring the end from that are not yet done, saying My counsel shall First Samuel 2:6 to 8, &quot;The Lord kills and He brings down to the grave, and brings up. He makes poor and makes rich. He brings low and lifts up.&quot; Or Amos 3:6, &quot;If there is a calamity in the God controls absolutely everything. There is no evil outside His plan. There is no evil outside His purpose. He knows everything that can be known, that He has comprehensive power to do everything That is what the Bible says about God. And in that perfect knowledge, and in that and expressing His perfect love, God ordains That leads us to a third conclusion. Evil exists, God exists, and this is the only exist. God wills evil to exist. It is inescapable. Turn in your Bible for a moment to Isaiah tonight to work our way through this. But in Isaiah 45 it is important to draw your Isaiah 45:5. &quot;I am the Lord, there is no other. Besides Me there is no God. I will gird you though you have not known setting of the sun that there is no one besides I am the Lord, there is no other.&quot; That's fairly well established in those two &quot;I am the One forming light and creating darkness, I am the Lord who does all these.&quot; Go down to verse 9. &quot;Woe to the one who quarrels with His maker. An earthenware vessel among the vessels of Will the clay say to the potter, 'What are Or the things you are making say, 'He has Woe to him who says to a father, 'What are Or to a woman, 'To what are you giving birth?' No pot can tell the potter what to do. No born child can tell his parents to give Nor can you question what God does.&quot; And God clearly has ordained evil. Now at this point panic strikes the heart Big difference. Panic strikes the heart of Arminians. They become short of breath here. They start to have heart palpitations, sweaty rapid heart rate. What? God has ordained evil? They don't deny God's power, they would affirm They don't deny His knowledge, they would They don't even deny that God should be glorified But the panic attack hits them because they If you want to drive Arminian theology, or opposite of Calvinism, that kind of theology regeneration is fully a work of God, that he's responsible for his own life, he makes his own, and he believes on his own and he by pulling himself up by his own bootstrap, that whole system, and that is we can't make I really think that Arminian theology, for the hook. And how do they do it? Well the bottom line is, God is not responsible That really doesn't help because why did God for evil knowing what they would do? Just backs the responsibility back to Him. The popular way nowadays that people in that for evil in the world is to say that either coming, or He doesn't have the power to deal One of the two. Either He in His creation made everything existence, and so it caught Him off guard. Or He knew but He didn't have the power to Or He purposely limited His power to stop Now those are the kinds of things you have Either God didn't know, didn't have the power, something even more important than evil, something These kinds of criticisms are supposed to But what they do is reinvent God. You reinvent a God who is not all-knowing. You reinvent a God who is not all-powerful. That's the only way out and that's why that But let's follow along with let's call the knowledge, that He doesn't have the information what's going to happen. This would fit into the system called process Process theology is a group that have reinvented He is not the God today that He was yesterday happened today. And He's finding it out as it happens. This is also what Openness Theism believes, He used to be, He's better now, the process He will be a week from now because there will unfolds. And with the unfolding of history came the because God just didn't know. God couldn't know because He couldn't know approach. God can't be responsible for evil. Evil exists and therefore God couldn't have In fact, they'll go so far as to say He hoped Humm...so much for positive thinking even He's not omniscient so when evil showed up, cross. Well you get the picture. These are people who lack a true and biblical They also lack a God-focused, God-exalting, They look at things from a man-centered perch violate any of their rules. It can't be true that God has both a full it and still let it come into existence because If He had the full knowledge of it and the then He ordained it. That's more than an Arminian can swallow. Either He didn't have the knowledge, or He God. There are people actually who aren't even folks. We hinted at them earlier. You say, &quot;Where did evil come from?&quot; And they'll say, &quot;Oh it came from Adam and Really? How did it get introduced to Adam and Eve? &quot;Well, oh yeah, that's right, it came from Well how did the...how did the snake get to and how did Satan get to be Satan in which &quot;Oh well, he came from...oh, he came from So where did evil originate? Evil originated where? In heaven? Yes, evil originated in heaven in an angelic You think that was a shock? Then you don't have a God who is absolutely You think God couldn't stop it once it got Couldn't put an end to it right on the spot? Then you have a God who is not all powerful. No matter how you deal with it, if you sustain ultimately responsible for the existence of You remember Rabbi Kushner(?) in the book A lot of things wrong with that book. The thing that's wrong with the title is there But let's grant him his title, When Bad Things What he does is reinvent God. He reinvents God. God doesn't have the knowledge and God doesn't So let's not hold Him responsible for what One writer, Ledonitz(?), looked at this problem that He could make, He couldn't do any better.&quot; Really. Zoroastrianism, Manichaeism other sort of with two co-eternal and independent realities is always existing. Well none of these answers is adequate. All these answers come from people who lack have to abandon a biblical view of God. But many of the people who offer these kind and the God of the Bible, but they expect human court, a court of human reason to be Wow. Somehow God is a higher being, but we have We're going to acknowledge that God is the to our understanding of justice. Now when you boil all this down, there are can be created. Let me just give them to you. This is a little seminary class, folks, hang The first category is metaphysical...metaphysical. That is to say evil is inevitable. It is a corollary of good. It is necessary. It's Yin Yang. It's a necessary opposite of one thing that the opposite can exist as well. It is not that God created evil. It is not that God ordained evil. It is that evil is because good is. It is simply a negation. It is simply a privation. It is the absence of the opposite of. If you have an infinity, you have a finitude. If you have a good, you have an evil. There's some truth in that to some limited There is also the more theological approach that because God created humanity good, the and man exercising his will chose the evil. So it didn't really come from God, it came It didn't really come from God, it came from That was strongly the argument of Augustine And there is truth in that. There is the holiness of God and there is But it leaves too much to metaphysical inevitability exists and evil then must exist, is that perpetually And when we get to heaven and the new heaven and perfect good, will we always be staring it's a metaphysical necessity? There's a second kind of theodicy. Let's drop the metaphysical approach to theodicy or theodicies. A number of people come into this category This is the category that suggests the cause And again we're back to our Arminian friends. This is the abuse of free will. And this basically says the highest good to Free will trumps everything on God's scale, God could have prevented evil, but He wanted will to exist, therefore evil exists because evil. And because free will was more important as Evil exists because God exalts free will. Free will trumps evil on God's value scale of evil in order to preserve the more highly Again, the bottom line is you can't make God good in the creation is free will...angels have a free will, they make choices, that's to God even if it means sin and evil exist. Humans must have the self determined freedom If God acts as a primary cause for people's If God decided they would be coerced and compelled have a completely free will. That's the highest good. This gets God off the hook again, at least But again, it requires reinventing a God...listen This is inventing a God who values everybody's read about in the Scripture. And anyway, if God knew people would choose them anyway? And why did He design free will? He could decide what the noblest of all virtues end up like this and you're going to have of these myriad free wills? So you can see that an autonomous theodicy of God as He is revealed to be in the Old Does He not know what people are going to Or is giving them the freedom to do it more If God has both knowledge and power, then with and He knew exactly what they would do and therefore in the end He had to ordain It doesn't solve any problem except to diminish To design a God with limited knowledge, to a God who is more concerned about the will is to design a God that is not the biblical If God is not in total control of evil, if does not have it under complete control at is out of control at the most crucial point. If God is not in control of this completely, and the power to get it under control? And I would ask you this. Would you rather have a God trying to get of it? Take your choice. But the God of the Bible is complete control It is really heresy to say that the world plan and purpose by God that is far above So what do we know up to now? Evil exists. God exists. God wills evil to exist. He did not create it. He could not create it. But He did not prevent it. He ordained it. He willed it. Here it comes, listen carefully...because for it...a purpose. This is critical. He had a purpose for evil. What is that purpose that God had for evil? Before I answer that question and that's the the Westminster Confession from the seventeen scholars put this together, listen carefully. &quot;God from all eternity did by the most wise unchangeably ordain whatsoever comes to pass. Yet so as thereby neither is God the author of the creatures, nor is the liberty or contingency proceeds not only from the creature...proceeds being most holy and righteous neither can But then...says the Westminster Confession...all brings to pass is all to the praise of His And they got it right. The reason for God ordaining evil is for the Let me ask you a simple question to help you Is God more glorious because of sin existing Pretty easy question to answer, isn't it? That really is the ultimate question. Throughout all the eons of eternity will God sin existed, or less? And, friends, that's really all that matters So it's fourth down and we're on the ten-yard and we're going for six for the victory. Turn to Romans 3 and I want you to track with Can't take time to develop all of this, but Wish I could build context, we don't have But let's look at chapter 3 verse 5. Opening statement, &quot;But if our unrighteousness shall we say?&quot; Grab that phrase. Our right...unrighteousness demonstrates the And Paul uses the first of a series of verbs, &quot;demonstrates&quot; in the New American Standard. It is a verb that means to disclose, to reveal, Our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness Another way to say that would be, &quot;Would you if you didn't understand unrighteousness?&quot; Isn't there something to be gained by the Paul has been showing that God is faithful unbelief cannot alter God's covenant, cannot God is righteous. God will do what He said for Israel and even righteousness, but rather gives Him opportunity Even Israel's departure from the truth does shows. So in a particular case with regard to Israel, all the more glorious. And in general, unrighteousness only makes And so God by allowing unrighteousness is Turn to chapter 5 verse 8. Here comes that word &quot;demonstrates&quot; again. &quot;But God demonstrates His own love toward died for us.&quot; Would we understand righteousness without Would we understand love without sin? Would we understand the love of God in Christ and undeserving and wretched we are? Would we understand the significance of the us? Not at all. The cross is the greatest display of the love of God against the backdrop of sin. Our being sinners, our being enemies allows So, Paul says God demonstrates His righteousness God demonstrates His love in a context of Turn to chapter 9...chapter 9. Here again translators of the NAS have helped this time the verb is endeiknumi , it's a thing. What if...verse 22, Romans 9, &quot;What if God and to make His power known endured with much and He did so in order that He might make again, phaneroo ...the riches of His glory for glory.&quot; Now follow this. Again we see God allowing sin to put on a What if, although willing, please, willing &quot;What if God determining to demonstrate, to His power known endured with much patience Listen to this. God allowed evil to put His righteousness God allowed evil to put His love on display. And God allowed evil to put His wrath on display. That's verse 22, to demonstrate His wrath. And by doing that, He put His holiness on Would we know God the way we know God without Of course not. We wouldn't know that He is as righteous as He is. God allowed sin so that He could display His His holy anger over sin, His judgment on sinners...no of love and no display of holiness. God endured sin. I love the way it's phrased, &quot;He endured with destruction.&quot; It was a thing that God had to endure. His holy nature had to endure it. He endured it patiently so that in the end power. But not just His wrath. Verse 23, &quot;And He did so in order that He demonstrate as well, &quot;The riches of His glory To display His mercy. God also willed to make known, gnorizo , to...to had prepared beforehand for glory, that's No sin, no mercy...no grace, no forgiveness. No salvation. But it is God's nature to manifest His righteousness to display and manifest His wrath, and to Listen, the whole reason God ordained evil forever and ever holy angels and redeemed of all His attributes. Prior to sin God was not worshiped fully for unrighteousness. He was not worshiped nor could be fully for love that loves enemy, rebel sinners. He was not worshiped fully for His holiness And He was not worshiped for His grace until elect. In every case there is this great disclosure Why? To display His glory. Paul gives us a demonstration of this. Go back to verse 17, an illustration and he &quot;For the Scripture says to Pharaoh...here's I raised you up.&quot; Wow, God raised up Pharaoh? God was in charge of Pharaoh being born, growing of Egypt? And then being the ruler over the exiled children for them and then all the plagues, and then and the drowning of Pharaoh and his entire You mean God raised him up? Yes, &quot;For this purpose I raised you up,&quot; and &quot;To demonstrate My power in you.&quot; And it was the power of judgment and it was lamb, the blood on the doorposts, that is is it not? I raised you up to display My wrath and to Why, God? End of verse 17, &quot;That My name might be proclaimed In the end, God does everything for His own the whole earth by His people and He will heaven and the new earth. The greatest good, dear ones, is God's glory. The greatest good is God's glory. And if you don't understand that, then you So how do we respond to that? Go back to verse 15...or, 14. Are you struggling with that? Are you saying it doesn't seem fair? Verse 14, &quot;What shall we say? There's no injustice with God, is there?&quot; No, no, no, no. We can't accuse God of being unrighteous. He has a right to do what He wants. I'll have mercy on whom I have mercy. I'll have compassion on whom I have compassion. It doesn't depend on the man who wills or Verse 18, &quot;So then He has mercy on whom He He hardens whom He desires. You will to me...you will say to me then, For who resists His will?&quot; Are you going to argue with God. Are you going to debate the point that God And he reaches right back to what we read the potter have a right over the clay to make use and another for common use?&quot; Are you forgetting who's in charge? &quot;And He did it all,&quot; verse 23, &quot;that He might There's no other explanation. It reminds me of Job, doesn't it you? Job has all that trouble that God allowed Satan comes down, kills everybody in his family Told him to curse God and die. Takes away everything he owns. Gives him all kinds of illnesses. And then he gives him a bunch of stupid friends We're only valuable as long as they sat in opened their mouth, all wisdom left. He's all alone. He's trying to sort out what's going on. And he wants an answer from God. It doesn't seem right. Doesn't seem fair. And God finally speaks to him in Job 38, &quot;The 38, &quot;'Who is this that darkens counsel by What an introduction. Do I hear somebody down there mumbling? &quot;Gird up your loins like a man and I'll ask 'Where were you when I laid the foundation That is to say, &quot;If I needed advice from you, I created everything without you. Tell Me if you have understanding. Who said it was measurements since you know? Who stretched the line on it? Where were its bases sunk? Who laid the cornerstone when the morning shouted for joy? Who enclosed the sea with doors and bursting a cloud its garment, thick darkness its swaddling The language is just rich. Verse 12, &quot;Have you ever in your life commanded Have you ever caused the dawn to know its Have you ever entered into the springs of of the deep? Have the gates of death been revealed to you? Have you seen the gates of deep darkness? Have you understood the expanse of the earth? Tell Me, if you know so much.&quot; Wow, this is what I call tough talk. &quot;So, Job, where's the place to the dwelling Where is the source of light? Where does light come from? And by the way, in verse 25, who has a cleft thunderbolt to bring rain on the land without Can you bind...in verse 31...the chain of And lead forth a constellation in its season Can you run all the bodies moving in orbit Can you command the clouds...in verse 34...and Oh, let me get a little simpler, verse 1 of goats give birth? Can you count the months they fulfill, or And who set a wild donkey free, and who loosed I mean, it's just amazing, this is just tough You have no right to question Me. Chapter 40 verse 1, &quot;The Lord said to Job, In verse 4, &quot;Okay, Job says to the Lord, 'I'm I lay my hand on my mouth.'&quot; He's done. Tough talk is I do what I do because I'm God. I do what I do for My glory. And Job got it. Chapter 42, and you have to...you have to the Lord, said, 'I know You can do all things.'&quot; I affirm that You're the God that Scripture can be thwarted. Who is this who hides counsel without knowledge? Therefore I have declared that which I do which I didn't know. This is the right response, I don't even know Hear now and I'll speak, I'll ask you and And then I love this. &quot;I have heard of Thee by the hearing of the and I repent in dust and ashes.&quot; Tough talk and Job buckles and says &quot;God, and You have every right to put Your glory And evil makes that happen. We will spend forever and ever in the presence be possible had He not allowed and ordained of it the evil that temporarily dominates And in His perfect timing, it will all be in a holocaust described by Peter as the elements of a new heaven and a new earth in which only forever worship with an understanding of the Father, we thank You for the insight that You've told us why. It's not left to mystery. I'm God, I do what I do for My own glory. And how wonderful is it that You have chosen will give You glory and who will sing praise We thank You for the power in the truth. Help us to help others, to answer the deep that You've given us. We are in awe, O God, that You have chosen who will understand forever the glory that What a privilege. We thank You in Christ's name. Amen.