Today, I'm going to take you through step about making this beautiful, walnut cutting Hey everyone, my name is Tim and welcome back The channel focused on bringing YOU beginner Now before we get started with today's build, boards. The first thing that you're going to want cutting board. In my case, I'm going to be using this, uh, Some other options are maple, cherry, basically grain pattern. And also, you've got to decide what type of Are you going to make a face grain cutting Is it going to be an edge grain or end grain? And I can quickly explain the differences A face grain cutting board is when the face Some of the pros are that the face is typically look nice. And, these can be fairly easy to make if you're width. On the other hand, the face will definitely edge or end grain board would. Also, there's not a lot of give so it can An edge grain cutting board is when the edge This is what we'll be making today. Some advantages of an edge grain cutting board to warp. Also, unlike face grain boards, you can control Some cons are that they will still show knife as well. Lastly, an end grain cutting board is when align it so the end of the board is facing End grain boards are the best for your knife marks compared to an edge or face grain board. Some of the cons, they take a while to make they can split or crack if not glued properly. So to start, we're going to take this piece the miter saw. I'll probably go somewhere between 15 and But once we have those pieces, we're going my jointer jig at the table saw, rip them them through the planer. So let's just start off by doing that. Now that I have one edge on each one of these edge and reference it against the fence on into strips. So the width of each one of these strips is cutting board when its completed. I'm going for an inch and 3/4 knowing that and that will remove some of the thickness So let's go ahead and take some of these boards pieces. So I was really hoping that all of these boards them together and be done with it, but as in here and I want to take care of those now. Because if I just force it together with glue to be issue down the road, it might come apart, do that. We're going to take out the jointer, run them planer and then they should be all set for Alright, so the planer and the jointer worked. These boards are nice and flat. For the glue, I'm going to be using Titebond I've never had any issues with this so that's And then for clamping you just want to make all the way through and just enough glue that top and the bottom. I'm going to put two clamps on the bottom, You don't want to over tighten it, you just to get that glue squeeze out or else you might on. We don't want that. So, let's go ahead and glue this baby up! Well it's a little bit later in the day and before I unclamp this and put it through the down here and take a look and see what it So. See you tomorrow! Alright so, this thing is looking pretty sweet There are a few things that we need to do thing over to the table saw and cleaning up After that, we're going to bring it over to And once that is done, we'll add a chamfer of the sharp edges. Alright now we're on to sanding - I'm going up to 220 grit. When I'm done with that I'm going to spray those little... grain fiber, little wood fiber That way it's gonna get super smooth and you time you go and wash this thing. So that part is super important, spray it I almost forgot... I need a... you know. So it's been about 45 minutes and this thing over night and then tomorrow we can come back finish. Alright it's time to put some finish on this I'm going to be using mineral oil. This little bottle is made by Howard - I'll tools that I used in this video down in the It says to season a new board to do at least You put a coat on, you wait 20 minutes, you And I like to just finish things off by using It's got mineral oil plus some waxes, I'll Also, if you're making this as a gift for pick up a bottle of this as well. Typically wood cutting boards will kinda dry happening, you just put a coat of this on Also, if you found this video helpful and gotta do is hit that thumbs up button, subscribe my latest beginner woodworking videos. Now let's go ahead and put the finish on and to life!