Shiqiaozi Morning Market is the largest and busiest morning market in Jinzhou, Liaoning Province. It is also the city's most simple business card to attract tourists. The most direct and original authentic flavor and customs in the morning market are increasingly pursued for individuality and experience. Popular among young people who travel in style. They observe and experience other people's lives at the morning market where fireworks gather all over the city, and enjoy the slow pace of life with every meal. Let us go deep into the morning market with them and experience the true joy of life! Hello, sister, are you making gluten cakes? Hanging oven cake! Oh, let's make hanging oven cakes! WeChat Pay 3 Yuan WeChat Pay 3 Yuan You rolled it out so thin that it feels translucent. Wechat payment is 2 yuan. Thank you for your patronage. If you come next time, you are welcome. If you don't pay too much, the fried food will not taste like that! The texture is crispy when rolled out thinly and fried. right! Diaolu cake is a traditional pastry. By rolling the dough into very thin layers and then twisting it in layers, the baked Diaolu cake has distinct layers and a fragrant aroma. It tastes crispy on the outside, soft and tender on the inside, and has a delicious salty aroma. . Burritos, oven pancakes, gluten pancakes! This cake will be baked in a moment, right? Well, two or three minutes of &quot;Harbin sesame pancakes, sauce-flavored pancakes, gluten pancakes, and steamed buns.&quot; Do you want two chicken sauce steamed buns and a pork and cabbage steamed bun? Well, yes! I have already scanned the QR code and paid. Come on! Burrito, burrito, burrito! How much do buns cost? This drawer of radish and vermicelli stuffing costs one yuan each, the vegetarian stuffed buns are all one yuan, and the meat ones are all 1.5 yuan. Is there anything else besides radish filling for vegetarian buns? Leek and egg, watermelon and egg, vegetarian cabbage. Give me 5 of these. 5 big radish buns, right? right! A total of 5 yuan! Have to make buns early in the morning? We get up to work after 12 o'clock in the middle of the night, right? ! White and black are almost reversed! After a while, everything was fine after the market ended, so I went home to sleep around 9 o'clock. Close the stall and go back to sleep. Yes, there is no work in the afternoon, it is all morning work. Meaty...pork and celery buns, okay? Is there any pork and cabbage? The stuffed cabbage is no longer available. there is none left? Here are two pork and celery buns. These buns cost 7 yuan in total. 7 yuan, right? Um! Your sesame seed cake is 3.5 yuan. Come on, what do you want to eat? &quot;Wraps with gluten cakes start from 5 yuan, and braised pork rolls with gluten cakes start from 7 yuan.&quot; Hello sister! Are you busy this morning? busy! A soft and chewy tendon roll with six kinds of vegetables only costs 5 yuan. If you like meat, add some braised pork, tenderloin, tripe, chicken tenders... the total cost is only 7 or 8 yuan. This price is roughly equivalent to feeding you vegetables and meat and giving you a piece of cake for free. Are you making your tripe burrito normally? Don't be a fan of tripe! Not letting fans go? right! Is this mixed vegetable okay? Mixed vegetables are okay! Then, what about onions, cilantro, and peppers? Those are all fine, they are placed normally. OK! Is the other a tenderloin burrito? Is it the braised pork burrito or the tenderloin burrito? Anyway, I scanned the QR code and paid a total of 19 yuan for the tenderloin! How to make tenderloin burritos? Do not put coriander in the tenderloin, but put it in the others normally. No coriander, right? right! OK! Brush the glutinous rice cakes with flour sauce, add braised tofu skin, stir-fried vegetables, pickles, onions and braised pork tenderloin in sauce. Is the uncle here? Uncle, wait a moment, wait a moment, there are so many people today! &quot;Specialty shredded chicken burrito for 7 yuan, signature braised pork burrito for 8 yuan, and secret tenderloin burrito for 9 yuan&quot; OK! Not spicy! A total of 16 yuan! It doesn't want to be spicy, right? right! I have to make him one that's not spicy, right? Um! Let's see what burritos we eat? Brother! What do you want to eat? It's time to make braised pork burritos! I want one with braised pork and one with chicken steak. Okay, the total is 15 yuan, scan the QR code to pay! This morning market is so crowded that the stir-fry dishes are too busy. There are no stale wraps or vegetables. They are all new, so don't worry. Is the porridge sold out so early? Hmm, &quot;black rice porridge, millet porridge, preserved egg porridge, sweet potato porridge, big steamed rice porridge&quot; . How about a bowl of steamed rice porridge? Um! Big ballast porridge is made from corn ballast and red kidney beans, both of which are whole grains. How much? 3 yuan. The porridge is almost gone? Come get one soon, right? Yes, one serving is enough. I almost bought the last piece of Dazai porridge. Um. &quot;Morning market pies: meat pie is 2 yuan/piece, vegetable pie is 1.5 yuan/piece.&quot; One radish pie and one meat pie. I want one radish and one meat! Hello boss! Record it, record it, record whatever you want! Well, one is a carrot and one is a meat! Okay, I'll scan the QR code for you to pay! There are 4 more meat ones. Are these pies different sizes? The small ones are for meat and the big ones are for vegetables. There are two more meat ones, who wants them? I want two leeks. What kind of pie do you have now? Sauerkraut, radish and meat. How much does a leek pie cost? You have to wait a moment for leeks, they cost 1.5 yuan each. There is no meat in the sauerkraut pie, and the meat pie is meat with onions. Is there cabbage pie? The cabbage pie hasn't been wrapped yet. The only ones available are carrot pies, sauerkraut pies and meat pies. What fillings do you want? Give me two chive pies. The leeks will have to wait a moment. How many do you want? 4. OK! Are you wearing goggles because you are afraid of oil splashing into your eyes? yes! It can also prevent some oil fumes! The boss is making meat pies. How many pies do you want? There are sauerkraut, radish and meat. There is sauerkraut in the pot. When will the leeks be ready? The leeks are also in the pot in about 3 minutes. I ate one with meat and one with chives. They were salty, oily, and tasted good, but the size was a bit like a trial size. Hello boss! You all come and give me free publicity! Are they all here to give you free publicity? Yes, people often come to promote me. Are the videos you recorded in high definition? Yes, it's HD. Beef Fire Spoon is Tieling's version of patisserie. Although its appearance is not amazing, once you bite into the crispy crust, a rich wheat aroma mixed with a mellow and salty beef flavor will rush into your mouth. , people are amazed by its deliciousness, and the more they eat, the more they love it. I have always had a question, this little jade-like &quot;snack&quot; actually goes well with Cantonese-style morning tea, but why was it invented by a rough and heroic Tieling man? WeChat payment is NT$3. Thank you for your patronage! Welcome next time! How long does it take to make a pot? Uh, six or seven minutes, maybe, if it's too fast, it'll be over, and you won't be able to sell much in a day! Just play here! Are these 20 fire spoons? Yes, that's 20. Load me 4 fire ladles! Wait a minute, you have to queue up for a while and wait for the next pot! Thank you for your patronage! Welcome next time! How much does one cost? The fire spoon said it cost one yuan a piece! Give me three! OK! Wait a mininute! Two pockets! Two pockets! Help me pack two bags! Okay, are the two fire spoons gone again? ! Yes~ This is almost done. Yes~ Hello boss, let me take a photo. Hey, how much does one cost? 1.5 yuan each, old-fashioned fried cake! It's a big piece of glutinous rice noodles with red bean filling. These are all freshly made in the morning. right! This is serious old-fashioned fried cake. The 5 yuan fried cake received on WeChat is almost cooked when it floats, right? Yes, it will be cooked when it is blanched, and it will be more colorful if it is fried a little harder, which will also make it more delicious. The taste is a little crisper. right! The red bean stuffing is steamed, and the glutinous rice noodles will be cooked after being put in the pot for a while . The longer they are fried, the more delicious they will be. Yes yes. WeChat payment is 5 yuan. WeChat payment is 3 yuan. Although sweets are good and quite fattening, I only eat one to satisfy my craving. &quot;Sugar-free corn cake&quot; is this a big four-faced cake? Three-way noodles (cornmeal, wheat flour, soybean flour). Are the pancakes warm? Hot. Give me 3 yuan. Hello boss, are these fried dumplings open? So our buns are different from others! This is our specialty! Um. How much does one cost? 5 cents. Pour in vegetable oil and flour water to create a beautiful puff pastry on the bottom of the buns. How to sell fried buns? 5 cents each! Do you still have this pan-fried bun? have! I want 5 yuan. How to sell fried buns? It 's 5 cents each. Is there a WeChat payment code for as many as I want to eat and buy ? Yes, it's over here! Who wants to eat fried buns? Just came out of the pot! How many do you want? I want this, I want this, I want this, I want this, whatever I want, it's all the same! 3 yuan! A 3 yuan one! Two pieces, two pieces! How much is it? Mine is also 3 yuan, yours is 3 yuan , these two yuan, two yuan, four! Okay, no problem, two yuan! 3 yuan, give me 3 yuan. 3 yuan! The &quot;Yiyuan Meat Clamp&quot; is stuffed with smoked chicken or pork. It may feel dry when you eat it for the first time. Relatively speaking, the pork one is more oily and is more suitable for novices to try. If you haven't tried it before, buy 2 first to see if you like it, and don't buy more! Sister, you stamped more stamps this morning than a big company stamps in a year! Right? I have finished all the official seals in my life, but I can no longer be an official in the future! We are professionally stamped! Professionally stamped! You have to build thousands of them in one morning, right? right! I want 9 meat clips! Give me two of the same. You can go to English class later! You have to review and review! What are you talking about? I'll go to English class later! Class starts at 9:30, so you are ready! Your Uncle Yang will send you there! You go out and buy what you want to eat in advance, and no one will buy it for you! You want 6 for WeChat payment of 2 yuan, right? Yes, take it away! Is tofu curd salty or sweet? You can add sugar to make it sweet, but it is usually salty. Want chili? normal! One tofu noodle and one soy milk are 5 yuan. Then get... Do you want some tofu puffs? Another bowl of soy milk. Two fried dough sticks cost 5 yuan. One soy milk and one soy milk. This is his. I will serve you the soy milk. The total is 10 yuan. Give him another glass of soy milk. This little girl also asked for one. &quot;Handmade Cantonese rice rolls: 6~10 yuan per portion&quot; Hello boss! Hello~ Let's have some egg and ham rice rolls! Why! Is chili spicy? The chili is not spicy. Use less. Is our marinade sweet and sour or salty? Salty. What flavor do you want? Eggs and ham are ready! Walk slowly! Can you eat both chopped green onions and lettuce? Eat them all. You should use chopped pepper! Yes, this is chopped pepper. Brother, I forgot to pay you! I was in a hurry just now and forgot to pay you. It's okay~ I didn't think about it until after I finished eating! She didn't scan the code, and I didn't scan the code either! &quot;Old Beijing Chicken Roll: Chicken Steak + Vegetables + Burrito = 8 Yuan&quot; What is this fried? Chicken steak. This fried chicken cutlet is wrapped in the burrito. Don't pay until the 10 yuan is received on Alipay. Wait for the 10 yuan payment on WeChat . The price of the burrito with chicken steak, grilled sausage and fried eggs is 10 yuan. Come on, next one! WeChat payment is 8 yuan. WeChat payment is 8 yuan. Have you been busy like this all morning? Well, basically just keep busy like this. How many rolls are needed? Anyway, they keep rolling and rolling... They are all freshly fried and rolled burritos. Look how fast the big brother is, he can roll one in just a few dozen seconds. He's used to it. He has been doing this every day for more than ten years to collect 9 yuan on WeChat , and he has become proficient at it. This is journeyman. Yes. I don't eat lettuce, I don't want lettuce! The breakfast sellers at this morning market are all old merchants. The people queuing up here are basically old customers, and those who don't queue up are newcomers who come to this morning market for the first time. Next one! &quot;Authentic from Henan, Unique from Central Plains, Egg Filled Cake&quot; Thank you, sister! Hey, goodbye! Hello boss, may I take a photo? OK! I want two pieces of meat and a grilled sausage for 6 yuan on WeChat , and egg-filled pancakes for 9 yuan. Do you want hot sauce when you pay 6 yuan via WeChat ? normal! It will be crispier after baking this way, right? Yes, there isn't that much oil. You want a 6 yuan one? Want it spicy? Do you want hot sauce? Come less! How long do you have to wait? Now there are baked egg-filled pancakes. I want it fresh from the pan and warm. Yes, there are also hot ones! I want the egg-filled pancake with two pieces of meat (8 yuan)! I was frying and frying the pancakes at the same time, and I didn't even want them to cool down. What to eat? One pie and two meats! Hot sauce? want! What to eat? Let me get one for 7 yuan. The WeChat payment was 7 yuan, &quot;Yan Ji fried jujubes, fried tenderloin, croquettes.&quot; I wanted fried jujubes for 5 yuan. Fried jujubes are something we only eat in Jinzhou during the Chinese New Year. Nowadays, they are convenient. They are also available on weekdays. You can buy them if you want to eat them. In the past, it could only be eaten during the Chinese New Year? Yes, I used to only eat this stuff during the Chinese New Year. Usually you eat fried meatballs or something like that. Yes, fried meatballs, fried mackerel, and fried hairtail. right! Every place has its own customs. Like before, we in Jinzhou even fried apples! Fried apples? ! right! Nowadays, I don't see any fried ones that haven't been renovated. I want to renovate them. I want to renovate fried apples and fried bananas. Are they also wrapped in batter and fried like fried jujubes? right! Yantai and Dalian in Shandong Province have similar habits. They both like to eat sweeter things, so they can get used to fried jujubes. Yes, the taste in Shandong is similar to that in Northeast China. Yes, almost. Is this thing only available in Jinzhou? Yes, only Jinzhou has it. This morning market is ours's authentic one, while others' ones are all imitations. Their jujubes are fried whole. The whole jujube is fried as is the restaurant's method. Should we cut it into pieces and fry it? Yes, cut it open, it's like pickling something, and the inside is fried and delicious. Deep fried. Right! Jujubes like this can be fried inside once you cut them open. The whole fried jujube is fried directly as soon as it is wrapped in the ramen batter, and the inside is not fried. Yes, fried like that actually tastes like jujube. &quot;Old lady's secret grilled skewers and small burritos&quot; Now there are only two skewers of beef skewers. If there are not enough, can I replace them with mutton skewers? They are both priced the same. It's two skewers of beef and four skewers of lamb. Are there any chicken legs left? There are chicken legs. Then you also want chicken drumsticks, right? Yes, hello boss, hello eldest sister! Add shredded potatoes to the kebabs and roll them into small pancakes. Yes, a box of 6 burritos. Then add chilli, coriander and sauerkraut. &quot;Shredded potatoes fried in soybean oil, salty to taste&quot; Is this mine? Yes, this is yours. Just sit there and wait for a while. Are the cakes sold out? Yes, no more cake. Now I'm just not sure how much cake is left. Do you want to eat pickled radish? eat! This is a small sour radish, right? Yes, this is just like our Northeastern sauerkraut, pickled in a big vat. It's used to relieve the greasiness, because the shredded potato skewers are too fragrant, so if you put some sour food in it, it won't be so greasy. It's the same as eating dumplings dipped in vinegar. Yes, yes, yes. It's too late, it's sold out... no more. Can you get a portion of it? Not enough for 6. One, two, three... there are 5 pieces of cake left. Hello! Camellia oleifera? Yes, Camellia oleifera! It's so delicate, it's been screened 18 times! Our oil tea is all freshly made and fried in big pots. We don't sell overnight oil tea! Weigh me a bag. Okay, but you have to wait a while. How much are these? These two bags total 18 yuan. This small bag is 5 yuan. Make me a drink to try. The white oil tea costs 10 yuan for me. Okay. This box of oil tea is fried with corn flour and this one is fried with white flour. How much does it cost to fry oil tea with cornmeal? 9 yuan per pound (500 grams). What about this? This is 7 yuan per catty, white flour fried in soybean oil is 7 yuan per catty. Make us a drink! Okay. Wait a minute. The cornmeal is made from low-sugar whole grains. It's so fragrant and made at home. It's made with corn. Make me a drink. OK! How much does it cost per pound? 7 yuan 9 yuan. Give me the delicious cornmeal for 10 yuan. No problem. Do you want pure cornmeal? That 's right