Today I came to the flea market in Republique. My husband will come later. Actually, this is the first time that the flea market will be held in the square above the Republique metro station,This is the first time. (As far as I know.) It is very strange that it has never been held in such a nice place before. I am very much looking forward to seeing what kind of flea market it will be. I leave home very late, it's already 2:30 p.m. From the first stall, I have a feeling that this flea market is going to be very promising. I have to make sure I see what I want to see before my husband arrives for etching old prints. Oh, here are etching old prints. Let's leave this one to my husband. I must look at something else. I see there are ceramic canisters. It's all in place. It's an interesting design. There was a big gorgeous mirror. Terrible condition with most of the wood edge decoration gone. Is this an Agreste series? I have never seen this pattern before. Luneville. not Sarreguemines. And what I found in this stall, it is a sauce container of the Gien Pont aux Choux series I'm looking for. How nice to find this at this late time! &quot;30EUR&quot; "30!? 20EUR? &quot; I got Gien for 20EUR. There may be some interesting stuff here. Two beautiful glass and metal containers. I wonder what these are for. The curves are very beautiful. A set of silver cutlery. This is a little too simple. For some reason, I enjoy flea markets in the square, not in the street. I wonder why. I continue toward the center of the square. Oh, is this the back side of the shelf? This is a long coat with rabbit fur inside. No stains, good color. I wasn't sure whether to buy it or not, This is the front side of the shelf. You can see the statue of Marianne in the center of the square. Lots of good looking vintage clothing here too. From the center of the square, back again on another passage. There is a good mix of clean vintage clothing stands and stalls selling antique and vintage items in good proportions, which is very enjoyable. Trying on clothes while taking a selfie. Here I found a Rabbit fur jacket. This is only 10EUR. I wonder if I should buy it even though it's only 10EUR, I wonder and wonder.. And what is the result? Then, here is where I found the next one. A stall with all kinds of nice plates. I bought a pitcher from this series at Dieppe. It is still beautiful! The others, all of them, are all to my liking. This is the first time I have seen this. How beautiful! Apparently this was made in England. I will definitely have to visit a flea market in England once. I found a cute Barbotine dish. Is this an artichoke? The next plate is that Barbotine! This is the plate I want now. I am planning to buy several flat plates at once if possible. But the rest were all deep dishes. Too bad. This is a shelf with a small door. This is a nice looking shelf. Just where I got the one I wanted, Joined by my husband who already bought 2 etching old prints. He took a video of me in front of the Metro entrance with both of his purchases in my hands. From here we went to the flea market together, but his interest is still in etching old prints. But while he was looking for etching old prints, I was sure to keep a close eye on the other stuff too. This is a canister for medicines, used in old pharmacies, I believe. This little mirror like the sun. I thought it was nice, but its price was 60EUR. It was too expensive for me. Here he is contemplating in what order to walk through the stalls. Unlike the street, it's not a straight line. My husband is always looking for etching old prints and I wondered if he ever gets tired of them, but I'm the same way, as I'm only looking for plates. He is like that, but he doesn't only look for etching old prints, sometimes he also looks for paintings! Big Donald Duck. Colorful soupiere with pomegranate as handle. Something looks good here too. Everything lined up here was wonderful, but, Unfortunately I didn't find anything in particular that I wanted. Here he is, wondering if he should buy one of handful of different etching old prints, Even if the shopkeeper talks to him, but he doesn't move from there. Next is this painting. I am looking at these old picture books. It's cute. etching old prints. etching old prints. etching old prints and old newspapers. And etching old prints again. Here is the end of the whole process. Here we decided to go to the cafe in this square. It's a glass wall, so it's bright and you can have a cup of tea while looking at the square. Do you want a glass of wine? What do you want for wine? rose? Um,,,,white. An old newspaper he bought. This is actually,, Hips! This is an old caricature. What about this king? His belly is a barrel. Who is this king being made fun of? He folds the margins of the print so he can tuck it into his notebook and take it home. I've seen a lot of them. The flea market today, I came for the first time to this flea market which is held here. It stands on the square above the Republique metro station. As far as I know, this is probably the first time that a flea market has taken place in this square. It was very easy to see and walk around and I enjoyed it. We actually didn't plan to come here today, but we came here on short notice because we wanted to see the flea market here. I'm glad we came. It was a lot of fun. My husband, who is on a diet, toasts with water and I toast with wine. The stall you see over there is the first stall I saw. From my seat in this cafe, I could see the procession of children crossing the square right in front of me. I wanted to sit in this cafe forever. And this cafe is right on top of a metro station, It would be good for a drink after work or to meet up. It's already getting dark outside. we started heading to the metro station to go home, However, actually it was a long time after that! Most of the stalls are ready to go home. Republique is indeed close to the Marais. There were really many fashionable people! My husband finally saw something other than etching old prints here, though, It's already too late. And that's for women. So we headed for the metro station entrance... Marianne's back is so dignified against the beautiful evening sky. This is the entrance to the metro. There was a large number of books at this entrance. Someone must have left them unsold at the flea market today. My husband started looking at those books, and again, he didn't move from it. I couldn't wait any longer and went to Utopie, a delicious bakery nearby. I went and came back and he was still alone and buried in his books. The sun has already set and it is already night. Still not yet, he did not move from there. Various people stop and pass by, He is still alone at the end, absorbed in his book. Although he spends as much time here as he did at the flea market, He still hasn't moved from there! We finally came to the metro station platform. It was so long! I hope he takes me out to dinner afterwards. (lol) Of course, we went straight home. A few days later, There was one cafe I could not get my husband to go with me. I came with Aiko to the cafe I wanted to come to. I saw on Instagram that the plates of food here were very pretty. BETTERAVE, Halloumi, oh, look, Halloumi, remember? Yes, I remember Halloumi. That cheese. I'm addicted to it. That's interesting, isn't it? breakfast waffles. Bacon waffles, fried chicken waffles. Okay, dessert then? There it is! Waffles with seasonal fruit and fresh cream. Yup. This looks delicious. It look delicious,isn't it? This is filter coffee. This is a pretty cup. Amazing! Voila! Aren't these plates adorable? It's so darn cute! Looks delicious! Bon appetit! Waffles with a handmade feel. This is a rich dough waffles. A waffle with a satisfying feel. The volume was quite large and very satisfying. Hello! I am Pone. This time, I went to the vide-grenier, which was held in the square above the metro station in Republique. The vide-grenier held at this location was, I was not planning to go to the flea market that day. But I thought, "This is an interesting place they are doing this," and I went there in a hurry. I didn't plan on it, but I went out, I accidentally went over there with the glasses I wear usually at home. I am very sorry for that. But I am so glad that we went there. That flea market was different from the usual flea market with stalls lining the street, It is held on the square, so people are free to browse and walk around. There are no streets for cars to pass by, I was able to walk around slowly and see as many places as I wanted, in a festive atmosphere. And antique and vintage things and vintage clothing, The ratio was very good, and I enjoyed both of those things. Everywhere you go, you can find something with good taste, There, I would love to see you continue to hold this event on a regular basis. Maybe it's because Republique is close to the Marais? I think there were many very fashionable people. So I bought this Rabbit jacket there, which I am wearing now. And this video I took, In some parts, I was not able to get video of the part where I walked with my husband. That is, Because there were so many people and I had to walk through the crowd like this. There was no room to hold the camera. Next time, if it is held here again, I would like to go a little earlier in the day and take videos of the area when there are not so many people there. As soon as I got there, I found this at the second stall, This Gien Pont aux Choux series sauce container. This is the source container of the Pont aux Choux series of Gien. A little bit, a little bit, This series seems to be getting set. The relief of this grain of rice is very beautiful. Beautiful and practical, this Gien Pont aux Choux is going to have a lot of use in the coming Christmas season The back looks like this. And here is the second source container I found. This is, ST amand et hamage &quot;Regence.&quot; Sorry if I mispronounced the series name. I found a jug from this series in Dieppe this summer. Here it is. The sauce container and pitcher are now in place. And here is the Rabbit jacket I got for only 10EUR. What do you think? Does this suit me? This will be a great opportunity to wear this in the coming season. I bought this because the material is rabbit and I thought it would look good with casual jeans. I met my husband on the way. From there, The main focus was to find his favorite etching old prints. but at the same time, I went to the stall near there and, of course, I was looking to see if I could find anything. So, here they are, along with the items my husband bought this time. These two etching old prints in the frame, This was a 10EUR for two. This was quite a bargain for a print. After the cafe, when we were about to leave, there was a pile of books we found. There, my husband started looking for the books and stopped moving from there. So in the meantime, I went to the bakery and looked at other things. The amount of time he was there was about the same amount of time he was looking at the flea market. So it was a very fun flea market for him and for me. I recommend this flea market above the Republique metro station. I hope you all will come to the next time it is held here. This is a print of a Boucher painting by Beauvarlet. Boucher was Marie Antoinette's favorite painter. I don't particularly like Boucher, But it wasn't very expensive either, It's colored, and it was interesting. Because this is a print about hunting and I'm interested in that. Fast forward here because it's a long story. (laughter) Probably from the 18th century. End of 17th or 18th century. This is a caricature of some French journal, though I'm not sure which journal. It's from the British war. Probably during a battle called the Boer War. The Boer War is the battle in South Africa. This is King Edward VII of England. It is a caricature of the King of England Edward VII, probably by an anarchist newspaper. I don't know which journal. It represents someone who has a lot of wine, is lazy, and then leads his people to war. These are etching old prints. This is a Rembrandt. These etching old prints are reproductions, not originals. But, you see, Not an old, old print, but it's not expensive and it's interesting. I hope you enjoy the next video as well!