There is a psychological trait that all successful It's been cosigned by Bill Gates and NASA Systems Engineers. This concept is called the growth mindset, People with the growth mindset believe that developed through effort. Basically, they believe that anyone can nurture The inverse of the growth mindset is the fixed People with this mindset believe that intelligence we're born with. We're either born gifted or not; there is Basically, they believe intelligence is fixed In this essay, we'll explore why the growth it. So, we talked a little about what the growth skill, in any field, can be developed. But, let's also talk about what it's not. It's not magic. It won't help you get everything that you next Elon Musk or Steve Jobs. However, it is a very powerful lens with which of your success. All of us are a mixture of both the growth In some areas of our lives, we operate with In others, we operate with the fixed mindset. Because of this, I want you to think of both Some people wear the growth glasses more often However, we all wear both in different situations Although, we should all strive to wear the ones. But, why? Well, a lot of research seems to suggest that than people with the fixed mindset. For example, a study found that "Students who held a growth mindset were 20% on the test, while students with a fixed in the bottom 20%." Another study found that when 7th graders they were able to avoid a drop in grades which People with the growth mindset are much more and difficult situations. Because they prioritize learning over failure, They prioritize growing over stagnation. On the other hand, people with the fixed mindset they believe talent and intelligence are fixed. They look at failure as an assault on who To them, lack of knowledge is an indicator always. A person with the growth mindset believes transformation; so, they don't attach their Instead, they focus on the process of growing Few people will deny that the growth mindset We know that the brain can continue to learn of neuroscience. It also seems quite intuitive that people to end up being successful. So, the growth mindset seems to be a much mindset. People with the growth mindset are living with the fixed mindset. They can make truer decisions where as a person state of delusion. What do I mean by this? Imagine two entrepreneurs: one has the growth They are both in the early stages of their Suddenly, they both encounter a roadblock The one with the fixed mindset see's the to the roadblock. The journey is in the way of what matters She believes that entrepreneurship should She decides to quit. The one with the growth mindset see's the smiles. The journey is the way for her; the journey Taking the role of a student, she accepts She will allow it to mold her into the person she desires. She decides to persist. When we look at both of these examples, most the growth mindset has a greater understanding Her decision is truer. We know that things take time, effort, and to put that kind of thinking in to practice. So, how can we develop the growth mindset? The first key to developing a growth mindset it exists and that it's possible for the Neuroscience has shown that our brains are We can always grow and learn new skills. For example, a study found that taxicab drivers to help them navigate more effectively in They also found that the amount of grey matter of years that they had been working as a taxi This suggests that the act of driving a taxi them to be more effective at their job. The second key is to focus on process over Dweck has said that we should praise others than praising them for their results. For example, it's better to say, "you studied very effectively for that test rather than, "you're so smart, you got an A!" In the former example, we're focusing in is something that they can control. Hopefully, they'll learn to associate themselves However, in the latter example we praised out of their control. Unfortunately, this student will likely begin I think it's really important to emphasize on to others. It's not as simple as telling someone that need to put in the effort. They need to internalize that they can change So, they need to know how to effectively create that process. My solution to this is to keep a journal. Pick an activity that you want to get really For example, let's say that I want to get In the journal, I would write down my process I would list out the steps and put a quantifiable For example, my process might look like this: * do 10 practice problems a day, * and meet with my professor for 30 minutes So, my process has been solidified and everything Now, I need to designate a result that I'm Let's say that I'm looking for a grade When I get my exam mark back, I compare it If it's higher, than I know my system works. But, I can still go back and alter parts of Or, I can try and optimize it. Maybe I can spend less time reading the textbook, If my grade comes back lower, I definitely I believe this method of keeping a journal, the desired outcome is achieved will help It keeps our mind focused on a changeable The results are measured and paid attention works. The process either works as intended or it The process is always malleable. It's not that it doesn't work, it just I think another good idea is to seek advice Look for those in the same position as you trying to do. Ask them about their process and see how your's You might find things that they do, or have process. Read books about people you admire. Try to find details about their process that Lastly, do challenging things. To even have a chance of fostering the growth comfort zone. People who don't leave their comfort zone to innate talent, because everything comes For example, a student who is never challenged are innately smart. "I get A's, therefore I'm smart" they The result comes so easy to them that they Unfortunately, all they see is the result When they, inevitably, get a bad grade they They lose faith in themselves because they to receiving so easily. On the other hand, going outside of your comfort to avoid shattering under the weight of adversity. You have to focus on and adjust the process, you desire with your current process. By definition, that's what it means to step So, now you know about the growth mindset, to develop it. Keep in mind that it takes a lot of effort to avoid falling into the fixed mindset. People will say certain things, or things in us. It's important to notice when this is happening I'd like to close out with this quote from ...the path to a growth mindset is a [lifelong] a proclamation.