Dr. Friedman will speak this morning on "Free (applause) There's a standard cliche which I am sure in one room you are bound to have at least (laughter) The subject I am going to talk about today, that is not true. With respect to the area question of whether it is desirable for a and other restrictions on imports and exports, with almost one voice for some two hundred Adam Smith, published his great book, The in which the Declaration of Independence was economics profession has been almost unanimous trade. Of course, complete unanimity is hardly have been some deviations from the straight have reflected not a disagreement with the that in the good world free trade would be have tended to reflect special circumstances Perhaps the most famous such deviation was of the modern economists, John Maynard Keynes, the Keynesian Revolution. In 1931 in the course had been a free trader all his life came out from free trade and of introducing tariffs. in and of itself the best policy, but because unfeasible. In his view, the right policy gold standard, end a fixed exchange rate, currency whose price would be determined in world of floating exchange rates today. But that it was not politically feasible for Britain step...are an alternative to devaluation. If, on the one hand, the price of the pound and eighty some cents, which then was the make British goods cheaper to foreigners; to Britain. And in that way, it would redress were facing. That's one way to do it and infeasible a tariff on imports and a subsidy to exports. devaluation. And so Keynes came out for that His political judgment was like that of many after he came out for a tariff on these grounds, say that this is not an isolated story. Time when they have proposed second best solutions economics, because of predictions they make they are not experts. At any rate, Keynes Britain went off the gold standard- he retracted saying, now that we have gone off the gold tariffs; I return to my free trade principles. But later, when he retracted...when he reprinted a footnote, which is a very revealing footnote by the tendency for people to preach the second-best quote, "Not all my free trade friends proved after a tariff was no longer necessary many words, it's often easier to turn people that and get them back on the right line. Now, it's often argued that the reason we disagree; that if only the experts would agree, then we would have an excellent and fine economic is a clear counter-example. Here is one case so. As I say, you have the very minor deviations except for the case of Great Britain from First World War when, for nearly a century, whatsoever on anything, except for that case had tariffs throughout the nineteenth century. Smoot-Hawley Tariff Bill, which raised tariffs for the subsequent difficulties in the United Today, we have a widespread move for protection: to say successful, to have the government so-called voluntary agreements to restrict textiles from Hong Kong and Korea, and I know We have a growing pressure for quotas on imports concern that somehow or other a weakening in terms of the mark or in terms of the Swiss in that respect, requires the government to exports. And the interesting question, and the question it that protection... interference with international almost uniform condemnation of such measures professional agreement on the one side, and so sharply from that agreement? The political reason is that the interests that press for are harmed by protection are spread and diffused. pressure. We call a tariff a protective measure. very well against one thing. It protects the it protection. Each of us tends to produce a single product. If we impose a tariff on steel, or restrict who benefit are visible and clear and available to press for restraints in that respect. The Each of us will pay a few pennies more. We If I may take a much more extreme case which of protection, but yet it does. We have a the maritime industry. That is really protection to prevent the use of foreign ships, that goods. Those measures to benefit the merchant operating subsidies and so on, involve a total That amounts to about $15,000 per year for You may be sure that they have every incentive contributions to political candidates, and with a population of two hundred million people, us. Which one of us is going to go to Washington three dollars of taxes? However, while on a superficial level, it's other restrictive measures such as the maritime because producer interest is concentrated is not really a fully satisfactory answer. same thing. Why have we had price supports special interest here, and where there are We're all of us special interests; it's Why have we had farm price supports? It's are again a measure that you will find it a small number of agricultural economists, hard to find any economist who will support in which the consumer is simply being protected the agricultural interest has been concentrated Because you have a relatively small group much at stake and therefore they are able diffused consumer interest. We often think that this is a country in which a democracy. We do elect people to congress. special kind of majority. It's a majority If you want to get elected to congress the who will say to you, "If you vote for this, Then you find another 3 percent and another consisting of a coalition of special interests. it's also true that special concentrated get their way, unless they could make a plausible the country as a whole to promote their special have gotten their way unless they had been of the public that there was a genuine national marine. The agricultural interest, the farm gotten their way unless they had been able to a large fraction of the people that there farm, or in some other aspect of agriculture. So the question in some ways- if we go below the question is: why is it that the economists of the virtues of a free trade policy? After a very, very simple argument. Let me give hundred years ago. It's as persuasive now it always is and must be in the interest of they want of those who sell it cheapest. The ridiculous to take any pains to prove it. had not the interested sophistry of merchants of mankind. Their interest is in this respect, of the people." That was the argument as is very little that needs to be added to it. The basic reason I believe why economists is the one that I have already alluded to. which was written many years ago by a great essay was "The Backward Art of Spending we are all of us so sophisticated about the tend to be so unsophisticated and backwards And his answer was the one I have already generally in only one kind of productive activity. or sixty hours a week, whatever it may be, distributing a good, as a professor--well, but we're supposed to be putting in some most of us do. On the other hand, we each perfectly understandable therefore that we to the way we get our income than to the measures But unfortunately, this backward art of spending and not only in the area of the tariff and tends to be carried out in terms of jobs as that's not our objective at all. There's any number of jobs in having people dig holes that? No. Jobs are a price; we have to work you would think that we live to work. Now are alcoholics, and some of us do live to jobs; we want productive jobs. We want jobs and services we consume at a minimum expenditure objective is to have the fewest possible jobs, the greatest amount of product. In the international trade area, the language and what's really good is an industry that import, that's bad. But surely that's we can't eat, we can't wear, we can't we send abroad are goods and services not and services we import, they provide us with can drive, with all sorts of nice things for what we import. What we export is the cost for a nation, as Adam Smith put it, is to of imports as possible for as small a volume This carries over to the terminology we use. terminology of protection. But when people is that term taken to mean? It's taken to from the point of view of our well-being that's sending out more goods and getting fewer in. know better than that. You don't regard send out more goods to get less coming in. sending out less. This tendency to concentrate on the productive of consumption is reinforced by the fact that the visible effects of tariffs are good; the on the productive side. I have already referred that if you restrict the imports of steel, who will have jobs they otherwise would not tariff is perfectly clear. But if we import They have fewer dollars to spend in this country. not have jobs, not have productive jobs because I should not have to spell this out in great state. Agricultural products are one of our imports are to reduce jobs in agriculture. have been producing goods to sell abroad don't of sight, out of mind. And as a result, on of producers you have the concentrated special But then you will say to me, what's wrong wrong with the arguments by George Meany at American workers are being unfairly competed we have to protect our American workers and of foreigners in Japan, or Korea, or somewhere than the American worker? What's wrong with does a high wage and a low wage mean? The worker is paid in dollars. How do I know how Let me go at this a little more indirectly. think most clearly by taking a very, very case of all. Let's suppose that at the existing the example which is a favorite "whipping that the Japanese can produce whatever you to television sets and automobiles more cheaply We'd rush to buy them. The Japanese sellers they do with the dollars? Nothing for them everything is cheaper in Japan. What then If they would be willing to burn them up or would be wonderful. After all, there is no pieces of paper. (laughter and applause) But of course, the Japanese are not going produce goods and send them over here in order to burn up. They want to get goods and services goods and services that are cheaper than those better convert these dollars back into yen." anybody sell them yen? Because if I have yen more cheaply, so nobody would be willing to Let's suppose, to begin with, that the rate was, as it was for a long time, 360 yen to Well then these people who had all these dollars you'll sell me some yen, I'll give you owner of the yen, "even at 300 yen to the not worth it." "Okay, I'll give you would happen. The price of the yen would be get for a dollar, the more expensive Japanese get for a yen, the cheaper American goods that the yen would rise in price until it more expensive than all Japanese goods. Because goods would become more expensive to U.S. become cheaper to Japanese in yen. And that the dollar value of the goods that the Japanese equal to the dollar value of the goods that price of the yen in terms of the dollar would Now, I've simplified the story because over the United States and Japan, of course, these The Japanese will spend some of their dollars spend their dollars in the U.S., and the dollars principle is the same. People want dollars order to have U.S. or other goods. And again, fact that in addition to the flows of goods also investments abroad. The United States the period when we were building up and getting in the world, the United States had a balance almost. Why? Because the U.S. was a country The British were producing goods and sending not those green pieces of paper but different a sum of money at a later time plus interest good investment, and they regarded it therefore to get those pieces of paper. There was nothing wrong with that. On the here that enabled us to develop more rapidly, yield on their savings than they could have that was reversed. We had what was called citizens were finding that they could get abroad than they could at home, and as a result those pieces of paper. Again, in the post-World War II world under we were making gifts abroad. We were sending belief that that was a contribution to a peaceful So the situation is more complicated, but as you have a free exchange rate, which is of the dollar in terms of the yen, there is sense in which American industry is in danger destroyed. Let me put the matter to you a little differently. is roughly twice as productive as the average situation is. On the average the American his activities a sum of money which will buy his Japanese counterpart can buy. If that's a little exaggeration, we should not afford--we in which he is less than twice as efficient. the jargon of economics, the principle of in everything than the Japanese. That doesn't We should concentrate our efforts on those Let me put it to you in a simple way. In a is a very good typist. Does that mean he should letters? He may be a better typist than his times as good a typist but five times as good off if he concentrates on doing the law and in this day and age I should say she concentrates the letters. (applause) As it happens, I have a daughter who is an general. In the light of all this analysis, let us of steel. What about the argument of steel defense? Well, you know there was a famous patriotism is the last resort of the scoundrel. they're not. They're perfectly decent like you and me they know very well that what's (laughter) And we're all sincere about that. The greatest to rationalize. (laughter) But what of the validity of that argument? it. Have complete free trade in steel, there the U.S. steel industry would disappear. The to sources of fuel, to market- would certainly steel industry. It might be that foreign imports total. But so far as our national defense satisfy them by importing steel from abroad, But second, ask a steel man whether before cost of building it. He'll look at you as course I get estimates." And I will say of building it just one way? "Oh no, we of alternative ways and then pick the best." gives the national defense argument is to to this country cost estimates of alternative I will believe that your argument is sincere Because there are many ways. If the problem the easiest thing in the world to stockpile. serious problem. Aside from stockpiling it, the way we maintain ships in mothballs, and you ever seen a cost estimate by the steel our national security one way or the other? The same thing has been true over the years that we ought to have, at one point, it was or all sorts of other things on national security a reason. What about this argument of unfair competition? dump their goods below cost? Well as a consumer, (laughter and applause) If the Japanese government is so ill-advised at below cost, TV sets and other things, why aid? (laughter) What about the problem of the price of the It is an artificial problem to which we should let it. So far as we as a nation are concerned, house in order. If we followed policies at provide the basis for sound and healthy economic exchange markets would take care of itself. of steadily rising inflation, or unsteadily well then, of course, the dollar is going worth less abroad than it otherwise would It is not a problem. I come again to the problem of farm policy which has been very intimately related to back when there was a great scandal about subsidized the Soviet Union by selling agricultural But take the problem of farm policy. I have national interest whatsoever in farm price the price of farm products- any more than the price of steel, or of any other product. agriculture is one of our major export industries. efficient, in which we can produce goods and the world. There is nothing that would be producer than for the U.S. to have complete supply of dollars abroad to produce a better I submit to you that the movement toward having movement. What will be its results? It can export markets or requiring the government a high artificial price at home, which is is going to buy American products unless somebody price. Hence, a system of artificially high a system of government subsidies for the export not in the interest of the American consumer, taxpayer, and in the longer run it is not What do we do from here? What's the answer? were in the 1820s and '30s, and get a national should we do? Many people say that what we tariff reductions. True enough, they will those foreign countries are doing. Japan has tariffs, while they restrict trade with tariffs? The Japanese by imposing tariffs and other themselves; but they hurt us, too. No doubt...they division of labor--they hurt us and themselves. hurt them and ourselves still further. It's hard for me to see any justification else. That's not a very sensible policy. for many years to engage in reciprocal tariff But on the whole, it has been a very unsuccessful I believe that we should- the right policy the right policy for us would be to act like going to determine what we do on the basis We are a great nation and we are unilaterally barrier to international trade. We're not plans on the basis of existing tariffs. Let's that's less important. But let's each eliminate every subsidy to exports by one-fifth, at which we have no tariffs and no subsidies also completely stay out of the market of behalf has been speculating in the foreign and has cost you, up until last year and not million of losses on those transactions. Money What is the chance that we shall follow these is zero... (laughter) ...and yet hope springs eternal. If we know that will improve the chances that the separate rather than away from it. Moreover I go back wrote his great book, The Wealth of Nations, that the freedom of trade should ever be restored that an Oceania or Utopia should ever be established but what is even more unconquerable, the private oppose it." He wrote that in 1776, seventy years later said was impossible and absurd had been accomplished, That move toward complete free trade ushered and glory. And ever since Britain has departed prosperity and glory. I don't mean to say it certainly is not. But it is not an unimportant In the same way, the U.S. has been a great and despite the restrictions on trade. But and benefit the world as a whole, contribute the world, by moving in the direction of free British experience, the century of free trade peace. Why? Because if you eliminate government to deal with one another. If you introduce they become matters for government to government of division. So in the name of both prosperity we could take which would contribute more you.