(wind rustling) (footsteps) (haunting music intensifies) (footsteps continue) (distant birds chirping) (haunting music continues) (footsteps slowing) - Father! (quickening footsteps) (music crescendos) - Bring her back to me. (horses galloping as music intensifies) (waves crashing) (boat creaking) (breathes deeply) - Hey, let me up. What's wrong? - Engines aren't running. (shuffling and creaking) (door creaks open) (suspenseful music builds) (shuffling) (buttons clicking) - Mayday, mayday, mayday. - (radio static) This is SS Lambridge. What's your mayday? - I'm a passenger on a tug headed to Suez. Captain has expired. - Can you read a compass? - I can. - What is your heading? - Due east, but we're drifting. - Have you nautical maps? - We do. - All right, chap. I'll talk you through finding (foreboding music intensifies) (engine stalls) (steam hisses) (engine turning) (metal crashing in water) (yelps) (grunts) (breathing quickens) (metal clanking) (water rushing) (grunts) (body thuds) (horses galloping) (car engine revs to stop) (car door opening) - You'd be Mrs. Dutton. - I would. - Don Whitfield. Seems we're neighbors. I've acquired the Strafford Ranch. - The Lazy S is the name. - That's the brand and I've no use for it. Perhaps it's useful to you? - We have a brand. - If you'd like another, it's yours. - One is plenty. Thank you. - I'd love to meet your husband. Is there a time I might pay a visit? - I'll inform him of your interest. - We could choose a time now. - I don't keep his calendar. - (scoffs) Isn't that's what ranchers' wives do? Keep the books and the calendar. - Not this wife. (sighs) - Then, perhaps I'll just The valley's changing. Progress is upon us. There are opportunities beyond cattle, which isn't much of a business these days. More of a dream, really. And not a good one. - Well, it's our dream. (whips reins) (horses galloping) (orchestral music intensifies) - You think she'll sell? What choice does she have? Let her spend a winter here without her husband to run that ranch. In the spring, she will beg me to buy. (car engine rolls) - Oh! (door shutting) - Winter can't wait to - I expected you earlier. - It's been an interesting morning. (papers shuffle) - It's about to get more interesting. Cable came this morning. (hopeful music intensifies) (papers rustling) (hopeful music crescendos) - Aunt Cara, (waves crashing) I've received your letter and I'm coming home. (cello intensifies with flute) (waves crashing) (crying) (foghorn blows) (metal clanking) - They see us. - (groans) uh. - They see us. They see us. (laughs in excitement) (gunshot) (laughing and breathing deep) (foghorn sounds) (hopeful violin music) (crying with joy) (boat motor running) - Here we are! Jesus, Mary, and Joseph. I love to take you two to a casino. All right, here we are. (sighs) Just slide down here to me. - Thank you. (sighs) - That's a shiny penny - You're lucky I don't with you still standing on the hull. - Don't forget how I flag down the ship. - Teasing ya, mate. C'mon man. Before the sea eats the rest of this tug. All right, there ya go. (music fades) (knocking) (footsteps) (knocking continues) - I'm fucking comin'. (door creaks open) - Banner Creighton. You're under arrest. - For what? - Two counts of murder and four - Who'd I murder? And who the fuck did I attempt to murder? (music starts) - Look like you've seen a ghost, Banner. And you have. - If you're arresting me, arrest him. This fucking jackal hung me by my neck, left me to die. Killed my friends, for trespassing. - And he was well within his rights. Turn around. - At least let me get fucking dressed! - County jail's got brand new suit for ya. (handcuffs click) (door creaks and shuts) - I see you brought your army, Jake. You're gonna need 'em. You hear me? You're gonna fucking need 'em. - Nice robe. - Keep smiling, pup. You cheated death twice. You won't cheat it a third time. - Sounds a lot like a (car doors shutting) (grunts) (car engine turns) (music cuts to suspenseful guitar) (sheep bellowing) (sniffs) (water splashes) - Boy! - This one's school age as well. - Well, at least he's got a vocation. Tendin' sheep is God's work. - We're looking for a girl. 'Bout 15. - Why are you looking for her? - Broke the law - What law? - We owe you no explanation, child. Have you seen a girl? - I have seen no girl. (horses reins rustling) (music intensifies) (body thuds) (screaming and thrashing) (clothing tears) (squishing sounds) (screaming in pain) (hitting) - Let me see. (winces) The girl has blinded you. - God as my witness. (gunshot) (second gunshot) (yelp and thud) (gun reloading) (music crescendos) - Wait! (gunshot) (orchestra music plays) - The further we move from danger, the more we'll see them, I fear. - We're not moving further from danger. - Eat. I demand it. - What is it? - Rice. - Don't look like rice. - It's rice rolled in flour and fried. - How do you know the food here? - I'm British. All we do is travel the world and become experts in the places we visit. - It don't make sense. - Like I said, I'm British. - So your culture's based in things that you know nothing about. - No, baby. That's the French. (laughs) - Mmm Made you smile. My holy grail. - You need loftier goals. - No, I don't. - Eat. (food crunches) - Well? - Pretty good. - Experts, I told you. (kissing sounds) - Alexandra! (music saddens) - All rise. (chairs creak) Be seated. (soft thuds) - Banner Creighton. You have been charged and four counts of attempted murder. You wish to enter a plea? - Not guilty, Your Honor. - I will set a bail - If counsel could approach, Your Honor. (footsteps) Your Honor, the prosecutor against Commissioner Dutton, hanged four men without the one of whom was the defendant himself. Our claim is self-defense. Mr. Creighton is heavily in this community and - You have proof of these allegations? - I have rope burns around and letters from deceased men's widows wondering why money is no My client, being held without bail for when no such charges exist creates a contradiction I feel confident in asking Much less, release with - What's your position? - Commissioner Dutton has a But none have ever A conviction is warranted on that alone. I ask he be held without bail, Your Honor - I have an arrest warrant of numerous witnesses, This warrant was prematurely issued. But I'll give your office the opportunity to find evidence to support the charge. Your client is released without bail. (gavel sounds) - Don't look back. Don't speak. Let's go. - You know what I'm looking at? - Don't speak. - Yeah, I know exactly - I'm looking at a ghost. You fucking coward. Tryin' to settle this in court. - I'll show you coward! - Hey! (strained breathing) - Guessing the blonde didn't make it. (punching) (gavel smacking) - No fighting in this courtroom! I will hold you all in contempt and you can fight it out in the jail cell! - You keep sending boys I guess if I was as old as you, I'd send boys too. This don't end in court. It ends in a field in front - If that's where you want to die, I'm more than happy to help you out. (woman singing) (gulps drink) - Arthur! Arthur! (slaps face) - I challenge you. (kicking sound) - Arthur, enough! This is not the place for it. You have no wits about you. - He knew of my engagement! He has defiled my honor. You are challenged, sir. Choose your weapon. - This your son? - He is. - I kill for a living. You do not want him to fight me. - No, I do not. - Then control him. (glass thuds on table) - Just- (grunts and gasps) - Arthur! - You defile my honor, and then you abandon yours? You are no gentleman, sir. You are no gentleman! Go, go, run away with your whore. Run away with your fucking whore! - Please don't. (loud punch) - Challenge accepted. - Choose your weapon. - You choose. I could care less. - To the deck! (footsteps) - Arthur. Arthur, no! - Arthur! Arthur. (orchestral music intensifies) - Well, what a lovely mess And what an embarrassment (knocking on door) - (breathless) There's a duel on the bow. - Between who? - Uh, some American and - (gulps) the Earl of Sussex. - Notify the first mate. (distant waves) - Have you experience with a sword? - Never held one. - Arthur is an expert swordsman. Spencer, His words mean nothing. There is no dishonor in refusing to fight. - If he's doing this shit on day one, How do you think he's Might as well get it over with. (kissing) (shuffling footsteps) (swords colliding) (crowd gasping) (metal clanging to ground) - Spencer - (grunting and gasping) (punching) (repeated punches and grunts) (sighs from crowd) (heavy footsteps) (metal clanging to ground) - Enough, son! - I did not yield. I did not yield to you! I did not yield you, Yankee scum. I did not yield - (yells) - Arthur! - Man overboard! (crowd gasping and crying) - Make ready the life- (foghorn and bells toll) - Arthur! - Take this man to the brig. - To duel is illegal, sir. - I didn't choose it. - Arthur pulled a pistol. They saw, they all saw. - Who will speak on his behalf? (sad music) - To the brig with you, son. (shuffling and grunting) - My husband threw down his sword. Arthur pulled a pistol on an unarmed man. - Says you? - Yes, says me. On my honor, I say it. - Honor? You dare to speak that What honor do you have? Where is the honor in your actions? Captain, I demand this woman till the ship breaches port in London. - (gasps) You say you are my friend? Prove it, now. Tell them the truth. Tell them what you saw. Please, please. - She speaks the truth. Arthur refused to yield. Even after Spencer had withdrawn. - Stop speaking, I will not hear of it! Remand to her quarter, sir. Or do you forget my title? - Take the lady to her quarters. (wind blows) (car engine rolls up) - Get up here on the porch. - You're going to let - I prefer to shoot down on him. I prefer you not to be (car doors shut) - What a structure. Inspired by the lodge - Other way around. - Is that a fact? Same builder? - Don't know. (horses galloping quickly) (music intensifies) (guns clicking) - Hey! (laughing) - YOU WILL STOP! (man chuckles) - There will be no violence here, sir. This is our home. Our home. Have you no decency whatsoever? - Well, I suppose that would depend on what you consider decent. Well, we've shown all our toys, Stewart. We can put them away, now. I trust you will offer - Lower 'em boys. (romantic orchestra music) (gasping and running) (solemn music continues) (bag thuds) - Spencer! Spencer! - Alex. Alex! - I will come to you! Where do I go? - You have to take me You have no right. You have no right! - (cries) Where do I go? - I love you, Alex! - Why did you do this to me? (slap) Why? Why? (crying) (music intensifies) (fighting and rustling) (gasping and crying) - Bozeman! I will meet you in Bozeman, Montana! I love you! - I love you, Alex! (indistinct yelling) (music crescendos and slows) (cries) - You may question the marriage, sir. But difficult to question their sincerity. (music fades)