The storm had lasted three days. It was exceptional in Florida. Waves swept the coasts, trees broke. Miami was flooded... When the wind stopped, Al Capone breathed his last. It was January 25, 1947. The information did not make the front page of the newspapers. It was printed after the baseball results. Capone's coffin was transported by train from Miami to Chicago. Only a few relatives and friends attended the funeral. The reporters were not allowed to film them. A handful of Italian earth was thrown on his coffin, as was the custom, and everyone returned to their occupations without remembering that the man who lay there had once held America in his hands. October 6, 1931 - Al Capone is tried in federal court in Chicago. The trial will last seven days. At the end of these 7 days, the jury will sentence the most famous killer in the United States to 11 years in prison... It is a hunted and lost man who presents himself that day in front of a curious crowd and the flashes hundreds of reporters. Name: Capone First name: Alphonse Profession: businessman Born January 17, 1899 in Brooklyn. "Say "I swear"!" Al Capone, however, appears on trial for a simple charge of tax evasion. $75 million in unsubstantiated income for which he pays no taxes. Money, money from alcohol, from sex, from crime... The man who brought down Capone is the famous leader of the Untouchables... His name is Ness, Eliot Ness. From the start, they violently addressed each other. Capone says he is innocent and accuses Ness of harassment... The first day of the trial ends... the second will be more difficult, Capone expects it ... Tomorrow the court will retrace the singular journey of this Italian-American - from the depths of New York to the peaks of Chicago. This evening Capone is not joining Mae, his wife. It is in an armored car that he goes to one of his gambling dens. He is a party animal who lives in a big way - and there he finds his numerous mistresses, blonde and elegant, whom he maintains with pomp... He provides advice, services and money to courtiers who all owe him something , fascinated by his power and who tremble at the idea of the imminent fall of their protector. But this evening, his heart is not in it... Capone knows that the next day, he will risk his freedom and his fortune and that this trial could take everything away from him... The next day, when the hearings resume, the white hat of Capone pushes through the crowd of journalists and curious onlookers... The accusation begins the writing of the Capone family novel... "Your parents are from Naples. They emigrated to America in 1893 and settled in New York - in the Italian colony of Brooklyn. You are the fourth child in the family" Along with the prosecutor, Capone's defenders highlight the exemplary career of Gabriele, Capone's father. He was a barber and acquired American citizenship in 1906. His 9 children discovered the streets of New York among Irish, Sicilians, Jews and other immigrants from old Europe. Little Capone is precocious, he is kicked out of school for hitting his teacher. He is only 14 years old. Gangs of kids swarm under the watchful eye of recruiting agents from the local underworld. Crime gangs share the city. Conflicts of interest are resolved with razors, the favorite weapon of the Neapolitans - or with bricks, the specialty of the Irish. Al Capone joins the "Five Pointers" gang. This is where he will become a gangster. "You're 17!" the judge told him. And before you - a life dedicated to crime" During this second day dedicated to the Capone family saga, only one name was not spoken. That of Vincenzo, Al's older brother. Nobody knows anything about him... One evening he didn't come home. He dreamed of joining Buffalo Bill, the famous cowboy who was then performing in a circus... Was it to avoid falling into violence and crime that he left? On this brother gone, Al Capone will never speak in public. But he must have been relieved not to receive any more lessons from this moralizing elder. On the third day of the trial, Capone's lawyers took the lead and went on the attack... Their client was only a scapegoat, it was prohibition that was at fault. The public is outraged... Capone explains... In 1919, virtue took hold of America, and under the influence of moralizing leagues, the country adopted the 18th amendment which prohibited the manufacture and sale of alcohol. Thanks to these new traffics, gangsters become the masters of the world. At that time, Capone was a bouncer in a dance hall on the beach of Coney Island. He married an Irish woman from an opposing clan, Mae Coughlin - and he is 23 years old. He is also a killer appreciated for his lack of scruples. With him, a contract is always executed properly. Also, when Johnny Torrio, his godfather and mentor, asked him to become his partner in Chicago, he immediately accepted. With its casinos and cabarets, its crooked police and politicians, Chicago has become the whore of America. Under the leadership of Torrio, Al Capone climbs the ranks of organized crime one by one. Jovial and elegant, he establishes himself within the local mafia, even if the scar he hides under makeup betrays the other side of his character: ruthless and bloodthirsty. It earned him a nickname that he hates and that is not uttered in his presence : Scarface. "It's 1928, you're at the top of organized crime and you rule Chicago !" >>concludes the accusation. Capone is proud of his meteoric rise. His lawyers present him as a man without mystery who only gives one version of himself. The law fascinates men just as much as crime. Good versus evil... Al Capone versus Eliot Ness. "Say: I swear!" >> On the 4th day of the trial, the leader of the Incorruptibles is finally called to the stand. Name: Eliot Ness Born April 19, 1903 in Chicago. University Studies - sniper. Married - no children Profession: Head of the "Incorruptibles " brigade. A graduate in criminology, he stagnates in a powerless and ineffective department responsible for fighting corruption in Chicago. Ness declares on the stand that Capone is mainly responsible for this evil. He designates his accomplices: the police, the judges, the politicians whom Capone pays handsomely so that they let him conduct his affairs peacefully... The games, the alcohol, and the women... A third of the proceeds from crime would be used to corrupt , not to mention the favors in kind that Capone distributes. Capone holds Chicago in his hands.... Until the day Ness invites himself to the ball. It is thanks to Ness that Capone finally stands trial: it was he who dismantled the Neapolitan brewery network and put an end to its activities. Extortion, kidnapping and racketeering. In addition to his cabarets and other speakeasies, he runs seemingly honest businesses that serve as a front for him. Capone is a businessman... who does not hesitate to eliminate his competitors... &quot;As proof,&quot; says the boss of the Incorruptibles, &quot;this bloody episode in Capone's career. The Valentine's Day rampage... &quot; The night of February 14, 1929... Capone's men set a trap for a rival gang, that of Bugsy Moran. It's an episode in the gang war to gain a monopoly on trafficking in Chicago. The one who manages to eliminate the other becomes the master of the city. While Moran's men are busy over a shipment of alcohol, Capone's killers appear disguised as police officers. They disarm their victims, line them up against a wall, and finish them off at point blank range. The only survivor confided to investigators before dying: &quot;it was an accident... &quot; Omerta reigns... Capone eliminates the evidence of his crime by executing the killers he had hired himself - with bats. baseball. Those who resist him are punished without any mercy... "He is the boss". they say about him in the newspapers. Three weeks later, Capone is designated "Public Enemy No. 1" by the newly elected President of the United States Herbert Hoover... and Ness wants to be the one to take him down. "Capone is innocent!" >> proclaim his lawyers... He is the scapegoat of a power which uses him to hide those truly responsible for the crisis: Wall Street financiers and speculators. In 1929, the New York stock exchange collapsed... Depression struck America, suffering set in... And Chicago was the city most affected... If the bloodbath of Valentine's Day moved the population, Capone n couldn't take part because he wasn't there. He was in Philadelphia where he was arrested for illegally carrying a weapon. But from his cell, he continued to manage his affairs and in order to regain public esteem , he distributed milk for children in crisis and opened soup kitchens for the unemployed and the homeless. He has become a benefactor and the press - which he pays - does not take long to make him a hero. Scandal on the benches of the court: Ness reveals the extent of corruption in state services... "In my early days, he explains, I was gullible and naive... I was indignant at the my bosses, without knowing where I was going!!!! At each search, the mafiosi were notified by snitches and the stills were immediately moved. Investigators never found anything...and without evidence, the cases never made it to court. >> This is why the federal prosecutor in Chicago, George Johnson, called on him... an agent barely 28 years old, cunning, idealistic and reckless. And to eradicate the evil from which the city suffers, Ness has a plan: since corruption protects Capone and prohibition enriches him ever more, the sources of the underground market must be dried up. Thanks to a team of cops in his image: young, honest and unattached. This simple idea pleases Johnson... he entrusts full powers to Ness. And Ness will only have to answer to him. Ness holds auditions. New men - unknown to the mafia. He wants to find the perfect collaborator: he takes no risks, eliminating the high rollers, the poker players, the girl runners. A crack team: Basile, the driver for the chases... Marty, a former wrestler for the clinches... Sam, detective... for the shadowing... Leeson, the sniper... A strategist for planning the operations, Chapman!... And Robsky, wiretapping specialist... A restricted group to avoid leaks. This team doesn't have a name yet... it will quickly get one. First act! Ness and his team immediately tackle prohibited trafficking. The speakeasies where hundreds of liters of alcohol are sold every night are at the heart of the strategy. A first kick in the anthill. To see. Its detectives monitor the city's questionable bars... and for its first operation, the group intervenes by surprise... One of the most famous clandestine bars in Chicago is taken over. The premises were searched, the customers were arrested... But Ness made a mistake... in addition to having intervened without a warrant, he did not seize any alcohol, the bottles having all been destroyed. No charges could be brought and the police released the notables he had arrested. Ness, who thought he was a vigilante, lost the first round. He learned his lesson and got back to work... To trace the source of the trafficking, he imagined following alcohol deliveries between bars and clandestine distilleries. Because when the last customers leave the bars, the empty barrels return to the brewery to be filled again... On a map, he draws a red line between the bars he spies on - to show the route that the Capone trucks will borrow. Second act: Ness keeps watch in front of one of these suspicious bars... Around two in the morning, the trucks hit the road.... Spinning is child's play and its men exult at this almost too easy promise of success. But the operation, which the reporters summoned by Ness to witness his triumph, film, is a new fiasco... It is not alcohol, but water that the men discover in the barrels. Before filling the barrels, they must be washed... He becomes the laughing stock of his detractors. He knows he won't be allowed a second mistake. On March 17, 1930, Capone was released from Philadelphia prison. He's released for good behavior. He who now holds the monopoly on alcohol trafficking does not want his business to be mistreated by a small agent and his band of wretches. And to complete the humiliation of this cop who is not even from the FBI and who intends to immediately send him back to prison, Capone turns himself in to the Chicago Police. No evidence can be held against him and he walks free... In the standoff between him and Ness, Capone scores points. And the reporters who chronicle this clash continue to support the facetious godfather who creates the spectacle. The press is the ally of the mafia which kills without qualms except, as its code of honor specifies, women, children and journalists: in Chicago, a liter of blood gives a liter of ink to the headlines... And Capone is a star who wants to control his image! The prosecution summoned Herbert Kaplan, the Chicago Tribune photographer who testified. What the hell is this photo? We can't see anything there! I asked you for a photo of Capone. What did you get? The total, I got it all! I was ready for a big shot. That's what happened. I had a cold, I reached into my pocket... Capone's man grabbed me... And said to me: "Hey you! What are you trying to do?" I answer him: "I'm trying to grab my handkerchief" So he kicks me out! That's why I couldn't get the photo. The court understands the Capone system better... He is arrogant, haughty, and he has an answer for everything. He doesn't make a good impression on the jurors... His lawyers try to give another image of him... in vain. For everyone, he embodies vice. He's rich and he's a high roller. The jurors now know everything about his lifestyle. His sumptuous HQ in a luxury hotel, his property in Florida, his Cuban cigars and his tailor-made suits in garish colors. So at the height of his glory, many films were inspired by his life: Scarface, Little Caesar... Hollywood producers knew that he had become the hero of an America which was sinking into depression and which sees in the rise of this man who came from nowhere the embodiment of his dream... But Capone's lawyers know that this image could harm their client. Capone is not a criminal as Ness tries to make him believe... They claim that he is an Italian-American who respects his family, who loves his mother, who accompanies his wife and son to mass or to church. opera... That he is a benefactor, integrity, honest and whose success earns him the jealousy of those who have not been able to seize their chances like Ness. Ness replies that Capone is a murderer... That he must end his life in a penitentiary. And that he will be - the man of legend - who will bring down the godfather. His team is redoubling its efforts. The HQ stays lit all night long. The telephone calls multiply, sometimes from snitches, sometimes from Capone's men who give false information. Ness is now waiting for the decisive moment to strike the big blow. Because if Capone still eludes him, Ness feels that his power is beginning to waver and clashes between the police and organized crime are becoming more and more regular. Ness is going to hit the mark soon. On June 13, 1930, Ness and his team, based on a wiretap, followed a delivery truck filled with barrels to the laundromat. They are not going to make the same mistake as last time and start stalking again the trucks containing the rinsed barrels... and finally discover the hideout... An imposing stock of bottles and barrels is discovered then destroyed by Ness's men... And in front of the press once again involved, they handcuff the Capone 's lieutenants . Thousands of dollars gone down the drain and a first success for Ness in the legal and media war between him and Capone. By defying Capone in this way, does Ness realize that he is putting his team in danger? This first success puts Capone beside himself! He wants Ness dead, and tells his henchmen , "Give him hell!" >> Hell is 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, violent arrests, ambushes, assassinations... But Ness puts up a resistance to the axis of evil that Chicago has never known before. Capone only knows two methods that he uses alternately: force - to terrorize Ness and his loved ones - and corruption to force them to negotiate. He offers $2,000 per week to anyone on Ness's team who agrees to cooperate with the crime syndicate. Everyone refuses... And Ness's response is equal to the insult made to his men: he calls a press conference and reveals to the journalists the price at which Capone estimated their silence... Newspapers and readers take a passion for this gang which in turn creates the show. The "Incorruptibles" are born! The authorities, a few days earlier ready to let them go, provided them - under pressure from voters - with an innovative ballistics department, intended to fight crime. Capone is far from having given up.... The counterattack is organized, Ness's operations are exposed because his HQ is in turn bugged. Ness has the long list of corrupt Chicago police officers. With this document, he can bring down his entire hierarchy... He is a man alone... alone... and in danger. The noose tightens around him. The crime syndicate hires a killer from Florida, Michael Picchi. He becomes a target... We follow him, we listen to him, we search his life, that of his family... Edna, his wife, now lives under the surveillance of two bodyguards. She is a prisoner in her own home, never knowing if - and when - her husband will come home in the evening. The couple falters! But Ness remains unfazed. His mission is worth all the sacrifices. It can bring him a new glory for which he takes a liking. The President of the United States tells him in person: he is counting on him to rid Chicago, the shame of America, of its scourge. The city nicknamed &quot;the windy city&quot; has become the capital of organized crime, a sick city eaten away by the Neapolitan evil, this canker which spreads its poisonous ramifications, which undermines the country's economy, which kills... On March 13, 1931, Frank Basile, the driver of the Incorruptibles, disappeared. What is going on ? His body was found, his skull exploded, but also mutilated, his tongue torn out. The killers set upon him. The driver has fallen into a trap... it's a last warning for Ness... He understands that his fight to the death with Capone has just begun... Frank Basile, no one really knew him but he was loved by everyone. Ness had trusted him despite his heavy criminal record. Ness fears for his wife... Edna is forced to leave her home. There are 6 bodyguards who monitor her day and night. But the abominations of the mafia only strengthen the resolve of Ness and his men. In a few weeks, traffic dried up, Chicago was on the way to becoming a " dry city". Less money in the mafia coffers means less corruption. It is on the media battlefield that Ness intends to deliver the blow to Capone. He brings together the vehicles of the mafiosi seized by his services since the start of his fight and, to erase the offense that had been done to him, Ness invites the press to his triumph... He telephones Capone to tell him to look through his window at 11 p.m.... Ness in the lead, the parade crosses Chicago and in the night, parades at reduced speed in front of Capone's HQ... Anger of the godfather and resounding victory for Ness! And if sometimes he exaggerated his exploits, the images prove that his success that evening was total. "I want Ness..." cries Capone "...and I want him dead!" >> Ness feels spied on under the threat of an invisible and permanent danger... He never sleeps two nights in a row in the same place... he varies his itineraries and never goes out without a bodyguard. Wounded in his pride, Capone continues to taunt the Incorruptibles who have no evidence to indict him. The arrest of his accountant will give a new twist to the hunt. Ness, the Treasury agent who thought he was an FBI cop, seizes his account books... Hotel bills, purchases of clothes, cars... They cross-check the inflows of money and outflows of checks ...Capone's name never appears... The evidence comes to light! The godfather cannot prove any official income even though he has a real fortune. Capone, weakened, knows that if he is stopped his system will collapse like a house of cards. The octopus of the tax administration extends its tentacles around the beer barons. Capone panics... and in a final burst orders the assassination of the prosecutor and the head of the treasury. Everything happens very quickly. Capone is stuck even if it is for simple tax fraud... He is a hunted man, abandoned by his family, who feels lost, who appears in court that day in front of a curious crowd and the flashes of hundreds of reporters. On October 12, 1931, the trial was nearing its end... From their discussions and their knowing looks, the court felt that the defense lawyers were going to play one last card. They summoned a last-minute witness the next day... a lawyer whose testimony alone could change the trial. His name is Richard Hart, he is 40 years old. In 1924, he was the bodyguard of a president of the United States, Coolidge... He was sheriff in Nebraska! An exemplary shooter. At 12 meters, he never misses his target... He is a man of peace, who worked for reconciliation with the Indians - a man who has only one credo: the law is the law ! Like the Untouchables, he arrested alcohol traffickers in the American West. What Capone was doing put an end to it.... This moral testimony could save Capone. Because Richard Hart is an assumed name, his real name is Vincenzo and he is Capone's own brother.... Remember, he is the eldest who left the family at the age of 16 ... When he wanted to see their mother again one day in 1924, Franck - the brother - had just been shot dead by the police... and Capone had driven Vincenzo out of Chicago... At the request of his mother, Capone's lawyers l asked... but Hart did not come to testify... he did not forgive the affront his brother had given him. The defense has lost its witness. Despite a final attempt to bribe the jurors, Ness is about to win his duel with Capone. Witnesses follow one another, tongues loosen, fear has changed sides. The trial can be concluded. The verdict is expected the next day. At 10 p.m., Al Capone will warn his wife of his imminent arrest. At midnight, he crosses Chicago as a free man - for the last time... Slum bars, nightclubs, brothels... He tells his wives that tomorrow, he will be exonerated even though he already no longer believes it ... The legend of Al Capone will say that that night, the giant of crime implored the stars while crying: "Luna, luna, tell me who betrayed me". Capone is sentenced to 11 years in prison. In the corridors, he speaks to Ness for the last time. "I wasn't lucky, but without me, your life is ruined! >> On the way, he buys an apple from a seller. He pays it generously to leave everyone with the memory of the lord that he was. In the evening he will have to go to the County Jail. Capone must now serve his sentence... The departure is set, it will be May 3, 1934 at midnight. Direction Atlanta - Georgia. To embody the triumph of good against evil, Prosecutor Johnson entrusted Eliot Ness with Capone's protection... At midnight, the doors open. In front of the pack of photographers, Capone raises his head and walks forward proudly. Ness is in the lead car. Capone the second. All sirens blaring, vehicles cross Chicago. The Incorruptibles are heavily armed to prevent any escape attempt... At the station, Capone walks next to a petty criminal being transferred to Tampa. A coat covers his hands to hide the handcuffs that bind the two thieves together ... White hat and dark purple suit... An outfit that will no doubt be out of fashion when he gets out of prison. Look, there in the crowd, Eliot Ness. If he smiles, it's for the journalists. Ness is not gloating. He would have preferred to have Capone sentenced to life in prison for the crimes of which the godfather was guilty, not to 11 years in prison for tax evasion. Capone will focus the country's attention on him for another 24 hours... Local radio stations inform their listeners hour by hour of the progress of the convoy... Along the entire route, thousands of onlookers crowd to catch a glimpse behind the windows of the number 40886, their hero who became public enemy no. 1... 1933: Roosevelt begins his first presidency of the United States and on December 5 of the same year, prohibition is abolished.... All of America was waiting for this measure. .. And the prohibition agent Eliot Ness, for lack of traffickers, finds himself unemployed. At that time, in a Chicago newspaper, a comic strip amused the reader. It tells the story of the fight between Dick Tracy, detective, and Big Boy, boss of the local mafia. The heroes who inspire this story are recognizable to all audiences. Eliot Ness and Al Capone. Ness gains unexpected notoriety... and considers himself justified in applying to the prestigious FBI.... Because the feds always exercise a magical power over their colleagues in other police services. But Hoover, their powerful boss, does not view this competition favorably with such a high-profile man. So, Hoover drags it out...and doesn't follow through on Ness's requests. Ness will never belong to the FBI. It is for him the beginning of decline: he starts drinking, leaves his wife, goes from failure to failure... We no longer know what to do with a myth that we prefer to forget. The former leader of the Incorruptibles has his head cluttered with memories... When he wants to write his memoirs, no journalist from Chicago wants to help him. And Ness will die before the release of his book without knowing its success. And the birth of his legend... In 1934, off the coast of San Francisco, the prison administration laid the first stone of a prison from which it is said that no one will be able to escape. Alcatraz! Mr. Prosecutor... It's Prosecutor Johnson - the one who convicted Capone - who inaugurates it.... Mr. Prosecutor, the cells are ready. The inspection is complete. And now security is in place, According to your orders. All the guards are at their posts. You can open Alcatraz. Capone will be one of the first prisoners. As the symbol of America's victory over its old demons. It is August 19, 1934, he is number 85. He still has five years to serve... He is a ruined man whose fortune has been seized by the federal government and whose power is nothing more than a memory. He is alone there... his visits are limited... he is attacked in the canteen... because he is no longer "the " boss. From now on, Machine Gun Kelly, a real tough guy, reigns over the prison thugs. Capone is ill, he has been diagnosed with syphilis... A future without promises, a past without memory... In 1938, his wife obtains visiting rights... She barely recognizes him. Aged and obese... Secretly, she prepares her transfer. Too dangerous to keep him there sick, prey to rivalries between gangs, where everyone wants to be Capone's killer. When he leaves prison a year later - he has become amnesiac... America has been at war since 1941 and he spends peaceful days in Miami. On January 25, 1947, a day of storm, the likes of which rarely exist in Florida, Capone breathed his last. The man who once held America in his hands dies forgotten by everyone.