(light music) - [Narrator] Canada is oil producer, but 98% of its crude is shipped to the US. But for the first time ever, this 733 mile pipeline Canadian oil to new - It basically changes the game for the entire industry here. - [Narrator] But critics argue that investments into hamstring the Canadian economy. Canada's boom could also be a who have grown used to Here's what's at stake for Trans Mountain pipeline expansion and what it could mean for and the world's energy markets. (uptempo music) - The oil and gas industry of Canada's GDP. The energy sector is one of the only industries in - [Narrator] 95% of the in Western Canada. It's home to Alberta's oil sands, where producers pump of thick tar-like oil every day. But most of that oil ends mainly in the Midwest, instead - For a long time, Canada to the US. It's a huge market that has - [Narrator] That created a relationship where each country relied on the other. Nearly all of Canada's oil and that oil makes up 60% of US imports. Pipeline advocates say that the heavy reliance on a Canadian crude prices for years. - Right now, most of the world's to come from Asia. Canada's been trying to get its oil to those markets for a long time. - [Narrator] The problem? Alberta is here in the and hundreds of miles The original Trans Mountain was the only pipeline bringing oil from Alberta to the west coast. So in 2013, energy company kinder Morgan filed an application At the time, it was estimated but the project stalled for from environmental and indigenous groups, as well as mounting costs. In 2018, the Canadian government buying the pipeline from Kinder Morgan. The project was ambitious, to new markets in Japan, China, and India by transporting more oil to a newly expanded near Vancouver. It included almost 120 miles of reactivated pipeline, and three new shipping berths all to triple the pipeline's capacity to ship nearly 900,000 barrels a day. In the end, it cost the more than six times the original estimate. - That's always a big mistake &quot;Hey, this is too risky a project. Circumstances have changed. We don't think we wanna build this.&quot; The government and taxpayers and say, &quot;Okay, we'll build it instead.&quot; - [Narrator] Thomas Gunton and benefits of projects like He estimates that taxpayers of the project up to $14.9 billion. A spokesperson for the and Minister of Finance that the expansion will fair market value for its resources, adding that the Bank of Canada estimates that it will contribute The project promised making up $2.7 billion in thanks to higher prices on the oil and an additional $34.5 - The Trans Mountain pipeline interest to Canada. It will be built. - [Narrator] After 12 years of the expansion opened but gains may not be as high as expected. - The idea that you were gonna was driven by the fact this was going to be a low-cost pipeline with relatively lower cost And therefore, even if you'd get a higher price 'cause the transportation Well, that's turned out not to be the case because they significantly - [Narrator] The expansion also promised to alleviate another problem Canada's growing oil sector faced, a strain on the country's as production increased. Now with 600,000 barrels of increased capacity a day oil producers are shipping to markets, including China and India. But that's been a blow who have been used to abundant access to discounted Canadian oil. - In June, Phillips 66, for with a lot of refineries in the that their margins have because all of a sudden to Canadian oil than they used to. - [Narrator] In a that it had great that can move oil into its and the shift could send ripple effects to consumers in the Midwest. Some experts expect refiners to pass higher crude costs Better oil prices and more customers outside of the US also mean a bigger - Canada's access to the the country a little than it ever had before. Now all of a sudden, Canada and some ability to kind of - [Narrator] But the to wean Canada off the US entirely, thanks to its geographic isolation, - The US will always be The easiest way out of for Canada to build more But the prospect of another it's unlikely. - [Narrator] That's partly because of heavy opposition from environmental and First Nation groups. Trudeau, whose approval rating for his support of the pipeline as he pushed to fight climate change. - Canada wants to be a climate leader and has implemented a number of policies and made international by 40 to 45% its greenhouse and reach net zero by 2050. - Now, the biggest contributor the oil and gas sector in this country. - The greenhouse gas emissions from all of the increased oil production and transportation will make to meet its climate objectives. - It's also a major risk for at least under Justin Trudeau because so much of the country's geared towards reducing the - [Narrator] But as growth of demand for oil slows around the world amidst a clean energy of the long-term prospects - So the world is moving away from oil. How fast it's gonna move but it's definitely moving away from oil. And these pipelines are because there's not going to fill up the pipelines to generate the revenue - [Narrator] For now that there will always be some demand for the 170 billion barrels of particularly in developing And projections show that despite growth decreasing, by the end of the decade. - Take the example of coal. People have been expecting as people reduce the use of coal for producing power or whatnot. The world is using more coal right now than it ever has in history. The sense is that it'll (light music)