Dr. Charles Stanley: When you and disappointments and trying respond? What's the difference in your even in your facial expressions? When you're going through a hard just--just suite you fine? What's the difference? Do you let the hard times get Do you find yourself being less Do you find yourself having a What upsets you? Now, you say that you've trusted Savior and your name is written you are a happy person. But when things are not going disappointments or hurt or respond? Does it absolutely wipe you out? Does your disposition change to &quot;Well, what happened to you? I thought he was a Christian. What's all this about?&quot; Are you the same person when things are going wrong? When you find yourself hang it up and walk away? Whatever happened to your faith? Whatever happened to your That relationship doesn't Maybe the way you express it because, maybe, you've never and joy. What's the difference? Well, when Paul wrote the book chapters, it's interesting what In these four chapters, over and In fact, one out of every seven speaks of joyful. That is, here he is in prison, to face death before long, soldier, and his response, think and being in prison. Every seven verses of over a and just--what did he know that Because we usually think about as a time to be sort of sad and And we say that God understands But until it does, I'm just That's not somebody who knows So, I want you to turn to And I want us to just read these fourth chapter, to get us He says, &quot;Therefore, my beloved and crown, in this way stand I urge,&quot; and he names a couple Syntyche to live in harmony in Indeed,&quot; he says, &quot;true help these women who have shared gospel, together with Clement workers, whose names are in the And so, he goes on with that, the Lord always, again, I will Lord. What does it take for you to And when I think about where in the world to be miserably probably cold in the winter and that more than likely, his determined, that he'd probably But somehow, he writes, in those that continually talks about joy the Lord that doesn't fit his And so, we'd have to ask now, if I were in that Would I be happy? Would I be content? Would I be talking about all the Or would I be complaining? The apostle Paul knew how to And when I think about that, I joy, he had triumphant joy. Joy that overcomes the disappointments in life. And so, as we think about that, between joy and happiness. A lot of people say, &quot;Well, life.&quot; Well, happiness depends upon Happiness depends upon maybe you, and who you are, and all But joy has something to do with Here's the difference: my circumstances, my joy depends That relationship with Jesus difficulty, hardship, and trial; There is a strong difference of joy that the apostle Paul And, as I think about it, I feeling. Happiness is just a Lot of things make people happy But when you've trusted Jesus Holy Spirit seals you once and you know that can never change, what we face, what valleys we Deep down inside, there's an contentment, that we can't even And when Paul wrote this experiencing. His future looked very, very In fact, it looked deadly dim. So, he could not look around and or I'm sad for that. But he didn't have his mind on And I think, oftentimes, we who circumstances to determine our whether we smile, do not smile. And we get trapped by Godly people do not live by by their relationship with Jesus child of God, and nobody can A person may get in prison or And Paul knew that where where he was, was not going to be. He was going to be in the And until then, the joy of the So, when you think about peace life, what do you think the And isn't it interesting that little bit of trauma, a little get all out of shape. And there are people who can go difficult times, but there's an foundation, there's something and Paul knew exactly what that So, it's pretty evident from something that most people don't a moment. He's in prison, sometimes with no real hope of ever that some of his fellow workers falsely accusing him, so that's suffer. People that he probably won to he talked to, now they're So how do you deal with that? Then likewise, having the and think about all the places He could no longer travel. He could no longer share his He couldn't go from one part of establishing churches. Now he's all closed in, shut in How do you have joy in that kind How could he possibly sing? Now, I don't know what kind of But think about this, can you out? Can you sing when your friends Can you sing when there's no Can you sing when you cannot see Can you sing when you've lost You say, &quot;Well, that's not Correct. It isn't natural. But you're not a natural person. When you trusted Jesus Christ as God came into your life and sealed you with the same Holy That's the reason Paul could sit knowing in his life that one of his life. But I want you to notice passage of Scripture. There's something in this--in is missing. You think, &quot;Well, did Paul No, but there's something And what's missing? No mention of his sorrow over bad the circumstances were, and surroundings. Now, most of us, that would've &quot;I don't know why I'm in here. I wish He'd get me out of here.&quot; And Paul is thanking God that who's--comes in to be his thanking God for his opportunity or a hot one 'pending on the the gospel. Just think about what those men Now, they were lost and didn't time the Apostle Paul had three could they not believe because for Paul writing this awesome about joy and rejoicing in the Because he knew something. But listen to this carefully, he I know, and we have it all Paul was listening to God speak We have it all written down. And so, we know why, and what, went afterwards. And somehow, he had this And in this particular epistle, is the one that talks about joy, all the rest. But you don't see any explanation of his awesome sense So, what's the source of it? Here's what it is. The source of his joy was his with Jesus. Can't be anything else. Now, watch this. You have the same privilege the thousand years ago. You have the same privilege. Jesus hasn't changed. And it's his plan that wherever the process of being in us, Spirit, but being through us to That's what the Apostle Paul was He was sharing himself with And when you think about his joy He was still rejoicing in the was in prison. So, let me ask you, when things go to prayer and tell God about ought to get better and claim a Do you ever rejoice in the Lord? It took me a--I have to admit, get that out of the pages into and to thank God when things Listen, these are the times we These are the situations and This is where get a glimpse of about. Christian life is not all about people being kind and nice to us everything we want, and this, The Christian life is all about when He's the only one that can And when He said count it all meant. Now, the choir can sing all They do a fantastic job of Jesus, and the power, and all And we love to hear it. But can you honestly say that your heart? You say, &quot;Well, I'm happy about No, that's not the same thing as Happiness comes and goes. Joy that's of God becomes the single day, that no matter what doesn't move. And I want to say to people who you can be lost next week and by some pastors, and some of It's just pure error. How can I have confidence and lose my salvation? You say, &quot;But people sin against they sin against God, they don't Let me ask you a question. Have you sinned since you were Yes. You haven't lost your salvation. What do you call that? G-R-A-C-E, grace. That is God's awesome grace to And so, when you think about joy is a spiritual gift. The fruit of the spirit is what? Love, peace, right. Love, joy, peace, goodness, and That's the gift of the Holy When you were saved, the Spirit seal you and indwell you and to To--here's what he began to do. He began to overflow through you goodness, kindness, and on we go You, watch this, you have the of the Spirit of God within you No matter what you're facing in And we talk about the Holy fountain ever flowing. Now, here's what happens. When you sin against God, And what happens? Watch this, He doesn't leave the joy of the Spirit of God And so, you have the fountain on That's the Holy Spirit. So, somebody says, &quot;Are you You're better than that. You're filled with the Spirit of working through you every day. And I wonder how often we stop Thank you, Lord; thank you, Jesus, for living in me, living promised to do. And so, here's the promise of feelings. There'll be feelings in your must be a thousand miles away.&quot; No, He's right where He's always of you. But we're the ones who forget. We allow feelings to overshadow, God living inside of you, living who He--watch this. In other words, when you look at think about God being the beautiful it is and so forth, or You can look around. But what's the most important It isn't what God's created, He--when you think about this, within us to manifest Himself, peace, goodness, and on we go. And that's what God wants within Now, the only thing clogs that Unbelief, for example, or doesn't do away with it, but it You can't live in sin and have It doesn't work. And every once in a while, I'll yes, I'm a Christian.&quot; And then the longer we talk and and up to and who they're with, You may have a little bit of you don't have the joy of Jesus, kind of life.&quot; That's who He is. He's living within us to do To establish us; to make us times; to protect our faith; to to answer our prayers; to show living within us through His And so, the Spirit of God anything and everything Doesn't mean you won't have Doesn't mean we won't be in the Doesn't mean we'll always do the through it. So, when we say the fruit of the the Holy Spirit within us, is And when that joy is in your facing, that's the joy of abilities and talents and God Himself. And Paul writing this to understand that no matter what realistic even in times of And you know, I can remember a much older than I was, but he He would call me every single he'll be praying for me the next And then on Monday morning, he morning to ask me how things Now, he was confined to a bed, forget how many; probably seven, before the Lord called him; he We forget how powerful the you, concerned for you, cares they're talking to the Heavenly We forget how awesome, how person's life. And I can remember thinking him live as long as I'm living, praying for me.&quot; Because I could sense it. And I would go through some and you know what? Without me calling him, me how I was doing. And I'd think, &quot;Well, you called And the Apostle Paul, imagine for while he was in prison. And when I think about, he knew 'cause he'd been there. He knew how to pray for them. And so I would ask you today, is person in your life or in your you pray for every day? Any one person? You see, here's the difference Happiness is based on condition or my desires or my many things. Joy is based on relationship. So, if you're going to write down. Happiness is based on be. Joy is based on relationship. My conditions and situations and they change. My relationship with Him does It is an eternal relationship Holy Spirit of the Living God. So, Paul could sit there with a relationship with God that no one day be released from that. It was his relationship. It wasn't his surroundings. Everything surrounding him would a dismal existence. But even in a Roman prison, confidence and assurance. Did he like his circumstances? Certainly not. But you see, watch this, our dependent upon our It's dependent upon an intimate, started in your life when you personal Savior, even when you girl, or an adult. So, that it's not our condition circumstances, but rather our Don't forget that. Your relationship to God Your circumstances may change relationship to Him. And I think he was thanking God also, God for the privilege of And just because we go through and trial, watch this, doesn't inch. Sealed by the Holy Spirit until And when I think about that, how hurting because of physical pain Well, several reasons, we can walk through it with us. We're not walking it by He says, &quot;I'll never leave you A second reason, listen, He's in That is a major issue. He is in control of your No matter who thinks they are, circumstances. Thirdly, He'll cause these times matter what. When we understand what real joy difficulty, hardship, and pain And then, there's nothing that And when you think about all jotting them down, and we can us. And I want to read a passage of This is not Paul's writing, this passage, and I love because But in first Peter beginning in &quot;Blessed be the God and Father according to His great mercy has living hope through the from the dead,&quot; period. He could have stopped there, but In order that we might, &quot;Obtain imperishable,&quot; we can't lose it, will not fade away, reserved in of us, &quot;are protected by the our salvation, ready to be In this you greatly rejoice, while, if necessary, you've been that the proof of your faith, which is perishable, even though result in praise and glory and Jesus Christ;&quot; what an awesome seen Him, you love Him, and but believe in Him, you greatly and full of joy.&quot; What an awesome passage of Now, think about this. I don't know how often you read I would like to think you read Now, I know everybody doesn't. But if you just want to stop and just decide I'm going to sit read those four chapters of says to me. Or I'm going to read these first the eighth verses of first That is an awesome passage of promise after promise. And there're all God's promises &quot;The proof of your faith being Now, most folks wouldn't agree Look at that. &quot;The proof of your faith, being which is perishable, even though result in praise and glory and Do you have joy in your heart? Doesn't sound like it. Doesn't sound like it. The joy of the Lord Jesus feeling, it's an awesome overflowing within us because of Now, if you've never trusted everything you heard, it's just And I want to invite you today life. And I want to get saved. I want God to change my life. I want to be able to claim what those two books of the Bible. I want God to change me. Will He do it?&quot; Yes, He will. Yes, He will. And I want to encourage you as a Notice I didn't say just a Jesus. That's who you claim to be. That you allow God's Word to overflow in you that no matter these verses and these truths they're applicable to every the circumstance, if you're Amen? Father, we thank You that You Thank you for the apostle Paul, going through. But he--what he didn't know, we will have learned so much by discovering who You are and We bless You and praise You this goodness, love, mercy, pain, joy in Jesus's name. Amen.