In June 2022, American $27.45 per hour. In 1972, the same workers per hour. A chart like this America has come a long way But when adjusted for remained virtually years, with workers today they did in 1972. When the average American is standards increase over a something that should With inflation at its Americans are feeling the Two thirds of American has outpaced any salary Now, because of the the monthly payments. So I had to pick extra job. But some economists argue myth that politicians use Politicians win elections by that is supposedly wrong in And so I think there is a and calculus involved in and promises to fix the So just how real is wage and what does it mean for Wages in America have 1970s. But it was 1979 when productivity and wage began Between 1979 and 2020, while productivity grew 61.8%. It's not true that wages They have, but they haven't in the past. Since the eighties, the We've gone really from an . When you have these big sometimes the gains are not has an impact on everyone's wages. Wage stagnation is worse for earners. The bottom 90% of annual wages increase by while wages for the top 1% Meanwhile, the top 0.1% saw 389.1%. Real wages, which means that inflation, is not the late 1970s. We know that, on the other over most of this period. I've been working about came here. That's about 30 And there was very little in general. Now, after the 2020, with the income stayed the same. People lost some of the experience, and we have to or secondary job or second maintain the monthly living. It's very hard. Despite causing severe labor market, the COVID surprising wage gains COVID has actually seen a wage growth, particularly This reflects a really labor market due to demand, whether it's from through fiscal stimulus restrictions on labor restrictions, early illness or deaths. So that has driven How to tell whether that's And that's why I want to be Did it change our life better in terms of labor We have to wait and see. Automation is one stagnation in America. The McKinsey Global million workers will lose advancements in technology Automation has been a really especially manufacturing So before, you built a car, was a lot of sort of hands Now much more of that is have to be a lot more machines, which means that have disappeared or they're Over the next two or three believe that there's going the labor market because of And even college-educated assistance and accounting medical diagnoses will be artificial intelligence, so facing that competition Globalization is another forcing domestic workers to competition. And in a lot of countries, So now, particularly if you specialized skills, you're And that means that a lot work and manufacturing work But that isn't all bad news It's important to remember cheaper. It's one of the inflation since the And everyone benefited from But that said, I think little cavalier that we saw people doing better about And we still don't really people like that. Economists suggest that bigger role than expected. American workers today are frequently than before, leads to strong take-home While some Americans don't desire for stability, is nowhere else to go. In many local markets, competition to suppress The notion of monopsony local labor market. Let's say that you live in particular town, and in employer, and given that there, then they set the than what you would pay. This was a fully 60% of U.S. labor markets are considered a few employers are Just 10% more workers in an reduction in posted wages. I've asked a couple of that was still before they just declined. They said they'll find practically lost the job. In case after case, you see were implemented to and to discourage workers or moving to a better town prospects. And this wage growth over time. Companies can also play a competition with methods Roughly half of private businesses that responded to least some of their agreements, meaning some 36 workers in America are agreements. The non-compete clause would current employer, not to consequences would be that for you to find employment. And if you are less likely tied in or locked in to the means that the likelihood keep getting his or her higher. There's rationale of the income distribution don't see much of a reason employees. Meanwhile, unions that compensation have over the years. Union membership in the fell from 20% of American 10.3% in 2021. Workers in unions typically 10.2% more compared to thanks to methods such as In those industries where high, the effect of market employer on wages was So the unions were able to employees even when they employers. So wages were decline as much. But some suggest that wage way out of proportion. The issue we have in the that a lot of researchers inflation metric, the really dramatically time. So if you look at two expenses per CPI have gone actually have. That means it makes it seem much smaller than it really You're actually able to buy wage than these researchers So that's why most Federal Reserve, like to inflation: the personal PCE. The PCE shows a much the last several decades. When you apply PCE to discover much higher wage workers. In other words, no And in fact, a pretty nice Focusing on broad national experiences can create They see, Ah, the percentage increased. Therefore, we decline. What they don't do at the people in those wages have done over time. So for example, you can janitor who works for 30 substantial increases in time. That would be lost. If you just look at I think it is technically a overblown to say that than they were in the patently absurd. I think everything about standards are higher. And even our real wages are But I think there is wages aren't growing as most people. So people equally sharing the same that is a problem that's unrest. Legislation could help solve causing wage stagnation in There is a limited amount policy when you have big globalization, forces like But policy can matter a For instance, things like that's adding to wage have non-competes, jobs. We could pass legislation to to unionize. There is a bill called the to Organize, that the House already passed. It's dead I think we also really need market, which, so far, I pretend doesn't exist and tier part of the labor of allow those platforms to I think it could become more dynamic and let people not just the downsides. The rise of remote work wage growth in local Some employers are very employees working remotely. In a way, if you can work when you think about diminishing the monopsony because if you are a are in a small town where large employers, you can can be based in any other . and work remotely and earn Achieving a fair wage for ensuring the success of the There's a basic, not just a there is something the American Dream. It attracts immigrants to It motivates all kinds of the economy productive. And wages really, in some the productivity and skills So if wages are stagnating that means that we are not country as we can be. That means the whole well as it can be.