How are you? Floor Generator, first I am going to explain how to generate Floor Generator for different options, wooden floors or some ceramic, and then how to texture. Come on, first tell you that the plug-in is free, you can download it from this page, all you need is to become a user and they will let you download it, there is a paid version but it's not really necessary. Very well, the first thing you need is a rectangle or it can also be a line of any shape, do not generate curves because perhaps the floor does not take them, it could be this, it could be a rectangle, they are almost always rectangles because the homes... are , well it can be a deck with a particular shape too. Once they have the object, line, they go to the modifier and once they install it, the floor generator will appear here, as you see, touch, click and here it is done automatically. I'll see it in perspective. From here you can see the dimensions of each table, each table here is 1000 cm, we are going to make them 400 and the width to be 40, it is out of scale because the floor that I made the base to show here the line, the rectangle is very small It is 150 by 200 cm, we are going to make it a normal size of a room 400 by 400 and we are going to touch the floor so that the maximum is 400 and the width let it be eight, which is more or less the size of a table, as you can see it is very unrealistic, this is this border and this can be modified with any of the options that I am going to show now...well here you see that 400 and it is locked the minimum you can also... so that it is not so so... even you can set the maximum to be 400 and the minimum to be 200 and the geometry of the floor is starting to be different , you see it here the same for the width, but I recommend not To change this , you can put, I don't know, a six and strange things will start to happen. I recommend always leaving 8-8 or whatever width you need, the Grou len is the distance between the boards, here it is in point two that seems good to me, you can put it in one, separating it further, I will show it in plan, a two to make a deck perhaps with 2 cm is fine . To make a floor, I would do it as little as possible point two is fine, and the good offset is very clear It is the distance between, that is, the offset between the distances between the ends of the boards. We leave the extrude at 20. It is the width. I am going to show you this in view. The height would be if I put it at 5cm. You see that it goes up, I leave it. in two it's fine and the bevel, this is what you see here, I don't like to use this but if they use it, they use it in very low numbers point two, and if they use it I recommend, Yes or yes, put a top on it, oh sorry , a chanfer, well he did anything , point one so that this curve really is a curve and not as you see here something straight because it is going to generate strange things now I'm going to delete it I'm going to leave it like this and we continue, what else, other options important ones we can have, eh okay Ah the tilt, the tilt It is good for generating some imperfections, in this table for example I set the maximum one, you will see that it starts to be misplaced this is good for generating some imperfections, I never don't know point two something like that might be fine, I'm going to leave it at zero now. From here I change the direction if you want it to go there or if you want it to go the other way, if I put 90 it will go the other way, I leave it at zero. the scale in 100 Or in 100, and those are the options, no more than that This is useful for making a wooden floor but it can also make a ceramic, I don't know, ceramic of 60 Well, I have the minimum, this I'm going to lock back one 60 by 60 okay 60 here 60 60 there Sorry 60 60 there they have a ceramic tile for example a floor, or whatever Here it is placed incorrectly so that it is straight they remove the offset at zero, then it stays straight, and there they have a ceramic or whatever they want, if they can it doesn't have to be 60 60 it can't be 80 here and there they have something more real here of course the ceramic wouldn't have a bevel zero bevel where were you here zero and the offset well, I could have..... it depends on you, the offset almost at zero. Well, let's go back to the wood. I think that with this, of course, once you generate it, you can copy it and apply it to whatever, copy-paste and there. The apartment is going to be generated for me, or if they have another one on another floor, they have the same one. They have to generate the same apartment. They copy it and paste it above as an instance if they want and when they modify this one, the other one will be modified as well. I'm going to delete all this and now I'm going to make a wooden floor again here we're going to put a 300 300 and here an eight, Sorry minimum eight maximum eight and 300 150 and there we have a wooden floor. I'm going to show how to texture this so that it is realistic, very good, I have something ready here, this is with a crown, obviously, I recommend for this to always use a multi-material Corona that they get from here, maps a multimap, what does this do? It will give a Random color to each wooden plate, you can use it with a single item, here you will change it , or with 4...5, whatever you want, in this case I prepared four Woods. . that. Well, the wood here does not have to be the floor, it has to be the wooden plate, and the wooden plate is let's see if I have it, for example, this is how they can make it, but let's see this wooden plate, that is, so that You understand, the wooden plate is not the diffuser of the entire floor. To generate, if you don't have it, grab any diffuser from the entire floor as I have it ready here that you can download from any page, it doesn't have to be Tileable, nothing like that, you cut a piece of wood, you make a save like... and you have a wood, make three or four and that's it... you already have something to generate many floors, I'm going to take out. Here I have three, so here I'm going to put three more and I'm going to place in color 1, in color 2 and in the color 3 and this to Diffuse, First I want to show what this does in the material, I apply it, multimap in the diffuse I only have, I have nothing, I'm going to start an interactive, I'm going to take this from here, So we can see better, Okay we're not going to see nothing, I don't have any light, of course it's going to be black, we're going to put a white background. So it looks like something, well here you see that it's not doing anything, it's all yellow, correct, so what I have to tell the multimap is that I I randomize according to polygons, So when I pull this they see that each polygon has a different color, actually each polygon doesn't because they see that the edges of Las Maderas are also in Random. So let's do it as primitive, either, I always miss this one =)... Element, perfect, Element is going to make a Random in each complete wood, it can be Random of the uses, you have three here, if I leave this in one, it cannot be Random Obviously because it has only one material, but using one and I tell you that the hue I also have a 20% of Random is going to do me with a single map, a Random on the H this can be the zero it can be a random the gamma a 20 is also going to do it now I show it with materials this, I am going to have three again Here all it does for me is do a Random on the three maps I'm using. So I put a map here, a map here, map here, perfect. Now it is randomly using a map on each wooden plate, which is what we want and it looks pretty good. Well here you see that it is sort of badly scaled, if that happens to you what you can do is turn the floor as I showed you before, change the direction of the map, in reality the map has to be as close as possible to the size you are using , There it's okay to use wood or if you don't want to turn the floor, of course you can turn the map here on the W. Put, 90 see that I'm entering each one, 90 90 and there rotate all the floors and the scale starts to be Well, don't make a UVW map for this because you see what's happening here, that is, you don't understand, you make a UVW map for the entire floor, as if it were a single plane, and as you see here, it doesn't work. So this goes away... They delete it and there they see that it looks much better, then the floor has this to make a wooden floor. I also want to show you how you can use it with a single map, that is, I am going to do this with only one, if you have only one map, you see that I only have one and it is always using the same map here it repeats it constantly, I go to zoom in a little, I want to use a single map and I want it to be more realistic and have a little variation between the Woods, Well I'm going to activate a Random gamma of 5%, sorry, I'm 5%, it's a You see the gamma that I have there, let's use it in one, perfect, Now with just one map you can see that the floor is a lot too, point 1, the hug looks pretty good, you can use it too, well everyone does this, whatever they need. Very good, I also recommend Okay I put this, only here that it is connected to the multimap map and behind the multimap a Corona color correct that is going to give you what I connect to the diffuse is going to give you a lot of control over the end of this, yes I don't know if they want the floor to be lighter, they lower it, not darker, Sorry, they lower the gamma, I'm exaggerating, it's lighter, they raise the gamma or they want, uh, they want to change the H 20, change it, throw it to green, throw it to magenta, they can do whatever they want or lower the saturation a little more, I don't know, it depends on each person's scene, the truth is, and for what this is very useful, for example, they want to put this in the glossy in the reflections. So they put it in the reflections so that it reflects something, they lower it the saturation minus one for black and white and here we are going to have to increase the reflection, now it does not reflect anything because there is nothing, but believe me it is reflecting so you can use it or in the glossy too I think this is for another tutorial But well, you can copy it in the glossy here, trust that it is reflecting that. I'm going to create an object here to see a sphere, I have it very well. material happens that now it does not reflect because I put the glossy on it and there you see how it reflects perfectly. What you are going to do using this map is that each wood also reflects differently. I think that I would have to do an entire tutorial on How to handle these reflections well, but by trying you will realize, and now as an example I am going to do the same but to generate a floor of I don't know, some a tile, a ceramic whatever, here I have three maps the same concept, it has to have the non-individual map of this for example this floor this floor plate I am going to use now I am going to use three, I'm going to be faster.... Only because I already They understood, so the first thing I'm going to do is modify the floor 60 Sorry, this is always 70 70 and here 50 50 well here well you can also order these floors in different sizes, you can do it, I 'll do 50 for 70, which is the most classic and I'm going to name it the same, I make a Corona a map Corona multimap is here here I have three So I'm going to tell you that I have three you can have 100 if you want, But You don't need it, I apply it to the diffuse color one color two color three and there I applied it you see it back here that it is applied and now I'm going to pull an interactive to see how it looks, good very good here you see it you see that it has a variation here it would be well, it's reflecting a lot because I set it to reflect here in one I'm going to copy the same map in the glossy here to lower it a little, it looks much better there and but since the plates are very similar, it has and you can see these repetitions that is spinning What I'm going to do is change the Gamma a little, very well, Ah...... no, it's not doing anything, there it's using the three maps, I didn't have this checked, remember if it's not checked, this is not going to do anything , Element, there you are using me in variation one in each one, let's see to see it better, I'm going to distill this to see if it works, always check if it works well, and if correct... you see that it has orange, yellow and red, how much if they put more colors you will see more But You're going to need more maps too, I activate it and there we have a porcenalatto, a ceramic, or whatever. This can be used on walls, on floors, in a lot of options, I think it's a Yes or Yes to have this floor generator in daily use, you can also use maps of course But this gives a lot more control to everything, I hope you like it use it, let it serve you and goodbye....