[airplane engines roaring] CAPT. ROSCOE BROWN: As I look down, there was like a storm. All those bullets were coming after me. LT. THURSTON GAINES: I felt the two thumps and the cockpit started filling with smoke and the airplane, it actually broke in two, and I figured it was time for me to pull the ripcord. LT. COL. ALEXANDER JEFFERSON: Fire came up out of the floor right in front of the stick. And I remember the tail going by. I could see the rivets. CAPT. ROSCOE BROWN: I pulled up in the blind spot, put the sight on 'em, and just followed it. Boom! NARRATOR: On December 7th, 1941, Japan launched a surprise attack on Pearl Harbor, sweeping the United States in to war. [airplane engines roaring, explosions] PRESIDENT FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT: December 7th, 1941, a date which will live in infamy. NARRATOR: By mid-1942, Japan had conquered most of Southeast Asia and the Pacific; Nazi Germany had overrun most of Europe; Hitler invaded Russia, hammered Britain, and pushed into North Africa. His regime began the systematic slaughter of millions of people, attempting to create a &quot;master race.&quot; [Hitler speaks in German] But America wrestled with its own principles. Despite the statement in the Declaration of Independence that all men are created equal, the United States had long permitted human beings to own other human beings. Slavery had been abolished for 75 years, but even in the 1940s, racial violence against African Americans was still a brutal fact of life. SGT. GRANT WILLIAMS: Segregation was prevalent throughout, and especially in the south. We knew our place, we knew that we had to abide by the laws. NARRATOR: Despite pioneering African American pilots like Bessie Coleman and Eugene Bullard, in 1940 the number of African American aviators in the U.S. Armed Forces was still zero. LT. COL. HERBERT CARTER: The Air Corps was not accepting any type of application. Their attitude was that the Negro had neither the physiological or psychological capabilities to operate complicated equipment like an airplane. NARRATOR: But 1940 was an election year. To keep the African American vote, President Franklin D. Roosevelt promised that African American soldiers would be trained as military pilots. ROOSEVELT: Almost every American could come to Tuskegee and see what's been done. NARRATOR: On July 19th, 1941, 13 young men reported for training in Tuskegee, Alabama. Their goal: to become the first African American pilots in the United States Armed Forces. Fighter pilots. Tuskegee had been a logical place to train the pilots. It was a secluded location with good weather year-round. Tuskegee Institute's Civilian Pilot Training Program had some of the highest scores in the nation, but the surrounding area was racially hostile. ALAN GROPMAN: The Ku Klux Klan was very powerful in the Tuskegee area, and the sheriff was a very, very bigoted individual who worked very hard to arrest the blacks for any infraction whatsoever. COL. CHARLES MCGEE: If anything happened, you were always wrong and there was no place to turn, so you had to be pretty careful where you went, how you went, and how you acted. EDITH ROBERTS: To be told &quot;You can't go here, you can't live there, you can't go and to the five-and-dime and get a coke...&quot; It was hard for me. LT. COL. GEORGE HARDY: It was a shock to realize how deep it went. You look in the faces of some of those southern whites, in their eyes, just to see the hatred that some of them had for us. NARRATOR: In Tuskegee, two airfields were hurried to completion- Moton Field for primary flight training and Tuskegee Army Airfield for basic and advanced flight training. The new airfields were almost entirely African American, but the base officers were almost all white. Frederick von Kimble, commanding officer at Tuskegee Army Airfield, wrote, &quot;Negroes do not have the necessary temperament for leadership to fit them for superior positions.&quot; On March 7th, 1942, the first class completed their basic and advanced pilot training, becoming the first African American pilots in the U.S. military. But only five of 13 advanced. In December 1942, Tuskegee Army Airfield got a new commanding officer. COL. LOUIS HILL: We were fortunate enough to have a white Colonel named Noel Parrish who was open-minded and was willing to make the program he was put in charge of, work. LT. LEROY GILLEAD: Colonel Parrish, he was a somewhat of an enlightened Kentuckian who was familiar with the race situation and understood it, so he's more sensitive and he treated everyone basically as individuals. AIRMAN 1: All of 'em? AIRMAN 2: Yep, Colonel's orders. AIRMAN 1: Well, what do you know? Things sure are changing around here. AIRMAN 2: Well it's about time if you're asking me. NOEL PARRISH: Gentlemen, I know that the town of Tuskegee is not one where you can feel particularly welcome, but I hope to at least make conditions better on base. FLORENCE PARRISH-ST. JOHN: I've had them tell me how they feel about Noah and I'm almost in tears. One of the fellows said, &quot;There are two men in my life who have made my life what it is and directed me in the right area. One was my father, the other was Noel Parrish.&quot; NOEL PARRISH: And don't be surprised if I go up for a check ride... NARRATOR: In the spring of 1943, the first group of African American pilots, the 99th Fighter Squadron, deployed to North Africa. Their commanding officer was Lieutenant Colonel Benjamin O. Davis, Jr. The son of an Army general, Benjamin O. Davis, Jr. had been the only African American in his class at West Point. PFC DABNEY MONTGOMERY: They put on him what they called &quot;the silent treatment.&quot; We talk to you in a classroom setting, but the moment you walk out of that door nobody would speak to you. SGT. VAL ARCHER: What he suffered there and experienced there, the kind of discipline that he had, this guy was like iron. LT. COL. HERBERT CARTER: Benjamin O. Davis, a commander of the 99th and, later, the 332nd, he was a man of high standards and yet very human in being able to understand the human weaknesses. NARRATOR: When the Allies invaded Sicily in July 1943, the 99th provided critical air support, earning a Distinguished Unit citation. But another enemy was gathering forces against the Tuskegee Airmen. A white Colonel named William &quot;Spike&quot; Momyer claimed that the 99th Fighter Squadron showed &quot;a lack of aggressive spirit.&quot; ALAN GROPMAN: 90 days after they got into combat, after the 99th got into combat, he recommended that it be taken out of combat. Spike Momyer's recommendation was ratified all the way up the chain of command to the Commanding General of the Army Air Forces, Hap Arnold. NARRATOR: High command was recommending that no more African American pilots be sent overseas. LT. COL. TED LUMPKIN: Double Victory was a campaign to defeat the Germans and Japanese in World War II, and if we were successful in doing that, it would also be that we would defeat prejudice in the United States. NARRATOR: To win a Double Victory, the Airmen first had to win the right to fight. Their defense fell to their commanding officer, Colonel Benjamin O. Davis, Jr. In Washington, Colonel Davis pointed out that the squadron met enemy fighters on 80% of their missions and that his men often flew three to six missions a day. COL. DAVIS: Our squadron is comprised of 26 pilots, versus your typical 30 to 35 pilots per squadron. ALAN GROPMAN: Benjamin Davis Jr. got a chance to testify before that board, and every fact that Momyer put up to take the unit out of combat, he refuted. COL. DAVIS: If I may add, very frankly, if all the effort invested in the 99th Squadron has produced only a mediocre outfit, then there's no hope. But the 99th is not mediocre. ASST SEC. MCCLOY: Well, thank you Lieutenant Colonel Davis. That was very succinct and I appreciate your candor. NARRATOR: The matter was dropped. The Tuskegee Airmen would be in the war for the duration. In January 1944, a massive German strike force hit the Allied position at Anzio. The 99th Fighter Squadron raced to the defense. Clarence Jamison led a formation of 16 fighters. LT. COL. CLARENCE JAMISON: The controller called me on the radio, &quot;Fox Trot Leader, we go 22 bogeys at 20,000 feet.&quot; I maneuvered around down his tail, but my gun jammed and stopped firing. But the rest of my guys were in perfect position, so we got seven planes in that one day, and that was the best day we had in combat as a squadron. NARRATOR: In two days of vicious fighting over Anzio, the 99th racked up the most aerial victories of any squadron, shooting down 13 enemy aircraft. LT. COL. HERBERT CARTER: No more, no longer could that myth that the black man could not fly and fight. They can do extraordinary things and this they did there on the beaches of Anzio. NEWSREEL ANNOUNCER: Men of the 99th have a brilliant record. Now, they take off to aid ground forces advancing on... NARRATOR: By June 1944, the 99th had been in combat for a full year. They'd flown 500 missions, downed 18 enemy planes, and lost just four men of their own in combat. &quot;A magnificent showing,&quot; said the head of the Mediterranean Allied Air Force. That July, the three new African American fighter squadrons joined the 99th in Italy and were gathered into a single unit: the 332nd Fighter Group. The commander for the group was Colonel Benjamin O. Davis, Jr. The combat was often fierce. There was glory and there was loss. CAPT. ROSCOE BROWN: We came down on this airport, and my good friend, Jimmy Calhoun, was flying with us, and he was so anxious to get the angle to shoot the plane on the ground, he flew into the ground. That was the first major loss that I experienced. LT. COL. CLARENCE JAMISON: Brooks got killed in Sicily early on and the engine quit on him and he crash-landed. I knew him pretty well and I felt pretty bad about it because I felt I should be there to protect him. LT. NANCY LEFTENANT-COLON: My brother lost his life on his third mission over Austria and we really didn't get any closure on that because we really don't know what happened to him. NARRATOR: The fliers of the 332nd Fighter Group were based at Ramitelli Airfield in Italy, and they were not alone. For every Tuskegee Airmen in the air, there were ten maintenance personnel on the ground supporting him. [mechanical noises] SGT. JAMES SHEPPARD: We had to have those planes ready to go on the mission in the morning, with the guns or bombs-- if they were carrying bombs-- fueled up to the hilt so he could fly for 3-4 hours. We guaranteed that. [airplane engine starts up] NARRATOR: By the summer of 1944, the Tuskegee Airmen were flying a brand-new fighter plane. COL. CHARLES MCGEE: We got the P-51 Mustangs. Ask an old fighter pilot, &quot;What's your favorite aircraft?&quot; It's going to be the P-51 Mustang. LT. SHELBY WESTBROOK: Well, the P-51 was the most honest aircraft that we flew. It was a stable airplane at most speeds. [plane engine noise] NARRATOR: the Tuskegee Airmen quickly made their P-51s distinctive. SGT. WILFRED DEFOUR: It was discovered that we have a lot of red paint, so they decided to paint the 332nd Fighter Group's aircraft with red tails. LT. COL. HERBERT CARTER: We agreed when we started getting D model with the dorsal, paint that tail red. We would paint them, and not only that, but we would take the name the &quot;Red Tails.&quot; NARRATOR: The Red Tails, under Colonel Davis, were a disciplined group. LT. COL. ALEXANDER JEFFERSON: You got up at five o'clock, went in for the briefing. After your briefing, standing at the door was B.O. Davis... tall, ramrod... looking you dead in the eye as you went out with your chute on your back. &quot;Gentlemen, stay with the bombers.&quot; LT. COL. HERBERT CARTER: He said, unquestionably, our mission is to protect the bombers, not to see how many interceptors we can shoot down, and we are to do whatever is necessary to see that those bombers get safely to their target and back home. And if it meant your sacrifice of your life, that's what you're there for. 1ST LT. JIM SCHEIB: 'Cause here you are over Germany, and the flight engineer hit me on the shoulder and he went like that... And I looked out the window and there was a P-51, and he was flying extremely close. He was wearing an oxygen mask which covered almost all of the face, but I could tell that under that oxygen mask the face was black, and I knew right away that this Mustang was being flown by the all-Negro 332nd Fighter Group. And I looked back at his tail and, sure enough, the tail was painted red. And I signaled to him that we were okay. It was extremely comforting to know what they were doing. They were telling me-- they came down to see if I was okay and they were telling me, &quot;We're here.&quot; Well, after a few minutes they left and they went back up to altitude, but some of them were assigned to us, to watch us as we went back. Up until that time, I had never spoken to a black more than a few words. That was the beginning of the relationship where I understood that they weren't that much different. You know, they were not &quot;those people.&quot; PILOT: I wanted to thank you for helping us up there. We were all doing the same thing. Those guys were flying fighter airplanes. They were risking their lives to protect our lives. [talking] NARRATOR: But even as the fighters did well in combat over Europe, African American crews ran into problems back home. James Warren was a navigator/bombardier in the 477th Bombardment Group. LT. COL. JAMES WARREN: Finally, they moved the group up to Freeman Field, Indiana, but when we got up there, we were confronted again with a very discriminatory and segregated position by the command. NARRATOR: By 1944, the War Department prohibited segregation of military facilities but Group Commander Colonel Robert Selway created two officers' clubs at Freeman Field: one for African American trainees, and one for whites. On April 5th, 1945, an organized group of African American officers deliberately attempted to enter the forbidden club. GUARD: You can't come in. OFFICER: Why? GUARD: You belong to the trainees, and the trainees can't come in. OFFICER: I'm a member of the base squadron. GUARD: Well, niggers can't come in. NARRATOR: One of their leaders, Roger Terry, shouldered aside an officer who blocked his way. LT. LEROY GILLEAD: There were 61 officers who were put under arrest for entering or attempting to enter the officers' club. LT. COL. JAMES WARREN: They arrested the first group under letter order and they arrested 61 of us in two days. I was in the first group that was arrested. NARRATOR: Selway soon released most of the officers, but he prepared a statement spelling out which personnel could use which club, and ordered everyone at Freeman Field to sign it. LT. PATTISON: Base Regulation 85-2 identifies the assignments of facilities for all base personnel. LT. COL. JAMES WARREN: To me, it said I agree to be segregated and discriminated against. No way was I going to sign this. LT. LEROY GILLEAD: There was 101 who refused the order to segregate yourself. I'm one of those 101. LT. COL. JAMES WARREN: To refuse that direct order of a commanding officer in a time of war was a violation of Article of War 64. Maximum punishment was death. WHITE OFFICER: This is a direct order. Sign the regulation. [heavy footprints] NARRATOR: The arrests at Freeman Field triggered a strong public reaction. Congressmen and Senators complained to the War Department. For nearly two weeks, the 101 officers were held under arrest. &quot;It was like a Nazi prison camp,&quot; one man said. Finally, the case reached the top. General George Marshall ordered Selway to release all but three of the men. Roger Terry, the only man convicted, suffered a fine, loss of rank, and a dishonorable discharge. As for Selway, he was relieved of his command because he violated Army regulation. The war ended before the 477th Bombardment Group could see action. But at Freeman Field, these Airmen too had scored a crucial triumph: at home. LT. LEROY GILLEAD: Double Victory is for the Freeman Field mutiny. That's it, so that's what that's about. Victory at home, victory abroad, and Freeman Field is the victory at home. NARRATOR: In May 1945, Germany surrendered, ending the war in Europe. In three years, Tuskegee had trained almost 1,000 pilots and some 15,000 support personnel. They'd flown 1,500 missions overseas. Eighty-four Tuskegee Airmen lost their lives during the War, but they'd created an astounding record of success. In October 1945, the 332nd Fighter Group came home at last, to the nation they'd risked their lives for. LT. COL. HERBERT CARTER: We got no ticker tape parade. We got no welcome. You got off the boat and you went and got on a segregated train and you rode it home for your 30 days leave. SGT JAMES SHEPPARD: When the war ended, with all the experience that we had, pilots and mechanics, we thought that we'd just go downtown and sign up with the airlines. They told me, &quot;You know, you fit the bill, but we're not hiring any colored mechanics.&quot; LT. COL. ALEXANDER JEFFERSON: Coming back home, you talking about feeling downhearted, you're darn right. But this was what was going on in the United States of America in 1945. Lynching, all kinds of segregation... NARRATOR: Due in part to the exemplary performance of the Tuskegee Airmen, on July 26th, 1948, President Harry Truman signed Executive Order 9981, ending segregation in the armed forces. In the country at large, segregation was still the law of the land. But the Tuskegee Airmen had given their people something more than hope. PFC DABNEY MONTGOMERY: My experience as a Tuskegee Airmen gave me inner strength to get out and join Martin Luther King and walk 53 miles for freedom. Tuskegee Airmen came home and became involved in the struggle at home and, as a result, they changed the condition at home. LT. COL. HERBERT CARTER: The Tuskegee Airmen were men with goals, determination, and the desire to overcome the odds of life, to succeed and be recognized as citizens. Not so much for the glory that it might bring for themselves, but it was the love of this country in spite of her imperfections. CAPT. ROSCOE BROWN: Dreams come true. The dream to end segregation, the dream to be an aviator, the dream to be a college professor, the dream to be a leader in the community... Those are great things happen, but the other part of it is the challenge that remains. LT. COL. JAMES WARREN: Take advantage of that opportunity. You don't let it-- don't pass it up. That's what the Tuskegee Airmen did. When that door opened, they walked through it with their qualifications and their ability to perform. LT. COL. CLARENCE JAMISON: You're gonna have to pay your dues, it's not gonna be easy, you have to work at it. But you have the opportunity... and the sky's the limit.