If you want to hear the unknown origins and see in the story, then stick around to the This lesson is sponsored by Audible. [INTRO] The Beldam is the dreaded seamstress that children to feast on their souls. Welcome to Horror History, last episode we so today's I'll be covering her antagonist, The story keeps the Beldam mostly shrouded that we can use to learn more about the creature's moreover its purpose in the twisted world So who is The Beldam and how did it come to In order to understand, let's take it back Mother. [HORROR HISTORY] It's never explicitly stated how old The the souls of the victims she has captured. It seems she has been luring in children for Perhaps her oldest victim is a little boy she's locked behind the mirror. When he first sees Coraline he asks, "Art The phrase is derived from Old English, and Century. When Coraline asks if he's a boy or a girl, wear skirts, but believes he was a boy. He may be speaking of a style called breeching in articles of clothing known as breeches, 1500s to the early late 1800s. I researched the year by year usage of some Tain't, Scullery and Peradventure and determined and 1760. It is possible that the Beldam is older than The word Beldam as we know it today actually woman or witch, a possible clue about the to do with witchcraft. The stone that Miss Spink and Miss Forcible she might encounter is an Adder Stone, which Coraline uses it's magic to find the souls a witch artifact would need to be used to Additionally, the Adder Stone is said to be "adder" actually refers to a type of snake. The Beldam has many spider-like properties, and arachnid creature, and spiders are said At least that's what Harry Potter taught &quot;It is an ancient creature we spiders fear above all others.&quot; Witches are often portrayed with the ability sense that The Other Mother's true form It seems that the Beldam has the ability to that it only took the spider form at the end some of her more intrinsic attributes I will point out as we go through her story. For example, the Beldam has been living in it to lure in kids so she can steal their a spider weaves its web to capture flies. It's never explicitly stated why she needs Cat, &quot;She wants something to love... I think Something that isn't her. She might want something to eat as well. It's hard to tell with creatures like that.&quot; So it seems like she needs to lure in these capture their souls and slowly feast off them At the time Coraline's family moves into three of these souls. Her world seems to be anchored to this one seem to be kids who lived there; she doesn't out new victims, which may explain why she's She also has the ability to manipulate her that she's trying to abduct. When Coraline moves in, she gets to work creating to stay there forever. She seems to be able to fabricate her own anything," she only had the ability to "copy So she spends two weeks studying Coraline's of three wonders designed to entice the young and thrilling displays to counter the boring circus in place of the strange man living food and attentive parents as opposed to Coraline's and the meals rarely cater to her palette. The Beldam built a gateway between the two to another flat that had piqued Coraline's There were other ways in and out of the world, up seeing any of them. When the illusion is ready, The Beldam uses her see dark shapes that gather under the seem more interesting than her reality and One day Coraline's curiosity gets the better door and opens it to find the passageway, Mother. She is described as being taller and thinner longer teeth, shiny black hair that drifts black buttons in place of her eyes. She tells Coraline to go get her Other Father, It does seems that there are other life forms at the mercy and control of the Other Mother. The Other Father is the first example, but Mother. It seems he's more of a featureless blank to look and act like Coraline's father, sell the idea that the two of them are a couple, The fact that The Other Mother sews together similarity to spiders, who weave webs using victims. The Beldam is the only life form of her kind entities lurking in the dark whose origins now. If you want to fully experience the dark twisted by listening to the audiobook on Audible. The audiobook is narrated by Coraline's I love listening to the story and knowing way the author intended it. But I use Audible for so much more than just Pretty much any book you can think of has far from the extent of their offerings -- you Audible originals that you'll never find What I love about the service is that it can in today's world, but thanks to Audible, It's great for me when I'm making these time I want to take notes, I can just have And when I'm listening to a title for fun, while I'm exercising, sometimes even while stories that I never would have had the time Just visit audible dot com slash czsworld I'll leave the link for you in the description. Again, that's audible dot com slash czsworld. The Other Mother and Other Father tell Coraline and this is all part of the lie created by comfortable staying in the other world. She sends Coraline up to play with the rats The rats are basically like henchman that They entertain Coraline and stack on top of clothes of the man upstairs. At first she thinks that this is simply The and Other Father, but by the end of the book have someone to play that role, it's actually person. But there are two more human-looking "other" world, which she encounters when she goes replaced the flat of Miss Spink and Miss Forcible. Coraline learns that the performers did not take off the fat suits and reveal thin young These would be the last two human characters So we have the Other Mother, who is the shape-shifting doesn't actually look like Coraline's just wearing costumes to make them look like So who are these other life forms living in We know that the Other Mother's goal is eyes, so what if these other people being she abducted over the years? The idea makes sense, because there are only we later find that the kids' souls have to exist only as ghosts who can no longer While Coraline is busy inside the theater, and kidnaps Coraline's parents. She imprisons them inside of a snowglobe and room of the other world. At the end of Coraline's visit to the theater, house and make the offer to let Coraline stay eyes. Coraline promptly tells her she'll be leaving off Coraline's shoulder like a frightened They tell her to come back soon, and she leaves. The Other Mother seals back up the doorway, returning to the world build before she reopens Eventually Coraline returns to the Beldam's Mother tells her that her parents were bored magic ability she possesses for the purposes She's able to brush her hand against the real parents. They appear to be going on vacation without it is not to have Coraline weighing them down. Coraline doesn't fall for the false image, tactic by having one of her rats run into so that Coraline can't get back out. The other parents go to bed, commenting on aren't going to have a midnight snack. I'm guessing that snack was supposed to of the idea that The Other Mother needs to There's some evidence of this the next day, Father's study, and he's just sitting She also thinks "he looked less like her There was something slightly vague about his rise, smoothing out the bumps and cracks and The Other Mother is out in the garden during passageways that exist between the real world not freely travel in and out. The Other Mother does not like the cat and I think this is because she is afraid of him true form is a spider, cats eat spiders, so out. The Cat claims there are passages that the Other Mother next encounters Coraline as she's game, which reveals another important trait It is likely that she loves games because It seems she could have easily sewn buttons elects not to, probably because they have She's also a notorious manipulator, so games with her victims and cheat her way into winning Coraline doesn't fall for the idea of playing tries to convince her stay again, casually &quot;They're cocoa beetles from Zanzibar!&quot; This is the only thing we actually see the She doesn't eat any of the real food that the metaphor of how she wants to consume Coraline's And the Beldam Unable to get anywhere with Coraline, she manners by refusing to cave into her demands as punishment and keeps her there until the During this time, Coraline meets the ghost when The Beldam takes your soul. The victims have forgotten their own names trivial details about their lives and the their joy and their hearts and leaving them While Coraline is locked away, The Other Mother the role of The Other Father for telling Coraline She strips him of any remaining identifying cellar below the abandoned flat next door. She locks him in there and swallows the key. The next morning she retrieves Coraline and hoping today would be the day that she finally with a challenge in a scene that teaches us the Beldam. Coraline challenges The Other Mother to a If she can locate the souls of the dead children her leave this world. Other Mother never planned on keeping her grave to go through with it. We don't know if a creature like The Beldam though, so this could be relatively meaningless. Coraline seems privy to that fact, so she I think this is a strategic move by The Other There are many references to her spider like Her hand is caught of the arm, and it continues to crawl around What if the Beldam is actually just this hand? We know that she has the ability to create possible that the arms, torso, legs, neck a false sense of security. So she had no issue betting on her mother's mother and no issue betting on her right hand, her from the rest of her body. After making the deal, The Other Mother disappears souls of the lost children. With each soul found, the world flattens, The once bustling theater becomes abandoned I think that without possession of those souls, unable to keep up the illusion of the perfect She starts to fear that Coraline will find her off course. She regurgitates the key to the empty flat order to find the final soul, which is of it anyways. Inside, Coraline comes across a giant dead We don't have any information on any possible I have to wonder if this is what happens when to feed off of. In the basement, she encounters the thing Mother seems to be influencing his actions, &quot;Run, child. Leave this place. She wants me to hurt you, to keep you here game, and she will win. She is pushing me so hard to hurt you. I cannot fight her.&quot; More nervous than ever, the Other Mother sends from where it's hidden upstairs, but she's in the other drawing room. Other Mother plans to trick Coraline into she thinks she knows where her parents are worlds. Other Mother opens it to show her that she and earn her the right to see buttons over The Cat is flying though the air towards her It scratches and attacks her just long enough The Beldam screams out, &quot;No!&quot; in an inhuman door, but it pinches her wrist and servers form of the Beldam. The hand crawls around her Coraline's world forever be locked out of the other world where That night it was unable to get into Coraline's flat of Miss Spink and Miss Forcible and attacks his side. The next day Coraline came to visit the old be playing out beyond theold tennis court, To be honest, I'm not sure how it heard what don't have ears, but the point is, it secretly be alone. It arrives to find a tea party with Coraline's the center. When it went to go steal the key, it realized at all, it was stretched over the top of an into its depths before Coraline sealed the It's unclear if a creature like The Beldam long it would survive until the next person It seems reasonable that if it did survive, spider, but it's unlikely that anyone would The Beldam is mysterious but horrifying creature. It reminds me a lot of the creature from IT, final form as a spider to its need to feed Another Stephen King connection relates to The actress who plays the young version of and she, similarly to the Beldam in Coraline, of her victim before revealing her true nasty This two-faced personality is yet another to make the film version of Coraline. The faces of each character had to be replaced and over 15,000 faces were used. If you want to learn all the secrets hidden the left, and don't forget to use my link over on Audible. and if you love horror, remember every week, ring that. deathbell for notifications, and I'll see you Assuming we both survive.