- Today we're gonna take a look at this. It's the new Ninja Cafe Luxe. A $499 all-singing, It does everything. It does espresso with It does quad shots, it It does cold foam, it does filter coffee, it does cold brew, of a sort. Is there anything it can't do? Oh yes, but we'll get to that. As always, thanks to the we bought this at full price, and shipped it over here to the UK. What we're gonna start with is the kind of core functionality of the machine in terms of actually making Because you could argue quite convincingly that something about this machine makes it a bit of a game-changer. That's gonna be a word you can see a lot as well as kinda Swiss army That's what you're gonna see a lot. But there genuinely is some and I hope quite influential stuff in this that we're gonna get into. Now, one quick thing before we dive into much more important stuff, I just have to comment I have to be honest, it's not to my taste. I find this not a beautiful thing that I would particularly want out on show dominating my kitchen. You may feel differently and that's okay. We just have different and actually the feel of it, it is pretty plasticky for the most part. It feels empty, relatively lightweight. it doesn't feel substantial. $499 might seem like both a and also not that much all the stuff you're But either way, it's a I would've hoped to have The coffee's more important. And to do so, I need to kind of this machine. I don't know about you, when I was really little, sometimes they would put the the little guardrails so that you couldn't bowl a gutter ball. That's what this machine is trying to do. It's trying to put up guardrails to stop you making terrible espresso. It has what it calls And if you look at the front panel here, you have a digital display showing you where your and where it recommends your And that will change based That's really interesting. Now I reset this back to First thing, hopper, removable little trap at the bottom of it. Nice, well done. This It holds about 350 grams or 12 of your American ounces of coffee, which I think is a good size of coffee. In making and designing this machine, the engineers have made a and sometimes strange choices, and as I take the portafilter It's completely custom in so you know not much than we yet for this. Inside, looks actually a So it's only about that It's not all the way to the bottom. That's the quad basket that which you need to make or to make filter coffee. I have to say, it feels wrong. If you're used to a normal portafilter, the weighting feels weird and strange. It looks weird and strange Now to use this in the grinder, first you must get your very conveniently, right How nice. See that just goes on top. Slide it in here, and this is That just zeroed out a weighing scale because this thing grinds by weight. It grinds by weight, which is fascinating, something you do not see in a lower end, lower price point kind of thing. Now initially I was like, &quot;Is Because there's loads of ways it could be using a weighing scale and Four grams of Blu Tack. So you see when I push go it'll produce 17.5 grams of coffee. And I found that if I white tack on the side of this thing here, it underdosed by about during the grinding process. So it genuinely is grinding by weight. (machine beeps and grinds) And so what we'll get is about 17.5 grams. Give or take up to half a gram but often less so it's Now another fascinating thing, you might begin to hear this When you turn it on, it does not begin to heat its thermoblock. It only does that after you grind. Kind of cool. It's kinda nice. You know, it's not wasting but it's beginning now to get That's good. We need to tamp this. Oh, here's your tamper. How nice. Now this is a little to help you get the quote You sort of have to tamp But in theory, this should force you to tamper the correct pressure. Should be preventing mistakes Then we lock it in. Now it's a bit of a long drop there 'cause I might want a bigger cup. So what I can do take my little plate and put it at an appropriate height Now I don't anticipate 'cause this is the first has seen this coffee. What should happen is it should brew and then make a recommendation based on how that brew went. (machine beeps) There is a little bit of a like, it takes a while to get going. It does also pre-infuse (machine sounds) Little quick and you'd say, &quot;Well probably the grind's too coarse,&quot; and this thing would agree. It says, &quot;Okay, that was grind setting 12, take us down to grind setting 8.&quot; And there's another nice I have to put my funnel back and I have to put this in again for this sort of feature to work. It will very quickly, each time I go finer to prevent So if I go - (motor staccato with adjustments) Look at that, and it will have dosed out just a little which is good and bad. One, it's clearing the burrs it's not grinding enough to really purge between one of my first flaws here. One of the things that can easily happen with humans dialing in coffee any sort of retained coffee that is still the previous grind setting If I just grind now I'll but mostly grind setting 8. And that portion of 12 or two or three or four. But it might be enough for the overall flow still to be too fast. And even if eight was correct, it would look like the flow was too fast and it might say, &quot;Oh, go to seven.&quot; But then you go to seven and 'cause you need it to be at eight. And so without purging, it's quite easy to sort of chase the grind setting around. And as a small complaint, it took me forever to find It's quite obvious once you know it. If you push and hold the grind button, just hold it down, it will purge. What you can't do is which is take a dose out like a full dose, throw that away, a bit wasteful, because when you go and it just won't give you one 'cause it thinks it's &quot;Get on with the brewing process. I'm not giving you more So, slightly frustrating. You can override that if you turn the machine on and off again. (machine grinding) Now that should be enough. You don't need to purge a lot but you do need to purge some. So let's repeat the whole process and see what the recommendations are in terms of grind setting. Did it guess well? (machine grinding) (machine beeps and brews) Still a little quick I would The machine agrees! So we need to go four finer. I did say it had that nice If I just go four finer It'll only do that if the to catch the ground coffee coming out, which to me seems like a bit of a mistake. If I've gone from the coarser and just forgotten to have theoretically, that's seems to have happen. This does collect ground coffee anyway. Bits that are retained You are gonna get some mess. I feel like it just and accept there's gonna whether there's a And if it annoys me, it'll and get something in the way. One thing that is also knock out clean 'cause and how cleanly a puck to how much space it has to So it's never gonna and give you the kind of that you don't want, so that's a bit nice. (knocking out puck) I would still wanna give 'cause there's, you know, still stuff you don't want in there. (machine grinding) It's even telling me to tamp. (machine brewing sounds) Well, what do you think, The machine does not I might have wanted to go I feel like it's important to understand that I think the goal of barista It's gonna prevent you How is the espresso? Like fine. Yeah, it's a touch sour, It's not balanced, it doesn't To be fair to it, I will and try and pull what you know, the best shot it can. What I will say, listen to this grind and you'll hear one of my (machine beeps and grinds) That motor is clearly at these finer grind settings with sort of the lighter end of medium. That is a point of failure in any kind of product like this. And so listening to that does about longevity of this (machine beeps and brews) Not bad, don't feel like on extraction here, it's It's decent texture. It can be a little bit It's set up for probably a darker, they're not substantially but it doesn't do a bad job. For a kind of point of comparison, I dialed in this machine which is about a $200 grinder, The Opus made a better tasting And actually we threw, you know, coffee into a particle size Not very much in it, not put the charts up and This thing does produce Could be better but not that bad. Before I get into the quad shot, I just need to talk about something that drives me up the It makes me irate. This portafilter, this has two spouts at the bottom of it here. It's not a naked, you can't have it or maybe you can get a but this is a two-spouted Why would you have two Well, you might wanna put I mean, you might be pulling You might want an espresso That might be what you're They've given me two spouts. Let's make two single espressos. (machine beeps) Now we have one espresso cup (cup clinks) (cup clinks) Gotta get the jug out of the way. (milk pitcher clinks on steam wand ) That's not right. I can't take two espresso (machine beeps) (machine brews) Why have you given me two spouts? Just give me one spout! Don't lie to me! Just give me one spout. If I can only put one cup These are two small espresso cups. What if I wanted a espresso I don't get it. Interesting to note has come to agree with my So it's moved its opinion to 3. (laughs) Now obviously it was a narrower and taller. Taller so you can get Narrower to not take up too But they've also made a couple space on the counter They've said we need to put some stuff on the side of the machine here, right? So actually if you wanna and access it, you can't any closer than say that without getting the tamper So it demands an extra, what like, 10 centimeters on this side. Also, it's got a little It's where my quad basket is. But again, it means I have on the side of this machine too. So in terms of counter it actually demands Could they not have hidden these things or sorry, these things and given me a bit of width ('cause they're gonna so at least I can use the two spout Look, we're into a nitpicking These baskets come out relatively But you'll see on the sides of them here, they've got these different which means you can only put The good thing is, I guess this one, this one says double here on it and so when you put it in correctly, the double is facing you. You'd think this would 'Cause it's the quad, no it's With this little wheel, we can start to work We could say let's do a quad. Now it's gonna say, &quot;Wait a minute, you can't pull a quad with that you would do for like a normal shot. Let's get this up to number 18.&quot; (machine grinds and beeps) I will say that the tamping experience for the quad has been less nice. Feels like I can't actually before I hit the kind (machine brewing) Look at all that creamy, creamy crema. So it does this at the end of a shot. It kind of faffs around. It seems to take a long You can see it still thinks it's brewing even though nothing's happening. I don't really know what's going on. (machine gurgles &amp; releases steam) (machine beeps) I just pumped a little That water ends up in I don't know, I guess or resetting the temperature I don't really know what's going on there. Again, it felt the shot was It's made a grind recommendation. The process begins again and for a coffee, it will remember as you jump between the different settings. I'm not gonna drink this one but in terms of other quad shots, they're kind of, again, very okay. I don't think you're gonna brewing through a very tall column. It will be convenient but it won't be the best a properly pulled double Now you might have spotted this little float popping There's a float in the drip but this thing started empty. So we've made what like six, and the drip tray's full. This is a gripe for me. The drip tray is reasonably large but actually this machine just dumps loads of water into the drip tray. Every time you finish a shot, it seems to purge water It means that if you are with filtered water, it's your nice water at a relatively high rate compared to how many So let's make a milk drink here. I'm gonna need my jug for that. Now they've gone with a to say the Breville This has a little whisking attachment at the bottom of the pitcher. This can come out for cleaning. It also means you can with this machine. Now what it's gonna do with a little magnet underneath to create a vortex when Usually, you do that with the steam wand. This doesn't and it wants It's quite simple to use We'll set it up for, let's say, dairy milk, temperature is where we set ours to low. The steam seems to be relatively So it's not kind of Let's get on with it. Be right back, making coffee sandcastles! (machine brewing) Let's give it a little purge. Into the purge hole. And away we go. (machine beeps twice &amp; wand steams) You done? (machine releases steams) Milk texture, I would say pretty good. Not the best milk I've ever had but significantly better a cafe where someone hasn't or your first few goes We have to talk about the cold brew. You've got a couple of options here. You've got cold pressed, which is a kind of espresso type thing and you've got cold brew a kind of more traditional It's not cold brew, I guess 'cause it's not hot, but you when it's lukewarm. What appears to come out So it's not cold, it's not Heating up allows for and a similar-ish profile and they presume you're gonna drink it over ice rather than just like a straight shot. Let's drink a straight shot of it though. (coffee drips into cup) We'll put that total brew time from sort of go till beep on screen just so you know how How does it taste? Tepid, lukewarm. Texture is one of those kind of temperature proof to some extent and lower temp shots I don't get it, I don't really get it. You could do this yourself by just making espresso I know that I should and having a nice cold experience. I guess it does have which is the kind of target for And my experience with the is similar, pretty long, pretty slow, and kind of underwhelming to be honest. Important caveat, personally, I'm not a I like cold coffee, but I and then iced to be cold. Now we need to talk about So on our menu, we can jump to classic and at the bottom 8, 10, 12, whatever We'll brew an eight. Now the recommended grind setting jumps all the way up to 25 the luxe basket, the quad shot basket. (machine grinds and beeps) That was quick, wasn't it? Because what it produced was very, very coarsely ground coffee. There are substantial This is shockingly coarse to me to brew, what, like eight Actually we put some of this and shockingly, 60% by was above 1500 microns, That's just very big pieces when let's say we're brewing a two cup V60, most of the pieces might So what we'll do just for the grind size that we and I'll put this next to on a macro lens, just how coarse this is. Now one of the things we can do with coffee is we can measure the strength of the liquid of the ground coffee we And that's really useful We did that a lot with this. Now people who complain it's just testing the not the quality of extraction. And this is the kind of machine that kind of proves them right. Typically, we're looking of the ground coffee to be If you've got 20 grams of coffee in here, then you want 3.6 to say 4.4 in the water, drinkable. This brew, these kind of has actually been around 19% extraction, 18.5% to 19%, which is The taste, however, It's not very nice. It like a bunch of that very fine particles that and a bunch of that has come from the very, very, very large pieces that haven't properly extracted. And so you get the sour bitter combo. And so on average, the extraction is good, but actually the extraction is quite bad. And what I've also seen, you where it looks like channeling physically may have occurred I mean, just look at how coarse that is. Your first thought might which is okay, okay, let's We know that if we grind it's not a total car What if we take it from say 25, well, what if we take it down to say 20? And it was at this point that was just (imitates head exploding). I've changed the grind on The reason that grind by weight is useful is because if you grind by for a fixed time, the And what I noticed is that when I got less coffee. This kind of implies that it's almost like two worked on the same product and were like, &quot;Hey, let's just grind by time. Grinding by weight will because at coarser grind settings, the flow will be really fast and so we'll probably miss So let's just use time.&quot; The problem is that, yeah, reduction in dose because and yet, you built this (machine brews) It doesn't look well brewed. As for the taste, way over extracted now, like, even just going to 20, It's still unbalanced but the ones I did in came out like 23.5% extraction, which for a grinder of this quality is too high a number for good taste. Let's just keep it simple like that. It's a super bitter cup. It's Ultimately, whatever I did dialing it in correctly or Oh, and also this does and actually kind of rather than just a towel cleaning, which is, again, kind of annoying. For me, the filter coffee from this is extremely flawed and filter coffee from the cheapest bottom end like drip coffee maker that I'd probably choose the drip coffee maker. It's paper filtered, which will help. And actually probably just as a brewer, better suited to brewing filter coffee. I've seen a lot of reviews for this thing talk about the target audience for it. And so I want to talk a bit more explicitly. First thing, the target audience has $500 to spend on a coffee setup, which is not an insignificant it's a decent spend. There is a caveat that a kind of consumer device You know, these days for products you may be lucky to get more out of it, but the concern is you won't. And to be blunt, Ninja have on build quality and longevity This is their first coffee machine. I have no idea how it's gonna perform in terms of its own longevity, but it would be part of my mind like, &quot;Will I be happy if this Now you can do the calculation and say, &quot;If I make two drinks a day and don't buy them from a cafe, am I in, in terms of budget, am I winning?&quot; And yeah, you probably are. But the idea that it E-waste of the world, I just, I'm not very comfortable with it. I think if you're gonna you want something with Two, I think that the requirement and you like the idea of making coffee. You don't want a push and go experience, you want to get involved a little bit. The tech in this is exciting for me. That's the root of this being Sage Breville have the kind of grind assist technology but it's three times I think it's certainly To have the barista The idea that you're not is great, you're gonna you're gonna get pretty good espresso as long as you follow the guidance and put pretty good coffee into it. You know, making espresso and did it flow too fast, well That's not complicated and I I like that it's out there. I wanna see more companies doing this and helping people make I've nothing but praise for even if the window of good is The idea that this has to The decision to cram a crammed and cramped machine to work on. I think the ergonomics I hope it has longevity but most of this but not all of And if that was a slightly but it lasted longer, that would be a very It's a product that I want to succeed so that it progresses and evolves. And I hope that the people Because I think you could, you know, if you're just making espresso milk drink, you could have a pretty and find life pretty easy, That for me is great. This... maddeningly close. But now I wanna hear from you because by now, a bunch of If you have one of these, how is it going? Have your frustrations matched mine? Have you found different Have you had better experiences than me? Do you, if you're a cold brew drinker, really like the cold I do genuinely wanna know your experiences, your impressions. Please share them with all of But for now, I will say thank and I hope you have a great day.