Hi, Dr. Bernard here. Cough syrup is for coughs. It's not worth messing with this stuff because A TikToker Chugged 1 Liter of Cough Syrup Brain. BW is a 35 year old man, presenting to the His mother Gina, tells the admitting nurse and blue in the face. He had an empty styrofoam Paramedics tried to give him an antidote for had to give it 3 times before he responded. You see, BW was a TikToker who played in a party. The host was serving drinks in tall prescription strength cough syrup. This mix in Houston, and well known to do terrible with this. It's just some candy and soda Immediately after finishing his first cup, life that night. Whatever was in that cup, party, could make that happen. BW's friends weight' because he only needed to drink to have the same effect. About a year ago, BW started making TikTok band. But then, he'd start drinking his the styrofoam cups. They knew what was going this.. One day, BW didn't have any lean left. This start with a runny nose. A voice in his head he could feel his brain start pounding against His stomach would knot up, and a tinge in his cheeks would would start to come up, And then the dark is a funny TikTok meme, he thought. And even need more syrup, just to feel normal again. Three weeks ago, BW caught pneumonia. The BW didn't say anything about his purple misusing it, look like regular people. The to ask for some prescription cough syrup, available over the counter. At home now, BW washed down his antibiotics antibiotics together, then I'm never going BW found that taking those antibiotics together It was like he was drinking his really drinking any more than normal. Immediately after chugging a big cup of drink, could feel the rush as the minutes passed. he was upright, but he wasn't. He walked But then he felt like he was floating himself on the sides of his eyes. He sat on the toilet, off. And as the minutes passed, BW stops breathing. responsive, not breathing, cold and blue in to the emergency room where we are now. At examination, doctors knew this was a case him on the floor with a styrofoam cup in his do much about it over the years. Exactly how matter. His heart had stopped in the ambulance. breathing for minutes. His pupils were like doctors exactly what they need to know. The cough syrup in lean, or purple drank is and codeine. Promethazine is an allergy medicine. amounts, it blocks rest and digest signals because that interplays with codeine. You see, the thing about codeine is that by the liver breaks it down, it immediately becomes Morphine is a natural product. It's from has a mix of morphine and codeine together, Morphine is an actual medicine used in hospitals. lot of other things to the body. A thousand diarrhea, because morphine slows down the gives the bowel time to reabsorb water to have loose stools and has morphine in their too much water from the stools and harden BW had. In the lungs, morphine interacts with the that's why codeine is in cough syrup. But this time. He stopped breathing because morphine When morphine is bound in to nerves that sense why it's a pain reliever. Actually, we haven't pain than opioids. But when enough morphine chemicals to deliver a rush of euphoria. Which that prevent the breakdown of those feel good morphine binds in to the brain stem, which the blood, your brain stem will tell the body it. But BW's brain stem can't tell the in his cough syrup was turned into morphine telling his body to breathe. BW was transferred in to the intensive care beating, there's always a chance that not period of time. The longer time, the greater was permanent damage. A radiograph of his head, shows that parts When he regained consciousness in the ICU, hear out of his left ear. All of this happening for several minutes, but something's wrong. Codeine, in most people, is only about 10% least 10 times the amount of codeine to have only supposed to be treating cough here with dose. But the thing about codeine - promethazine drink it for the first time say they don't afterwards. It's almost like it's not group of people will become habitual users tell you that it ruined their life because they can't function. So why is there a difference? and morphine isn't even as strong as some to BW? This brings us back to the liver. One part But a different part, uses codeine to make So this explains why codeine is only 10% potency Well, the liver is the detox center of your cleanses because you have a liver. Detoxing, make them more stable. Stable means that it Because if they react, that means it could means simple. Breaking parts off, makes things In the top case done by one part of the liver, other part of the liver, it's norcordeine. because these rings in nature are generally But if BW chugging almost a liter of syrup then how did he suddenly stop breathing? How syrup than normal? Well, we know different people are built differently. of coffee at midnight at be sound asleep by a sip of coffee at lunchtime, and be wired handle caffeine no problem, but your friend of differences in our genes and these variations Do you remember that some people aren't have a genetic mutation that makes one part codeine never gets broken down to morphine inactivated. If codeine never becomes morphine syrup doesn't work in these people. And if someone has mutations that don't the opposite mutation that would break a lot people would turn the all of the codeine to it's closer to 100%. Do you remember that Well, if you convert most of the codeine to much to get the same effect. This could be than everyone else. But if that's the case, had happened when he presented to the emergency You see, the antibiotics that BW took for part of the liver that inactivates codeine. part of the liver, and doesn't let anything codeine to morphine than other people, and to never activate codeine at all is blocked, on TikTok was converted to morphine, flooding than what he was used to. He was feeling good occupied his liver, more and more morphine and parts of his brain became permanently In the hospital, BW was transferred in to Doctors would need to refer him to rehab and was coming to an end, as he was discharged As the days passed, BW tried to cope. All body learn and adapt. If more morphine was to bind in to pain nerves to block the signal, of those structures, for more morphine to and dependence develops, manifesting as withdrawal is no more syrup available, no more faster, so the bile emerges from both ends. big pain signals push their way through, making And after losing part of his hearing, BW still were clouded everyday with feelings of doom. speech was still slurred, even though his ignore the rehab referral. He ignored any of what they were going to do to him. One of his friends had suggested that BW start stools called loperamide. This thing, he said, And so BW tried his own rehab. At first, he feel great, but it was still better than nothing. he got to a point where he didn't feel great, didn't care that he needed 5 boxes each was smashing up against his skull. So that huddled over on the floor. up with him too. One day, BW's mom came back from work. She son again, on the floor, cold, pale and unresponsive, the emergency room again. At examination this time, BW had an abnormal rhythm, only for it become abnormal again. he took. His heart starts shaking in place, stops. Doctors rush in to give him CPR, to What is loperamide? And why did it stop his Do you remember those Arabic doctors treating not the best medicine for that, given it can loose stools without the habit forming quality the gut that morphine would. But it only binds of 5 boxes, it behaves a little different. One half of the loperamide molecule, looks in rehab for opioid withdrawal. So that's treat withdrawal too. I wouldn't do this, large amounts like multiple boxes of it to resists this by pumping loperamide back out. pumps would get overwhelmed, and loperamide the brain to cause the same effect. But the like one part of an anti-psychotic medicine right now what that means in the brain. What is also shaped like a heart rhythm medicine. amounts, and it blocks electrical conduction what happened to BW. After 25 minutes of CPR, the code was called. Purple Drank, Lean, Syrup, or Texas Tea, whatever the name is, don't do it. Even though it's with enjoyment, cutesy fun time-- it's will cause significant suffering. It'll you behave, and many people who are deep in become. Maybe some do realize it, and one in fighting it. You see this happen to even no different than anyone else. It's not do the loperamide either, because it's way more risk than benefit, just like it was for BW. Thanks for watching. Take care of yourself.