The Jewish people have always had Their Torah recounts tales of men accumulating fortunes When God took his people out of Egypt, and revealed to them secrets, Throughout the ages, the world could not help but admire the Admittedly, to hatred and became an excuse Their greatest critics will say that they control the banks, the media Is it all just a coincidence? There is no denying that this ancient to the accumulation of riches Alas! What is that great secret? In God we test I've always been fascinated with money. Even since I was a kid. I remember that I had this picture book instead of putting photos, $5 bills, $10 bills. As I grew up, I would read any business And I'd also listen to any positive I guess you could say I've What is their secret There is a secret to wealth that the Jewish people have It was hidden inside of the Bible and was not ready to come out until this You see, we're all ruled by one power, by one force, by one Creator, And when we know how to apply that to our lives, we're able to unleash wealth The Jewish secret to wealth is Tzedakah The big, big, big key is the Tzedakah. Giving the money actually Because I prioritize God prioritizes me. The key secret is my charity that I give. Tzedakah plays an intricate role in my everyday life and decisions Si quieres ganar, tienes que dar (If you want to earn, you need to give) Generous people are Zohar says, open up for me a vessel like the eye of a needle, and I'll Forget what you think is possible Now, this goes against all logic. According to simple math. If a person has ten of something and they take one and give it away, Imagine a pie that you have Someone gives you a beautiful apple pie that you love, but that's the amount the year that you worked hard for, You've got receivables and payables We're sweating for our money, The idea of giving away one or two slices away Hashem has ways to give you What we're talking about here We are talking about a secret code that the Creator of the universe himself We're not talking about karma, that if No! We're talking about When God sees that a Jew is generous with charity, He is generous with him. Instead of four times, he receives five times the amount - and many times more. Along with the abundance of good which he receives from above, he is also blessed with the success of using it for only good things, amidst health and joy, for purposes of Torah and Judaism, with joy and gladness. When I came home from yeshiva, The Rabbi from my synagogue came, and he asked for a pledge He asked me for $18,000, And that's what I owed So I gladly said yes. By the end of the year, didn't think too much about it. That next and I went to go start my own Right before Rosh Hashana, the Rabbi came to my new office And when he walked into the room, He was used to seeing me in a big fancy office with a big mahogany And that year he walked in and I was alone in a dingy office sitting on a $10 Walmart That year I was expecting He sits down at the table and he says &quot;This year I'm not going to ask you for 18,000, but this year I went into a trance. The Rabbi froze in front of me. It was just me, myself and God. And at first I was angry. I was saying to myself, He knows that I'm starting fresh. He knows how hard it is. How could he ask such a big ask? But then I thought to myself, if this is all true, then God is When it comes to giving charity, there should be no calculations. Don't rely on what you think is possible, and even on your own good heartedness. The Torah calls it &quot;the generosity of your hand,&quot; given immediately, without limitation. I came out of the trance. One single tear ran down my cheek, Okay... I said it's up to God. It's not my problem. I'm going to do my best But at the end of the day, My father-in-law, the Rebbe, said that when a Jew commits to give an amount which seems totally unfeasible from a financial perspective, God opens a new conduit for him to help him fulfill his good resolution amid joy and gladness - which means that he is given several times more, in order to be able to give that amount happily. That year in business, It was an incredible year, The type of growth that I And by the end of that year, I was able to fulfill every single It was hidden So I started to go on a search to find where exactly the source for this concept So I came across the standard line in Torah that everybody knows, Asher tis'asher. which means that when a person gives charity, he becomes wealthy. Ties to become wealthy. So I continued to learn and study more, and I came across the magic phrase I'm forever and is about And the secret hidden line is And it goes like this: Ubechanuni Na Bazos. Ubechanuni Na Bazos God says with regard to charity, &quot;Test Me with this.&quot; Even though, in general, we are not permitted to &quot;test&quot; God, the exception, as cited in the Code of jewish law, in the section Yoreh De'ah, in the beginning of Laws of Charity, is with regards to charity. Not only are we permitted to test Him, but God actually challenges us, &quot;Test me&quot;. The next year, when the rabbi came and asked for $50,000, And the year after that, Now, that was really pushing myself. What was I going to do, say no? Would you believe that again? I tested God, and he opened up new channels, And I had made more in that year when I gave $100,000 than I had And I also had enough left over. By then I was so convinced when it came to charity that there's no difference for me and letting it fall by gravity and giving There's no difference. There are others As I started documenting and talking more about my experience with charity, from all around the world, telling me about their stories, So the first time that we gave charity in a way that I would describe as making went to a class at Chabad They were hosting We were super inspired. He spoke about a number of things, one of the things being giving We walked up to Rabbi Jacobson. We said, Rabbi, your message is fantastic. It's powerful, and it needs Why don't you start a website, an online And I had no idea what the financial The dollar amount was tens of thousands of I was extremely uncomfortable. Eda was uncomfortable. But we felt like this is really important. Hundreds of thousands of people could potentially be learning And we did it. Every year we would give more, and we were &quot;testing&quot; Hashem every year, When you give, with no expectation of getting And what you get after almost With covid, everyone was cash tied. I was especially cash tied. I was coming out of Sabbatical in Israel and I decided to put a donation and it was And less than a year later, I closed probably the biggest cash The fact that God had but also that he rewarded me, so to speak, I had a friend came up to me, told me, Do something, calculate 20%. And I'm like: Are you crazy? How can I give 20%? Just do it. You know If you want to continue to be a guy But if you want to go strong, it's a 20%. After that day, I like what he said, I cannot explain how that opened up I did find myself at a point where I had gotten into divorce, and now I was It became a struggle to give as Even if it was kind of a challenge, I always benefited on the flip side, or I would have the opportunity So I always found that even in giving, It was our first Shabbat, And we're at Kiddush and I meet this guy and I'm talking to him, and Rabbi Corn comes over and he's pouring make sure that this guy gives And I laughed it off. What am I going to do? So I decided to joke. Whatever you give, I'll match. I had no clue how much he had given. So it turns out that he had That was five times more than What am I going to say? I just hoped and prayed that I'll Somehow, with God's incredible blessing, the year after, I gave at least The thing I realized at that time that still sticks with me is we're just as a channel for God to get it People often ask me, So yes, I do a ton of networking. I work really hard but the key I really feel that has And things that don't even make Like it's beyond comprehension. I've been in many businesses, Our last business has been We made sure that everything that came in, And I believe that it's been successful giving Charity. My story with charity I was at the grave site of the I had a big project that I was And I didn't see a path to getting And I told for the Rabbi that if I'm going to get it, I will donate my charity Five to six days later and this is already after months of back and forth, It was signed on my terms and everything This was like a very Just five, six days after promising Charity, all of a sudden, A close friend of mine reached out to me He lives across the country. His parents have no money, He needs help. So I was like, sure, whatever he needs, And I supported him for the entire year. And it came to a point at the end of the I needed that money to get there. I was short I was short $5,000. I went to a friend of mine, I'm like, Within three days, I had 5000 plus plenty of extra to get me And it was just so clear to me that that God gave right back to me. Our minds are so small, and it's only And once we do that, Hashem says, But in your mind, if you say no, Hashem is bigger, He's greater, You'll see. Is it enough There's a man in my synagogue And I asked him if he could stand up and talk about the blessings But he told me, Berel, I can't because I And this really bothered me because I'm So how could it be that he doesn't see it? And I went home and I thought about it he's not seeing the blessings from his charity He only gives $10,000, which means that God only has to give him The Source of life, God. So God is assuring us that if we give a fifth of our earnings to provide for those whom He must sustain, then He will multiply it four times, and it &quot;shall be yours&quot;. This is written in holy books. So if he gave $20,000, If he gave $40,000, You see, the problem with Charity and the way we've been looking most people look at Charity They say to themselves, if I made $100,000 The problem is, if a person makes $100,000 after insurance, and after a vacation, He might even be in debt. He doesn't even have $10,000 So he's not even doing that bare minimum. Here came the Lubavitcher Rebbe and changed everything and flipped it Instead of looking backwards at what you made to determine what you owe to Charity, make a pledge and decide how much money we And based on how much our pledge is, &quot;God attaches a good thought to action.&quot; When a Jew decides to do something positive, even if it seems beyond his means, and even if it is truly beyond his means - nontheless, because he resolved, despite his limitations, to do a favor for another Jew, although the other is wealthy, he resolves to do the favor with self-sacrifice, we are assured that God will help him honor his pledge. I tested God And I won After learning all this last year when I went to go make my pledge for Charity, At the end of the day, a lot of people think that it says you can if you read it properly, it says, test me It's a Mitzvah to test God with Charity. is with regards to Charity. but God actually challenges us, &quot;Test me!&quot; So this year, instead of going up by 18,000 and see if this thing is I pledge a quarter of a million dollars. And what do you think happened? True to His word, a new business was formed : my executive the quarter million dollar pledge, With plenty left over that I was able Just goes to show, when you test God in Charity, you're going Your turn I now want to give you the exact method exactly where you are Step one, you make a pledge to institutions that the Now, disclaimer the pledge that you make and it should be within the world the pledge should be something that pushes Step two is you write a document to the institutions that you're pledging that you're going to be And then step three is, every single month you send a check My personal favorite is writing postdated checks and giving them So I take myself out of it. And what you are about to do is testing God with the greatest Mitzvah And it says that nothing brings the Messiah, the Mashiach, Once you test God and once you see you will never be able to go And when you do see those blessings, about this incredible Mitzvah In God we test Subtitles : HIVI Productions (en.hivi.fr) Translator : Liora Dvash