(clicking) (dramatic music) - So I played Daggerfall and started playing all But Arena at the time, I that cover's so goofy, I don't - You know, after we finished the whole entire company went and we would all package the and that was sort of how (whooshing) (game character grunting) - A girl, we've got a daughter, Catherine! (radroaches chittering) - Ow, that hurts! - We had to create gun something this company hadn't done since the Terminator games And we knew with gun and that meant designers - But I didn't wanna tell him, &quot;Yeah, I'm actually &quot;so I can blow it up in a video game,&quot; which is exactly what I was about to do. - We have a lot of takes &quot;War never changes,&quot; in many, many ways. - [Game Narrator] War, war never changes. (gun firing) (beeping) (raider yelping) (guns firing) - Hello friends and welcome home of Bethesda Game Studios, creators of the Elder Scrolls series and proud adoptive parents If you've watched our you know we like to travel to developers and interview them about but until now we've to talk to a team while the That's why we're here, behind Fallout 76, to dive and find out about the they encountered during To do this we spent over interviewing everyone we to animation, QA, marketing and more. All to try and paint a picture of how Bethesda Game So naturally, that also Many of the folks working have credits on their older games, too. Games like Skyrim, Fallout 3, Oblivion, Morrowind and even Arena. Games that have each, in their own way, contributed to the story and their plans for the future. But before we dive into the we've decided to spend We've got quite a lot of but as it turns out, a lot of this rather unsuspecting-looking (mystical music) - I had gotten Wayne Gretzky from my then girlfriend, And I looked at the address on the box and it said Bethesda &quot;Oh these guys, they're doing so I said I'll just drive by the office. And I went to William this office was on my way, and this is the same building. So I remember, it was must've been '93, and I drove and just, I knocked on the door, I came in, but most people weren't and someone kinda met like, And I was like, &quot;I love your games, &quot;I wanna work here one day.&quot; And when there was an &quot;Hey, we have something,&quot; and I jumped, this is where I wanted to be. - [Interviewer] How big - Oh! 20-some people? The development staff was maybe 12. And so this is my 25th Same building, right that's where I came in. - [Danny] The original Bethesda Softworks was founded in 1986 by entrepreneur and software developer Christopher Weaver. Named after the town of the studio developed and Everything from football game Gridiron to some early hockey games and even some Terminator spin-offs. One of Todd's first responsibilities was to port a CD-ROM version that had been made internally. Ted Peterson, Julian were spearheading the project, the first-person dungeon and evolve it using more That game had been as an arena combat game but quickly grew into something much, much larger. (tense classical music) - I think I found out about it because I worked at a with a friend of mine in Houston, so we were just employees on the floor. I'm trying to think why in the first place because follow RPGs or read Dragon - [Interviewer] (chuckling) Right. - Maybe it was just the box art, I'm sure that was part of it. There's a lot of literature I don't know if the term open but how it's this limitless thing and you can do this and you can do that and that sounded great to me, I always wanna just make my own story. And in playing it and I don't think I ever did I left that to some other hero. No, I just wanna buy a house and chill, that's all I wanna do. Houses were really expensive in that game, I remember that too. - I saw Arena in the computer game store and looked at the cover and I was like, &quot;There is no chance I'm buying that game.&quot; I don't know if we should So I played Daggerfall and started playing all but Arena at the time I was like, &quot;Oh, I don't know, that cover's so goofy, &quot;I don't think I could get into that.&quot; - [Interviewer] It's a strong - It was, it was. - [Interviewer] Maybe - It didn't. (both laughing) - It has massive ambition yet is very, very elegant, in my opinion. It knows what it is. It will feel really simplistic but in its day, it had massive scope. It gave you the feeling, of, &quot;This world, I can do whatever I want, &quot;I can go wherever I want,&quot; and that the things you found, &quot;I found this, only I did, and, like, it has the time warp. - [Danny] By the time Todd had finished his work on the CD-ROM port of Arena, the Elder Scrolls team was so Todd was made producer You have to understand there were almost as many Terminator games as there were people living on earth. In fact, Bethesda had made But this Terminator game Terminator: Future Shock was It had a height map, it and the game took place set in post-apocalyptic cities. Good design practice, as it turns out. About a half dozen people on Future Shock and as and Daggerfall was going through many of that team went to help (adventurous music) - Because of the state of the project, I did half the levels as well, I did the sound effects for Daggerfall, so anything you hear in like, yelping, or all the - [Interviewer] Just in a microphone? - Yes. (interviewer chuckling) - At the time it just than a lot of other RPGs oddly enough it wasn't the the story of Daggerfall is kind of thin, it was more about your character and the world you're exploring. All these different how you leveled up, through actions not just experience points, it was just a really different kinda - The memory I really because you start off in a dungeon which I thought was always to kind of keep you walled in, don't show you everything at once. You really get used to that, that darkness and the corridors, you get taught about the I didn't realize it at the Only give you a few tools, and once you've mastered like in Karate Kid, then, okay, now we'll show you the So when you finally do make which is not easy to do you know, you get this whole big reveal and the music changes for the first time, and suddenly it's all these possibilities. - If Arena is the world, Daggerfall pushes on the character system. So if you look at the Daggerfall introduces and the way you level up and and you have language and It's a very, very heavy A lot of the world stuff stays the same. And it has a very despite how it might express itself if you go back and play it, about pushing the character - [Interviewer] Before our name bars, can you tell us - Yes, my name is Ashley Chang, I'm the studio director - [Interviewer] All right, you've been here a little while, huh? - I have, I've been here - [Interviewer] Okay! - I was one of two people in the marketing department this is the old-school, mom And the first thing I ever was I was mailing out review - [Interviewer] (chuckling) Okay. - Mailing, mailing them out, by myself, and then calling up all the press going, &quot;Please play this game, Todd and I worked on, I was a very, very little-known game. - [Interviewer] The long-lost - It is! It's an action-adventure game, you should definitely try And back then the company was so small, after we finished Redguard the whole team, the whole entire company, went and we would all package the and that was sort of how - It was a mix of, like, and Tomb Raider had come out, like real action-adventure mash-ups. More had kind of been going, in a Daggerfall mix and and a lot of the Terminator we were gonna do Redguard, I could see where we got like 3D was still coming online, we could make a much more rich world. Like, despite Daggerfall's the detail of the world was Like, I liked the game flow, like this is what we should be doing, I like the character system, but, like, I wanted Ultima-level detail in the world, I wanna break the bread and and I wanna do all these things. And Redguard was a little bit okay, how detailed of So the way we built the world in Redguard is how we built the world in Morrowind, just on a much, much larger scale. The other thing Redguard does at the time, also coming off of Daggerfall, we felt the world was generic, it was very kind of bland-Tolkien. It had backstory and stuff but it didn't have something &quot;Oh, that's a little bit more unique.&quot; But that comes in Redguard and then Morrowind builds on that. Redguard was too safe, it it really should've been a console game, it should've been on the PS2. Redguard did not do very well, it did very, very poorly We made some bad decisions, we made some games that and the company really - [Danny] Despite the success of the earlier Elder Scrolls games, these spinoffs, Battlespire and Redguard, had struggled at retail in a precarious financial position. In an effort to avoid bankruptcy, the organization restructured. A new company was formed, ZeniMax Media, which would act as administrative entity over the games development A few year later, publishing Bethesda Softworks became while the development staff had a new name, Bethesda Game Studios. All these entities would In fact, they still do to the incredible success (epic music) - We needed to do Morrowind, do the game that we're here to do, and it's kind of like, like if this one doesn't I think the failures of the previous games made Morrowind what it was. Because that's where you say, &quot;Well, we just gotta do &quot;and what our audience wants &quot;and we already think &quot;so fuck it, let's just makes the game &quot;that we think we should be making.&quot; - Well, there's a contingent and I actually have met a few even today, saying that it's the best it's the best game we've ever made, and it's been downhill since then. - [Interviewer] (chuckling) Right. - Like, Morrowind's the greatest game, and a lot of it is because of the tone, the flavor, the art the story in that game, very, very unique for its time. - I thin kthe main idea behind Morrowind was stranger in a strange land. You are in an alien world We had a lot of different influences and the concept artist did just crazy, amazing, weird You know, and we borrowed you know, it felt a little bit like, what would Star Wars be if it And then combining the from all these different influences and how they lived in giant and wore bug shells as armor and lived in this, essentially desert, how did that shape who they were? How did it shape how they built things? How did it shape what you It became a mix of a lot of really different and interesting things. A lot of it's based off or just strange thorny roots So it was doing something weird and then playing of the idea of scale, so it's a little bit Imagine taking things like mushrooms and scaling them up as giant trees. How does it feel now to Well, it's pretty cool, I haven't done that So I think things like they make the world feel really different and not like something you've seen before. - Well, we knew we had to do it, I think, let me put it that way. The company really wanted but it was such a, the obviously from the final And the team was only about 40 back then. - Microsoft approached the original Xbox and it was very PC-like, this would be great, we'll have an RPG. The other thing is, you need to go back to RPGs of that time, which are like Final Fantasy and other things. And it is, well, we that a console crowd wants, Can we keep the experience the same? Can we do a console RPG - And a game like Morrowind, the Japanese RPGs were the Final Fantasies, Western RPGs weren't really, you know... - [Interviewer] Cool? (Ashley laughing) - You could say that, but nobody was making them like we would. This is gonna be a this is gonna be an open world, you're gonna be able to like Morrowind's not gonna you can break you game in like, Morrowind literally you're about to break your And we go ahead and let you say yes! We let you say yes we let you that's how open that game is. - It was fantasy, open world, and the idea that you could just sort of very, very unique at the How the NPCs, how they tried any NPC any question, In practice, ah, but the wander around and do whatever And I remember the one of the ruins in that game was just, you, literally, into another world in a way that, I love video games and gaming, but it was so unique to me for its time, it was just amazing. - So Morrowind comes out, than even we, it's beyond what we need, it's a much bigger success it's huge, and it's really huge on Xbox. I believe it became title behind Halo, it crushed for, &quot;Oh my gosh, have So that really made it and as a studio, and that was hey, the console part is huge. - [Interviewer] Right. - The audience that wants this - [Danny] Morrowind, in many ways, is responsible for everything Not only was it adored but it established the creative process through which BGS would The team had good tech, good art, good engine, good storytelling. It was the foundation of a A team that would gain confidence with each project they took on. And though this team was as their parent company, of Morrowind gave them just to go for something even bigger. - Morrowind on is like the You have like the pre-Morrowind, you got the Arena, Daggerfall success, some bad things happen and and it really got, there And then ZeniMax Media is and, &quot;Hey, what do you guys wanna do?&quot; That's the other part that like that business side, to &quot;Hey, what do you need to make Morrowind, &quot;what you really want?&quot; Without that, you know, we probably couldn't have pulled it off. And then so Morrowind on was like the second phase of the company. - You know, we all worked together, we all moved on to Oblivion afterwards which was, again, a big The company, were like, &quot;There's a new generation &quot;we don't know what the spec is, &quot;we're gonna make this big game, &quot;it's gonna be a big AAA &quot;and you're gonna wait (eerie music) (sword clashing) (booming) Actually, that was a very because we were traditionally even though Morrowind was on Xbox. It took us a while to really pivot and it's hard for developers to do this. If you're traditionally a PC developer and you start making console games, like, it takes a different mindset. Oblivion was sort of our learning curve, that was our project to learn how to make games for consoles, how to make games run fast and look good within the constraints that consoles have. - I remember one of the high-level goals, not officially but we had been talking, if Morrowind was the Lord the books, you know, then Oblivion will be the Lord You know, much more visceral, more colorful, more - We were working on it for which was not actually hardware that was not done yet. So anytime you're trying to make a game, you don't know what the game is yet and you don't know what the hardware is, that combination can prove That and then just how do we take a huge, open-ended role-playing game that's traditionally been on PC? They put Morrowind on console, but sort of the next evolution of that, the controls and the feel, and what things do you take out to make it have the most appeal but - It kinda swings more you know, so in Oblivion it's more castles and lots of shiny armor, Like we wanted to do forests, lots of people, they they'll eat, they'll sleep. - [Danny] Oblivion was to something more accessible and it wasn't without a backlash. Some fans of Morrowind saw it as a dumbing down of their favorite RPG. Many elements of the game were simplified. There seemed to be less, less skills, less weapon types, less Having voice acting for every line of dialog meant less speech options. Morrowind was an incredible RPG sandbox but with the dawn of HD graphics, Todd and the team had They wanted a bigger world, They wanted a more simplified interface that would work on consoles. They wanted to bring and that meant paring back. But the team was still to make the Oblivion the wasn't without its challenges. - So the forests for Oblivion We used SpeedTree, we were, I believe, the first video game - [Interviewer] No way! - Yeah, and it worked incredibly But what we ended up doing is we used all the SpeedTree assets and we'd bake 'em out and and we created a procedural So we generated each area and it turned out it wasn't so good. So all the artists then basically did like a terraforming the procedurally-generated and it took two years to do. - [Interviewer] Right. - It was an insane undertaking and we really had to ramp up the team of environmenters to come do that. - Like we knew what we needed to make, we knew the number of this town has how many buildings? How many NPCs? How many interiors? How many exteriors? Like, all the details. So it used to be, well, we and then the artist and the designer would help design it and then you'd have your town. So it was really from that to now it's very much more designed out as far as how big the town is, how many buildings are in The way we designed dungeons, and some of them were more randomized and then we had the Oblivion making dungeons is and it sort of separated there. And then figuring out how we were gonna make all I remember that as a key like, we had our game and our date and we knew what we were we still hadn't quite - [Danny] During this stage at BGS there was no delineation Level designers were also quest designers. And as the game got more complex this was beginning to cause issues. Elements of the game were getting trimmed in an attempt to make and in some cases, to even - So in the shipped game there's an arena in the Imperial City and the original plan an arena in every city and I had done the majority of that work because we realized we need to focus on one to make it better. That was painful, that that was all the scripting work. And it was definitely the It was fun to do all the fighting and fight and become a champion, but I actually really just betting on a fight and watching and finding all the weird bugs with that. Like, I would set it up there would be a nord woman I look at the script they were and, invariably, one and it was supposed to be And I wasn't taking into account some of, like, the racial abilities, so this guy was beating and I didn't, I had to - [Interviewer] The (both laughing) - So for us for Oblivion the biggest thing is scale. Morrowind's actually kind of a small game, and if you actually look it's foggy pretty much right We didn't have LOD, there in Morrowind, so for Oblivion it was, hey, you're in this giant valley, you can see the mountains everywhere, and that's what started the whole, hey, if I can see it, I can that really happened in Oblivion. That initial view when you from character generation and see the water and see we spent a lot of time on, how the water looks, how the hey, welcome to this world, - Elder Scrolls games are There are so many there's magic, there's all that have to interact together. There's cities you can explore - How are you? - There hasn't been a you know what I mean? Everything's still there, - So we started getting into the guards are the best reflection, we started doing this in Oblivion, the guards are the best So they comment on you, they your accomplishments, like, or, like, and it gets really tough with stuff like the Thieves' &quot;Did I see you sneaking - But the voice cast in general other than let's bring folks back from Morrowind who we like. Michael Mack, the voice of - Cast a few more people or change up the cast from before. - And all in all, it's 10 or 11 actors for what I think started out and eventually we had to trim that down to 40, 50 or something Because it physically, at the time, we could not fit it on the disc, it was just too much, something had to go. - I don't see any good options here. - One actor per race, gender, The nords, I think the male nord and the male orc are the same guy, and originally they and we had to combine 'em, whereas now you could just, you know, we could just tack on another it's all down to your on your console or So it's a lot of ground so days and days and days imperial male with Wes - In fact, I always forget his name, but one of our voice actors, I see him like once every two months at the Dunkin Donuts down the street. I swear to God, I always I can never remember his - [Interviewer] And he goes, &quot;Halt!&quot; - And he's great (laughing). And I'm like, next time. (rain falling) (sword clashing) (booming) (game character yelping) - [Danny] Oblivion's was tough on the team. They had doubled in size trying causing them to missed the But this delay probably only contributed to Oblivion's success. By the time the game console players were foaming at the mouth to get their hands on this game. The scale of Oblivion was something that had never been seen And while some of the that the game had been overly simplified, Oblivion struck a chord with gamers in a way that no RPG ever had before. Not only was it a red letter day for the open world console game, but it had tapped into a that had never had its mainstream moment. You could argue the release had helped, or perhaps they had just tapped into the same thing. Oblivion was a costly Four long years and a lot of money went into the development of this game, so they wanted a backup. Something else for the team to work on as Oblivion wound down. Something they could use but perhaps in a different genre. - Looking toward Oblivion, three-and-a-half years, about four years, you realize, this is gonna take a while. You know, there wasn't pressure, but hey, we should probably get 'cause these things take a while, what would you like to make? And we made a list, you post-apocalyptic, we you know, science fiction this, but you never know if we'll make 'em so I don't wanna spoil it. I actually made this logo for it was called Apocalypse Road. It was like a road sign And I had written Fallout, it's Fallout. And they said, &quot;You want Fallout?&quot; Yeah, but that's, you And somebody here knew &quot;I think, you know, they're &quot;they're not using it, we And I was like, &quot;Oh my &quot;If you could get that, I'm tellin' you, &quot;this would be perfect here.&quot; It fits what we do, it's different it would fit with our style of game. And, maybe, it was probably he comes back and says, I remember, I actually got a sticky I can remember it vividly, when I came back said, &quot;Got It was just like, when does that happen? (eerie music) - Yeah, Fallout was incredibly exciting for everyone here because We'd all played the Fallout games before, I think most people here and it was exciting to, hey, we've all been a fantasy group, right? We're makin' fantasy role-playing games. Let's jump in to a post-apocalyptic world, what's that gonna be like? - [Interviewer] You a big - Oh my God, I loved 'em! I think it's genius stuff, you know? All the credit to Tim all those guys who did that game. That's the other thing, why don't you make your own post-apocalyptic thing? I said, well, we could, we but there's this shtick with it, with Vault-Tec and the world, Even though, I know there understandably so, I - If you ever get a chance work on a Fallout game, you can do practically anything in a Fallout game. - [Interviewer] (chuckling) Right. - And just the breadth the breadth of the art direction, I mean, it's unlike anything else. When we got it and we started for me personally, I was excited, I was very, very excited (old patriotic music) - When it was time for for their Fallout game, and they did so for a number of reasons. First of all, thematically, This is the center of there's a pretty good chance that if a nuclear war happens, Second of all, it gave from those earlier Fallout on the west coast of the United States. And third of all, this was 20 where Bethesda's based. This nuclear apocalypse - Well, this is how we make our games. Like, when we first decide on And so we started with a map of D.C. and started mapping out the locations and where everything is gonna be. - So I remember Matt this was after 9-11, he went down to D.C. to take reference photos. So he's walkin' around the lookin' up, lookin' down, takin' photos, and security comes up &quot;You can't do that.&quot; And they stopped him. He was like, &quot;I'm just taking pictures,&quot; and they're like, &quot;No, you're not.&quot; So a lot of the artists did go downtown and being right here it - So I went down and took a lot of photographs of the capitol, which turns out is not a good idea to do, I do not recommend doing this. I asked one of the police officers, &quot;Hey, I make video games, The cop went, &quot;Yeah, take as and while I'm taking I realized I'm taking in the capitol and he came out and told me I had to leave immediately and didn't want any questions asked. But I got enough reference but I was very careful about because it's security risks but, hey, I just wanted to but I didn't wanna tell him, &quot;Yeah, I'm actually &quot;so I can blow it up in a video game,&quot; which was exactly what I was about to do. - And a lot of the concept like, a ruined capitol back then and even now is a and I remember that we and we used that concept art, so you're walkin' through the D.C. Metro and you're seeing like this on an ad of, like, this decayed, destroyed, nuked capitol building. And I was like, are you I mean, I guess. (both laughing) - We knew that the game we know what the overall story is, and then we start with the map, and looking at where in Washington, D.C. the player is gonna go. So one of the first things at any map, you have a lot and you want your quests to take the player all over the place. That sort of naturally involves going into easier zones, more difficult zones. And then we start come up with, because we want to tell the story, but we tell the story through the quests. So for us it was coming and how they all fit and what are the core combat beats. When we started talking about Fallout we knew that we wanted to do something structurally different a main quest and miscellaneous - [Danny] Oblivion had over but there were four main ones: the Thieves Guild, the Mages Guild, the Fighters Guild, and And each of these had that took the team So they made the decision to instead incorporating and Brotherhood of Steel Perhaps one of the reasons they cut it was a particularly that they hadn't figured The original Fallout using a system known as V.A.T.S So the team pooled together to help get this turn-based style of combat into their 3D FPS. This group was known as a strike team. So, by the time the public saw first-person V.A.T.S had been that BGS struggled with - Well, one of the big we had to create gun something this company hadn't done since the Terminator games. - I had grabbed Emil and it's like Knights of the Old Republic meets crash mode in Burnout. We were like, how do we put We messed with some but then it kinda came together. But I would tell you, that was one during the development - [Interviewer] Really? - Well, you can either go Is this just a glory shot? Like, what is the actual, what should the player be - We went from Oblivion, it was a very robust RPG, it was still very sort of hardcore, we were making the player-friendly game but it And Fallout had guns and like, you swung and you're and you hit, right? And then when you have of different combat mechanics very technically, that are had by many first-person shooters much, but better than we could ever do it. So we were trying to how are we gonna keep players who love our role-playing games and also make a decent because those two things don't often mix and that sort of was V.A.T.S. V.A.T.S was, you know, part of Fallout, it worked very well and we were able to make it so, hey, you're not so great at twitch-shooty, you can hit that button, pause select targets, just like - [Danny] It would take BGS they'd get the feel for this But one of the improvements came from the team's new structure. Designers were now split into two pools: level designers and quest designers. This allowed for the design of better combat spaces, and a lot more variety It meant that instead of one person taking creative leadership designers were working What this resulted in was a game packed full of memorable moments. So we decided to ask the team Vaults full of Garys, and much, much more. But seeing as we have to start somewhere, how about we start with the start? - I always loved the vaults. Probably every Fallout we do you'll be coming out of a vault. I like the emerging into the world. And it was an initial idea, I'm usually designing the Like, okay, it's like this, you live your whole life in the vault and that snapshot of your and then the emerging, I love - [Interviewer] Right. - And if you go back, if it's a little bit like, I just wanna get, a lot of people feel like but I love the, like, when you step out, you do feel like you lived (wind whistling) (eerie music) But if it was just the view, and you look at the view and you're like, &quot;It's okay, it's not bad, it's okay,&quot; but it's the fact that, the that make you really feel like Anytime there's sort of or I know more than the guy then we're trying to like massage it back. - Actually, we learned from Oblivion, this is when we have a that's your characters gen, we're trying to teach you things, get your character made, where we get to set you And we want it to be sorta overwhelming. How amazing is this? What am I gonna do? And we want that vista so a lot of work goes Where does your eye lead? Do you think you're gonna Can you see the LOD for And how am I gonna go explore this world? So we try to lead you into it but then let you go wherever you want and there were lots of discussions in terms of being a dystopian, but I think a lot of it really was we wanted this oppressive we wanted it to feel bad who's gonna come help And it was a big jump from to a blasted nuclear wasteland A lot of the environment artists joked, &quot;Hey, we're not allowed &quot;unless it's in the HUD.&quot; There's no live plants, there's no grass, it's all dead, it's all brown. - Everyone's dead so you don't but you also don't want people just stumbling around in the dark, so you have to find like, just enough flickering and see all the monsters, So you have to play through every quest to adjust the lighting, like make sure they have a nice light on 'em and they're not just, like, a really bright background And then it'll move 'cause and you just have to keep playing it and keep adjusting it all the time. - Before class, eh? you stupid Tunnel Snakes! - I can show you a real - Adam Adamowicz, our concept artist who passed away a few years ago. Yeah, he had drawn this concept art. We knew that we wanted, there's this greaser gang and it's a very 50s type of, and he had down a concept with that exact logo, Tunnel Snakes. - Tunnel Snakes Rule is awesome. And, by the way, if you ever see, if you're ever online somewhere and you see a guild or a thing that's us, to a T every time. (interviewer laughing) Anytime someone here is or a clan, or whatever in another game, everyone at the studios knows, yeah, it's Tunnel Snakes Rule. (gun firing) - Ah, Gary! - Gary! - That's a classic example of something I had nothing to do with. It was just the level they had, &quot;We need a vault, - They did all these vaults and they had this one with all the Garys. And the level designer we had, it was a big deal, we record all the VO And he's like, &quot;We have this &quot;I wanted to record some more lines, &quot;just the guy saying Gary,&quot; I'm like, &quot;They do what?&quot; He says, &quot;They just say Gary.&quot; I'm like, &quot;That's the fucking - I remember when we added I'm always assembling the I think at the time, I always at first, I'm like, this is stupid. All right, fine, whatever! - So you want us to reopen the archives, get him to record Gary over and over? And he's like, &quot;Trust me.&quot; - (laughing) Gary! (gun firing) - And they go in and they do it and it, I tell you what, before that, that is one of the worst can you imagine it without the? But then it goes in and I was so wrong, it's great, I'm like, &quot;Perfect, I love it, it's hilarious!&quot; - Gary! (gun firing) - (laughing) Gary! - Gary! - We had this nice tower kit I was like, &quot;Ah, this'll be really cool.&quot; And the designer knew, this group of people who all of the way this horrible so literally we put them so they had this really tall tower out in the middle of nowhere the perfect view for, all right, let's nuke Megaton, if (rumbling) (booming) - The verticality was interesting, it gave us some advantages like, you know, you could have Allistair in a very unique position where he's like sniping people in the wasteland. But the real challenge there of, you know, do I let the ghouls out? Who do I save? Who don't I? Because we had this goal in Fallout 3 that the player can do anything, if the player wants to kill a quest giver, they can kill a quest giver. We talked about Megaton, the sheriff, that you're and so you have the good quest, and you shoot him and kill him, but then you disarm the His little son actually &quot;My dad's dead but he wanted - Every Fallout game I do where I go through all the dialog and I rip out probably 'cause it really doesn't need it. But in the case of Fallout we have the character of Mayor MacCready who we decided we want this kid like, we were gonna through - And he comes, the voice actor we got, I don't even know what the but he just did a great job who's trying to be and he's in charge and, oh God, it's little moments like that. (eerie music) - [Danny] Fallout 3 was a and as they moved onto their a corporate level decision was made to make a sequel to Fallout. Fallout: New Vegas was made who worked on the original games. The game was put together in 18 months and so launched in a pretty buggy state, but fans generally Obsidian evolved the first person Fallout. They tightened up the gun and created a wonderfully immersive world packed full of interesting stories. There aren't many New Vegas and in talking to the team here, it sounds like they in the production at all. - We were very hands-off with that. We had, I think, you know, it was corporate level and we wanted to support but we knew they were capable folks and they were doing their own thing. I think we had like one or two like, go over some high-level stuff and like what are the ground rules? What should we be doing? But we were busy working on that was one of the things, if they were gonna do this, have the time to work on it with them because we're doing our own stuff. - [Interviewer] How much when it came to New Vegas? Was that very much just their very own thing that was going on or? - It pretty much was their own, we were pretty knee-deep and there really wasn't a lot of help that we could give them. Interesting enough, of all the people, I was probably the one on the team that worked on New Vegas but they did a heck of a job like this, here is the engine And we gave them all the we gave them all the raw like, here's everything, you know, they gave us a great pitch, a great story, and it was pretty exciting, actually, to see someone else do their take on it and it was obviously but I thought they did a (majestic music) - [Danny] The team at BGS has where their new studios in Austin and Montreal are dialed in. They begin each meeting and recognition of their anniversaries. - This is in Montreal, Jason, Katja, four years, Jared, four years, Jarod, four years, five years, sorry. Gabe's five years, and so a lot of people. (crowd applauding) - [Danny] It went on for quite a while, the top Bethesda Birthday quest designer Brian Chappy The average tenure at BGS is pretty high. This has meant that as they the team has become more of the process through Bethesda has a process. They overlap projects so that another is being spun up. They always start with the map. They add new technology Then they write stories, and create strike teams to Crucially, they've gotten and pulling less out of This is a process that but through experience, they've become a lot - I don't know, let's before release, it's a serious mess. - [Interviewer] Right. - Always. Hey, we wanna push 'em in this direction but things just don't click and then you start shaving. There's tricks you have to or, hey, let's cut this or or let's make this you know, more of a thing. And then when you ship it sometimes, there's something you miss, you realize, ugh, this is the one and that wasn't our intention. - Three months before we where things are in the game, you're in alpha transitions into beta, and the game is done and, &quot;Yeah, this doesn't feel right, it sucks!&quot; And you're like, I know, like we know that it sucks, to make it not suck, to make it fun. Like it's a, you know, it's of granite has been thank you, it's sitting in there, now I'm just chiseling just give me a little more And at this point we've been doing it so long we know it'll get there. - Yeah, I think everyone here wants these games to be amazing. We don't, like, hold back, we're putting everything we And that, actually, is there's a time when you gotta realize, okay, this isn't gonna be good enough, maybe we should cut this back or pare this back a little bit. But it's not for a lack of trying. Everyone wants everything and then the next game it's, &quot;Okay, that was great, what can we do now? &quot;How can we make this better? &quot;We're done, next!&quot; You know, what're we gonna do no one will ever wanna after they've seen this. - [Interviewer] That - No, that's good. Our fans are amazing, that they having the creation kit and modding be such a big part of Bethesda I'll often go look at mods and just can't believe what they've done. Mostly on the visual front, like, oh, wow, that's really amazing how they're using some Or the teams who will one of our older games that's like the biggest, I don't know, praise you could possibly get that people want to remake in the newer engine just 'cause it'll be a little bit better and cooler and they wanna see what they - There are a lot of people are huge fans of mods and And they've been doing it The modding community is 15, 18 years old, that's unheard of in the there are no fans of, like, not even the Minecraft like, there's nothing so we're in a really unique situation. (gentle music) - You know, I talked to because it was just kind of Todd and I talking about Skyrim early they were still working on Fallout stuff. And we both wanted, he and of what we wanna do in the We both wanted something the generic fantasy of Oblivion but wasn't as alien as Morrowind was. So we wanted to do something that had a lot more of the local culture, so we picked the nords, we were both excited about doing nords, but wanted to kind of mix in from the other provinces around Skyrim. And then I drew a map and that well, what is this game? All right, I'll make a map where everything goes And I pulled references for 'cause early on we told we're gonna be making Skyrim &quot;Is it gonna be all snow? &quot;That sounds really boring.&quot; So I did a presentation for &quot;No, it's not gonna be all snow and plus, &quot;there's so many different kinds So we broke apart this into tundra, different types the more open fields tundra, a snow environment, a and then forests, make 'em different, we can have pine forests, which we called it 'cause we kinda set the tone of the game in the fall. - What it was, it felt that Oblivion had tipped back to being too generic. It's welcoming, right? But it doesn't have, its &quot;I'm the next gen And we needed something that at an instant felt a bit more rugged And the dragons and the - Fallout 3 had a very we hadn't done factions, in a lot of ways than even Oblivion, which allowed us to polish. And we knew that with Skyrim - Skyrim would be the team's fourth bite at their particular brand of And with that confidence came the drive to improve on things that To plan better so they had more time to add new flavors to their world. - We'll come up with the basic ideas behind each town or each city and say, all right, these are the it's kinda based on, you it's a heavy Imperial near a port, come up with some ideas. And then Ray, one of our and put it on top of a cliff with an arch over to and everyone was like, &quot;Oh, &quot;this is starting to feel really unique.&quot; - With the cave kit we tried 'cause I already did the so we tried to branch out and 'Cause the way we would build them before it was pretty much LEGO pieces and it would all snap caves aren't really 90 degree and added all these so things can flow around really natural. It's more work for the designers but then it doesn't just feel so I think it made a big difference and sort of laid the ground work for what we did on Fallout (peaceful music) - [Danny] Whatever way you slice it, one of the elements that These games, with all their openness, all their interactive objects are rife with bugs. In the past, bug hunting was something that was done by the entire but as the studio grew, they into starting a quality Now they were hiring people, many of whom were fans of the games, to join their QA department And as it turns out, bugs - There were some that dealt the person who was just trying to find typos, trying Then there are the people where they were trying to find whether they could run through a wall or whether this collection of spells, if we're using Skyrim as an example, would cause the game to crash. So there were teams that quest completion and from point A to point just running the specific path. Some would have to divert There were achievement testers or do what they needed to whether the achievements and trophies were gonna pop properly. - [Danny] Skyrim wasn't to ship with bugs, but and the growing popularity of YouTube, it was the first to have so many of them immortalized for millions to see. I asked the team about some you may have seen yourself, and others you probably haven't. - In the DLC for Skyrim, there was artwork that was So there's a fork and knife, you weren't supposed to they were just supposed but there are two in the 'cause they never fixed it, that you can pick up and hold as weapons and you can enchant decapitate people with an Had a blast doing this like that part wasn't that big of a deal, but the bug part of it came and then loaded that game with it would load you into the So, like, you'd just be in the middle of a table place setting. - [Interviewer] The game, makes you, like, the plate? - Yeah, you're basically you're not standing on top of the table, you're standing in the table, anywhere where there's a fork and knife if it's in the same load set. So if I'm in that area somewhere later in the it will propel me to where - So after Skyrim came out, the first thing there's of people throwing buckets - Welcome to the Pawned Prawn. What can I do for you? - You don't look so good, - I have all sorts of - Because our system a line of sight, a pick drawn to whatever they were going for. You put a bucket on their head they couldn't see you anymore, right? No one thought to do that, all our QA, all the hundreds of hours, thousands, tens of hundreds of thousands hours we collectively played that game. - The giants would launch, and I didn't know that the Every once in a while you would see, like, you'd be playing Skyrim you're like running around, and you would just see a mammoth, like, fly up in the air and then you'd see it, like, drop, and you're like, Like, little by little, the animator who animated the giant, like, &quot;Dude, have you seen the flying mammoths? &quot;Like, what's happening?&quot; Something will aggro the giant, the giant will then hit the ground and because they're always they send them in the air, but I never saw the And so then the game released and then suddenly there's this whole thing where my bear was being and then, obviously, of that bear that keeps - [Player] Attack bear, Yes! (laughing) - [Danny] As much as we all bugs weren't the only element of Skyrim to be immortalized in by internet culture. Emil is responsible for so much of what makes these games special. He's written all the the he helped design every lockpicking game Bethesda has ever worked on, he even wrote an entire with arenas in every city for Oblivion, but just like But despite all of his work the thing that Emil is is a single line of guard dialogue that he wrote in about five seconds. - Yeah, so, again, I was Dark - [Interviewer] Are you then, is that what you're telling me? - Yeah, I am, actually (laughing) that is the weirdest thing ever. But yeah, it's just, it in a stack of hundreds, I don't know, the guys say a bunch of stuff. And for some reason, to this day I still don't Yeah, so weird. - [Interviewer] Presumably you - Yeah, I was just writing a stack of 'em, a bunch of randomized lines like, &quot;I used to be an adventurer like you &quot;then I took an arrow in the knee,&quot; you know, &quot;hey, I saw you know, whatever, it wasn't, didn't give it a second just trying to get into the mindset of what these guys are like. - I used to be an adventurer like you, then I took an arrow in the knee. - [Danny] Something else Emil worked on was the dragon language. The team had wanted to into a 3D Elder Scrolls and now that they finally had they wanted it to be an - I don't know if this has ever come out, but one of the biggest is actually the power of - [Interviewer] Oh really? - Yeah, the Maud'Dib, yeah, 'cause he has that device (grunting) and it blows up the rock. There's a sort of cadence to it, 'cause each shout can be and so, like, if you find one word, it's an exhale like &quot;Fus,&quot; if there's two words it's an inhale then an exhale, it's like &quot;Fus ro!&quot; And then if it's like, &quot;Fus ro dah!&quot; So getting that pattern and that sort of, it feels a little bit musical and then coming up with - [Danny] For Fallout 4, a strike team to figure out and for Skyrim, there were a One of them ran for the entire length of the game's development, for one of the most the dragons. - They're very special if you think about draw distance, right? In games you wanna be a fish in a bowl. Okay, when can I unload something or when can I deal with memory issues? But the dragon, you from as far as your eye can see, right? Because you can go so he's basically like loaded all the time and he's costly, he has the most bones, you know, the most dense mesh. If you think about him, - Dragons were tough in multiple ways. Just how did they work? Just with the way the games work and the way we build the worlds, it's very sort of cell-based it has to load a certain number of cells and a certain number of acres well, here's this thing that's in the sky that can go wherever it How's it work within the And then once it's within your space, how do you actually fight it? - [Interviewer] Right. - So fighting in the air if when it's on the ground. So I remember we basically and it was one of those from beginning to end, we Just sort of, can we do this, and then once we got we can make this work, and then, okay, what do we do, what don't we do? Like the quest wouldn't It's over here, there's a That's when we go back and 'Cause it uses a radiant AI so it would go off on its - [Danny] Skyrim was a massive commercial and critical success. It become one of the most spawned a huge community and has since been released on practically every console known to man. Something the team referring to Skyrim as the But the success the game enjoyed was a surprise to most of them. - I would've never guessed and do as well as it did. We knew it was a fun game, like I knew playing it, you &quot;I think we have something here &quot;but I don't wanna say it out loud &quot;because I don't wanna jinx it.&quot; And yeah and that would've that would've been their third game now, so that's practically for a team to be together We started with Morrowind and then Fallout 3, now we're And it's one of the because of our history and all the games that we've worked on, we can track, how're we doing now compared to where we were on this How do we compare versus Skyrim? How do we compare versus And that's sort of another advantage that we have in the industry that we have all these I call them playbooks, like, how did we solve this problem in Skyrim? How did we solve this Like, we need a new game mechanic, okay great, we have 15 like which one do you wanna try? (peaceful music) - The first thing is for us is figure out where the hell is this game set? And it wasn't Boston originally. I grew up in Boston and I but I didn't wanna be that guy, I didn't wanna push for it so I'm like. It was set somewhere else and in my desk, an original design doc. And in that design doc, the one thing, the one holdover is the was conceived even way back then, he was like the first - [Danny] Emil's design doc focusing on a New York-based Fallout was one idea that the lead's were floating around. They could place this game anywhere, in fact at one stage to remove a line in New Vegas about San Francisco being they wanted the Bay area to at least be an option for future games. The idea for Boston actually between Istvan Pely, And once Beantown was given the thumbs up, Emil headed home with his camera. - I had a friend of mine who was MIT, so the Institute is MIT, obviously, right? CIT in the game. But I had a friend who was an MIT cop, he drove me around, have me &quot;Hey, I don't know if you knew this, &quot;but it's an open campus,&quot; and he's like, &quot;The campus &quot;you can walk through the classrooms, &quot;you can walk through anywhere.&quot; And you know the whole I was wandering on a side tunnel there's this cryo lab with and I sent these selfies and (interviewer laughing) Looked pretty funny and the story just started to - I have friends that live there so we toured around the city and I was taking tons which should've been a red flag to them, but then the extra big &quot;And then we're gonna go That was designed to be like that was the very first was starting out building we knew we wanted those stadium lights and we knew the player was gonna have, like, their first quest So I always wanted this beacon and I always like to build worlds in a way where you have these landmarks that you can help orient that way you don't have to, like, pull up the map all the time You can just navigate using what you see. - My childhood bedroom is in the game, my high school's in the game. A raider boss named Bosco, he has a bear. So it was the Don Bosco Bear was my mascot back in high school, so Fenway Park, well, I mean, We knew that there were the You have this quest to and you can repaint the which is the most sacrilegious I was like, we gotta do this. It was great. Boston Common and the public garden, the swan boats are big and the supermutant behemoth. The Old North Church, we knew that that had to be a significant place. The Old Statehouse which The name Goodneighbor comes who was one of the last so Goodneighbor is in an area which was the original red - 2011 I think there of that drawing out, how we wanted the market laid out and stuff. I actually laid that out myself and one of the things I wanted was I knew players were gonna 'cause you're always and sometimes people will lay out a city and it's like, the clothing the weapon shop is over there. I was like, that is super annoying and takes 30 hours of just like running back and So I was like, let's take all the shops, and we put them right here in the middle so you can just buy and - Fallout 4 I think, for we really handled a giant Technically and artistically, to jam everything we make sure you didn't get lost, and make sure it ran well and it was fun. That was quite a lot of how to build the downtown city of Boston. We had like key colors that popped out where there was like a and a certain red and a certain blue that you'll see used on everything. Like, the high-tech buildings will have the same blue as the cars, those were very conscious We just wanted these accent colors, so you'd have, you would know so you'd have sort of the and ruined stuff is a certain color but then you'd get these pops of color to make it feel a little bit more alive while still being trashed and crappy. Color and lighting have a where I think of it as, They see something and go towards it. Yeah, that was intentional, here are these bright I know I'm gonna go find that's gonna lead me that we're in and just be kind - [Danny] The location for is always a point of interest, many of us had heard that years before the game was released. In December of 2013, a Kotaku article revealed the location to be Boston, referencing a voiceover script that had been leaked to their news desk. Communications between the studio and the outlet have but I wanted to know when they first saw the report. - There were some small there were some VO script You know, I was, separate story really, but literally the first was when they were emailed to me from somebody outside the company. And then you're like, what is this? Where's this coming from? But you know what? I think you gotta let roll off the shoulders pretty quickly, like, we have enough to do and there's so much going on that the fact that more doesn't leak, like in general, not is kind of surprising. - That was pretty, it was surprising, and obviously we tried to track it down and figure out what happened. And that was, you know what, like, if you're gonna obfuscate you really have to hide it, you can't simply just give it Like, if you look at the thing you're like, oh, this is a Fallout game. - [Danny] Bethesda Game expanding departments with a focus on improving the general Technical artists were hired to create bespoke tools for the team, dedicated animators helped They added cinematic cameras to dialogue, upgraded the animation system, and even sharpened up the shooting. - We really, I felt with Havok Animation in particular, when we integrated that into our system, I think Fallout 4 was the beginning of us really catching a groove with that. Like, there's a certain to learn a new tool when we adopted Havok, there's a time when you're so we did that with Skyrim. But I think when we had Fallout 4, we knew it well enough where so much and you're much more in the realm of creating the art, right? I started on Dogmeat and I kind of did the pre-production on Dogmeat and then I passed it on to someone else who actually did an amazing job with it. And then I stayed primarily on scenes, directing any actors we had We spend so much time talking in our games and it's the area where I feel like we continually need to push. I did a lot of the mo-cap, I was also the actor - [Interviewer] Oh really? - Yeah, yeah, yeah, when he first comes in, I shot the infamous cryo pod scene where the guy was shooting the spouse. That we did with a couple people here. Yeah, we have like a mo-cap station, I just go downstairs and just shoot it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I just get and I try to perform to or I grab somebody else and say, &quot;Hey, I need your help, let's go shoot.&quot; - You know, it's funny, I grew the last time I saw him in me and him and his friends were it was like this bully-nerd situation, did not end in a good way. And I had known that Jay he'd gone on to be an actor and I liked the things he'd been in, so I reached out to him, I'm &quot;I know you're an actor, do So he's actually, he does a (guns firing) - [Danny] Before each project Bethesda hosts a game everyone in the studio for a new or existing game. It can be anything, big or small. For instance, one of the producers learned how to animate Those animations are used in Fallout 4. Another game jam gem came from physics programmer Mike Delaney. He knocked together a to build and furnish their own bases. This system, Workshops, ended up being one of the tent-pole but the truth is that it almost didn't make it into the final game. - The Workshop mode in Fallout was on the cutting block for so long. We were like, &quot;I don't know if anyone &quot;really wants to do this, &quot;Well, I guess we'll just It was always kind of, because we just weren't sure, like, does anyone even care And it turned out to be huge, like there's a contingent and there's a contingent of fans, hardcore fans, who absolutely adore it. - Workshops was the because we were always so afraid of it. Not, afraid's the wrong word. It was ancillary to the rest of the game. It was a side thing, so we kept it there because it was such an ambitious endeavor, like it became part of the certain quests you had to do. But we could've easily, had we it could've been a big rebuild a town or something. One of physics programmers, and was like, &quot;I did this &quot;and turn lights on and and then Todd saw that and was like, &quot;Well, you get to do that Well, some parts of the And it built and built and built. - [Danny] One of the conspiracy theories that fans of BGS games love to talk about is the idea that these games The way in which the studio means that there are always being brought into the But one of the most was actually left on It involved the town and a bunch of magic kids. - In the real world, there's another town of Danvers, and there was a rivalry like, the high school teams with, like, the Danvers soccer team So we decided, let's do between Danvers and Salem in the game. We were like, okay, what It's witches. All right, and so what if we have people with mutations They're kind of X-Men-ish but but they're viewed as witches So there's this sort of, like, they're being persecuted somehow, we'll get that witch theme. We were using the Skyrim code base, which had magic built in. So we had, all right, fireballs Well, you know, eventually into Fallout 4's development, and so we were like, we don't have this magic stuff anywhere, there are no more fireballs, So, long story short, that I wanna say, four or five variations and four or five designers and it was this close to getting cut. And one of the issues was right, Danvers ended up and it was so close we And so there were no two towns that could compete against each other, so we had to like, what do we do? We know we have this museum one of our designers, one of our newest quest he was given this quest and was like, we gotta do something with I want there to be a quest And we worked together and it's a very, it's one of the coolest quests in the game and it's such a cool, it has It's basically like, what do you do if you have a deathclaw And trying to escape from it and doing some really and, like, we know we can trim it, are we gonna trim it out of existence, is it still gonna be fun? And it is, we just had to (deathclaw growling) (gun firing) (whooshing) (deathclaw roaring) - [Danny] If the team was they were making them far Fallout 3 didn't have faction quests, the team decided to scrub them out to make time for other The system had been re-introduced with faction alliances having So when it came for they decided to make factions an integral part of the - In Fallout 4, there to make all the factions We did not do that in previous games and it kept things simpler, hey, I played the Mages Guild in Skyrim and they didn't particularly care that dragons were But in this game, all the around this Synth threat, it made things vastly, vastly more complicated. - Oh my God, I joined the but then I do this over here but then I join the Brotherhood of Steel and I have Danse as a companion but then I also wanna have Strong, and, uh, it's mind-boggling. - And it worked out really well in that each faction got their own group so they got ownership of it So even though the Brotherhood of Steel is a little bit evil, I - From my perspective, Fallout 4 is our most like that game was playable far earlier than any other game we've had. We were playtesting it far earlier, we had all our processes and it was pretty rock solid. (gentle music) - [Interviewer] What that you're most proud of? - I think there's a comradery that when you go to that meeting there's a sense of pride, that, of like, yeah, I worked and this person for 18 years, and 16 years, and enough of us. These are the games we like, we really enjoy the games. More so, we enjoy doing it with each other and if we didn't we wouldn't I think, like, it's a lot of work. I spend more time, I've spent more time with the or even just Elder Scrolls, Like, anything. My family. Like, if you count up the hours. And that has to mean something we'll do below average work or people will move on or it's just a job. But there's a certain, there's that I think a lot of us get the sense of, I don't know if you're coming in, I don't know if you do or don't, you're spending limited time. It's sort of that thing but if you do it with other people, it's just far more meaningful, right? It's like, we're always trying have we bitten off more than we can chew? Of course! Like, that's who we are, and we won't always get all the way there, but I'd rather shoot for it and then see where we end up then be safe. - Thank you for joining us on our journey through the history of And now that we've suitably it's time to look forward In our next documentary, we talk to the people as we explore the design of Fallout 76, and give you an exclusive window into the studios lofty plans. - So we'll catch up after for an exciting into the new games this Enjoy the show! (wind whistling) (clicking)