Shopping, selling, buying, a harmless act but for some street vendors it's another story. How much do you want Twenty-five dollars. When I choose something, I don't want other people to come, To be sure to sell all her goods, With Daniel, her driver, It's quite the contrary. We are ready for the adventure. I like adventure and adrenaline. I don't like ironing or washing towels, Anyway, once we almost died on this road. It was raining We slipped and ended up in a fence! We would have died if it didn't stop us. Oh, no. Look at all that mud. This section of road is really terrible. It's not a job for women, I won't wait for a man It's not possible. I have to manage on my own. It's nice to be independent My boss is a fighter. An example to follow. I admire and respect her a lot. Not many are as adventurous as Rosa. Two hundred and sixty kilometers Three days of dangerous pitfalls. Living in Honduras Fortunately, it's something And yet. A little money to eat! Poverty is not rare. As for safety, Nobody takes to the road This is a very isolated area, so I always take a gun with me to defend myself. To handle such difficulties, Let's fight! When it's a question everyone unites Global warming including hurricanes and storms. Find a safe place fast! They risk their lives. In the water, Some villages and it's dangerous to cross Beware of the whirlpools! This river is very dangerous, The country has not always had it easy, In the year 426, a powerful American Indian city For centuries, merchants on well-maintained roads. Today, their descendants are not so lucky. This region looks like the Wild West. Most of the inhabitants Hugo is one of the few people Hi. When he can, the farmer Today, he's on his way to a farm and take him to a hospital. It's crazy, it's the 21st century, The roads are really horrible here. However, our community is united. When someone is stuck on the road, At least he hopes so, as reaching the child It's terrible here. We're in the middle of October, It is slippery! The problem is all this water. The track turns quickly into an ice rink. To make matters worse, this man comes with bad news. How are you? He explains to him a dozen villagers Hugo will have to wait several hours, is no easy task. There are a lot problems on this road. Some time ago, 50 meters further, A car plunged into a ravine A child died. Come here! Come on, let's go. While waiting a little higher, I'm going to tie a rope so that my car The hours pass. It is impossible for him he has to take to the hospital. There's no phone service in the mountains. We have to pray to God We should order coffee! He waits four hours when, all of a sudden. Hi, handsome. This man is the father of the little boy When Hugo didn't arrive, and came to meet him. They really need to put asphalt We have hope, because hope is life! Isn't there a song about that? We're going to have to lift here and back. We're going through here, holding the car. It's not going to be easy, Give her some room. To get it out of the way, Come on, boss, it's okay, she's moving. Madness. They pull the two tons of steel If the car slips, Hold the car, hold it tight. He jokes, but his truck is out of control. The cameraman almost took the car! You blocked the wheel. You have to lift it. Super. We can leave. It's a risky business, but Hugo's car is in good condition Its red color shines in the mountains, Thanks to him, residents are able to go to a hospital in Guatemala. Outside the cities of Honduras, nearly 50 percent of the population How are those little legs? I'll take a look. It seems to be better. Juan broke his pelvis and leg He was put in a cast in Guatemala after four hours of driving When the kids get sick, we have to carry them on our shoulders. The other day, in the middle of a storm, She gave birth on the way. We try to fix the roads with our shovels. However, it's not enough. Life is hard here! The government doesn't help you. I think that our villages I don't know, we are completely forgotten! I think I'm going to run for office. Great, we'll all support you! If Hugo becomes mayor, The villagers won't walk to the Guatemalan hospital. In the meantime, to the hospital. Since its split from the Spanish crown, the history of Honduras and armed conflicts with its neighbors. However, it was in 1990 When the United States arrested on its territory, ultra violent gangs Drug trafficking and extortion. Thus, everyone has learned It's fucking crazy. Hell, yes, these fucking guns, Here, you can meet people and a whole bunch of automatic weapons. In Honduras, the police don't care. They are corrupt, These men are not thugs, I'll put it in my pickup. It's for my son's birthday. Mario is a breeder and a cab driver. The passengers aren't so happy -The cow will bite me, uncle! Well, especially Pancha, She has her own character. She quickly makes it obvious that the calf Both will have time to get acquainted. They have 150 kilometers of track That is to say, five hours at least a village whose only connections On each journey, Esteban's biggest fear but in good Honduran fashion, This is a very isolated region. Therefore, I always take a gun with me to defend myself. In this region, there are no police. We carry a lot of goods in our cars, so you have to carry Esteban draws his gun as a last resort. See you guys later. Other than his gun, We all have a radio in our cars. We can use it to call for help In this zone, there's no mobile reception. The radios allow us to communicate in the mountains. On the tracks, everyone drives very fast. If the brakes overheat, it's not serious. We know how to drive and even without a clutch. At the back, as they have no other choice. Buses do not pass on these tracks. Cars are the only means of transport and the only way to reach our village. The price of taking this risk a third of the average salary in Honduras. It's very expensive. The bad state of the road means I never earn the same salary. It's like the lottery, I have between 850 and 1,000 dollars Ascending, descending, All this is very hard on the calf. So much so, that. The cow has pooped! When he stops to clean it up, Mrs. Pancha expresses Hola. She got scared and tried to run away, The spider monkey and the calf It's still a long way to the village. Several centuries ago, Mrs. Pancha In the northeast of Honduras, hides the city of the monkey god Cortes and his conquistadors but they encountered the Great Forest. Impenetrable, hostile, a parasite that gnaws flesh Only the Miskitos It feeds them and has protected them My suitcase? I don't know if we can take it. It is absolutely necessary to go on board! We are loaded, Around ten people sit on board the boat. It's going to be a night! Let's go! I always look at my watch. I must calculate Sailing at night is impossible. The risk of hitting If you do, in this deserted jungle, you are alone in the case of an accident. Even in the middle of the day, This river is very dangerous. There have already been deaths. Beware of the whirlpools! It's risky to use the engine too much. You gain speed, With the paddles, we go more slowly. Go into the middle of the river. Once out of the rapids, but the crew faces another difficulty. In this part of the river, There are a lot of tree branches It is very dangerous, There's not enough water left. We're going to have to go slow. We have to use the paddles. For some years, the flow of the river Sometimes Roberto You don't have to look far for the cause. Deforestation is partly to blame This used to be the forest here. It was all trees. Then, herders brought cattle over. They made pastures. Since there is no longer with the sun, the water evaporates Before, there were many birds Now, because of deforestation, The birds moved away, The drama doesn't stop there. The Miskitos are also witnessing The majority treat themselves You have to know the plants well Some are applied to bring down a fever This small tree is effective against hives We give the leaves of this shrub to children who have stomach aches. The pain disappears at once. I think we're about to go It is necessary to tell If not, all of them will disappear. The forest will transform into a desert. After three hours of navigating Roberto and his canoe Thank God, thanks to you, All the passengers arrived safe at home. Roberto thinks the danger is behind him. Only, he is wrong. It's the calm before the storm, or more precisely, Its name, Hurricane Eta, Names synonymous with destruction. Their torrential rains The river is overflowing. Better safe than sorry later! If you don't want to regret it, They risk their lives. In the water, With no real means, the rescuers do what they can -I'm afraid of the water. On the roads, it's even worse. The devastating rains have weakened Landslides threaten the population. The whole cliff collapsed. A rock crossed the road, Fortunately, there were no injuries. The house was empty. In the mountains, Rosa, street vendor, have only covered which is half the distance They're trying to reach but the impact of the hurricane This is our daily life. There's always something going on, We're going to listen The hurricane and the rain A few days ago, Sometimes you can't even see You can jump a meter. Rosa is a strong woman. I am used to it, but in spite of that day. There were so many bumps The danger is also for my vegetables. With the shaking, The damage to the vegetables On the mountain tracks, water rushes down. Daniel refuses to slow down This bus isn't following Daniel's rules He has to go faster. Indeed, the bus driver not really ready to be overtaken. I'm so annoyed with this bus! I passed it. Daniel is a good driver. It's still fun to drive here, However, bragging is never good. A few kilometers later, He loses power, with drastic consequences. I need to back up a little and see if There is mud everywhere. We are splashed all the time! Sometimes I have to go down and get dirty. -Is it important for you to be pretty? With this job, I can't always stay clean, but I like to feel beautiful. Right now, mud stains The weather is getting worse fast. Often, because of the fog, One day, we drove over a pothole It damaged the truck. We had to spend the night on the road. As the kilometers go by, Once again, they will have They both hope without any more problems. If they make it, it will be partly thanks and her two sisters. With their mother, they fill the potholes. It's a matter of survival. A little money to eat, please! After the death of their father, Juanita, the mother, A little money to eat, A little money to eat, I'm cold, but I have to endure it We also need money to buy shoes. These were my older sister's, You have to see the state of my foot. Not all the drivers are so generous. They treasure each bill they get. I was given 65 cents, and it's a lot. I can buy food, coffee, I am so happy to get money. I would rather be in school, When I grow up, I want to study To become a doctor, A year ago, I have a little broken bone in my head. She got it while she was begging. When the motorcycle hit her, it looked like a stuffed animal She flew very high! Plastics gathered from the garbage, a hut that they call home, -How are you doing? As night falls, the temperature drops I'm so cold. I'm in pain, I can't stand my shoes. God will help us. God will give us a house. A sunny day. Hugo is relieved. The day before, the rain and mud in his car. This morning, He is taking Juan The little boy The road is extremely chaotic, but Maria does not have the means You have to pay In Guatemala, everything is free. You can see All Hondurans go to Guatemala because we don't have social security. The ground is slippery, We risk being blocked here The most difficult thing for Hugo to be both powerful in order not to shake up the car too much. However, this is far from easy. I sweat a little. Brave boy Juan doesn't complain once which has lasted four hours. We arrived at the border of Agua Caliente, which is the limit of Honduras. Maria and her son will stay when it will be time for Hugo The driver is angry. He would like the state and to set up a public transport service. The government and the municipalities who live in the countryside. They are only interested in the cities. Some members of the state Hugo, the farmer, To continue to transport In the forgotten regions of Honduras, traveling on four hooves and a good saddle than sharing the back of a pickup truck a calf, and a spider monkey. It's pineapple juice. She likes everything. The length of the trip Yet, Mario is now and the road is far from being finished. We begin to see raccoons. That means River crossings are rarely dangerous. They just make them lose a lot of time. On the way, the owners A driver agreed to transport them. A little like making a deal Mario still has 50 kilometers to go The last stretch of road Here, the smallest error in driving One skirts ravines of 500 meters Driving along the precipices at night Thank God, we arrived. It was a long trip. One hundred and fifty kilometers The small calf is also struggling. Let's untie the calf. It can then rest and eat. The Mayans saw the eagle as a guide who would lead their spirit Rosa, the shopkeeper, don't need a guide. They make their way and overcome obstacles even after three days of travel. The danger on this section In addition, there are crevasses. If we are not careful, You have to manage I'm going to have my chest It's already coming out. After 260 kilometers of permanent shaking, they finally reached However, when they begin to unload, I have to get rid of the dust. All the vegetables are spoiled. Every time I go down this road, It makes me sad when I lose good food. I want to buy avocados and oranges. If it weren't for Rosa the 300 inhabitants of this village -How much does it cost? It's great that it's delivered As there is no longer a market, -What do you want? I'll give you three for 80 cents. Rosa is the only shopkeeper so they can buy these goods. I sold well, and I am happy. A trip like this one Sometimes it's much less and then I have to pay my driver. It's hard, but I prefer that Rosa is a fighter. In Honduras, Women are often considered lesser There are few female entrepreneurs The shopkeeper hopes to claim their freedom. The living conditions in Honduras to immigrate to the United States. Referencing this movement, &quot;They are not chasing the American dream, The battle for a dignified life Beautiful souls such as Hugo, Rosa, of the courage of Honduras.