- Well, Genesis 6:1-4 is a difficult text. And as we attempt to interpret it, we should be humble because there are that have been taken of this text and I don't think that whatever interpretation we take, I don't think we should be divisive with other Christians in the church or among the people of God. There are three, Genesis 6 says that the sons of God saw the daughters of men and that they chose the daughters of men and they married them. So the question is, who are the sons of God that are marrying the daughters of men? Well, there are three One is that the sons of God is a reference to the godly line of Seth. Cain killed Abel so after Abel died, Adam and Eve had relations and Seth was born and Seth carried on the godly faith of Abel. So one idea is that the sons of God are the descendants of Seth the ungodly line of Cain. Second interpretation refers to angels, angelic beings intermarrying with humans. The third idea is that the sons of God are heroes from the We have stories from For example, we have stories of a person by the name of Gilgamesh and he was part god and part human and accomplished many mighty feats. So, how do we, how do we find the right interpretation? The exact expression, sons of God, only occurs four or five We have one occurrence here in Genesis 6. We have two occurrences to the book of Job. In the introduction to the book of Job, we see God gathering His heavenly assembly with the angels. The angels are called sons of God there. There's another occurrence Job chapter 38 where God is challenging Job and He says, Where were you when I created the world? When He created the world, the sons of God sang for joy. So it seems to, there it also seems to be a very clear reference to angelic beings. The last occurrence is in Aramaic in the book of Daniel. When the king looked into the furnace, he saw four, four people there and it says that one which would mean a divine There are only five where we have the exact expression, son of God or sons of God and it always refers to angelic beings. We must distinguish this use from other places. There are other places in the Bible where they indicate that to God is like a father-son relationship. So Adam and God have a In the covenant that God makes with David, God and David have a But it doesn't say that, it doesn't actually say It doesn't use that linguistic expression and it doesn't say that So the only time that occurs in the Bible, it always and very clearly We also have the, we also have the witness So there are two passages that refer to this. One is 2 Peter chapter 2 and the other is the book of Jude and both of these texts are very closely related to each other. In 2 Peter chapter 2, Peter is talking about how difficult days are and there will be people who deny the truth about Jesus Christ, the truth about His work, who deny the gospel. There will be false teachers and they will bring and destruction into the church. What Peter does is he and he says, well, if God could deliver, if God could deliver His faithful people in difficult times in the Old Testament, then He will be able to do it Peter refers to two examples in the Old Testament. One is the story of the, of Genesis 6 and Noah and the other is the story of Lot being rescued from the And if you look in the Greek text of 2 Peter, it's very clear that there are two examples and not three examples by the use of the word and. So if God did not spare and He delivered Noah and He did not spare the and He rescued Lot. So there are two examples joined by the word and and each example has two parts, a negative part and a positive part. A negative part and a positive part. So, when Peter is talking about the angels who sinned, he's very Genesis chapter 6 with the story of Noah. Some people say, well, no, he's not talking about Genesis 6. Well, then my question to them is, if Peter is trying to encourage his readers from well-known stories in the Old Testament and is not Genesis 6, then There is no other story that it could be referring to. Some people think that but as we, we're going to there is no story, there is no story in the Old Testament that describes the fall of Satan. Peter is very clearly Jude is doing the same in the book of Jude because he's talking about people who are false teachers, people who are going to deny the faith and he also appeals to the Old Testament and shows how God delivered and He will do so in the future. He also refers to two events. He refers to angels who abandoned their proper dwelling place, their proper home. He also talks about the and he says, since they, in the same way as these committed strange immorality. Well, in the Greek text, the they refers to the angels and the same way as these, the these refers to the So what the story of Genesis 6 has in common with the is that there's an abnormal If God can deliver His people from even the strangest perversions, then He will deliver the people who are listening to Peter and the people who are listening to Jude. He will deliver us. Now, someone might come to me and say, well, Jesus in the gospels says that the angels in heaven neither marry nor are given in marriage. So it's impossible for an angel to have physical relations Well, they're not reading and clearly because Jesus is saying that when, in the resurrection, when Jesus returns at the end of history, we, who are resurrected, are not going to marry like the angels in heaven. Notice he says the angels in heaven and Jude says they left their proper dwelling place. So there's no contradiction In heaven, the angels don't marry. In Jude, they abandoned and they go to commit strange immorality. So there's no confusion. So it seems very clear, Genesis 6 is telling us that these are angels and Jude and Peter are telling us that is the correct interpretation. The next piece is who are the Nephilim. In verse 4 of Genesis 6, it says, the Nephilim were on and also afterward when the sons of God had and they bore children of them. End of sentence. New sentence. They were the heroes who men of renown. There's two major sentences there. First one says, the in those days and also afterward. There are two possible interpretations of this expression, they were on the earth in What does that mean, they were there in those Well, some people think this means that the Nephilim were the children that came from the angels in Genesis 6:1-3 and that the Nephilim were the product of these unnatural unions and they appeal to texts and 2nd century B.C., the so-called Enochic traditions, the traditions about Enoch where the Nephilim are There's another interpretation When it says the Nephilim and also afterward, it could mean that before the angels had the Nephilim were there and they were also there after the angels had sex with women. So it could mean that the with the angels marrying the humans. I think that is the correct interpretation for two reasons. First of all, I examined every occurrence of this expression and also afterward. I went to the Hebrew Bible, I looked up every and I examined how it was used. And the second interpretation best fits and suits how this word is used. So when it says, they were there in those it means the Nephilim cohabited with humans and they were there after There's a second reason why this is the correct interpretation. The last sentence says, they were the heroes who the men of renown. This sentence does not begin with and. Now that's very very important. Almost every sentence in the When a sentence does not begin with and, it does so for two reasons. It could be because it's beginning a new section or secondly, because it's making a comment on the previous sentence, what we would call a footnote. It's very clear that this a new section but it's on the previous sentence. So the previous sentence is saying that the Nephilim were before, were there before the angels and they were there after. And it's making a brief comment that they were the ancient heroes. In this case, what Moses is doing is he's demythologizing the Nephilim. You notice one of the things the text doesn't tell us What does that mean? Why doesn't the text tell us who they were? Because they were well-known of this text. The first readers of this text knew who the Nephilim were and didn't need that explained to them. And all Moses is saying is, look, whoever you think these heroes are like Gilgamesh, these ancient heroes, these men of renown, you've read about them in Whoever they were, they're They don't come from the cohabitation of angels and humans. And I think that's the But the problem is, this has been a difficult and it has not always down through the centuries. And in the 3rd century B.C. and the 2nd century B.C., they came to an incorrect interpretation. They thought that the Nephilim were giants who were produced by angels and this got into the book of Enoch. And Paul warns his readers against this because he says in his letters to Timothy, Don't argue over endless genealogies and foolish myths. This is a direct reference which has a long genealogy until you finally come down to Satan and then they blame all the What they're trying to blame chaos and death and evil in the world on angelic sin instead of blaming it on human sin and the Bible clearly Genesis 3 shows how sin How did we live in a world that is troubled by chaos, by death, by evil, by sin, by selfishness, by all kinds of corruption. That came about because with the first humans and They were fickle, they were disloyal, they were unfaithful, they cheated on God in the relationship and they rebelled against Him. And so when Jude quotes and he's showing that it's, the sin is in the world not because of angelic sin. (upbeat music) - [Narrator] Thanks for Don't forget to subscribe.