What does success actually mean to you? not have accepted Him as your Lord where So how do you do this practically? Your life is not your own. existence because He is God, not you. What have you been doing for Him this year? Are you ready to stand before God, before he the talents, and gifts that I have given you? Hey guys, you know in this world that we live in But what does success actually mean to you? luxury and do whatever you want? Or maybe it is to start a small company and grow Or maybe it's to play in professional sports. Let's say you do achieve your goal. You stand there, you look at what you've done, Let me ask you a better question. like to God in your life? sucked into this rat race on earth, where more money, more fame, more worldly success. a dream they never reach or some reach it, mountaintop and I can't believe that this is it. So many look back on their lives realize they had the wrong goal all along. yearn for in their inner man is to have true and to do it in true joy and peace. Proverbs 16:4 says: The Lord has made everything for its Psalm 138:8 says: The Lord will fulfill His purpose for me. David wrote most of the Psalms and you can And God called him a man after my own heart. him all about God. this - how are you currently balancing Are they two different things? Romans 12:2 says: Do not be conformed to this world but be that by testing you may discern what is the will Your work is part of your purpose here on be two different things, but the same thing. And this time that we live in - this day and age for a reason. Well only He knows the plan So there's a reason that He created you with your There's a plan for your life but here's the catch. like - what success is to you - is often very God says in Isaiah 55:8: For my thoughts are not your thoughts. the Lord, for as the heavens are higher than and my thoughts than your thoughts. His ways are so different. That means it's completely different. choose not to follow God because they never reach they never know because many people To live not in the will of God but according their own emotions, even Christians. might not have accepted Him as your Lord where So then you don't reach what He has in store God knows what you are capable of and He Ephesians 2:10 says: For we are His worksmanship, for good works which God prepared God gave you a self-determining will to To choose to follow and obey God to his majesty and the plan He has in store for you, to walk in that plan, that is how you The one thing all humans search for - people And they don't understand that Not happiness, because that's emotion. But peace and joy, true peace and joy from That is what people truly yearn for. So how do you do this? Only He knows. First, you become a reborn Christian. You need to choose the light. But then you understand, hey, after accepting Christ. As a Christian, There's still a lot of years after you became here in this temporary world. Well, God will tell you. When you became a reborn Christian, He sealed you with the Holy Spirit, the helper. You are not alone and it is the Holy Spirit 1 Corinthians 6:19: Or do you not know that your body is whom you have from God? So now with the Holy Spirit you Spend time in prayer. You pray to Him. He leads you through the Spirit and For example, who you should marry What you should study at University? He guides you in the everyday life while John 16:13 says: When the spirit of truth comes He for He will not speak on His own He will speak and He will declare We can see how the Holy Spirit came started to share the gospel in all and how Christianity just exploded throughout the Spirit will always lead you according to the And you need to understand that God is Spirit That means through the Spirit in you. John 4:24 says: God is Spirit and those who worship Him must (not should try... but must) You see, the normal person who does not know God, who who is not yet spiritually He does not have the Spirit and so he cannot spiritually discerned. 1 Corinthians 2:14: The natural person does not accept the folly to Him. And he is not able to understand But now you have the Spirit You can pray to Him and ask Him You can ask Him things like alright, Savior now what do you want me to do What should I study? What do you have in mind for me that you had before, you know, before you created the world? 1 Corinthians 2:11: For who knows a person's thoughts except the no one comprehends the thoughts Wow. So how do you do this practically? that you are a true, spiritually reborn Because there's a lot of people who think Jesus warns us clearly about this in Matthew 7. with only your soul, right, and your body, you Him in the flesh but it means absolutely Romans 8:9 says: You however are not in the flesh but in the Anyone who does not have the Spirit I'm saying this and telling you this with a this truth if you say that you're a Christian according to John 3:3, then you are not a You are not His child. my videos called Are You a True Christian You can watch it after this video. but if you know you're a Christian You can ask Him what His purpose is for you. received the right as children of God to Hebrews 4:16: Let us then with confidence draw we may receive mercy and find Now please understand that the big things and you shouldn't just give a quick Because you need to pray and pray and Until you have peace and discernment. what to do, then keep on praying. I prayed four years waiting for God to answer But you need to pray and wait on God. maybe even a few years. ready because he's still working on you. So maybe he's working on you so that you to be able to handle what He has in store for you. with God, you spend time in praying, you pray Matthew 7:7 says: Ask and it will be given to you. Knock and it will be opened to you. Ask - seek - knock. It's not just sending a quick prayer No, this is about having a relationship with And first of all you should deny yourself you should follow what God wants and not you. under the obedience of Jesus Christ and sometimes to answer from God and we want it now. In this time while you spend time in prayer, He builds faith. He takes certain things out that The sin or the things you're focused on. a little bit there, so that you can We just think about the end result, what we want. to work on our relationship with Him. that's also what we care about. because of what He can do for us. We want more of Him. I want to give you an example of breakthrough talk to God until He answers you and you can Matthew 15:22: And behold a Canaanite woman from So it shows that she was serious with God. When was the last time that you cried in She said have mercy on me O Lord, Son of David. But He did not answer her a word. You see this is the first response of God. And his disciples came and begged him saying, This is like the second answer for her. You might even go to a church and speak Verse 24: He answered, I was sent only to the So He's basically starting It might look like a no to a lot But look at what she did next. Verse 25: But she came and knelt before You can just see this woman crying, Lord help me. When was the last time you Prayer is just talking to God. Verse 26: And He answered it is not right to take the Again, a lot of people will She continued. Verse 27: She said yes Lord, yet even the dogs eat the Then Jesus answered her, O Be it done for you as you desire. Wow. for the disciples around Jesus and this woman for Sometimes we go through things But its not They need to see what is happening praying to God about something specific. well to understand how amazing God is and how our Now if you're still young in the faith and you're video How Does God Speak to Us. So with breakthrough prayer there will come Well then you obey Him. answers you apart from getting confirmation But you will also deepen your Spirit. Discernment and peace. Luke 11:28: But he said on the contrary, blessed are those who hear the Word of In other words, obey it. for success in your work life and your home Because everything you do is for the glory of God, for His kingdom. 1 Corinthians 10:31: So whether you eat or drink or whatever And that includes the work that you do. are different seasons in your life. you need to be content with whatever situation don't want to be here. But if God says that you have to be there, it because the reason He has you there Forms you into what He wants you to be, Paul said in Philippians 4:11: Not that I'm speaking of being in need for I have Paul says that he has learned it. have not learned that yet. complaining about everything. I know how to be brought low and I know how to learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger. I can do all things through You need to see your life not from your flesh. looks at it - meaning through the Spirit always. your attitude accordingly. understand that true peace does not come from the That your life now is Christ. are willing to go through to endure You need to be okay with going through the ups Philippians 4:6 says: Do not be anxious about anything supplication with Thanksgiving let You see this is about a You talk to God continually. while you shower, while you do Bible Everything now is a relationship And God doesn't want you just to go through He actually promises that when you talk walk in this relationship with Him, Because He will guard your heart and thoughts. Listen. And the peace of God which will guard your hearts and Now let me just explain this very quickly as well. fire for Christ suddenly they want to be But you need to ask God if It is His will for all of us to share our path that He wants us to talk to. to now go full-time into missionary work become a Christian counselor to help people work on farms providing food to eat for everyone Another example is there also needs women to help ministries financially. people and the list goes on. It is not of this world but We understand that and your role - the He's going to use you wherever you are planted. your life is not your own. precious blood of Jesus Christ on the cross. When you walk with Him, this is It is not this thing like, oh I want to well the sinful part and that self life you spiritual life where you receive all the spiritual That's where you need to be so Philippians 1: 21 says: For to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. So God will put the passion in your heart to do because that's what He's created you for, right? of God to do it in the Spirit for If everybody did that, this world Because it changes the way you talk to other It changes the way you work, Not being lazy. as if working for God so you're not that negative Colossians 3:23 says: Whatever you do, work heartily. knowing that from the Lord you will You are serving the Lord Christ. Now let me tell you this. do something in a different season of when He speaks, you can trust Him and act. make what you want a reality. You don't speak things into existence because But you can do so knowing that Now you obey Him so that means you don't have to to Matthew 6:33 because He will give you, His plan for your life. Now may the God of Peace who brought great Shepherd of the sheep by the blood of the that you may do His will working His sight through Jesus Christ, to Let me tell you I have never lacked anything since people and all nations. There's also other things He told me to do Yes there were hardships but I also and tribulations according to His word because And we say it so easily don't we. But then we kind of reject when we do No, He is Lord. We fully trust Him because and what He allows in your life, Philippians 4:13 says: I can do all things through If God tells you what to do, you will equip you and also give you the In other words, if you do it in But if you do it through God's power in you, You just need to make sure that you heard thoughts or even worse being deceived by the The devil has and still is misleading thousands Grinding away every day at work in watch TV, sport, or live in luxury. They don't realize that they that they are not shining their lights and then That is all they do for God. get fed but do nothing with it. who lack conviction, who are not committed to God. you still have your own will. There are many Christians who are lazy you leave everything and say alright, Tell me what to do and I'll do it. O, because you are lukewarm and neither mouth. Let me ask you - what are What have you been doing for Him this year? Have you actually asked Him? prayer - breakthrough prayer - where Or are you just doing whatever you want? Is this serious enough for you? Romans 12:2 says: Do not be conformed to this world but be that by testing you may discern Not the will of you - the will of God. What is good and acceptable and perfect. And Matthew 6:33 says: But seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness and all these Have you grown so used to the gospel that you are Is God your priority? There are thousands - 300,000 One of these days that might be you and are you what have you done with the time, the What will you tell Him? Bye.