The largest unreinforced concrete dome in It's not a modern marvel, but rather an years ago. So, if concrete structures from the western why does modern infrastructure look like this Hey I'm Grady and this is Practical Engineering. In today's episode, we're taking a look of concrete. This video is sponsored by Brilliant. More on that later. If you haven't seen the previous videos quick synopsis. We've talked about how concrete's made, that reinforcement can sometimes lead to deterioration. Concrete reinforced with steel bars is the The reinforcement is required to give the We use steel as reinforcement because of its availability, and low cost. But steel has an important weakness: it rusts. Not only does this corrosion reduce the strength iron oxide, expands. This expansion creates stresses in the concrete the complete loss of serviceability - i.e. In fact, corrosion of embedded steel reinforcement But it hasn't always been that way. The Romans got around this problem in a very concrete. Simple enough, right? They harnessed the power of a few clever structural to make sure sure that their concrete was minimizing the need for reinforcement. One of those clever tricks was just making literally, because the simplest way to keep on top of it, for example, more concrete. We use this trick in the modern age as well. Most large concrete dams are gravity or arch geometry for stability. In both gravity and arch dams, the shape of the water pressure using their own weight. You can see how they get larger, the deeper So, even with the tremendous pressure of the stresses in the concrete, and thus no need But lack of steel reinforcement isn't the have lasted for so long. One of the other commonly-cited suggestions chemistry. Maybe they just had a better recipe for their and now those of us in the modern era are In fact, in 2017, scientists found that indeed used in ancient roman concrete structures aren't normally found in modern concrete. But that's not to say that we can't make In fact, the science of concrete recipes, levels a Roman engineer could only dream of. One of most basic, but also most important of water to cement. I did an experiment in a previous video that as you add more water. Extra water dilutes the cement paste in the The Romans knew about the importance of this In historical manuscripts, Roman architects to have as little water as possible, then tools. Interestingly enough, we have a modern process Roller Compacted Concrete uses similar ingredients water, creating a very dry mix. Rather than flowing into place like a liquid, then compacted into place using vibratory RCC mixes also usually include ash, another It's a very common construction material its high strength and low cost. Again, these are usually unreinforced structures strength. But, not everything can be so massive that Modern structures like highway overpasses reinforced concrete. So, generally we like our concrete to be more It's easier to work with. It flows through pumps and into the complex more easily. So, one way we get around this water content admixtures, special substances that can be Water reducing admixtures, sometimes called of the concrete mix. This allows concrete to remain workable with of the cement so that the concrete can cure I mixed up three batches of concrete to demonstrate In this first one, I'm using the recommended Notice how the concrete flows nicely into or compaction. After a week of curing, I put the sample under it can withstand before breaking. This is a fairly standard test for concrete lab in my garage so take these numbers with The sample breaks at around 2000 psi or 14 for 7-day-old concrete. For the next batch, I added a lot less water. You can see that this mix is much less workable. It doesn't flow at all. It takes a lot of work to compact it into However, after a week of curing, the sample It didn't break until I had almost maxed For this final batch, I used the exact same You can see that it doesn't flow at all. It would be impossible to use this in any But watch what happens when I add the superplasticizer. Just a tiny amount of this powder is all it easily in my hand. In many cases, you can get a workable concrete But most importantly, under the press, this despite being just as viscous as batch 1. The miracle of modern chemistry has given to improve the characteristics of concrete So why does it seem that our concrete doesn't It's a complicated question, but one answer There's a famous quote that says "Anyone It takes an engineer to build one that barely Just like the sculptors job is to chip away like the subject, a structural engineer's of a structure that aren't necessary to And, lifespan is just one of the many criteria structures. Most infrastructure is paid for by taxes, is rarely impossible, but often beyond what But, as we discussed, the technology of concrete Maybe today's concrete will outlast that We'll have to wait 2000 years before we Thank you for watching, and let me know what Thanks to Brilliant for sponsoring this video. In my career as an civil engineer, I'm constantly and often that means learning new skills. Recently, I've been using Brilliant to brush Civil engineers work on projects that can anticipate risks and estimate their probability Brilliant starts you with the fundamentals to help you master each concept at your own I find that I learn best when I can apply problems you can work in each lesson. To support this channel, go to brilliant.org/practicalengineering The first 200 people will get 20% off the Again, thank you for watching, and let me