You, white king, listen, I will beat you badly today. Look at my pieces. Um... I also have the same pieces, only the color is different. But I have a special - What is that? I'm getting tired of the bishop era. - Horsey, kill the knight. He is protected by the queen. The horsey is under attack, though. But how do I convince the king? Hey, King... What, woman? Can't you see I am busy thinking for a tactic? Well, you can move the simp there so on the next move you can move the horsey and put an attack on that night. I can feel something is wrong, Queen, go there, so when I move that Fine. Huh, you are planning to attack me, but you haven't thought this true. If your horsey kills my horsey, our queen will revenge and I will be protected Damn it. But, horsey, you are a valuable piece. So go to that safe square. As you say, sire. - You, pawn in the corner, move. But why are you moving this pawn? You don't have that much brain to understand long-term games. My goals are way beyond your understanding, but I will explain anyway. - Do you see that simp over there? Now his diagonal He can come and pin the horsey to the queen. If the pawn pushes himself, he will prevent the Bishop from coming here. So, did you understand? - Yes. I just want to break the castle. Damn, he can pin our horsey too in I should move this pawn. You do realize that I can't pin this knight Then we will push this pawn and attack you. Oh sh*t, you pawn come here and protect this square so his pawn can't come. Okay. Come if you dare. Looks like we can't attack that bishop by pushing this pawn. So you pawn go and then we will push this pawn. D*mn, he didn't push this pawn. - Rook, come here. - Bishop, go there. I will move there so the bishop will be aimed directly at their horsey and only that pawn is giving him protection which means that pawn won't be able to move forward and give the bishop protection. Complicated idea, but whatever. No! That pawn is getting attacked! I better block the way. Dude, why would I attack the pawn. Besides, you were already protecting the pawn from there. Anyway, I have to launch an attack on the You horsey move. I will push the spawn and queen will go there and there. What's with these super complicated plans? Aww, look at that cute king. Do you want to understand chess plans? Huh? Shut the f*ck up! This is going nowhere. Bishop, go give the horsey protection. Hey, I have an idea to win a pawn. Horsey, go there. Hey, white king, let's exchange pieces. Then your pawn takes back and after a random move you will kill the pawn. Then I will kill him personally. - Rook, come here and give him protection. How dare you? and you still didn't move him? Sorry, but you are not interesting enough Offense this, b*tch. - LMAO, I didn't kill him. But you've peed in your pants, I'm sure. Anyway, hello, bishop. Hello, knight. Sh*t, the woman is here and targeting But I am defending him, though. Shut up, you don't count, the weakest piece of sh*t. Then you don't count too 'cause you are defending him and saying he is defenseless. Don't ever argue with me again. Okay. I have an idea. Now the woman won't be able to come here anymore and then with your protection I can attack Hehe, I am a genius. - Not today. - Die. Why does that quote sound familiar? You killed my simp. As long as I'm better than everyone else, I You know nothing. Battery battery batterungus. King, can I kill him now? No, pawn, if you kill him, that rook will kill my rook. I will be in check, so rook has to kill him and then the other black rook kills my rook. I will lose both of my rooks and they will lose only one. - Okay. Now that I am uncheckable, For the empire. But you did one miscalculation. - King, just give me the order. This was not miscalculated. Pawn, do it. D*mn it, this pawn has the audacity to attack me? Sire, save me or give me the permission to kill him, or I will die. My life is more important than yours. Everything is going right according to my plan. Now do your thing, rook. - Yay, we won a rook. You are under attack again. No, you die. - Horsey, revenge. Checky checky check check. Check chuck. How dare you attack our king? - Horsey. Holy f*cking sh*t. Even though we are up in materials, white is winning. White is not winning. But you can't. Chill, queen. - Checky checky again. But you did not notice when I checked your king I also attacked your rooky boy. No, not the rooky boy. Chill, if she goes, the horsey will hang. He won't let his queen hang the horsey. Yes, queen, protect the horsey at any Please, don't leave me alone. Meh. B*tch. Nooo. Checkity checkity check. It's not finished yet. Pawn, go. - Kill me. Checky check checky check. At this rate, this will be draw again. It's my chance. Pawn, block the check. Sh*t, looks like I got no more checks left for him. Only if I could get rid of that backward pawn. Save this chick first. Phew, now I can kill the pawn. You can't if I do this. Sh*t sh*t sh*t. - What happened? It's about what will happen. I should go and attack the backward pawn again. LMAO, pawn, check him. LMAO back. Checkmate. What?