Okay, so two weeks ago I made this video, with this distance. They can't stop your car sooner. And I got an that the statement in the video title is untrue present in big brake kits do in fact reduce leverage on the wheel hub. A larger disc puts the the center and this increases your leverage which then stops the car sooner because you have pretty emotional and worked up about the video. if a video about brakes can get you this worked help to try and resolve the underlying issues of comments I decided that a response, a these things up and explain in more detail So as you can see I'm in a car and I'm driving around As you may have noticed I've just locked up the is an absolutely tiny, the opposite of a sports It has 247 millimeter discs in the front and drum brakes in the comments section might choose to describe that stock systems on vehicles are somehow weak This is untrue and has been untrue for the past pretty much all the countries in the world have much braking force a particular vehicle must amount of braking force defined is always This was taken a step further in 2004 in Europe United States where ABS together with electronic cars sold in Europe and in the United States. And you must have more than enough braking force to lock up the wheel so that the anti-lock system can come into play And even if your country isn't then it's probably a signatory uh United Nations Economic and Social Council they clearly define it and they also define the the braking system so no matter how much money impossible to go out and purchase a vehicle Of course this legislation isn't surprising because brakes when it comes to safety being able to stop is annual or bi-annual vehicle registration for even a hint of a malfunction on brake systems. extremely rare. I'm sure that as car or motorcycle malfunctions with our vehicles. Anything from But I'm certain that the percentage complete braking system failure while driving or I know they don't look like much but get the job done. So that's point number one: A lack Point number two is that increasing that braking and that is because your tires are the only point They're the only thing touching the capabilities of your tires, then increasing brake Once you overcome what the tires can do there's nothing trying to walk on ice and they keep falling of the leg muscles would help the person keep the better sense of balance, and this too can be sort changing things on your suspension can overcome what the tires can do then increasing force or increased leverage cannot reduce your every car you can purchase has more than enough This is why we have ABS. Now many people did in the comments section of the previous video, but in many the argument was a single subjective personal &quot;I bought a big brake kit for my insert car here and I can Now I get this on my channel a lot, some example and experience somehow constitutes a Of course we know that isn't the case. But I'll go out testing of your old versus your new brake system. and then took the average of them. I'll believe similar ambient conditions. I'll assume all a used brake system versus a brand new one. Maybe Maybe you had brake pads and discs worn out of spec. Maybe degraded deformed rubber brake lines. Many it performs and feels, and then all of them get from the comments on my previous video that friction strength. But a much more sensible Because that's what breaks on cars and When you try to stop your car with your brakes what That's what your brakes do, and then they Here's an interesting piece of information: during a single braking instance from a speed of of water in just 3 seconds. All stock systems on much heat at least four to five times before you can accelerate from 0 to 90. Panic break to And repeat this cycle at least four times And even once brake fade starts it will be small to the point where they can't lock up the wheels This means that driving on the street cannot overheat In fact if you ever need multiple panic breaks in a row while very wrong with your driving. Now we're going the extent to which modern cars don't have McLaren Senna. This is an 800 horsepower hyper car It has 390 millimeter discs and six piston 0 to 100 kilometers per hour in just 2.6 seconds. It has 280 millimeter discs and single piston floating from 0 to 100 kilometers per hour in just under which has 247 millimeter discs and single 0 to 100 kilometers per hour in 14.2 seconds. in brake systems and acceleration times, but not The Senna manages to come to a stop from a speed of manages 33.8 meters and the Aygo manages 35 meters. brake discs than the Aygo and it has six times the faster from 0 to 60 than the Aygo. But it is only available with 1.5 liter engines in some markets What's interesting is that almost all tests measured or slightly shorter braking distances for the behind this is that the models with the smaller Something else you might be more wondering about is the weight of our three vehicles, and it is pretty similar across all three cars So why is this the case? Why doesn't a cheap a little city car? The reason is that limit of braking force. Getting to a stop from 100 and this in turn exposes you to forces of driver can sustain on their body and still retain than capable of making vehicles with ridiculous Which is Ferrari's Formula One car for the 2004 season, just 16 meters. That's more than 2 G's of force. athletes capable of taking these loads easily. On drivers lose control of their vehicle. In fact, F1 braking hard from high speeds. That's the sort In fact if you look at the average braking they don't differ that much from each other. Hyper distances not because they have the biggest most favorable ratio of weight to tire size and because they need big heat sinks to dissipate the from the kinds of speeds that hyper cars can be capable of some serious track duty. As I said a brake upgrade should be considered is when you stock brakes. The kind of driving that is required public roads and will lead to an accident within driving is one of the few instances that require a manage to get the brakes hot enough to reach and of braking performance due to overheating. If have not reached the limits of its performance In fact most sports and sporty cars will be fine Most hot hatches today come out of the factory with the owners can actually do on the track. The other if you dramatically increase the mass of your The only other scenario where a brake upgrade increasing the power output of your vehicle. For 68 horsepower 1KR-FE Engine with let's say a Toyota top speed would likely increase from the stock Obviously the stock braking system is be generated during repeated braking from much your brakes is a good idea. I believe that one of positive attitude towards upgrades and mods and many of us grew up playing games like Need for the absolute starting point or the rock bottom of &quot;upgrade&quot; to anything on the car yields some sort of your top speed or your acceleration or handling. companies in the aftermarket who often try to inadequate or poorly designed. The &quot;poorly designed&quot; is especially offensive when you take into account that OEMs have giant budgets and can afford to to create parts which fit the widest range of that 90% of car enthusiasts fit within hatch can perform well. And 90% of car experience to harness even close to the limits we can often see people today buying a brand extensively from day one, without ever getting recreating the same scenario from the games we to be patronizing and there's absolutely nothing I'm 100 supportive of anyone doing anything There's of course nothing wrong with and filling out the wheel and doing something you need to do from a functional perspective is an brake upgrades would likely end up very much near upgrades for a car that is trying to reach ever The other potential issue is that brake upgrades are the big fixed multi-piston calipers on a car that dramatically upset things like your brake feel the ratio between your stock master cylinder and definitely improve brake feel near the limit of but getting this ratio wrong can result in breaks and offer very poor brake modulation. But as we different master cylinders. It's just brackets, hydraulic ratios and brake bias is up to you. By like brake bias, proportioning valves and master the future. Let me know if you want to see some to the video let's come back to the issue leverage from a larger brake disc. For a moment braking force to lock up the wheels and that we how much can they increase the braking force? Well the of braking torque from discs we can usually not increase them more than limited by how much brake disc we can squeeze the brake caliper into account. And increasing increases the braking torque by only about 50 Nm. This is a less than what you need to tighten the cylinder head bolts on most engines. with a pretty small lever. And when you put it car that's moving at high speeds then 50 Nm of extra torque really is negligible and doesn't change things much. A different example force is bicycles. We have 26, 27, 28 inch wheels and center of the wheel and rim brakes which are on And this is why rim brakes on bicycles can offer the augmentation of that force provided by have this luxury. We have to fit everything inside force significantly with larger brake discs. of braking for the driver, because a circle is from the center, the driver may perceive increased get the wheels to lock up. However, the braking you go some numbers and data to hopefully offer not as simple and intuitive as one might think. thanks all for watching and I'll be seeing you