- Hey, how ya holding up? - Not too bad. - Hey, you let me know if - I will. - I got a few guys at work, they're gonna help me - Okay. - Okay, just take your time. I'll see ya later. - All right. - [John] How ya doing son? - [Dave] Good. - [John] I love you. - I love you. I don't want this Dad. - Take it Dave, read it. - I don't need it. - Dave, read it for me, please. You go home and get some rest. If you need anything, - Okay. (melancholy music) - Hey Dad, you ready, Dad? - Yeah, I'll be there in a minute. (dramatic music) - [Steven] Dad, Dad, wake up, it's 7:30. (Dave yawns) You gonna shower or what? - No, no time. - Well, all right. Just don't forget to pick me up, okay? - I won't. - Don't forget. (melancholy music) All right, I'll see ya. - Bye. (melancholy music) Hey Steven, your dad didn't show up again? - No, shocker. - Oh well, come on. I'll give ya ride. - Oh really, all right. - Yep. - Thanks, I appreciate it. - [Maggie] He forgot you again? - Yeah, I mean, I haven't been How hard is it to remember - Well, did you say something? - No, what am I suppose to say? I mean, I don't even know how to help him. First it was my birthday, and now he can't even remember to pick me up from work for a few days. - Keeping quiet isn't You can't keep complaining about your dad, and expecting things to change. - I know. Well, you know, that's him now. - Just don't be angry. Arguing hasn't gotten you anywhere lately. - I won't. I'll talk to you later, okay? - Bye. - Supper time, Maggie. Are they still having problems? - We need to keep praying for them. - [Steven] You're home early. - Yeah, I have some paperwork. - Did you forget anything today? - Oh, I'm sorry. - You're way too busy. - I'm not too busy, I just forgot. - Dad, I found you asleep How many hours of sleep over the last couple of months? How many things have you forgotten to do? - Steven, what about the chores I have a lot going on. - Yeah, so do I. Look, I know it's hard to pay the bills, but you can't just be going-- - Paying the bills? You don't have a clue I work like crazy around here. I mean, we can't even My income is half of what it used to be. Come on Steven, cut me some slack. - Fine, I'll find another ride home. (dramatic music) Why are we building this thing again? - It's for our riding mower, tools, and of course my secret stash of snacks. You know your mother. She's like a seagull at a picnic. (Steven laughs) - [Steven] You and Mom are always arguing over whose snacks are whose. - [Dave] Hey, she ate hers - [Steven] Oh, okay. - [Jen] Hey, I heard that. - [Dave] You heard what? - [Jen] That I'm the snack thief (laughs). - [Steven] I didn't say - [Steven] You know, you two are exactly like - Ah, married yes, old, not. (Steven laughing) - Listen. - [Steven] Hey, ow. (Jen laughing) - Anyways hon. - Can I help, seriously Dave? I really do. - Let's make it a family thing. - Yeah, we haven't, we as a family in a long time, really Steven. - We really haven't. - [Steven] Except push - I really wanna help, you know. All kidding aside. - Hey son, you've, you've - Not yet. - [Steven] Not really, I don't know. - (laughing) Well, here's Let's, let's have cheers to the project. - [Steven] Here we go, the Corwin project. - All right, cheers. (Jen gasps) (telephone ringing) Hi, you've reached Dave, Jen, and Steven. We can't come to the phone right now, but please don't hang up, leave a message, and we'll call you back. Thank you and have a great day. (phone beeping) - [Brian] Hi David, this is Brian Johnson It's urgent that you call me regarding your mortgage account with us. If you can give me a call at I would appreciate it. Have a good day, goodbye. (melancholy music) You can rescue me I know I'm freed by your blood Freed by your majesty My Savior and my King You've given me a choice You've given me a destiny And I can't explain it And I can't control it I don't understand it all 'Cause this changes everything Everything about me now, everything Your love is captivating my soul - To this you are called, because Christ suffered for you. Leaving you an example that you should follow in His footsteps. He committed no sin, and no When they hurled their insults When He suffered, He made no threats. Instead he entrusted Himself Now, here you see Jesus making and going out of His way to do so. Even if He has to suffer We know that we should be an example. We know that we should Yet, so often we don't, so I want you guys to think about this. There are people out there that are lost and are going to hell, and yet most times we won't lift a finger to be an example for them or to save them. We're just plain scared, and I'll be honest with you. Making a commitment to but you know what? When we have God with us, He can help us get through that fear, and even if we are scared, He's gonna do something in spite of it. He'll do great things through us. But here's the thing, we and I charge you guys here, that if you're willing to do that, yes, it will be tough, yes, you will suffer, but God will make an awesome result. We'll know no matter what we go through it's all for His better purpose. - Hey, Dad. - [Dave] Hmm? - Um, look, I wanted to apologize for uh, how I came down on you yesterday. I, I know things have been hard recently, and um, you've got a lot on your plate, and you've been doing the best you can, and you deserve better. - Okay, all right. - Are you gonna go to church tomorrow? - Nah, I don't think so. - Well, I mean come on, you haven't been there in months Dad. - No. - Look Dad, you really, you've been working I mean, you don't even-- - I'm not going in there again. - Will you just trust me? I mean, can't you just trust me for once? - Fine. - All right, I'll wake Um, yeah, make sure - [Dave] I just don't get this God thing. - He's changed my life - See what? I'm here, I'm real, this house is real. Where's God? I don't see Him. I'm right here. - No, I see you, but I see us We've been around this block You haven't even been giving it a chance. We do the best we can in You know, we try to come You know, to, to get along, and be with our separate groups but I can't, I can't fake God is first in my life Dave, I can't change that. - No. (dramatic music) - Hey, you know what? I'll see you inside, okay? - Sure. - Hey, hey. - Oh hey. - Hey. - So, you got him to come. - [Steven] Oh, yeah (chuckles). - He looks so nervous though. - Yeah um, not surprised. I mean, he really hasn't - [Maggie] Yeah. (congregation chattering) - Hey Dad, you ready, Dad? (Bible thuds) - Folks, God is a God of love. He wants all of us to be saved, and He demonstrates this Giving us His kindness, His Yet, if we're honest with ourselves we don't usually respond to go to heaven by His acts of kindness. No, are you kidding? What do we do? Why, when things are going great? We don't need God. We've become our own god. We are self-sufficient. Why, He's the last thing on our mind, and yet, even after all that, out of mercy God will still allow a few difficulties, but to arouse us. He will do whatever it takes so that you and I don't Even if that includes difficulties. Why, because He loves us. - [Dave] What kind of garbage is that? - Well, just let me explain it to you. - Explain, explain it then. - Oh, I will. He meant to say God was sovereign. - Sovereign, God's sovereign? - Yeah. - He took your mother, he took my wife. That never seemed to bother ya. How can you let something like that slide? Then you sit there and Where is this plan of someone dying? - I don't know. - [Dave] Where's God's - I don't know! Okay, I don't know His plan, but I know and I trust that He has one! He, oh, Mom knew that okay? Why can't you? - You know what? The church stuff, I don't I don't wanna hear about what Pastor talked about last Sunday. - Dad. - And your praying, and your Bible, do it when I'm not around, I'm done. (melancholy music) - No, he's not. Yeah, no, he doesn't even I've, I've tried though. (Steven sighs) Yeah, no, but that's the thing. He, he, he won't even I've talked, no, I've tried that. I've, yeah, I, yeah, I've tried that. I just, I'm no, I'm just It feels like it's even beyond Yeah, no, I don't, I don't see (melancholy music) (Dave crying) (melancholy music) Hey, is Pastor free? - It's very, very difficult Lord. Help me to be the example Father, I need your strength We're falling apart Lord, and only you can save this marriage. I need you, Lord, I need your strength. I can't do this anymore. - Hey, do you have a moment? - [Pastor] Yeah sure, come on in. - [Dave] Well, see what she thinks. - [Shawn] You got the estimate? - [Dave] Yeah. - [Shawn] Wow, that's - [Dave] Water damage isn't cheap Shawn. - [Shawn] This much though? - [Dave] It is what it is. - Dave, if this happened to you, you couldn't even afford it. - Tell me about it. - I can't pay this. Why is it so much? - Ma'am, I can't fix your - But, I don't have this kind of money. I can't pay this all in one shot. Maybe I could make payments. - I can't except payments right now. I need payment if full Listen, you think about Give me a call and let me know. If I don't hear from ya, I'll assume you got somebody - I called everybody else in It took a week just to get you guys here. What am I supposed to do? - It is what it is. Let us know. - [Shawn] You we're a little You could've loosened it up. - Shawn, I have bills to - Yeah, you're right. Speaking of bills. I kind of got my eye on If we get it, it'll get you - [Dave] Hey, in that - I hope we get a job like this. It's something we both need. - [Dave] Ah, we'll be fine. - [Shawn] Yeah, if you say so. - Well, that's a lot - [Steven] Hmm. - Have you told your - Um, we spoke on the phone a few times, but not besides that, no. - You know, you might wanna because after all, if anybody knows your dad, it's gonna be your grandfather. - I know. (melancholy music) - My Dad is so lost. I just, I don't know how to fix things. - Steven, your Dad has been stubborn since the day he was born. I couldn't get him to mow the grass, let alone do his homework. You can't fix anything. - Then what am I suppose - I didn't say you were powerless. I said you can't fix things for him. - Well, then what am I supposed to do? If he doesn't get it, how am - You're accountable for Not for what your father does. God cares about what's I'm an old man, I've made my decisions. Your father's made his decisions, and you have to make yours. - But what if I don't - We don't always know, but we can read God's word and trust Him to give us the guidance to make the right decision. Whatever it is. (light piano music) In desperation I fall to my knees Wanting just for you to break me From the chains that I keep laying On a hope that you have made to be free So come rescue me (upbeat guitar music) I don't understand What you have planned But can you help me now To escape from a life I built on my own Just save me, raise me The Messiah, come and take my hand I want you to lead me Across this very land tonight, tonight (light piano music) Tonight Tonight Tonight Tonight Tonight Tonight Tonight Tonight Tonight Tonight Tonight (light piano music) - So, how's he doing? (Steven scoffs) What? - Well, he's not getting any sleep. He's constantly moving 24/7. - Well, it's been a rough month, but you haven't given up yet. - Yeah, but that doesn't mean it's easy, and it's not like he's but I can't watch him and I know I should be praying and I am, but I mean, I just don't Something has got to come soon. There's has to be I don't know, I'm losing - Well, you've been able God sends the answer in (light piano music) - What am I gonna do? - What is this Dave? Another checking account? Is this how you bought the motorcycle? - Yeah, it is. - And when were you gonna tell me? - I wasn't. - And you wonder what's - I didn't think it would - You don't tell me This is like lying to my face. - You know what? This is mine. - Dave, we're in trouble, and you're just not getting it. I can't fix us anymore and I don't know what to do. I need, I need to leave, I (knocking on door) - [Policeman] Dave Corwin? (picture thuds) (dramatic music) - No. (dramatic music) (Bible thuds) (melancholy music) - [Jen] Steven, Jesus is the As you study your Bible and seek the Lord, I pray that the power of His word would change and transform your life as much as it has mine. All my love, Mom. (melancholy music) - Lord, I've messed up so bad. I'm so angry. Why did you have to take her from me? I can't do things myself anymore. I need you to help me. I need you to run my life. I'm tired of being worried and afraid. I have more bills than My own son loves me so much, and I don't know how to love him back, and I know that you love me. If you want my life, take it. It's all yours. (melancholy music) - Hey, what's up? - Steven, can I talk to you for a minute? I haven't been a very good I've been foolish, angry. I've been very wrong. Last night I told God to uh, that if He wanted this life to take it. So many times you, you I threw it right back in Things are gonna be different and I hope you can forgive me, and I love you very much son. (light guitar music) (moves into upbeat music) - Wow, Dave this is awesome. This is amazing. Do you realize how many times Jen and I prayed in this This is amazing what God is doing, and now you have the promise from God that the goodbye that you is now a temporary one. When your time comes and it's coming, it's coming for each one of us, you're gonna go to heaven, but who you gonna see in heaven Dave? You're gonna see Jen again, and that's why the Bible says Of course we do, I mean, we're human, but we do not grieve as One day, the Bible says, we will see our loved one in heaven again. Isn't that amazing? - Yeah, you know, I, Jen tried to tell me about and Jen was so faithful. You know, I'd look at her and like, ah, this is, she's doing She's doing the right thing. I mean, look at my son Steven. You know him, you know him very well. The example is right in front of me. My wife and my son. You know, and she just kept pushing me and just try to keep encourage me, and they kept trying to encourage me, but I'd get in my truck, go off to work, and I know it's not gonna be easy, but you know, the peace It's gonna be better. My relationship with Steven, it's gonna be much stronger. As time goes there will be change. Hey, did you guys make all this stuff? - Yeah, pretty much. - You gonna be around later on? - Um, I have a little uh, but I shouldn't be too much longer. Why, did you have something in mind? What? (upbeat guitar music) Merciful Father The Almighty King Wonderful Savior And Lord of everything For you hold all power All glory and honor You alone You alone are worthy You alone - You really like it at - Yeah, I love it. You know, Mom loved ministry. She didn't really get that much but when she did, that was where she wanted to be. - Man, I miss her. - Yeah, I know, me too. - How'd you put up with I mean, anybody else - I couldn't, I mean, I wanted to. There were definitely a lot of times where I was angry and frustrated with you, and but I knew even if I did give up Jesus wouldn't have. - I'm proud of you. No, I am. I've done some things that I wouldn't even forgive people for, and you've stuck by my and I respect you for that. - Thanks. - I have something to tell you. - What? - We're in danger of - How? - Things got crazy when your Mom died. I mean, the funeral debt. That's a lot of money. You know, I didn't realize it until we had to take care of it. I didn't realize how slow I was this year. It just didn't, our I wasn't keeping track. I wasn't really checking You know, your Mom, she was Helping out whenever she could. I mean, even working at the hospital, she brought in half our income. You know, I didn't really wanna tell ya. I was afraid that I'd scare ya. - This is why you've been so - Yeah. I thought it would give Give me a little bit of time Shawn knows somebody that's involved, so I hope it gives us the upper hand. - How was your weekend? - It was life changing. - Yeah? Mine wasn't so amazing. I went shopping on Sunday. Completely forgot I left Shredded apart our living room couch. - (chuckles) Bet you had - (laughs) Yeah, it was a fun time. I thought my wife was gonna faint. She came home and there I really can't stand dogs. - Kids ain't no picnic either. - Do I got water in here? - Yeah, it's in the front there. - Well, kids ain't no picnic. I know that man. We ain't ready yet. Well, I'm not ready. - What's up? - What's with the Bible? - I just started reading it. - You're not gonna start - Preaching on you? - Yeah, my parents tried the whole time growing up. Never bought into it. - You never told me that before. - I guess I shouldn't. It's really nothing, but bad memories. You know, I don't even My Mom will call every once in awhile. Check up on me, give me That's about it. - His condition? - He's got something wrong with his heart. I don't know what it is. He's been in the hospital a - Wow, you never told me that Shawn. - I'll get around to calling him sometime. - Sometime? - Can we just change the subject? - Sure. I barely got a word out of my mouth. I didn't get anywhere with him. - Hmm, okay. I mean, don't let that discourage you. So you didn't hit a home run the first time you went Show me one Christian who has - Still, it feels like I'll never be able to talk - What're you kidding me? It'll be easier. Conversations like this before you go into it again. Trust me, it's a good thing. - Who's the parent, me or you? - I think we both know who (both chuckle) Oh hey uh, by the way, um, there's a practice for so you should drop by, check it out. - I won't have much time, - Yeah, why not? - We're gonna find out if we get that job. - Oh, so tomorrow's the big day, huh? - Yeah, and actually, I'm - Oh, don't be, you'll be fine. - Okay, what I want you to Very good reading, I love it. Okay, a little bit of Here's what you've gotta all these people have to see you, okay? - Can I stand more over here then? - [Director] No, more over here. - I think if we just move (light piano music) - Oh hey, you made it. - Yeah, I'm, I'm here. Hey, you and Maggie, you guys have been hanging - Yeah? - Come on. - No, what do you mean? - I know there's something more - Okay, no, no Dad. Whatever you think you see, no. - Steven, you're my son. I've known you for a long time. - Okay, would you keep your voice down? - I see the way you're looking at her. - We are just friends. - Have you talked to her? I mean, really talked to her? - I, no, I have it, okay? I'm not sure really how to say it. I just, I don't know, I'm afraid of making it weird. - Weird, there's nothing You guys have been friends forever. It's not like your relationship's gonna fall apart overnight. - Yeah, okay, thanks. - What are you gonna do? She's, hey I like her, - We'll be fine. Don't you have a job to do or something? - I'll see ya later, all right? - All right, I'll see ya. - Hey, remember you're not 10. Talk to Maggie. I'll see ya. - [Kevin] Dave, Dave Corwin? - Yes. - Ah, am I glad I caught you. My name's Kevin. - Hi, how ya doing? - Well, hopefully better My sister, she called, she's She has some structural problems, and I was wondering if to go look at it and help her. - Well, what exactly is the damage? Did she say? - Well, she said she's It's leaking down into her kitchen, and it's destroying her drywall, and it's just sitting up there. She had some guy come over, and he tried to burn her on some price, but I was just wondering if you would have some - Well, there's a house addition I'm trying to make that priority. I'm not expecting a phone Is it possible I can stop over there now? - Oh Dave, that would be great. Here, I wrote her name and address down. I really appreciate it. - [Dave] No problem. - I gotta go, my daughter's - Sarah. - So, how'd we do? - Um, really good actually. Um, everyone's doing really well. How many more practices do you have? - Uh, three I think, but I'm so nervous. - Oh, don't be. Like seriously, every, you - You think so? - Oh yeah, definitely. I mean, it's, you're gonna be in front of your church family anyway, so I mean if you mess up, it's better to mess up in front of them. You know, people you care about, right? - Not as embarrassing. - Come on Maggie, let's go. - What's the rush? - My Mom and I are going shopping, so I better get going. - Sure, okay, I'll see you later then. - Bye. - [Steven] All right, bye. - Lord, why did you bring me here? (telephone ringing) Hello. - Dave, I got awesome news. It's my cousin. He knows the people getting He suggested us and they said, well hey, if we want it, we can have it. - I can't come. - But if we stall, they might cancel. You realize how important this is? - You know Sarah's house? The one we were a little harsh with? - You mean the one you were harsh with. - Forget it Shawn. Is there anyway you can - All right, you can I'll get the paperwork and stuff situated. I'll tell them something. - Meet me at Sarah's You're not that far away. - What're you even doing there? - Don't worry about it. Just get down here. - Unbelievable. - I don't know why he sent you here. I can't pay you, I told you that already. - Is this the damage here, ma'am? - Yeah, that's it. Now that the damage is done, and now it's gonna cost (light piano music) - This is what we're gonna do. I know another contractor, does the same thing that we do. He'll be over here in to take care of it for you. We're gonna do it for free. - Free, are you serious? - My company will take care of it, and I'll give him a call as I leave. - Thank you. - Okay, we'll talk to you later. (light orchestral music) I need to get this done for I appreciate it. Okay, thanks Joe. - What's up with you? I'm about to land you the job of the year, and you go and completely bail on me. - Shawn, I had something - What's more important than that job? How about those bills that you need paid? You don't realize how lucky you are that they gave you an extra day. - I know, but I felt God wanted me here. - Oh come on. What's been with you? First, I find the Bible on your truck, and now you give up on a and for what? Why are you here anyways? - Because I'm supposed to make this right. - So, she has problems. Her problems wouldn't be this bad, if you hadn't been so - That's why we're fixing it for free. - You never did stuff - I'm different now. - Yeah, you are. (light piano music) - Shawn, from now on, we're gonna honor the - You know what? You're getting no less Talking about God and Jesus. I'm outta here. - [Dave] Shawn. - Call me when you get your brain back. - Shawn, Shawn! (light piano music) - So what's going on? - Um, well, the reason I I wanted to ask you something. - Okay. - I was wondering uh (chuckles). - Take your time. - Um, if um, if it uh, if I could um. - Is this about you and Maggie? - Um, yes, sir. - Look son, we've watched you and Maggie grow up since you were small kids, right? You've been a part of the We truly believe if you and get to know her You're just the man for the job. - Thanks. (Maggie sighs) - What're you doing here? - Uh, we were just talking about sports, and our favorite teams, and how well they play when Um, I'll see you later then. - All right, talk to you in a bit. - We'll finish, yeah, okay. Uh, good talking with you. We'll uh, we'll talk later, okay? I'll see you guys. - Okay, I'll talk to you later. - [Steven] All right, bye. (light orchestral music) - It shouldn't be that hard. It shouldn't be this hard. (horn blowing) Oh man. - Hey. - What's up? - I wanted to apologize for earlier. I said a few things I - Don't worry about it, it's okay. - No, no it's not. I let my past get me all wrapped up, and I took it out on you. - You need to let the past go Shawn. I of all people should know that. - But it's not just that. You're my best friend. I really wanted to see Then you go and take a chance like this. I mean, did you really have - That's where God wanted me at that time. I couldn't say no. - How come I've never - Because for the longest You know, I didn't get it. She continually tried to tell and you know, over and over. I didn't wanna listen. You know, she'd go to church. She always had this big smile on her face. It was like glowing, and I couldn't get it. I didn't understand. You know, it kind of made me angry to really think that than I had in life. I resented that. You know, I think Shawn, was I felt that she needed, she needed Him, Jesus, - Yeah, well hey listen, I - Hey, that's all right. Thanks for coming over to talk. - I'll see you at work tomorrow. - Yeah, by the way, tell I haven't seen her in awhile. - Hey, will do. Have a good night. - [Steven] Was it as bad as you thought? - I was terrified when he showed up. I thought he was gonna come over here and yell at me again or something. - Yeah, well, see what - Hey, so how's Maggie? - Oh Dad, come on. - Come on, you can't - I um, I spoke with her father. - Dan, you talked to Dan? - Yeah, I figured if I I might as well make sure - What'd he say? - Oh, he accepted me and said that he would - You see what worrying gets you? - Yeah, so anyway, you gonna go to the - What time? - It's 6:30 I think. - Okay, tomorrow I'm gonna and then after today, I definitely have to I have to have that job. - Oh yeah, yeah. By the way, that was What you did with that family. I mean, that took some guts. - Thanks, I've never taken - Yeah, that's why it's called faith. - Yes, I got the letter. Well, I thought I'd have more time. Yes, how much time do I really have here? Is there anything else I can do? You too, mm hmm. Yeah, bye. - Son, it's just a house. There's more to a family. - Yeah, but that was Jen's house. That was our home. Maybe we'll get to keep it. I just wish I had the answer now. (John chuckles) What? - I talked to Steven about the same thing. We don't always have the answers, but we have the ability to go to the one who does have the answers, who can not always give us or how we want it, but we can trust that he - Wish I believed that when Mom died. - Well, that, that was the I wondered if God was even there. If He even knew my hurt, but He did. He did, He was there. He used her death to show that He loved me. - You know, when Jen died, I blamed myself, because all she wanted to do was talk. She just wanted to let and who she really wanted to be. I didn't want anything to do with it. You know, it just keeps If I just would've taken the time to sit there with her and listen, I don't think she would've - I guarantee that the only thing that Jen and your Mom ever wanted is for you to accept Christ, and you did that, you did that, and they'd be so proud of you and Steven, and don't ever forget that. (telephone ringing) - I'm sorry Dad. It's Shawn, do you mind? - Oh, no no, go ahead. (telephone ringing) - Shawn, what's up? - Hey Dave, I uh. - What's the matter Shawn? - Ah man. - What's going on? - I don't know how to tell you. We didn't get the addition. - What? - We didn't get it. They changed their mind. - Shawn, I was heading over there. I was going over there today. - You should've just I warned you they might cancel. - We talked about this already. - I, I know. Dave, I don't know how - Well, we still have - But what if you can't? - I've done everything I can. It's in God's hands now. - Well, if there's anything - I will. - Hey, what time's church start on Sunday? - 10 o'clock, you thinking about going? - I thought about it. I don't know what I'm doing yet though. - I think you should. - Well, I don't know yet. I might have something else going on. - Well, hopefully I'll see you there. - Well, maybe, we'll see. Well hey, you know, try and I'll talk to you later. - Okay. - Bye. - [Steven] Hey Dad. - [Dave] Steven. - Hey, good to see you. Um, while you're here, there's - [Dave] Okay. - Yeah, I don't know who it's from, but it just showed up this morning, so. - [Dave] All right, I'll grab it. - Okay. (light orchestral music) - [Kevin] Dear David, my wife and I can't believe the kind of change the Your new found joy in the Lord is a blessing to us on Sunday's, and we're thrilled to have you back. My sister called me and told I just wanted to express my thanks for the generosity you've Hopefully, sometime soon, the Lord will provide us Thanks again, and may the Lord bless - Steven, come in here for a minute. - Yeah, Dad, what's up? (light orchestral music) - It was right in his mailbox, huh? - Yeah, I didn't expect it. I don't get notes like that. - If people you don't even you're doing good. - Do you think Shawn - I really don't know son. - He just didn't seem into it earlier. - We'll just have to wait - I'll see ya later Dad. - Okay son, I'll talk to you later. - See ya. - Bye now. (congregation chattering) (light guitar music) - Hi. - Oh, hey. - So, you did it. - Uh, it wasn't me. Um, are um, are you, what are you doing this afternoon? - Nothing, why? - Um, well, okay um, I was gonna go uh, do you wanna go to lunch? - Sure. - You do, yeah, okay. (chuckles) Good, um, let me uh and, and we'll go. - Okay. - [Steven] Okay, good. - Hey, I'm glad you came today. - It's been awhile since - Yeah, it wasn't easy - Hmm, you know, there's Ah, I'll be back next week - Yeah, sounds great. - [Shawn] Hey, I'll see - All right. - Hey Mom, yeah, I'm okay. Is Dad there? Can I talk to him, thanks. - Hey hon, sorry I haven't I know I wasn't the I missed out on so much, and Steven, he's doing just fine. We raised an awesome son. I wish you were here to watch him grow. I love you. I'll always have you here and here. (light orchestral music) (light piano music) The spirit of the Lord brings freedom Shattering emptiness and There's a power in his Bringing life where there was only death The spirit is here The spirit is now He will never be held down The spirit is here bringing His power Filling my lungs, I wanna shout The one who lives in me is greater The God who set me free is greater Than anything that's of this world He has overcome He has overcome The one who lives in me is greater The God who set me free is greater Than anything that's of this world He has overcome He has overcome Oh oh oh, oh oh oh The world is broken, evil may rise Our God will prevail Sin and darkness seek to destroy Our God will prevail The world is broken, evil may rise Our God will prevail Sin and darkness seek to destroy Our God will prevail Our God will prevail Our God will prevail Our God will prevail Our God will prevail Our God will prevail Our God will prevail Our God will prevail Our God will prevail