- [Narrator] This Amazon is unlike the ones they've building the industry It's one-eighth the size. It needs fewer employees, yet, it allows them to deliver even faster. An order here can go from in just 11 minutes. Because of Amazon, customers have come to And Walmart and Target by building systems to beat Amazon's two-day delivery promise. So Amazon is trying to by investing in what made them successful in the first place. Speed. - Over Prime Big Deals Day, our fastest delivery was 54 minutes. We don't know yet what the limit is. - [Narrator] Here's how is overhauling its massive to shave more days, hours, and even minutes off delivery times. (bright music) - We're delivering between to our customers. - [Narrator] This facility is one of 49 same-day delivery Unlike Amazon's larger warehouses, these smaller sites prepare a service that's available in more than 90 metropolitan areas. At traditional Amazon warehouses, an order might first be picked before being moved to another to be sorted and then to a delivery station before finally arriving on a doorstep. Compare that to the same-day centers, which put picking, packing, The facility here in Renton up to an hour away. But that's enough to serve households around parts of Seattle and Tacoma. Centers like this deliver the local customers might - Apple products, like and then household cleaners. That's what we're driving here - If you have a right analytics, you can keep the right items And those right items will be different at different regions. - [Narrator] The inventory along with AI-driven tech, gets packages to doorsteps faster. - We have things that help too similar of an item to avoid a mis-shipment - [Narrator] In a process called Stowing, workers store small items in on the robotics floor. Larger items, which the live on these shelves. There are diapers, dog That meticulous organization to customers in record time. - I was in my building on a Friday afternoon and and outta my building, and got home within a couple hours and that package nearly beat me. - [Narrator] Say you One of the facility's hundreds of robots is assigned to pick up The picker pulls the item on this wall to be packed. A packer will grab the item, Your order travels on this conveyor belt just a few hundred feet - When that sticker is at that moment, we determine how long that route could be, and that's dynamically - [Narrator] The yellow which cart selection and cart By the time your order is waiting for a driver to pick it up, only four minutes and since a worker pulled it from the shelf. On average, the company says it takes to travel through this whole facility. Once the packages are Amazon's flex drivers are They make deliveries allowing the company to The timing is roughly the same, no matter what you order - Let's say I ordered three items. We have the ability with our logic, to combine those items from the floor and bring all three of them together. - [Narrator] Amazon says an will arrive by 10:00 PM. Otherwise, it will arrive This same-day facility to make that possible. Amazon plans to double the in the next few years. - The biggest difference is is reduce the distance between as much as we can. - [Narrator] Before, if a shopper in Florida they might have been shipped from Seattle. - Now we're at a big enough scale that we've realized it's to break the US up into Today, more than 76% of customer demand is fulfilled from within their region. - [Narrator] Competitors are also speeding up delivery, by fulfilling orders closer to customers. But the key difference? Amazon doesn't have thousands of stores. - These same-day sites are because it's a lot of the items that someone would go to Walmart for to pick up for their house. - [Narrator] Customers' have also risen. - You have customers two-day delivery all of a sudden saying, &quot;Well, can I get this item or that item without having to go to the store?&quot; And they've had to really meet But the funny thing is, is customers are where they're - We see that the faster the more customers engage with our store and the more they come back. - [Narrator] And as more and with Amazon and e-commerce, the company is doubling down on speed. - The response has been, &quot;What we already do good, And that's sort of is by playing offense. - [Narrator] Since 2018, Amazon has cut its average - Whenever you reduce your delivery time, your cost increases exponentially. - With the same-day centers, you're paying gig workers to do their job and they can only put so that they're driving around. - [Narrator] To offset some of the cost in speeding up delivery, which cost $139 a year. It also has another advantage, the sheer breadth of its business. - Amazon has that power to incur some losses in the short-run, because they have that kind of cash, they have that kind of revenue - [Narrator] Amazon says fast delivery doesn't necessarily mean higher expenses. - Our fastest deliveries are because we've really shortened - [Narrator] The company argues also reduces the environmental like increased packaging and emissions. - Our same-day facilities to dense metro areas. We stock them with very high demand items. That means we have a lot of and they travel much shorter distances. - [Narrator] Labor also worry about employee safety as the company ramps up its speed. - Amazon has a huge history at their facilities, and now that they're what does that mean for employees? - Employees go through the packing, and packaging an item and getting it ready to be as they do in a regular site. It's just that the distance - [Narrator] The company says that &quot;From 2019 to 2022, it saw a 23% reduction in and that it has invested over $1 billion in safety initiatives since 2019.&quot; Despite those challenges, - Fast, faster, fastest! - [Narrator] It's investing electrifying its delivery fleet, and plans to create more with its drone delivery program. And that's forced other But Target is taking a different approach. - Our stores can act - [Narrator] In our next episode, we'll go behind the scenes at Target's first Sortation Center. Can the smallest competitor of the bunch even compete with Amazon (bright music)