Hey guys! Welcome back to Lavendaire. This video is on the five steps to undo your It's actually part 2 of the self worth and self esteem video that I recently uploaded. So if you haven't watched that, go ahead and Just keep in mind that I recorded it at the same time. It was supposed to be part of the same video, I was like, &quot;Oh my god, no one's going to watch this.&quot; So I decided to break it down so that This one's going to stand on its own, Alright, hope you enjoy this one! Now, let's talk about insecurities and how And this is a five-step process. I know when I put it in five steps, it seems easy It's an ongoing five steps, but it hopefully will be helpful. The first step is to become aware of your insecurities, and you want to work through them one at a time. You can't just knock out all your insecurities It really is one at a time. In a journal, write down what the insecurity is, and then ask yourself: &quot;Where do I think this Where is the life experience, the deeply rooted childhood traumas that this insecurity comes from? What do I believe is hurting me? Look at your insecurities - and this is not always easy. You've got to face your insecurities. Cry if you have to. FEEL it. Don't just avoid it. Most people just push down their insecurities They don't want to feel that sadness, all of that. So be brave enough to feel it, to face it, That's Step 1. Step 2: Change your perspective. Ask yourself: &quot;Am I willing to see this differently?&quot; The book, A Return to Love, says, Sometimes all you have to do is change the Change the way that you look at your insecurities. Ask yourself: Am I willing to see this insecurity Am I willing to see myself and treat myself with love? You can't just sit and think about it. I want you to really journal it out and put it on paper. What would it look like if you treated yourself How would you deal with this insecurity with love? A part of that might be going back to that experience where that insecurity came from, and seeing that experience through the eyes of love, Say you're insecure about your thighs because in school, all the kids commented on your tree trunk thighs. And that is a common insecurity that women have. Instead of seeing yourself as just the victim being bullied and then feeling like you're not pretty enough, you're not good enough, you look at that situation Then you would see that what you would do to that child version of you is give yourself a big hug and tell yourself she's beautiful and it's okay, and it doesn't matter what other people say about her. They don't know what they're saying. They're kids. They will forget that they said that the next day. In ten years, it won't matter. Basically, you have to look at this insecurity Try to shift it. Try to see it from a new perspective, and The third step is to reprogram your mind with thoughts that are made out of love, that support you, that will not hold you down or put you down any longer, For each insecure and negative thought that you have - hopefully you're writing them out line-by-line, I want you to cross out the insecurity and rewrite it a new belief that's written out of love. For example, you might write: &quot;I'm insecure about my thighs and I tend to hide them because I'm afraid to show them to the world.&quot; You would cross that out and instead you &quot;I love my body because my body is strong and doing all of these amazing things with my body. I do not need the beauty standards made up by mainstream media to dictate how I feel about my own body.&quot; The process is: After you've become aware of your insecurities or your negative thoughts, you refute those thoughts and instead write After doing this exercise with a bunch of insecurities, you will have a list of positive affirmations, And the way to ingrain those into your mind Write these in your phone, repeat them to Repetition is how you brainwash yourself to And this is brainwash for good, for positivity. You want to reprogram your mind to stop thinking and instead replace those thoughts The fourth step to undo your insecurities is to stop comparing yourself to other people. You have to change your mindset and see that We are here on this earth to work You're not in competition with all the girls It's not a race. You're not trying to be better than other people. There is no way that you can be better than other people Each person has their own life experience, And there's no way you can compare one person They might be good at different things It's not an equal comparison. It's not a fair comparison, so just stop comparing Know that all you need to compare yourself to is the past you, the you from last year, five years ago. As long as you are improving, It's progress, not perfection. Progress, not competition. One thing that I had to learn too, in my life is: One person's success does not diminish Just because someone else is beautiful and It just shows that you can do that too. And what we should do instead is lift each other up, One person's light does not diminish your own light. If anything, it can help you find the light you have within, Lastly, Step #5 is to stay aware and just catch yourself having an insecure or negative thought, comparing yourself to other people, You want to program your mind to only think thoughts that help you and support you in your life. You gotta be policing your mind and your You are in control of your mind. And you don't want to let your mind control you because most people let their mind and But know that you can take the power back. So Step #5 is just to stay consciously aware of your mind and actively practice those positive affirmations, programming your mind for positive thinking, seeing the world through the perspective of love. And if you keep doing these things, it's a continuous and it will help you so much with undoing Stay tuned for more videos in this Make sure you catch the previous video if Love you guys so much. Bye!