- Hey guys, it is apple season It's time for a real delicious So I wanted to share with you one of my easiest pastry recipes because we're gonna be using so that's gonna save you a ton of time. It's also a really great recipe that you can make all in advance and then when your guest come over you just pop them in the oven and they will think you are Let me show you how quick So the first thing we're gonna do is create our cinnamon sugar. So in a small bowl, you're going to take two tablespoons of white sugar and combine that with a You can just whisk that up And in a larger bowl you're gonna add one cup of diced apple. Now I like to use the only because I always have them on hand, and I do actually keep the skin on because there's a ton and what that's gonna do when it bakes is it's going to actually kind of like jellied turnover consistency and then it'll also save you step, you don't have to peel the apples. Just make sure you wash them well first. Then you're gonna add that cinnamon sugar to the top of the apples and or you could use currants. Or if you're a raisin the raisins out, but I So I'm hoping maybe maybe They're really good, come on people. And that's all you have to do. You're gonna toss that your filling aside and prepping the pastry. So on a lightly floured surface, you're gonna take out Now, I will leave you a the brand that I like to already scored in the which makes this really easy. And then, where it's scored, you're gonna just slice your knife along the scoring to separate these panels. And then you're gonna cut each That's all you have to do. And you're gonna do it with So it works out perfectly, in one box and then you to that same dimension. Then you're gonna take one egg and then with your pastry brush, you're gonna go in and just paint all along the perimeter And this is gonna really help us when we go to seal in our apples. So then you're gonna go and you're gonna put about a tablespoon to a tablespoon and a in the center of each rectangle. And then you're gonna put the second half of the pastry on top and with the tines of a fork in some flour and just go ahead and press it gently along each side. And see how pretty that looks? That's also gonna help seal it as well. And then you're going to brush the top with more of the egg wash. And then here comes the You're gonna take a sharp knife, and make sure that it's not serrated, because that'll start to and you want a really nice, clean cut. And you're just gonna little lines over the apple mound. And that is going to allow when that pastry starts And then with a spatula that has also been dipped in flour, you and transfer it to a This is the hardest part. I know, it's really time consuming, all of this pastry business. But that's okay, because you And then what you're gonna your sheet in foil and and then all you have to do is preheat your oven to And then you can pop it's all cold and frozen, no problem, just throw it in there. And you're gonna bake from anywhere from 30 to 35 minutes. So I give you that range when they're frozen, you'll want to go probably the full 35 minutes. If you've just put it in you probably will only Now, even if you're not it is a good thing to do to in your freezer for 10 minutes or the refrigerator for I Just because when you're working with the puff pastry, it starts If you have pastry that's not really cold and you put it in the hot oven, it's not gonna retain its shape. And in fact, those apples and the juices can kind of seep out even more. So it is a good thing to make sure that these little pastries before you put them in a hot oven. Then, when those pastries you can set them aside and And then in a small a tablespoon of powdered sugar and mix together about a teaspoon, a teaspoon and a half, you start with a teaspoon of heavy cream. You just want a nice sort And then at this stage you can leave those pastries just sitting and then take your and with a fork just scoop some up and give it a nice drizzle, just in a sort of And you'll see you'll have And then you can transfer or cake stand and bring them to the table and watch everybody ooh and ah. And when your guests cut into these, they are the most delicious things. You've got that light, flaky pastry mixed with those warm cinnamon apples and of course the gooey glaze on top. What could be better, right? So if you need to impress in-laws, neighbors, the book you need to try these little They will surely do the trick. All right you guys, I Let me know how it turns that you subscribe for more I will see you back here Until then. Loving you is easy, you're amazing Please take a bite of my apple pie Oh, love loving, love loving you It's a piece of cake Oh yes, yes, it's true