Aaron: Yeah, yeah, I'm ready. So, is this Stan: We're live. -It looks like it's facing the back of my -No. We can see you. -It's good up there? Alright. -Good. You're live Aaron. -Alright. Alright, hey, everybody. So, I can -Yeah [Laughter]. Hey, guys. We're live streaming doing a Zorn palette demo today and answering you can go to Proko.com/547. There's that question. -You got pre much anything. -Pretty much anything - -Pretty much anything. -But primarily painting questions. -Painting related. -Cuz you know, he's doing a Zorn palette painting -Yes. -And go ahead and talk and I'll show them -Okay. So, today what I'm gonna do is a portrait use just cad red, yellow ochre, and ivory -Point to those again, sorry. -Cad red, yellow ochre and ivory black and can use almost any you know, brand yellow Some yellow ochres are darker than others. and the one - the color that changes a lot Cad red medium Rembrandt and it's good. I also like Windsor Newton Cad red. Just straight one's a little bit lighter than the Windsor is is basically a limited primary palette. your blue, right? It's a very muted blue, muted also and then the red. The red is the So, this is you know, it's called Anders Zorn's it including Sargent and many. Zorn just kinda and he also painted figures and that was something so maybe we can see some of the examples of So what Zorn did a lot he restricted the palette schemes. So, he wouldn't put everything in red with a lot of green. He would really, So, this one's kinda the - I call this one yellow and red and this picture, this image not that red but - -You're seeing it on the TV which is probably -Okay. -Well, but it's probably still too saturated. -It might look good. So, it just depends but his drawings but - -Which one do you want me to show? -Okay. Can you show on the top - there's a right there. yeah that one. so, this is a you know, just a li - it's mostly black, you yellow ochre and just that little red on his saying &quot;hey look at me&quot; but - and there's, it's very limited, now it's a sculpture of but anyway okay, let's go to another one - another good, the one in the fur. Yeah, that was good. again just a lot of yellow ochre, black and is super thin. There's hardly any paint on you know, brushmanship, edges, color, and, And maybe go to the one where it's - -I keep messing up. -I think some are overlapping other ones. -I don't think so. -Okay, there's - yeah the prostitute one. -Which one? This one? -Yeah that one's - that's a 19th century prostitute. but it's, you know, she's outdoors, it's night, know, kinda backlit. so again, this - well, than it actually is. but - -Oh yeah, way more. yeah. But again, just really good edges, values, pretty much. he sculpted, he did water - He And he did etchings, you know, that are really and then there's a wedding one right next dress. This is a watercolor one but there's and white with a little bit of yellow ochre. This one's one of my favorite paintings to it took to make the composition work, right? kinda looking at it. It's on the - in front chair. You see that? How the leg is just gone. from her face. You know, if you kinda draw There's a lot of contrast between the leg it, you know, got rid of it completely because great example of, you know, no color at all are correct, right? so cool light, warm shadows. you can see the the waist area of her it's really warm kinda strong design and so, it didn't need a lot Let's do the one where he's got the palette -Oh. Yeah yeah. -Okay, this is the one where - you know, a colors he used?&quot; Well, you don't know exactly know, idea right there, you know, black, cad And the other thing is, you know, do studies of these paintings and you can glean a lot the palette actually is. but again, this one not too much red at all except for on his implying what's going on. there's not - everything's and you just understand cuz it's just really I guess that's it. -[Crosstalk] Painting? -Yeah. So - oh, wait, let me - can you go wanna show you guys a Sargent painting where painting and see Zorn pallet, you know, yellow got a little bit more, you know, blue, you black, you know, it could be just black and well within the pallet, you know, it's just and great design. and the thing with - I'll talk about this there's hardly any - there's hardly any value lights. It's almost one big value, you know, hardly any changes in value. But it's just it's just so gorgeous to look at, you know, But - okay, so let's get started. So, the is - yes, that's my reference right there -? -No. -Okay, yes. I have a demonstration through -Yeah, why don't you set up and I'll talk -Okay, yeah, do that. -So yeah, so Aaron did a masterpiece demo him for three days at his studio and we have only it's 20% off. you guys wanna go there code &quot;Westerberg20&quot; and it's on screen there -It has everything that I do. I shoot the -That's right. -Prime my panel, I - I don't know what else [Laughter] -I do a little color comp prior to the painting. -Oh yeah, that's right. Yeah, you did two -Yeah, I do color comp, I shoot the model -With a camera. -With a camera. Jesus Christ. -Alright, I'm gonna go to your palette. -Okay. So, I'm just generally blocking in, she's looking down a little bit - a lot and she's gonna be and then I'm gonna zoom right It looks - it's just black. I just actually bit of yellow ochre in it I think but it is so I can still remove the paint if I need need to do that anywhere on here yet but - -Somebody said &quot;Westerberg is hot&quot;. [Laughter] -I don't know what to say that. -&quot;Love his beard&quot;. -[Chuckles] Okay. -&quot;Everything about him is lovable&quot;. -Okay. -&quot;Yeah he is hot&quot;. These are real - these -Okay. Should I - -They wanna see you. -He is not hot, he looks cool. People are what you look like. -Alright. -Here you go guys. Here's another shot of -I'm single. -Put on the Bumble hat. There you go. -Alright. -This is not sponsored. free ad from Bumble. -He's all blushing now. Look at you guys. -You guys got me all flustered. Okay, okay. of the head is three quarter, you know, I'm face and what I'm doing right now is just shapes and I'm kinda looking up at her a little of her nose. You know, her bottom of her nose is kinda far eye, so, I'm gonna start there cuz it's and, you know, I'm just drawing with - this red. it's kind of a purple color. can you so, this color right here is just black with it. I don't know if that's clear. it's kinda at the beginning here. -Let me know when you want me to start asking -You can ask me questions. -Yeah? Okay. -I think so. -I guess this part is just you doing the lay -Yes. -Yeah. So, it's like a drawing. -Any questions fine though. -Okay. Oh boy this is a - Okay, I'll start -Okay. -someone asked the three parter. [Laughter] -I'll come back to that one. -Okay. -We'll start with an easy one. -Okay good. &quot;Hey what limited palette would [Laughter] -Well - what's that guy's name? -Zorn - Oh the person? Daniel - -Just his first name, Daniel. Well Daniel, if you're painting a indoor portrait, I would know, it really depends on what you're trying you need more color, you know, and I actually the blog I have the addition - I added three colors are Cad yellow, ultramarine blue, and palette. You know, you can paint with that newest blog posts I have on there but you the - if it's, you know, sunny outside, you gonna add a lot more color onto whatever it You know, everything reflects back down from -Now, why did you add those three? -Good question, Stan. Good question. so, when cool palette. So you have yellow ochre then and then you have ultramarine blue and black. which is, you know, a cool red. and it just in terms of color. You know, you just have of it, the additions to the palette on the supercharged, the Zorn palette. So, I didn't start this way. I started with basically how I learned how to paint was the started with a bunch of color then I step know what I was doing, you know, it's just know how to use really and just to step back now too is use this little Q tips to help and just erase little areas really easily You get a lot of kinds of Q-tips. These ones and you can - maybe these ones are normal for removing paint. So did that guy say anything -No it's just what's a good limited palette. pick out or black and white. -Yeah, you could do beautiful things with need - -Yeah, you don't even need the white. -Right, correct. -[Inaudible] -Yeah and I've done hundreds of those paintings a story - before I knew how to do, you know, I couldn't, you know, use color. I did a lot you know, because you can sell a painting monochromatic paintings early on in my career great. They're great for learning how to draw with with the medium and just getting better at paintings and, you know, basically those under paintings anyway, you know. I try to keep my paintings pretty thin, you variety as possible so, you know, texture warm versus cool, you know, all that kind better. nature never repeats, so you shouldn't a Fibonacci sequence repeats, things like two snowflakes that are the same, you know, or two leaves or two rocks, you know, even can asked me another question. -Yes. &quot;Does the Zorn palette work for painting Southeast Asian who are more yellow leaning to better suit painting those ethnicities?&quot; -Yeah, it can be, you know, it's - you know, just black with white is your blue, your maximum there not gonna be anything much, you know, in the face. only when you get outdoors or setups do things get more complex color wise. So, it's good for you know, all different it's good. I highly recommend it. -Yeah, Zorn Palette is just really good for -Yeah. -It just make really good browns. -Exactly. -Any value and then you can shift towards bit and towards blue a little bit. -Exactly. -But not much, but you don't need, I mean, Not bright like lemon yellow. Ochre is good -Right. You're not painting any superheroes -Yeah. -There's no thing or anything like that. So, for painting people indoors, you know, and you can concentrate on other things like drawing more complex color and that's what I do anyway off real limited in terms of color and then try to go in right off the bat with a ton but you see, I'm just kinda filling in the the shapes before I can do too much to them, see if they're in the right spot or not, I move 'em. Everything is ambiguous and it's to be real thin and real graphic right now. question? -Sure. &quot;Do you work from life as well as working photo session?&quot; -Yeah, that's a good question. Yeah, in the that because what I do is I do a small color I can do it faster and I'm just worried about not so much the detail of the drawing but, lot of painting and drawing from life, so everything in terms of light but, you know, you know, and I mean, there's a lot of lies too dark, the edges too hard - a lot of different So, you wanna be aware of that. so, when you looking at a photo that you shot yourself, and, you know, you can kinda tell when someone like all the shadows are kind of the same tell. But yeah, I like to do both. I like and then, a lot of times, you know, I'll shoot you know, it's just too complex of pose or got a little smirk, so I wanna make sure I too much to have them model pose for, you to - and her mouth is slightly open too, so be aware of that. That's the main thing. I always like to get a good idea of what the before I go in to do a big - a large study, demo. [Inaudible] the job. That's 20% off -Proko.com/Westerberg. -That's it. -Use coupon code &quot;Westerberg20&quot;. -That's right. -2-0. -2-0, 20 percent. That's good. It's only $100, -let me see what is that now? -Well, without the 20% off, it's $100, right? -Had to log in. I don't know [Laughter] I'm -I'm pretty sure - -I think it's about 100 bucks. -Yeah. -You get 20% off. -Yeah 20% off of $100. So you save $20. Good of the video, there's a long version and a -Yeah but they buy both now. -Yeah they can - but yeah, in the package the demo or 8 hour. -Yeah, we have - so it's a real time version but we just like took out pauses and stuff still kinda like, you know, his hand is moving that, you know, where things were a little paintings sometimes - there's areas where -It's like watching Grasco. -Yeah, so we kept all the most important information you can still learn everything that you would -Yeah you can kinda go back and look in detail in. So, you know, why thing real quick and And I talk about everything, you know, all to successfully being ahead. The demo is like It's more than the head. Oh, there's two -BTS Army has a question. oh wait, no, I already was about the one with the skin tones. sorry. work from &quot; - wait, I already asked that one -Yeah. -What's up Stan? -I'm behind. Okay. Here's a new one. -Okay. -Joe - &quot;I would like to ask, how do you achieve color palette?&quot; -Well, that's a good question. yeah, it's same thing I was alluding to with those paintings. you know, they really restrict a lot of the enhance whatever color it might be. Like you little red ribbon on his lapel, alright? So, him and then with the Sargent, you know, she but you know, they use color to move your it in other areas so that the areas that do that you do want to - the painter wants you You know, so they restrict the colors for than the guy asked but, you know, cuz there's painting, you know? some of it is, you know, you know, using the same brush to mix every in general, you guys probably heard this before one brush for your light areas and one brush not going back and forth in between those you know, you wanna keep them fairly you know, when you have a dark color mixed use a lighter color, the dark paint is still way out there. same with the light paint. so if you use a lot of white and then go in washed out just because of the residual paint than one brush and, you know, keep your darks Maybe this is a good time to go over that about. Yeah. -What secret? You talking about the Zorn values? -The checkerboard thing. No. -Oh the checkerboard, okay. -The checkerboard thing. yeah, because - -Don't blow it up. -You know, yeah. Don't blow up the double -Yeah. -Okay, so I teach regular class - well, I thing - I say two things in my classes, you that I use over and over again. one is, simpler that in a minute but the other thing is, things around them. nothing looks like, you know, you know? for lack of a better description. so, you see two squares on here, A and B, a light checkerboard color, just black and by light squares and B is surrounded by dark A and Square B are actually exactly the same because what's surrounding them, okay? So, alright, can you show the proof? -Yeah. -So, even the proof, it kind of looks different and value. No difference at all and even when the bars almost look like they have a gradation believe me, the same color and value but it's scale, you know? If you wanna make a building cars in front of it, you wanna make, you know, you know, put big things in the front and value, you know, you wanna things - make things contrast between your darks and lights and, in isolation. So, if you wanna make like for example I reference everything else is gonna have to be more muted, beginning, hopefully, anyway, you're kinda as your star, you know, what's the main focal and then everything else should be, you know, everything else is just supporting actors. you can't have a sporting actors taking over Cuz if they do then, you know, why you paying know, you gotta - -Do you have a thing for Brad Pitt? -So? -No, it's a question. -Oh okay. Well I mean, he's cute. -Me too. -Okay, you know. yeah, I just saw - What's -Yeah, Bastard. -Yeah, just saw that one. Anyway, but - Oh there's another movie where he's like a. -A Tank one? -Yeah, he's a captain of a Tank team in - I called Tank or something like that. It's a is? -Fury? -Fury. Yeah, that's a great movie. Have you -No, I just looked it up. -It's great. Yeah, I didn't even know about movie. -Oh, he has the haircut that I wish I had -Oh, really? -Yeah. -What's the haircut? -It's just like the sides are completely - like -It's a World War II - It's a war movie and American. Yeah, I forget. I think they're It's just a good movie though. It's got a -Yeah, US Tank crew fighting in Nazi Germany. -Yeah. -During World War two. -Okay, yeah. I got it right. yeah, good movie. He's cool. Mission Impossible. -Nice. -But yeah so, long story short, you know, make something sing then restrict its opposite, but it's with everything. So, you'll see like is Nicolai Fechin, right? -Oh yeah. -So, a lot of times he'll paint like little holding Kachina doll or something like that, real texture, you know, a lot of impostor that does it makes it - it makes the skin and soft comparatively, right? Cuz he's got -Trying to find one. -Nicolai Fechin. they have a few of his paintings actually - it just depends on which ones they you know, his - he was - one of his teachers -Does this one show it well? -No. -Not really, huh? but the texture is almost -Yeah, yeah. if you do like - type in like - like with the purple - the ones at the San down. -What is -? -type in like Fechin and Native American or does it. -What's the child wearing? Cuz I mean, there's -There's a bunch of them but one there - is just holding a Kachina doll, purple dress. -I found a purple dress and she's got a dog, -Well that's one. I mean, he's done a lot -I don't know why it's not coming up. Oh, -Oh yeah. Yeah. That's the one. -So good. Oh, dang it. There. -Yeah. so good. -So, the face looks - you're saying the face -Yeah the skin and the face - this one it's of a portrait, it's a little bit more of a, I don't think this one's bigger than 18 by the skin look extra soft versus the background are, you know? you know, nothing is outlined a pretty big Kachina doll and it doesn't look yeah, his last name is spelled F-E-C-H-I-N -I think my audience is - I talk about him -And I know that's how you pronounce his name was alive, she was at the Fechin House which is E-N-Y. You're Russian. -I'm Ukrainian. -Oh you're Ukrainian? but yeah, Fayshin. Yeah, a while too. Did you know that? -No. -Yeah. There's a bunch of paintings that he that stuff there. -How about this one? -Yeah, that's a good one. -Soft skin, textured background. -Yeah, he was really good at, you know, doing from the academic tradition and painted portraits, they were focused on like historical allegorical on but broke away from that and, you know, Did a lot of portrait. He did Hollywood movie especially when we lived in Taos. He got a divorce and then moved to Santa Monica. might know may have taken class with him. -Jason asks, &quot;Why do you think the Zorn palette name?&quot; -I don't know. I think it's just cuz - it's he was a really good painter. And so, it's kinda like old bastard things. It's kinda know exactly, I couldn't tell you. Just a I'm giving her a little bit more of a ponytail a little bit. just because I think it'll look I don't know, you know, I didn't even know wasn't until actually a guy named Ryan Wormser &quot;whoa that's cool&quot;. And I started using it sense to be more well rounded. I wanted to came from. You know, like all the raw amber, what colors made those colors? You know, those make those? And - Oh.. -What happened? -I don't know. Something moved on my - on so, yeah, I don't know why it's gotten popular -Estoni - I don't know. Someone asked, &quot;I how best to employ color for larger scenes. work best or are you largely reliant on color -When I do work larger, I for sure do a smaller right? because I don't wanna waste time or that painting may include, you know, like it doesn't matter, you know, I'm still gonna up larger but you know, you know, there's could be answered cuz there's a few different study color, you know, there's a lot of good go paint outside. that's one of the best. another one is still lives, you know. painting right? Cuz there's so much drawing involved sit there and paint that thing all day, right? and I got a lot better at color by painting or anything like that. So, you know, if you wanna get better at color study other painters that you like. You know, You know, that's one of the greatest ways did and you know, it's all the same thing. there's new colors but you know, new synthetic like that but in general, you know, color's color were made a lot by, you know, the impressionists around with color and, you know, even Sargent don't know. Is there another question or do you think Maybe I'll show that later. You know, the -Oh yeah. You could. -Well I'll talk about it later. It's not really -Yeah, maybe while you're painting is probably after Quinacridone? -Yeah, she - -Her name's Quinn Rose. -Oh really? -Yeah. -Oh that's cool. that's - yeah, that's funny. -But Quinn with two Ns, like the actual name -Like Harley Quinn? -Yeah. -Yeah, no, I didn't know that. That's cool. like that name. -Quinacridone violet is one of my favorite of alizarin crimson, it's Quinacridone violet. yeah, those colors are new and exciting. -Is it on your palette right now? -Yeah it's right here. I mean - -Oh, it's kinda dark on there. -You can't see too much of it. -Yeah. -I mean, right next to it is the transparent oxide red and the two of those. you know, a lot of colors really gotta open them up, you know, add white magnitude and beauty and all that stuff. So, is a necessity sometimes. And so, I'm just to be real general, still and what I'm gonna darks in there, there's no really - everything light value right here but - -Which one? sorry I was - -The color that I'm using to draw, this color. right now and I'm gonna go over, you know, here is showing the mixes, alright? so this lot of different kinds of black, alright? of black. you know, paint manufacturers wanna just sell but this is ivory black which is a little Mars black. Mars black is a little bit warmer never just use black for my darks, I always a lot of reasons for that. The main - the on its own. I wanna put some other colors and I wanna shift it, you know, temperature bit more warm. the other reason is, you know, black, ivory molecularly as other colors and so, it helps another color, the ivory black. so, I do that, of red and you can see that pretty good. so, get some browns. so, I'm gonna mix up like - you can't see that too well but that's burnt and then warm it up a little bit, add a little raw Sienna and depending on how much yellow -Yeah. These aren't coming across - does it this one. -Yeah, hold on. I'm trying to zoom in on your -So, you can make, you know, the full gamut -How does it look like? -Just look, you know, like - see how much But, you know, I'll just tell them. -Yeah. That looks almost black on the screen. -Yeah, and cool. But this is - this color -Well, can you maybe tilt the palette a little down. -I don't know. -Yeah, it just gets more blurry. -Now I got it. -That's so weird. -Yeah, now, well, maybe if I put - if I put -No, don't do anything. -I don't know why it - but, you know, it's they're different temperatures. So anyway, color, with this palette. You know, you can favorite mixes that I use with this palette. green, right? So, the green to get to look put it next to something that it's the opposite You can barely see that but it's a muted green. to put names in front of colors besides the an olivey green kind of, you know? but it's like names of colors, so it doesn't help with everyone thinks that name means, it's not so I usually like saying, you know, it's a green or whatever but anyway, you can kinda a couple of little things. Okay, so sometimes - is liquin, you know, when I want to - can okay. -It's good, looks good. -See? [Chuckles] Anyway, it's liquin. -[Laughter] I'll go to your face camera. You it's not any better. Whatever. -It's very poisonous. -Don't drink it. -Don't drink it. Don't smell it. Use open window, but I want to put some washes down because doing demo and I want to get the value little dark wash before I do that. And that's And, you know, painting is it's your creation want. you know, I'm gonna make this scarf I think It's just more interesting to me, art school, I - well, I studied with Jeff school ever. I wanted to but long story. but I remember back in the day, there was what you see versus what you know versus what end of the day you kinda, you know, I paint determines how my paintings look, you know? so, sometimes I'll remove things. like here's anything, Stan but one of the things that - do you know that answer, Stan? in a female -Either hands or feet. I don't know. Feet? -Right, feet. But no, that's not what I'm -Smiles? -No. Collarbones. -Collarbones? -Collarbones. -Okay. -Go look at one of those - any of its formal right? he just has a plane change, he goes -Oh, dark - -But there's no cast shadows for - -It actually looks a little weird. I know -If you - but if you - look at Madam X. Look thought about it until I had that problem had a big shadow from her collarbone and just you know, it's just got this dark surrounded a problem I do, you know, what would Sargent draw collarbones, you know? rarely does he he just puts a plane change from front of You know, I never realized it until I had -There it is. -Yeah, where's the collarbone? You know, it's -A tiny bit at the - the inner - -Right. A little bit right there at the clavicle where her deltoid is but I mean, come on, bone there and it's almost in all of his paintings. -This soft spot right here is a little awkward -Yeah and even the other side. -Yeah. -It's awkward. -It looks like a big bump. -It looks like there needs to be something -Yeah. -this one is one of the ones where it can you know, just kinda flat like a piece of paintings ever. and oh, I accidentally just -Oh oh, they didn't see it cuz I was - your -Okay good. Oh yeah, I didn't do anything -Where did you put it? -Nowhere, it didn't happen. -Wait, let's see if we could zoom in. -No, no. -Is it somewhere -? -I put it here but - -Oh okay. -You know, it's like it was there and gone -[Inaudible]. -It didn't happen. Glare? -No. It's actually not too bad. -On this? it's just cuz I think she's like -Right here but it's actually not that different mind. -And things are gonna - I don't want it to Anyway, yeah. So, Sargent rarely drew clavicles up, you'll see. It's surprising but it's true. So again, I'm just going in with these dark you know, not exactly the right color but but I'm just kinda going for the big pattern squint. The big 101. Yeah. I don't wanna say it but, you know, I think -I'm sure there's some people that don't. -Okay well, I'll just give you the thing real the big pattern of light and dark is in whatever actually the basic shapes that whatever the dad from a football field away, you know, you know, and the same with everything, especially you don't need as many - you don't need any will tell you whatever or whoever it is your so, you squint down, get the essentials and and, you know, procedurally with this painting I always wanna put my extremes in first because so, the extremes can be value, they can be of different things, but here - oh okay, and always do the easiest things first, okay? because that easy thing is gonna allow me that make sense? -Mm-hmm. -So, the easy thing here is the dark areas. makes it easy to see what color the light -Someone asked, &quot;Would love to hear you talk texture and those more abstract brush work. -How I approach background texture and clothing? -Yeah. I think that's a good sign of showing -My color stuff? -Yeah, like the way you handle backgrounds. -Oh, my color studies? -Yeah. -Okay. I mean, these are different. Those -Yeah. But it's still one way you do it, right? -Well, I don't have the pallet camera on or -Oh, yeah. Sorry. -Well I mean this is - -There. -Yeah, this is, you know, I don't know. This ago? 2013 is when I did it. It's on the back, -Eight years ago. so, you know, it just has do these differently than I do my normal paintings, -Which one should I pull? I could show something -Well I don't know - -From the internet. -What did the guy - what was he trying to -I don't know. Talked about approaching background brush work. I'm not really sure. -Okay, I think - Okay like transition in rows. it but - -You did transition in rows? -Transition in rows yeah. -Oops. Is it one of these things you sent -No. -Oh. -It's one of my paintings. -Okay. Well, I'll go to this one while I -Okay. -That's a beautiful - -Yeah. This one I included because it just of myself with this one because I achieved her face very tiled out. I didn't really blend squint down or just get, you know, a little It doesn't bother you. Her face doesn't look fight or anything like that. It looks - it though it's very textural. -There's two transition in rows. There's one the ground. Which one are you looking for? -The one on the chair. -Okay. -I don't know what the one in the ground. -It's like the same fabric. Looks like the -Yeah. But this one I think is a good one talking about. I mean, it's hard to say. -Is it on your website? Cuz I'm only getting -It's - I don't know. I'm sure it is. Somewhere talking about this one. this is a good one fabric that wrapped around her waist very detail too much. Just the big you know, areas and I left a lot of the underpainting coming a Rembrandt raw amber and so - but see with job on this one. So, see how - maybe zoom out real quick and scrappiness, the dry brushing and the roughness to the softness of her skin, right? The textures and they magnify each other, right? So, a You know, I see that in Russian academic still you know, a fish and an egg and a like a sculpture and what it does is it just enhances each So, if you put an egg next to - I don't know, makes the - -Potato sack. -Huh? -Potato sack. -Potato sack, yeah. So, the potato sack will but I think that's what he's talking about. the chair is kind of a shiny brown - well, don't know. I just think - the whole goal twist on her waist. You know, that was the else is just an addition to that, right? So, important but I don't want it to take screaming, you know, look at me. Everything a little bit of a cash shadow from her arm and that's what I was going. Oh shit - [Laughter] -What happened? It's alright dude. -A little spill. -It's a painting studio, we'll clean it -So, yeah, it just depends on what your focal so that's gonna determine how abstract your that's an old painting and I really liked [Laughter] If you wanna print. it's really by 20 I think or something like that. Well -Kati asks &quot;How do you recommend using - or or warm ones and how can you tell the difference -Well, Kati, nothing exists in isolation, you know, and, you know, what I was saying and the addition is the warmer yellow, the okra becomes cool compared to it. so, yeah, you're going for. I don't recommend warm yellow or cool yellow, utilitarian color to use for flesh tones, you know, they don't have cad yellow complexions yellow, that's a real harsh lighting source bit more natural, a little more earth toney, recommend the cooler the yellow ochre versus that I recommend I told, you know, Rembrandt, and they're not expensive I mean, they're student-grade paint but you know, they're paints and I highly recommend them. -Have you tried yellow ochre pale? -Yeah. Mm hmm. -Would you do zone palette with ochre pale? -No. -No? -Cuz it's kinda washed out. If you add white what I mean? -Okay. -It's not that different. -So, it's not a little warmer? -I mean, it depends a brand but the brands a difference that I'm like, &quot;I gotta use it&quot;. it's yellow white I would use - I was using -Here, try this one. [Inaudible] and see if -Ha ha, this almost looks exactly like the know what I mean? It just - I'm gonna put -Yeah it is - -Slightly lighter, you know what I mean? -Yeah. -I mean, look at that. Look at that. You can't -Can you smudge the one - the pale as well -It looks a little - yeah, a little lighter. warmer honestly. -Yeah. -But like, you know, fifteen percent. -Right. It won't make a difference in the -Right, exactly. Yeah, not enough to, you a lot of colors. They're just trying to sell - it's not like a good thing necesarily. And with color, you know how colors are made, have so many colors on your palette. be confident three colors or five colors and it's fun. I did this one painting, it's one of my favorite I did it with Phthalo blue and black and it range on it too. I made it a little more high that I limited the value range. it looks just -Did you use white? -Yeah. yeah, it's Phthalo blue, black and a number - barely a number eight, you know, was 10 and white is 1. -Is that painting online somewhere? -Yeah, if you type in like Aaron Westerberg [Laughter] -Are you sure you want me to type that in? -Oil painting. -&quot;Oil painting&quot;. [Laughter] -Yeah. OnlyFans. -Now I'm actually gonna. OnlyFans, yeah. &quot;Aaron Westerberg Let's see what happens. -Okay. I'm scared. -Oh, I think the very first result is actually this is the one. Is that it? Oh why is it -I can't see it. -Stretched out? Or no. Is it stretched out? -No. That one. -Yeah. That's it. Does it look too stretch? -No. -Okay. -No. That's perfect. But see her hair is only -Yeah. -Right? -Yeah. -So, very limited in color and value and you so it's just an experiment and, you know, you know, and the background is really thin, know, not super thick but more opaque than pretty thin. you can kinda see on the ground, especially like on her feet, see how - it's just a cooler no paint basically. and see I'm grouping you know, and that's the way I like to paint. I want the viewer to participate in my paintings -Yeah I could see what you're talking about has more texture and then the skin is much -Right. Yeah. See how they play off one another. so just to talk about the demo a little bit. - when you're painting is keeping your pallet a mess right now, so I'm just gonna clean up some of my flesh tones, okay? and always canvas, you know, I'll mix up way more color and I want to keep all my big experimentation just a matter of, you know, it looks more I don't want it to look labored. Okay, let me just back up a little bit here So, I guess I'll just - -You're gonna be mixing the flesh tones? -Yeah, I'm gonna mix some flesh tones so I not use any of the previous mixtures. So, this mixture is gonna be yellow ochre, red, question about what I'm mixing. [Laughter] -The the three colors or the four colors in -So, this is just red and black, right? Which black, right? Gonna mute it down - -Green, red and yellow. -What did I say? orange? -You said red and black. -Oh, okay. well, you get it. so, I mixed all color here a little bit to gray it down, so a little bit more yellow ochre and red into that's what I'm looking for right now and and then I'm gonna open it up, alright? so, you know, &quot;open it up&quot; means add white, bit more and right now what I'm trying to color for her, you know, for her face and here. you can't see but they look real dark -Can you tell people why you're using a pallet -Yeah it's a lot easier to use a pallet I was using a brush, it would be hard to clean I can just wipe it right off and I can control easier to mix large and also a lot more paint. this canvas that I'm using is slightly porous. number 12 and it's just mounted to a MDF panel. up this color. Okay, does that make sense? color. So, I'm gonna vary that a little bit I get a little bit more of the variety of -What have you done? You want me to go on -No, no, I had to move my canvas a little. -No, nothing. If you wanna move it down a -No. -No, okay. -No. that's right on the top too anyway. You see the thing? Yeah, see, it's right on top I hate that little lip right there that covers can see a lot of red in her face, you know, back up and just, you know, her circulation, of red in it. so, now I have a value spread of the flesh those in and I'm gonna start with the easiest are easy, you know? so, there's a few of them that in a second. I just wanted to kinda get -What's wrong with my brush? -This little cast shadow here and just kind hair, it's just blocked in right now. You you know, here and here and those are gonna but right now, it's just kind of, you know, else but I really just wanna get some color else, you know? that's the thing, it's hard to start just just nowhere and start playing with color, paintings, you know, so if you put, you know, color there and start working all over a little and relate the colors within each other, okay? I'm still gonna, you know, this still is gonna it's not much going on but, you know, I wanna then you know, go forward from there into some of the shadows in there, gonna put some some of the half tones in between those two another thing that a lot of people don't realize You know, it's light, so you can use it guess what? Cad red won't get chalky. You up, it's actually going to, you know, add lighten up a color, and at the same time, her mouth is you know, it's slightly open right now. You know, her teeth and everything Okay, so now what I wanna do is get kind of from light into shadow on her face. that shadow there's a fair degree reflected by bouncing chin area and I just wanna start getting that get rid of this underpainting color. Do you -Yeah. -Okay, fire them up. -So, this one is it's about your approach - probably Richard Schmidt - &quot;start a painting -That's a good - -He's probably - hold on - &quot;The way they paint schools teach. Do you ever approach a painting -So, you approached it linearly in the beginning shapes, right? Like kinda, you know, shapes. -Mm hmm. -And then you fill in the shadow. -I outlined the boundaries and filled them -Yeah, exactly. So, he somehow like, do you start with just like a blocky form and then -It just depends on what I'm painting. you just worry about the big light and dark patterns way. Almost always, you know, just give myself I can, I try to get rid of my lines. you know, as soon as I can. That's what I'm kinda rushing these little - the lines that are in here But, you know, and Schmidt, you know, he started very linear too. you know, there's several done where it's a line drawing or an under book. there's one is a iron fence and it's drawing of an iron fence first and then he So, it just depends on what you're painting he paints, you know, he does full underpaintings it's exactly like Rembrandt. You know, almost as Rembrandt. So, you know, glazing, scraping, Yeah, it just depends on what you're going even just like if it's a human or not just, painting it like Odd Nerdrum or are you're or I don't know if you know who Eugene Carriere and blocky also, some of them. but yeah, it now? -No, I think you answered it. -Okay, good. -Another question - &quot;sometimes&quot; - this is I'll come across a colour on my reference tell what colour it is. What approach do you -Well, try to look at that color next to a You know, but whenever I don't know a color, and then try to think of a word that describes I'll put down a green that I'm trying to mix is this color green missing that is you know, needs more yellow, needs, you know, desaturated. You're narrowing your options. So, you know, of the color but it could be, you know, but So, it just depends on you know, and how critical is value. You know, getting the value right. You know, you just try to adjust the temperature, value is not right, then, you know, you're -Okay, you want another question? -Yeah. -It's a very technical one. &quot;How does pyrrol P-Y-R-R-O-L. Have you heard of that red? No? to compare it to cadmium red but you don't -Mm-mm. -I've never heard of that color either. This one of those 'what brushes do you use' questions. of their affordability, but they seem to 'swallow' the paint on the painting like they are supposed with some artists because they lay the paint What are some good brands, or styles of brushes ones do?&quot; -Yeah, Okay, good question, Kelly. I would, those cheap, you know, like synthetic brushes all like packaged together and different sizes. cuz a lot of times I buy those even though and they're fine. You know, there's nothing use Rosemary brushes, they're really good new brushes - I mean, I don't know how new -Which? -They're - I don't know what they are. it Long Combers brushes, right? and I like these brushes but in general, almost every paint brushes, right? Which are great. You know, you get em all different sizes and these are really well and you know, they're all different. my hand. these are Princeton. -I'm gonna zoom in to your palette to show see it? -Yeah. -It's kinda blurred but just keep it closer -Okay. Yeah. Anyway, this is the Princeton - -Colinsky? -It's C-O-L-I-N-S-K-Y. Yeah. Colinsky. so, brushes and you know, you can - those are brush that I use all over the place are - these brushes. I get them in all different sizes, all sizes and these brushes generally I use everything in and these are a lot more inexpensive you go through them more. They're, you know, hog bristle and generally painting and then the more you refine the you start demanding a brush that's not gonna off the, you know, take off the paint at that brushes, they'll take off the paint if you thick, you know. my color studies, you know, it's all bristle on these. So, they're all very, you know, These are all about paint and color. They're finesse. So, I hope that helps. It's all in -This one. -Proko/Westerberg. -Proco.com/Westerberg. -Yeah, Proko.com. -It's on the screen. -Okay. -Let's see. &quot;Do you always paint directly approach changing the pose or rotating the when creating a painting? Supposing you can't -So, I guess you're talking about painting changes, I'll change it back to what I'm painting. -Or just even if you're painting from photo it from what you see. -Yeah, I do that almost every single time photo reference. I'm not gonna just, you know, reference. you know, I'll change it to whatever know, draw it in the photo reference, you So, it just depends on what it is but if I'm or so in and the lighting changes, I'm in - I don't know, you know, that's a different lighting a lot of times is the backbone of got a lot of light and shadow. So, you know, try to get it back to whatever it was at the changes to the painting. So, when I was - that reminds me, you know, into a lot of these - the open workshops, and I was always a real stickler for making same way each time. You know, like we had one or two positions in the class where the her cheek or something like that. and so, make sure that you know, she was in the same someone to that position but just depends know, it's important aspect of painting. You -Okay. &quot;How do you know when you've got all on to the next one, as opposed to digging a finish? Hard as a self-taught painter not me to get on with it.&quot; -Oh yeah. No, same thing. Yeah, I'm pretty to draw from Jeff but painting I learned from called discipline and you kinda gotta know lose your objectivity and I work with a mirror all along the way when I'm painting it so image. so yeah, it just - it's a hard thing know when you're burnt out, you know, when at the beginning. and a lot of times what I do too is I take you know, sometimes I'll say well I should I'm doing a similar thing then I will stop at the reference that, you know, I should a lot of times you learn those things by doing help you ever, you know, all the time. it's there but you gotta be your own critic, you give yourself criteria as to when something out of it, you know, and you can just - you if you want before the painting's done. Sometimes that helps but yeah, it's just a a lot of times what I do to do that besides few paintings at one time, at least two. I'll way I don't get as or bogged down on one painting. more objectivity between the two paintings Generally too, I like to work on one painting studies, you know, that that's how I've gone know, one painting that's really tight and to work pretty good. -Someone's asking if you're gonna blend. -Yeah yeah. right now I'm just blocking in. in here and everything but right now I'm just just trying to get that all air. once I get and all that kind of good stuff, then I'll with the color, okay? so, if I have two colors next to each other generally I'll put a color in between those of those two colors to blend rather than just You know, it just looks much cleaner and much nice Starbucks [Inaudible]. -[Chuckles] Sponsored by Starbucks. -And Bumble. -You wanna put your Bumble hat back on? -Oh yeah. -[Laughter] We're just kidding. It's not actually -Gotta pay the bills. Gotta pay the bills. -Oh yeah. There you go. What a sell out. -I wish they would give me money. that's so know, so it's got like - there's a bunch of -Just put one of your brushes in there instead. -Just mix it around. -Yeah. -I want the goods. It's just like the straw -[Laughter] I can see how blimsy -Erectile dysfunction straw. man, it's so much chocolate in there, so much. -You want me to go find a strawberry? -No, no. -No? -Let's not complain about it. -You sure? -Any thoughts on oils versus acrylics? -Oils are better. [Laughter] -Yeah. -I mean, acrylics dry real fast, oils don't. can get oils to dry fast and acrylics to dry that acrylics do with oils. You know, so that's paintings in acrylic, like I'll do - I'll draw it out with pencil and then I'll put real fast and then I can just go right on times, especially when there's like complex of my friend Mike that I did, he had a plaid -The guy that looks just like you? -No, that's Chris. -Oh. -Mike is - he's blonde. He is a rock climber. So I did a painting of him and his gear, his archives. -What was it? What's the name of the painting? -I don't know. if you just type in like my it's on my Instagram somewhere too but couldn't of a boatyard. -Captain Mike? -Captain Mike, that's it. Yeah. And there's -Is it cut off at the bottom of his chest? -Yeah, like right here. -It does, okay. -Yeah. It got a real tall - -Okay, I found it. Here it is. -That's it. That's it. good job, Stan. yeah, but there's a lot of dry brushing in that coming through in a lot of the areas. but on there, you know, so I just wanted them go over them in oil. yeah, that's a good example out. and if you look real close in his glasses, of his glasses. I'm not gonna say what it -What? -I don't wanna get demonetized. -What? -I'm just kidding. -Wait, is it really something bad? -No. -Okay. It looks just like a road with a building -Yeah, it's a building. It's two buildings -Yeah. -Thanks for ruining the mystery. -[Laughter] You didn't have to admit. -Well, I wanted to have some kind of a lure. -I like the way you painted the - -Sky? -Sky. All these little tiles. -Yeah, that - you know, that's a good example paintings, you know, because they. I started how many years ago - 2013 maybe. I don't even from doing the color studies and the color studies. It's his fault. But he's oh my goodness, I can't get this color right. See, right now my problem with this color it a little bit, right? so, you know, you just add black to it, you know, like black, that color. so what I'm gonna add to it is of white to the black blah blah right there the color just a little bit, right? and yeah, So, I just wanna get some variations of that more red. It's that's one thing that's easy but it's so - there's a lot of power to it. -Yeah, I got all the images. Which one do -The chart. The color chart. -Color chart. Let's see. -Yeah. I didn't see it. -Color chart? -Yeah, I didn't see it. -Oh, I think it was in the original Email I can grab it. -Okay. -It's a Zorn palette chart, right? -Yeah. -Okay, yeah, I know what you're talking about. -Okay, yeah, that just shows, you know, some a little cross section of the palette. It's doing it. You know, you can see and that blog website with the new additions to the palette just different colors. So,you can look at -Okay, here comes the chart. Alright, there -And it's labeled. So, you can see at the mixed with each of the colors and you know, black mixed with red, black mixed with yellow those beautiful colors, you know, tons of and the next one is red, you know, black with red with white alone and then the two mixes then the last two columns right there are just to kinda finish off the chart in terms know, that's a pretty nice variety of color -Yeah it's kinda crazy actually how that's -It's just three colors, yeah. -And black. that's an ivory black you have -Yeah. -Cuz it does have a bluish tint. It's not -Yeah. -Maybe it's just in on the screen here but -No no, it's pretty blue. Well, I don't know -[Inaudible] oh yeah, yours is even bluer. -But, you know, that versus Mars black is painters in particular use Mars black and fast so you can paint on top of it. That's this one Fechin painting at an auction and in a black robe, right? Holding a kachina It was just dark black silhouette shape and thick. Just you know, as much paint as you of like opposite of, you know, 101 19th century your darks thin so they don't reflect light but he had thin areas around that thick black maximizes thick and thins but just kinda went so, it doesn't matter what you do exactly. you're looking for. Does that make sense? -Yeah. -Cuz the variety is the most important thing. -That's hilarious. Someone just said that -Oh really? -It's a profile that in the dark shape looking face. Brow ridge - Kinda looks like Jeff Watts -Oh, ha ha ha. -And there's an eye even. -[Laughter] That's hilarious. -Let's show them, there's - is that the eye? -Yeah. -It totally looks like Jeff Watt. -It does. -Holy crap. -He's he's haunting us. [Laughter] -Stop. -And look, you have - look at this, X-ray -Is that a crypto thing or is it Superman? -It's a Jeff thing. -What are you - Jeff thing. -I don't know. but yeah, good call on that. -Yeah. great likeness, Aaron. -Yeah. Good job. I mean, it's effortless. gonna talk about? Oh the Sargent. -Sargent, you wanna do that? -Okay, yeah, let's do that. Okay so - -Okay, wait, let me pull it up. -Okay. I'll set it up though. I'll set it know, a lot of people thinks Sargent's a really good&quot; you know. So, it's like well what makes - his drawing, his color, his composition. it figure painting, you can call it people he does the best is he economizes values. than almost everybody [Chuckles]. You know, painting but I'm gonna show you - Oh yeah, -[Laughter] It's already shown. -Well, just zoom in or just show the color -There. -Okay. So, you see this picture here? the that we see most dominantly, you know, there's on the side of the face where there's not changes, you know, the cheekbone is, you know, then underneath his jaw is facing kind of but if you look close, you'll see, you know, This color, this one's richer than the one -No, it's exactly the same. You're just seeing -Okay. but you see like around his eyes, kind then it goes to kind of an orange as you go it goes to that green color underneath his same value. There's hardly any difference So he's changing the color of the plains instead it black and white, you can see that the values of the face, you know. -I'll zoom in to the black and white one for -Yeah, see - I mean, look, it's just, you and white one at all, yet in color, it doesn't flat in black and white, kind of, you know, change and that's oh, magnificent. so, you color changes on the side of his face right orange to the green and Sargent does that it does is it holds the drawing or the structure a bunch of different values and that is the too many values. They're trying to be real it doesn't work. You know, it doesn't necessarily It just makes it look like there's more stuff so Sargent was really good at doing that always, with whatever he's drawing, you know, and my art history is good it's not great, it's people to ever do that was Vasquez, Vasquez them, you know, I don't really know too many or to group values. It's hard to see anyone -Someone asked &quot;What do you mean by values?&quot; -Values? The the lightness or darkness of -Light to dark. -Yes. -White to black. -White to black. -All the different shades of gray but then -Right. -There can be a dark yellow or light yellow. -Yes. and the most important aspect of a painting color on top. -Would you say value is more important than -I don't know if you can you have one without -Well, you could mess one up, you know, saying you know. -If the shapes are really bad but the values -Really? -Yeah, sure. -You'd say value is still more important than -Well, think about um, think about like - yeah, his paintings are real dreamy and kinda soft, -Yeah. -But the values are right. -Well, but the shapes if they're not correct that they might just be ugly shapes, bad shapes. -Yeah. Well then - -You know, cuz you could change the photo looks amazing, could look better. -Oh yeah, for sure. But I mean, so I don't what - like in a bad way or -? -Well no, they just ask what are values. I -Oh, Okay. -That was my question. -It depends. -I was just challenging it cuz you said value -Yeah. I mean, if you wanna break that down is probably more important than value, you you know, it doesn't matter how good the values wrong spot. so yeah, drawing number one but just stress out about color and if you think you know, just gets rid of that pressure because the values right, and then you can adjust how I'm using it, you know, just to get rid attitude towards color, just find it complicated muted. there's not a lot of saturation in So, you know, it's, you know, if you keep but if you keep your colors fairly muted, -By the way we're about - we're a little over -Oh, we're over two hours? -Yeah. [Laughter] -Shit dude. We're at 2:05, fuck. Oh, I can't -You can say &quot;fuck&quot;. -Oh okay, jeez. so frustrating. Okay, let's block in her face and get that done. I think -I know. When you're answering questions, -Yeah, for sure. -Cuz you're judging time based on how finished -Yeah. -Right [Laughter]? Cuz usually you go at the -Yeah. And I'm being like Cavalier with my let me give it a thought. -Yeah. I'll pause the questions and you so that your mind is in one place. -okay. Yeah, whatever. I'm just - yeah. -I'm just not gonna think. -Yes. Well, I mean, that's surprising. I mean, even look at it, you know, half the time. -No, I mean, we're good. You can keep painting. -My iPad came with a clock. -Yeah? -Yeah. -Does it work? -Yeah. I mean, it says it's 2:06. Is that -Yeah, 2:05:39. -Okay. Well, mine's trash then. -Yours is not working. [Laughter] -God, that [Inaudible]. Who's your favorite -It's Fechin. -Oh yeah? -Yeah. I mentioned him so often that he can't -He's pretty good. -I don't know why cuz I don't paint anything -I mean,that's okay. you know, I think, you and drawings but I think Fechin's drawings far as drawings - -Mm-hmm. -I think his are the best. just like, you -[Laughter] You win... -You said the most in the most elegant way, -Yeah. -You just - you win. you know, his paintings clearly his drawings are unique. you know, of whole buying, you know, they're very whole -Wow. You got - you got a thing [Inaudible]. -I'm like a - well I'm like a - -You like kinda? -Well, I don't know. It's just slang. I shouldn't are gorgeous. His drawings are some of the -They're getting expensive now I think. Like -Should've been more expensive a long time -It's hard - it's like fewer even for sale. -Mm-hmm. He did more than you think too. You Turners. -I do. I have a - I have like 15 Max Turners. -I do too. -I bought them for so cheap. -Yeah, I did too. -They were like $20 each for originals. I'm -It's like, Oh my god. you know, I was in always in the workshop. -Yeah, that's where I got it too. -Well, I would - he would give me paintings. -Oh god. -You know, I'll be like, oh Max, that's really you just give him a compliment and he gives when to compliment him. but yeah, I have a in general. -Yeah, here we go. -Let's show them. -Yeah. I got like three right here. -Need to hold them. -Yeah. it's a little blurry if you - and yeah, -It looks kinda distorted in the photo. -It is. You turn it a little towards the left. -Let me see if I can. -Yeah, that's good. -But he did similar - I mean, they're very paper and the thing with rice paper is you -[Inaudible] that way. -Which way? this way? -towards the camera, right there. -Yeah. -There's the camera. -Yeah, it's good. -It's blurry if you bring it too close cuz -Yeah. See, I'll tell you some tricks. I'm a little bit on these and so, you see how -Oh, that's the same one. Here's another one. -Yeah. You see how he has this real textural in particular? you know, what he would do? than here? -Yeah. -Do you know why it's only right there? -He put stuff underneath. -Oh. Yeah. -I was in the workshop. -Alright, yeah. [Laughter] -Okay, well, you know - yeah, but he was great. -I forgot what he put underneath though. What -Just like a gesso panel. -Oh yeah. Okay. -You know, nothing too fancy. But yeah, he's a hard time in class. -How's he doing? -He passed away like - -He did? -Two years ago. -Oh. -His sleeping [Inaudible]. -Was he peaceful? I didn't hear about it. -I forgot exactly how he passed away. -Okay. -I don't remember. I mean, I went to - they to - they had a wake for him and I went to like a while ago, he got cancer and beat it. -Oh wow. -You know, so - cuz he was a sculptor for of chemicals that you use when you're sculpting really bad for you. so, I thought, you know, and he might have, I don't know but he, you life. There's actually a documentary on him -No. -Oh, it's great. Norm Nason made it and it's it's maybe 15-20 minutes long. -Will do. Well, he lived really long, I mean -Yeah. -He was in his 90s, right? -Yeah. -So, yeah. I mean, the chemicals didn't affect -Not so much. Yeah, not as much as I thought - he'd always come around to us and be like for? You're not gonna use half of them&quot;. He -I took his drawing workshop. I don't know -At the - where'd you take it at? The California -No, he came to the Watts. -Oh, really? That's cool. -Yep. -Yeah, he was just like a institution, you at the school, just always there and I just, -Okay, let's do another question. I'll look This is interesting. &quot;I assume that I can use Zorn with watercolor? Is it a good idea -Of course. Of course. In fact, Zorn did watercolor examples of his watercolors. Maybe you can girls doing their hair in the kimonos. Do of the thing in the thing. -The thing in the thing? -Uh-huh. -Let me see. The girl - Wait, which one? -The two girls. One's behind the other one You find it? -Oh, there. It's tiny. -Yeah. -This one. -Yeah, look at that. Watercolor. Gorgeous. -Oh, that's a watercolor? -Yeah. -Oh, my god. -Yeah. And it's actually lighter than that. isn't like so black like that. It's lighter. of yellows and - but, you know, look at the One's like blue, you know, basically black it. But I think this picture's a little bit -Yeah, someone put some contrast on it. -Yeah, a little contrast and a little saturation. she's got like a red circle around her head, you know. It's just there's no question what look at her face. You know, don't look at this girl's face, surrounding it with a red circle, almost. the focal point is. And it's done in a way that's, you know, I think it's nice. But, you know, it's really are, honestly, but it doesn't bother me ever. Like, in almost every single one of his, he almost all of 'em, like, you have a nude girl - the girl will have like, a little bit of Like, either her ear, her nose, or a ribbon that. It's just - he's never - not never, You know, hey, look here and wants you to look and where the eye moves. There's a couple movies about him, actually. -Really? -Uh huh. They're in different languages. -Like documentaries or movies? -No, like actors and everything. -What? -Yeah. -Are they good? -Well, you know, it's fun. The movies are but he likes to paint the naked ladies all bother me, I'm painting the naked ladies&quot; So that's, you know, it's almost like [Laughter] you know. This one, in particular, movie. rare, you know, it's hard to find that one. better, I don't know. I'm from the old school, where we had to go and finding a Loomis book in print was - -You're so old. -I know. Old school. Couldn't use Amazon. -What about pastels, though? Have you ever -Oh yeah. -Cuz - can you just use two, a yellow, red, -Well, yeah. I mean, [crosstalk] the difference spread. You can't just, you know, push lighter. -Yeah, right. -You know, like in charcoal. You have to have you know. -Right. -So - -It's a little different. -It's different. It's different but for good pastels? -Morgan Wisely. -No. Well, maybe but - -Who else? -But that's not a lie. Is William Merritt if you want, and pastel. And you'll see a where the girl's kinda leaning. She's in a leaning on her arm. But those are all real limited and very, you century, I mean also, you know, Chase and by those Japanese prints. So, they're very -But is it like a lady in a green dress in -Well, that's one of 'em but the one I'm talking sounds like a portrait one. -Yeah. It's from the back. Yeah and she's -She's - -She's looking in the mirror? -Huh? -Looking in the mirror? -No, that's a good one too. But no, she's like chopped. Just - it's like a half figure. -Okay, well I think this is it but I don't -He did a bunch. He was a member of - he had -This one? -No, that's not it. That's a oil painting or something like that. There was a separate -Are you sure that was an oil? That looked -It looked like oil to me but I don't know. -Okay. -Look like watercolor, almost. But - -I think if you saw the details in there. -Maybe. -Here, I'll show you again. Alright, I'm gonna Pastel. -Not necessarily, back up again. Yeah, maybe Yeah, on her mirror, looks like pastel. -Yeah, that's probably pastel. Whoa, I figured -Alright. -I wanted to do that. [Laughter] -Alright, party time. But he did like - oh, and Kimono. I bet you that'll do it. No? -Hey, what's going on? Is it - no, it's not -Okay. Well, he did a bunch of nudes in pastel, that are super tight. You know, like really Whistler did a bunch of pastels and water -I'm finding more of his pastels but I don't -Yeah, it's alright. Chase did a lot of self -This one? I know it's not probably the one. -Yeah, I don't like that one too much. I've cropped end, too. There's a lot of open space the - but, yeah. The thing with pastels is Do you know what I mean by that? -Pastelas? No, I didn't know that. -Yeah, it's really toxic. Cuz, I mean, the you're, you know, using red and, you know, of the paper that you use is like sandpaper, And, you know, it's - you know, you're - that you know, as you're making a mark with it. The pastel color? -Yeah. -But also, you're touching it, right? So, -It's getting in your finger - under your -Well, yeah. It's in your skin, just on your like holding a warmer color. -Wear gloves, I guess. -Yeah, wear gloves and don't breathe and you'll -[Laughter] Don't breathe. -Some people have like a vacuum on the bottom sucked up into the vacuum. -Nice. -But - -Wear a mask. -Yeah wear a mask, take shallow breaths. I of pastels cuz it's so toxic. It's fine, -Hey, we got a donation in the YouTube chat. -Really? -Yeah. -Is she part of the Only Fans? I didn't know -Yeah. That's about $1.50. -Oh. -USD. -Oh. -Thank you, Monica. -Something else I wanted to say. -I know. I saw that, I was like, what? 6,000? -Can they do that in a thing? Can they pay? super questions? -Yeah, actually. That's what - this was in do that on Proko yet. -Oh. -But this was on YouTube. Alright, let's see Zorn palette for still life or does it mostly -It's mostly portraits. You know, one of move and it's there forever. So, it's a chance drawing and everything. So, I would not use this Zorn palette for -I mean, it's mostly for skin. I mean, that -Mm hmm. -So if you're doing a still life - I mean, brown - -Perfect. -Yeah. -Or, you know - but it's red and yellow or black. So anything that falls into those if you want, maybe, pull up that landscape a rainy cityscape. -Is it one of the ones you sent? -Yeah. -Okay. -It's a girl outside and she's it's like a -Not that one, right? -No, that's Sargent. -A girl outside, let me see. This one? -Yeah. See, so that's gorgeous. You know, raining. You know, with his own palette. -Yeah. -But, you know, it's limited. -Yeah. He has green in there, though, for got blue and green in it, but it is still -Yeah. For sure. It's weird that blue sign -He might not even have red in this one, actually. -Yeah. Well, there's a little bit of red on -That looks like orange. Oh, it's different. two monitors I'm seeing. On one, it looks it's more of a reddish orange but whatever. -Yeah. You know, generally, most of the paintings When you see 'em in person, they're much less just juice up the paintings so, you know, One of - you know what? Here's a story. There's time ago and I saw, you know, the Sargent -Yeah. -It's one of the most famous ones cuz he scraped I saw that painting next to a painting that he did of his sister was way better. It was I was very surprised at how good the painting photos, it's - don't get it at all. But in that's Lady Agnew and yeah, that's actually Because, well, the one I'm looking at on this think. The background's pretty light. You really push that contrast but it really looks In fact, the background kinda looks chalky, you know, painting of Violet Sargent and she's But she has this little smirk and she has and it is just so well done. And the drawing across in any photo that I've ever seen of Cuz I, you know, I went back and looked it you know, to how I saw it in person. You know, surprised. So you never know. You gotta look at things one thing about pastels that is actually good, and study from the paintings with the pastels. You know, you kinda hold the pastels, just know or care. You can't really bring oils museum unless you get permission. But pastels, they're good. You know, get a really nice pastels. I think they're - there's that it's under the umbrella of Rembrandt I just I can't remember their name, I totally -I think - -But they're kind of known for making good -No, this is Rembrandt. -Yeah. Are those pastels right there, that -No. I don't think so. I don't think I have -You should get some pastels. -These are watercolors, never mind. -But yeah, Rembrandt is Royal Talent. That's they make all kinds of different paint and oil or water-based oil paints too, called -I've never tried 'em but I think I've about -Yeah, they've got a lot better over the years. But most schools are - they don't even allow So, it's either water-based oils or - they -Do you still do daily gesture drawings, sketches, eye in shape? I mean, is it something I need -Well, I mean, I don't really do things to -Did you ever before? -No. I mean, I do color studies, you know, far as color, you know, what I mean? But I I don't do them, you know, to get warmed up It's a lot like being a musician, you know, practice my chops but I wanna do it in a way know, practice my scales by playing the scales I wanna, you know, put them into a song or be the same thing as, maybe, a better metaphor it's easier to stay in shape by, you know, arts or something like that. Rather than just going to the gym working find a sport that you like, it's a lot easier all, you know, all that kind of stuff. But I don't ever wanna look at painting as to maintain. You know, I mean, it's true a something, the better you'll get at it. Whatever So, oil painting or, you know, I used to go Yyou know, that was that was fun but, you just nice to get outside and, you know, paint -I think it depends on like, where you are, it - like you, for example, you started doing doing the color studies, were you doing them you wanted to practice doing color? Right? -So that's - yeah. -So you started with color studies and now in galleries. -Yeah. Well, I don't really sell them in galleries. -Oh, you don't? But you - oh, well, you sell -Just, yeah, just Instagram. -Okay. -Yeah. So I - yeah, I never did those to sell the story of why I started making them public -Yeah. But you started doing them to practice -The only reason I did them is because Dan -Yeah. -And he's really good at color so I believed -Yeah. -But, yeah. Because I didn't know color and way to learn color. Very painful. Very very -Yeah. -I mean, no - I've never seen anyone else You know. Never seen Dan do one, never seen -You've never seen Dan paint before? -Nope. -What? -Yeah. -You never took his workshop? -No. The only time was the time that you were -Okay. -That mentor day. And he did paint Leonardo's -Yeah. -His painting cuz I remember at the end of I mean, his painting is pretty much Dan's And I've been at a couple paint outs with - he didn't paint. You know. -What did he do? -He went around and talked to people. And at that and just didn't paint. People would -Yeah, everybody would just probably huddle -Yeah, exactly. So, he - one thing that he just traveled around the world painting. You wife used to be a flight attendant so he got that. And, you know. But yeah, it's a weird thing. would see him like once or maybe twice a year, And he'd say, more of this, less of that and Who is good at doing color studies? And he'd anybody that was good. Really. Like, even that few figure painters are good, you know. He never said Sargent. You know, he never say. He would say like, Thayer. Thayer was is? -No. -You don't know who Thayer is? -No. -T-H-A-Y-E-R. -Let me look him up. -He's one of the best painters in history. -T-H-A-Y-E-R. -Yeah, Abbott Thayer. -Okay. -You have to know who he is. -Perhaps I do this thing [Inaudible] -Well, yeah. Some of these paintings are somewhat - -A few artists copy him almost exactly right -Well, was he the first to do that? I mean -Thayer? -He was the first to put wings on - -No, but he did it, like, a lot. -Yeah. -And he did it with his family. -Okay. -Just family member - wait - -But I mean? Huh? -Like family members that are alive? -Well, they were when he did them. -Yeah. -They weren't like, death portraits. -I don't know. It's not maybe, like, you know, -No, I mean he did it to like - -Let's make him an angel. -Yeah. [Laughter] -I don't know. -Yeah. -But I got some - think images on the screen. -Oh, cool. -Let's switch. -Just the people. -That's good. -But there's a - -Yeah. That's right outside of his house. -Yeah. -And that looks tiny. -There's another one. -Yeah, that one's big. - Yeah. I love the colors in the sky and like, a violet, there's a blue right in there in -Yeah, that's the thing. He uses color different find like a snow scene, the snow will be like purple, green, blue. You know, just like colors -Mm hmm. -You know, but yeah, look at - that's a -It's purple. -Yeah, that was good. And with him, he - like, It's like, I don't know, 32 by 36 or something small studies. He doesn't use photography that he did live. You know, he could've done that painting 15, up the Autry every year, you know, at the see his paintings in person in like, February, You go to see that show? -I used to every year but I haven't for a -Yeah, he shows there and he shows at the, yeah, he's really good. He just - he thinks just very different. So - -Two and a half hours. -Oh, okay well. Let me - okay. I'll just - I'll -That's much pressure. -I know. I just - -You're like rebooting or something. -I know. No, it's fine. I just - I mean, I night. It's so - -You did a practice painting? -Yeah and it went way faster. -Of course, it went way faster. -Not of course, I didn't know. You know, I -When the camera turns on - -Well, the questions, I think. -But even with the camera - cuz, man, I told last month and he did a similar thing. Where watches a lot of the streams that - if he -Morgan watches movies while he paints. Like -Yeah. -A lot. -And they're amazing He paints in Procreate -Oh, really? Oh, what - [Crosstalk] -Have you seen his procreate paintings? -Yeah. -Amazing. Like his regular painting. -Right. And he usually writes, I did this have it to sell. -It's useless, yeah. -Yeah. No, he's a great painter. He shows -Yeah. But I was filming him last month and it took him 45 minutes. And then when we came, you know, we arrived there at 10 AM and we like 5 AM the next morning. Because the whole process just takes so long. like two and a half hours. Then he started he started the final painting until it was -So you guys are gonna have that coming out -Yeah we're gonna edit it, make it awesome. -So it's a portrait or what kind of a painting -We haven't revealed it. -Oh. Okay, I think I know what you - -It's right there, you can see it. -I know. -But don't talk about it. -It's a man about town. -What? -[Laughter] Okay, well, I'll just - let me So, you know, if I had more time, I would pattern of light and dark on her face. You can kinda see where I was going with - I things, you can see that I just I don't blend, end, basically. And again, you know, I like to blend by using together. So, like, you know, this part of light of the cheek, I put an intermediate the light to bridge the gap rather than just A lot of times - I'm surprised someone didn't you know, blend a really dark color into a -Medium color? [Laughter] -Mud. -Chalky. Yeah. Even chalky color. So, one things that I tell people in my classes is an edge without actually, you know, softening So, like a lot of times - like, this is the like this, the girl has dark hair and there's background. But I wanted to, you know, make I wouldn't, you know, blend the dark hair color to soften that transition. So, you know, I would use a color like this, right? To blend -A little bit. -Oh, I'll make it lighter just for the camera. that? -Yeah. -Okay. So because the value, it's kinda dark hair color, right? I don't really need to would soften it, you know, like the - oh, I would soften it like this, right? So it's, if I wanted to pretend this background color color with this color. This color would only be mixed into this intermediate the background. Then it would only touch the So, why? So, it wouldn't get chalky. You know, a really light color to a really dark color, - that's how I would do it. And - oh man, I didn't get to do any of the -Well, a lot of fun stuff. -You know, Q-tip stuff. -Q-tip stuff? -Yeah. You know, a lot of times I'll pick design calligraphy with the with the Q-tips, -There's also like a **** load of questions, -Oh, really? -We just like, we ran out of time. -Well, sorry. -But it was good. It's a good stream. -Okay. You can - I don't know. -Very informative. -Okay. It's good. That's good, I like that. got under the hood. -What? What? What did I show? -The Morgan Weistling video coming up. -Well, they didn't really get any sneak peek. -You told them about it. -I mentioned it before. -You told them about it. So that's pretty -Yeah. It's true. -He's one of the best painters in the country. -Yeah. -You know. -Yeah, he is good. -And so, that's cool. And then there's my -Oh, someone's asking, what was Jeff Watts' to paint from a book? I don't know. You probably [Crosstalk] -I didn't tell anyone. Well, here's the deal. okay. First of all, it's the Schmidt book. -Yeah. He loves the Schmidt book too. Yeah, the Schmidt - who else that good has -Nobody. -Sargent? No. You know, nobody. So - -Well, on painting? -Yeah. -On painting? Yeah, nobody. -Nobody. Right. I mean, there's what's his You know, his book on painting? -Wait, he has a how to book? -There's a book on his painting techniques, -Did he write it? -Yeah. -What? -Yeah. -No! -James Gurney brought it back in print. -Really? -Oh. You're like 10 years behind on this. the language, is difficult to understand because -Oh, yeah. The practice of oil painting and -There you go. It's a small paperback book and it was super rare. -Yeah? -Super rare. -James Gurney is one of the - -Isn't he your friends? He didn't even tell -Well. -Didn't even tell you. -This is 2012, dude. This is before I - I even know James back then. -That was when the book came out, 2012? -Yeah, 2012. -It's a good book. But, I mean, like one of bread, you know, to - why was it for? Yeah, would you use on a painting? I forget why -He probably didn't have Q tips. -Probably didn't. -So you use bread. You probably, you know, -It was something - -You could probably use it like a Qtip? -Yeah, it was something about varnishing or -Oh, really? -Yeah, it was something weird. -Oh, jeez. -But it's not, you know, dense. It's not the things cuz of the language but there you painting. Is that what it's called? -Yeah. Oil painting and drawing. -Yeah. -You have the hard cover or paperback? -I just have the little paperback. -Okay. -I don't know. Is there a hard cover? -Yeah but it looks like the cover is just -That might be the original. -Oh, you're probably right. Cuz it doesn't -Yeah. So - but up until 2012, that book was like rumor. It's like Solomon and - oh, show -Okay. -Solomon J Solomon - -Which painting do you want me to show? -Like, any of the four that come up, you know. Not the one where the guy's holding a girl. -I'll do my favorite one. -Okay. Yeah. -I'm interested to see what's your favorite -Come on, I'm pretty sure you know. -I would think the one you - -Why is it not opening? -[Inaudible] But Solomon J Solomon - -Not the line. -Did not work directly. He did not do Alla passion [Laughter] You and Jeff. -It's that one. -But yeah. But that's, you know, that's just -Yeah. You know. [Laughter] -You know. It's like what's bad about this -You know. -Nothing. -Whenever I start thinking about composition. -Yeah. -I'm just like going back and just trying -Yeah, this is Samson and Delilah. And it's talk about it. But anyway, it's one of the -Yeah. -Greatest greatest paintings ever. -So he wrote a book on how to draw and paint. -He did. -And I can't believe I don't know about it. -Yeah, you didn't know. -Okay. I'm gonna - I already or I just I already -So would you say that - would you say that -Yeah. -Okay. It's cool. What - -And, you know, what? They could they could -Proko.com/Westerberg. -Right here, boop. Proko.com/Westerberg Use you to Aaron for coming and doing this free demo. -Yeah, trying to do something and failing. really good book. But when I was learning So I couldn't remember him. But anyway, what I was gonna say before this there was like eight people in the class. classes a week and we begged him to teach But I think he taught us once. -Oh really? Oh man. -Yeah, another painting by number class. -You studied with him really early. -Yeah. Like 19- -Was he still in down town? -Yeah. -Oh, okay. Yeah, I wasn't - -This is like - yeah, no, you weren't there. -Wow. You're old dude. -Told you. Old and experienced wise. -Right. -But, yeah. He wasn't teaching like he teaches -Well, he's back to teaching like, one class -Oh. Well, I mean, but - -When I was there, it was like his peak. He -But, I mean, he has other people teaching -No, yeah. Yeah. But I'm some - of Jeff, specifically. -Yeah. -Teaching classes. -But when I was there, it was just Jeff and -Yeah. -Sometimes, he would have a class on Thursday and Sunday and that's it. -Cool. Well, now that everybody feels left end it? -Thanks for - -Oh, you're glowing, man. You are glowing. see the dust moving behind you. Let me see -The Viva paper towels, that's what it is. -Wait, oh my god. [Laughter] -That's a lot of dust. That's a great way -Thank you for watching. I hope you learned -Wonderful. -I guess that's it. Should I end it? -Yeah. -That sounds good. -Thank you guys so much, great questions. course. Bye. -Alright, yay. My iPad never went below a