-Hi, I'm Rick Steves. And right now, I'm the one of and there's lots more Thanks for joining me as we I love how in Europe, And here in the Alps, each In this special, we'll celebrate all across the Alps. In this &quot;greatest hits&quot; look we'll travel through each with its own unique [ Folk music playing ] Along the way, we'll see some of including the Matterhorn, and Mont Blanc, And we'll conquer many by train, enjoying plenty We'll explore charming alpine and hike to cliff-hanging And we'll savor hearty edible traditions particularly And finally, we'll hike, to a guided, classic, The Alps stretch across Europe to the French Riviera, and we'll scale peaks Germany, Austria, We start with Germany, Our first summit is in Bavaria, From there, we travel that historic region between Austria and Italy. We visit Innsbruck before crossing Brenner Pass From Kastelruth, Across the Alps, are investing And here in Bavaria, to experience The Zugspitze, is Germany's highest mountain. And this cable car zips us The cable is about 3 miles long. It's supported And it stretches nearly with no support at all. While there are many the Zugspitze is unique. It stands alone, offering a view Austria, Italy, The mountain marks the border From here, the Alps arc like from Vienna way in the east all the way where these mountains finally The Zugspitze summit As on so many European you'll find restaurants, shops, The Zugspitze is famed that can really howl This hikers' hut for well over a century. And thanks to these it's never been The summit, first climbed is marked by a golden cross, carried up here by Today, with the help of iron it's climbed, either from or from the adjacent by families, seniors, These days, escaping the tourist and having a car can be helpful. We've crossed into Austria Detailed maps show tiny roads For a car-hiker's look we're switch-backing up From the end of the road, to the Walderalm farm. It's actually a cluster of three with 70 cows amid staggering mountain views. These families have eked out with remarkably little change Hans, while well is still involved Today, it's so hot, the cows But there's still work And with the chores finished, Hans enjoys whittling His favorite subject? Cows, of course. [ Cattle lowing ] The traditional alpine farmhouse considering the technology The family lived here, The cows got the ground floor. There's about 40 cows They'd catch the body heat and that would help And the hay loft and the assurance to get the cows And on this farm, These days, family farms Here in Europe, many manage only with the help and by tapping A steady stream of hikers to reach this idyllic spot. And Hans and his family to serve a hearty lunch From up here, Filling the valley floor, it's one of the biggest cities Innsbruck was an important For five centuries, it was with all the imperial a grand church, a stately palace, and an extravagant balcony This much-admired Golden Roof for the Habsburg Emperor The roof, with over 2,000 remains the town's centerpiece. Innsbruck's historic center Looking past the crowds, it still feels like a once-grand The city's folk museum is Humble as that rural an artistic touch prevails. The plow seems One-legged milking stools Cribs were decorated to be sure Fantastical characters and even served Merchants carrying their wares would hike from village This one sold fine fabric. Intricately whittled the region's tradition While this could be upon closer look, Bible stories made most sense to locals when presented in Today, this manger scene gives in the Tirol Heading south, we cross and geographical divide, driving from the Germanic world, into the Mediterranean world -- The Brenner Pass has been since ancient Roman times. 2,000 years ago, Roman legions followed as they marched north Sections of the ancient road Deep grooves are reminders that followed this very route. Today, the Brenner Pass than ever to cross along one of the engineering From the top of or Europe's Bridge, it feels like but from the windy old road it looks like The freeway zips drivers to the Italian border How about pasta for lunch? While the Autobahn in Austria the Italian &quot;autostrada&quot; But that's nothing new here. This crossing has long been and forts. Empires from Roman times understood the strategic value This fortress, was built in the 1830s. It was one of the mightiest A huge investment by it was designed from invasions from the south. We're following a trade route that connected with cities Medieval traders were stopped by the lords strategically situated in pairs But we zoom by toll-free. And before we know it, and we're entering Italy's The Dolomites, with their offer some of the best And these mighty mountains seem to protect in the region's villages Historically, the Tirol Today, that region is divided: and part in Italy. The Italian part The region is a mix and officially bilingual. While the traditional economy today tourism is also big -- skiing in winter, hiking in summer. The Great Dolomite Road, leads to the nearly It's great for a joy ride, and famously a big challenge Making it to the summit for a triumphant group photo. -[ Speaks foreign language ] -These bold limestone pillars This is rock-climbing country -- thrilling, even for spectators. From the town of Ortisei, All over this region, the lifts depositing hikers sweat-free I love walking on a ridge. And with as many nationalities as there are the blissful world up here and happy hikers. These slopes are busy When planning, be aware that that's between seasons here many lifts, huts, and trails can be We're here in summer, Everywhere I look feels like awaiting my arrival. One thing I love about Europe: I've been coming here and there's still places The town of Kastelruth feels rather than a ski resort. That's why I feature it as the ideal home base [ Bells tolling ] The hyperactive bell tower seems of honoring local traditions. Buildings are painted celebrating Clearly, fire has long been Saint Florian, is shown all over town The town cemetery is like Entire families share Cobbled lanes lead to the welcoming town square. And for generations, with its metal cup, has invited all The fountain also back when coaching inns Here in the region even though we're in Italy, locals speak German first That's because for centuries in the Austrian Habsburg realm After World War I, South Tirol Mussolini did what he could He even gave each city This town, Kastelruth, But the region's Germanic You can see it and in its lively folk culture. [ Folk music playing ] Amateur folk bands have fun The instruments are traditional, The blue aprons come from a time needed to protect -[ Singing in foreign language ] -It's nice to think are both modern and traditional, and their traditions are clearly surviving into -[ Singing in foreign language ] -Whoo! [ All continue singing ] [ People cheering ] -[ Whistles ] [ Song ends ] [ Cheers and applause ] -Kastelruth is the gateway to the Alpe di Siusi. As automobiles are visitors approach by cable car. Landing at Compatsch, the hikers can hop a lift to the trailhead The Alpe di Siusi is at the foot and Sasso Piatto peaks. The meadow is 3 miles wide and seems to float It's dotted by farm huts surrounded by and crisscrossed ideal for equestrians, It's also just right for someone with a spectacular view. And completing this storybook the spooky mount Schlern, looks boldly into the haze As we continue we go from the dramatic Schlern to perhaps the most iconic peak the Matterhorn in Switzerland. Switzerland is small -- just Most of the country We start in Zermatt take the drop in on Appenzell, and finish riding lifts to the Jungfrau Zermatt, at the foot was essentially built It's hugely popular and hikers in the summer. With its many lifts, it's a and unforgettable viewpoints. The weather's great, to one of the most The Gornergrat cogwheel train since 1898. The trip comes with first of the town of Zermatt... then of the iconic peak that the Matterhorn. The train climbs steeply It takes us to over 10,000 feet, where we reach Across the tracks, an old hotel solidly caps Grand views stretch Stunning Matterhorn views but there's more. Monte Rosa is actually In fact, at 15,200 feet, it's the highest point And a 1,000-foot sheer drop stretches the mighty It seems start partway down my favorite Hopping off this train I'm in for a sensational Getting to these exciting spots and so far from the crowds, and I love it. There's just something the most recognizable that attracts people. It's a dangerous mountain Each year, while several about a dozen die trying. And with global warming, the permafrost that keeps it making falling rocks Surrounding Zermatt, as if to enjoy views of are dozens of lifts As is the case handy signposts what's the altitude, and how long it takes Zermatt, is a small town of 6,000 It has more hotel beds and they're often Nearly everyone earns a living from tourists, who flock here About two million visitors cars are not allowed. Electric carts weave quietly The town is a collection of over 100 modern with a well-organized for summer and winter sports. And this crowd-pleasing herd which parades has had it with selfies [ Bells ringing, goat bleats ] If you explore a bit, you can discover pockets 200 years ago, Zermatt would little more than a gathering Zermatt works hard to keep and tradition-loving locals [ Group singing -[ Yodeling ] [ Cheers and applause ] -From the town of Zermatt, takes us to the summit of a peak called Prices are steep, as the community has invested in their mountain lifts These lifts are absolutely and just experiencing them At 12,700 feet, this is the highest While the view of the Matterhorn is not the iconic the views from this On a clear day, with all their glory. The Zermatt train station as travelers invest a day to take one of the most scenic riding the rails on the Glacier Express. This journey, designed to maximize features a masterpiece The Glacier Express train line and goes through as it connects two of Zermatt and Saint Moritz. Over a quarter million ride this train each year. People kick back and just relax, enjoying big windows The scenery unfolds through the Swiss landscape. In the glaciers high above are born some of Europe's which flow from here to both the Now we're trading away some for an insight into the Swiss This is Appenzell -- cowbell country According to legend, the devil with a sack filled with houses. A sharp peak and lots of chalets To this day, the farms and and the canton of Appenzell remains one of Switzerland's The Swiss are famously the big threat was the Habsburg Empire In the Middle Ages, into small &quot;cantons,&quot; or states. In the 13th century, three of these cantons joined By 1291, they established and Switzerland was born. This union eventually grew and the country we know today. Switzerland is unique It's not in the EU, it uses its own currency. This stubborn pride -- and the resulting survival is one thing such a rewarding place to visit. [ Cowbells clacking ] You feel the strength here in the town of Appenzell. Amazingly, it wasn't until 1990 that Appenzell women This has been the capital and many of the buildings [ Bicycle bell rings ] Switzerland's independence from European high culture. Back then, it took royalty, to pay for big-time So instead of lots today travelers see on a small and personal scale. Folk museums here into Appenzell's with rooms replicating from where they to where they worked. In this 400-year-old building, and the floors are creaky Simple folk art shows and the ritual up to the high meadows and back down for the winter. This room shows life as it was who spent summers alone, These decorative cowbells when the herd would descend It was a world of wood. The woodshop is where milk pails would be fashioned soaked in water assembled watertight and then artfully carved. The woodworker's bedroom reflects the pride He earned enough to afford This wardrobe dates from 1817. Whether traveling mountainous Switzerland and you can get nearly in just a few hours. The Berner Oberland Its Lauterbrunnen Valley, which stretches south is a wonderful springboard for some of my favorite Lauterbrunnen Valley, with its vertical sides a textbook example of While the main town, sits on the valley floor, neighboring towns &quot;Lauterbrunnen&quot; means Waterfalls plummet from cliffs Staubbach Falls -- one of drops nearly 1,000 feet. The valley -- traditional farmhouses, and chorus of surrounding is a magnet for nature lovers. Towering high above are the icy Jungfrau, Monch, named for the legend of being protected from the mean ogre, or &quot;Eiger.&quot; And perched on a saddle is the Jungfraujoch station, and that's where we're going From the valley floor, takes tourists on this ear-popping journey. As we gradually climb, [ Cow moos ] Eventually, we arrive a rail junction For well over a century, this for rock climbers the foreboding Kleine Scheidegg hearty food for hikers, and rustic a reminder that tourism With the craze and with millions of people from countries now able to afford famous destinations like this Do what you can Arrive early, arrive late -- Continuing our journey to the ingenuity as we climb the railway Amazingly, our train tunnels on our climb all the way Think about it: through solid rock. It's four miles long. This train is smooth, and they did it 100 years ago. Why? To show off their engineering Halfway up, the train stops While expert rock climbers into an unforgiving world sightseers get their thrills by simply marveling [ Train rumbling ] Continuing up the tunnel, from here, the train's cogwheels You emerge at 11,000 feet -- Spectacular views stretch as far as you can see. Cradled among these giants, you understand the timeless The Jungfraujoch is like perched on a mountain ridge. From the highest viewing point, which stretches about While shrinking with it's still the longest The air is thin. People are in giddy moods. The station is a maze of shops, A tunnel is actually carved to a cavern of ice sculptures -- for visitors from lands Outside on the glacier, From here, as a snowy trail leads But for me, I'll call this good and savor the sense when climbing to The Berner Oberland Part of the fun -- of enjoying the Alps Funiculars let hikers This lift actually lets visitors a great way the staggering beauty And once again, it's fun by getting off and taking a hike. There's a special camaraderie with people who actually And within moments, you're with fellow hikers and enjoying Towns like Murren were developed to accommodate They cater to your every need. You can stroll through and towns are springboards the electric bike. While service roads may be closed e-bikes are more than welcome, and they make you look fitter Remote towns may be beyond but all are accessible One of my favorites is the The village, precariously on the edge was one of the poorest Gimmelwald works together In fact, most of the share one of two last names: My friend Olle, enjoys showing me around. This is the oldest house, And the woodwork just bleached in the sun. Originally hay up top For generations, their vegetable gardens. They still are relied on and this one comes Retaining their farmers here make ends meet only with help They supplement that by working Modern tourism has contributed Pension Gimmelwald's is filled with happy hikers enthused by the memories I've been coming and it never gets old. With the world changing I find it refreshing to know that still embrace Dairy is the traditional Collecting grass to get on these steep slopes Each family fills silos with enough to feed But we're here in the summer, enjoying a diet From their milk, some of the is still made We're joining a small tour group organized by Of the countless visitors these travelers to enjoy this intimate peek Once the milk is heated the cheesemaker, using his teeth masterfully scoops about from the bottom of the cauldron. He then plops into a circular mold. It's quickly pressed to remove as much of the liquid, [ Cheesemaker speaking As the moisture is removed a wheel of wet curds frequently brushed with brine in a shed like this one [ Alphorn blowing ] In the high country, to hear traditional music -- and up here, that means the long, The alphorn has a range But with no valves, it's limited Used throughout the Alps, this horn has played a role to call cows from pasture as a way for herdsmen to communicate with people and even as a call to prayer [ Alphorn continues blowing ] Oh, and we've got time High above this meadow, a peak called the &quot;Schilthorn&quot; And, in good Swiss fashion, a modern cable car, zips visitors In the Alps, while the valleys the peaks can be Get an early start -- the peaks are often clear in The 10,000-foot summit awaits skiers, hikers, both winter and summer. This station, which capitalizes on its role awaits with perfect for spies Meanwhile families pick out the peaks while others thrill at For me, the majesty is easiest to appreciate As always, try to make a point to be alone to savor Continuing with our we move onto France to celebrate the summit France, the biggest country has glorious Alps in the east. We start in Chamonix, We ride the lift and then cross over Then we hike a trail that circles Driving into France's Alps, a scenic valley leads toward the tallest peak in Europe. The alpine resort of Chamonix, is filled with enthusiasm Tourists and avid climbers Statues celebrate with their sights These men were the first After that triumphant summit, mountain climbing became and to this day it serves and day hikers alike. For advice on finding the helpful tourist office The staff knows and can match your abilities with the most interesting hikes -...walk from here, -We're heading for a station just across from the summit From there, we hop on a gondola over the glacier The well-organized lift handles We are here on a sunny Sunday Within minutes, sweeps us up from Chamonix to a pinnacle From the top of the lift, where we make our final ascent to a commanding perch. Before us spread the Alps. You can almost reach out At nearly 16,000 feet, Mont Blanc is the top of Europe. Up here, the air is thin. People are awestruck by And back on the floor nearly two miles below, The Aiguille du Midi station leading to various and stunning viewpoints. This is one of the highest Everything's breathtaking. At 12,000 feet, even the stairs For an easy thrill, You can stand in midair with no risk...but plenty of fear. This ice tunnel, is from where skiers From here, tourists get to see attracts climbers For your own private hop onto the petite gondola to Helbronner Point, Dangling silently we glide over the glacier. From here, it's clear Mer de Glace -- &quot;sea of ice.&quot; And below us, safely small groups enjoy the challenge We're surrounded of jagged rock needles, The Giant's Tooth, was one of the last The cable stretches three miles It's as if we're floating. And here comes Italy. Helbronner Point is the From this 11,000-foot-high the lift descends into Italy's Hikers from both countries Among countless peaks, the perky Matterhorn and you can look down on that circles Mont Blanc -- part of which But today, we're heading back Chamonix hosted the first and it still feels like Whether it's apres-ski the streets of Chamonix And with all this one of my favorite valley walks Chamonix was one of the original Until about the year 1800, or even paint mountains much. Then in the 19th century, had people all across Europe Eventually, a state-of-the-art to get the influx high into the mountains One of the first, inaugurated in 1909, transported to the edge of and it's thrilling visitors This train was built of a couple hundred mule owners who figured it would put them I'd say they were The Mer de Glace is France's four miles long. In the 1600s, the glacier actually threatening But now it's going receding -- dramatically. When we travel, we see of climate change. For me, this shrinking glacier When I first came here the Mer de Glace was hundreds From up above, it's hard to imagine that, the glacier was so much higher, nearly filling A cable car descends, taking visitors From there, the hike down gets longer each year. Disturbing markers just a short time ago. A touristic tunnel Hiking into it, in a cool, dripping world And on an ice carving to climate change, I'm meeting up author of and an expert on Europe's We'll join her for a couple days as she hikes the classic Before any serious hike it's smart to drop by the mountain guides center to review plans and be sure You can get an individual to your time frame and ability. Europe has many iconic and one of the most popular While the Mont Blanc massif offers some of Europe's this accommodating trail enjoyed by hikers It's like a huge park, part in France, part in Italy, and it's busy -Tour du Mont Blanc circumnavigates So you go around it each day about 10 miles, Each day you see a different glacier, a different -The Tour du Mont Blanc and part above the tree line The appealing thing about it is the delightful mix The people you meet come from many lands, and your days are filled We're in France for this -&quot;Bonjour.&quot; -Hikers here have You can hike as little or as but you must reserve One thing I really appreciate: to take your luggage That frees me up to hike with just the essentials And with Cassandra's help, I've chosen a route A typical day on the trail and around six hours of walking, This bridge actually dates back and for much longer than that, its river has been carving -So, one of the really about this route is that it And there was a Celtic So in addition to Romans these paths were also taking their stock -Mountain huts, called &quot;refuges,&quot; are placed, conveniently, Our first night a mountain lodge Huts are basic -- Hikers share co-ed dorms and follow Bring your own sleep sack, Personal chores Then it's time to relax. While very simple, up here the little things A refreshing beer after a day Dinner is rustic. There's no menu. And here, way up I'm happy to consider this Soup with mountain cheese, tasty sausage And to complement it all, that's the region we're in. The culture of is one of respect for nature, and an international [ Indistinct conversations ] In the huts, it's early to bed After a quick breakfast, we're onto the next leg Since each day you try to cover it's important to eat Fortunately, enjoyable combination means the trail for the needs of hikers And small shops are ideal -Okay, &quot;merci.&quot; A day's hike is punctuated by encounters like a dairy farm making cheese pretty much the way they have The farmer's focused on his work [ Farmer speaking French ] He treats us to a sample. Mmm! And we buy a nice slice Clearly, cheese is the energy Tonight we're sleeping This one's a bit more remote, but with the same hearty food, simple dormitories, The next morning, the convenience of the baggage- as bags are taken depending on each hiker's plan. As we head out on what will be I realize that I'm enjoying a brand-new an experience without a great guide Cass, what are the most people should know -You know, there are only really that you need to think about. The first one is: Be prepared So at a minimum, some great layers, a solid Number two is: Be really when you're on trail. So eat before you're hungry, and the moment that anything if it's your backpack just stop and take care of it -And finally? by all of the gear or You don't need to be a hiker. You don't need to be to enjoy this kind of travel. -Because look at my gear, and look at what shape I'm in, and I'm having a blast. -Right. It's not about exercise. This kind of thing is best So, there's a hut around stop and take a coffee. Or in the afternoon, if you had a big climb. When you find a stream, That's really -It's like you're on vacation. -It should be fun. -Cassandra's hiking But my luggage and I will be, too, I hope you've enjoyed our look where nature is wild, Thanks for joining us. Until next time, -[ Laughing ] -[ Yodeling ] -Embrace their traditions -- ...it makes me want to -Oh! -If anyone needs a new tissue -- -Nothing. Yeah, you shouldn't. You shouldn't make little --