- [Narrator] This video was Click the link below to stay safe online and get a huge discount with a 30 day money back guarantee. Trouble sleeping? Need someone to snuggle? Then why not snuggle me? The limited edition OverSimplified Plushie is available for pre-order Get it quick along with some (cheering) Look at us, boys, we've only We beat the Brits and Now to expand westward and conquer the rest of the continent. Uh, Thomas, it looks like a bunch of different people already live out west. (gasps) What? Oh, no, that means we can't expand. I hate my life. Whoa, whoa, whoa. I didn't say they were white people. (crowd cheering) At the end of the Revolutionary secured its independence the two sides met in Among various things, they discussed American territorial gains and the British granted them a generous amount of land out west. However, Benjamin Franklin appeared to have an additional fascination. Oh Canada, so voluptuous. You think we can maybe Quit oogling our territory. But look at those curves. I'd worry less about Canada's curves and more about your own curves, Benjamin. (crowd laughing) Many in America suggested that, one day, the Canadian colonies should become a part of the United States. In response, Britain should shut the hell up. Well, if Britain wasn't then the two sides had to agree on where to put their border. Easy enough for the most part. Follow some existing borders, maybe even a parallel for good measure. But then there was a question, (clock ticking) Straight line? Straight line. And so it was. The border would go from of this perfectly oval shaped lake and continue in a straight line westward until it met the Mississippi River. Perfect or was it? Well as it turned out, the lake didn't actually look and the Mississippi wasn't here, but here. So in the end, none of that made even the Don't blame the founding fathers, they were just using blame the guy who made it. But to the minds of the day, and it was finally time Oh, back to war they go. The glorious War of 1812 saw the Americans try to invade Canada and the British burn down the White House. But when all was said and done, And once again, America and Britain had to By now, both sides realized the with was a piece of hot garbage. And since America had a huge amount of land from Napoleon, they decided they would need (clock ticking) Straight line? Straight line. And so it was. To fix the problems of the they decided to go from the Northwestern most point of this lake, as had been previously agreed, down to the 49th parallel. And from there, the line up until the Rocky mountains. But beyond the Rockies, the on where it would go next the territory beyond See, throughout its early history, America as a nation had on all that juicy land out west. Ripe for invasion. I mean settlementation. America wanted to expand. Not only was it there right, some believed it was a destiny to multiply and spread like rats or disease. Okay guys, just before God definitely said this is (crowd murmuring) And who was it who spoke to God? (crowd murmuring) Well, it was one of us. There's no way we made this whole thing up to justify ruthless, collective (crowd cheers) All right. Well, in that case, let's get out there and make the world a better place just as God intended. (crowd cheering) (gunfire) (explosion) This belief in divinely destined expansion will later be given its very but America wasn't the controlling the Western territories. At the time, Canada was made collectively referred to This one over here was owned a British charter company as many beavers as possible into as many felt hats as possible And the indigenous people As a result, the British were also eager to control the land out west and secure that regions valuable resources. And in particular, the was deemed vital to the beaver business. So when it came to the question of what would happen to the the conversation went a little like this. The line should keep going straight because we're manifestly entire North American continent. No, we need this river so we Look, why don't we just draw That way we both have access to it. Well, that would be a that protects the And there's no way I'm Having come to a roadblock, both sides simply agreed that, for now, they would jointly occupied They were both free to but rest assured the Eventually somebody would get their way. Listen, yank, we can but I ain't sharing anything else. I don't want to see you I don't want to catch And I don't want to catch and selling my data to advertisers. Well then you, my friend What the. Do you like giving to your most important online accounts? Me neither. And that's why I use NordVPN. NordVPN has thousands of secure servers in over 60 countries. Allowing you to safely surf the net at the fastest speed possible. It works across all your devices, So you're protected on the go. Even six of them simultaneously. And it's super easy to use. With just a click of a button, you can head on over to South Korea and watch every single BTS With NordVPN, you no those shady websites, annoying pop-ups or undesired eyes spying And you can even unlock content that's been blocked in your It even comes with a 30 So why not go to to get a two year plan plus an additional month for free? And as always, you'll be So thank you. Now, where were we? Oh yeah. Bickering over boundaries, manifesting destiny and a And one man living here, who felt the territory should be British, was James Douglas. The Hudson's Bay Company's at Fort Vancouver. What a beautiful unspoiled I've got my spotted dick, my spice girls fan club membership, and an unrelenting that affects everyone around me. What are you looking at, Steven? Yes, truly British. What the. (noisy crowd) No! The problem for men like had already begun streaming gun slinging, howdy neighbor, by the thousands, they were pouring into in search of land to settle and farm. This however crowded up the fur trade. And eventually the very bitter Douglas and the other Hudson's Bay were ordered to relocate north But the Americans keep coming hopped in their wagons and It didn't make sense when they outnumbered the And suddenly the whole was being called into question. Newly elected president had an obvious claim to the entire region, even implying a possible war with Britain. Fiery language from U.S. senators declared that American Hudson's Bay Company in Oregon and America even gave Britain notice that it was pulling out of the The British were alarmed on the brink of war. But in the end, neither The British favored maintaining while the Americans had into a war with Mexico. So after a bit of back and forth, the British finally said, fine. You wanted a straight line there, there's your straight line. (gunshots) Yeehaw! And so the agreement was made. The border would continue but because the British insisted it would then move south through and onto the Pacific Ocean. Finally, the issue of the (beeping) Hold the phone discrepancy (beeping) Enhance. (beeping) Enhance. (beeping) Nope, too far. (screams) Perfect. Now show me the The line of boundary goes to thence southerly through but there's loads of channels. So you tell me, dear viewer, which channel is the treaty referring to? And therefore who owns these islands? Is the wording of the treaty Well, that's exactly the problem encountered by the people The British insisted that the was the Rosario Strait and therefore the islands were British. The Americans on the other hand, argued that the intended and therefore the islands were American. At times, the debate became rather heated. Even the individuals who at times didn't seem entirely sure which channel the treaty meant and representatives from begged them to make it clearer. But thousands of miles simply had more to worry about than some tiny islands Order! Order! Shut up! (crashing) All right, listen up, we The 7th Earl of Jizzingham says in the fields of Upper and put this sketch together. That, that's a poor person, Darren! Ugh, next. Lord Piddlingham says he has How has that parliamentary Oh, some islands in the Pacific could lead to a war with America? Boring! Fine. Let's take a look at that mole, George. (crowd cheering) And so, for now, the islands Were they British or were they American? I'm sure this conflict And one man who thought the was James Douglas, now the He had already once had American settlers encroach on his territory And by golly, he wasn't As far as he was concerned, those islands were not only British, but prime agricultural land. And given the chance those start pitching flags with And so he came up with a plan. If the British settled the islands first, then that would surely And so in 1853, Douglas sent an Irishman by the name of Charles Griffin, along with some Hawaiian shepherds to go set up a sheep And set up a sheep farm they did. The place was rammed with sheep. 1,369 to be exact. But within those flocks of wooly cowards could also be found a number of beautiful, prized Berkshire pigs. Oh, Porky, you look stunning. You're the greatest thing Would you, perhaps, like together tonight? Oink once for no, roll around in that cow crap if yes. Yes! I'm covered in poo and I'm But life on the island for Charles Griffin wasn't to be a perfect because unfortunately for him, the Americans also believed One day in 1854, an was sailing around the for bands of native tribesmen Aha! I've got you now you savages. Over yonder. Those are sheep, sir. Sheep you say? What are they doing here? Let's go and negotiate with them. Negotiate with sheep? Are you crazy? I'm perfectly stable you ratbag! Call me crazy again Uh, hello, good sir. We request to speak with your leader. (sheep baaing) Out of my way. Allow me to parlay with this foul beast. (baaing) Hey! Hey! Stop threatening my sheep. Your sheep? You mean to tell me that have illegally imported these I'll have you know that you, an American, are currently trespassing (baaing) The Americans felt that they on the British property, you know, because the island was American and they threatened seizure The British, meanwhile, threatened you know, because the island was British and the two sides were in a standoff. To give Charles Griffin the American trespassers, Douglas said, hey, put on this wig, boom, And in turn, Griffin went to and said, hey, I'm making you a Constable. Put on this badge. (screaming) The British then went off to arrest the U.S. customs inspector, he emerged from his tent with four pistols and a giant knife. So the Brits had to back down. Eventually, raids by Northern tribes chased the U.S. officer from the island. But the Americans weren't done yet. Officials from nearby Whatcom believed the island fell And they decided it was time once and for all. They sent one Sheriff Barnes Hey, you owe us $80 and farm stuff you got here. Go suck an egg. Oh, I see. So that's how it is, huh? That's how it's going to be, is it? That's the way in which things are, eh? That be how it will, is it? Will it be how that is, huh? That be the way in which things Get off my property! So the sheriff and other felt they were now well to seize and auction off Griffin's sheep in order to recoup lost taxes. And who would they auction these prized breeding rams Then in a pretty chaotic scene, they worked to tie the And when Charles Griffin came running to rescue his kidnapped they pulled out guns on him In all, Charles Griffin and he was furious. The British complained to who were shocked to hear at the Northwest border. And both governments told to back off. We're not trying to start a and a stupid island. But also the islands are definitely ours. Under no circumstances at For now, both governments agreed to set up yet another boundary commission to decide which channel But it often devolved The British did make one We could draw the border split the islands between us. Well, that would be a that protects the And there's no way I'm (gunshots) And in the aftermath of the sheep raid, James Douglas, still became even more cautious into his territory. Uh, Mr. Douglas, sir, it gold in the Fraser Canyon (gasps) Shut up! Keep your voice down, boy. We can't risk those glubby or our territory here will Oh no! (crowd cheering) No! The Fraser Canyon gold rush attracted a heap of Americans to the region. Some got lucky, most did not. And of those that didn't, rather than returning all the way home, many simply decided to settle in the area. And in particular, the San Juan Island were rather appealing. Believing the island around a dozen American in the late 1850s. One of them was a man named Lyman Cutler. A young man in his mid He didn't want to have to to build his home. So he said, eh, I'll just build my cabin right in the middle of I'm sure that won't make anyone mad. When he planted potato rather than building a nice he said, I'll just fence in three sides and hope all these British farm and respect my property rights. (gasps then screams) Griffin's pig was a Berkshire and Lyman's fairly pathetic fence made for a bad combination. Numerous times he had had to chase the pig away from his property. And he once angrily marched hey, British farm idiot. Keep your stupid pig out of my potatoes. It is up to you to keep (door slams) Griffin was furious with They built their homes all And besides what right did It was British territory. Lyman, on the other hand, swore the local government had assured him his land claims were legitimate. And so to him, the Look at that sick freak! In love with his pig. Isn't that just sick? Yeah! What a freak? Not like our love, Spuddy. Ours is all natural. Yep, just a man in his potato. Nothing wrong with that. But the tension between Lyman and Griffin was just about to explode. What the? (gasps) Spuddy? All right, you damn dirty pig. That's the final straw. (gunshot) Lyman shot the pig. After taking a second to calm down, he felt bad about murdering So you went to him and I kinda just killed your pig. It was eating my potatoes I just, I kinda just killed your pig. Killed your pig. Killed your pig. (bright music) (laughing) You swine! No, no the swine is the one I killed. I'm Lyman. (screaming and crying) Griffin demanded Lyman for the loss of the pig, an outrageous sum at the time. Obviously, Lyman refused. Threatening to shoot anymore animals that dared enter his property, even threatening to shoot Griffin himself. When Griffin complained to James Douglas, British officials went and Again, they insisted he Lyman claimed they and take him back to Victoria. British officials arresting an trying him under British law, And it's a controversy that American General in charge One William S Harney. This guy. General Harney had a reputation. He's the kind of guy who wasting valuable resources and creating an embarrassing He's the kind of guy who has for writing the wrong header on a report. He's the kind of guy who finds and then chases it for a mile and a half just to give it a beating. He hated superiors, hated and had been court-martialed four times for disobeying orders. Contemporaries described all matter and no mind, an arrogant humbug and a laughing stock. Like I said, General He hated the British out to earn personal glory for himself. By some accounts, he even And so in July, 1859, when he happened to visit San Juan Island, and he learned of the plight the shooting of a pig and the British threat General Harney went into scheme mode. (dramatic music) (phone ringing) Ay yo, Captain Pickett. Yes sir? Listen carefully. I need you to go pick up some flowers and bring them to my place later. I've got a plan. Here I am, sir. What's the plan? Pickett, you and I are What do you mean, sir? Okay, listen up. An American man shoots a and the British threatened to arrest him. Outrageous! But we can use it. We get the settlers there saying they need American That's when you go with your The British will find they considered theirs so offensive they won't hesitate to Then it's war. We bring in reinforcements I'll write to Washington DC letting them know what's happening, but here's the kicker, my letter will take six Before the government even telling me I'm an idiot and the island will be ours. Hell we could even invade Vancouver island or British Columbia. It's foolproof. Wow. Very impressive, sir. But I got to ask, why? Well I'll level with you, Pickett, historians still contest I'm trying to do here. It's possible I'm trying to Maybe I'm trying to play the Some have even suggested that since I'm a slave owning southerner, I may be trying to create a diversion to help the south succeed But if there's one thing that it's that I'm an idiot. I see. But hold on. What'd you tell me to bring flowers for? Because, Pickett, they're There are also historians who believe that Harney and Pickett and were not scheming masterminds, but simply hotheaded buffoons, genuinely outraged at the and trying to protect American citizens. But the fact of the very controversial and of landing American troops He set up his camp in and directed a very provocative only American laws applied on the island. It was almost like he was Or, again, maybe he was just an idiot. When a British official sent to the island to get rid of the unruly American settlers now saw that there were American troops he demanded they leave. He was obviously told to go suck an egg. When Douglas found out, he was enraged. To him, the American landing Harney sent a report back justifying his actions of British villainy, but he knew it would take and another six weeks for For now, the situation of local military and And the ball was in the British court. Will the temperamental Governor Douglas and the powerful British Navy, respond to the American Were Britain and America over the shooting of a pig? Well, if one men were to have his way, it's entirely possible they would. James Douglas had already had Americans force him out of Oregon, they had threatened his during the gold rush, now they had invaded his It was time to turn to the Royal Navy. You, Captain Hornby, go to the island and prevent any more and take this Magister with Use force if necessary, just don't do anything to start a war. Wait, you want me to use Oh, oh, I'm sorry. Is that too much to ask, princess? When Captain Hornby got to the island and saw that the American force there was even larger than expected, He sent word back to Douglas, who in response ordered even And at this point, the hey man, let's talk. They were concerned Douglas' escalation was leading them to war and they convinced him it probably wasn't a terribly good idea to just go up to an American military captain hey, Bucko, you're under arrest. Please don't shoot me. Douglas gave in. To prevent any hostilities, and told the Navy, for now, to simply keep an eye on the Americans. He did send one more Captain Pickett, now with their guns aimed said, see, Jeff, look at that. We're about to get blown to Hang on. Oh crap, Jeff, we're about Run! Pickett hastily moved his camp from its very exposed which as it happened, it It probably won't surprise you to learn, Pickett came dead last Nearby, American and British officials began showing up to ask Pickett what the heck he was even doing. Then a bunch of tourists showed up because a major war breaking was the single most exciting in any of their miserable frontier lives. One Charles Griffin was First, his pig had been shot, now, his sheep pastures by soldiers and tourists alike. He complained to Governor Douglas who was still pretty upset Douglas felt British So he decided that if American forces were allowed to be on the the British should be there too. It would be a joint military occupation. Upon hearing Douglas' new plan to land British troops on the island, Captain Hornby decided to go After informing him of the plan, Pickett replied that if they So there they were. The British had orders to land. The Americans had orders This was it, war. Over a small island in Over a pig and some potatoes. Over whether the U.S. Canada or like this. It was stupid. Hold on. This is stupid. To heck with it. I'm not landing those troops. I'm not going to be the (crowd sighing) The captain decided not and good thing he didn't the leading British Admiral showed up. Rear Admiral Baynes When he heard of everything he was stunned. But when he heard that Hornby to land troops, Baynes Whether he did or not, But I like to think that he did. The Rear Admiral canceled and instead pursued a with the Americans until he could contact the British government. The Americans not knowing the British no longer intended to land had sent reinforcements But even still, the And finally, when word informing the two governments everyone was shocked. Holy crap! Harney landed troops Man, I hope the British Buchanan. Oh crap! The British! Why are we getting on San Juan Island? Whoa, whoa, whoa! I don't know man. Nothing to do with me. But you're the President. What? Breckenridge? Am I the president? Yes, sir. And hey, we, we got a problem. It looks like the Southern and we're headed for the biggest crisis in the history of the nation. And it's your job to fix it, sir. Sir? Oh, no. Go away. Not the curtain again, Mr. President. I'm not here. Buchanan. (screams) Back in the Pacific Northwest, Harney was beginning to may not be terribly impressed So he began firing off even justifying what he had done. Tell them the British were sending bands of Indians to attack our men and that their big meanings and that they made me Wait, no that makes me sound weak. They made me cry like a big girl. Yeah, that's it. When the president received his anxiety only grew stronger. Oh crap. Hey general Scott, Leave it to me, sir. General Winfield Scott of the entire U.S. Army. Well known for his negotiation skills. He was a veteran of the During which time he had had idiocy and insubordination. And he watched his Harney Thanks to his friends in high places. It's safe to say that Scott really did not like General Harney. By now, General Scott was racked with gout and he was so big he had to be hoisted onto a ship in a basket. Nevertheless, he began the long journey to the Pacific Northwest. Okay. Everyone get over here. Will somebody please tell me I'll tell you, General. It all started on one (gasps) Spuddy? All right. You damn dirty pig. That's the final straw. Huh? What? Hey, you can't get away from me. Oh, look at that, pig. Nowhere left to run, eh? I'm gonna enjoy this. - Lyman, if you spare my life, (gunshot) (evil laughing) - So you see, General, the pig wasn't even on his Liar! He's lying to you, General. I'll tell you what really happened. What a pleasant summer's It's just me and my beloved potatoes. I'm so happy. Say, Lyman, them some Would be a shame if somebody ate them. No, not again you beast! Leave my potatoes alone. Yeah, I'm going to eat them, Lyman. I'll eat them and then Stay back! I'll shoot! Go ahead, punk. Make my day. Shoot me. Shoot me! He made me do it. He made me do it. So you're telling me, you with the strongest over the shooting of a pig. Yeah. Yeah, now he's starting to get it. Not only the pig, sir. The British then threatened to arrest this poor pure American soul. Thank you, General. Shut up. I don't care about you. Okay, I've made up my mind. You're an idiot. You're an idiot. You're an idiot. You're an idiot. You're an idiot. You guys are fine. And you two are the most mind-numbingly brain dead in all my life. And I'll see you in my office. Okay, Harney, listen. I cut a deal with the Brits, Both sides will maintain a for a joint military occupation until our two governments can Now, the only way they had agreed to that is if Pickett is removed from command. So I'm replacing him Now, Harney, listen to me. Do not under any circumstances put Pickett back on that island. Okay? I mean it, Harney. Do not order Pickett back onto the island. Understood? Yes, sir. Good. I'll see you glubbos later. Is he gone? I think so. Good. Hunt, you're fired. Pickett, you're going back on the island. All right you psychopath, I've been waiting years for this. I hate you! I've always hated you! Harney had not only ordered but his department even that it did not recognize the While everyone else had decided on peace, Harney appear to still be threatening war. Needless to say a furious Winfield Scott soon removed him from command In Harney's absence, the and the troops actually got The British attended at the American camp. While the Americans visited the British for Queen Victoria's birthday. Even Pickett became good friends with his British counterpart. War, it seemed, had been avoided. Thanks largely to the level and general Winfield Scott. Of course the islands And the question of who exactly owned them still had to be answered. That answer would have San Juan was at peace, the nation was tearing itself apart. When Civil War broke out in 1861, the issue of San Juan just Harney, despite being a southerner but was eventually removed when his loyalty to the More famously, Captain went on to become a Confederate General. Pickett's charge at the remains one of the most famous and marked a major turning point. U.S. relations with Britain The British, missing their initially looked like they may intervene on this side of the Confederacy. There was the Trent Affair, when Confederate diplomats on a British mail steamer. And then there were sold to the Confederacy that wreaked havoc on Northern commerce. When the Civil War ended, called on the British to pay reparations. And by now a long list of hot And yes on that list still the issue of who owned That issue, it was finally agreed, would be submitted to The empire of Germany would decide. With the British and Americans The American argument with a little more pizzazz, and in the end, when the they awarded the San Juan (gunshots) When an aging Douglas heard the news, he said that there was no possible way the British argument had But that was that. The British conceded and on the last British troops left the island. As the American enter the they found that the British One last up yours to Uncle Sam. By this time Charles Griffin and the Hudson's Bay Company eventually sold their sheep farm. And so there you have it. A dangerous situation that to war triggered by the shooting of a pig, but thanks to more level-headed minds and an eagerness for conflict was avoided. And the only casualty of this But how different could things have been? What if the British had What if they had landed troops? Could the two sides have Could America have invaded Canada? Could it perhaps still invade Canada? Think about it. Why not? We have the manpower. We have the arms. It's our manifest destiny. Picture a future where American Mounties wear red, white, and blue and Where Wayne Gretzky would every 4th of July in Maple syrup, the greatest American food. Banff, the greatest One United nation under the leadership of our glorious president Drake. No longer shall we tolerate our with their affordable insulin and endless comments complaining that I don't talk about Canada That's right, Canadians, watch your backs. Sleep with one eye open tonight because Biden's coming, baby. And maybe then this time, (upbeat music)