This is Pantdora, my 1,000 gallon cloud rainforest plants, fungi, and a menagerie of creatures I'm actually also working on a next vivarium later, because something major is about to The rains had come early! Yes! This meant it was time to affect our simulated Rains, I summon thee! This is the story of what happened when I vivarium, but little did I know, this cosplaying insane revelations about the animals in our adventure with some unexpected newcomers! Welcome to Season 2, Episode 6 of my Ecosystem Channel. Please SUBSCRIBE to the channel, and hit the Welcome to the AC Family! Enjoy! The past two months have been quite hostile of creatures in Pantdora had disappeared underground have dried up sacrificing its foliage to preserve arrived early this year, and to my sheer awe, air, the great awakening of Mother Nature Outside my home, something incredible was There wasn't a light around my place that These were the future queens and kings of These termite alates were waiting their whole called a nuptial flight, in order to congregate lights, in hopes to find their one true mate, Some queens and king termites had already to scramble around in search of a partner It's a truly remarkable event because every in the year to fly, and this particular wood-eating this year. But the termites weren't the only ones waiting were also a feeding frenzy for predators who've was scarce. The summer fast was finally over. All geckoes around my home were coming out buffet. A jumping spider had gotten lucky, as well. Another gecko was having a feast picking off wall, making the termites easy to spot. In the shadows of this rock pillar, was a to it. But the most conspicuous of creatures to emerge, Cane toads! The large toads hopped all around picking They had enormous appetites and would be eating But this termite nuptial flight was not only Room. Somehow despite having all my windows closed, way indoors, and were now swarming around to get in. Ok, in that case, here you go, Termites. Enjoy our Pantdoran soils! A bunch of termites alates were now inside various rainforest creatures, or perhaps pair vivarium. We already had another termite species living to have some competition. Now, some of you may be wondering, why I didn't Well, the toads are invasive and would pretty into its mouth, including all our tree frogs, But speaking of new additions and sun skinks, on my bingo card, regarding our resident sun The next morning, I spotted this. Opening the glass holding container and lifting It was another sun skink caught from my yard, about this sun skink. Let me know if you guys notice it. I placed in a roach, and he instantly went Mmmm delicious! Here, let's give him another one to welcome He happily grabbed the roach from my tweezers I was glad to see that he was not afraid of But were you able to spot why this sun skink The sides of this sun skink lacked the speckles His sides were plain, but what truly blew Why was this significant? Well, when researching these sun skinks, I orange faces during breeding season, and so our Smaug, who was pretty thicc at the neck was a male, and that our second more slender for him, was female. But when I laid eyes on this new guy, I instantly Perhaps I should have asked for Smaug's orange Smaug, staring at our new handsome Smaug, was actually a Smaug-ette! Oh man! Smaug is female?! Anyway, shell shocked by this realization, new truly manly sun skink to our rainforest, his two sun skink princesses. I couldn't wait to see him interact with interaction was not what I expected it would But before adding him in, a soft noise was that made my heart leap. Within my incubator were a series of eggs, I've been waiting with great anticipation And to my utter joy, I spotted a mass of brownish breaths of air. What is it you ask? A chick, born from my Rhode Island Red chickens I've been incubating the chicks indoors, are a big threat to them at this age. But this chick was not alone! It had a sibling. Now, I had a special plan that had to do with would finally be born, and I couldn't wait newborn chicks into their rearing quarters They were quite sleepy, but the moment I mentioned up. Chickens fall under the category of precocial their own right off the bat, unlike altricial and require parental care at birth. I had to just show the chicks with my finger the assignment and began to feed. They were just so cute! I would often place my hand over them, and just as they would under mom. They did a lot of sleeping and eating, and them with superpowers of rapid growth, and little chicks by the end of this video! But, guys, there's more! I wasn't the only new mother in town, for This here is a skinny pig, basically a guinea She is one of my rescues, that I've had because just this morning we spotted a surprise. See it? And just like our new chicks, it's not one A black skinny pig baby! Now you'll be surprised to know that newborn fur, fully able to walk, open their eyes to like rats which are born helpless, naked, They're a little nervous with handling right so they get used to human interaction. These baby skinny pigs as early as now will from mom, but just like the chicks, I have and these skinny pigs coming up! Now as for Pantdora, another discovery was The new rains had brought about some new mushrooms I hadn't seen before. Any mushroom experts out there care to guess The new rains almost overnight caused certain fern stalk, and these vines which were starting I spotted a millipede moving like a toy train These millipedes were some of the few creatures I then spotted a giant huntsman, who was either had died but I discovered was still alive, Pantdora as a baby. It was one of two adult huntsman spiders that lot of babies that were frolicking the lands. All the predators of the rainforest were quite had an abundance of prey now. The crickets were back to their normal social But the real surprise I was talking about, Noctis, the blackwater pond. As usual, the pond was full of beautiful fish, I was happy to discover the java mosses were I spotted a peculiar movement across the floor, for joy! A crab! Awesome! There were still crabs in Aqua Noctis, or I had thought the crabs I placed into this Seems like this little guy had been hiding I wondered if it too had retreated into the It was now going about its usual business around the pond. I wondered how many other crabs were still happy to see that we still had water crabs So, Smaug! I mean, Smaugette? I'm sorry, I had thought you were male, My bad! It's time to introduce you to your new King. As soon as Smaugette, saw me approaching with I placed in the rock platform. Welcome to your new home my new sun skink. I lifted the cover and he immediately ejected. As soon as he realized he was somewhere new, Using his tongue he sniffed the ground and He had to be careful in these unfamiliar territories. These were new lands, but he could definitely He then turned to crawl into the darkness I looked around and couldn't see into the a few seconds later, I saw a quick commotion Woah! What's that? I scanned the foliage, and chuckled when I peeking from the back of the vivarium. Hilarious! Smaug had chased him out, and I looked back at the entrance. "And never come back, you creep!" Wow! Seems like Smaugette had some warming up to She dashed right back into her cave, which male. A little frazzled by the encounter, he continued He began to climb the Hallelujah Tree Stump. It seems the crickets had a heads up of his from the brand new predator in town. He decided to station himself up here which He liked it here and I liked seeing him here me with what he was about to do next in the Now speaking of new forest mates, I've been that I've been wanting to build as an attachment pick your brains as to which type of biome So far, it seems the consensus is that either choices. I cover all the options in the last episode, I do see that there seems to be a split between In the polls, it seems Swamp and Cave are is winning by a lot! My issue now is that I have to assess how have not watched the last episode which covers possible animals housed in each. It matters because so many of you mentioned the last episode, and the comments all seem attachment. I decided I would ponder over our options look at more of your opinions, before letting our second giant ecosystem vivarium. As I looked up on the moss wall, I spotted now watching the strange new male who had He was cute, but Daenerys chose to lay still Suddenly, he spotted her, and decided to do sun skink. He leaped up and grabbed onto the asparagus He was now officially up in the vines. What?! I didn't know sun skinks could do this. They're ground dwelling lizards, but clearly skills up his sleeve. I wondered if Daenerys was impressed. He was now arboreal, with ghost ants running Suddenly, he began to move, but where could Don't tell me he was about to balance on I was quite nervous for him as it was a long Daenerys watched barely entertained by his He jumped at some nearby fern branches and a sun skink no more. Like a masterful Cirque du Soleil performer, route across the canopy, balancing even on vivarium. Daenerys expected him to plunge to his death After hanging there for a bit, he then went He crawled across the vines carefully, calculating I think his main objective was to get closer her out up close, but these were unfamiliar least, and then suddenly, bam! He instantly went from tree skink to spider He hung upside down like a gecko, not knowing It was then that I realized that Daenerys, She had grown bored and left. Uh-oh! Now, how was he going to get down? I bet he felt real silly right now. It was then that I decided to name this male The next day, I peeked into our chick nest, I also noticed that they were bigger and had They were ready for their first lesson, that Using a saucer, full of mashed up hard boiled my finger to teach them that the egg was ok birds to the wide expanse that was the outside Eventually they filled up their gizzards and some exploring, but not too far from mom. Side by side, the twins began to explore the Oops! Gotta clean that up. After several minutes of exploration, I placed up into a corner and slowly drifted off to These chicks would be doing a lot of sleeping be insanely fast.l, as mentioned. In terms of diet, they ate a staple of a high with lots of mealworms which I mixed into gobbling up. Have a look at them feed! It was amazing to watch the chicks instinctively and render the mealworm immobile before swallowing Watching them feed on mealworms truly made into birds. Our chicks were well on their way to a healthy It did look like one chick was beginning to that they were probably male and female, but a bit older, and we all know how accurate But, some of you may be asking, what my plans to do with the guinea pigs? Well, AC Family, I bet the answer to that On the forest floor, I spotted a pair of mating just finished a molt, and was still white I mean, you couldn't wait a bit there, buddy? Anyway, I also spotted a land planaria, a gross, but it had actually been over a month rainforest. It seems the cooler temperatures were slowly which I was actually pleased to see. But as I was scanning the forest floor and to spring forth from it, I realized that the mature and evolve, and judging from its colour, You see in nature, the soils are constantly to the ground and decays by way of soil creatures, behind various organics and the magic stuff This is why I needed our guinea pigs. You may be surprised to know that Guinea pig as it is classified as "cold" fertilizer, from guinea pigs' butts, unlike chicken and must be aged for several months before I proceeded to add the fresh guinea pig poop, floor. Those beige pellets are leftover pellets that but they'll also make great food for our I also, topped it all off with a fresh layer This great mixture would soon release new it with nitrogen and useful food for the plants. Now what did I need the chicks for if I wasn't Well, it's not exactly the chicks, I needed. I need these. Their discarded egg shells. I crumbled them up and scattered the pieces great calcium and minerals into the soils. This was key because the calcium would be prey insects, and then pass on the calcium It was amazing to know that we were allowing was our rainforest in a cool way that Nature A few days later, it seemed the extra rains, an explosion in plant life. Our vines were now officially climbing the and would soon be expanding on the network The new asparagus stalks were thicker and to add to the greenery. New ants were making a return to the forest dwarf ants, and members of the Dark Horde, As for Drake, our new male sun skink, he enjoyed frequently hunting the forest floor, and he spot of Smaugette and Daenerys. I never saw them hanging out together, and basking spot. When Drake was up there, the others were elsewhere, Drake was hanging out somewhere else, but to warm up to him, which is what happened If they do end up mating, these sun skinks forgo the egg laying stage and just give birth That would be very interesting to see and our rainforest soon. You know, I must say, it's been an honour the magnificence of Mother Nature with regards Seeing how Pantdora and all the life within has been nothing short of mind boggling. It reminded me that in life, nothing is permanent, changing with time. Whether it be times of famine or times of and I resolved to remember this fact whenever Life itself is also a beautiful cycle, and today at eleven days old! Those feet are prehistoric-looking! Now don't worry, I won't be eating these I'll be adding them to my collection of They call chicken eggs nature's multivitamin, As for the skinny pigs, they were growing comfortable with me handling them. Guinea pigs don't come from tropical climates. They originate from the cold mountains of would do well released into our rainforest, be, I did have some other mammals in mind system. Speaking of which, AC Family, after much thought, work best as our next ecosystem vivarium. After carefully looking at all your input, most feasible right now, the biome I've is... Vote in my Community Tab to affect this story! Happy Mother's Day!