It has been said that scientific progress but instead by murmurs of "huh, that's point of light on the sky whose weirdness on the largest scales. This particular "huh, that's weird" doing some stuff that no white dwarf should ever be able to do. In fact, it has multiple properties that are so extreme that it almost certainly did NOT form in the way that we thought all white dwarfs formed. This one peculiar point of faint light may change our understanding of not just white dwarfs, but This particular mystery began at the Zwicky Transient Facility in California - a telescope dedicated to watching for things that go bump in the night - astrophysical objects that vary over time. Astronomers using the ZTF looked suspicious - a bit too massive and in its rapid but periodic flickering - suggesting that it was rotating several times every minute. It got the poetic name ZTF J1901+1458 - we'll call it Zee for short. In a criminal investigation, a suspect must In a scientific investigation we should assume a thing to be typical until proven weird. Well, follow-up observations proved Zee weird beyond reasonable doubt. Observations with the Hale Telescope confirmed that it's 1) spinning way too fast to make sense. Before we get into why this is so weird, let's review what we know about white dwarfs - or at least, what we thought we knew. When all but the most massive stars end their lives, they blast off their outer layers in their their naked cores, which by now are insanely hot nuggets of nuclear ash - hyper-dense balls of mostly carbon and oxygen. These are white dwarfs, the final fate of any star less than 8 or so times the mass of the Sun. That's how we thought all white dwarfs were formed. But something is off with Zee - particularly with how fast it's spinning. Now we do expect white dwarfs to rotate. After all, stars rotate and so should their remnant cores. That spin should also increase as the core slowly collapses under its own gravitational crush due to conservation of angular momentum. But typical white dwarfs take from a few hours to a few days to rotate. But it's hard to see how any star could be rotating fast enough to produce a white dwarf that spins every 7 minutes. Such a parent star should have torn itself And so the mystery deepens. At this point, astronomers decided that the object was weird enough to bring some serious firepower to the investigation - the W. M. Keck Telescope in Hawaii, one of the largest telescopes in the world. Keck was needed to do the spectroscopy - to break the white dwarf's light up into component colours. Splitting the light this way makes it even harder to detect this already faint But it's worth it because spectroscopy can a full forensic workup. For example, it gives us spectral lines. When electrons in an atom move between orbitals, they emit or absorb light with very specific wavelengths. That tells us what kind of atoms are in the object, but also a lot more. In the case of Zee the wavelengths of the hydrogen absorption lines were shuffled all over the place in a way that suggests the presence of gigantic magnetic fields. Fields around a billion times stronger than the earth or sun's magnetic field. white dwarfs. OK, so far so weird. The next step in the measure of size. Size is hard to measure even for normal stars: most are so far away that even our highest-resolution telescope cameras see them as single points of light. But astronomers have a clever trick. If you know how much - then you can figure out how big it needs also need to know how efficiently it's shining - how much energy for every unit of surface area - but that's just a function of its from the star's color. Temperature is surprisingly easy to measure, but luminosity is less so. Luminosity determines how bright the star appears to us - but there's another factor at play there - how far away the star is. Measure the star's brightness has been dimmed by distance and you have its luminosity. Then luminosity plus temperature gives the star's size. So the only thing we're missing from this - and of all of these things distance is the hardest to measure. The most accurate way to get distances to stars is with stellar Earth causes a star to appear to move relative to more distant stars. Until recently it's only been possible to do this for the most nearby stars. But the European Space Agency's GAIA satellite changed that by measuring parallaxes for a billion stars across the Milky Way, - around 135 lightyears away. Combined with our measurements for temperature and brightness, we get a radius for Zee of 2140 kilometers, plus or minus a few hundred. And that is tiny, even by white dwarf standards. For comparison, a white dwarf the mass of this new guy is barely 25% bigger than Now, one reason that it's good to know the size of a white dwarf is that it also tells you its mass. Here we need to learn something just Zee. We normally think about objects That's true of planets and regular stars, In white dwarfs, matter is crushed so close is insane. The only thing holding the star if it got any smaller, its electrons would the same energy states. But that's forbidden by quantum mechanics - specifically, by the Pauli exclusion principle, which tells us occupy the same quantum state. In atoms, electrons are held in place by the the nucleus. And those electrons can occupy discrete energy levels, where the higher the energy, the closer the electron is to escaping the atom. Electrons are bound to the white dwarf by gravity, but they still have discrete energy levels. A forming white dwarf will collapse until the electrons are driven down to fill all of the lowest energy states. At that point it can't collapse any further because there's nowhere for the electrons to go. What happens if you add more mass to a white dwarf? First let's think about what happens when you add mass to less weird space-stuff, say a planet or a star. The matter inside is crushed closer together until there's - so the original matter contains a smaller volume. But that doesn't entirely compensate for the fact that extra matter is added to usually causes an object to increase in size. But for white dwarfs it's different - as you add mass, the white dwarf has to actually shrink in size in order to have enough pressure to resist the extra gravity. As a result, in size. So if Zee is the smallest known white dwarf it must also be the most massive. Doing a little quantum mechanics, it was found that it must weigh in at 1.32 times the Sun's mass. And that's a lot, at least for a white dwarf. We've known for some time that the absolute maximum mass for a white dwarf is 1.44 solar masses - the Chandrasekhar limit. Above that and the matter gets packed so close together that one of two things happen. If a dying star's core exceeds the Chandrasekhar or a black hole. But If you add more mass it'll explode as a type Zee is below this mass limit, so it has avoided destruction - so far. We'll come back to its final, possibly cataclysmic fate very soon. OK, let's review the evidence. We have one weird white dwarf - it's extremely massive and compact - but that's not so strange in itself. The strange part is that it's rotating field. We just don't see these extreme properties in the white dwarfs produced as stars die. But there is another mechanism that could in the universe, but that we've never seen result of a white dwarf collision. If two them to slowly spiral together because they emit gravitational radiation that saps away their orbital energy. We've seen the result when LIGO detected the gravitational waves from the last moment of those inspirals. But it should happen with white dwarfs too. If a pair of white dwarfs merge, two up to more than the Chandrasekhar limit and bad things happen that I'll come back to. Or it adds up to less and we get a bigger, much weirder white dwarf. That star would be spinning really really fast because it its spinning parent stars - it has the angular momentum from the orbits of the parent stars. This process also explains the intense magnetic fields. Magnetic fields in stars and planets are generated by dynamos - self-sustaining currents of charged particles. A collision like this could well produce the sort of turbulent motion to jump start a dynamo powerful enough to produce the observed magnetic field. OK, so we have a possible origin story for should assume typical until proven weird? dwarf formed this way, that means others probably did also. And it means that white dwarf mergers really do happen - which actually has really that there are two things that can happen when a stellar remnant exceeds the Chandrasekhar limit of 1.44 solar masses - absolute collapse for massive stellar cores or absolute explosion for accreting white dwarfs. So what happens to merging white dwarfs that exceed this limit? We don't actually know - it could go either then it may well be that many of the type white dwarfs, as originally believed. If that's true then it may actually affect scales. That's because observations of type 1a supernovae were how we first discovered the existence of dark energy, and we've If it turns out that a significant number dwarfs rather than accreting white dwarfs of dark energy are wrong. And in case you seem to be a disagreement between the supernova dark energy measurements and the measurements from the cosmic microwave background - again, covered previously. Don't get me wrong, this issue with the - there's too much independent evidence sort out anyway. OK, let's get back to Zee. We know how it might have got here, but one mystery remains: what is its fate? Will it of years? That's the usual doom of a white after all. A typical white dwarf is pretty Zee is a 1000 times denser still. That means it can support incredibly energetic electrons in its core - electrons so energetic they would turn those protons into neutrons. If reaction of so-called electron capture which is how you turn a white dwarf into a neutron star. Zee seems to be safe from that happening, millions of years, heavy isotopes - nuclei sink, or sediment, to the core. These nuclei So build up enough of that stuff in the center and the electron capture chain reaction may begin - giving us another path to supernova, and a bad end for our highly suspicious little star. So there we have it- ZTF J1901+1458 - Zee dwarf probably formed when two low mass white dwarfs spiralled into each other. It teeters on the edge of explosion, and may force us the largest scales. It's a glimmer of weirdness that tells us that the universe isn't quite what we thought it was. Perhaps a powerful clue towards a better understanding of this generally weird space time. Our Patreon supporters make it possible to your support and enthusiasm, we'd probably have sunk to space-themed As always, thanks for everything. And today's extra special thank you goes to Charlie, who's supporting us at the big bang level. Charlie, the fabric vibrations of countless white dwarfs that the help of your support we've deciphered It turns out that they sing your praises, Charlie, and extend their white dwarf blessings: may your magnetic fields stay untangled, your electrons always sub-chandrasekhar. Okay, last time we took a magnetic tour of the universe, exploring how magnetism shapes our cosmos from the scale of planets up to entire galaxies. That magnetic episode .. attracted many questions. Peter Tiuller asks whether the force that electromagnetic. Actually it's not only that. Electromagnetism is responsible for the strong bonds between atoms in a solid - so the fact that the wall doesn't fall apart is due to electromagnetism. But the reason you can't just pass through the wall is something else - it's the Pauli Exclusion principle, which into each other to occupy the same energy levels. Now we'll actually be coming back to this when we get into the spin statistic theorem. Dakronu asks whether magnetic fields have any measurable effect on the orbits of stars around the galaxy. Not directly. The galactic magnetic field is very weak compared to the magnetic fields of stars, or even planets. Stars don't respond to that field directly. However gas does respond to the galactic magnetic field - it can definitely move gas around and even trigger gas to collapse into stars. So the locations that stars formed may be influenced by magnetic fields, which in turn affects their orbits. So the answer is yes, Alexander Charlton and Brandon Munshaw ask whether magnetic field lines are really "lines" versus some sort of continuous are just the way we represent an underlying continuous field. Like Brandon's example of isotherms on a weather map or elevation contours. Field lines are continuous, and the exact choice of where to draw them is contours, they don't represent lines of lines of steepest gradient in that field. to intersect the field lines at 90 degrees. A number of you ask questions about the potential role of magnetic fields in the universe that all have the answer I just gave - can magnetic fields be used to explain dark matter or to explain dark energy? Or could magnetic fields be used to power spacecraft? So the answer is no, although magnetic fields do have important effects on scales from stars to galaxies - they're still much, much weaker than gravity. Some people also hopped on to imply that with this episode I'd validated the electric universe idea - which states on the largest scales, and gravity is either be clear - the electric universe pseudo-theory is about as valid as flat earthism - it's just dressed up a bit nicer. But I don't video - so instead I"ll direct you to the Professor Dave Explains YouTube channel for a satisfyingly scathing debunking, along with a brutal analysis of the psychology of pseudoscience conspiracy theories. I will just say this: if electromagnetism really does govern everything, why wasn't Magneto the most powerful of all mutants? He should have been able to control all gravity - not just metal stuff. Personally, that's enough evidence for me - but if you need more check out Professor Dave's episode linked below.