- Today on Mel, is a narcissist wreaking - All she did was take, take, take. - Do you know what signs to look for? That was a not a statement that made you running for the exit sign? Five major red flags you can't ignore. Get out, girl. Today on Mel. (bright music) - Five, four, three, two, one! (audience cheering) - Hi, everybody! How are you? Hi! Hi, everybody. (laughs) Hi, how are you? I'm so excited that you're here. In my online courses, bestselling books, and social media channels. I've taught millions of people and that's why I love the quote today. &quot;If they never ask how you Oh, I heard a wow. (audience laughs) There's gonna be a lot of wows today. Do you have someone in your life that's so self-absorbed, self-centered, or self-serving they never ask how you are? Maybe you're dealing with a narcissist. Or, maybe you are the narcissist (audience chuckles) Today, I'm revealing you need to know before a narcissist wreaks havoc in your life. Now, this is a serious topic, just ask Jule, Gerald, and Tasha. Watch this. - This guy thought he was He talked about himself all the time. - My ex girl thought the All she did was take, take, take, and she didn't care who she hurt. - Dating a narcissist totally and really poisoned my soul. - I was constantly being used, abused, and burned at every turn. - He was obsessed with being famous and thought everything was about him. - She looked me dead in my eye and lied and think nothing of it. - When I first met my outgoing, charismatic. Come to find out, he's really a manipulative, calculating, self-absorbed jerk. - When something didn't he got controlling and acted ugly. - I want to believe the best in people, so I gave her many chances. I kept hoping that she would - I'm not gonna lie. His temper kind of scared me. - Just thinking about him makes me angry. I realize now it was abuse. - It's overwhelming. Physically, mentally, emotionally. The damage has been done. (dramatic music) - You know, the question for And that's what we're talking about, so here are the five signs that you're dealing with a narcissist, and the first big sign is that a narcissist always needs to Now, Tasha, you have a pattern Can you walk me through the that was like this? - Right, well, he always wanted He was the center of attention, and our first date was and it started raining, unfortunately, and he took his shirt - In the rain? and just wanted to show And that just rubbed me the wrong way. I was like, okay, but I don't know. I decided to go on another date, and that's when we went to brunch, and he swore up and down and I'm like maybe they and he's like, no, it's our star power. - Star power? - Yeah, mind you, we're not famous. (audience laughing) - Well, you know, here's about a narcissist, is it drives them crazy when they are trying to and they don't get it, and you had experience - Right, we were together all day one day and I had other plans, so I just asked him to take me home, and he was not happy when I did that. He actually decided to lock the car door and try to continue and force me to continue the conversation with him, and I was like, oh no, I had to get out the car and - He locked the car door? - Yeah, then he just keep asking, are you gonna call me after? Mind you, we were just and he was already being so controlling, and I was just like, no, I can't do this. - Well, the good news is, though, is that you got out of the relationship. - Right. that I think we all which is when they see the signs, holy cow, recognize them and that's why we're talking about it. And the second sign to look out for when it comes to a narcissist, is a narcissist has zero How do you know? Well, they don't ask you any questions, they can't hear you when you're talking, and they tend to dominate by turning it back to them, and Jule, I know you can relate to this. Can you help us understand what this feels like when it happens? - Definitely, so the with this particular person, he completely monopolized and I kind of went with maybe he was nervous So, he did apologize for it, and I accepted the apology and but every other date and conversation was the same exact way. It was always about him, and when I would say anything about myself or about my life, it would be very brief and then moving on to him again. - I see Tasha shaking her head. Does this sound familiar? - Very. We were having a regular conversation, more like he was talking, and he was just going, and he's like, wait, I actually don't like and then kept talking about himself. (audience laughing) So... - And the third warning sign, narcissists have an extreme This is the person that expects to be waited on, doesn't help, never pays the bill, the kind of person that you're being used, and Gerald, you've had - Yes. I tend to gravitate towards - Uh-oh. I think that I am an empath, so I tend to give a lot, so this particular girl that I dated, she wanted to go to a concert, and so I got the tickets for the concert, I bought the dinner. You know, the whole date thing. Took her to the concert, You know, it was a friend of mine, so I got the VIP treatment. As soon as she got in She was like, abandoned me completely. It was always like one-sided. I'd always be giving, and sometimes, you can't give on empty. I used to always help, so but never clean, never do anything. Her dog came to my house for a little while, and when I was gone, the dog To her, it was just like, well, you should have put the dog in the cage, and I was like, it's your dog. You could have put the dog in the cage. - So, she's blaming you? - She blamed me. and this isn't the first time that somebody's blamed you out of kindness. is that this is a pattern and and understand it and move on, and move forward. that's why we're talking about the signs, and I want to introduce clinical psychologist which is awesome, &quot;Should &quot;Surviving a Relationship She also has a new book on the same topic, Dr. Ramani Durvasula. Are narcissists born or are they made? - They're more made than born. One would argue there's a little bit of a difficult temperament they probably come into the world with, but they're mostly made. It's considered what we It has a lot to do with early and often it's a child and under-indulged, so they got whatever they but their emotional needs weren't met. So, sort of like you're Love ya. But as soon as that child there was no parent anywhere to be found. So, that combination of, it's not like the parents were off-watch, it was more that they weren't so it's definitely something that's made. - We've talked about three of the signs and is there a particular that makes you a narcissist or you're more prone to tendencies? - There's a lot of them. That sense of entitlement, they blame other people, they cheat, they abuse other people, they manipulate other people, They're natural liars, and it's not even like but to protect themselves. Like, they don't want the what they're about, and they're very grandiose. Tasha, your story is very We're the star couple, You know, that complete unwillingness to see another human being, completely unplugged into their feelings, so they definitely have their own hype. - And is there a personality - Yeah. - Sweet, kind, good, loyal people who like to be pleasers, who like to fix things, rescuers. Like some people rescue puppies, some others rescue people, and they're definitely an Many other people would say uh-uh, I'm not doing this, but the fact is we're aren't we? - I'm going to love the beast, and the best is gonna turn into a prince. That does not happen in real life. (audience applauding) - Did you see how emphatic she just got? Absolutely, I agree with you. Next, we're revealing narcissists do all the time and why you should worry about it. We'll be right back. (audience applauding) Next. So, what does it feel like and feel like you just - It's very lonely, because what people see - And later. When is it time to end a friendship? Do you want to be friends with her? See, people come into a season, or a lifetime. I'm glad this happened. You just got a little emotional. - Yeah. (bright music) - Welcome back, I'm Mel Robbins. We're talking about narcissists that you're dealing with one. Dr. Ramani is here to help, and we're gonna talk to but first, Dr. Ramani, just how damaging can it be if you're living with a narcissist? - It's incredibly damaging. I want you to imagine and that house is sort of next to a place that's putting out toxic fumes. Odds are the next day or the next hour, you'd pack your stuff and I would put this on that level, that you're living with someone where it's constantly destabilizing. You're constantly being criticized. You're never being noticed, and you're always It actually takes an After years of this, I've worked with clients who stayed in these relationships for 40-plus years, and they are a shell of themselves. They have no idea of their of their strength, day after day, year after year, they were told that they were nothing or they were manipulated. That is no way to live. - Wow. You know, I have a couple friends that have gotten out of and they keep saying I - Absolutely. I mean, that's the universal feeling here, and it's that idea of feeling when you're like, usually, I'm good. Like, I'm at work, I I've got friends, but in this one space, so then it starts to seep Like when you get sick, you get a cold, and then before you know and everything else is going wrong. It's this seed that gets planted, and then everything else in your life starts getting destroyed. The longer you stay, - Well, and that brings us which is gaslighting. And so can you explain and where the term came from? - So, gaslighting is when you doubt a person's reality, okay? So, you say things to them that make them question their own reality. It actually comes from a 1930s play and then a movie that got us this idea where there was this guy, he lived in a house with his wife, and there were gaslights in the old times, and he would keep turning and she'd say, hey, did you He'd say, I never change and then over time, she So, they constantly shape-shift. They constantly move the goalposts. They make you doubt your reality. Gaslighting is emotional abuse. - And Tanya, you say that you recently got out of a relationship Can you tell me about what was going on? - The gaslighting is like It's like you're going crazy. Situation, came home from one night, and I smelled his shirt, and was like it doesn't it doesn't smell like soap. Is that perfume? When I questioned him, he denied it, but it was a constant I and that was always even when I'm wrong, I'm right. - Now, I understand it got you had to record conversations? - I was struggling with finding It was like, nobody's gonnna believe me, so I recorded the conversations. - I can see that this is still... So, you know, the thing was when you talked about how Doctor, where you feel like and then you go back into the home, and you're like, what is happening? Is that how you felt? - Oh, yeah. It's very lonely. - And what's the effect, on your life right now? - Self-doubt. - Well, with your help, we've that narcissists use and I gonna read them, and and I want you to kind of let me know if this sounds familiar. I was just joking. You're imagining things. You're upset over nothing. I never said that. You're so sensitive. - [Tanya] Always insecure. - Yeah, picking, picking, picking. What's the difference, Doctor, between being a narcissist - There's a lot of overlap. I would say all narcissists are toxic. That goes without saying. I think there are some people out there who are toxic because maybe they hold opinions you don't like, but when it comes down to brass tacks, they're there for you. They would never pull They would never be manipulative, so they're not dark in that way, but they're kind of jerks, but at the core of it, they're not lacking those things that make a good person a good person. But by and large, when 99% of the time, it really I've pretty rarely seen that sort of good-natured toxic person, so... (audience laughs) - I mean, you do a show like this and you start researching it, and you go, oh my God, I'm a narcissist! Or I'm with a narcissist, so if you have a tendency that's different than being somebody that's at the other end of the spectrum, like if you have a tendency that's a sign that I mean, I'm like sitting here, give me a lifeline, dear God. - Yeah, so here's the thing. I get emails every day from people who say I'm a narcissist, this isn't cool. I'll be honest with you, I I just don't care. Really, I do prefer putting me first, but I am not capable of getting So, something's not right here. Someday I want normal stuff. I want a partner, I want kids. I've worked with those people clinically. I'll be honest with you. If this is healthy and I'll get 'em to here. Still ain't here. I mean, there's really at least in terms of relationships. Can I get 'em so they'll show up on time and send a thank-you card? Sure, we can get 'em there. Is that enough? Is it enough for you that but still gaslights? Is it enough for you-- - And so I think that's is that these folks'll even It's like flexing a muscle and so it's a challenge for them, too. And they are deeply insecure. Remember, narcissists are It's a heck of a way to It's why they brag so much. When someone comes up to you and starts bragging about themselves, why would a person who's secure do that? If I know I know what I know, I don't need to tell you about it. (audience applauding) - We do have one more because when we come back, the number-one sign a narcissist is wreaking havoc in your life, and it will shake you, but don't worry, I've got the tip to save your sanity. We'll be right back. (audience applauding) Up next... What do you do if it's family? - You gotta stop being shocked. When your drunk aunt shows up to Thanksgiving 30 years drunk, why are you shocked on the 31st year when girlfriend shows up drunk? - [Mel] And later, do you - Well, I'm a Libra, so we're - I'm a Libra. I am not indecisive. (bright music) Welcome back. Earlier in the show, &quot;If they never ask how you Now, we've been counting you're dealing with a narcissist, and the last is the most important sign. A narcissist has a So, Dr. Ramani, can you describe empathy and why narcissists lack it? - So, empathy is a capacity and a desire to understand the to take note of them, But it also requires a and be aware of how they So, not only do I care I'm aware how I'm impacting you because I can look inwards. So, it's almost like a two-way street. - And why is not having that so dangerous? - I mean, think about what it it's like walking up to a mirror. - Okay. - And you look in it and you so when I look at you, you're nodding, you're making you're smiling, you're frowning. You're hearing me. Our brains are actually wired for empathy. There's neurons in our brain that are the section of our brain that's really designed to We need this as people. For whatever reason, this did not fully and well develop in people who are narcissistic or who have those kinds of traits, and so they don't do it, and it makes you inefficient. If I stop to worry about oh, is Mel okay? That's gonna slow me down So, you can get it if you're Empathy starts feeling We don't value it in our society. - Because of the lack of empathy, how do you deal with a narcissist? 'Cause when you did that okay, if somebody comes into my office and they say they're a narcissist and they want to work on it, I can kind of get 'em here, that's scary. And so, if you're dealing what do you do? - I say if you know, once it's pretty clear you're don't personalize it. This is about them. This is them; this is their stuff. But the tendency is, well, if they're not showing me empathy, maybe there's something wrong with me. - Well, especially if narcissists that are givers, like your tendency is I'm a people-pleaser, What if it's a family member? Because, you know, I think about the fact that I have a family member. I can spend two years, ask tons of questions about your life, your business, your kids, Not one question back, and then of course, being the person I am, I'm like, should I even be concerned about that? I mean, you know, does if I'm mad that they're What do you do if it's family? - If it's family, I mean, it's very real, because you feel like I can't divorce my mom - Mom, we're not talking about you. - No, no, I'm lucky I don't or it's a sibling or something like that. You may even feel like I'm but I want to see Mom and Mom wants all of us together, right? So, it's a package deal. A lot of this comes down to setting really realistic expectations. Once your expectations are realistic, then you know, Mel, when you that person's only gonna That's it. And so you're prepared for that. It's almost like watching a movie. Movie's not gonna talk back at you, so bring some popcorn to the conversation and just listen to what they're saying? It's the them show. - You know what actually is that I think when you don't that you take it personally. Or you become really judgey. - Yes. to explain it, that this is formed in childhood because somebody didn't get and so in their development it allows me to bring my and I can look at the them I've got my popcorn, and I'm sad for them, because they don't even know. Some of them, let's face it, the word I want to say, dangerous and destructive but there're probably - They have no clue, and several people were talking They were talking about I You gotta remember, being it takes energy. You gotta stopped being shocked. You know, like, when your drunk aunt shows up to Thanksgiving 30 years drunk, why are you shocked on the 31st year when girlfriend shows up drunk? Like, it's the same thing. - That's absolutely true, and it sounds like the only you leave if it's a relationship-- - If you can. you get the popcorn out, and you're not surprised. - Yeah, but you can't be surprised. You gotta keep it real. You gotta engage in radical acceptance. This is the situation, and this could even be a person who's married in this circumstance. They can't leave for I know many people who with narcissists, but they try to figure the workarounds and maintain those expectations. - Get out, girl. Or guy! That's what I'm saying. All right, Dr. Ramani, and shedding light on this topic. You have to come back when America needs your work. When we come back, I have a and it starts with one of a sticky note. Stay with us, we'll be right back. (audience cheering) Next, when is it time to end a friendship? Do you want to be friends with her? What hit you about this note to self? - I shouldn't mirror the - [Mel] And later, do you - So, I feel like I'm Like, I think I should just - I have a coin right here. How nervous are you? - Very. on a coin here. (bright music) - Welcome back. I'm Mel Robbins and I love a sticky note, because they're the cheapest and if you use 'em correctly, they're also a proven and a powerful visual reminder, and I want to help you with something I call Note to Self. So, I'm here with Aurora, and Aurora... (audience applauding) - I'm great. Thanks for being here. So, what's got you stuck? - Mel, I gotta tell you. I have this dear friend of mine. We were very close for a long time. We had this toxic, toxic falling-out, and after eight months giving me the silent she actually tried to And I was wondering, because it was such a toxic relationship, should I even bother opening it up again? - Great, okay, so, good question. Let me just make sure I understand. So, you had a really good friend. You had a toxic falling-out. - Definitely. - And now on reflection, you also realize the - Definitely. And after the falling-out, - Absolutely. Dead cold. how did she reach out to you? - Via text message, and - What was the text Do you remember how she did? - Well, actually, it was I love pencils, so she said, hey, I saw these new pencils online. I thought you might like them. So, it wasn't necessarily like, hey, I want to reconnect with you. I guess that was her way of doing it. - Yeah, so sort of what hello, are you there? (audience laughs) Absolutely. Absolutely. - Okay. Do you want to be friends with her? - I think deep down, all the toxicity, I don't think that I want that in my life, because I took reins in over my own life. I did the mindset reset and everything, and I said, hey, part was based on this falling out, so once I let go of that part of my life, then I went on to grow, and that's why I ask myself Is this relationship necessary? - Terrific, okay, so, I love that you took a toxic relationship and you used it to work on yourself, and now that this person's coming back, you're realizing you've See, people come into a season, or a lifetime, and she came into your To teach you something. Now, here's, though, your note to self. What do I do now that she's reached out after eight months of silence? Here's your note to self, and this goes for everything in life. Don't meet silence with silence. (audience claps) So, what I want you to do, right? You just said wow, so what hit - I shouldn't mirror the (audience claps) - Yeah, what just happened? You just got a little emotional. - Yeah, it's a learning but I don't want to reflect that toxicity. - Fabulous, so here's what Here's your note to self. This is for everything in life. You raise your voice to raise yourself up, and so you're gonna not text her back. You're gonna pick up the phone. - [Aurora] Ooh. - Ooh. - And you're gonna call her, and you're just gonna explain how the eight months of silence hurt, how you've learned based on the toxicity, and maybe she'll learn something too, but you don't have to be friends. (audience applauds) - Thank you, Mel. - You're welcome, You're welcome. thank you so much. - All right, and we have May. May's looking for guidance. Hi, May, how are you? - Hi, I'm good, how are you? - Why don't you tell me what's going on? What's got you stuck? - So, I just most recently and I blog on social media. I have my own Instagram and - Fantastic. - But I have a lot of family pressure to go back to a nine-to-five, and it's like crumbling down a little, and I'm feeling the and so, I don't know, I'm kind of stuck. I don't know what to do. Should I be somewhat of a pleaser? Should I just stick to what I'm doing? Because I'm very happy right now. - Well. You just gave me the answer, 'cause you said you're So, are your parents and family members that are criticizing and paying all your bills, too? - No. This is easy. (audience laughs) (May laughs) Your life, your happiness, is your responsibility. (audience applauds) And it's also your choice. Period, and so don't See, a lot of people that are judging you haven't grown up in the world You don't even understand doing social media marketing, right? And so they don't know how to And so if you're paying for your bills and if you're happy doing It's your choice. And what I would make sure is I would make sure you communicate more about how happy you are. - [May] You got it. - You're awesome. Congratulations on your new business. Keep goin'. All right, up next, if you're constantly don't go anywhere, because I've got a simple solution to tackle uncertainty for good. We'll be right back. (audience applauding) Still to come. I have a coin, and so head Tails, you're going to Breathe. - Here we go. I haven't flipped, oh (bleep). (audience laughs) (bright music) Welcome back, I'm Mel Robbins. Now, earlier in the show, we explained the five and one of the effects that happens if you spend too long with one is you begin to second-guess everything and you get stuck in a That's why this quote hits home. &quot;I used to think I was indecisive, &quot;but now I'm not too sure.&quot; (audience laughs) Maybe you feel this is driving you bananas because they can't ever I have somebody in my life like this. Yes, Sawyer, I'm talking to you. That's our oldest daughter. This behavior has a name. I like to call it the indecision loop. What's that? It's a nonstop cycle of uncertainty that makes you question your decisions and constantly turn to and this awesome mother and Meet Jennifer and her mom Lydia. (audience applauding) - Hello. - Hello, so, Jennifer, what - Well, I'm Libra, so we're - I'm a Libra. I am not indecisive. We are known to be indecisive? - I think I'm just programmed that way. I mean, even today, like, it took maybe like three and that was pretty good, just even to decide to come - So, you just go back and - Just always weighing out the options. - So, walk me through your day. What are the things that - Just even like what I'm gonna eat, how I'm gonna wear my makeup. I'm just very, it's almost okay, so, would that look good? Oh, no, that's not gonna look right. So, I'm gonna kinda - And so how does the - Well, I'm always in my head So, I feel like I'm Like, you know, I think commit to a decision. I was also in a really toxic relationship. Earlier in the show, you being in a relationship with a narcissist. I definitely was in a and that totally affected my decisions, and even today now. - So, it made it even worse. - Totally. - Totally. about the fact that when that's constantly questioning - Question yourself. - Got you, so Lydia, as the - Oh my God, she drives me out of my mind. She's like should I wear this? She just can't make up her mind sometimes. And I'm a Virgo? So I am very like, I know what I want, and she's like back and - I know this wasn't about horoscopes, so this is about the indecision - She can't make up her mind. - What's a moment that you can remember where you literally were just like you gotta give me a break? - Probably her 2-1/2-year that wasn't good for her and she broke up about Going back and forth and back. She's an empath, so she and you can't. He's not gonna change. We gave her advice. She listens, but she doesn't-- that your brother or her - Yeah, her instincts stink, so hashtag instink, instead You know, she always mostly with men, you know. She thinks that she She sees red flags, but We have to wave it in - What do you think about this? - I think my grandma said That's what she said. Yeah, it was that bad. - Wow, and you didn't listen - Yeah, because I wanted to fix him. I was like, well, you should You should, like, let's pray together. Let's go to temple, because I'm Jewish, and he's like, I'm God. How can I go to temple? - Wait, what? - Yeah. - And that was not a statement that made you running for the exit sign? - Exactly. I ran to Israel. - So, you know you recently went to your 85-year-old - Yes, I love my grandmother. She's only been with My grandfather passed old-school when it comes to so she doesn't understand why I can't find the love that she had. - 'Kay, and what advice did she give you? - Find somebody that makes you happy, somebody that's nice, and someone who loves you inside and out for just who you are regardless of if you have, you know, your or if you're wearing makeup, just somebody that loves you for you. - That's great advice. Did you make a decision about the guy? And so what's the decision? - So, I actually, I went on and I ended up going to Israel, and when I got to Israel, the app, and I broke up with him. - Good for you. - And he said, &quot;Did you find someone?&quot; (audience applauds) He's like, &quot;Did you find someone?&quot; And I said, yeah, I found myself. - Oh, that's a great answer. It's a great answer. You know, the thing though is, and this is what we gotta talk about, 'cause it's a fun topic, but there's something deeper going on which is the loop part. When you keep seeking what happens is your because you're not getting the decision that you're seeking validated, and so it's so important that and I know that it expands way and there's a really big question that you are grappling with so that when we come back, I'm gonna help Jennifer and actually make a decision, so stay with us. (bright music) (bright music) We're back and talking about something I call the indecision loop. That's where you get stuck and we need to break Jennifer And guess what, there's I understand Jennifer is struggling with, so much so she's now asking So, walk me through the latest story about who you are asking for advice. What is the decision, first of all? - So, the decision right now and keep pursuing my dreams or if I should stay here in New York and try and make it happen and try and chase my dreams here. - Okay, and so where did you go recently? - Recently, I was is Sephora I was picking the brain like, how do you like New York? Do you have a daughter? Oh, my daughter loves it. I was in the bagel store. I asked this Orthodox woman She loves it. So, I'm like, Uncle D, should He wants me to stay. - Around and around. She's like, maybe we I'm like, yay, throw me off some more. - Well, honestly, the worst - [Jennifer] Right. - Because you stay stuck, spinning, and the doubt grows, and the doubt grows. So, I have a very simple trick. Because the thing about indecision is you actually know the answer you want, and I can prove it to you. You're just stuck in the loop. And so I have a coin right here. (audience laughing) It's somewhere in my pocket. My pants are so tight I can't Need more stretch in these jeans. Okay. And so head is you're going back to L.A. - Okay, heading back to L.A., okay. - Yeah, tails you're going to I don't know if I'm even (all laugh) And I'm gonna flip it. - [Jennifer] Okay. - And whatever it is is How nervous are you? - Very. - I mean... I mean, we're relying on a coin here. (audience laughing) Well, I mean, this may give better advice than the person at the Okay, you ready? So, head you're going Okay, are you starting to Seriously, okay, breathe. Here we go. Let's see if I, I haven't (audience laughs) No, no, no, I gotta flip it for real. I gotta flip it for real. So worried about flipping this. I've not flipped a coin in like a decade. Okay. Now. - Now, the moment of truth. What do you want it to be? What are you hoping it is? 'Cause I'm gonna tell you, you had a I hope it's... There was a moment in there. What was it? - New York. I'm hoping - Okay, so I'm not even You just made your decision. (audience applauds) You see, the truth is, you know, and I'm on a mission to to honor the knowing inside you. The indecision has become a habit. I want you to practice a new skill. I want you instead of I want you to tune in. (audience applauding) - That's huge. - And you can still go to people, but tell them this is Instead of asking, tell, because you've got to learn to listen to what's inside and honor it, okay? - I love that. - All right, excellent. And for you at home, What was it? Can you see it? I got it, we got it. Okay. (audience applauding) I'm never gonna tell. 'Cause she made the decision. We'll be right back. (audience cheering) (audience cheering) Well, it's the last segment of the show. We call it The Goodbye, and but you can always find So, guess who's making good news? An iconic figure that's not I'm talkin' Barbie. She's 60 this year, and as Mattel's just expanded to include famed civil and the first and youngest American woman to travel to space, Sally Ride. These two fierce fabulous females are now offered alongside Amelia Earhart, Frida Kahlo, and NASA Didn't you love &quot;Hidden Figures&quot;? Now that's some major girl power. Go Barbie, yes! (audience cheering) And finally, in case nobody let me be the one to tell and your ability to change and as you learned on today's show, I believe in your ability and have the courage to leave them. And that's why I'm here, cheering for you five days a week, and reminding you that you got this. I'll see you next time. (audience cheering) - Thank you! (audience cheering) (dramatic jingle)