hello. This time, Im going to build the unlaunched German aircraft carrier Graf Zeppelin. The kit will use Trumpeter, and the separately sold etching will use the Five Star model set. Since the ship has a lot of windows, I purchased the window etchings separately and attach them. After 6 hours of work, all of the window etchings were applied. When coloring it later, it will see a big difference between doing it and not doing it. Remove the parts from the etching set and attach them one by one. It is much thinner than the parts in the kit, which increases precision. Arrange the parts for painting. The supports under the deck are also to be replaced by etching. You might think it won't be visible when it's covered, but it's quite visible when viewed from the side. Spray the deck color first. The color is appropriately mixed with a German gray base. I decided to paint the camouflage because I thought it would be monotonous if I painted it in a single color. I think the camouflage in the color guide looks cool, so I'll follow it. The camouflage pattern takes twice as long as more colors are added. The British ship's camouflage, which is famous for its complicated camouflage, is the most troublesome. Colors are overlapped several times to create a dignified atmosphere. There is also a wooden deck in the etching set. Glue coating is applied to the sheet, but since the wooden deck may float over time, apply it again using instant glue. I played the game Navy Field a lot when I was young, and I remember thinking the German aircraft carrier was really cool. But I did the US ship tech. I still play World of Warships occasionally, but it's not as fun as Navy Field. Even now that I think about it, I think it's a really well-made game. These etched parts are difficult to attach because the glue area is so small. There are a lot of NG every time I take a video. And next working on the Hakenkreuz pattern, one of the highlights of this aircraft carrier. Paint the base using acrylic paint. I applied a white decal, but the red color on the base came up, so I repainted it over with white again. Let's weathering the deck with an airbrush. The point is to paint the area where the plane lands darkly. The edges of the deck are a light sand color, giving the wood a worn look. Also add etching to the jack stays on the chimney. The etching was thin so I had a hard time attaching it. For something like this, you need to fix it in one or two places and then attach the rest after it is in place. Ha... the etching is too thin. It's hard, but step by step. The bridge camouflage is also masked to match the angle of the ship's camouflage. The process of adjusting the angle is a long and cumbersome task. I don't know why, but German warships have wooden decks all the way to the superstructure. I think this is also the charm of German warship. These small parts are finished with brush. There is a large safety net installed. These parts are very effective compared to the working time. Fun weathering time. Because there are many windows, the washing effect can be maximized. I use oil paints when doing weathering. The unique blending effect of oil paint makes the model realistic. Looking at it, I wonder if this is a passenger ship or a warship because of the number of windows. Instead, the ventilation seems to be really good. Since there aren't many structures, it looks plain. Let's exaggerate the weathering a bit. I should have done the weld line expression before coloring it, but I didn't because it was too bothersome. Even now, draw it with a brush and pretend it exists. Just as you apply shading to your chin or nose when applying makeup, if you do the same to the area where the shp line passes, you will see a clearer line. Preparing to build an airplane. Since this is an unfinished ship anyway, I will add airplanes however I want. Airplanes that will become points include ME262, DO335, and Foke wolf. These planes were purchased separately because they were in PITROAD kit German airplane set. All planes were completed over 4 days. It feels like the jet won't be able to take off, but since it has a catapult, I'll assume it can. But I don't know about landing... It would be a shame to put only one ship on the sea base, so I'll make another destroyer. When passing next to a huge ship, big waves rise, causing the small ship to bounce around loudly. Let's use an ultrasonic cutter to remove all but the hull visible on the water surface. This kit does not have dedicated etching, decorate the ship with any extra etching. This ship is small so it easy to draw a camouflage pattern with a brush. Let's paint it carefully. Let me add an interesting point here as well. The setup is that the V1 rocket was launched on a destroyer for testing purposes. The crane parts were also arranged to make them somewhat convincing. Normally, I would have paid a lot of attention to historical research when making it, but with this project, I don't have to worry about that, so I feel at ease. I will make the sea the same way as I usually do. Lastly, raise the destroyer and add more waves to finish.