(jazz guitar music) - Using chromaticism has been a part of the jazz tradition since bebop. For many people a big part especially a bop melody, is the use of the chromatic passing notes. In this video I'm gonna examples of chromatic enclosures. I'm also gonna go over some examples that are gonna show you how easy it is, that if you know all your basic arpeggios, you can use these chromatic enclosures to get your lines to sound a lot more jazzy. All the examples that I'm are in the key of C, so they're just a II V I in the key of C. I'm gonna use the enclosures and demonstrating in the Then I'm going to use some for each of the chords. The first one is actually that I use really a lot. And that's this one. Here I'm starting a half with the chromatically note below it. Then I'm skipping up to a whole step above, going down chromatically towards it, then down under again and The second one sounds like this. So the idea here is that we start a whole step below and then we move up towards the G but then instead of going to the G we go up a whole step above. So up to the A and then chromatically down. The third example sounds like this. Here I'm slow skipping around first so we are starting fairly far away. I'm starting a whole step above, going a whole step under, and then I'm moving up chromatically. Then the other side chromatically also. Then resolving. The next one sounds like this. This is almost reverse I'm starting a whole step below. Then skipping up to a whole step above. Then I'm going down chromatically. Then under, and then resolving. Then we have the last one. Here I'm starting a whole step above. Then moving down to a whole step below. Then chromatically up to resolve. The way you're gonna use this in a line is that you're gonna take a core tone that you decided in advance. This is the note I want to target. Then you put the enclosure in front of it. This means that you have a the sound of the chord. You're gonna be starting with the enclosure and won't really appear until Or you're using it at the end of the bar and then you're targeting a Both work really well the chromatic enclosure driving towards the note In this first example, I'm using the first I'm simply just starting with it. We're essentially delaying onto the third beat. Because that's where we have the F which is the note that we're targeting. That's the enclosure then it resolves to the F. Then I'm skipping down from the F to the fifth to A. Then back up. Then on the G7 I'm again It's not one that I actually but it's also a very common one. I'm starting on the fourth here. Then I'm using three I'm delaying the sound of Then I'm running down what is essentially a Then resolving to the third of C. Then over an E minor pentatonic scale. In this line I'm starting D minor pattern which is So D, E, F, A. Then I'm using the chromatic to target the fifth of G7. That means that in the D minor line I'm already deciding I want to hit the D on the one in the G7. I'm doing that with this enclosure. Then from there I go to the Then a few chord notes, up to the flat nine. Then I'm just continuing Then resolving that on which is E. Then as a show of tack, I'm just going chromatically which is from the nine to In this example, I'm starting off with the enclosure and we're again targeting because that's a very I'm starting a whole step above, a whole step below. Then chromatically up and then the chromatically Then down to the third. Then from here it's just a scale run. Then I'm again using a the fifth of G. I'm doing that with using the in the first example. Once I'm here I'm just running G7 flat nine will have and that's this arpeggio inversion. Then resolving that to the fifth of C and then just adding these In this example I'm using another idea that's also very common That is I'm using a leading I start on the one and and then I want to play but I start with a C Then I'm playing the as an eight note triplet. That means that that's really sort of here on the third beat. From here I start the chromatic enclosure. The idea here is of course just to make an enclosure that's Then that's the one I'm using so whole step below, whole step above, half step above and then half step below, and then resolving. Then once I'm on G7 just a small scale run. Then another enclosure. This one I have actually It's still just using and then from above, and then resolves to G, And then this small tail Something I didn't mention I've written out all the enclosures as just played on one string, but most of the time you can also experiment with using several strings like I'm doing here. It's maybe a little bit Also it sometimes will allow pull-off ideas that will Maybe that's something I can But I think it's quite not only the way I'm playing but also look for two string solutions for playing these enclosures. In this final example, I'm again targeting the I'm starting a whole step above, going down chromatically. Then a whole step below, moving up and then resolving. Then really to drive I'm just playing the triad. That leads us really nicely with this arpeggio. Then I'm using the D in a chromatic enclosure Then I'm tacking the phrase with this short pentatonic fragment. That was five examples of and also some examples of how What you can probably is that I'm really trying to in the sense that I'm the third and the fifth The reason why I'm doing and because then you what is going on. Of course you can also start and alterations and extensions It may be a little bit so I thought it was better just to keep it sort of lower in the chord. If you want to download that I went over in this video then you can go to the article on my blog. There's a pdf download of all the examples of the lines and the enclosures. While you're there you can of course also subscribe to my newsletter. If you do so you will receive an e-book with 15 two, five, one licks If you have any questions for lessons then feel free to or connect with me on social media. I'm on Facebook, Twitter, This lesson is actually coming out of a question that I got a lesson or a video on enclosures. Please do feel free if it's always nice to hear what you guys want to hear videos on and maybe something I can actually get into so then we can get videos like this one. If you want to keep me and you want to support me in that then check out my patreon page. I have a small patreon community right now that is really helping me and finding the money to keep I'm really grateful for that. If you think that you might you can do that already from one dollar per weekly Youtube lesson. Check out my patreon page. That's the link in the description. That's about it for this week. Thank you for watching