Subject A dash 34, neonatal intelligence battery. Trial 17, hour 4, let's just get on with this. Ok, solve for... solve for X. Looking for more... numbers. We'll just, I'm gonna, we'll get back to that Ok, I'm just going to start my watch. [bang bang bang] [banging and baby noises] [banging] Oh, well if that's how you're gonna play then What is the relationship between these two [baby noises] And he's eating it. You can't cheat. Marks off for that. Ok this... ahhhhh. Can you spell... Can you spell pituit- That is incorrect. Hey Smart People, Joe here. The first thing a baby giraffe experiences down to the ground. But within an hour, it's standing, walking, And a blue whale calf, after nearly a year moments after being born. Human babies on the other hand? We're born unable to move or eat on our our world, and we leak. Everywhere. If humans are so smart, why are our babies Human babies begin life so undeveloped, that months of life as the fourth trimester. Compared to other animals, we lie on the "altricial" Compare that with, say, a baby cow, a precocial enough that they can stand and run just moments Tiny humans require a ton of parental care Our parents not only grow us for 9 months us from dying, and teach us how to provide days even over 30 isn't unheard of. It's actually totally normal. &lt;far away talking&gt; Ma! I'm shooting a video down here! Gah! Have to start over, edit this. That's because, well, our brains come out When we're born our brain is around 30% That's the smallest of all of our primate Why does our smart species have such small-brained For a long time, scientists' best answer Basically, our brains come out as big as they The obstetric dilemma goes like this: if our fit out the birth canal. And if female pelvises were any wider, they which might not affect your life that much, to become dinner... which means no babies, So here, natural selection found a compromise: and run, and babies are born earlier so their It's a pretty logical idea. But it doesn't hold water. Male and female bodies do have significant that wider or roomier pelvises don't make less efficient. And, some women already have pelvic openings Not every woman does, but if there was strong pelvises, they'd have become more common. So pelvis size isn't why our babies come The real answer might have more to do with The bigger a developing baby gets, the more I mean, women grow a completely new organ, being, inside their bodies, and that takes It might be that mom's ability to provide when baby is born. Humans and all other animals have what's It's how much energy we burn when we're A Tour de France cyclist at peak human performance metabolism. But most of us normal humans? We max out at around two times our basal rate. We just can't run our biological engines Like overclocking a CPU, there's just a can create. For the last third of pregnancy, and even twice as much energy as before baby. Nine months happens to be right about the energy than mom can provide, so it's born. It's called the EGG hypothesis, or "Energetics But I like egg. But even energy and metabolism might not be It could be that how helpless our babies are on what happens after they are born. How self-sufficient an animal's young are If they have to run from predators, if their egg had enough nutrients to hatch big. But having helpless babies, and helping them parents to get smarter too. It's a pretty cool theory. It works like this: When we look at human ancestors, it's clear larger brains, because they tended to be smarter. But human babies' brains are already born energy thing, so the only way to make a bigger growing after you're born. That requires longer parental care, which time selects for parents with bigger brains. It's a feedback loop. The more intelligent the parents, the better and the bigger the baby's brain can eventually Research tells us that modern human brains 25, which means I have been past my peak for parents caring for their children for longer brains get to grow before they're done. More intelligence probably made early human helpless young even easier, which would start and more social over time. These aren't the kinds of things that you'd They'd evolve across hundreds of generations. There are definitely other reasons that our Making tools and hunting animals? That helped a lot. Harnessing fire and cooking food to get more But ask any parent: It is not easy to raise two like humans do. It takes our unique intelligence, and our I mean, you give a human baby to a group of In the end, like all interesting and complex our babies' relative lack thereof can't It's a mix of many reasons. Having a baby is not an easy thing to do. But the very fact that humans are so good and each other as deeply and for as long as special species indeed. Stay curious. Thanks for watching this video guys, I hope It made me think. You know what else takes a lot of nurturing A YouTube channel! I want to thank everyone who supports the Head on over to our Patreon page, you can opportunities to chat and hang out with me, even get to vote on future episode topics. Just check out the link down in the description video. And one more thing! You should check out &quot;Antarctic Extremes&quot;, Studios. This is a journey to Earth's most remote laboratory: head to head. Hosts Caitlin Saks and Arlo Perez are revealing hilarious, sometimes gross. But always thrilling and very cold. Find Antarctic Extremes on PBS Terra, which Check out the episode in the description below A train leaves Denver traveling 40 miles... Draw a picture. That is inappropriate sir. Given the following distribution of probabilities, You've been great. It's fine. You know crows can solve this one. No offense or anything. You 're cuter than a crow. What is the best bird? Name a bird. Name an animal. Who are you? This is just a simple filming release. Just allows us to use this, just make your Ok. And thank you! That's great. We look forward to working with you again! There's cookies in the lobby!